Economy:
   FDIC Testing
   Cheaper Ways
   To Save Banks
   ---
   Chairman Taylor Seeks Halt
   In the Rapid Liquidation
   Of Loans Not in Default
   ----
   By Kenneth H. Bacon
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The goal of the new effort is to keep performing loans --
those on which borrowers are making payments -- in banks for
as long as possible, rather than quickly terminating many of
them as in the past. "Liquidating performing assets runs our
costs up unnecessarily and damages the local economy pretty
badly," says FDIC Chairman William Taylor.
   In particular, the FDIC is structuring takeovers of failed
banks so that credit isn't immediately cut off to borrowers
who are paying interest monthly, although their ability to
repay the loan upon maturity is in doubt. Most of these
so-called "performing-nonperforming loans" are real-estate
loans that borrowers will find it difficult to replace
because the value of the underlying collateral has declined.
   In Texas and New England and other areas hit by bank
failures, businesses and politicians have complained that
FDIC policies encouraged buyers of failed banks to call
performing-nonperforming loans. In many cases borrowers had
to default and go out of business because they couldn't
refinance.
   So, recently, when the FDIC took over CrossLand Savings
after the agency couldn't get acceptable bids for the failed
Brooklyn bank, the corporation installed a new chairman and
instructed him to collect as much as possible on defaulted
commercial real-estate loans, to restructure other loans if
necessary, and shrink CrossLand down to a core business of
residential real-estate lending. When CrossLand failed it had
deposits of $5.5 billion and assets of $7.4 billion.
   The FDIC hopes to sell CrossLand within a year or two,
recovering at least $400 million of the $1.2 billion it put
into the bank in January. The agency estimated that it would
have lost $1.2 billion or more by selling the bank's deposits
and then liquidating the performing assets, rather than
keeping them in a functioning bank.
   The agency also has moved to slow the sale of assets of
the former Bank of New England and required the purchaser of
another failed savings bank to work with troubled borrowers
before disposing of the loans. In addition, the FDIC is
telling banks and investor groups that it is willing to help
them finance the takeover of failed banks. It recently
purchased some preferred stock from Emigrant Savings Bank to
help the bank raise the capital to acquire Dollar Dry Dock
Bank, a failed savings bank based in White Plains, N.Y.
   But banking committees in the House and the Senate have
asked the General Accounting Office to investigate the
CrossLand and Bank of New England moves. Chairman Henry
Gonzalez (D., Texas) of the House Banking Committee worries
that the new methods will increase, rather than decrease, the
cost of dealing with failed banks. He says he sees efforts to
look for easy ways out of the savings-and-loan crisis "as a
continuation of an activity that has been disastrous for the
taxpayer."
   And some Wall Street analysts criticize the FDIC's
decision to take over CrossLand, charging that the
nationalization will lead only to greater losses. "Look at
the bet they're making," says Gerard Smith, a managing
partner at Salomon Brothers. "They're saying, `We'll take
over this enormous portfolio of real estate and run it until
things get better.'"
   Harrison Young, the FDIC official who orchestrates
takeovers of failed banks, responds that CrossLand "is
basically a pretty good bank with a good deposit franchise
that made some very bad commercial loans."
   More than 1,000 banks have failed in the past six years,
and the FDIC expects 200 more banks to fail this year. The
bank deposit insurance fund, which is collected from banks,
is so low that Congress has given it a new line of Treasury
credit.
   "If you can keep the assets in the banking system and have
a banker working them, the chances of collecting at a higher
rate are greater," Mr. Taylor argues. It doesn't make sense,
he adds, to sell at a discount a performing mortgage that
yields more than you can otherwise get.
   He says that putting loans into liquidation reduces their
value by about 25%. "What drives a CrossLand strategy is the
cost differential" between a loss of 25% from liquidation and
a loss of about 15% through arrangements that keep assets in
a bank as long as possible while attempts are made to solve
the problems, Mr. Taylor explains.
   Last month, the FDIC took several steps to slow the
liquidation of $1.7 billion of performing-nonperforming loans
that Fleet/Norstar Financial Group Inc. took over from the
Bank of New England, and encouraged Fleet and other banks to
refinance and even enlarge some of those loans.
   The FDIC acted after receiving loud complaints from the
New England congressional delegation. The time of the change,
which came just before the New Hampshire primary, generated
charges that the FDIC bent to political pressure. "Our
efforts to get the White House to look at this were
frustrated until the president's poll numbers went down,"
says Rep. Barney Frank (D., Mass.). "That's called
democracy."
   Mr. Taylor, who has headed the FDIC since November, says
that any suggestion that the change was politically motivated
is "shameful" and potentially damaging to the agency. He says
the new policies represent a growing conviction that "massive
liquidations in weak economies doesn't serve the public
interest." He stresses that the agency is prepared to
consider alternatives to liquidation in other parts of the
country as well.
   Mr. Young, a former investment banker, spends most of his
time looking for ways to structure bank takeovers so that
they'll cost the FDIC as little as possible. "We have to
experiment," he says. "When somebody says, `Hey, this is
inconsistent with what you did before,' to a degree our
answer is, `I hope so.'"