U.S. Reaches Telecommunications Pact
   With Seoul, but EC Impasse Continues
   ----
   By Eduardo Lachica
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The U.S. and the EC are trying to find that elusive accord
in the current round of negotiations under the General
Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, as well as through their
participation in a separate effort to redraft the GATT
government procurement code.
   While the impasse with the EC could drag on for several
more months, U.S. suppliers stand to benefit immediately from
the South Korean pact. Mrs. Hills said it will give them a
"fair shot" at the "fastest-growing sectors" of a market now
totaling $5 billion annually.
   The agreement calls for the Korean government to simplify
the regulations affecting foreign providers of
telecommunications services and to allow them to hook up
Korean subscribers to international value-added networks,
which give subscribers instant access to overseas data bases.
Seoul also has promised to speed up its schedule for reducing
tariffs on telecommunications equipment.
   At the same time, U.S. vendors will have greater access to
the procurement business of Korea Telecom, a state-owned
monopoly that eventually may be transformed into a publicly
traded company like Japan's NTT Corp. "The news about Korea
is very good," said Herb Linen, a spokesman for American
Telephone  Telegraph Co. "We wish we had similar success in
the EC."
   The EC delegation in Washington read Mrs. Hills's
announcement merely as an attempt by the U.S. to gain
"negotiating leverage," and said that the threat of sanctions
"is not conducive to successful negotiations."
   Both the EC and South Korea were identified in 1989 as
"priority" areas under a provision of the 1988 trade act
aimed at breaking down barriers in foreign telecommunications
markets. Friday was the deadline for negotiating the removal
of such barriers in the two areas, but the U.S. recognizes
that more time is needed to break the impasse with the EC.
   At the root of the stalemate are the different structures
of the U.S. and EC telecommunications markets. The U.S. wants
the EC's state-owned telecommunications agencies to adopt
nondiscriminatory buying practices that the GATT has endorsed
for government agencies as a rule. The EC won't do that until
the U.S. agrees to modify the so-called special rights that
ATT and the Bell regional companies have retained under the
ATT divestiture rules, and allow more European participation
in this market.
   ATT is opposed to such concessions. "The U.S. market is
wide open," Mr. Linen insisted. "A number of European
companies are already operating, unfettered, in this market."
   At the same time, the U.S. is trying to break down some of
the barriers that General Electric Co. is encountering in its
attempts to sell steam turbines to EC utilities. The EC
directive that takes effect in January, for instance, will
allow those utilities to pass up equipment with less than a
50% EC content. The directive also will give preference to EC
bidders even if their prices are slightly higher than those
of foreign competitors.