Law -- Legal Beat:
   Minnesota Court Upholds Award
   To Source Newspapers Identified
   ----
   By Arthur S. Hayes and Marj Charlier
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
The case against the Minneapolis Star Tribune and the St.
Paul Pioneer Press Dispatch had gone to the U.S. Supreme
Court, which ruled in 1990 that the suit didn't violate the
newspapers' First Amendment rights. It was then returned to
the Minnesota Supreme Court which decided the case on state
law issues.
   First Amendment lawyers had mixed reactions to the state
Supreme Court decision. Some predicted the ruling would
encourage similar suits in every state and give sources a new
tool to manipulate the news. Other lawyers called the ruling
disappointing but said it would have little impact on the
relationship between reporters and their sources.
   Writing for a unanimous court, Judge John Simonett ruled
that Dan Cohen, a public relations executive, was entitled to
$200,000 in damages because he had relied on promises of
confidentiality from reporters at the Minneapolis paper,
owned by Cowles Media Co. and the St. Paul paper, owned by
Knight-Ridder Inc. Mr. Cohen sued the newspapers after they
broke a promise not to identify him as the source of
embarrassing information about a candidate for Minnesota's
lieutenant governorship in 1982.
   "In reliance on the promise of anonymity, (Mr.) Cohen
turned over (documents) and, when the promises to keep his
name confidential were broken, he lost his job," Judge
Simonett said.
   Jane Kirtley, executive director of The Reporters
Committee for Freedom of the Press in Washington, a watchdog
group, said the ruling is bad news for reporters because now
"every state court will have to deal with whether its
constitution or state statutes" protect reporters from breach
of contract actions filed by sources.
   Noting that the state high court suggested that the
newspapers could have referred to Mr. Cohen as "someone close
to the opposing gubernatorial ticket," Ms. Kirtley said the
decision "smacks of the courts being super editors." She said
that unidentified sources might sue reporters if readers
guessed their identity. "This really could turn into a real
nightmare," Ms. Kirtley said.
   Bruce Sanford, a First Amendment specialist at Baker 
Hostetler in Washington, said he fears the decision will
prompt sources to ask reporters to write stories a certain
way or make other demands that encroach on a newspaper's
editorial integrity.
   Mr. Sanford says about six similar suits have been filed
since 1988, when a jury awarded the damages to Mr. Cohen.
   But Paul Hannah of the St. Paul law firm Hannah  Zenner,
which represented the St. Paul Pioneer, argued that the small
number of similar pending suits shows that the ruling will
have little impact. The Minnesota Supreme Court ruling, he
argued, is a fact-specific opinion "which will probably not
have much precedential" value.
   "These are difficult cases to bring," Mr. Hannah added.
"You need a very specific, provable promise."
   In a prepared statement, the Minneapolis Star Tribune
said, "We are obviously disappointed in the decision, but we
respect it."
   ---
   TEST DRILLING FOR DIAMONDS in a state park is permissible,
court rules.
   A federal appeals court in St. Louis ruled that commercial
use of a public recreation area isn't prohibited so long as
it is temporary and "minimal."
   In a 2-1 decision, the Eighth U.S. Circuit Court of
Appeals threw out a lower court decision that had stopped
diamond test-drilling in the Crater of Diamonds State Park in
Arkansas. A lower court had permanently enjoined the testing,
accepting the argument of the Sierra Club and others that the
testing was a "conversion of use" of the park from
recreational to commercial purposes.
   Under the Federal Land and Water Conservation Act, public
recreational lands that receive funds provided for by the act
can't be used for purposes unrelated to public recreation.
The lower court ruled that the drilling was a conversion of
use and that by allowing the drilling to take place, the
federal Interior Department was acting arbitrarily and
capriciously.
   But the appeals court noted that the testing at issue in
the case would only involve drilling 30 holes to a depth of
1,000 feet in an area of about 50 feet by 100 feet for a
period of about 12 weeks. The Interior Department's decision
to allow such minimal and temporary non-conforming use "in no
way ushers in a parade of horribles culminating in full-blown
commercial mining," the appeals court ruled. "The park's
purpose is by no means turned nonrecreational."
   A partner in one of the mining companies that have
provided funds for the drilling said he hopes the testing can
now proceed. Limited drilling was done before the lower court
issued its injunction in August 1990 and demonstrated that a
large formation or "pipe" exists in the park, said Jean
Boulle, a partner in the Arkansas Diamond Development Corp.
   But an attorney for the Sierra Club Legal Defense Fund
said he and other attorneys involved in the case will
determine whether to ask the appeals court for a re-hearing
of the case or ask the lower court to consider other issues
in the case. "The controversy will continue," said Jim
Stanley, the Sierra Club lawyer.
   Opponents of the drilling worry that the appeals court
ruling may lead to similar conversions of public lands.
   ---
   CLIENTS ARE GETTING BILLED more frequently for legal work,
study shows.
   Billing cycles have become shorter in each of the past
five years, according to a study by Hildebrandt Inc., a
Somerville, N.J. consulting firm. Six years ago a hefty
amount of legal work, 46.2%, remained unbilled for at least
90 days after the work was performed by attorneys. Last year,
bills sent after at least 90 days fell to 28.1%, the study
showed.
   Lawyers familiar with the move to bill and collect fees
faster attribute it only partly to the effect of the
recession on cash-hungry law firms. In recent years, law
firms have increasingly tried to run themselves like
corporations.
   Michael E. Phenner, managing partner of the Chicago law
firm Hopkins  Sutter, noted that 20 years ago many law firms
billed their clients only once a year. In the 1980s, they
moved to quarterly and often monthly billing. "It comes down
to better communication with the client," Mr. Phenner said.
   Clients, for the most part, have welcomed the change in
billing frequency because it makes it easier to budget legal
costs and stay on top of what their lawyers are doing. There
are fewer surprises and arguments over prices.
   General Motors Corp. has pushed aggressively for shorter
billing cycles. The Detroit auto maker's vice president and
general counsel, Harry J. Pearce, recalled once waiting
several years for a bill from a law firm. The laggard law
firm, which he declined to name, was fired. "That makes it
hard to question the completeness or incompleteness" because
memories have faded, he said. The company feeds billing data
into a computer program that projects yearly legal costs.
   Large law firms of more than 300 lawyers handling complex
litigation take slightly longer than smaller law firms to
churn out bills, said David Jarcik, who watches law
department finances for Motorola Inc. in Schaumburg, Ill.
Nevertheless, he added, most large firms usually send bills
every month or month and a half.
   Maryellen Cattani, senior vice president and general
counsel for American President Companies Ltd. in San
Francisco, said she was recently taken aback when a firm took
three months to send a bill. "It's just kind of odd," she
said. "It really is out of the normal course."
   ---
   HIGH-LEVEL PERSONNEL MOVES expected at the Justice
Department.
   President Bush is expected to nominate George Terwilliger
to be deputy attorney general, the department's No. 2 job.
Mr. Terwilliger has been holding the post in an interim
capacity. A career prosecutor and former U.S. attorney from
Vermont, he has advised Attorney General William Barr on such
politically sensitive matters as the BCCI case and the
Haitian refugee situation.
   Meanwhile, speculation has increased that James Rill,
assistant attorney general in charge of the Antitrust
Division, will leave by year end. Lawyers familiar with the
division predict that once Mr. Rill completes a revision of
the unit's internal merger-enforcement guidelines, he will
return to private practice. Mr. Rill, who has tried to revive
a division slashed nearly in half during the Reagan
administration, said he has no immediate plans to leave.
   There are also openings for the posts of assistant
attorneys general in charge of environmental and tax matters.
The post on the environment was supposed to go to New York
lawyer James Benkard, but his expected nomination has been
stalled for months. Conservative activists at the Washington
Legal Foundation take credit for blocking Mr. Benkard, whom
they consider too sympathetic to environmentalists. Mr.
Benkard said he is still a candidate but expressed
frustration over the delay.