Weapons Makers
   Unite to Dismantle
   Nuclear Arsenals
   ---
   Lockheed, McDermott, Olin
   Form Disarmament Firm;
   Need for It Questioned
   ----
   by Rick Wartzman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The company's goal is to participate in planning and
implementing major disarmament initiatives either already
approved or currently under discussion between the U.S. and
the former Soviet Union.
   International Disarmament will be run by Troy Wade, a
former senior Energy Department official who once oversaw the
nation's vast nuclear-weapons manufacturing complex. Mr. Wade
will report to a board composed of representatives of the
three parent corporations.
   In an interview, Mr. Wade called the purging of the
world's nuclear arsenal "an enormous problem" that will
provide billions of dollars in potential business over many
years. The company also wants a role in destroying chemical
weapons.
   Some, however, were incredulous at the formation of the
new company. "There's no market for them to take apart our
weapons because that's already well in the hands of the
Department of Energy," said Thomas Cochran, senior scientist
at the Natural Resources Defense Council. And in the former
Soviet Union, he predicted that "they won't get to first
base" with military officials.
   But Lockheed, Olin and McDermott clearly believe they can
make money, and they hope their swift action will give them
an edge over potential competitors. They already have their
eyes on a $400 million program approved by Congress last year
to help the former Soviet states get rid of their warheads.
   "I certainly don't believe we'll see people from the U.S.
actually dismantling Soviet weapons or vice versa," Mr. Wade
said. "But I think there will be a lot of exchanges in terms
of planning, engineering and design work."
   For each of the three parent companies, the creation of
International Disarmament marks a stunning role reversal.
Lockheed, based in Calabasas, Calif., and the sixth-largest
Pentagon contractor, has for years built the Trident
ballistic missile. Olin Corp., Stamford, Conn., has a century
of experience as a munitions maker. And McDermott, based in
New Orleans, supplies nuclear fuel to the Navy.
   The turnabout was not lost on Mr. Wade, who for 30 years
helped the U.S. build its nuclear capability. "After having
spent my entire career in this business," he said, "I
appreciate how deadly these things are."