Politics  Policy:
   Bush Launches Re-Election Campaign,
   Seeks Support for Domestic Programs
   ----
   By Michel McQueen and John Harwood
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
Mr. Bush appealed to the Republican-dominated state
Legislature in Concord, N.H., for support for the
economic-growth plan he proposed last month. He also urged a
group of law-enforcement officers to support his anti-crime
bill, pushed his education proposals at a science center and
met voters at a shopping mall.
   Although Mr. Bush faces a primary challenge from former
presidential aide and television commentator Patrick
Buchanan, his message in Washington and New Hampshire was
basically aimed at a general-election audience. He exhorted
voters to demand that the Democratic-controlled Congress
enact his proposals, especially for the economy.
   Mr. Bush insisted he would hold lawmakers to a March 20
deadline he set in last month's State of the Union address
for Congress to adopt a package of tax cuts aimed at
stimulating the economy. "They say the deadline is arbitrary.
They say the deadline is too early. They say the deadline is
unfair. And I say the deadline is March 20, and we are going
to hold their feet to the fire," he said, adding later, "By
March 20, I want to be able to report to the American people
that the liberation of America's economy has begun."
   Mr. Bush never mentioned Mr. Buchanan, who is running on a
strong antitax and protectionist platform, but some of his
most pungent remarks seemed aimed at deriding Mr. Buchanan's
positions as naive and isolationist.
   "The simple truth is, protectionism isn't a prescription
for prosperity," Mr. Bush told the Legislature. "Boil away
all the tough talk, all the swagger and all the patriotic
posturing, and protectionism amounts to nothing more than a
smoke screen for a country that's running scared, and that's
not the America you and I know]" Noting that exports account
for 35,000 jobs in New Hampshire, the president added, "No
state would be hurt more by economic isolationism than New
Hampshire."
   But Mr. Bush also identified his own candidacy with themes
Mr. Buchanan has tapped: opposing taxes, supporting
traditional family values and excoriating government waste.
   In his announcement address, whose themes he echoed
throughout the day, Mr. Bush said: "I believe government is
too big and it costs too much. And I believe in a strong
defense for this country, good schools, safe streets, a
government really worthy of the people. And I believe that
parents, not government, should make the important decisions
about health, child care and education. And I believe in
personal responsibility."
   The tone of Mr. Bush's address differed from his election
announcement of October 1987, when he linked himself closely
with President Reagan's conservative causes such as aid to
the Nicaraguan Contras and skepticism toward the Soviet
Union. He also backed the economic recovery that began under
Mr. Reagan. Mr. Bush's message then seemed designed to show
how his compassion would soften the edges -- without
compromising the heart -- of Mr. Reagan's conservative
legacy.
   Instead, yesterday's announcement was intended to
highlight Mr. Bush's strength as a leader not only of the
nation but of the world. "From day one, I fought for strong
and effective national defense, I stuck to my principles, and
we kept strong and we won the Cold War," he said.
   Mr. Bush enters the campaign favored but damaged by the
economy's downturn since last summer, a fact that encouraged
Mr. Buchanan to enter the race. Although Mr. Bush holds a
wide lead, some polls have shown the margin diminishing
slightly in recent days, and the president's campaign
advisers caution that opinion is always volatile in the
closing days of a New Hampshire campaign. Taking no chances,
Mr. Bush's campaign has scheduled a flurry of final-week
events intended to ensure an overwhelming victory over Mr.
Buchanan.
   Mr. Bush was greeted in New Hampshire by stinging
editorial criticism. The tabloid Boston Herald, which is
widely available in southern New Hampshire, scorned Mr. Bush
as "a Beltway president" and "a protected insider" who has
abandoned conservative principles on taxes and other issues.
   "George Bush has betrayed those who voted for him in
1988," the Herald declared in a front-page editorial
endorsing Mr. Buchanan. "Bush is a decent man who talks a
great game -- then wimps out whenever Congress plays rough."