International:
   Businesses in Venezuela Are Optimistic
   Reforms Will Continue as Coup Fails
   ----
   By Thomas Kamm
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
In fact, he says, democracy has come out strengthened, and
so has Mr. Perez. "We went through a test of fire, and we got
through it," says Mr. Broslat. His confidence exemplifies the
giddy mood reigning in Venezuela's business community as the
country quickly returned to normalthough armored vehicles and
soldiers still surrounded the Miraflores presidential palace,
and there were fresh rumors of rioting here last night.
   Businessmen and bankers acknowledge that the uprising
could lead some investors to have second thoughts and could
threaten this year's macroeconomic targets, but they stress
that the quick and decisive crushing of the coup attempt
assures the continuation of economic reforms that have put
Venezuela in the forefront of South America's free-market
revolution.
   "This was an unfortunate, unnecessary and unwanted event,
but Venezuela's momentum is such that it is just a stumbling
block on the way to its becoming a more prosperous country,"
says Stephen Fellows, president of the American-Venezuelan
Chamber of Commerce.
   Adds Andres Sosa Pietri, president of the huge state-owned
oil company, Petroleos de Venezuela S.A.: "What will this do
to business? I think it will do nothing."
   Financial markets remained closed yesterday to prevent a
wave of panic trading, making it difficult to verify whether
investors shared this optimism. But the value of Venezuela's
debt on the secondary market stayed virtually stable, and Mr.
Broslat says no investors have defected from Corrimon's
offering.
   But while they are confident the country's free-market
reforms will be preserved, many here also say that the failed
coup is likely to force Mr. Perez to loosen his tight fiscal
and monetary policies in order to increase social spending.
   Indeed, while the coup leaders never clearly explained
their aims, analysts say they were trying to capitalize on a
broad wave of discontent that has led to a series of protests
by students and teachers over price rises and poor pay.
   Through a series of belt-tightening measures, including
cuts in subsidies, Mr. Perez managed to bring inflation down
to 30% last year from 89% three years ago, while balancing
the budget and doubling reserves to $14 billion.
   "The coup attempt was a wake-up call to spend more money
on social programs that have been delayed," says a banker
here. "I expect this year we will have more distribution of
income, and this will have an effect on reserves, the fiscal
deficit, inflation and the currency."
   But paradoxically, this could speed up some of Mr. Perez's
free-market moves, some say. Mr. Perez will have to find new
sources of revenue to fund increased social spending. This
could mean more privatization following the successful
sell-offs last year of assets such as telecommunications
company CANTV to a consortium headed by GTE Corp., and the
airline Viasa to Spain's Iberia.