International:
   Die-Hard Soviets Try Not to Fade Away
   ---
   Discombobulated Deputies,
   In a `Secret' Reassembly,
   Fail to Resurrect the Past
   ----
   By Adi Ignatius
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
For one surreal day, the old Communist guard tried to
resurrect the defunct Soviet Union. The People's Congress of
the U.S.S.R., disbanded after the failed coup in August, was
back. Ignoring government warnings, organizers invited
workers, peasants, soldiers and other deputies to convene an
extraordinary session of the Communist-dominated congress, to
take advantage of discontent with Russia's painful economic
reforms.
   From the start, though, it is clear that things won't go
smoothly.
   Besides the bus problem, there is the question of the
venue. Organizers have kept it a secret. Not only from the
Moscow government, which had made it clear that the deputies
weren't welcome within the city's confines. Or from a prying
press. It was also kept from the delegates themselves, many
of whom had flown in from Russia's farthest reaches.
   "I don't know what we're doing," says Vladimir Pavlov, a
trade union official who stands amid a throng of other
confused deputies and journalists in the lobby of the Moskva
Hotel. "I'm just waiting for someone to tell me what to do."
   As the time drags on, Viktor Alksnis, a fearsome former
army figure known as the Black Colonel, tries to take
control. By now the buses are a full hour late, and delegates
are beginning to despair. The hardline military man climbs up
on a stepladder to peer above the sea of heads. "Comrades,"
he begins, using a form of address that all but disappeared
when the Communist Party collapsed last year, "the
governments of Russia and Moscow are giving orders to keep
our buses from coming here. But be patient. They will arrive
to take us to our meeting. In Podolsk."
   Several hundred people begin scrambling around asking each
other what and where is Podolsk? They are told it's an
industrial city an hour south of Moscow. Journalists begin
beating an exit to get to the Podolsk city meeting hall
before the deputies.
   Vladimir Zhirinovsky, perhaps the most visible among
hard-line opponents to Russian President Boris Yeltsin, heads
outside as well, to travel in his own Volga sedan. On the
way, the ardent Russian nationalist stops to talk to
journalists and launches into a diatribe about Mother Russia.
"Peter the Great should have destroyed Sweden," he tells a
Swedish journalist.
   Five Hungarian-made buses loaded with deputies plus
perhaps 70 journalists' cars speed to Podolsk. The reporters
arrive first, and burst into the sleepy town's city hall.
Andrei Antonovsky, a local foreign trade official, is
startled to learn that Communists are planning to meet there.
He speaks to his boss and then tells the crowd, "Nothing will
take place here. The deputies haven't asked us, nor have we
invited them." As the journalists begin to leave, he calls
out, "By the way, Podolsk is a great industrial city and we
welcome foreign investment."
   So when the deputies finally arrive, organizers give the
drivers a new destination and the buses drive away, the
journalists now in pursuit. For 40 minutes the buses drive
deeper into the Russian countryside, finally pulling into the
tiny dairy-farming village of Voronovo, where the delegates
pile into the Friendship House of Culture. To enter, they
have to squeeze through a gantlet of journalists, who
outnumber them two to one.
   The House of Culture's auditorium is large, but for some
reason -- "sabotage," the organizers later claim -- the
lights don't work. Delegates stumble down the dark steps and
into their seats. The organizing committee takes its seats at
a desk on the stage draped with a red banner. Someone tacks a
small hammer-and-sickle flag on the wall behind them.
   The only lights are from the television cameras. But at
moments when the filming stops, the congress is plunged into
darkness. But the megaphone is still working, and the
chairwoman, a middle-aged blonde named Sazhi Umalatova, calls
the session to order, about three hours late. Mr. Alksnis
holds the megaphone for her; an aide holds up a flashlight.
   "We are the only ones who can solve the country's
problems," says Ms. Umalatova. "I proclaim the sixth Congress
open." As if at a hockey game, the delegates begin cheering
in rhythm, "Soviet Union] Soviet Union]"
   By rough count, there are 200 delegates. Ms. Umalatova
claims there are 438. Either way, it's a fraction of the
2,250 delegates elected to the congress before its demise.
"In past years, the question of a quorum has never arisen,"
she calls from the dark. "So we won't worry about it this
year." Finally, someone produces a candle. It helps, but the
soft light creates the effect of a seance. To resurrect the
Soviet Union.
   The organizers quickly push through several decrees and
nominate a new presidium. Almost every vote passes
unanimously, as in the old days. In her haste, Ms. Umalatova
declares one document approved before taking a show of hands.
She realizes the mistake and backtracks. "By the way," she
says, "who is in favor?" It passes unanimously.
   Delegates stand up to speak. One suggests that Mikhail
Gorbachev should "pay the price" for what has befallen the
deputies. Another reads letters of support from two former
deputies who were jailed for taking part in the failed
Putsch.
   The mood of unanimity is unexpectedly spoiled when
Rostislav Tsykalo, a deputy from Khakassia, suggests that,
before the deputies vote to approve documents prepared by the
organizers, they should read them first. "At least let
someone read out the names of the decrees," he pleads. "What
we are doing now is stupid]"
   He is shouted down. The deputies vote, with only Mr.
Tsykalo opposed, not to read the documents. But Mr. Alksnis
does agree to read out their titles.
   "The local government says they need to clean up the
hall," Ms. Umalatova declares, signaling that it's time to
wrap up the congress after only an hour. "We have made clear
to the world that the extraordinary Congress of the U.S.S.R.
has taken place. The Soviet Union still exists."