REVIEW  OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   Polly's Victory
Those asking that the choice program be upheld included
Lonzetta Davis and her daughter Sabrina; Velma Frier and her
daughter Shavonne; and Thais Jackson and her daughter Tamika.
Joining them were the Harambee Community School, the Urban
Day School and the Juanita Virgil Academy, three innovative
schools with a history of educational achievement. The
opposition included the Wisconsin Association of School
District Administrators, the Wisconsin Federation of
Teachers, the Milwaukee Teachers Education Association and
the Wisconsin Congress of Parents and Teachers.
   The court decision will allow 554 low-income students to
continue attending nonsectarian private schools using a state
scholarship worth $2,500 a year. That's less than half of
what it costs to educate a child in Milwaukee's public
schools. An outside evaluation of the 18-month-old program
recommended it be continued. The parents involved are highly
pleased, which is crucially important for the kids' attitudes
toward school.
   Writing for the 4-to-3 majority, Justice William J. Callow
cited the conclusion of Brookings Institution scholars John
Chubb and Terry Moe that "autonomy from bureaucracy is
capable of making the difference between effective and
ineffective" schools. The court also dismissed arguments that
choice schools would be unaccountable. "Parents generally
know their children better than anyone," wrote Justice
Callow. "If the private school does not meet the parents'
expectations, the parents may remove the child. . . . In this
way, parental choice preserves accountability for the best
interests of the children."
   Judge Louis J. Ceci went even further in his concurring
opinion. He wrote that the choice program "attempted to throw
a life preserver to those Milwaukee children caught in the
cruel riptide of a school system floundering upon the shoals
of poverty, status-quo thinking, and despair." He concluded
his opinion by asking the state to "give choice a chance."
   Polly Williams's victory is not hers alone. Parents and
business leaders are joining forces across the country to
propose choice programs. In Indianapolis, the Golden Rule
Insurance Co. is helping 600 low-income students attend local
private schools. An educational-choice initiative is headed
for California's November ballot, if it can survive an
extremely aggressive effort by the teachers' unions to block
the collection of signatures.
   Other parents will now no doubt be inspired by Mrs.
Williams's court victory and the gains made by her choice
program. Wisconsin Governor Tommy Thompson, who was
instrumental in making choice possible in Milwaukee, says,
"The country has been watching Wisconsin for a signal. Now
they've got it."