Chugging Along:
   The Kiamichi Shows
   How Small Railroads
   Can Serve Rural Areas
   ---
   More and More Short Lines
   Are Taking Over Trackage
   From the Major Carriers
   ---
   An Odd Reversal of History
   ----
   By Daniel Machalaba
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
That kind of laid-back operation might drive a big
railroad into bankruptcy. But Mr. Robertson now works for a
tiny line called the Kiamichi Railroad, which has bought this
track from Burlington Northern. And though it operates in a
depressed area of cattle ranches and piney woods, it is
turning a profit, while winning the loyalty of shippers and
townsfolk.
   The Kiamichi (French for an extinct local woodpecker) is
representative of the newly evolving railroad industry. The
nation's big railroads grew by combining short lines into
long ones. Now many are selling off weaker operations, which
become short-haul, low-volume -- and often quite profitable
-- carriers. Today short lines operate 24% of the nation's
track, up from 6% two decades ago, according to the
Association of American Railroads.
   "We're changing the whole image of railroading," says Jack
L. Hadley, the Kiamichi's president and the leader of the
group that formed it in 1987. Economists agree. They say Mr.
Hadley and people like him are reducing transport costs,
preserving rail service and jobs in rural America and showing
how railroads can stay competitive in the 1990s.
   But there are critics, too. Edward Wytkind, executive
director of the AFL-CIO's Transportation Trades Department,
says short lines have "splintered the railroad system,
displaced thousands of workers and left track in the hands of
poorly capitalized, poorly maintained railroad companies one
disaster from bankruptcy."
   The Burlington Northern was eager to dispose of what is
now the Kiamichi: two lines totaling 230 miles, one running
from Lakeside, Okla., to Hope, Ark., and another from
Antlers, Okla., to Paris, Texas. Mr. Hadley and his group
paid $10 million to the giant carrier, which lent them 60% of
it. Mr. Hadley holds 70% of the Kiamichi, with the rest owned
by eight current and former holders of Anacostia & Pacific
Co., a New York transportation-investment firm.
   Once in control, Mr. Hadley, a 37-year veteran of
short-line railroads in the Northeast, went to work quickly.
As the chief of a new railroad, he could replace unionized
workers with nonunion employees earning 40% less, and could
operate without the work rules and manning levels that have
plagued big railroads. He used the savings to double train
frequency and hold down rates while launching an aggressive
marketing program to lure back shippers that had defected to
trucks and other railroads.
   Carloadings, which had been declining under Burlington
Northern's management, grew to 33,500 last year from 18,000
in 1986. The Burlington Northern says it can't calculate
whether the lines made or lost money for it, but as an
independent, the Kiamichi earned $1.2 million on revenue of
$9.6 million last year.
   Short lines such as the Kiamichi, says John Hall, a vice
president of Burlington Northern, "raise the question of can
Joe Blow run a railroad better than we can." He adds that Mr.
Hadley has the "flexibility to provide a different type of
service than we could provide."
   Concern over that flexibility was exactly why townsfolk in
Hugo tried to block creation of the Kiamichi with protest
meetings and objections to the Interstate Commerce Commission
and, Mr. Hadley says, chains and logs on the tracks. They
feared Mr. Hadley's plans to operate the lines with half as
many employees. The loudest objections came from rail workers
facing big pay cuts. "It was just a sham deal to take away
our seniority and cut our salary in half," says Jackie David
Peddy, a conductor who now commutes three hours a day to keep
his $50,000-a-year job with the Burlington Northern.
   Today, however, Mr. Hadley is popular in Hugo, a town of
7,172 where the two lines cross and where the Kiamichi has
its headquarters and main freight yard. Employment, slashed
after the takeover, has climbed back to 75 full-time
positions, almost as many as Burlington had here. The
Kiamichi buys its fuel oil, copying machines, stationery and
automobiles locally. Shippers praise the expanded service.
Now local boosters say the Kiamichi has become an important
industrial-development tool.
   Mr. Hadley cultivates this local popularity. The Kiamichi
sponsors the first prize for bull-riding at Hugo's annual
rodeo, and, for a nominal fee, runs a weekend tourist train
from the town's restored depot.
   Kiamichi officials regularly visit even small shippers and
try to be of help. To a big railroad, "we're just a number in
their computer, but we're a pretty good-sized customer to
these people," says Ted Kirkpatrick, who owns a feed-additive
company. Last August he relocated the business to a site
along the Kiamichi, moving it from its location along the
track of a big railroad.
   Martin Fry, who owns a pulpwood yard in Fort Towson,
Okla., says Burlington Northern trains often rushed past
without stopping. "They had half a dozen excuses. The train
was too big to stop, or they didn't have time. The Kiamichi
treats small customers a whole lot better."
   On at least one occasion, the Kiamichi sent a locomotive
to Madill, Okla., to rush a single hopper car of flour to a
local Campbell Soup Co. plant that was about to run out. It
also provides just-in-time delivery of tin plate to the
plant. And it has reduced freight rates by establishing
connections to a number of mainline railroads, much to the
surprise of Burlington Northern officials accustomed to
thinking of the feeder line as their own.
   Weyerhaeuser Co. has capitalized on the Kiamichi's
multiple connections to play off one big railroad against
another, driving down shipping costs by 5% to 20%. David
Giorgi, a transportation analyst at the forest-products
company, says the Kiamichi is "much more open to help us
develop new markets." Burlington Northern disdained the
meager revenue from interconnecting with the Santa Fe Railway
for freight moving to California. But the Kiamichi, eager to
oblige, has increased its revenue from Weyerhaeuser.
   But some shippers resist using the Kiamichi because it
can't take their goods all the way, as a truck can. "Kiamichi
can provide excellent service in its own area, but once the
shipment gets on a long-haul railroad, I start chewing my
nails," says Carl Lucas, transportation manager of Campbell's
Paris, Texas, plant. Though Campbell increased inbound rail
shipments of ingredients and tin plate on the Kiamichi, the
food company hasn't restored a siding for outbound shipments
that had been removed to make room for truck loading docks.
   Undaunted, Mr. Hadley recently visited Mr. Lucas, arguing
that even if Campbell didn't use the siding, "it's a real
deterrent to keep the {truckers} from getting too greedy."
Mr. Lucas acknowledges that Mr. Hadley "may eventually wear
us down."
   Though the Kiamichi turned a profit right from the start,
it has been low on cash because of simultaneous needs to
repay debt and fix track. Years of deferred maintenance under
Burlington Northern, and south-eastern Oklahoma's rainy
climate, have slowed the track work. Keeping tracks out of
the mud is "a never-ending battle," says transportation
manager Claude Griggs. Because beavers building dams along
the tracks have caused several costly floods, the Kiamichi
occasionally pays a $25-a-pelt bounty to a local trapper.
   So, despite relatively large expenditures, parts of the
line are still rough. "When we get past one {speed
restriction}, we have to slow down for the next," says Mr.
Robertson, the engineer. Also reflecting the road's limited
financial resources are its ragtag, though freshly painted,
second-hand locomotives.
   Partly because of its cash squeeze, the Kiamichi has
stretched out some payments to other railroads for joint
freight shipments. The cash problem was aggravated in 1990
when the road spent $700,000 to restore a mile of track
washed away by a flood on the Red River.
   Nevertheless, Mr. Hadley acquired a dilapidated Santa Fe
line in 1990 and created the Chaparral Railroad, which links
up with the Kiamichi at Paris and runs 61 miles toward
Dallas. "I have no desire to create an empire," he says. "If
we became a really big outfit, we might lose some of our
ability to perform." Rather, his goal was to improve the
Kiamichi's access to the Southwest; he believes that further
traffic gains depend partly on his ability to extend
connections to other railroads.
   The 65-year-old Mr. Hadley tackles problems with
enthusiasm. He has long wanted to make changes in
railroading. A math major at Holy Cross College in Worcester,
Mass., he operated LTV Corp.'s steel-hauling railroads until
retiring in 1987. On some LTV lines, he departed from the
industry's rigid craft distinctions by cross-training
employees and creating the all-purpose job of "railroader."
   "A person who can do a lot of jobs will stay employed"
during a business slowdown, he says. That principle has been
put into practice on the Kiamichi, which avoided layoffs even
when its biggest customer, a coal-fired utility at Fort
Towson, shut down for 75 days. Idled train crews kept busy
fixing freight cars and track.
   The Kiamichi gets praise from some workers. It built a
repair shop in Hugo so they wouldn't have to fix locomotives
and freight cars in the rain. And it has improved the crew
lounge with showers, air conditioning and a microwave oven.
The company offers a profit-sharing plan, tuition payments
for employees and their families and regular hours for train
crews used to erratic schedules with the Burlington Northern.
Another perk: free wooden crossties for fence building.
   Some employees say the Kiamichi tries to cultivate a
family atmosphere, in contrast to the military-style
discipline of large railroads. "That happens. Don't worry
about it," Mr. Hadley tells a carman whose failure to report
sticking brakes on a coal car caused more than $10,000 in
wheel damage. Later, Mr. Hadley says, "What good does it do
to punish a guy who is already saying mea culpa?"
   "Money-wise, I liked the Burlington Northern, but
people-wise, I like working for this outfit," says Johnny
James, a locomotive engineer who earns $25,000 to $30,000 a
year at the Kiamichi, down from $45,000 at Burlington
Northern. With the Kiamichi, he says, "There's more business,
and we'll get raises later."
   The Kiamichi is a family business in another way, too. Mr.
Hadley's son-in-law, James Shaffer, is vice president,
administration, and heir apparent. Mr. Hadley's daughter,
Judy Shaffer, handles the Kiamichi's public relations and
real-estate matters while working as an animal rehabilitator.
His son Tom is a lawyer who works one day a week for the
Kiamichi. Another son, Ken, was the chief mechanical officer
until he was sidetracked last October by injuries and job
stress. "Stress and I never got along, and railroading is
pure stress," he says.
   A case in point: Some townspeople still think they are
dealing with the well-endowed Burlington Northern when they
make damage claims against the Kiamichi. "We find we never
hit a cow that isn't a prize animal," Jack Hadley says.