Marketing:
   Fatter Camels
   Try to Invade
   Marlboro Turf
   ----
   By Kathleen Deveny
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The unorthodox innovation, called Camel Wides, marks the
first attempt by an American cigarette maker to sell U.S.
consumers on a thicker smoke. It's part of a broader effort
by the nation's No. 2 tobacco merchant to prop up its waning
full-priced cigarette brands with novel product permutations.
Last year, for example, the company concocted new packaging
for its flagging Winston brand designed to keep the smokes
fresh longer. It has since repackaged its Salem cigarettes
using the same technology.
   The tobacco unit of RJR Nabisco Holdings Inc. hopes that
Camel Wides, which are aimed primarily at young men, will
steal puffers from Marlboro, made by archrival Philip Morris
Cos. RJ Reynolds has already had some success luring youthful
smokers from Marlboro country with its Camel filters.
   The new Camel Wides, which are about two millimeters
thicker than standard cigarettes but slightly shorter, will
contain a few more puffs. In addition, the smoke contains a
new blend of tobacco, intended to give a smoother, milder
flavor than the standard Camel blend. But the new Camels are
expected to register on the high end of the tar and nicotine
scale.
   "We were looking for a point of differentiation to extend
the appeal of the brand," says David N. Iauco, senior vice
president of marketing at RJ Reynolds. "Camel Wide feels
different in your hand and in your mouth."
   But some industry executives and distributors question the
strategy. They note that while wider or oval-shaped
cigarettes have long been popular in France and Belgium,
fatter versions offered by brands such as Gauloises and
Gitanes have never caught on in the U.S.
   And while Camel Wides will be priced the same as regular
Camels, experts also wonder if today's value-oriented smokers
will be interested in a modestly thicker cigarette, or even
understand exactly how they differ.
   "They've come out in a box very similar to regular Camels,
and I think this might be confusing to consumers," said a
marketing executive at a rival company.
   Some tobacco wholesalers are already calling the new
format unwieldy. Regional distributors, who are responsible
for applying state tax stamps to the bottom of cigarette
packs, complain Camel Wides don't fit through their automated
stamping machines and will require hand-stamping.
Nonetheless, most wholesalers contacted indicate they will
carry the line.
   But RJ Reynolds is counting on Camel Wides to help halt
the slide of its fourthlargest brand. Camel filter cigarettes
have increased in popularity since 1988, when the company
began using the Old Joe Camel mascot in its advertising.
Nontheless, Camel's total share of the U.S. cigarette market
fell to 4% for the first nine months of 1991, down from 4.5%
in 1990, says John C. Maxwell, a tobacco analyst with Wheat
First Securities.
   Although Old Joe has drawn increasing fire from smoking
foes who contend the cartoon character appeals mainly to
children, RJ Reynolds is planning to expand the campaign for
the Camel Wides launch. Billboards for the smokes, created by
the New York agency Mezzina/Brown Inc., feature not one, but
two of the beasts, both slightly pudgier than the original
Joe. One pitches full-strength Camel Wides; the other hawks a
lower-tar, lower-nicotine version of Camel Wides.
   So confident is RJ Reynolds of its risky concept that
rather than test-marketing it, the new cigarette will be
rolled out as early as March 1. Company officials said the
speedy introduction was meant to keep competitors off guard.
"We didn't want to give our competition time to react," said
RJ Reynolds's Mr. Iauco. "We're also pretty confident about
the product."