Mamie and Ike, Together Again
   ----
   By William Bragg Ewald Jr.
The letter, written from Germany and dated June 4, 1945,
reads: "Now that the time is approaching for my arrival in
the United States I want to discuss with you one subject in
which I must confess that my own conviction is somewhat
colored by personal desire. It involves the possibility of
enunciating some policy whereby certain personnel in the
occupation forces could bring their wives to this country.
What I have in mind is something about as follows. . . .
   "In the event that no policy of any kind could be approved
by the War Department at this time, the personal question
would become whether this whole Command, or public opinion,
would resent my arranging to bring my own wife here. This is
something that of course I cannot fully determine, but my
real feeling is that most people would understand that after
three years continued separation at my age, and with no
opportunity to engage, except on extraordinary occasions, in
normal social activities, they would be sympathetic about the
matter."
   It is unthinkable that Ike could have written a
(never-substantiated) letter purportedly asking Gen. Marshall
for permission to divorce Mamie at virtually the same time he
was almost pleading for Mamie's presence in Europe.
   Those who worked for Eisenhower are unanimous in praising
his integrity. He tried to do the right thing, and he did
this in his marriage as in other aspects of his life. His
letter to Gen. Marshall proves this.
   If Eisenhower ever saw Kay Summersby as a threat to his
marriage -- and absolutely no one except Ike himself could
have answered that question -- the record shows that he
responded as those who knew him would have expected. He asked
that his wife, Mamie, be sent to his side.
   Eisenhower had huge and impressive hands. This has been
observed by many people. I will never forget a visit my wife,
Mary, and I paid to the Eisenhowers' Gettysburg farm shortly
after Ike's death. Mrs. Eisenhower was a woman of great
charm. She adored the general with the most selfless devotion
and almost childlike enthusiasm. After we had talked with her
about her bereavement, as we were about to leave, she turned
from her sorrow to contemplate the stairwell. "I never see
the bannister," she said, "without seeing Ike's hand resting
on it."
   For couples everywhere, one of life's greatest
accomplishments is a long-enduring, mutually supportive,
loving and happy marriage. The Eisenhowers had such a
relationship. It is a good lesson for Valentine's Day.
   ---
   Mr. Ewald, of Greenwich, Conn., was a member of
Eisenhower's White House staff and is the author of
"Eisenhower the President: Crucial Days, 1951-1960" (1981).