Law -- Legal Beat:
   Lawyers Say Securities Fraud Case
   Connected to Wedtech Is Settled
   ----
   By Jonathan M. Moses and Junda Woo
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
The settlement was reached just before the scheduled trial
in federal court in Manhattan of the class action suit
brought by Wedtech Corp. shareholders and bond holders. The
plaintiffs contend that the defendants knew or should have
known of the fraud and criminal activity that in 1986 brought
down Wedtech, a Bronx-based defense contractor.
   "This is a global settlement," said Samuel Sporn, a
plaintiffs attorney at the New York law firm Shoengold 
Sporn. Mr. Sporn said the settlement represents almost half
of the more than $160 million in stocks and bonds that
Wedtech sold to the public between 1983 and 1986.
   Wedtech, which received preferential government treatment
because of its status as a minority-owned firm, had links to
prominent local and national public officials, including
former U.S. Attorney General Edwin Meese. Former New York
Congressmen Mario Biaggi and Robert Garcia were convicted of
extortion as a result of their dealings with the concern.
   Bear Stearns, which underwrote three of Wedtech's four
public offerings, will contribute $10 million to the
settlement, people familiar with Bear Stearns said. Most of
Bear Stearns's share will be covered by insurance, they said.
Bear Stearns had sued its law firm, Shearman  Sterling, in
connection with its advice about the public offerings. That
dispute also has been resolved and the New York law firm will
contribute to the securities fraud settlement, lawyers
familiar with the agreement said.
   Shearman  Sterling's lawyer, Edward Brodsky, confirmed
that his client's litigation with Bear Stearns had been
settled but wouldn't comment on whether the agreement
involved money.
   A Peat Marwick spokeswoman wouldn't comment on the amount
the firm will pay. A Deloitte  Touche spokesman didn't
return a phone call seeking comment.
   Moseley Securities Corp., the defunct investment bank that
underwrote some of Wedtech's offerings, will kick in $2.25
million, according to lawyers familiar with the settlement.
   Individual defendants, who included E. Robert Wallach, a
San Francisco lawyer and informal adviser to Mr. Meese, are
said not to be contributing substantially to the settlement.
Mr. Wallach, whose criminal conviction on Wedtech-related
charges has been overturned, said he isn't paying anything.
   A separate case brought by the trust liquidating Wedtech
against the two accounting firms is expected to go to trial
today in federal court in Manhattan. Brian M. Cogan, the
lawyer representing the trust, said that so far, Wedtech debt
holders and trade creditors have received one cent for every
three dollars owed.
   ---
   TOBACCO PLAINTIFF wins right to see industry documents.
   Tobacco companies and industry groups were ordered to turn
over 11 documents that a federal judge called evidence that
the industry chose "sales over safety, money over morality"
in marketing cigarettes. The judge also will consider
allowing the plaintiff in the Newark, N.J., case to see
another 1,489 memos and transcripts that allegedly show
tobacco companies knew smoking was dangerous but kept the
information from the public.
   "These are basically smoking guns," said Richard A.
Daynard, chairman of a tobacco product-liability project at
Boston's Northeastern University School of Law. "It will
affect all future cases and help make future cases much
easier."
   In a scathingly worded opinion, U.S. District Judge J. Lee
Sarokin overturned a magistrate's decision that almost all
the documents should remain confidential. In finding the
magistrate's decision "clearly erroneous," the judge cited
several of the papers, including a 1978 memo written at the
tobacco industry-funded Center for Tobacco Research that said
the research group "was set up as an industry `shield' in
1954."
   According to the judge's ruling, the documents indicate
that studies showing tobacco to be harmful were swept into a
special division of the research center where they could be
concealed from plaintiffs because of attorneys' rights to
keep their work-product confidential. The judge will appoint
a special master to re-examine whether the other documents
should also be made available to the plaintiff.
   Judge Sarokin issued the ruling in a suit filed by the
family of Peter F. Rossi, who died of lung cancer in 1982. He
smoked brands made by Liggett Group Inc., a unit of LeBow
Weksel  Co.; Philip Morris Cos.; Lorillard Inc., a unit of
Loews Corp.; and R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Co., now part of RJR
Nabisco Inc. The companies, and the Tobacco Institute, a
Washington, D.C., trade association, are defendants in the
suit.
   Kansas City attorney William L. Allinder, who represents
Philip Morris and Lorillard, said the companies are "strongly
considering" an appeal. "We don't agree with the inferences
he has drawn, and we don't believe they're substantiated,"
Mr. Allinder said.
   R.J. Reynolds, in a statement, said it will appeal and
that all the tobacco research group's studies have been made
public. "We would expect that Judge Sarokin's decision on
this matter would be overturned, as have many of his previous
rulings in the long history of these cases," the statement
said. A spokesman for Liggett said the company hadn't yet
decided whether to appeal.
   Judge Sarokin last sparred with tobacco companies in the
case of Rose Cipollone, a Little Ferry, N.J., woman who died
of lung cancer in 1984. The judge awarded Ms. Cipollone's
husband $400,000, a decision reversed by an appeals court.
The case is now before the U.S. Supreme Court, which will
decide whether cigarette-package warning labels protect
tobacco companies from liability.
   Susan Haines vs. Liggett Group Inc. et al., U.S. District
Court, Newark, N.J., 84678.
   ---
   FIRST PROSECUTION under California's corporate crime law
results in plea.
   A unit of Cargill Inc. entered the no-contest plea to a
misdemeanor charge that it violated the California Corporate
Criminal Liability Act. The statute, which critics have
dubbed the "be a manager, go to jail" act, imposes severe
penalties on companies and managers that don't report
workplace hazards or dangers in products.
   Under the law, the strictest of its kind in the country,
executives can be prosecuted as felons and imprisoned for up
to three years. Corporations can be fined for as much as $1
million for their failure to notify authorities and employees
in writing when they become aware of serious on-site dangers.
Previously, California didn't specifically make such
nondisclosure a criminal offense.
   The Cargill prosecution was prompted by the death last
year of a laborer at the giant Minneapolis company's Cargill
Salt Co. subsidiary in Newark, Calif., then known as Leslie
Salt Co. According to Blair Thomas, the Alameda County,
Calif., deputy district attorney who brought the case, the
worker caught his hand on a machine that prepares huge bags
of salt for stacking and was pulled between two conveyor
belts.
   A Cargill Salt spokeswoman said: "We feel very strongly
that we are innocent of the charge." She said the company
decided against "the emotional strain that a long and
protracted court battle would have placed on our employees."
   Critics of the law's strictest provisions said they fear
the statute will be used indiscriminately, even against
managers who made a good-faith decision not to disclose
certain conditions. "Some disclosures could be as misleading
as a nondisclosure, and people could be warned off a product
or a procedure that's not really dangerous," said Gerald W.
Palmer, a partner at the law firm of Jones, Day, Reavis 
Pogue, who has studied the law. But Mr. Thomas said that the
law punishes managers and companies in only a "particularized
set of circumstances," requiring a showing that managers knew
there was a serious danger that wouldn't be readily apparent
to a potential victim.
   Last week, the Los Angeles District Attorney's office
opened an investigation of Dow Corning Inc. and its managers
to determine whether the silicone-gel breast implant maker
violated the California Corporate Criminal Liability Act. The
Midland, Mich., company is under scrutiny by the U.S. Food
and Drug Administration for possibly withholding safety
information.
   ---
   MEDIA BLAMED for impression court system is falling apart,
survey shows.
   The survey, a poll of lawyers, judges, court
administrators, insurance executives and state legislators,
canvassed attitudes about the civil litigation process in
state courts. Some of the results from the 803 respondents
were surprising: Only 22% viewed the civil litigation system
negatively. The majority, 59%, however, gave it lukewarm
praise, saying the system works "somewhat well."
   Why do civil courts seem overwhelmed and on the verge of
breaking down? The media took the hit from 77% of respondents
for sensationalizing settlements and jury awards. The
respondents also said the process is too slow (72%); courts
are underfunded (69%) and litigation is becoming too complex
(61%).
   Sponsored by the Defense Research Institute, the insurance
industry defense attorney's group in Chicago, the survey was
described as a "representative cross section," though defense
lawyers in the pool outnumbered plaintiffs lawyers by
two-to-one. Nevertheless, the survey found defense lawyers
and plaintiffs lawyers almost equally culpable for increased
litigation costs.
   Respondents blamed both sides equally for abusing the
pretrial fact-finding process known as discovery. And a
strong majority of those polled favored more active
involvement by judges, including more use of disciplinary
penalties against lawyers (62%).
   Most surprising was the reaction to the Bush
administration's proposals to overhaul the civil courts. More
than 80% of the respondents weren't familiar with the
details.
   ---
   NOTED: The Bush administration and the Senate Judiciary
Committee announced an agreement that will restore to
committee members and certain committee aides limited access
to Federal Bureau of Investigation reports on judicial
nominees. The White House had sharply curtailed access to the
FBI material in the wake of an alleged leak to journalists of
confidential information about sexual harassment charges
against Clarence Thomas. The harassment charges became public
during Justice Thomas's stormy confirmation hearings last
fall. A special congressional investigator is examining
allegations of impropriety related to the purported news leak
from the panel.