Enterprise:
   Recession Apparently Spares Housewares Industry
   ---
   Entrepreneurs Cite More Cooking
   At Home by Consumers for Sharp Sales
   ----
   By Barbara Marsh
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
"As far as we're concerned, there's no recession," asserts
Rodney Robbins, co-owner of a Florence, Ala., maker of
adjustable measuring spoons and scoops. In its first year in
1991, his company Robbins Industries Inc. posted sales of
$450,000, he says. Based on early orders placed by retailers,
he predicts that sales will jump to $2 million this year. He
says his items are "hot" because consumers are eating out
less to save money and want things to make cooking at home
easier.
   Just as Gap Inc. has made big inroads in apparel retailing
by selling updated clothing staples at competitive prices,
houseware companies are increasing sales by combining
practicality and low prices with a dash of style.
   Budget-conscious consumers seek items that make doing
things at home easy and fun, says Mona Doyle, publisher of
the Shopper Report newsletter. J. Patrick Kelly, a marketing
professor at Wayne State University, agrees, noting that
consumers tell themselves: "If I'm going to stay at home, I
want it to be enjoyable. Why suffer?"
   Small manufacturers and small retailers predominate in the
housewares industry, whose sales held steady last year at
$84.4 billion, says Thomas Conley, executive director of the
National Housewares Manufacturers Association in Rosemont,
Ill.
   "So far in January, business has been terrific," says
Gordon Segal, president of Crate  Barrel, a retail chain
that sells cooking items, kitchen accessories and home
furnishings. Sales rose 15% in the first two weeks of this
month from the same period last year, he says. For all of
1991, the Northbrook, Ill., retailer says companywide sales
surged 18% to $170 million, with sales at stores open at
least a year up 8%.
   Yet the company's average sale is just $35.
   One company that is capitalizing on consumer frugality is
Lechters Inc., a retail chain based in Harrison, N.J. It
specializes in household organization and storage items such
as cedar hangers, stackable shelves, and wire carts, with
prices ranging from $1.79 for a pickle-picker to a high of
$40 for a pasta maker.
   Demand for its products was so strong that the company has
added 74 stores in the current fiscal year that ends Jan. 25,
for a total of 438, and it plans to add 100 in the new fiscal
year. Sales growth for the fiscal year now ending is expected
to climb 24% to about $234 million, though sales at stores
open for more than one year gained a much more modest 1% to
2%, the company says.
   "This {1991} was a very basic year, with people buying
practical items," says Michael Anthony, general merchandise
manager. "In 1992, we expect more of the same."
   Kim Dandurand, president of a Sandpoint, Idaho,
wood-working company, Idaho Woodworks Inc., found out that
improving on an old stand-by can reap big returns. Aware of
the publicity surrounding cases of salmonella poisoning from
uncooked chicken, he redesigned the familiar kitchen cutting
board to allay consumer fears. One side is made of
polyethylene, which doesn't absorb juices and is thus less
likely than wood to give salmonella bacteria a foothold. The
other side is old-fashioned wood that can be used for cutting
vegetables and fruit.
   A carpenter, Mr. Dandurand says he just started selling
the board last spring but already has posted sales of $1
million.
   Another way to add a bit of glitz to ordinary housewares
is to attach a brand logo or familiar cartoon. "Licensing
helps to pull products through {the store}," says Terry
Crawford, president of Conimar Corp., an Ocala, Fla., maker
of kitchen stationery, placemats, coasters and paper
lunchbags. The items are sold through discounters and variety
stores for prices in the $2-to-$3 range -- still cheap but
about 10% more than they would fetch without familiar
imagery.
   Sales of such items as recipe cards with Corning patterns
and Pink Panther lunchbags were up more than those of
unlicensed items, he says. This year, he has increased the
number of his licensing agreements, adding Betty Crocker and
Pfaltzgraff patterns for kitchen items and Coca-Cola and the
Flintstones on lunchbags. Conimar's sales increased about 5%
last year to $8 million, including a 7% uptick in the fourth
quarter, Mr. Crawford says.
   Though consumers desire basic items now, small concerns
find that merchandising flair helps persuade thrifty shoppers
to part with their dollars. "The store must create the
theater so you are enticed by the product," maintains Norman
Glassberg, president of a Chicago firm that designs textiles
and candles. For instance, he supplies retailers with white
buckets for displaying his brightly colored citronella
torches, which are used outdoors for illumination and driving
away bugs. He says customers are more attracted to the
torches if they see them fanning out attractively from a
bucket, rather than stacked on a shelf.
   Mr. Glassberg is emphasizing affordable items, retailing
in the $2-to-$25 range. He says his company's sales jumped
15% last year.
   Even makers of upscale household items are getting on the
back-to-the-basics bandwagon. Midwest Tropical Inc., a
Lincolnwood, Ill., maker of unusually styled fish aquariums
this year aims to introduce a line selling for $100 to $200
-- less than half the average price of $500 that customers
pay for its standard models.
   At the same time, says Susan Burnett, a co-owner, Midwest
Tropical is moving to improve its aquariums. Among other
changes, she and her husband made the light switches on their
fish tanks more accessible and also widened the tanks' doors
to make it easier for owners to change filters.
   Sales shot up 22% last year to about $5.5 million, she
says. She expects a similar rise this year.
   Ms. Burnett says success isn't going to damp her marketing
efforts. "Instead of waiting for orders, we called catalog
retailers {last year} and said, `What can we do for you?'"
she says. For one of them, she supplied her own advertising
copy and photos.