International:
   World Wire
   ----
   Compiled by Richard L. Holman
German lawmakers are trying to resolve property disputes
that are hindering investment in the former East Germany.
   Parliament is reassessing a 1990 treaty with the former
Soviet Union that blocked previous owners from regaining
property expropriated by Moscow between 1945 and 1949. A new
bill could provide dispossessed owners first rights and
inexpensive, long-term financing to repurchase their land --
a third of eastern German territory, most of it divided into
farm and forestry cooperatives.
   Legislation could emerge this month to improve prospects
for property claims that a German court declared void last
April, though compensation was allowed.
   The government coalition parties also are seeking to
tighten laws on dispensation of properties seized by the
Third Reich between 1933 and 1945, and by East Germany after
1949. These properties, mostly factories, businesses and
homes, were covered by a March 1991 law that gave investors
priority over former owners, who would receive sale proceeds.
                                                                                                       

   FOREIGN FIRMS' CHINA EXPORTS
                                                                                                       

   Exports by overseas-funded enterprises in China last year
rose 32% to $10.3 billion from a year earlier, Beijing said.
China approved 12,000 such enterprises last year, bringing
the total to 40,000 with contracted foreign investment of $50
billion, though not all of these have begun operations.
Separately, labor unrest has disrupted some of the 16,000
Sino-foreign joint ventures, now 20% unionized. Beijing plans
to raise union membership to 50% within five years, despite
opposition by overseas partners.
                                                                                                       

   JORDAN REVIVES CURRENCY DEALERS
                                                                                                       

   Jordan's Parliament approved the reopening of
foreign-exchange houses, subject to central bank regulation,
effective immediately. In February 1989, Amman shut down
about 70 money-changing operations and confiscated their
capital, after accusing them of speculating on the national
currency, the dinar, and aiding its devaluation. The
three-year absence of the foreign-currency houses led to an
expansion of the black market, which Jordanian economists
said would be diminished by the new legislation.
                                                                                                       

   EBRD INVESTS IN CZECHOSLOVAKIA
                                                                                                       

   The European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
approved an investment of 24 million European currency units
($32.2 million) for a 15% stake in Czechoslovakia's largest
candy and cookie company. Domestic and foreign investment in
state-owned Cokoladovny, including help in its privatization
and restructuring, is expected to total 160.5 million ECUs. A
43% holding is being acquired by a joint venture of Nestle
S.A. of Switzerland and BSN S.A. of France.
                                                                                                       

   ERRORS EMBARRASS BRITAIN
                                                                                                       

   A watchdog agency said accounting errors cost taxpayers as
much as $8.8 million in overcharges for work done for British
government departments last year. In a plumbing bill, for
example, replacing a toilet cistern cost $11,300 and putting
new washers on taps ran to $1,730, the National Audit
Commission said, listing errors by the Property Services
Agency, which supplies and services government offices. The
list embarrassed the ruling Conservative Party, which prides
itself on good housekeeping.
                                                                                                       

   JAPAN'S TEXTILE BANKRUPTCIES
                                                                                                       

   The number of bankruptcies in Japan's textile industry
last year jumped 30% to 816 from a year earlier, the Credit
Research Institute of Nagoya said, citing the country's
slowing economy. Liabilities incurred by the failed
businesses rose 24% to 335.5 billion yen ($2.7 billion).
                                                                                                       

   AUSTRALIA'S RESUSCITATION BID
                                                                                                       

   Australia backtracked on its much-touted recovery hopes,
conceding its economy has been even weaker than government
data indicated, and reducing its growth projections.
   In what was heralded as the first step in pumping some
life into the fight against the severe recession, the central
bank cut interest rates, the 11th easing of monetary policy
since January 1990.
   The government sharply shaved its August forecast of 1.5%
economic growth in the year ending June 30, saying it now
expects a flat performance; a year earlier, the economy
contracted 0.9%. Australia's new treasurer, John Dawkins,
warned that "the recovery will be starting later from a lower
base."
   Mr. Dawkins blamed the slower-than-anticipated recovery on
a drought that has hurt agricultural production and on "the
softer international economic outlook, as well as the
pervasive lack of business confidence over recent months"
that has damped business investment. But the government
expects economic boosts from increases in housing
construction, nonfarm inventories and consumer spending.
                                                                                                       

   POSTSCRIPTS . . .
                                                                                                       

   France plans to amend its labor laws to specify sexual
harassment of employees by their bosses and make prosecution
easier. A recent Louis Harris opinion poll found that 21% of
French employees had been harassed sexually in the workplace
or witnessed such incidents, which last year were made
criminal offenses punishable by as long as a year in prison.
. . . Organized crime in Italy pulls in about $17 billion a
year, with drug-running and milking of public contracts the
most profitable areas, a survey by the government-funded
Censis social statistics agency found. Other growth areas are
extortion and illegal gambling.