Pacific Enterprise Plans Sale of Units,
   Ends Payout, Posts Big 4th-Period Loss
   ----
   By Frederick Rose
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Pacific Enterprises said it plans to sell its Pacific
Enterprises Oil Co. and five retail store chains that are
part of its Thrifty Corp. operations. The company said it
will retain for the moment its 618-store Thrifty Drug Store
chain, which analysts say accounts for about two-thirds of
the company's retail sales.
   With its announcement yesterday, Pacific Enterprises all
but ended an ill-starred diversification strategy. The parent
company of Southern California Gas Co., one of the nation's
largest natural gas utilities, started in the mid-1980s to
widen its business into nonregulated areas. In the course of
a few years, it invested well over $1 billion in cash and its
own stock in the purchase and enhancement of half a dozen
retailing operations and in oil and gas, only to have those
business produce a string of losses.
   The company said yesterday that Southern California Gas
had an operating profit of $62 million in the latest quarter,
an 8.8% increase from $57 million a year earlier. However, it
cautioned that results from the utility, currently its only
profitable business, may be somewhat reduced in 1992 because
of a regulatory ruling reducing the company's authorized
return on equity to 12.65% from 13%.
   Moreover, the company said it doesn't expect its
loss-plagued retailing operations to produce a profit until
the fourth quarter of 1992.
   While Pacific Enterprises said it plans for the moment to
retain Thrifty Drug Stores, it left the door wide open for
the chain's eventual sale. Among other things, the company
said it intends to focus on its natural gas utility
operations, leaving little apparent room for the troubled
drug store chain in the long run.
   Analysts speculated that Pacific Enterprises assertion
that it will retain the Thrifty Drug Stores may in part be
related to accounting rules, which would require the parent
company to write down the properties immediately, with
potentially damaging results to the parent company's balance
sheet.
   For all of 1991, Pacific Enterprises posted a net of $88
million, or $1.45 a share, compared with a year-earlier net
loss of $59 million, or $1.09 a share. The latest year
includes the $250 million in one-time charges, partially
offset by one-time gains of $13 million from the sale of oil
properties and $15 million from a sale of the gas utility's
former head office. The year-earlier losses include $275
million of one-time charges in retail and petroleum
operations. Revenue slid 4.6% to $6.6 billion from $6.92
billion.
   The company's decision to suspend its common stock
dividend indefinitely follows a cut last June in the
quarterly dividend to 44 cents a share from 87 cents. Pacific
Enterprises left open when a payout might be resumed,
although it hinted that it could follow the sale of the
operations on the block and any reversal in the continuing
losses of its Thrifty Drug Stores.
   "We don't have any specific schedule as to when we would
bring it back," said Willis B. Wood, president and chief
executive officer, in an interview. Mr. Wood said the
dividend was eliminated "to give financial flexibility" while
negotiating the sale of operations.
   Pacific Enterprises didn't say how much it expects to get
for the operations, but said it will use the proceeds to
reduce debt. At Sept. 30, the company had long-term debt of
$1.71 billion and current liabilities of $1.38 billion. The
latest loss will reduce shareholder equity, which at Sept. 30
totaled $1.92 billion.
   One-time charges for the fourth quarter include a
write-down of oil and gas properties of $132 million, a $110
million provision for prospective losses on the sale of
retailing operations, and an $8 million charge for effects of
restructuring the parent company.
   However, Mr. Wood cautioned, additional charges may be
needed depending on the eventual proceeds from sales of the
operations. The charges also don't include any provision for
losses for a possible sale of Thrifty Drug Stores.
   Mr. Wood said that the holding company "will be watching
very carefully" Thrifty Drug Store's turnaround efforts,
adding that "we are beginning to see some strong signs of
improvement."
   However, analysts have grown cautious about turnaround
predictions for Thrifty Drug. Pacific Enterprises has for
some years promised profits that haven't emerged. In 1991,
for instance, the company forecast profits early on, only to
have to recant as retailing operations produced their widest
losses ever. "I can understand the skepticism," Mr. Wood said
yesterday.
   Retailing operations that Pacific Enterprises plans to
sell include about 120 Pay'n Save Drug Stores and about 40
Bi-Mart membership discount stores, both in the Pacific
Northwest. Also to be sold are about 260 sporting goods
stores operating under the names Big 5, Gart Brothers, and MC
Stores.
   Pacific Enterprises Oil Co., also up for sale, has already
had major chunks sold off in recent months, including some
domestic producing properties and a stake in the Dutch sector
of the North Sea.