Airlines Face
   Daunting Issues
   In Going Global
   ---
   Officials Say Hurdles Include
   Antiquated Regulations,
   Deficient Infrastructure
   ----
   By Brian Coleman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Among the toughest and most controversial hurdles is the
ownership structure of airlines. "So long as airlines
continue to be owned by governments . . . there will be
barriers to competition," British Airways' director of
marketing and operations, Robert Ayling, told the gathering,
hosted by the Economist Conferences.
   The airline industry, perhaps more than any other, is
perceived as transcending borders, yet the business remains
largely defined by national boundaries. Flag carriers --
airlines owned at least partly by governments -- remain the
norm. Even countries without flag carriers have airlines that
evoke national images: British Airways or AMR Corp.'s
American Airlines, for example.
   That makes mergers, acquisitions or simple bankruptcy a
question of politics as well as business. "Every single
decision of the government is taken for political motives,"
Mr. Ayling said.
   As a result, airlines may face a dynamic and increasingly
global market, but are left with a static structure.
   "The airline industry needs to be able to restructure, for
example in response to the reshaping of markets and
competitive opportunities brought by liberalization," said
David Moss, president of the European Civil Aviation
Conference.
   Compounding the ownership problem is the current
international regulatory system. Meeting in Chicago in 1944,
governments left one another to develop their own aviation
policy rather than agree to a multilateral approach. The
result has been to leave international aviation policy to a
complex web of bilateral negotiations between governments
arguing on behalf of their national carrier. In fact,
aviation treaties between states specify the carrier that may
fly a particular route.
   With so many governments controlling the national carrier
and a nation-by-nation regulatory process, airline policy
resembles an extension of foreign policy itself. But airlines
seeking to expand find they are slowed by government
involvement.
   "The realities of the marketplace are exposing the
shortcomings of the bilateral system," said Cheong Choong
Kong, managing director of Singapore Airlines. "There are
growing signs that the bilateral system is beginning to choke
development," for example, hampering large carriers's ability
to capitalize on efficiencies of scale. The solution offered
by Mr. Cheong and other airline officials is creation of a
multilateral regulatory system -- a miniature version of the
General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade.
   "We must recognize that the airline industry is no
different from other industries," said Judith Trent, managing
director of Global Aviation Associates and former assistant
secretary for the U.S. Department of Transportation. "As a
result, regulatory structures must change."
   But Hans Raben, adviser for international policy to the
Dutch Ministry of Transport, warned that while such proposals
seem to be gaining support, "it is far from clear where they
will lead."
   Whether or not governments sort out the regulatory
quagmire, airlines face the question of how to fund the
massive investments necessary to offer a global transport
service.
   Alastair Pugh, air transport consultant for Goldman Sachs
International Ltd., estimates the world's airlines will need
to spend $500 billion by the year 2000 -- double what they
spent in the 1980s. Most of that money -- $400 billion-will
be for aircraft purchases or modernizations. But airlines
themselves probably can fund only $200 billion of that. The
rest must come from governments or outside investors.
   "The money demanded for the next 10 years is likely to
overrun supplies," Mr. Pugh said. "The 1990s are not like the
1980s." He predicted the result will be a growing trend
toward megacarriers able to take advantages of cost
efficiencies and their status as good credit risks.
   Not everyone agreed. Richard Branson, chairman of Virgin
Atlantic Airways, said only small carriers will be able to
offer the personalized service sought by many customers. "I
don't think there is a need for the megacarriers," he said.
   But small carriers will have to be versatile. Said Herbert
Bammer, Austrian Airlines chief executive for marketing and
sales, "The survival of the small ones will depend on being
fit and fast."
   A final challenge facing small and large carriers alike
will be inadequate infrastructure. Limited airport and air
traffic control facilities will curb the flexibility and
growth of tomorrow's global carriers. Last June, for example,
air traffic delays were worse than the year before-despite
the damping effects of the recession, said John Meredith,
senior director of the International Air Transport
Association's Infrastructure Action Group.
   Failing to solve this problem, airline officials said,
could prove more damaging than the other obstacles.
"Infrastructure is the single largest inhibitor to a
transnational airline industry," Mr. Ayling said.