Taiwan Firms
   Push to Be First
   In GDR Market
   ---
   Global Depositary Receipts
   Prepared for China Steel,
   President Enterprises
   ----
   By Jeremy Mark
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Taiwanese GDRs would be receipts for shares held by
custodians in Taiwan but listed and traded on European or
U.S. stock markets. Until now, foreign investors have been
able to invest in Taiwan shares either indirectly through
funds that are empowered to buy local stocks, and a few
Eurobond issues; or directly in the Taipei market under the
country's cumbersome market-opening regulations.
   Investment banks have been selected to assemble both GDR
issues, and brokers say that foreigners who of late have been
prevented by Taiwan's regulators from investing directly in
the local market are very interested in the sales.
   All that remains is for the Ministry of Finance and the
Central Bank of China to agree on the rules that will govern
GDRs. Earlier this month, Minister of Finance Wang
Chien-hsien signed off on draft regulations that have been
delayed for months by lengthy government deliberations.
Observers say it isn't clear whether the rules will pass the
central bank's scrutiny without problems. Since the beginning
of the year, the monetary authorities have been taking a
hard-line stance on direct foreign investment in the Taiwan
market because of concerns about the impact of capital flows
into the country on the appreciating New Taiwan dollar.
   In light of this policy, investment bankers expect the
final regulations governing GDRs to contain provisions
restricting the conversion into local currency of funds
raised on foreign markets. "I don't think the central bank
will hold up the GDRs," says Jeffrey Toder, an economist with
Jardine Fleming Taiwan Ltd. "But there will be some form of
formal restriction on what they can do with the funds."
   Consequently, GDR issues are likely to be restricted to
companies that can demonstrate that they have legitimate
foreign-currency needs. For example, the President
Enterprises issue, which is expected to be $100 million and
to be put together by Credit Suisse First Boston Ltd. and
Jardine Fleming, is aimed at helping the company and its
subsidiaries to reduce their foreign-currency debts.
   The China Steel issue, which is expected to amount to
between $350 million and $400 million, is a different type of
transaction. It is part of the government's effort to raise
funds through the privatization of state-owned companies, and
the GDR issue would represent the first time that foreigners
will be targeted in that effort. Altogether, the Ministry of
Economic Affairs, which owns about 90% of China Steel, is
selling 15% of the company's shares. This will be parceled
into 360 million shares for the GDR, and 680 million for sale
on the Taiwan market. The underwriting price of the foreign
issue hasn't been set yet.
   Unlike President Enterprises, China Steel will obtain no
benefits from its GDR. All revenue raised by the domestic and
foreign share issues will go into government coffers. But the
Ministry of Economic Affairs has indicated that the
foreign-exchange proceeds will be used to make foreign
purchases for infrastructure projects under the country's Six
Year Plan.
   The China Steel issue will involve a global syndicate,
with tranches likely to be put aside for the U.S., Europe,
Japan and Southeast Asia. A spokesman for the Ministry of
Economic Affairs said that Goldman, Sachs  Co. has been
awarded the mandate to put together the issue and assemble
the syndicate. That mandate is regarded by investment bankers
as a major coup for Goldman Sachs, which beat Lehman Brothers
in a drawn-out competition that was supposed to be concluded
last November. Goldman Sachs also is one of the consultants
to the China Steel team that is evaluating for the government
Taiwan Aerospace Corp.'s preliminary agreement to acquire as
much as 40% of McDonnell Douglas Corp.'s commercial-aircraft
division.
   Investment bankers say that an issue the size of China
Steel's could prove to be a tough sale to institutional
investors. "This kind of basic steel company is not a
favorite among institutional investors in Western countries,"
one investment banker says. "The Japanese probably will be
interested, but to have a successful issue, {Goldman} will
have to generate interest out of the U.S. and Europe. The
issue will not sell itself."
   Market analysts say that President Enterprises is eager to
go to market first to avoid the backwash of the China Steel
issue. A leading blue-chip stock that has been favored by
foreign investors who already are in the Taiwan market,
President Enterprises is regarded as a much easier sale.
   But as long as institutional investors feel they are being
shut out of the Taiwan market by the regulators -- almost all
applications to enter the market have been turned down or
delayed in recent months -- both GDRs should prove
attractive. "Investors would prefer to go into the market
directly," a foreign broker says, "but they've been given no
choice by the SEC and central bank, and must go for
convertible bonds and GDRs to gain the exposure they want in
Taiwan."