Letters to the Editor:
   Broken Word: Another Exxon Disaster
"Poor Exxon," as you put it, broke its written commitment
following the Valdez disaster, as a crude public-relations
and business measure, according to its own testimony at the
trial. It did so by preventing those who had ever been to
rehab or an Alcoholics Anonymous meeting from serving in
"safety-sensitive" positions, regardless of their records of
safety or service.
   You distorted the facts by choosing to ignore:
   -- this written commitment to Exxon's employees;
   -- Theodore Ellenwood's unblemished 20-year record for
safety and performance. For the year of his treatment -- 1988
-- Exxon awarded him, along with his shipmates on the
Wilmington, the Fleet Manager's Award for best-performing and
safest ship in the fleet; and the Million Man-Hour Award, for
an unprecedented million such hours without a reportable
injury, accident or spill. Exxon Shipping Co. was awarded yet
another prestigious award for this ship's performance and
safety by the American Bureau of Shipping. Exxon based its
discharge of Mr. Ellenwood solely on the fact he'd had
treatment, ignoring his exemplary record;
   -- the fact that Exxon Shipping's own medical department
advised the company that its 1989 policy was an unsafe way to
proceed since it would place active "closet" alcoholics into
safety-sensitive positions. Expert testimony to this effect,
including that of Exxon's hired expert, was uncontroverted.
Exxon testified that despite searching diligently in 1989, it
could find no other company in America with the draconian
policy ultimately enacted by Exxon;
   -- the fact that Exxon's hired psychiatrist opined that
Mr. Ellenwood is not now an alcoholic, nor has he ever been
one. Whether he is or not, he hasn't consumed alcohol since
March 12, 1988. A man who has not drunk alcohol for
two-and-one-half years (at the time he was fired) is not a
man with an alcohol problem;
   -- perhaps most significantly, the fact that Exxon
Shipping testified at the trial that the Valdez incident did
not have anything to do with the alleged use of alcohol.
Exxon punished those who sought treatment for public
relations, not for safety. This fact is reiterated in Exxon's
suit against Sperry Marine Inc., which describes a defective
steering mechanism as the cause of the accident, and asks our
legal system to force Sperry to reimburse Exxon for all
damages caused by the Valdez (Wall Street Journal, Oct. 31,
1991). Apparently Exxon does not share your disdain for our
system of justice. You don't begrudge Exxon this forum for
legal recourse after a full airing of the facts. Nor do you
criticize Exxon's lawyers for serving the cause of their
injured client.
   Yes, "poor Exxon" (post-Valdez assets of $72 billion,
according to the Sept. 20, 1991, Wall Street Journal,) has
been sued for fouling the waters. If Exxon was not at fault,
perhaps a jury will hold Sperry liable after hearing the
facts. And yes, Exxon Shipping has been held liable (after
full disclosure at the trial of facts you ignore), for
breaking its written commitment to a safe, honest and
talented chief engineer.
   "Only in America," as you put it, can a decent man take on
the biggest company in the country for breaking its word, and
receive justice. If our system of justice, available to Exxon
and Mr. Ellenwood alike, is injured by distortions such as
those upon which you base your editorial, no one will be
served.
   Daniel W. Bates
   Peter Bennett
   Portland, Maine