International:
   Politics, Recession Push Finland to EC
   ----
   By Stephen D. Moore
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
But now, caution is a luxury Finland can't afford. The
collapse of the Soviet Union, Finland's deepest recession
since the 1930s and the accelerating pace of European
integration have combined to send Finland hurtling toward a
closer relationship with the rest of Europe.
   Under a timetable approved late last week by the
center-right government and by President Mauno Koivisto,
Finland is almost certain to apply soon for full membership
in the European Community. The expected Finnish application
would be the latest in a rush to join by the members of the
European Free Trade Association, which, in addition to
Finland, includes Norway, Sweden, Iceland, Austria,
Switzerland and Liechtenstein. The EC and EFTA had
participated in talks to make it possible for the seven EFTA
countries to take part in the EC's single market.
   But EFTA members Austria and Sweden have already applied
for full EC membership; others are likely to follow. Their
applications are motivated partly by fears that the EC-EFTA
accord won't give EFTA members a real say in EC decisions.
   Finland's cabinet still hasn't decided whether to attach
any special conditions to its application. But in a recent
interview, Premier Esko Aho said he is "quite optimistic
we'll agree within the cabinet about those terms by the end
of this month and then be able to recommend to parliament
that Finland should apply for full EC membership," perhaps by
mid-March.
   It amounts to a national about-face, one that many Finns
fear has come with reckless haste. "If you had asked me for a
prediction a year ago when we started this process, I'd have
said the odds were maybe two-to-one that we'd stay outside
the EC," Mr. Aho acknowledges. "I'm still not saying Finland
will be able to meet requirements the EC imposes without any
problems. But now I can say the odds are two-to-one in favor
of us eventually becoming a member."
   The Soviet Union's collapse was clearly a precondition.
Finnish leaders, wary of the old "Finlandization" label,
which assumed that Finland never made a move without Moscow's
blessing, play down any direct linkage. Mr. Aho concedes:
"It's quite natural that political and economic changes in
regions close to us have affected Finnish public opinion, and
made conditions for EC membership more favorable."
   Sweden and Austria's applications were almost as
important. "Since Sweden is our biggest trading partner, as
well as biggest industrial rival, we're doomed to stick
together," says Ulf Sundqvist, leader of Finland's biggest
opposition party, the Social Democrats. But many Finns are
convinced that economic worries, not foreign-policy
considerations, tipped the balance in favor of approaching
the EC.
   "This has become mainly an economic issue," says Mr.
Sundqvist. Finland's crippled economy "is what made EC
membership more relevant than we could ever imagine before.
In a nutshell, joining the EC is all about whether or not we
can maintain our current standard of living."
   Indeed, although Finland's gross national product per
capita still ranks 11th in the world -- the same as Belgium's
-- the nation's economy has gone into a tailspin. From a
heady 5.4% growth rate in 1988 and 1989, Finnish GNP went
flat in 1990 and then plunged 6.2% last year. Economists
project a further 1% decline this year. GNP is the sum value
of all goods and services produced by a country. Unemployment
is expected to hit a seasonal peak of 15% by the end of the
winter, up from about 4.2% just 14 months ago.
   "What does 6.2% negative economic growth mean?" asks
Bjoern Wahlroos, an executive vice president at Union Bank of
Finland. "Almost all of it came out of the corporate sector
-- so you've wiped out equity of roughly 35 billion markkaa
($8.22 billion), something on the order of half the market
capitalization of the Helsinki Stock Exchange."
   That reflects the collapse of the Soviet economy, on which
a cozy chunk of Finland's foreign trade depended. "The loss
of Russian trade and the diminished value of forest products,
Finland's only natural asset, can be compared to what happens
in Texas if the price of crude falls 40%," observes Casimir
Ehrnrooth, chairman of pulp and paper giant Kymmene Oy.
   Finland's economic woes reached crisis proportions in
November, when Mr. Aho's cabinet and the central bank
capitulated to a massive wave of currency speculation and
devalued the markka 12.3%. Amid such economic gloom, the idea
of EC membership appears to offer a lifeline.
   A recent study commissioned by the Finnish Parliament
projected that joining the EC would boost GNP 7.7%, create
100,000 jobs, slash consumer prices 20% and accelerate
overdue economic restructuring during the first decade of
membership, compared with what the proposed ECEFTA accord
would have produced.
   Still, Finnish farmers are furious about the expected
application, which is certain to slash their lofty state
subsidies. Others fear a loss of sovereignty. Indeed, recent
public opinion polls suggest that support for joining the EC
is slipping. A survey last week by Finland's biggest daily
newspaper showed support at 51%, down from 65% last summer.
   Protests will intensify once negotiations get under way,
vows Hilkka Pietilae, a Helsinki nutritionist who heads
Finland's biggest anti-EC group. Others expect the public to
support the membership application as potential economic
benefits become better understood.
   But even EC supporters worry that the government's
portrayal of EC membership as an economic panacea could
backfire. No sign of recovery is expected until next year,
these analysts argue, and disappointed expectations could sap
support for the EC. In addition, farmers represent the
backbone of Mr. Aho's Center Party. Some politicians fear
that concessions he may seek for Finnish farmers would be
unacceptable to the EC.
   Mr. Ehrnrooth, the Kymmene chairman, adds, "Finland is
going to have to pay a hell of a high price {to join the EC}.
And I have a feeling that the price of the ticket will
multiply. . .; they'll find a way of soaking the rich new
members."
   Yet Mr. Ehrnrooth sees little alternative. "Unless we
declare ourselves Europeans. . . we could just as well close
our borders and go back to hunting and fishing. . . "