Germanium Harvest
   Is Talk of the Town
   In Carthage, Tenn.
   ---
   It's a Rare Mineral, Actually,
   And Worth Quite a Lot;
   Lore of Gore Ore War
   ----
   By Monica Langley
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The mush was a mineral called germanium, which, as any
Carthaginian can now tell you, is a critical ore with
significant and increasing high-technology uses in computers,
fiber optics and infrared night-vision devices, among other
things. The presence of such a valuable ore was big news in a
town that lives largely on royalties from mineral leases on
its farmland. Bigger news was that Carthage, long mined for
its zinc and cadmium, happens to sit on what may be the
richest germanium deposit in North America. And bigger news
still was that the local mining company, Union Zinc Inc.,
wasn't paying townsfolk a penny in royalties for the
germanium it was digging out from beneath their land.
   This is a company town, where Union Zinc is loved and
feared, so even after Mr. Grisham found the pond of mush,
things might never have gone beyond the muttering stage. But
this is also the home of Albert Gore Sr., the former U.S.
senator, director of Occidental Petroleum Corp., father of
the one-time presidential contender and owner of 255 acres of
germanium-enriched farmland. He and his wife, Pauline, don't
like the situation any better than their neighbors do, and
they have sued Union Zinc to collect payments. The case goes
to arbitration today. If the Gores win, it could mean
millions of dollars in additional royalties for the residents
of this riverside tobacco-farming community.
   "There's a lot of mixed emotions about suing the company,"
says Kenneth Lawrence, a recently retired restaurateur. Mr.
Lawrence's son works in the mine for $11 an hour, and his
restaurant business depended on miners, but he is also a
landowner who gets royalty payments on his mineral rights.
   There are mixed emotions at Union Zinc, too, about
tangling with the Gore family. "Gore could be president some
day," frets Richard Dendler, vice president of mining,
referring to Albert Gore Jr. The Democratic senator and his
wife, Tipper, own an 88-acre farm here and are also
plaintiffs in the suit.
   Union Zinc, a subsidiary of the Belgian company ACEC-Union
Miniere S.A., leases mineral rights from practically everyone
in Carthage and nearby Gordonsville, operating a labyrinthine
mine that stretches beneath both towns. Terms of the leases
call for Union Zinc to pay a 4% royalty on the value of
minerals it extracts.
   The company has been paying landowners royalties for zinc
and cadmium, but not for germanium. It argues that the leases
require it to pay royalties on the value of the minerals "at
the mill," or in their freshly mined state. Because germanium
must be extracted from the raw zinc ore to have any market
value, the company says it isn't obligated to pay royalties
on it. "The presence or absence of germanium is not material"
to the royalty calculation, says Robert S. Marquis, an
attorney for Union Zinc.
   But the Gores' lawyer, Robert J. Walker, says what is
immaterial is the extra processing required to extract the
germanium. He argues that the presence of germanium makes the
ore inherently more valuable "at the mill." "Would anyone
argue that a truckload of zinc ore with gold nuggets in it
isn't more valuable than a truckload of zinc ore without gold
nuggets?" he asks. "You still have to extract it and polish
it, but it still has value." He says his clients would be
paid 60% more than their current royalties if germanium were
included in the royalty calculation.
   The argument was ignited after Mr. Grisham found the pond
and told his wife Betty Louise about it, who told Pauline
Gore, who told Albert Sr., who went to Washington to visit
Albert Jr. and stopped off at the Library of Congress to read
up on germanium. "I became a student of germanium," says the
senior Mr. Gore, now 84 years old. "I found out that it is
designated as a strategic metal by the U.S. Defense
Department because of its critical uses in the defense
system."
   Soon all of Carthage was buzzing about germanium, a
grayish-white metal with semiconducting properties that has
sold for as much as $500 a pound in recent years. It was
first isolated in 1886 (by a German). It was used to make the
first transistor, in 1947. Scientists at IBM have used it
recently to double the speed of silicon-based transistors.
Germanium is being tested as an ingredient in solar cells to
power large satellites, and as part of a new fiber-optic
lighting system for automobiles. Some people put a form of
germanium under their tongues in the belief that it will cure
cancer, arthritis and migraine headaches.
   Union Zinc won't say how much germanium is in the ground,
but the U.S. Bureau of Mines says the mine contains the
largest reserve of germanium in the U.S.
   Johnny Wilkerson, owner of the local ShopRite grocery,
says with a laugh that he "got out the encyclopedia I bought
for the daughter. I read up on `geranium'." Mr. Wilkerson,
who owns 160 acres under which Union Zinc is mining, was able
to stop farming and buy his grocery store with the nearly
$30,000 in royalties he receives annually. "If germanium were
added to the minerals I'm paid for, I could start another
grocery store and get ready to retire," Mr. Wilkerson says.
   Now the town regularly follows the price of germanium. "I
read the business news or Metals Week to see quotes," says
Mr. Lawrence, who until last fall ran the Woodjammer
Restaurant here.
   Just across the highway from the Woodjammer, in the
corporate headquarters of Union Zinc, a sign reminds all who
enter that the company pays $762,000 annually in state and
local taxes, has a $9.1 million payroll and pays $1.7 million
in annual royalties to local landowners. Outside
headquarters, at the mine's main entrance, miners in overalls
and hard hats climb into a steel elevator cage and ride 120
stories down into the earth. At the bottom of the shaft they
jump into big dump trucks and ride off through the mine's 230
miles of tunnels to begin blasting.
   James Moore, general mine foreman, finds a section of rock
containing veins of 15% zinc, well above the average 3%
concentration in this rock. He shows the glimmering brown
streaks to his boss, Mr. Dendler, who -- noting their
location in the labyrinth -- happily exclaims, "This isn't
Gore ore]"
   The Gores signed their original mineral leases in 1969
with Occidental Minerals Corp., a unit of Occidental
Petroleum Co., when Albert Sr. was still in the U.S. Senate.
After he left office in 1971, Mr. Gore joined Occidental
Petroleum as an officer and director. Occidental sold the
mineral leases to Union Zinc in 1985.
   Mr. Gore's intimate understanding of the law and of mining
enabled him to take a litigious step ahead of his neighbors.
He sued Union Zinc in Smith County Chancery Court in
Carthage, but the judge ordered that the case go to
arbitration as required under terms of the lease.
   "No one has ever questioned the company," says Charles
McKinney, a Carthage resident who is a farmer by day and a
lawyer by night. "Everyone is waiting to see what happens
with the Gores' lawsuit." Mr. McKinney himself has filed a
suit against Union Zinc over germanium royalties, and is
seeking to have it declared a class action on behalf of some
200 landowners. But he says that filing the suit was
"strictly a business decision" and that "we couldn't ask for
a better corporate neighbor." (That suit is on hold pending
the outcome of the Gore arbitration.)
   Still, there are signs that Carthaginians have become
emboldened by the germanium affair. There is talk of pressing
for royalties on other rocks that come out of this ground:
the crystals of calcite, fluorite and sphalerite that Union
Zinc occasionally stumbles across and sells to collectors.
Buyers come from around the world to bid for the crystals,
which can cost thousands of dollars each.
   Union Zinc says it doesn't owe landowners a royalty on the
crystals because removing them costs more than the prices for
which they are sold. But Mrs. Gore Sr. isn't so sure. "These
rocks are peanuts compared to the germanium for which we're
not being paid, but we want our fair share," she says. "It's
the principle. We would rather leave the rocks, the
germanium, everything in the ground for our grandchildren
than to give it away for nothing."