ATT Unionists
   Seek Greater Role
   In Management
   ----
   By Kathleen Deveny
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
In Washington, a CWA spokesman said the plant-closing
resolution is designed to focus on "what effect a closing has
on the community. Normally it is a business decision and the
effect on employees, the community and the tax base doesn't
enter into the picture."
   The resolution was submitted by James Irvine, vice
president of the CWA's communications and technology unit,
which represents about 100,000 ATT employees. The number is
half what it was when the Bell operating companies were
separated from ATT in 1984.
   The second resolution, seeking to add a union member to
the ATT board, was submitted by Gerald Souder, president of
CWA Local 4351 in Cincinnati.
   The CWA spokesman conceded that the latter proposal was
unlikely to pass, but as far as the plant closings issue,
"you never know. It's the emotion of the times, especially
with the cutbacks, not only at ATT but all over the
country."
   ATT recommended that shareholders vote against both
proposals, arguing that the company is already addressing the
difficulties involved in downsizing and that the election of
a union director wouldn't benefit all shareholders.
   The company also said in the proxy that the cash
compensation of Robert E. Allen, ATT's chairman and chief
executive officer, increased about 2% to $2.1 million. A
company spokesman said Mr. Allen's pay from certain
longer-term incentive programs increased 24%, to $673,366
from $543,018.
   The company said cash compensation of Randall L. Tobias,
vice chairman, increased 3.6% to $1.13 million. Cash
compensation of Victor A. Pelson, group executive of
communications services, increased 9% to $815,400.
   ATT also asked holders to increase the number of
authorized common shares to two billion from 1.5 billion. The
company currently has 1.31 billion shares of common
outstanding.
   At least one shareholder made a proposal that the company
could endorse. It asked that the company endeavor to have
omitted from annual meetings and proxy statements any
shareholder proposals that aren't directly related to the
business of ATT and are "designed to give publicity to
hate-mongering or controversial issues." ATT directors urged
support of the anti-proposal proposal.