PERSONAL TECHNOLOGY
   ----
   By Walter S. Mossberg
Of Hard Copy
                                                                                                       

   LET'S SUPPOSE you're writing a report on your computer,
and you come to a point where you need to enter a dozen
paragraphs from a printed document. Wouldn't it be great if,
instead of typing in all that text, you could wave a sort of
magic wand over it and have it show up on your screen, just
where you want it?
   You can. The Typist, a handheld device that costs under
$500, will rapidly copy printed text directly into an
electronic document in your computer, at whatever point you
desire.
   This gadget is ready to work at the touch of a button,
without making you move out of your favorite word processor,
spreadsheet or database program. You just roll the Typist
over the printed page, and the words or numbers pour onto
your screen at the cursor, as if keyed in by an invisible
assistant.
   Made by Caere, Los Gatos, Calif., the Typist works with
both IBM-compatible computers and Apple's Macintosh models;
on IBM-compatibles it can function with both regular programs
and those that run under Microsoft's Windows software system.
   To understand why the Typist is noteworthy, a bit of
background about scanners is in order. Best described as
copying machines for computers, scanners read paper documents
-- or "hard copy" -- and convert their text to electronic
form for use on PC screens. Scanners come in two types:
flatbed machines that scan pages whole, and hand-held models,
including the Typist, that read pages a portion at a time.
   But personal-computer owners most often use scanners for
getting pictures, not text, into computers. That's because
the raw electronic version of whatever the devices scan
amounts to a graphic, or picture. Scanned text initially is
just a snapshot of the words and numbers on the paper, and
can't be edited.
                                                                                                       

   TO TURN the snapshot into fodder for your word processor,
you usually must go through two or three steps, using
scanning software, then optical character recognition, or
OCR, software, which tries to convert the picture of the text
into real words and numbers. The final step is loading the
resulting file into your word processing program.
   The Typist, in contrast, is tailored for text. It
compresses all these steps into a single process that can be
carried out while your word processing program is running.
You just position the Typist on the paper and push the
button, and the computer switches into scanning mode.
   After you roll the Typist over the desired text and
release the button, a window appears on screen showing that
the scanner's built-in OCR software is translating the
picture of the text into electronic words and numbers. Then
the device "types" the text into your on-screen document.
   Still, the Typist isn't for everyone. For one thing, using
it requires a hefty computer: an IBM-compatible with at least
a 386 processor chip and four megabytes of memory, or a
Macintosh with the same relatively large memory. And it costs
up to twice as much as a routine hand-held scanner: about
$400 at discount stores or by mail order for the
IBM-compatible model, and about $90 more (because an external
connection box is required) for the Macintosh model.
   Moreover, using the Typist isn't always as effortless as
it is designed to be. The machine's scanning process depends
on settings for brightness and a few other factors displayed
in a box on the screen. I found trial and error is necessary
to get these settings just right so the Typist scans in text
with few enough errors to make the process quicker than
manual typing.
                                                                                                       

   IT ALSO takes practice to learn how to roll the Typist
smoothly over a page. And some kinds of text -- including
faxes and newspaper stock tables -- were so tiny or varied in
shading that they wouldn't scan in correctly.
   Nevertheless, in testing a dozen different documents, I
found the Typist able to read in hundreds of words at a time
with few characters missed or garbled. After some practice, I
could accurately scan portions of articles from this
newspaper and others directly into a variety of
wordprocessing programs. I scanned excerpts from typed
reports as well as printed government and business documents.
Most scans took only a few minutes, some just seconds.
   Though the Typist, like all hand-held scanners, can read
in only part of a page at a time, it is able to merge partial
scans and eliminate any overlap. It can also scan graphics
instead of text, and Caere recently beefed up the unit's
built-in graphics software for altering scanned artwork (to
stress this, it calls the latest version Typist Plus
Graphics).
   If you need to copy large volumes of text into your
computer, you may be better off with flatbed scanners, though
they cost about twice as much as the Typist and require the
use of separate OCR software. If the printed matter you copy
varies widely in quality and type, or is often blurry or
tiny, you might find the Typist too frustrating to use
regularly.
   But if you must often retype modest sections of text from
the same kinds of printed publications, the Typist can vastly
speed your work and help you get the most from your computer.