Heard on the Street:
   Big Advertisers Could Face Reduced Profits
   If Proposed Accounting Rule Wins Approval
   ----
   By Lee Berton
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Seeking to impose more uniformity on corporate treatment
of ad costs, a task force of the American Institute of
Certified Public Accountants issued a final rule draft last
month. If the rule passes muster with the Financial
Accounting Standards Board later this year and takes effect,
as seems likely, it "could sharply lower or change the
profits of some advertisers who currently defer certain ad
costs," says Andrew Finger, a Cleveland accountant and a
member of the task force.
   The new rule would force companies to deduct ad costs
either when they're first incurred, or when the first in a
series of ads is run.
   Accountants say many big advertisers would be affected,
including Procter  Gamble, the biggest U.S. advertiser with
$2.3 billion in 1990 outlays; Sears Roebuck, which spent $1.5
billion; and McDonald's, which shelled out more than $760
million.
   Under current accounting rules, a company has a choice: it
can deduct advertising outlays as they're spent, which
immediately lowers profits. Or, if the company can show a
long-term benefit from advertising, it can defer such costs,
"capitalizing" them as an asset on the balance sheet, and
delaying the impact on earnings.
   Corporations have taken such diverse tacks in deducting or
deferring advertising costs that the Securities and Exchange
Commission a while back urged accountants to tighten the
rules and tell companies exactly how and when to deduct ad
costs from profits.
   Even without prodding from the proposed rule, sneaker
maker L.A. Gear, a big advertiser, early last year stopped
deferring advertising and promotional costs of more than $8.3
million, and immediately deducted them after customers'
unpaid bills more than doubled in a four-month period. A
sharp sales drop, combined with the change in accounting
policy, caused L.A. Gear to report a loss of almost $28
million for the nine months ended Aug. 31, 1991, compared
with year-earlier profit of $38.4 million, or $1.91 a share.
   Frank Podbelsek, an analyst with Gruntal, says that
"deferring advertising costs of such magnitude is a
questionable practice, to say the least." And Nike -- an
athletic-shoe competitor that says it deducts all ad costs
immediately -- calls ad-cost deferral "a bogus exercise."
   At Procter  Gamble, a spokesman concedes that the new
accounting rule could pare profits in certain quarters, but
declines to give details. PG generally allocates advertising
costs based on the number of cases of products it ships,
financial analysts say. "If we run a long ad campaign for
soap or bleach," the spokesman says, "we sometimes defer some
ad costs, and capitalize them as assets on our balance sheet
if we anticipate sales benefits from the campaign down the
road."
   Sears is highly secretive about outlays for its catalog,
which generates $3.5 billion in annual sales. But when asked
about a $518 million "prepaid expense and deferred charge" on
its balance sheet for 1990, the huge retailer says that about
$100 million of the figure -- mainly for the catalog --
consists of ad costs whose impact on profit has been
deferred. "These costs are paid but aren't charged against
profits" yet, says a Sears spokesman, who declines to comment
on how the accounting proposal might affect the company.
   A spokesman for McDonald's says that "a small portion" of
the $108 million in prepaid expenses and other current assets
on its balance sheet for 1990 is deferred production costs
for certain commercials and creative development. He declines
to give more details. "From our analysis of an early draft of
the accounting rule, we feel it will ultimately have a
nonmaterial effect on McDonald's financial results," the
spokesman says.
   For companies that defer ad costs, the new accounting rule
will lower profits. And financial analysts note that the rule
could force some companies to recognize profits earlier than
they might like. For example, Philip Morris, with about $2.2
billion spent on advertising in 1990, accrued $1.4 billion in
marketing costs on the liability side of its balance sheet
for 1990.
   "This means that Philip Morris is deducting ad costs it
hasn't yet paid to help smooth out profits from year to
year," says Marc Cohen, an analyst with Sanford C. Bernstein.
"I call such amounts `hidden earnings' for future years when
financial results aren't as good as Philip Morris would
like," says Mr. Cohen. "Then, it could lower its ad-cost
deductions with this accrual."
   The institute's rule must be approved by the FASB, where
it's now being reviewed. If approved, it will have the same
force as rules of the FASB, the chief rulemaking body for
accountants, which derives its power from the SEC under U.S.
securities laws. The rule is slated to cover financial
results for periods starting Dec. 15 and after.