Bushwhacked:
   Buchanan's Strength
   In First Primary Test
   Is a Blow to President
   ---
   New Hampshire Democrats
   Hand Victory to Tsongas,
   With Clinton in Second
   ---
   Write-In for Cuomo Fizzles
   ----
   By James M. Perry and David Rogers
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
In the Democratic race, former Massachusetts Sen. Paul
Tsongas and Gov. Bill Clinton of Arkansas were running
34%-26%. Mr. Tsongas's success validates his claim to be
taken seriously as a contender for the Democratic nomination
but Mr. Clinton's finish ensures that he will continue. He
appeared to run well among core, working class Democratic
voters and his strength makes it vastly more difficult for
another major candidate to jump into the race.
   The other contenders, Sens. Bob Kerrey of Nebraska and Tom
Harkin of Iowa and former California Gov. Jerry Brown, were
all bunched far down the list. The write-in campaign for New
York Gov. Mario Cuomo appeared to have fizzled: Exit polls
indicated that he wasn't doing much better than activist
Ralph Nader, another write-in candidate.
   Even before the polls closed, Bush operatives were fanning
out to spread the word that any victory margin over Mr.
Buchanan would satisfy them. But such claims rang hollow. It
appeared the Mr. Buchanan would gain about the same
percentage of the vote as did Sen. Eugene McCarthy in 1968,
when President Lyndon Johnson's margin of victory as a
write-in candidate was so slim that he was ultimately driven
from the race.
   The last incumbent president to be so strongly challenged
in New Hampshire was Gerald Ford in 1976, and his victory by
less than two percentage points over a candidate far more
formidable than Mr. Buchanan, Ronald Reagan, foreshadowed
defeat in the fall.
   "We're very disappointed by these results," said Thomas
Rath, a Bush campaign adviser in Concord. "It indicates that
there's a lot to be done. Nothing can be taken for granted
from here on out."
   In a statement released by the White House last night, Mr.
Bush said he was "delighted" with the victory but
acknowledged the "election was far closer than many had
predicted."
   "I think the opponents on both sides reaped the harvest of
discontent with the pace of New Hampshire's economy. I
understand the message of dissatisfaction," Mr. Bush said.
"The message of tonight is that Americans are concerned about
the future. I have the right answers and I will take my case
to the voters in the next eight and a half months."
   For Republicans and Democrats alike, the New Hampshire
returns demonstrate the impact of the economy this year and
the alienation among voters toward Washington. Mr. Buchanan,
a TV commentator, political columnist and former White House
aide, recast himself as a rebel outsider and true protector
of his party's conservative heritage. He planted himself in
New Hampshire after announcing his candidacy only 10 weeks
ago and waged a whirlwind campaign that never failed to
remind voters that until he came "those people in Washington
behaved as if they did not care."
   In a final motorcade across the state, his speeches were
laced with references to New England's role in the American
Revolution two centuries ago. And his stump appeals melded
with an expensive, blistering television campaign that
painted Mr. Bush as conciliatory toward congressional
liberals and forgetful of those who first put him in the
White House.
   In his two-fisted style, Mr. Buchanan derided the Bush
forces as royalists routed by Yankee voters. "My friends, did
I not tell you we would make history," said the conservative.
"We're going to make more history. We are going to take our
party back from those who have walked away from us."
   "The thing that happened here is that Buchanan ran a damn
good campaign, and I respect him for it," said Hugh Gregg, a
former Republican New Hampshire governor and adviser to the
Bush campaign. "I know a good campaign when I see it, and
this was a very good campaign."
   Exit polls yesterday showed overwhelmingly that Buchanan
voters backed him for his message -- not his presidential
credentials. And his heavy expenditures in New Hampshire --
about $1.9 million, according to aides -- exhausted much of
the estimated $2.5 million his campaign has raised.
   Young Republican conservatives said the White House must
respond now by taking a more aggressive approach toward
Congress. But Mr. Buchanan's success points up what could be
a more lasting problem. Men clearly responded to the
muscular, "America first" appeal of the challenger, while the
White House's efforts to use Congress as its whipping-boy
proved less than effective.
   At one point yesterday, anxious Bush campaign staffers
sent a panicked message to field workers on phone banks to
call only women voters to the polls, and the pronounced
gender gap is expected to lead to tougher tactics by the
White House in the future.
   "We look forward to going South," said Charles Black, a
senior adviser to the president's campaign. He warned that
the Bush campaign -- which appeared disjointed and uncertain
in New Hampshire -- may adopt a harder edge and take on Mr.
Buchanan directly in Southern states over the conservative
commentator's opposition to Operation Desert Storm. In hopes
of preserving GOP harmony for the fall campaign, "we have
fought up there {in New Hampshire} with one hand behind our
back," Mr. Black said. "If we need to get it over with, we
can handle it differently."
   For Mr. Bush, a continuing challenge from the right would
siphon time, money and attention from the campaign's general
election planning. The nightmare scenario for the Bush-Quayle
high command is for Mr. Buchanan, fueled by fresh supplies of
campaign contributions and media attention, to press his
guerrilla attack all the way to the June 2 primary in
California, where the state GOP is badly split between
moderate and conservative factions.
   But if New Hampshire pointed up the Republicans' problems,
it didn't do much to resolve the Democrats'. "It's sort of
the worst possible situation because it's so unfocused,"
fretted Democratic political consultant Greg Schneiders. "You
don't have a strong candidate coming out of New Hampshire.
The question is whether you have a strong candidate coming
out of the South."
   The man who gained the most here was Mr. Tsongas. He was a
soft-spoken contrast to Mr. Buchanan -- but adopted the same
stance as an anti-establishment outsider bent on remaking his
party. His pro-business platform struck a chord in this
economically troubled state, but his social liberalism and
elite image could dog him as he competes elsewhere.
   Exit polls show Mr. Tsongas did best among wealthier,
higher-educated Democratic voters, while his closest rival,
Mr. Clinton, was stronger among lower-income working class
families. Though Mr. Tsongas served for a decade in Congress,
his emergence is still unnerving to many established
Democrats: He opposes such cherished party issues as tax
breaks for the middle class and tougher trade sanctions on
Japan.
   "Some Democrats will find it very hard to take," Mr.
Tsongas said of his pro-business stance at a rally this week.
"So be it, so be it."
   Savoring his victory last night, Mr. Tsongas said, "We
want the economic truth. Tell us the economic truth,
Washington, and we can live with it. We are a great nation
and we are a great people. The message from New Hampshire is
treat us that way."
   Mr. Clinton's campaign stumbled badly here after
disclosures regarding his private life and efforts to avoid
the draft during the Vietnam War. Among his own generation,
the 45-year-old Democrat appears to have been most hampered
but he has gamely defied those who would have written him out
of the race. And he retains enough money to continue his
campaign into areas such as the South that may prove more
hospitable to him.
   In the campaign's final days, Mr. Clinton crisscrossed the
state asking voters for a second chance, and his hope is to
regain his old edge in the next month. "New Hampshire tonight
has made Bill Clinton the comeback kid," said Mr. Clinton
before cheering supporters last night. Mr. Tsongas, the New
Englander, will be on familiar turf next week in the Maine
caucuses, but his Arkansas rival hopes to recoup on March 3,
when Maryland and Georgia go to the polls. Beyond the South
and Super Tuesday March 10, the Clinton campaign has sought
to build a political firewall by organizing heavily in
Illinois, which holds its primary March 17.
   "I think we've got a Tsongas-Clinton race on our hands,"
said Democratic pollster Paul Maslin. "One or the other of
them is going to have to gain the upper hand in the next
three weeks. If not, then I think you've got a very
combustible situation."
   Mr. Tsongas has begun to generate some excitement among
Greek-American donors, who pumped millions into Michael
Dukakis's ill-starred campaign in 1988 but had been holding
back this time. Still, Mr. Clinton has a huge financial
advantage and has continued to draw financial support even
amid his highly publicized troubles.
   The failure of a third Democrat to show any strength to
date buys some time for the governor. Sen. Kerrey, whose
campaign is in debt, had hoped to open up some space between
himself and his fellow Midwesterner, Sen. Harkin. The South
Dakota primary next week will be a second opportunity, but
both men have had to struggle to connect with voters.
   As the two members of Congress in the race, Sens. Harkin
and Kerrey paid a price for their association with
Washington. Adding to their discomfort last night was the
fact that they had to fight for third place with former Gov.
Brown, whose grass-roots campaign has played on the
anti-establishment mood.
   Mr. Kerrey, laying claim to third place, said, "This fight
has just begun." But despite spending heavily on advertising,
he struggled to establish himself as a clear voice. His
supporters shared his concern for the issue of national
health insurance but this emphasis was outdone by wider
concerns about the economy. Women -- much more than men --
backed Mr. Kerrey despite his distinguished war record in
Vietnam. And though Mr. Kerrey has cast himself as the
candidate of a new generation, Mr. Brown's strength among
baby-boomer voters between 30 and 44 years old stole support
that Mr. Kerrey needed.
   With most of the Democratic vote in, Mr. Kerrey had 12%,
or just one point above Mr. Harkin at 11%. Mr. Brown trailed
at 9% and the write-in campaign for Mr. Cuomo finished with
only 4% or slightly above the more low-profile campaign
mounted by Mr. Nader's forces.
   ---
   Staff reporter John Harwood in Washington, D.C.,
contributed to this article.