Who's News:
   Peat Marwick's Schuetze Leads the List
   Of Candidates for SEC Chief Accountant
   ----
   By Lee Berton
   Staff Reporter of the Wall Street Journal
The job of chief accountant at the SEC has been vacant for
almost a full year since Edmund Coulson, the former chief
accountant who had worked his way up the SEC's ranks, left
last January to join Ernst & Young, a major accounting firm,
as a partner. Although Mr. Breeden has said that he is
satisfied having George Diacont as acting chief accountant
over this transition period, pressure has been mounting from
the accounting profession to pick a new chief who could speak
more forcibly about major accounting and financial-disclosure
issues.
   As partner in charge of accounting practice in Peat's
department of professional practice, Mr. Schuetze apparently
has beaten out five other candidates for the highly
influential job, sources say. He would be the SEC's first
chief accountant who came to the commission from an
accounting firm. Mr. Schuetze didn't return phone calls, and
SEC officials couldn't be reached for comment yesterday.
   Accountants say the position of chief accountant at the
SEC is key among regulators who work to prevent financial
fraud and manipulation of accounting rules. The SEC's chief
accountant also is a top adviser to the commission on
disclosure rules for U.S. and foreign stocks and how such
disclosure could affect U.S. and world capital markets.
   "If Walter is picked for the job, there's no question he
is well versed in most important theoretical and practical
issues involving accounting," said Dennis Beresford, chairman
of the Financial Accounting Standards Board. The FASB, the
profession's most influential, private-sector
standard-setting body, derives its power from the SEC under
U.S. securities laws.
   Mr. Beresford said that Mr. Schuetze "is a progressive
thinker and his own man as far as accounting issues go, and
is openminded on the issue of market-value accounting." SEC
Chairman Breeden has been urging accounting rule-makers to
implement more current-value accounting to replace the
current historic-value system, which he calls
"once-upon-a-time" accounting because it failed to anticipate
current problems of financial institutions.
   Mr. Schuetze, who is considered a leading proponent of
simplified accounting standards, recently wrote for a major
accounting journal, noting that current accounting rules are
too complex. The FASB has been criticized by business for
issuing accounting rules that are too complicated and whose
benefits can't be justified by the costs of implementing such
rules.
   "Walter is an independent and balanced thinker and would
likely push for less complicated and more practical
accounting rules, which are needed," the FASB's Mr. Beresford
said.
   Mr. Schuetze, a founding member of the FASB in 1973,
remained on the board until 1976 when he returned to Peat
Marwick, which he originally joined through a merger of a
Texas CPA firm, where he was a partner, into Peat in 1958. He
is a former chairman of the Accounting Standards Executive
Committee of the American Institute of Certified Public
Accountants and is currently a member of the committee, which
also issues accounting rules and guidance.
   The job of chief accountant of the SEC pays about $108,000
annually, far less than Mr. Schuetze currently earns at Peat
Marwick, accountants say. Peat, which has recently undergone
some restructuring, asked 14% of its partners to leave to
reduce costs and streamline the firm.
   Under Peat's partnership rules, Mr. Schuetze would have
had to retire by mid1993, when he reaches age 60.
   ---
   Kevin Salwen contributed to this article.