LEISURE  ARTS -- Theater:
   Classic Dramas Inside the Beltway
   ----
   By Edwin Wilson
Meanwhile, the Shakespeare Theatre had been bursting at
the seams in its small, pseudo-Elizabethan auditorium at the
Folger Library. Inaugurated in 1970, the Shakespeare Theatre
was an integral part of the Folger for its first 15 years,
but since 1985 has been an independent organization. Under
the leadership of Artistic Director Michael Kahn, it
prospered to the point where it was victim of its own
success. With 11,000 subscribers and a theater that held only
243 people, it was playing to 100% capacity with no room for
growth. For several years it had been looking unsuccessfully
for larger quarters.
   About a year ago, fortuitously, the Shakespeare Theatre
and the Lansburgh found each other: The one needed playing
space, the other a theater company, and so an unexpected
partnership was formed. This month the Shakespeare Theatre
officially opened at its new home with a production of "Much
Ado About Nothing."
   The theater itself seems ideal for the company. It has an
attractive entrance on 7th Street, and a commodious outer
lobby. The main lobby is spacious and inviting, and there is
a large backstage area. The auditorium, in the shape of a
parabola, has a colonnade around the sides and back, a little
like the Capitol rotunda. The seats, which are all on one
level, and the carpeting are a pleasing shade of green, and
the sight lines and acoustics are excellent.
   The current production, directed by Mr. Kahn, is
impressive without being inspired. The play mixes a number of
elements: the verbal dueling of Beatrice (Kelly McGillis) and
Benedick (David Selby), who swear much too vehemently that
they will never fall in love or marry; the buffoonery of the
constable Dogberry (Floyd King) -- a fountainhead of
malapropisms; and the dark melodrama of Don John (Edward
Gero), who convinces Claudio (Mark Philpot) that his fiancee,
Hero (Lisa Gay Hamilton), is a wanton.
   The play is set in Sicily, and scene designer Derek McLane
has provided a gracious villa on one side of the stage and an
open courtyard in the center with a grape arbor in the rear,
all brought to sunny life by the lighting of Howell Binkley.
   Ms. McGillis and Mr. Selby, both veterans of films and
television as well as the stage, miss the lightness of tone
and the sense of music and poetry of the opening scenes,
which George Bernard Shaw insists are essential to the
exchanges between the two reluctant lovers. In the later
portions, however, the seriousness of the performers pays
off. Beatrice, superficially all fun and frivolity, has an
undertone of feeling and concern in her that Ms. McGillis
captures perfectly.
   Mr. Kahn manages the farcical sections effectively if
predictably: The scenes in which first Benedick and then
Beatrice overhear their friends describe how each is
hopelessly in love with the other; and the low-comedy moments
when the men of Dogberry's watch unwittingly capture the
rogues hired by Don John to carry out his villainy. Once
again, though, it is the serious side that is most
convincing. Especially telling in this regard is Ted van
Griethuysen as Leonato, the father of Hero and uncle of
Beatrice. He is warm and paternal in the early scenes, but
later, when his daughter is falsely accused of perfidy, he is
Lear-like in his rage.
   The main point of this "Much Ado," however, is not the
production itself but the milestone it represents for theater
here. With a full-size stage, Mr. Kahn and his colleagues at
long last can spread their wings and give the Bard his due,
mounting even the most demanding of his scripts. With 200
additional seats in the house, the theater can accommodate
its growing audience, allowing it to enjoy in comfort the
full panoply of classic drama.
   Across town at the Arena Stage, Washington's other major
institutional theater, classic theater also is alive, in a
rollicking version of Moliere's farce "The School for Wives."
Arnold (Richard Bauer), a middle-aged man who has kept his
ward, the innocent Agnes (Ellen Jane Smith), secluded and
ignorant, hopes that this will make her the perfect wife.
Possibly the most chauvinistic character ever created, Arnold
is convinced that a stupid, blindly obedient young woman is
the wife every man should be looking for. But Agnes falls in
love with Horace (Bill Mondy), the son of an old friend of
Arnold's, and Arnold sees his plans thwarted at every turn.
   Director Kyle Donnelly has set the play in Washington in
the 1960s. Arnold, wearing a three-piece suit, is a secretary
in the Nixon cabinet; Agnes is a blond Barbie doll come to
life; and Horace is a full-fledged '60s hippie complete with
long hair, beads, bell-bottom jeans and a fringed leather
jacket. The backdrop of the set, by Loy Arcenas, is a row of
painted townhouse facades, and the stage floor is a bright
apple green with two holes cut from which twin pianos emerge.
The music played on them by Tim Caggiano and Jim Scopeletis
is an integral part of the fun.
   Mr. Bauer makes an amusingly apoplectic Arnold, while Ms.
Smith, with her Betty Boop voice, and Mr. Mondy with his hip
manner and his entrances on a motor bike, drive the old
curmudgeon up the wall. Ms. Donnelly proves to be a
thoroughly inventive director. She gets a bit carried away
with her comic twists in the final moments, but basically her
updating of the play works amazingly well. Not surprisingly,
people here respond most directly to the specter of a square,
insider politician getting his comeuppance from a team of
upstarts.