Isolationist Voices Won't Echo Loudly
   In U.S., Quayle Reassures Europeans
   ----
   By Tim Carrington
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
As the trans-Atlantic allies grope toward a post-Cold War
partnership, worries about U.S.-European trade frictions seem
to overshadow many of the discussions. Europeans fret about
an isolationist America; Americans are uneasy about a
fortress-like Europe in the West and chaos in the East.
   Mr. Quayle dismissed reports that the U.S. might shrink
its military presence in Europe if trade negotiations under
the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade remain locked in
an impasse over farm subsidies. "There's no linkage," he
insisted.
   He said that with the dissolution of the Soviet Union and
its seeking help from the West, the objectives of the North
Atlantic Treaty Organization have changed and remain somewhat
vague. "The main threat isn't the old Soviet Union or Russia
today," he said. "The threat is uncertainty, and the threat
is instability. NATO is an insurance policy."
   But while he tried to reaffirm U.S. commitment to global
security, he acknowledged that there were more frequent calls
in the U.S. for an inward-looking approach. "You get it on
the left and the right," he said. "They {some Americans}
would like to have a simple world where America is left alone
and could leave everyone else alone. They don't recognize
that we have a global economy."
   Still, trade frictions between the U.S. and the Europeans
could worsen if GATT talks can't be put back on course. "If
we don't conclude these negotiations, we could run the risk
of seeing the Cold War replaced by a trade war," he warned.
   Beyond several low-key complaints about the level of
European subsidies, Mr. Quayle seemed generally positive
about trends in Europe, although somewhat stunned by the pace
of change. After visiting the Baltic states and following a
security conference in Munich, the U.S. vice president said
that "people all marveled at the changes that have taken
place."
   The tour seems to have left unanswered many questions
about the shape of Europe: When will a single currency take
hold throughout the European Community? Will foreign policy
flow from the community or individual states? How will EC
institutions function internationally?
   Overall, however, Mr. Quayle tended to view Western
Europe's integration in a positive light. "As long as
Europeans continue to support the ideals they have in the
past, and it doesn't become a fortress Europe, my view point
is that it'll evolve very favorably," he said.
   The chaotic break-up in the East leaves more questions.
"The Baltics have got some difficult problems in getting
energy resources into these countries," he said. But he added
that it's unclear whether the oil and gas is being held up
because of an undeclared boycott in Russia or because of
economic chaos that afflicts virtually all spheres of life
there.
   He emphasized the importance of eventually helping Russia
make the ruble convertible by putting together a
stabilization fund to support it.