REVIEW  OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   Presidential Indexation
This idea emanated out of the Justice Department's policy
shop and first appeared last week in a Washington Times
column by Paul Craig Roberts. It is based on the distinction
between laws passed by Congress and regulations issued solely
by the executive branch.
   The argument here is that President Bush has the authority
to index capital gains because the procedures for measuring
gains are determined by regulation, not by law. Congress, of
course, never said that capital gains must be defined as the
inflated gains (the reasons for its reluctance to say so
explicitly are fairly obvious).
   The tax law itself says only that taxes must be paid on
gains as measured by the increase from the "basis" a taxpayer
has in the property. The code defines the basis from which
taxes must later be paid as "the cost of such property," but
the cost isn't defined as real or nominal. Treasury rules
have treated the basis as nominal, but a new regulation could
include an adjustment for inflation. The same argument could
be used to index depreciation schedules, which could further
boost real-estate values and save many banks.
   There is a long history of executive-branch departments
and agencies interpreting vague statutes; for details, the
lawyers can check out Chevron v. Natural Resources Defense
Council (1984). The Bob Jones University case in 1982 arose
when the IRS by regulation blocked charitable status for
racist schools. (We've made the related argument that the
President also has the inherent impoundment and line-item
veto powers.) It's also unlikely that anyone would have
standing to sue to block indexing.
   It would be an enormously productive and popular move if
Mr. Bush decides to index capital gains. Just as inflation
led to bracket creep on personal income-tax rates before
Congress passed indexing starting in 1985, indexing capital
gains would be the equivalent of a tax cut. The most
appropriate time to announce such a policy, of course, would
be this evening. It would be a bold move, which would benefit
both the economy and Mr. Bush.