State-Owned French Insurer Is Content Staying Home
   ---
   Groupe des Assurances Nationales
   Puts Consolidation Over Expansion
   ----
   By Charles Fleming
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
In fact, sitting in his sparcely furnished central Paris
office, Mr. Heilbronner makes it clear during a recent
interview that he's trying to be something of a homebody.
This means focusing his strategy for the state-owned company
on consolidating its position in the fiercely competitive
French insurance market. At the same time, the company has
its work cut out in restructuring its Credit Industriel et
Commercial retail banking subsidiary, the linchpin of Mr.
Heilbronner's ambitions to create an integrated financial
services group.
   "If GAN can become one of the best in the French market,
then it won't have any problem finding others in the world to
work with it," he said.
   That alone is a fairly tall order, however. Today, Groupe
des Assurances Nationales is the smallest of the big four
French insurers in what constitutes one of the most
competitive European markets. In 1990 it reported premium
income of 33.5 billion francs ($6.23 billion), placing it
well behind the other two state-owned insurers, Union des
Assurances de Paris with 97.3 billion francs in premiums and
Assurances Generales de France with 46.0 billion francs, and
private-sector rival Groupe Axa, with 48.2 billion francs.
   In 1990, Groupe des Assurances Nationales posted group net
earnings after minority interests of 2.4 billion francs, down
4% from the previous year. Although this represents a
respectable return on equity of 13.8%, analysts warn of the
difficulty of comparing profitability of French insurers.
This is because all the insurers' bottom lines rely heavily
on realizing capital gains from asset portfolios, rather than
on their insurance activities. In 1990, for example, capital
gains at Groupe des Assurances Nationales's accounted for a
substantial 3.4 billion francs of group net profit.
   Mr. Heilbronner wouldn't comment on the prospects for 1991
earnings, simply referring back to last December's estimates
that group net profit would be in line with 1990 levels.
However, he specified that domestic premium income grew 18%
last year, compared with overall growth for the market of
about 10%, while premiums outside France were up 12%.
   Heilbronner has a couple of good reasons to be talking up
the prospects for his group at the moment. Not only is he up
for re-appointment later this year under the French public
sector's system of three-year mandates for corporate
chairmen, but Groupe des Assurances Nationales, like the
other state-owned insurers, is about to gear up for the
government's planned sale of a further 25% stake in their
capital. A law is currently before the National Assembly that
will allow the state to reduce its stake in each company to
51% from a current minimum of 75%.
   Mr. Heilbronner, who is in the potentially awkward
position of being an ally of right-wing politicians while
depending on the Socialist government for his job, says he is
confident that he will be re-appointed in June. But he's less
willing to commit himself when asked about the forthcoming
government sale. No date has been set, and Mr. Heilbronner
sidesteps the question about how Groupe des Assurances
Nationales could benefit from having a further 25% floated,
saying that it's a purely political issue.
   However, government officials don't show much sign of
being in a hurry to sell off any of the state's insurance
shares. This is because all three insurance companies' shares
are trading at a heavy discount to their most recent issue
prices, and the government isn't in any hurry to embarrass
itself by trying to unload its stock on investors who are
still showing a book loss on their last foray into the
sector.
   Groupe des Assurances Nationales shares, for example, are
still well below the per-share price of 2,150 francs at which
the company issued new shares valued at 3.6 billion francs in
June 1990.
   In fact, once the government does sell off its shares,
either because the stock market has recovered sufficiently or
because the cash-strapped administration can't wait any
longer, few observers expect Groupe des Assurances Nationales
to be the first, partly because of the group's
underperformance in the market.
   Nevertheless, Mr. Heilbronner has been trying to rev up
his management team in recent months. For example, at an
internal company seminar last November, managers were
presented with a bold graph showing how the company's
domestic premium income is going to surge ahead of Axa's next
year and overtake Assurances Generales de France by 1996,
vaulting it into second place at home behind market leader
Union des Assurances de Paris.
   Groupe des Assurances Nationales' argument is that both
Axa and Assurances Generales de France are bogged down in
over-ambitious foreign expansion strategies that divert both
financial resources and management's attention.
   Whether Mr. Heilbronner has a valid point or not is open
to question. But certainly the three larger companies set a
cracking pace in foreign acquisitions. Union des Assurances
de Paris, for example has been piling up new acquisitions
across Europe at breakneck pace. Assurances Generales de
France is embroiled in a complicated struggle to obtain a
stake in Germany's Aachener und Muenchener Beteiligungs AG.
And Axa recently sunk one billion dollars in Equitable Life
Assurance Society of the U.S.
   In fact, Mr. Heilbronner knows what he's talking about
when it comes to foreign problems. Groupe des Assurances
Nationales' main U.K. subsidiary, Minster, posted a 1990 loss
of 277 million francs, precipitating a major management
reshuffle at the unit last year. Now Mr. Heilbronner says
that he expects an improvement in earnings there, although he
puts no figure on the estimate.
   Mr. Heilbronner is also not immune to attack on the home
front. Speaking privately, several rival French insurers
point their fingers at Groupe des Assurances Nationales as
the main culprit of a price-cutting war that has driven
French insurers' margins substantially lower over the past
year, especially in the industrial risk sector.
   Asked about these allegations, Mr. Heilbronner denies that
his company was responsible for any price war, but
acknowledges that he considers his group to be
under-represented in this sector. "Our market share is less
than what we should have," he says. "We have 6% of the market
overall, but less than that in industrial risk. We want to
develop that, but prudently."
   Groupe des Assurances Nationales now owns 82% of the
Credit Industriel et Commercial banking group, a once
sluggish network of regional banks that has passed from hand
to hand over the years within the French state sector. Groupe
des Assurances Nationales has steadily raised its stake in
Credit Industriel et Commercial, tightened up the management,
cleaned out its portfolio, and begun experimenting with
insurance sales via the bank's branches.
   Mr. Heilbronner says he is satisfied that Credit
Industriel et Commercial has already proved a respectable
investment, calculating that the bank's contribution of 450
million francs contribution to Groupe des Assurances
Nationales' bottom line in 1990 represents a return of about
10%. In addition, he argues that Groupe des Assurances
Nationales' continued efforts to overhaul the bank's computer
networks, hold down operating costs and to pay off foreign
debts, mean that profitability will only really take off in
1994 or 1995.
   In the meantime, warn analysts, the costs of turning
Credit Industriel et Commercial around will continue to weigh
on Groupe des Assurances Nationales' earnings. This, of
course, is reflected in the parent's shares, which lag behind
its rivals, trading at about 8.5 times earnings, compared
with a sector average of about 10.