LEISURE  ARTS:
   TV: Medicaid Scammers and Boarding-School Murderers
   ----
   By Dorothy Rabinowitz
Anyone with a yearning to know the numerous and strange
ways in which tax dollars are wasted will find this segment
of "Street Stories" rewarding, in a bleak sort of way.
Correspondent Harold Dow reports on a larcenous scheme,
mostly in the big cities, whereby doctors, pharmacists and
indigent "patients" claiming phony illnesses work together to
get rich off Medicaid. Thanks to hidden cameras and producer
Anna Phillips masquerading as a patient, viewers get to look
in at some remarkable scenes -- among them a waiting-room pep
rally in which scam artists rehearse Medicaid patients in the
false symptoms they should report. The patients seem to have
done their job well enough to bilk Medicaid of more than $150
million a year. Bernard Goldberg's surprising report on the
athletic abilities of the Crow Indians is the other story of
note in this segment.
   -- 9-10 p.m. EST, on CBS.
                                                                                                       

                      Sunday, Feb. 2
                                                                                                       

          Deadly Betrayal: The Bruce Curtis Story
                                                                                                       

   Of the made-for-TV movies to hit the screen this season,
this ranks near the top in heft and quality. A product of the
Canadian Broadcasting Company, with a script by Keith Ross
Leckie, it concerns an adolescently eccentric Canadian
boarding-school student whose friendship with an American
schoolmate leads to disaster. The shy and studious Canadian
and his pathologically rebellious school chum wind up a
nightmarish weekend by murdering the latter's parents. The
script weaves its deft way through a complicated
psychological maze, and is abetted by equally deft
performances. Simon Reynolds gives a confidently understated
performance as the Canadian being tried for murder, and Jaimz
Woolvett is chilling as his friend Scott. This fact-based
film tells us more about the reality of plea bargains,
trials, lawyers and courtrooms than several seasons of "L.A.
Law."
   -- 9-11 p.m. EST, on NBC.
                                                                                                       

                      Monday, Feb. 3
                                                                                                       

                      The Broken Cord
                                                                                                       

   This adaptation of a autobiographical book by Michael
Dorris, who adopted a Native American child with fetal
alcohol syndrome, could be described as unsurprising -- which
it is for the most part. The exception is the ending, with
its commendable absence of any upbeat resolution. A grim
story laid on with a bit of a trowel, the film offers a kind
of detailed education in the subject and, sometimes, a moving
one. It could also have been a lot better, especially in the
first half, where, on occasion, it mistakes itself for a
music video.
   -- 9-11 p.m. EST, on ABC.
                                                                                                       

                      Tuesday, Feb. 4
                                                                                                       

                     Fugitive Among Us
                                                                                                       

   Another film inspired by actual events, this one concerns
an obsessed policeman (Peter Strauss) and the object of his
obsession, an accused rapist. A glumly effective Eric Roberts
stars as the handsome miscreant the policeman wants to put
away. This is one of those films that picks up late in the
game, after an hour of routine sludge and sleaze. That's too
late, perhaps, but there's no denying the peculiar vitality
sneaking into this fog on little rats' feet when the locus of
evil begins shifting.
   -- 9-11 p.m. EST, on CBS.
                                                                                                       

                      Sunday, Feb. 9
                                                                                                       

                    The Burden of Proof
                                                                                                       

   Hector Elizondo saves the day as the star of this
immensely complicated piece of top-drawer trash. A miniseries
based on Scott Turow's novel, its lead character is a lawyer
with the unlikely name of Alejandro Stern, a role Mr.
Elizondo plays with marvelous panache. A dizzying array of
lovelies (played by Stefanie Powers, Victoria Principal and
Mel Harris) pant after the staidly respectable -- and
invariably surprised -- Alejandro. Mr. Elizondo manages to
make their passion seem not only credible but natural and
inevitable -- no small feat. Along the way, the story deals
with such matters of contemporary relevance as herpes and
illegal trading. The herpes part is easy, but don't even try
to understand the complicated financial dealings hurled about
here. Just follow the trail of the broken hearts and yearning
women and you have the point of this luxuriously entertaining
soap opera.
   -- 9-11 p.m. EST, on ABC. Part two airs the following
night.
                                                                                                       

                      Monday, Feb. 10

                     Barnum's Big Top
                                                                                                       

   This chapter of "The American Experience" (by Matthew
Collins) is about an America before radio and movies -- a
society hungry for entertainment. All across the nation,
people looked forward to seeing the parade that made the day
the circus came to town the greatest excitement of the year.
An editorial-page writer in 1875 paid moving tribute to the
circus, noting that it "transformed the hard-time dullness of
our streets. . . ." This picture of the American circus isn't
always cheerful, but is never less than compelling social
history.
   -- 9-10 p.m. EST, on PBS. PBS air dates and times vary so
check local listings.