What's News --
   World-Wide
With the campaign turning to the South, second-place
finisher Arkansas Gov. Clinton was in a good position as
nearly a dozen primaries loomed over a three-week period.
   ---
   Yitzhak Rabin wrested leadership of Israel's opposition
Labor party from Shimon Peres, setting the stage for June
elections against the ruling Likud party. In Washington, Sen.
Byrd said Israeli assurances that U.S. loan guarantees
wouldn't be used for housing in occupied lands aren't
meaningful without a change in settlement policy.
                                                                                                       

   Thousands of civilians fled villages in southern Lebanon
as Shiite Muslim guerrillas and Israeli soldiers fired
rockets and artillery shells at one another for a third
straight day. Israeli helicopters also struck a guerrilla
base. There weren't any reported casualties in Lebanon; 13
people in northern Israel were treated for shock and
injuries.
   ---
   The Senate approved, 94-4, comprehensive energy
legislation that would overhaul electric-utility regulation,
streamline nuclear-plant licensing and increase the use of
non-gasoline fuels. Officials said that the White House would
support the measure.
   ---
   Iraq was threatened by the U.N. Security Council with
"serious consequences" for refusing to permit future
monitoring of Baghdad's arms industries and not cooperating
fully with U.N. weapons inspections. Meanwhile, a U.N. report
called human rights abuses in Iraq "grave," saying President
Saddam Hussein is primarily responsible.
   ---
   A U.S. appeals court panel struck down an FCC policy
giving women a preference over men in granting broadcast
licenses. The opinion, written by Supreme Court Justice
Thomas, said the policy unconstitutionally discriminates
against men. Thomas heard the case before his nomination to
the high court.
   ---
   White South Africans voted for apartheid in a
parliamentary by-election in the Potchefstroom constituency
in Transvaal province. The vote was described as a harsh
rebuff to reformist President de Klerk. The Conservative
Party, which wants to bring back segregation, seized the
local legislative seat from de Klerk's National Party.
   ---
   Joseph Doherty was deported from New York to face a life
sentence in the U.K. for killing a British soldier in Belfast
in 1980. The Supreme Court ruled last month that the former
Irish Republican Army member couldn't seek political asylum
in the U.S., paving the way for his deportation.
   ---
   India held an almost violence-free vote to restore an
elected state government to troubled Punjab. But threats by
Sikh separatists kept voter turnout at a record low, with
only 30% of the 11 million registered voters casting ballots.
Federal rule was imposed after the previous government was
dismissed in 1987 for failing to control Sikh activists.
   ---
   The U.S. immediately will establish formal diplomatic
relations with the central Asian states of Azerbaijan,
Tajikistan, Turkmenistan and Uzbekistan, the White House
said. The announcement means that Washington soon will have
diplomatic ties with 11 of the 12 former Soviet republics.
The sole exception is Georgia.
   ---
   A Census Bureau analysis confirmed that the ranks of both
the rich and the poor grew in the 1980s, so that distribution
of income is becoming gradually, but noticeably, more
unequal. The changes in income distribution continued a trend
established in the 1970s.
   ---
   Anthropologists said they have identified the oldest
well-documented fossil specimen of the immediate predecessors
of humans, pushing back the direct evidence for this
evolutionary line by 500,000 years. An article concerning the
scrap of skull bone, found 25 years ago in Kenya, is reported
in today's issue of the journal Nature.
   ---
   Proposed nationwide tests could become a barrier to
educational reforms by encouraging U.S. schools to emphasize
scores over learning, a House panel was told. An official of
the Office of Technology Assessment said a two-year study
suggests Congress should go slow in moving toward a voluntary
national standard curriculum and tests.
   ---
   Suspected Maoist guerrillas bombed the French Embassy in
Lima, killed a former police major and wounded the mayor of a
district in the Peruvian capital as the rebels pressed their
offensive, police said.