U.S. Car Makers Face many Problems
   In Efforts to Attract Japanese Buyers
   ----
   By Christopher J. Chipello and Clay Chandler
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
Why don't Japanese buy more American cars?
   For one thing, there's a widespread perception that U.S.
cars are too big, too expensive and too carelessly made.
Detroit has made steady progress in raising the quality of
its cars, but old prejudices die hard. And while the best
U.S. cars recently have improved their scores in
international performance comparisons, they still trail well
behind Japan's best cars.
   Japanese auto dealers say American-made cars don't sell in
Japan because Detroit doesn't do enough to tailor exports to
the Japanese market. They also fault U.S. car makers for
continuing to put steering columns on the left side of the
vehicles, even though Japanese motorists drive on the left
side of the road.
   Relatively low fuel efficiency hurt sales, too. Gasoline
in Japan costs about three times as much as it does in the
U.S.
                                                                                                       

   Why weren't American car makers able to carve out a bigger
share of Japan's market when the quality of their vehicles
was still clearly superior?
   Although Japanese government officials boast that there
are no tariffs on car imports, it hasn't always been that
way. Ford Motor Co. and General Motors Corp. pioneered car
production in Japan and dominated the market until 1939, when
they were evicted by a martial government. After World War
II, foreign makers were effectively kept out by tariffs and
commodity taxes until the mid-1970s.
   Those barriers have been largely dismantled. But the 1980
oil crisis and unfavorable exchange rates crushed demand for
gas-guzzlers of the sort Detroit was then turning out. And
the growing strength of Japanese auto makers, with their
extensive domestic dealership networks and increasingly
high-quality products, made the market hard to penetrate.
                                                                                                       

   Have other foreign auto makers done better than the Big
Three in Japan?
   German firms have shown it is possible to make money here.
BMW plowed nearly $100 million into its Japanese affiliates
in the past decade, built a network of 122 exclusive outlets
and started providing cars with the steering column on the
right. Along with Mercedes Benz and Volkswagen, BMW was well
positioned to benefit from a consumer spending boom in the
late 1980s. Although sales were hurt by last year's economic
slowdown, German cars accounted for 60% of the 178,000 cars
imported into Japan in the first 11 months of 1991. U.S.
imports accounted for just 16% of the total, and about half
of those were from Japanese plants in the U.S.
                                                                                                       

   But aren't there still a lot of hidden obstacles?
   There are some. U.S. executives have long complained about
the exclusive nature of Japanese dealerships, which makes it
expensive and time-consuming for outsiders to gain market
share. Although most Japanese car dealers are independently
owned, they are closely affiliated with specific Japanese car
makers in the kind of tight relationship that is
characteristic of Japanese business.
                                                                                                       

   Will Japan ease some of these obstacles this week?
   Yes. The government has been pushing car makers and
dealers to start carrying more U.S. autos. While most dealers
are unenthusiastic about carrying U.S. cars, several big
Japanese makers are likely to announce efforts to encourage
their affiliated dealers to sell foreign cars.
   The government also is expected to ease standards and
testing requirements for some safety or emissions devices.
There has even been talk of preferential tax treatment for
purchases of foreign cars, although such a proposal would
have to surmount stiff domestic opposition.
                                                                                                       

   Will these steps mean big sales for U.S. makers?
   Not immediately. Cooperation by Japanese dealers could
help U.S. makers demonstrate that American cars have
improved. And the easing of standards would help U.S. makers
introduce new models in Japan more quickly. But building
market share takes years. Given the minuscule U.S. share of
the Japanese auto market, percentage increases in U.S.
exports to Japan might look impressive in the next few years.
But a few thousand extra sales won't do much to restore the
tens of thousands of jobs that the U.S. auto industry has
lost.
   As for car parts, Japan's five largest auto makers
announced plans in November to increase their annual
procurement of U.S.-made parts and products to $16.36 billion
in the fiscal year ending March 31, 1995. That would be
nearly double the level in the year ending March 31, 1991.
                                                                                                       

   Are the Big Three getting more serious about cracking the
Japanese market?
   There are some encouraging signs. U.S. makers are getting
better at modifying imports to better suit Japanese driving
needs and tastes. GM's sales of 12,500 vehicles in Japan in
1990 represented a 10-fold increase from 1985, and the
company has taken a number of steps to bolster its image in
Japan. Three years ago, Ford took a 34% stake in a
joint-venture dealership network with Mazda Motor Corp., and
in 1990 sold more than 80,000 Ford-brand cars made in Japan
by Mazda, a figure that doesn't show up in trade statistics.
Ford has announced plans to start importing right-hand drive
cars to Japan from Europe later this year. Even Chrysler
Corp., which has complained loudest about Japan and sold the
fewest cars there, last year unveiled plans for a
right-hand-drive version of the Jeep Cherokees it now sells
in Japan through Honda dealers.