Commodities:
   Copper Surges Amid Signs of Growing Demand,
   Aggressive Buying Based on Technical Factors
   ----
   By Craig S. Smith
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
Domestic demand has been steadily increasing over the past
week, said Mike Frawley, metals trader at Dean Witter. Low
interest rates have apparently prompted copper consumers to
build their inventories, which have been at low levels, he
added.
   Moreover, speculators had bet heavily that prices would
fall and were forced to scramble yesterday to cut their
losses by buying offsetting contracts, Mr. Frawley said.
   Sentiment among people in the copper industry is turning
bullish as low interest rates and the possibility of tax cuts
raises hopes for an economic recovery, said Fred Demler,
metals economist at PaineWebber.
   But some analysts aren't as sanguine. "The U.S. upturn
might be around the corner, but foreign economic activity is
still falling," said Ronald Shorr, metals analyst at County
NatWest. The U.S. consumes only 20% of the world's copper,
and a recovery at home may not be enough to pick up the slack
in demand abroad, he said. The economies of Japan and Germany
are slowing, while the former Soviet Union, another large
copper consumer, is in economic disarray.
   Mr. Shorr, who is known for being bearish on copper,
forecasts an average copper price this year of about 82 cents
a pound, down from an average of $1.05 last year.
   If the economy does improve, the stronger demand for
copper will show up quickly in higher copper prices because
of the low levels of consumer copper inventories, said
analysts and industry executives.
   "You can shoot a cannon off where there used to be copper
stored five or six years ago," said Mark Beck, vice president
of metals procurement at Essex Group Inc., a major wire mill.
   Mr. Beck said orders for wire have been mediocre so far.
But copper bulls said it is too soon to expect prices to
reflect the U.S. recovery. Copper telephone wire, for
example, is one of the last things to go into new homes and
therefore among the last material to be ordered.
   Producers claim that a shortage of smelters -- plants that
convert crushed ore into refined metal -- should keep copper
prices firm while the industry awaits increased demand.
Growth in smelter capacity has lagged copper mines largely
because of environmental concerns.
   Phelps Dodge's chairman, Douglas Yearley, said the
"smelter bottleneck" should keep the supply of finished
copper growing at no more than 1% to 1.5% in 1992. As for
demand, Mr. Yearley expects zero to 1% growth world-wide,
meaning that inventories should rise only 0.5% or less during
the year.
   Not everyone agrees that the smelting bottleneck is enough
to keep inventories from climbing faster. Last year, copper
prices barely blipped as a result of smelter problems at
Cypress Minerals Co., indicating to some observers that the
market doesn't need all the smelting capacity currently on
line.
   "If there was a squeeze on smelter activity, I believe
it's over," Mr. Shorr said.
   On a technical basis, prices in the short-term appear
headed higher, said Mr. Demler of PaineWebber. If March
copper prices rise above the next critical level, $1.026,
they could continue rallying as much as $1.055, he said.
   "I think copper will reach $1.10 to $1.15 a pound before
the end of the year, with the average somewhere between $1
and $1.05," Mr. Demler said.
   In other commodity markets yesterday:
                                                                                                       

   ENERGY: Gasoline futures prices rose nearly a cent in New
York Mercantile Exchange trading yesterday, primarily on the
bullishness of the weekly report from the American Petroleum
Institute. That report, issued Tuesday after trading ended,
showed a decrease in U.S. gasoline inventories when
expectations, generally, were for an increase. March gasoline
finished 0.94 cent higher at 58.01 cents a gallon. Heating
oil for March was slightly higher, as well. March crude oil
fell one cent to $19.27 a barrel, after a day of zigzagging
back and forth with every utterance from oil ministers in
Geneva for a meeting of the Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries. Rumors that the meeting was in trouble
proved unfounded, but nonetheless affected prices
temporarily. Prices recovered substantially on a statement by
Kuwait's oil minister that the meeting was on track and an
agreement on production cuts might be reached by today.
                                                                                                       

   GRAINS AND SOYBEANS: Wheat futures prices fell sharply for
the second consecutive day. Commodity fund managers triggered
a selling wave in the wheat market Tuesday when several of
them decided to take profits on a rally that began last
summer. In trading on the Chicago Board of Trade, wheat for
March delivery sank 15 cents a bushel to settle at $4.245.
Corn and soybean prices rebounded after being led lower
Tuesday by the wheat plunge. Analysts say they aren't sure
long the liquidation will last in the wheat market. The wheat
pit at the Chicago Board of Trade was so hectic Tuesday that
a record 16,541 wheat options were traded. Traders said it
might be difficult to lift wheat prices significantly soon
because of growing speculation that farmers in the northern
Plains might plant a large amount of wheat this spring, and
precipitation appears to be improving the condition of the
hard red winter wheat crop that was planted last fall in the
southern Plains. Disease and weather problems persist,
however, for the soft red winter wheat crop that was planted
in the Midwest last fall. The former Soviet republics moved
quickly yesterday to take advantage of food-buying loan
guarantees allocated by the U.S. government this week. The
Commonwealth of Independent States is using the loan
guarantees to finance a bid for 700,000 metric tons of
subsidized U.S. wheat as well as to buy 475,000 metric tons
of U.S. corn, analysts said.
                                                                                                       

   COCOA: Futures prices fell sharply on continuing concerns
that the shortage of supply to consumption this year won't be
as wide as expected. Cocoa for March delivery ended at $1,091
a ton, down $41. Harri Schwartz, an analyst at Cargill
Investor Services, said speculators had bet heavily that
prices would rise, based on expectations of supply falling
short of consumption this year. But reports of the Ivory
Coast harvest indicate the main crop, which is harvested
between October and March, appears to be about the same size
as last year, he said. That means the mid-crop, which is
harvested between May and September will have to be
substantially below expectations to fulfill predictions of a
deficit this year, he said. Cocoa prices will reflect
traders' nervousness until the summer, when the size of the
midcrop can be assessed, he said.