Technology  Health:
   Chronic Fatigue
   Study Points
   To Herpes Virus
   ----
   By Ron Winslow
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The Incline Village cases brought chronic fatigue syndrome
to public attention in the mid-1980s, sparking what has
become a major and controversial medical mystery involving
scientists, doctors and patients caught in a debate over
whether their symptoms are real or imagined. The symptoms
include severe and prolonged fatigue, muscle and joint pain
and neurological problems. Many are bed-ridden or otherwise
unable to work or perform other basic tasks. Thousands of
people are believed to be affected, but the extent of the
illness is unknown.
   The new study found evidence of an active virus called
human herpes virus-6, or HHV-6, in 70% of a group of the
Incline Village patients, compared to 20% in people who
served as controls. And brain scans showed abnormalities
believed to indicate inflammation in 78% of the patients,
compared with 21% of controls.
   "The results clearly establish that in this group of
people there was a measurable physical {condition} that was
underpinning their symptoms," said Anthony L. Komaroff, a
researcher at Harvard Medical School and Brigham  Women's
Hospital, Boston, and leader of the group that performed the
study.
   People are usually exposed to HHV-6, one of several herpes
viruses, early in life, in casual contact with family
members. It sometimes causes roseola, a brief fever and rash,
in childhood; some people get infectious mononucleosis.
   "Most people exposed to the virus never get anything," Dr.
Komaroff said. "The body contains it and it remains dormant."
But it can be reawakened in certain conditions, and his
research group believes "some subtle immune deficiency"
apparently allows its reactivation and replication in chronic
fatigue patients.
   Since most people are exposed early in life, the virus
probably isn't the actual cause of the syndrome. Dr. Komaroff
believes several agents, ranging from allergies to a virus to
other environmental factors, may be the trigger.
   Dr. Komaroff said the study clearly differentiates people
with the syndrome from many people who walk into a doctor's
office complaining of a lack of energy and who often suffer
from depression. The syndrome itself almost always begins
"like a bolt out of the blue" after a bout with the flu, he
said.