Iraq Says It Is Willing to Resume Talks
   On Exports of Its Oil, Supervised by U.N.
   ----
   By James Tanner
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Crude oil futures slipped in New York and London on the
news, which renewed the possibility of Iraqi oil flowing into
world oil markets again soon -- but only briefly. Prices not
only recovered but rallied sharply in late-day trading on
both the New York Mercantile Exchange and on the
International Petroleum Exchange in London.
   In U.S. futures trading, crude oil for April delivery rose
33 cents a barrel to settle at $18.83 a barrel. In London,
Brent crude futures prices were 15 cents to 30 cents a barrel
higher.
   One reason for the rally was that Mr. Aziz made clear
after his statement that Iraq wasn't retreating from its
prior opposition to the original terms of the proposed Iraqi
oil sale. He said that Iraq doesn't want the sale governed by
a rigid U.N. resolution that would amount to "interference in
the internal affairs of Iraq."
   In a resolution six months ago, the U.N. Security Council
had offered to allow Iraq an emergency sale of $1.6 billion
of its oil for humanitarian purposes but under tight
restrictions. Discussions regarding such a sale later were
held between Iraqi and U.N. officials in Vienna. But Iraq's
representatives failed to show up for a second round of such
talks scheduled for early February.
   Yesterday, Mr. Aziz said Iraq was now prepared "to go into
an open dialogue" toward arrangements for the exporting of
its oil under U.N. auspices. But he suggested Iraq sell its
oil to members of the Security Council, including the U.S.,
which were its customers before the Persian Gulf War. In
turn, Iraq would buy food and medicines from these countries
so they could ensure the U.N. sanctions imposed during the
Persian Gulf crisis were not violated.
   According to Iraqi oil officials, they are prepared to
export oil in large volumes once the U.N. bans are lifted.
"We can easily export 1.5 million barrels a day without any
pressure," Osama Abdul Razzak AlHiti, Iraq's oil minister,
said in a recent interview.
   Even if allowed by the U.N., however, such volumes would
be less than Iraq exported before the Persian Gulf crisis
began in August 1990. Still, that amount of exports could
have a major impact on world oil markets.
   It would more than offset the total of the voluntary
output cuts -- 1.2 million barrels a day -- that 11 other
members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries
have agreed to make for the second quarter to prop up
petroleum prices during this period of seasonally slack
demand.
   Still, oil experts rule out any return of Iraq's oil to
world markets, even in modest amounts, before the third
quarter, if then. The chief reason is that the U.S., Britain
and most other members of the Security Council stoutly oppose
any easing of sanctions against Iraq until the government of
Saddam Hussein complies with all the U.N.'s cease-fire
demands. In this regard, the U.N. Security Council yesterday
again charged that Iraq still hasn't complied with the U.N.
requirements and must do so immediately. These demands
include destruction of all weapons, including facilities used
for nuclear and chemical weapons.