International:
   Abu Dhabi Sets
   Plan to Repay
   BCCI Creditors
   ----
   By Nicholas Bray
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
As part of the proposed settlement, Abu Dhabi, whose ruler
and government owned 77% of BCCI, has agreed to waive its
claims to $2.2 billion allegedly stolen from it by the bank.
The funds were deposited with BCCI in the Cayman Islands for
investment in the mid-1980s. Their disappearance wasn't
noticed until the fraud in the bank began to become evident
in 1990, people involved in the investigation said.
   The proposed settlement is designed to avoid the prospect
of lengthy and probably ultimately fruitless litigation over
the corpse of BCCI, Mr. Smouha said.
   To come into effect, it needs to be accepted by
approximately 70% of eligible creditors, who will be called
upon to waive any further claims against BCCI's Abu Dhabi
shareholders.
   A senior partner in the international accounting firm
Touche Ross  Co., Mr. Smouha was put in charge of BCCI by a
Luxembourg court shortly after the seizure last July 5 of its
operations in a concerted swoop by regulators in Britain, the
U.S. and a number of other jurisdictions.
   The proposed settlement applies to BCCI Holdings
(Luxembourg) S.A., the holding company that crowned the BCCI
group, and to its two main subsidiaries, Luxembourg-based
BCCI S.A. and Cayman Islands-based BCCI (Overseas) Ltd.
Together, these companies had branches in 41 countries
accounting for around $13 billion of the estimated $20
billion of assets that BCCI claimed before its collapse.
   The plan excludes BCCI S.A.'s subsidiary in the United
Arab Emirates where reimbursements to depositors -- who may
get as much as 80% of their money back -- will be handled
directly by the Abu Dhabi government.
   It also excludes BCCI S.A.'s Canadian subsidiary and
nearly 30 subsidiaries and affiliates outside the framework
of the two main operating units, including operations in Hong
Kong, Australia and a number of African countries. These
concerns were separately incorporated and regulated, and so
were largely unaffected by the collapse of BCCI's main
banking operations.
   The proposal doesn't affect the U.S., where liquidators
for BCCI agreed Dec. 19 to forfeit all of the bank's U.S.
assets, valued at more than $550 million, as part of a guilty
plea to all pending federal and state charges against it.
About half of the assets were to be put into a fund for
distribution to BCCI depositors in other jurisdictions.
   The proposed settlement also is independent of deposit
protection arrangements in the U.K., where depositors are
guaranteed reimbursement of 75% of their deposits up to a
maximum reimbursement of #15,000 ($26,265).
   The exact amount of money to be injected by Abu Dhabi
under the settlement will depend on the total amount of
claims ultimately admitted as being justified.
   Mr. Smouha declined to comment on speculation that Touche
Ross or the government of Abu Dhabi may sue Price Waterhouse,
the accounting firm that audited BCCI's accounts. However, he
made clear that the possibility of legal action in a number
of areas is being considered.
   Meanwhile, NBC News reported that William Casey, the
Central Intelligence Agency director in the Reagan
administration, conducted frequent secret meetings in
Washington with Agha Hasan Abedi, the founder and chairman of
BCCI. The network said the meetings may have involved BCCI's
previously reported activities to assist the U.S.-backed
rebels in Afghanistan, as well as the movement of arms to the
Contras in Nicaragua.
   The CIA, in response to earlier queries, has said that the
agency's records reveal no such meetings, although it's
possible that they wouldn't be reflected in official
appointment calendars.