International:
   Police Role in Black-on-Black Violence
   Comes to Light at South African Trial
   ----
   By Joe Davidson
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Seven police officers -- four of whom have admitted their
complicity -- are now on trial for the killings. The trial
provides one of the strongest pieces of evidence that police
have participated in the political violence that has wracked
South Africa for the past several years.
   Prosecution evidence indicates a police lieutenant, now a
captain, led efforts to eliminate certain anti-apartheid
leaders from this village of dirt trails and high grass.
Testimony also points to collusion between members of Chief
Mangosuthu Buthelezi's Inkatha organization and the South
African Police to wipe out supporters of the African National
Congress.
   The continuing bloodshed in Natal province, where Trust
Feed is located, and around Johannesburg, South Africa's
largest city, is often alleged to be linked to Inkatha
supporters. Inkatha's leadership strongly denies such
allegations. The Trust Feed court case shows "a clear working
alliance between the South African Police and the Inkatha
leadership," says John Aitchison, of the University of Natal,
who has researched political violence.
   Trust Feed is a sparse, remote village, about 20 miles
from Pietermaritzburg, Natal's capital. Sugar cane lines the
roads to the settlement, which was declared an official
"black spot" -- a location for black people in a white "group
area."
   The killings came sometime after 2 a.m. on Dec. 3, 1988.
Neighbors were gathered in a three-room, mud-walled home when
the first shots blazed through the windows. About a dozen
women were in the back with Mrs. Sibisi. Seven or eight men,
she recalls, were in the front where the shooting started.
They were the first to die. "After they shot the men, the
women asked, `what have we done?'" said Ida Radebe, who
survived several bullet wounds and spent six months in the
hospital.
   The firing continued. At one point, the 51-year-old Mrs.
Radebe says, she heard someone say, "There's someone who is
still alive." Then, she was shot in the left knee and
shoulder.
   Although the Trust Feed case is particularly stark,
several other cases involving police officers or Inkatha
members or both recently have been heard in
Pietermaritzburg's courthouse.
   -- Toti Zulu, an Inkatha organizer and former policeman,
was convicted last month in the May 1990 slaying of Rev.
Victor Sipho Africander, then chairman of the
Pietermaritzburg Council of Churches. Mr. Africander also was
a board member of the South African Council of Churches, an
organization Inkatha leaders contend supports the ANC.
   -- Sipho Madlala told an inquest he was with a South
African Defense Force hit squad that killed Mhlabunzima
Maphumulo, a traditional chief who had been denounced by Mr.
Buthelezi as pro-ANC.
   -- Two Inkatha members, Mbongani Lushozi and Ntaka
Khanyile, were sentenced to death 10 times each in November
for the October 1990 murder of 10 people. The victims were
believed by the killers to be ANC supporters, according to
the prosecution. At the time of the killings, Mr. Lushozi was
a police officer in KwaZulu, a homeland adjacent to Natal
that's controlled by the Inkatha organization. These killings
were reportedly planned in the home of Psychology Ndlovu, a
KwaZulu legislative assemblyman and Inkatha central committee
member, who also was convicted of culpable homicide in a
separate case last July.
   Mr. Buthelezi is chief minister of KwaZulu and president
of the Inkatha Freedom Party. After Mr. Ndlovu's conviction,
he told the Natal Witness that the legislator's behavior
"shamed the whole assembly." Mr. Buthelezi says that the ANC
must take some responsibility for the violence. "The ANC has
waged an ugly war against KwaZulu," he said.
   Mr. Buthelezi supporters undeniably are victims of South
African violence, too. In September, 23 Inkatha Freedom Party
members were gunned down by AK-47 fire while marching in a
township near Johannesburg. And 197 Inkatha leaders have been
assassinated in the past four years, says the Inkatha
Institute in Durban.
   But surveys by the Community Agency for Social Equity, a
Johannesburg research organization, indicate that Inkatha is
more often the alleged perpetrator. The Natal cases fuel the
widespread belief that Inkatha, often with security force
help, uses violence for political ends.
   According to prosecution documents filed in the Trust Feed
trial, one or more local Inkatha leaders, along with Brian
Mitchell, then a police lieutenant, and the late Deon
Terblanche, a police major who was subsequently murdered,
discussed police assistance in killing members of the Trust
Feed Crisis Committee, which worked for tenants.
   Inkatha leader Jerome Gabela, who represented landowners,
testified that when he complained about the committee to Mr.
Mitchell a few days before the killings, Mr. Mitchell said
there was no point in arresting committee members because
they would eventually be released. Mr. Mitchell said that "it
would be much better if they would just be killed," Mr.
Gabela testified.
   Mr. Mitchell's lawyer read a statement in court in which
Mr. Gabela, who has been offered immunity, previously said
that he and another Inkatha leader proposed to the policeman
the idea of murdering the committee activists. Four
implicated officers slept either in Mr. Gabela's home or his
mother's the night of the attack. Neither Mr. Mitchell, nor
the other defendants, have testified.
   The four policemen who admit their involvement contend
they aren't guilty because they believed they were carrying
out a valid order by their superior, Mr. Mitchell. Those four
are black special constables, often called "kitkonstabels" --
from the Afrikaans word for instant, "kit," referring to the
quick training they receive. Mr. Mitchell and the two other
officers aren't accused of direct participation in the
shootings, but allegedly knew about and tried to cover up the
murders. All three, who are white, deny the charges.
   ANC leaders and others criticize the government for being
slow to prosecute policemen allegedly involved in violence.
Mr. Aitchison, the university researcher, estimates that
despite the recent court cases in Pietermaritzburg, at least
95% of political violent crimes go unsolved.
   The prosecutions resulted from "a shift in the balance of
power," says John Jeffries, a Pietermaritzburg lawyer. "The
ANC carries a lot more weight that it did before." He also
credits President F. W. de Klerk for recent legislation that
allows the judiciary broader scope. Also, special police
teams from Pretoria have been sent to Natal to investigate
high profile cases.