AUTOMOBILES
   ----
   By Gregory A. Patterson
THOSE SHEATHS of little wooden beads that fit over car
seats have gone from novelty item to full-blown fad, say
distributors and sellers of the products. Beads are about the
hottest thing in car accessories since folding cardboard sun
shields emerged in the mid-1980s, says a spokeswoman for the
Auto Accessory Parts Association.
   Allison, an auto-accessory distributor in Livingston,
N.J., didn't begin selling the beads until last year, but now
it's filling orders to retailers in lots of 5,000, says vice
president Saul Dennison.
   The beaded seat covers showed up more than a decade ago in
cabs in Hong Kong and Taiwan. They are catching on in the
U.S. because, manufacturers say, they keep people's backs
from stiffening during long hours of driving. Chester
Frederick, owner of Fredco Industries, Lorain, Ohio, says the
beads create a massaging action as a car ambles down the
road. The American Chiropractic Association isn't sure about
that; it knows of no study into the medicinal effects of
beaded seat covers.
   But before this fad fades, marketers want to get as many
sold as possible. Fredco is marketing them to truckers and to
farmers, who use them on tractors. Allison is marketing
traditional seat covers with beads inlaid and test-marketing
the usually natural-colored beads in blue and red.
                                                                                                       

   Buyers Are Choosing
   Bags Before Brakes
                                                                                                       

   ANTI-LOCK BRAKES, the pre-eminent auto-safety feature just
two years ago, are taking a back seat to air bags in buyer's
minds.
   A recent survey by the National Association of Fleet
Administrators found that in 67% of purchases of 1992 model
cars so far, big-fleet buyers specified vehicles with air
bags. But the fleet buyers required anti-lock brakes in only
60% of their purchases. Comparable figures for earlier years
weren't available.
   That preference is hurting fleet sales of a broad range of
General Motors midsize cars that aren't equipped with air
bags, says David Lefever, NAFA executive director. Ford Motor
and Chrysler, whose midsize cars are equipped with air bags,
are the beneficiaries, he says.
   It's no wonder. "Air bags are something consumers can
physically see and understand how they work, unlike anti-lock
brakes," says Stephen Lyons, general manager of Ford's
Lincoln-Mercury division.
   These days, many consumers refuse to buy a car unless it
has at least a driver's-side air bag, says Frank Anderson, a
former president of the National Automobile Dealers
Association, so auto makers are adding air bags as standard
equipment more quickly than anti-lock brakes. GM has said it
will have air bags in all of its cars by 1994.
   But the preference for air bags is misplaced, experts say.
"Antilock brakes are something you're likely to have a
greater need for," Mr. Lyons says. Air bags deploy in only
about 4% of accidents; brakes are factors in nearly all.
   The whole idea of preferences will become moot in coming
years, with federal legislation requiring cars and minivans
to have air bags for both driver and passenger by 1998.
                                                                                                       

   Insurers Plan to Aid
   Poor Porsche Owners
                                                                                                       

   HELP IS on the way for muscle-car fans whose wallets can't
cover stiff auto-insurance premiums.
   The Porsche Club of America soon will begin marketing an
insurance plan designed to reduce insurance costs for owners
who drive their Porsches for pleasure only. Several insurers
offer this type of coverage on a state-to-state basis, but
the Porsche plan is to be offered nationwide.
   Harold Bromberg, who owns a 1985 Porsche 911 convertible,
says the plan will nearly halve his annual insurance premium
to about $500. All he must do is state that he uses another
vehicle registered to him as his principal form of automotive
transportation and that he drives his Porsche fewer than
5,000 miles a year.
   The BMW Car Club is already working on a plan similar to
Porsche's.
   GM's Pontiac division also is considering renewing a
program it tested in late 1990 that paid a portion of
deductibles of Firebird and Trans Am owners. The trial
program ended after only a few months because of the general
sales slump.
   Ford officials say they have looked at ways of helping
customers pay for insuring their performance Mustangs but
currently aren't planning to do anything.
   Mazda Motor says that although it hasn't put together such
a plan, it does solicit suggestions from insurers in
designing its cars to try to get lower insurance rates. One
suggestion prompted Mazda to move the electronic engine
controls on its Miata sports car away from the front of the
car to an area where the expensive components are less likely
to be damaged in an accident.
                                                                                                       

   Odds and Ends
                                                                                                       

   SPEEDING on local roads was more socially acceptable last
year, according to a survey of 1,987 drivers by the Roper
Organization for the Insurance Research Council. Almost a
third of the respondents said they didn't object to speeding
on local roads, up from only 20% who approved in 1990. And
when it comes to speeding on major highways, 50% of the
respondents said it was acceptable, up from 49% a year
earlier. . . . In 1991, for the first time in nine years,
white was the color of choice in all major car and truck
categories, according to Du Pont's automotive unit. But a
"rich deep green" is gaining popularity, and "turquoise/aqua"
will maintain its trendy position through the mid-1990s, Du
Pont says. Could mauve be next?