Washington Docket:
   Property Rights
   Appear Unlikely
   To Be Expanded
   ---
   Recent `Due Process' Ruling
   Shows Supreme Court's
   Judicial Self-Restraint
   ----
   By Paul M. Barrett
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Property rights are explicitly protected by the Fifth
Amendment's requirement that the government compensate those
whose property is taken for public use. One property rights
case pending before the high court provides the justices with
an opportunity to clarify when the Fifth Amendment obliges
government to pay people whose land isn't formally taken but
is diminished in value because of environmental regulation.
   Another case the court is expected to decide by early
summer involves a more controversial claim to protection for
property rights under the 14th Amendment, rather than the
Fifth Amendment, and it is to this type of claim that the
justices recently appeared unreceptive.
   The 14th Amendment case involves a lawsuit by a
development company that alleges the government of Puerto
Rico arbitrarily refused to issue it a construction permit
over a period of years. The company, PFZ Properties,
complains that Puerto Rico, a U.S. commonwealth that is
partly governed by the Constitution, violated the 14th
Amendment's "due process" clause, which states that
government may not "deprive any person of life, liberty, or
property, without due process of law."
   That provision has been given two meanings by the high
court. Its explicit, and more common, guarantee is of a fair
procedure whenever government denies life, liberty or
property. But the court has also inferred a protection of
"substantive due process." Although it may sound oxymoronic,
substantive due process has been interpreted to protect
individual liberty against certain government actions,
regardless of the type of procedures.
   From the early 1900s through 1937, the Supreme Court
invoked substantive due process to thwart government
regulation of property rights, wages and workplace
conditions. But in the wake of the Great Depression and
President Roosevelt's popular New Deal policies, the high
court reversed itself. It jettisoned the notion that it
should aggressively defend economic liberties and property
against federal and state regulation. Since then, the court
has exercised restraint when reviewing economic, health and
safety regulation challenged under the 14th Amendment.
   It is that restraint that some conservatives want to end.
They have urged the court to re-embrace economic liberty by
ruling that PFZ possesses a substantive due process right to
get its construction permit. Puerto Rico, which denies any
wrongdoing, argues that even if the permit denial were
arbitrary, PFZ's problem doesn't rise to the level of a
constitutional violation.
   Puerto Rico officials have reason to be optimistic after
the high court's decision late last month in a case involving
the death of Larry Collins, a sanitation worker in Harker
Heights, Texas. Mr. Collins died of asphyxia after entering a
manhole to unstop a sewer line. His widow sued Harker
Heights, claiming that her husband had a substantive due
process right to be free from unreasonable risks and from the
city's policy of not training its workers adequately.
   The Supreme Court ruled unanimously that whatever its
merits under state law, the Collins claim didn't state a
constitutional violation. Writing in sweeping terms, Justice
John Stevens said that the court, at least since the 1930s,
has been "reluctant to expand the concept of substantive due
process because guideposts for responsible decision-making in
this unchartered area are scarce and open-ended."
   "The doctrine of judicial self-restraint," he continued,
"requires us to exercise the utmost care whenever we are
asked to break new ground in this field." The court's
rejection of the Collins claim also "rests on the presumption
that the administration of government programs is based on a
rational decision-making process that takes account of
competing social, political and economic forces," Justice
Stevens wrote.
   Donald Ayer, a veteran Supreme Court litigator, observes
that despite the entirely different factual context, the
Collins case doesn't augur well for property rights claims
asserted under the theory of substantive due process.
   Some justices may be interested in "adding teeth" to the
Fifth Amendment's explicit protection against uncompensated
takings, says Mr. Ayer. "But there's a big difference"
between enforcing language that is actually in the
Constitution and reviving an implicit guarantee under the
14th Amendment that went out of style more than 50 years ago.
The ease with which the court rejected the Collins claim
appears to indicate little interest in such a revival.