Counterpoint:
   Oswald Was a Lone Gunman
   ----
   By David W. Belin
Not content with that major error, the Journal editorial
illustrated a lack of understanding of the overwhelming
evidence in the Warren Commission Report proving that Lee
Harvey Oswald was the lone gunman who killed President
Kennedy and who 45 minutes later killed Dallas Police Officer
J.D. Tippit. It asserts: "Anyone who wants to know what rocks
the Warren Commission left unturned, though, should not turn
to Mr. Garrison. Instead, read Edward J. Epstein, author of
`Inquest,' a critique of the Commission." Alas, Mr. Epstein
himself is a conspiracy sensationalist whose central thesis,
like "JFK," depends upon a misrepresentation of the record.
   In "Inquest," Mr. Epstein writes that it is "extremely
doubtful that the throat wound {of President Kennedy} was
caused by the first bullet to strike the President" because
Secret Service Agent Roy Kellerman, "who was in the front
seat of the President's limousine, testified that he
distinctly heard the President say, `My God, I am hit,' after
the first shot. Since the projectile that caused the throat
wound also punctured the windpipe, it is medically highly
improbable that the President could speak after he received
the throat wound."
   Although Mr. Epstein correctly quotes the testimony of
Kellerman, he does not quote the heart of the testimony of
the four other people in the presidential limousine: Secret
Service agent William Greer, Gov. John Connally, Nellie
Connally and Jacqueline Kennedy. Mr. Greer testified: "I
never heard him say anything." Nellie Connally testified that
President Kennedy "made no utterance, no cry." Gov. Connally
testified, "He never uttered a sound at all." Jacqueline
Kennedy said, "I was looking this way, to the left, and I
heard these terrible noises. And my husband never made any
sound."
   As for the Journal's allegation that the Warren Commission
"was less intent on truth than in unifying the nation," that
is hogwash. I was one of the people selected by Earl Warren
to serve as counsel to his commission. One of the most vivid
memories of my professional career is our first meeting, when
he uttered five words I will never forget: "Truth is our only
goal."
   We took him at his word. That is one of the reasons why,
after being thwarted inside the Warren Commission by the
chief justice himself, who did not want to use lie detector
tests, I went around the commission and contacted Jack Ruby's
rabbi, Hillel Silverman. I was able to persuade him to
persuade Jack Ruby to ask for a lie detector test. The test
was given and, although such tests are not 100% reliable, it
did confirm Ruby's testimony that he was not part of any
conspiracy.
   Nowhere in "JFK" does the audience hear about Ruby's
request, the results of that test, or Rabbi Silverman's
testimony that he is convinced, based on his intimate
conversations with Jack Ruby in jail, that Ruby was
conspiratorially innocent.
   Also ignored in "JFK" is the fact Robert Kennedy had
someone from the Justice Department, Howard Willens, serve
both as a counsel to the Warren Commission and as liaison
with Justice.
   Robert Kennedy wanted to know who killed his brother.
Edward Epstein asserts there was more than one gunman and the
Stone film asserts "triangulation" -- that is, two other
gunmen firing, in addition to Oswald (although Mr. Stone
would have us believe that Oswald did not fire a rifle or
pistol at anyone -- not even Tippit). Surely, Robert Kennedy
would have wanted every gunman brought to justice. But that
common-sense conclusion is never raised in "JFK" or
"Inquest."
   Similarly, "JFK" and Mr. Epstein ignore the fact there
were six witnesses who identified Oswald as the gunman they
saw at the Tippit murder scene or running away from it with
gun in hand. He was caught with the murder weapon, which he
pulled out when police approached him in the Texas movie
theater.
   The Tippit murder is the Rosetta Stone to the solution of
the assassination. "JFK" ignores virtually all the salient
facts of this murder that conclusively show Oswald's guilt.
Mr. Epstein's "Inquest" also ignores the massive weight of
the evidence that shows Oswald killed Tippit.
   If the Journal had been true to its lofty standards, it
would have gone to the bedrock of the Warren Commission
Report and exposed some of the more than 100 major lies and
coverups in "JFK." Mr. Stone repeatedly uses the same kind of
selectivity as Mr. Epstein in misrepresenting the overall
record, and these misrepresentations are compounded by
promotional appearances of "JFK" actors on TV.
   If more examples are needed to show the depth of the
Warren Commission Report, one can turn to the well-known
picture of Oswald holding a pistol and a rifle. Oswald
claimed he never owned a rifle, and "JFK" joins with Oswald
in charging that the picture was a fabrication -- Oswald's
head placed on someone else's body holding a rifle and a gun.
   In fact, there is absolute proof that the picture is
genuine because Oswald's camera was found. There are minute
differences in the manufacturing process of every camera. If
one has a negative, it can be scientifically determined with
100% accuracy -- just as in the case of a fingerprint --
whether that negative came from that camera, to the exclusion
of all other cameras in the world. That photograph, indeed,
came from Oswald's camera. Why does "JFK" ignore that
evidence?
   I believe the remaining small portion of unreleased Warren
Commission files and everything in the CIA files about the
assassination should be released to the public. In 1975 I
filed Freedom of Information Act requests to that effect.
   In fact, though, all the documents needed to analyze this
case are already available. I look forward to the time when
newspapers such as The Wall Street Journal take the time to
examine fairly the Warren Commission Report in depth. Indeed,
not only was truth our only goal, but we found that truth:
Lee Harvey Oswald was the lone gunman who killed President
Kennedy and Officer J.D. Tippit on that tragic Friday
afternoon in Dallas, Nov. 22, 1963.
   ---
   Mr. Belin served as counsel to the Warren Commission and
executive director of the Rockefeller Commission
investigating the CIA. He is the author of "Final Disclosure:
The Full Truth About the Assassination of President Kennedy."