They Say the Way Is Being Paved
   For Another Cover-Up of History
   ----
   By Robin Goldwyn Blumenthal
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
"No other city destroys its history. Why this city does, I
don't know," says Anne Compoccia. She is chairwoman of
Community Board One, which represents the neighborhood and
has asked the city to guarantee that cobblestone streets will
be preserved in historical districts.
   Cobblestones last, Ms. Compoccia says. "The people who
started this city weren't stupid." Another area resident,
Carole DeSaram, says the stones not only save the city
millions in maintenance costs, but also mean "preserving a
community."
   For many years, the city required utilities who dug in
historical districts to put back the streets as they found
them -- stone by granite stone. Community Board One district
manager Paul Goldstein says the city also required other
contractors to restore cobblestones. The city denies that.
   In either case, the board says New York no longer is
protecting the stones. Mr. Goldstein says utilities and
contractors now can choose to pave over cobblestones. In most
cases, he fears, they will.
   The city, which has a few other pressing matters to
consider, such as how to close the current $357 million
budget gap, says the policy stands, at least for utilities.
But the city doesn't require itself to restore paving stones
after reconstruction work. The city says it won't pave a
street over community objections unless the stones presents a
safety hazard.
   The stones are hefty in weight -- 12 pounds each -- and
cost: A recent reconstruction at Mercer and Greene streets
cost $1 million more than asphalt.
   Not everyone in the neighborhood thinks cobblestones
should go unpaved. Waring Abbott, a commercial photographer
in Tribeca who led a successful counter-campaign a year ago
to have Franklin Street paved, says the stones cause
accidents and are noisy.
   "I love cobblestones, but this is not the kind of economy
where we need to spend a quarter of a million dollars" on
them, he says. He filed a freedom-of-information request to
determine that paving a block with asphalt would cost only
$20,000.