Wednesday's Markets:
   Stocks Set New Highs
   As Bond Prices Drop
   ----
   By Douglas R. Sease
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Computer-guided program buying and purchases by traders
who had sold stocks short in bets that prices would fall
helped lift the market. Some investors had been hoping that
prices temporarily would fall sharply, giving them an
opportunity to buy more, and cheaper, stocks. But, traders
said, a drop or even a pause in the market instead attracts
more buyers.
   Underlying yesterday's rally was a fundamental conviction
that the economy is turning up, said Peter Canelo, chief
strategist at County NatWest.
   He said there have been several clues in recent days to
suggest that the economy is picking up steam. Broad measures
of the nation's money supply are growing and industrial
prices, lead by lumber and metals, are rising, he said. When
combined with an upturn in housing starts and the likelihood
that Washington will provide additional impetus to the
housing industry in the form of tax breaks, the stage is set
for a recovery, he said.
   This cheerful outlook was certainly evident in the stock
market yesterday. In the over-the-counter market, technology
and retailing stocks set a blistering pace for the rest of
the market. "Those are strong leaders and it says to me that
the rest of the market will catch up and go higher, too," Mr.
Canelo said.
   Even though cyclical and growth stocks both rose
yesterday, the fact that the Dow industrials continue to
outperform the SP 500 is telltale evidence of confidence
that a recovery is pending, Mr. Canelo said. Because the Dow
industrials are more heavily weighted with cyclical issues
than the SP 500 is, he predicted the Dow industrials could
reach 3600 this year while the SP climbs another 5% to 10%
to a top of about 450.
   Indeed, he suggested that investors may be having second
thoughts about the desirability of further stimulative
interest rate cuts. Last week the reaction was negative when
the Federal Reserve didn't cut short-term interest rates in
the wake of a disappointing report on January employment. But
if the economy is beginning to accelerate, such cuts could do
more harm than good, he said.
   "Ironically, the fact that the Fed didn't cut rates is
probably good news," he said. "If they had continued cutting
rates and the bond market perceived that the cuts were
excessive, long-term interest rates would rise and take
mortgage rates up with them. That could stall the housing
industry, which is one of the main engines of a recovery."
   While the first two legs of the Treasury's three-part
quarterly refunding operation had only so-so results, Mr.
Canelo said that investors appear to feel that bond yields
are stabilizing. "The Treasury auction hasn't gone as well as
some investors hoped last week, but it is going," he said.
"The yield levels are satisfactory."
   Although he expects cyclical stocks to continue to outpace
growth stocks for the remainder of the year, Mr. Canelo said
stabilizing or falling interest rates could drive prices of
both cyclical and growth stocks higher. "With the Fed taking
a wait-and-see attitude, the bond market feels more
comfortable about the inflation outlook," he said. "In that
case, some of the utility stocks and the growth issues can
join the party."
   Still, there may be room for disappointment. The most
important part of the Treasury's quarterly refunding comes
today with the sale of $10 billion of 30-year bonds. If
investors don't bid enthusiastically, long-term interest
rates could rise further.
   And a big batch of economic news is coming out that could
upset investors. Today, the Commerce Department will report
on retail sales for January, and car makers will release
sales figures for early February. Tomorrow, the Labor
Department releases its producer price index for January.
Reports on industrial production and business inventories are
also due then.
   In major market action:
                                                                                                       

   Stock prices hit new highs in heavy trading. Volume
totaled 230.2 million shares on the New York Stock Exchange,
where 1,096 issues advanced and 648 fell.
   Bond prices retreated. The Treasury's benchmark 30-year
issue lost more than a quarter of a point, or more than $2.50
for each $1,000 face amount. The yield on the issue rose to
7.81%.
   The dollar rose modestly. In late New York trading the
currency was quoted at 1.6074 marks and 127.45 yen compared
to 1.5945 marks and 127.40 yen Tuesday.