Commodities:
   Gold Bugs Sing the Blues as Price Swoons to 1986 Level
   ----
   By Anita Raghavan and Neil Behrmann
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
With inflation holding at a low rate, gold has little
allure as a hedge against rising prices. Gold bugs,
anticipating an economic recovery this year, had predicted
that inflation would accelerate and that gold would rally.
   But investors are staying out of gold, says Douglas
McCormick, manager of the precious metals department at the
Bank of Nova Scotia in Toronto. Investors are asking, he
says, "why should we buy now, if we are going to be hit with
more selling?"
   Meanwhile, lower gold prices are encouraging to stock and
bond investors, who like low inflation and keep an eye on
gold as an early-warning signal of inflationary trends.
Yesterday, the government reported that consumer prices rose
0.3% in February, a benign increase that had been expected.
   Gold has been edging lower for a week, amid signs that the
U.S. economy is rebounding but not inflation. However, the
spark for yesterday's sell-off was an early indication that
in South Africa -- the world's largest producer of gold --
the government would receive a big mandate in yesterday's
nationwide referendum. Jitters about the referendum, in which
whites were voting on whether to share power with the black
majority, had tempered the decline.
   The sell-off began overnight as Middle Eastern central
bankers actively liquidated some of their holdings to raise
cash, analysts said. "The market was taken by surprise by the
scale of selling," said Edwin Arnold, precious metals analyst
at Merrill Lynch in London. The London price sank more than
$4 an ounce to $339 at the afternoon fixing.
   Selling spilled into the New York market when it opened,
with April gold futures dropping as low as $337.30 at one
point before recovering to finish at $340.60 an ounce, down
$3.30. Analysts said commodity funds at first joined in the
selling, but then began taking profits in their short
positions by buying offsetting contracts. This buying lifted
the New York market from its lows.
   Platinum, another precious metal that is produced heavily
in South Africa, also slumped. Platinum futures for April
delivery, the most actively traded contract, tumbled $7.90 an
ounce to $352.60.
   Where gold goes from here is anybody's guess. Andrew
Addison, publisher of the Addison Report, a Franklin, Mass.,
investment newsletter, said the speed at which prices are
dropping suggests that gold is "oversold and is at levels
that would precede a rally. But to have a sustained rally,"
he added, the market needs to stabilize and stop falling.
   Actually, destabilization is what some gold bugs are
hoping for. They say a "trigger event" -- such as, one
suggested, a crash in the Japanese stock market -- would
remind forgetful investors of gold's age-old appeal.
   "Gold is the only thing that has ultimate value in the
final analysis," says Lawrence Heim, publisher of the Heim
Investment Letter, who still predicts gold will climb to
$8,000 an ounce during the 1990s. And over the next 12
months, he asserts that gold will rebound to $800 an ounce.
   Mr. Heim argues that paper money is being printed so
rapidly it is worthless, while gold is a tangible commodity
that investors can turn to in times of financial duress.
   In other commodity markets yesterday:
                                                                                                       

   GRAINS AND SOYBEANS: Grain futures prices firmed as
momentum appeared to grow in Washington for a favorable
response to a request for more export credits from the
Commonwealth of Independent States. Congressional leaders
expressed support yesterday for the request for credits,
which Russia and other former Soviet republics would use to
buy U.S. grain. This could provide the political impetus the
Bush administration needs to grant the request, said Daniel
W. Basse, market research director for AgResource Co.,
Chicago. Russia has asked for $500 million in export credits,
Ukraine for $300 million and other republics for $500
million. In trading at the Chicago Board of Trade, the
soybean contract for July delivery rose 2.25 cents to $6.0450
a bushel; the July wheat contract was up 0.25 cent to $3.7150
a bushel; and the May corn contract climbed 0.75 cent to
$2.70 a bushel.
                                                                                                       

   ENERGY: In late trading in crude oil futures, a sell-off
was followed by a rally. The net result at the close was a
modest gain of nine cents a barrel for crude oil for April
delivery, which settled at $19.24. May crude was up seven
cents to $19.35 a barrel. At these prices, the April and May
crudes remained above the psychologically important level of
$19 a barrel and within the range established by last
Friday's rally. There was little news to affect oil markets
yesterday. But providing some support for futures prices was
the expectation among traders that the industry's latest
figures on U.S. fuel inventories would show bullish
drawdowns. The report, released by the American Petroleum
Institute after the close of futures trading, showed only
modest declines last week in inventories of gasoline and
heating oil but a major drop in crude oil stocks. According
to the API report, crude oil inventories fell 4.8 million
barrels last week, a much larger decline than had been
anticipated.
                                                                                                       

   COFFEE: Futures prices fell. Coffee for March delivery
ended at 72.25 cents a pound, down 0.30 cent. The actively
traded May contract finished at 72.85 cents, down 0.55 cent.
"Traders were squaring books" ahead of Brazil's policy
statement, said Sandra Kaul, an analyst at Lehman Brothers.
Brazil is supposed to release its coffee policy today and,
even though many analysts are expecting Brazil to agree to
negotiations for an international quota system for coffee
production, some traders were hedging their bets by selling
futures yesterday.