Philippine Airlines, Qantas Find Few
   Are Interested in Privatization Bidding
   ----
   By Susan Carey
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
As for Qantas, both the government and the state-owned
carrier say they got a "good response" from a range of
potential bidders for the 49% stake to be sold, probably by
mid-1992. But they won't specify how many parties have signed
confidentiality agreements so they can gain the detailed
financial information that is supposed to be supplied shortly
by Canberra. Australian news reports have said there are
seven such groups, but only three -- all foreign airlines --
have made their intentions public.
   This skittishness should come as no surprise. Although PAL
has rebounded from abysmal results in the year ended last
March, the airline has serious deficiencies. And Qantas,
while operationally well-run, is unproductive and lacks
domestic route rights.
   But more than their specific problems and opportunities,
the initially lukewarm response to the two carriers' share
offers may reflect the beginning of a world-wide
reconsideration of the benefits of airline alliances. Some of
the recent cross-airline equity investments have been
crashing disappointments. Others simply haven't delivered the
desired "synergies" and cost-savings.
   However, there are a few serious shoppers for PAL and
Qantas.
   In Manila, four Filipino-led groups have thus far passed
the first stage of due-diligence requirements set by the
government committee charged with privatizing PAL.
   At least three of the existing groups are believed to
include foreign airlines among their members, but it isn't
clear whether the overseas carriers ultimately would take up
shares. As one overseas airline with a shopping list noted:
"There are other forms of association besides equity."
   Indeed, it isn't even certain that they are interested.
Privately, Cathay Pacific Airways, headquartered in Hong
Kong, says it has turned away a number of carriers looking
for investors. A recent announcement that one of the probable
PAL bidder groups, led by AB Capital & Investment Corp.,
offered to sell 10% to 40% of its stake to Korean Air was
played down in Seoul. "It's more an impossibility than a
possibility," says a Korean Air spokesman. "The chance is
slim."
   NWA Inc.'s Northwest Airlines, mentioned as a partner in
the bidding group led by Philippine Commercial International
Bank, wouldn't comment. A spokeswoman in Minneapolis said,
"We talk to a lot of airlines. Nothing has been offered." But
sources familiar with the situation in Manila said some sort
of deal between the bank and Northwest is imminent.
   British Airways' name has been mentioned in connection
with a PAL bid by a third group, ever since British Airways
visited Manila last September to inspect PAL's facilities and
study its operations. British Airways declined to comment on
its intentions.
   The group with which the British carrier is thought to be
associated is led by Banahaw International Management Corp.,
known as Bimacor. Also involved are some PAL pilots, Spectrum
Capital and Rolls-Royce & Partners. This group is working
toward a linkup with another group, led by Union Bank of the
Philippines and Hong Kong's Peregrine Investment Holdings
Ltd.
   Claude Charles, executive director of Peregrine, confirmed
that the two groups are near agreement on a joint bid. He
also said a Citicorp unit called Cititrust is involved, as
well as a British Airways' affiliate called Speedwing.
   The Philippine government's airline-privatization
committee has set a minimum cash price of $150 million for
the 67% stake. Foreigners would be allowed to take up to 40%
of the total shares. But the cash isn't the real goal.
According to a source familiar with Manila's thinking, the
idea is to have bidders align themselves with banks that hold
sovereign Philippine debt. That debt could be traded at face
value for shares in PAL, and the banks could then value that
equity as they wish. The group that can produce the biggest
debt swap will win -- if it also can bring some airline
expertise to the party, even through something as simple as a
consulting contract.
   In Australia, current political convulsions seem to be
distracting the government from its task of selling 49% of
Qantas. Already the timetable for issuing the financial
details to would-be investors is running at least two months
late, Richard Green, an airline consultant for Deloitte Ross
Tohmatsu in Sydney, said. And with the defeat of Prime
Minister Bob Hawke by Paul Keating and the ensuing tumult in
the Labor Party, old political disagreements about the Qantas
sale may be rekindled, Mr. Green said.
   But in Canberra, the Australian Ministry of Finance said
that things are on schedule and that it expects soon to issue
the financial memorandum for prospective bidders.
   Qantas itself isn't saying which companies or groups have
expressed preliminary interest in its shares. But at least
three carriers have publicly stated that they are studying
the possibility. They are Northwest, Singapore Airlines
(SIA), and, most recently, Japan Airlines. Air New Zealand
has hinted that it may be interested.
   JAL's chairman, Susumu Yamaji, said Qantas's chief
executive, John Ward, asked him more than six months ago to
buy some stock. "We said we will buy a small amount, just to
keep friendly," Mr. Yamaji said. Qantas made a similar
request of JAL that resulted in the Japanese carrier buying a
7.5% stake in Air New Zealand in 1989. Qantas bought 20% of
Air New Zealand at the time.
   Mr. Yamaji also said JAL has exchanged information with
SIA about the Qantas shares. He didn't rule out a joint bid
between the two carriers, but he said there are "many
possibilities" and said he doesn't know what SIA's intentions
are. But it is worth noting that JAL and SIA recently took
small stakes in an aircraft-maintenance unit of Singapore
Aerospace Ltd.
   Qantas, which has been hammered by the deep recession in
Australia, has laid off 3,600 workers, or 18%, in a radical
cost-cutting exercise. Yet the carrier's regular operations
in the year ended June 30 lost 158.6 million Australian
dollars (US$120 million), widening from a loss of 119.7
million Australian dollars a year earlier. Excluding
financing costs, profit from regular operations jumped 47% in
the latest year, to 196.8 million Australian dollars. And
with gains from aircraft sales, net in the year reached 44.3
million Australian dollars, up from 12.1 million Australian
dollars the year before.