Movies:
   Sony's Holiday Films Surprise Skeptics
   ----
   By Laura Landro
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
"We finished the year in first place with 24 films," says
Peter Guber, the ebullient chairman and chief executive who
took the helm of Sony Pictures in 1989. "When we came here
three years ago, the combined companies had released 37 films
for a total market share of 9.3%, dead last among the
majors." Mr. Guber proudly reels off other statistics: 40% of
the overall box office sales for the holiday in North
America, four pictures that sold more than $100 million of
tickets last year, eight Golden Globe nominations for
"Bugsy," and so on.
   The honchos that put Mr. Guber in charge are happy, too.
"Sony is extremely pleased with all the operations of Sony
Pictures Entertainment this year," says Michael P. Schulhof,
vice chairman of Sony USA, the parent for all of Sony Corp.'s
operations in the U.S. Even the company's Loews Theater unit,
which is suffering from an overall downturn in the theatrical
exhibition industry, "turned in an above average peformance,"
he says. Although Sony doesn't break out its operations and
Mr. Schulhof declines to give specific figures, he says the
operating profit for Sony Pictures will "more than double"
for the fiscal year ending in March.
   But substantial earnings will be harder for Sony to come
by. By the box-office measure alone, "Hook" clearly ranks as
a hit movie. But with its $80 million-plus production cost,
sizable marketing expenditures and rich profit-sharing
agreements, it has a long way to go before it brings in the
"tremendous profits" Mr. Guber promises are in the bag.
   Industry analysts say "Hook" is likely to do at least $115
to $125 million at the U.S. box office; Mr. Guber thinks $125
million is a reasonable estimate. The movie is the kind of
film that could easily do even bigger business overseas,
where Mr. Guber projects at least $150 million in ticket
sales. (Studios typically get about half the box office
receipts, with the balance going to theaters.)
   Under the agreement with Sony, Hook's stars and its
director, Steven Spielberg, get about 40% of Sony's gross
revenue from all markets -- theaters, video, cable and free
television. Industry executives have calculated that the
studio would break even at about $200 million in worldwide
revenue -- and make a profit of about $40 million if a
whopping $335 million in world-wide revenue returned to the
studio. Mr. Guber declines to discuss actual numbers but
insists "the way this deal is structured we are comfortable
that we will have a very favorable return on this picture."
   To increase its chances of big revenue from the video
market, Tri-Star is likely to release "Hook" on video as a
so-called sell-through title, which means that it will be
priced to sell at about $25 a tape. Many cassettes are priced
at about $100 because they are targeted at video stores,
which will rent them out. But in the lower price range and
with its appeal to children, who watch films over and over,
"Hook" may well succeed as a collectible tape. Mr. Guber says
Hook's success in theaters and on video will drive its
success in cable, free television and pay-per-view markets in
the U.S. and abroad.
   Mr. Guber acknowledges that Sony should have kept Hook's
costs under better control and shaped its deal "so there were
more corridors of profitability for us." But he says he would
do the deal again, and "I would do another deal like it every
year" if the potential for a hit was there. "When all is said
and done, this is a hit-driven business, and a movie like
`Hook' is the locomotive that gets the rest of the train
through the tunnel," he says.
   For all the hype surrounding Sony's high-cost films, "My
Girl," the least-promoted movie of the lot, is the biggest
financial success in Sony's basket thus far. Phil Garfinkle,
senior vice president of the box office analysis concern
Entertainment Data Inc., says the movie has "about run its
course" in the U.S. but could still do $60 million. The movie
also appears to have a shot at overseas success; loosely
translated as "Meine Erste Liebe," it opened to about $2
million on 299 screens in Germany.
   "Prince of Tides" got mixed reviews but continues to sell
tickets; the Barbra Streisand-Nick Nolte film was still the
third-best selling movie last weekend and could benefit next
weekend from the three-day holiday. Columbia, which produced
the film, continue to advertise it heavily and is counting on
some Academy Award nominations on Feb. 19.
   More problematic is "Bugsy," which received glowing
reviews and a lot of award nominations. Tri-Star is promoting
the movie's critical success in its ads for the film, but so
far it has taken in just $30 million and cost $40 million.
The movie was in 10th place last weekend, eclipsed by the
national release of other adult-oriented films like "Grand
Canyon" from News Corp.'s Fox studio, "JFK" and "The Last Boy
Scout" from Time Warner Inc.'s Warner Bros. unit-and "Prince
of Tides."
   Some critics say Columbia and Sony cannibalized their own
movies by opening two adult-oriented films like "Bugsy" and
"Prince" at the same time, particularly when "My Girl" and
"Hook" were in the market attracting some adult viewers, too.
But the company had little choice; both Ms. Streisand and
Warren Beatty, the star of "Bugsy," were eager to make the
cut for 1991 Oscar nominations, according to company
insiders.
   In any case, the jury is still out on both movies. "
`Prince' and `Bugsy' could limp along until Feb. 19 and get
shots in the arm from the Academy," says Mr. Garfinkle of
Entertainment Data. "They could be in for the long run."
   Sony's two studios won't release any other films
nationally right away that would compete with their current
crop. But the company is convinced it has a strong lineup for
1992, starting with the February release of Columbia's
long-awaited "Radio Flyer," which has been postponed several
times, and Tri-Star's March opening of "Basic Instinct," a
psychological thriller with some unusual romantic elements
that stars Michael Douglas.
   Also in early spring, Columbia opens "Gladiators," a
gritty movie about underground boxing in Chicago, while
Tri-Star's releases include "Thunderheart," starring Sam
Shepard and Val Kilmer. Columbia has the more impressive
summer lineup, with "Mo Money" from black filmmaker Damon
Wayans; "A League of Their Own," the Penny Marshall-directed
film about an all-female baseball team starring Tom Hanks,
Geena Davis and Madonna; "Single White Female," starring
Jennifer Jason Leigh and Bridget Fonda; and Francis Ford
Coppola's "Dracula: The Untold Story."