International:
   Russian Official
   Warns Production
   Could Drop 20%
   ----
   By Laurie Hays
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Mr. Gaidar said most of Russian President Boris Yeltsin's
advisers agree on the economic program, but differ on the
perceived lack of protection for people who can't afford
higher prices and the dangerously steep production decline.
   While production lags, store shelves stay empty and prices
remain beyond the reach of many Russians. Also, the state
monopolies haven't been broken up and show no signs of
lowering their prices. Mr. Gaidar said the government plans
drastic measures to boost production, but he didn't give
details. He did say it would take a long time to set up
businesses that can compete with the monopolies.
   The conservative Rossiiskaya Gazeta newspaper, quoting the
state statistics committee, said yesterday that oil and coal
production were still falling while a crisis was developing
in the metals sector. It also said light industrial
production fell by 15% to 30% in the first 19 days of
January, while deliveries of meat, cereals and milk fell by a
third or more.
   Mr. Gaidar defended his decision to free prices before
privatizing industry, saying there could be no free market
with controlled prices. Some economists say the government
should have sold off state enterprises before freeing prices,
arguing that there is no incentive for companies to cut
prices if they have no competition.
   Mr. Gaidar told a news conference that he met with
American bankers and government officials in the U.S. last
week to discuss a $5 billion to $6 billion
ruble-stabilization fund. He said there was increased U.S.
support for such a fund, but it is too early to set one up
because of Russia's economic instability.
   Meanwhile, efforts will continue to stabilize the ruble
and bring the exchange rate to about 25 rubles to the dollar
from the current 110 rubles, Mr. Gaidar said. He said the
central bank had already intervened and if it weren't for the
bank's efforts the exchange rate might be as high as 400
rubles to the dollar because of the shortage of hard
currency.