REAL ESTATE
   ----
   By Jim Carlton
WIDER availability of balloon loans for residential
mortgages is bringing out Americans' gambling streak.
   Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp., or Freddie Mac, says it
bought, and repackaged as securities, $12.47 billion in
balloon mortgages last year, more than seven times the 1990
amount. At Federal National Mortgage Association, or Fannie
Mae, the figure rose 22% to $10 billion in the 12 months
ended last November.
   Balloon loans have become much more common in the past two
years, since Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac agreed to start
buying them from lenders. There are two main types:
seven-year loans for as much as a full percentage point below
the prevailing 30-year fixed rate, with an option to
refinance as 23-year fixed-rate loans; and mortgages with a
low fixed rate for the first five years that convert to
adjustable-rate loans.
   Darrell and Cheryl Taylor recently took out a five-year
balloon mortgage at 7.25%, with one point, to refinance the
home they bought last summer in Carbondale, Ill., with a
9.75% fixed-rate loan. "I get my money back on closing costs
in the first year and then save $150 every month after that,"
says Mr. Taylor, a university professor. "After five years, I
assume I will sell and move up."
   Balloon holders gamble that they can sell, or that
interest rates won't rise much, before their low-rate period
ends. In the Northeast, however, some people who took out
balloon loans in the '80s have been trapped by the weak
housing market, unable to sell, refinance or meet higher
monthly payments. The result: delinquencies and foreclosures.
   Lenders who keep the loans also gamble rates won't rise
much, since they make the loans at only about a percentage
point above their cost, roughly half the margin for
conventional loans. Many lenders eliminate the risk by
selling their balloon loans to Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac,
says Angelo Mozilo, president of Countrywide Funding, a
mortgage banker in Pasadena, Calif.
   Though this transfers the interest-rate risk to the
federally chartered corporations, Janet R. Shatz, Fannie
Mae's vice president for marketing, says the loan expirations
are so distant, "it gives us a comfort that that's a
long-term horizon." Moreover, she says, many balloon holders
are corporate transferees and military personnel, among those
most likely to move.
                                                                                                       

   Potential Buyers Appear
   Put Off by FHA Rules
                                                                                                       

   THE FEDERAL Housing Administration, long a financing
bastion for home buyers of modest means, is losing its
reputation for easy affordability.
   Regulations that took effect last July limit the amount of
closing costs that buyers can finance with an FHA loan. They
also add a monthly mortgage-insurance premium (0.5% of
monthly payments, for up to eight years) to a 3.8% up-front
insurance fee (which can still be financed). The regulations
were enacted by Congress after an audit found that the FHA
had lost $1.4 billion in loan foreclosures in 1989.
   The limits on closing costs increased the cash burden of
buying a home by about $1,000, while the new insurance
premium adds about $32 a month on a typical mortgage of
$75,000.
   The higher costs appear to be deterring prospective
buyers. An analysis by the Mortgage Bankers Association shows
the volume of new FHA loans fell 12% in the second half of
1991 from a year earlier. In the same period, Veterans
Administration loans rose 7%, and low-down-payment loans by
private lenders rose 45%.
   Under the new rules, "first-time homeowners with minimal
equity . . . fall through the cracks, exacerbating the
affordability problem," says Mr. Mozilo, the Countrywide
Funding president, who is also head of the mortgage bankers
group.
   Federal officials say the lower FHA loan volume was in
line with the national housing slump, and they don't see a
link to the rules. Legislation pending in Congress would
review the issue.
                                                                                                       

   Fannie Mae Falters
   In Bid to Aid Builders
                                                                                                       

   AT LAST year's convention of the National Association of
Home Builders, officials from Federal National Mortgage
Association triumphantly announced they would set aside $100
million for loans to troubled home builders. At this year's
convention, they admitted the program so far has been a
failure.
   Fannie Mae had planned to put up as much as half of the
money in a builder's loan, with the balance provided by a
bank or thrift. But for Fannie Mae to participate, the lender
had to reach the 15% federal limit for the percentage of
total capital it could lend to one borrower: If a builder
already had $10 million in loans from a thrift with $100
million in capital, it could get Fannie Mae funds only if the
thrift lent it an additional $5 million.
   But lenders considered that requirement so restrictive,
Fannie Mae officials now say, that only one loan was made in
the program's first 12 months.
   Last month, HUD Secretary Jack Kemp relaxed requirements
so Fannie Mae can put up funds without the lender having to
reach the 15% limit. "Hopefully, this will start it up," says
Larry H. Dale, who runs the program for Fannie Mae.
                                                                                                       

   Odds and Ends
                                                                                                       

   FIRST-TIME home buyers accounted for 45.1% of last year's
U.S. home sales, their highest share in more than a decade,
according to a survey by Chicago Title  Trust. . . .
Real-estate auctions may hit a record $2 billion this year,
with the federal government's Resolution Trust Corp.
accounting for as much as half of the total, according to JBS
Associates, a consulting and auction firm in Chicago.