Economy:
   Consumer Confidence Hits 17-Year Low,
   But Retailers Say Fight Is Far From Lost
   ---
   Buyers Aren't Charging In,
   Stores Note, but Things
   Could Be Much Worse
   ----
   By Lawrence Ingrassia
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
At Armin Koch Inc., a Milwaukee home furnishings store,
sales "sure as heck are up significantly" -- 40% in January
and 15% this month from the year-earlier period, says Jim
Koch, the owner. He says the "real kicker" is that people now
are buying big-ticket items such as sofas, recliners and
leather products.
   "I can't figure it out," he says.
   As some economists suggest, it can be hazardous to read
too much into what consumers are saying, as opposed to what
they are doing. While few retailers are faring as well as
Armin Koch -- and some say sales, in fact, remain terrible --
many merchants who were called yesterday said that things
really aren't so bad.
   Despite the Conference Board's findings, the mood of
customers has improved, many say -- with a caveat. "Is
business better? I would say yes," says Joe Baum, managing
partner for the Rainbow Room, the famed nightspot at New
York's Rockefeller Center. "Is it as good as it could be? I
would say no."
   Many retailers, in fact, are puzzled by the latest
consumer confidence rating. "I wouldn't have guessed it,"
says Larry Cox, sales manager of Ted's Aqua Marine in
Indianapolis. Sales are up 30% this winter from a year ago at
Ted's, which sells moderately priced boats. "The boating
industry feels the recession is bottoming out, and we feel
it's on its way back up," he says, albeit from a terrible
year in 1991.
   Bill Hovey, sales manager for a lawn and garden equipment
dealer in Clive, Iowa, says attendance at the Des Moines home
and garden show last week rose about 5% to 50,000. "There
obviously are problems in some areas, but what I've seen
isn't all that bad," he says. "Everyone was selling like
crazy."
   Of course, sales gains in some cases aren't as robust as
they seem, because they compare with a depressed year-earlier
period when the recession and Persian Gulf War kept customers
away. Vehicle sales rose 6.1% in mid-February from an anemic
period in 1991, well below the increases of 23% in early
Feburary and 11.4% in late January.
   And some merchants have boosted sales by cutting prices.
One of the Rainbow Room's dining rooms, for example, has
lowered its cover charge to $20 from $35 and offered cheaper
meals on Sundays. Other spending reflects penny-pinching.
Anthony Staffier, manager of a Boston sporting and outdoors
store, says increased sales of camping equipment reflect the
fact that "camping is traditionally seen as a cheaper
alternative to a vacation."
   Moreover, many retailers could be benefiting from rivals
being forced out of business. Action Sports, a ski and
mountain bike dealer in Old Saybrook, Conn., says business in
February was up 30%. One reason: Several nearby competitors
have closed, and Action is now the only ski store for 20
miles in any direction. "We've picked up the slack," says
store manager Leslie Flott.
   Despite improved sales at some retailers, others aren't
faring so well.
   Paul Whitman, manager of butcher shop Fischer Brothers 
Leslie in Manhattan, says sales are down 20% to 30% from just
over a year ago because some customers have lost jobs. "We
used to get yuppie families with two incomes who'd come in
and buy a lot of the prepared foods. Now they're cooking
stuff at home because there's someone home to cook," he says.
   And some regions are faring worse than others. The mood is
glum in California, where the economy is in the dumps. Mike
Adray, vice president of electronic appliance stores in
Orange, Calif., reports an "across-the-board" slowdown in
sales, with only video products holding steady. "The fear
feeds the situation," he said. "If people are afraid to spend
money, the economy is never going to get stimulated." Sales
last month were "as bad as January {1991}, when war broke out
and sales were down considerably."
   At Geary's of Beverly Hills, a Beverly Hills, Calif.,
specialty store for china, silver and home accessories,
company President Bruce Meyer describes the sales drop as
"pretty unbelievable." He estimates that overall sales for
the past six months are down nearly 10%, despite Geary's
affluent clientele.
   "We always thought of ourselves as being above it all in
Beverly Hills," he said. "It's hard for us to take. People
are just being cautious."
   (See related story: "Bleak Labor Market Is Cited By
Analysts for Plunge In Index of Sentiment" -- WSJ Feb. 26,
1992)