International:
   Cadbury Schweppes Will Buy Division
   Of Giant Beverage Company in Mexico
   ----
   By Dianna Solis
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The best known mineral-water label of Valores
Industriales, or Visa, is its Penafiel plain and flavored
drinks. While Visa operates the world's largest Coca-Cola
franchise, its "homegrown" flagship beverages are Carta
Blanca, Superior and Tecate beers.
   The sale marks another move in the complex restructuring
of the empire of "Don" Eugenio Garza Laguera, whose Garza
Sada family has long been a synonym for Mexican capitalism.
Proceeds from the mineral-water sale will be used to pare
down debt acquired in Mr. Garza Laguera's comeback as a
banker. He was ousted in 1982 from Mexico's third-largest
bank, following bank nationalizations. In October, Mr. Garza
Laguera led investors in a winning bid of $2.9 billion for a
56% stake in Mexico's second-largest bank, Bancomer S.A.
   Mr. Garza Laguera started a financial holding company for
the universal bank and related financial services companies.
Known as Grupo Financiero Bancomer S.A., it's separate from
Visa. However, Mr. Garza Laguera is chairman of both.
   Visa's principal subsidiary is Fomento Economico Mexicano,
or Femsa, which trades separately and far more widely on the
Mexican stock exchange and as an American depositary receipt
in the U.S. Femsa stockholders took on $600 million of equity
in Grupo Financiero Bancomer through a stock-swap option
early this month. Femsa's proceeds from the sale to Cadbury
Schweppes will be used to pare down this debt, said Alfredo
Livas, Femsa's finance director.
   Grupo Financiero Bancomer completed this week the
oversubscribed, largely private placement of $1.1 billion of
its shares on international markets.
   Other Mexican businesses are going abroad for new capital
as well. Yesterday, Mexico's largest construction company,
Empresas ICA Sociedad Controladora S.A., said it's preparing
to go public with three simultaneous offerings on U.S.,
Mexican and international stock markets.
   ICA said it expects the 25 million shares it will sell in
the three offerings to fetch between $14 and $16 apiece,
giving the offering an estimated value of from $350 million
to $400 million. The offering is expected to begin in early
April, the company said.
   The U.S. part of the offering will consist of 8,400,000
American depositary shares, which have been approved for
listing on the New York Stock Exchange. Morgan Stanley  Co.
is the lead manager of the U.S. offering.
   At the same time it offers stock in the U.S., ICA will
offer 8,300,000 common shares in Mexico and another 8,300,000
shares in markets outside the U.S. and Mexico. The company
said proceeds from the offerings will be used to fund its
investment in construction projects.
   ---
   Matt Moffett contributed to this article.