OTC Focus:
   Overpriced Atlantic Tele-Network Rises
   Despite Uncertainty in Region It Serves
   ----
   By Anne Newman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Looking beyond the grandiose name, Atlantic Tele-Network
is a holding company for Virgin Islands Telephone Corp.
(popularly known as Vitelco) and has an 80% stake in Guyana
Telephone & Telegraph Co.
   In the $19-a-share IPO on Nov. 14, the stock was
oversubscribed by investors who remembered the sizzling gains
in Mexican, Spanish and Chilean telephone stocks. The
company's shares quickly rose as high as 23 3/4, despite a
120-point drop in the Dow Jones industrials the day after the
offering. Gabelli & Co. telecommunications analyst Sal Muoio,
hired as a consultant by the company's underwriters,
envisions a 95% leap in its operating earnings next year as
the company modernizes Guyana's dilapidated phone system.
   So far, so good. But Atlantic Tele-Network has a troubled
history in the Virgin Islands that still haunts it. In 1989,
Hurricane Hugo wiped out more than three-quarters of its
Virgin Islands phone lines. The company has since replaced
them, but, in one of its many battles with regulators, was
challenged about the access charges it billed to
long-distance carriers after the lines were repaired.
   News sometimes travels slowly to the Caribbean. In early
November, the Federal Communications Commission ruled in one
of its regular sessions that Atlantic Tele-Network must
refund about $1.1 million, including estimated interest,
related to the post-Hugo access charges. The company,
however, didn't receive word of the opinion until a written
order was released the week before Christmas, company
spokesman Ed Crouch says. On Dec. 23, as the Dow Jones
industrials soared, the company's shares tumbled 1 1/2 to 20
3/4 after it told shareholders it might have losses of six
cents a share in the fourth quarter if it doesn't win an
appeal of the ruling. The stock has since rebounded sharply.
   Atlantic Tele-Network's offering document includes four
pages of rocky regulatory history. The Virgin Islands Public
Service Commission tried to halt its $97 million leveraged
buy-out in 1987, when two LBO specialists bought Vitelco from
ITT Corp. In the deal, Cornelius B. Prior Jr., a former
telecommunications investment banker for Kidder, Peabody &
Co., and accountant Jeffrey J. Prosser each put up just $475
in equity and a $500,000 loan, which later was repaid via an
ITT loan. (Kidder was lead underwriter for the company's
recent IPO.)
   Island regulators closely scrutinized the company's loan
agreements with the Rural Telephone Finance Cooperative,
Rural Electrification Administration and others, and clamped
down on inter-company loans. They also worried about the
company's heavy debt: The offering reduced debt to 70% from
90% of total capital. Under a recent accord, Messrs. Prior
and Prosser agreed to step down as top executives of Vitelco
by next July and the company agreed to limit dividends while
paring debt. Vitelco also is fighting for $32 million in
unpaid insurance claims.
   With all that bad publicity from the Virgin Islands,
Atlantic Tele-Network initially got a mixed reception in
Guyana this year when it paid the government $16.5 million
for an 80% stake in the country's run-down telephone company,
according to David Caires, editor of Guyana's largest
independent newspaper, the Stabroek News in Georgetown. After
two decades of socialism, Guyana -- which has average
per-capita income of $409 a year -- is slowly piloting a
transition to a market economy.
   Guyana's 11-month-old regulatory commission aired some of
Atlantic Tele-Network's earlier laundry and "aggressively"
scrutinized it, Mr. Crouch, the company spokesman, says. It
criticized management and assumed authority over intercompany
loans and advances. Mr. Caires notes that some local
residents have complained about the speed of repairs.
   "The jury is still out," Mr. Caires says. "The telephone
system here is in a terrible state. People are waiting to see
if they'll turn it around."
   Nevertheless, last month, Guyanese regulators gave
Atlantic Tele-Network a 160% rate increase on calls to the
U.S. and Britain to compensate for devaluation of the
Guyanese currency. That move heartened supporters such as Mr.
Muoio, the company's consultant, who expects the company's
profit to soar as it modernizes equipment in Guyana, more
than doubles its capacity there and reaps the benefit of
hard-currency revenue from calls going into Guyana. He
expects operating earnings to leap to $1.95 a share in 1992
and $2.50 a share in 1993 from about $1 expected this year.
   The company declines to comment on Mr. Muoio's estimates,
but spokesman Mr. Crouch calls him "very bullish." Yet Mr.
Prosser, chairman and co-chief executive, says he expects
that in 1992 revenue from the Guyanese telephone system will
equal the revenue from the Virgin Islands -- indicating that
the Guyanese revenue will more than double.
   Still, at 24 3/4, Atlantic Tele-Network is trading at
almost 13 times estimated 1992 earnings, making it more
expensive than Telmex, Mexico's more-stable telephone
company, which trades at about nine times expected earnings.
By several other measures -- price to cash flow, price to
revenue and price-to-book value (assets minus liabilities) --
the company's shares also are pricier than those of Telmex,
Spain's Telefonica de Espana, New Zealand's Telecom Corp. and
regional telephone companies in the U.S., according to
Goldman Sachs analyst Robert Morris.
   Yet none of those companies' regions are filled with the
political uncertainty facing Guyana. Later this year, the
country is expected to hold its first free elections in
nearly 30 years. Both Caribbean and American political
analysts say they expect the newly elected government to
remain friendly to private investment. But as one large U.S.
shareholder puts it, "there's no question there's significant
political risk" in the stock.
   ---
   Friday's Market Activity
                                                                                                       

   Over-the-counter stocks roared to their sixth consecutive
record high in a broad-based rally.
   The Nasdaq Composite Index jumped 6.20 to 592.65, a 1.1%
gain, outpacing the 0.9% climb in the Dow Jones Industrial
Average and the 0.5% rise in the New York Stock Exchange
Composite. OTC volume rose to 214.2 million shares from 181.4
million Thursday. Advancers swamped decliners 1,445 to 758.
   For the week, the Nasdaq Composite rose 4.8% compared with
a 3.2% gain in the Dow Industrials.
   Some of the largest OTC issues lagged smaller shares as
Apple Computer dropped 1/2 to 59, Intel slipped 1/4 to 50,
Sun Microsystems eased 3/4 to 28 1/8 and Microsoft sagged 1
to 113.
   SciMed Life Systems rocketed 8 1/4 to 90 1/2 after the
company disclosed plans to unveil three new products over the
next several weeks. The gain brings the stock to within
striking distance of its 52-week high of 93, which it hit
before fears over patent litigation against the company sent
the issue tumbling in September. The most onerous of the
suits was settled in November.
   Centigram Communications plunged 3 1/2 to 6 3/4. The
company said it expects to report about break-even results
for the first quarter ended last month, compared with
year-ago earnings of 16 cents a share. The company said some
large customer orders have been delayed because of the
sluggish economy. Sales, however, will rise to a range of
$9.5 million to $10 million, up from $8 million a year
earlier.
   Shares of computer disk drive manufacturers gained on
active volume after Hambrecht & Quist analyst Todd Bakar made
positive comments about the group. The analyst sees a rebound
in the offing for the industry, which was hurt last year by
sluggish demand and price competition.
   Among other disk drive-related issues, Quantum added 3/4
to 13, Micropolis climbed 5/8 to 9 3/4 and Komag rose 1/8 to
15 7/8.
   U.S. Healthcare jumped 3 1/8 to 43 3/4. The New York
Insurance Department has agreed to allow rates at a company
health maintenance organization to rise by 9% in the 1992
first quarter. The stock fell earlier this week after the
state regulators denied a request for a larger increase.
   Liposome Co. rose 2 7/8 to 19 3/8 after receiving a patent
for the use of non-liposomal forms of lipids in buffering
patients from the toxicity of certain drugs. On Thursday, the
stock gained 2 3/8 after the company received a separate
patent.
   ---
   Atlantic Tele-Network
   (OTC; Symbol: ATNI)
                                                                                                       

   Business: Telephone service in U.S. Virgin Islands and
Guyana
                                                                                                       

   Nine months ended Sept. 30, 1991*:
   Revenue: $58.6 million
   Income: From continuing operations: $5.2 million; or 74
cents a share*
                                                                                                       

   Average daily trading volume: 205,732 shares
                                                                                                       

   Common shares outstanding: 11.7 million
                                                                                                       

   *Pro-forma share earnings assume repayment of certain debt
after the recent stock offering.