Marketing  Media:
   Digital to Advertise
   On TV After Long
   Shunning Medium
   ----
   By William M. Bulkeley
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The decision is a sharp departure for Digital, the No. 2
computer maker behind IBM. Its founder and president, Kenneth
H. Olsen, has frequently disparaged expensive television time
as inappropriate for complex computer advertising. Mr. Olsen
couldn't be reached for comment.
   Software industry leader, Microsoft Inc., Redmond, Wash.,
is another television advertising neophyte that is breaking
with tradition. It plans to spend $8 million in the next four
weeks, advertising its Windows operating systems and software
that runs with it.
   Hewlett-Packard Inc., the third-largest computer maker,
said it also plans to start television advertising for its
corporate computer systems after staying off TV for three
years. It has been heavily advertising its laser printers in
both print and television ads, however.
   Many observers are dubious about the value of television
advertising for products that are complex to explain and that
are purchased by a small number of information systems
executives at a few thousand companies. "I think it's pretty
stupid. You're sitting there widening your belly and looking
at the action. You might be thinking about buying
consumables, but not computer systems," said Barry Bosak, an
analyst at Smith Barney.
   Digital, whose sales growth has stalled and profits have
plunged in recent years, will continue running ads after the
basketball tournament that build on its print campaign
designed by Mullen Advertising, Wenham, Mass. Mullen is also
doing the television ads. The campaign stresses Digital's
"Open Advantage" -- computer jargon for making different
brands of computers talk to each other.
   Henry Heisler, Digital's corporate advertising manager,
said that he expects that about 30% of Digital's advertising
budget will be spent on television, which he said is average
for the computer industry. He said that Digital's overall ad
spending will increase but it may also reduce its advertising
in trade magazines.
   Digital wouldn't disclose internal advertising budgets.
However, an official cited outside estimates combining
figures from LNA/Arbitron and the Rome Reports. In 1990, the
most recent full year, those figures indicate Digital spent a
total of $28 million, double the year before. In contrast,
industry leader International Business Machines Corp. spent
$106 million, and Hewlett-Packard spent $64 million.