Newmark-Lewis
   Plans to Close
   12 More Stores
   ----
   By Lourdes Lee Valeriano
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The company, which began 1991 with 67 stores, blamed the
weakness in the retail industry, particularly in its local
market area. Jeffrey L. Goldberg, executive vice president,
also said a delay in arranging some credit lines prevented
the company from building its inventory of merchandise in
time to capitalize fully on the Christmas season. He said the
company would post a fourth-quarter loss as a result of the
closings; no figure was given.
   The action belies a September projection made by Ronald
Fleisher, Newmark & Lewis's president and chief executive
officer, that the company would return to profitability in
the fiscal fourth quarter, which ends Jan. 31. In the
previous fiscal year, the company posted a loss of about $8
million, or $1.42 a share, on revenue of $293.8 million.
   The closings would leave the company largely with its
older, more profitable stores, five of which are in Nassau
county. It also would further slash the work force to about
300 persons, from about 400 currently and 930 at the start of
last year. A company spokesman said that costs associated
with the closings won't be determined until next week.
   Newmark & Lewis said the latest move is necessary to
continue operations from January through March, a normally
weak period for appliance and consumer electronics retailers.
But it's not certain the latest closings would be enough to
put the company on an even keel. "Hopefully, this will allow
them to survive," said Terrence McEvoy, retailing analyst
with Janney Montgomery Scott Inc. "But it's outside their
control. They're dependent on the economy picking up."
   The company, battered by slow sales and an ill-fated
attempt to expand to New Jersey, filed for bankruptcy court
protection last Aug. 30 and has since been operating as
debtor-in-possession. It had said it would take a $13 million
charge for the second quarter, ended July 31, to reflect the
costs of closing 12 stores in New Jersey. It shut 29 stores
in August and September, reducing the chain to 26 outlets.
Mr. Goldberg said the charges for the fall closings haven't
yet been determined. He added that the results for the second
and third quarters will be released within the next two
weeks.
   In its filing for Chapter 11 protection under the federal
Bankruptcy Code, Newmark & Lewis said same-store sales fell
16% in June and 21% in July from a year ago. Mr. Goldberg
said that through November, sales were 20% to 30% below the
previous-year figures.
   The company said the latest cuts will constitute a default
under the company's various financing agreements. But Mr.
Goldberg said he didn't expect that to present a problem,
although the creditors haven't yet issued a waiver. He
estimates Newmark & Lewis's debt at $17 million.