What's News --
   World-Wide
Israel's Supreme Court rejected a plea to free convicted
Nazi war criminal Demjanjuk but agreed to examine new
documents that were recently submitted by his defense
attorneys.
   ---
   A French domestic airliner crashed in eastern France with
96 people aboard, officials said. At least 10 survivors,
including a child, were found. The wreckage of the Airbus
A-320 was discovered in the fog-shrouded Vosges Mountains,
southwest of Strasbourg, after a four-hour search. The Air
Inter plane was on a flight from Lyon.
   ---
   The U.N. Security Council strengthened a draft resolution
asking Libya to surrender suspects in the bombings of Pan Am
Flight 103 in 1988 and a French airliner in 1989. The
proposal was amended to add a role for Secretary-General
Boutros-Ghali in trying to end the stalemate. The resolution
is expected to be passed today.
   ---
   Finland and Russia signed a political treaty that
dissolved a 1948 agreement limiting Finland's role in Western
Europe and obliging it to help defend the Soviet Union
against attack. The post-World War II treaty also had ruled
out Finland's membership in the European Community.
   ---
   Algeria's military-backed rulers pledged to use "all
means" to counter attacks against security forces. Police
officials announced the arrest of a cleric from a mosque in
Boussaada, south of Algiers.
   ---
   Mutinous troops in Congo fired on supporters of Prime
Minister Milongo in the first violence of a weeklong bid to
topple the civilian leader. Three people were killed and
several wounded, hospital officials in Brazzaville said.
Milongo, in hiding, appealed for international aid to prevent
the central African nation from returning to military rule.
   ---
   Two former border guards were found guilty in connection
with the death of a man shot trying to flee over the Berlin
Wall in early 1989. One of the East German guards received a
3 1/2-year sentence and the second was given a two-year
suspended sentence. Two other border guards were acquitted.
   ---
   Denver police used tear gas and night sticks to break up
violence that erupted outside the state Capitol during a Ku
Klux Klan counterdemonstration against Martin Luther King
Day. Police officers transported the 100 white supremacists
out of the area in a school bus while a crowd of about 1,000
people pelted it with snowballs.
   ---
   A Cuban firing squad executed a Miami-based exile, Eduardo
Diaz Betancourt, 38, who was convicted of terrorism after
landing on a Cuban beach last month with arms and explosives.
Two other men had been sentenced to death along with
Betancourt, but their sentences later were commuted to 30
years in prison.
   ---
   British Prime Minister Major rejected a resignation offer
by Northern Ireland Secretary Brooke, who admitted he made an
"error" by singing a frivolous folk song on TV Friday, hours
after seven workers were killed by an Irish Republican Army
bomb. Major visited Northern Ireland to reassure residents he
would stand up to the IRA.
   ---
   The EPA plans to narrow the scope of two hazardous-waste
rules that industry and the White House have criticized as
excessively stringent. Under the disputed regulations, any
waste is considered hazardous if it is mixed with or derived
from a substance that is officially classified as hazardous.
   ---
   Serb leaders in Croatia stepped up opposition to parts of
a U.N. peace plan for Yugoslavia, declaring that the
two-week-old truce accord would fail without their support.
Meanwhile, sporadic machine-gun fire was reported around the
Adriatic ports of Dubrovnik and Zadar, and minor clashes
occurred in eastern Croatia.
   ---
   South African groups met to plan the nation's transition
to a new democratic constitution, but two major parties
quickly clashed over the involvement of a U.S. law professor
who is a delegate of the Zulu-based Inkatha Freedom Party.
   ---
   Romania's president asserted that a lack of Western
financial aid is to blame for his government's failure to
improve poor living conditions in the two years since the
nation's Communist regime fell. Iliescu also told the
Associated Press it was "historically inevitable" that the
former Soviet republic of Moldova would reunite with Romania.
   ---
   The Khmer Rouge mounted mortar attacks on central
Cambodian villages yesterday, marring a three-month-old peace
agreement. Relief workers and diplomats said an assault
earlier this month by Khmer Rouge guerrillas left 13
civilians dead and forced 10,000 people to flee their homes.