Dial Corp. Shrinks as Chairman Stresses
   Goals of Manageability, Profitability
   ----
   By Howard Hoffman
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
What's next is likely to be new ownership for Dial's
transportation manufacturing segment. Mr. Teets says the bus
building and parts business could be sold or spun off to
shareholders within the next 12 months.
   What's left is a former conglomerate with prime interests
in consumer products such as Dial soap and Breck shampoo,
airline catering and airport concessions, and short cruises
under the Premier Cruise Line banner. That company seems more
manageable, more understandable and more profitable.
   Mr. Teets is comfortable with expectations that operating
earnings for the slimmer Dial will grow about 8% to 10% in
1992, compared with 5% for 1991.
   Profit before charges and discontinued operations for 1991
was $122.4 million, or $3.04 a share, up from operating
profit of $116.4 million, or $2.90 a share, for 1990. After a
$150 million restructuring charge and $29.8 million of losses
from discontinued operations, Dial's net loss for 1991 was
$57.6 million, or $1.47 a share.
   The immediate strategy for Dial is to make its sharper
focus work for the benefit of shareholders."You have to
become more efficient in your businesses," Mr. Teets says.
   That means capitalizing on strong brands such as Breck to
boost sales. Mr. Teets says Dial found, after it acquired
Breck in 1990, that strong name recognition for the Breck
shampoo label wasn't translating to sales. The product has
since been upgraded to compete with other premium shampoo
products. He says the early response has been positive, as
discount retailers give the rejuvenated shampoo line more
space on their shelves.
   The acquisition of Purex Cosumer Products in 1985 brought
Dial an unexepected benefit today in the form of Borax
detergeant. Borax, it seems, doesn't have the detrimental
effects on the environment that many leading detergeant
brands have. The recent rise in environmental consciousness
makes Borax all the more appealing. Dial's task, Mr. Teets
says, is to market to that appeal.
   The extra income anticipated from better results from core
businesses is likely to be used to facilitate growth and
perhaps for strategic acquisitions. For now, at least, Teets
rules out any dividend increase.
   GFC Financial Corp. is the new entity created this week
from the spinoff of Dial's mortgage insurance and commercial
lending businesses. Those businesses, though profitable, were
a drag on Dial resources and a distraction to management,
Teets said. He points out that Dial's return on equity will
rise to 21% this year from 10% in 1991, largely as a result
of the spinoff.
   As vindication for his strategy, Mr. Teets notes investor
reaction to the GFC Financial spinoff. Since October, when
the restructuring was announced, Dial's stock price has
jumped from the mid-30s to yesterday's quote of $50.125, down
12.5 cents, in late New York Stock Exchange trading.
   Mr. Teets is hoping the disposition of the transportation
manufacturing segment will be equally well-received.