How the Standard Safety Reviews
   For Implants Fell Through the Cracks
   ----
   By Joan E. Ridgon
Also, most patients who suffered complications didn't link
them to their implants; instead, they reported their symptoms
to their family doctors and to rheumatologists. And when Dow
Corning Corp. researchers did find evidence that the implants
might rupture, they didn't make it public, according to
internal documents from that company. (Dow Corning is a joint
venture of Dow Chemical Co. and Corning Inc.)
   Despite the secrecy on the part of that manufacturer, some
plastic surgeons discovered for themselves that silicone
implants could break, releasing silicone into the body. For
instance, A. Michael Pardue of Thousand Oaks, Calif.,
returned several silicone implants to McGhan Medical Corp. in
1976 because they ruptured. In a Sept. 27, 1976, letter to
McGhan President Donald McGhan, Dr. Pardue wrote, "Don, this
case today was one of the most frightening cases that I have
ever had. The inflammatory and scar tissue response to the
ruptured implant was incredible."
   In a written response to Dr. Pardue dated Oct. 8, 1976,
McGhan promised to analyze the returned implant and noted
that there was no scientific proof that implants cause tissue
reaction. Reached for comment yesterday, a McGhan spokesman
said several generations of the implant have been introduced
since 1976, but couldn't comment on the Pardue correspondence
specifically.
   Dr. Pardue says he didn't report the case to medical
journals because "I'm not one to write for journals."
Neither, as it turned out, were many of his peers. While
dozens of articles did appear outlining possible problems
with silicone breast implants, many were written by people
outside the specialty -- rheumatologists, oncologists,
radiologists and others. That is partly because many plastic
surgeons, like many other professionals, fear that reporting
their own bad results is tantamount to inviting litigation.
   "We joke that there ought to be a Journal for Bad Results.
But in this crazy country, you're opening yourself up to
lawsuits," says Melvin J. Silverstein, an oncologist at the
Breast Center, Van Nuys, Calif.
   Robert Goldwyn, editor of the Journal of the American
Society of Plastic and Reconstructive Surgeons, has written
editorials chastising his colleagues for not reporting bad
results and for reporting successes based on preliminary case
studies instead of long-term research.
   At least one colleague agreed. "Many plastic surgeons
(myself included) have become mesmerized by the good results
we usually obtain" with cosmetic implants, William M. Cocke
wrote in a letter to the ASPRS Journal in 1984. "Because of
these successes, we have been less than objective in our
evaluation of the body's reaction to silicone gel." Dr. Cocke
concluded that "we have a problem" and called on surgeons to
"objectively review our results."
   Dr. Goldwyn, in an interview, says that plastic surgeons
"can't assume responsibility for everything" that goes wrong.
"But they can assume responsibility for telling everything."
   ---
   (See related article: "Informed Consent? Plastic Surgeons
Had Warnings on Safety Of Silicone Implants --- But Absent
Formal Study, Many Ignored Reports In Journals and Elsewhere
--- A Manufacturer's Concerns" -- WSJ March 12, 1992)