What's News --
   World-Wide
The U.S., in a move to safeguard nuclear arms, next week
will send a highlevel delegation to the four former Soviet
republics where long-range nuclear missiles are stockpiled.
   ---
   Arab delegates began arriving in Washington for peace
talks, and an Israeli negotiator hinted at a breakthrough in
a dispute that kept the two sides from serious bargaining on
Palestinian self-rule during the last round of talks. The
last round recessed in a squabble over whether the
Palestinians would deal separately with Israel.
   ---
   Serbs in Bosnia-Hercegovina declared their own republic,
raising fears that the Yugoslav civil war could spread to the
center of the Balkan federation. The region's one-third Serb
minority took the action to protest efforts by Bosnian
leaders to seek European Community recognition along with
three other Yugoslav republics.
   ---
   The Bush administration released a study saying a
Democratic health-care proposal would be costly and would
restrict medical choices of workers. The "pay-or-play" idea,
which is backed by many Democrats and health panels, would
boost taxpayer and employer costs a combined $66 billion a
year, the study said.
   ---
   A cystic fibrosis treatment proved effective in the test
tube and on rats, researchers reported in the magazine Cell.
The team said that if the therapy works in monkeys, human
tests will begin. Patients might use inhalers to get the
genetically altered cold virus into their lungs in order to
reverse abnormalities that cause the disease.
   ---
   Libya's U.N. ambassador criticized Western attempts to use
the Security Council to pressure Tripoli to extradite two men
charged in the Pan Am Flight 103 bombing. Ali Ahmed Elhouderi
said Libya doesn't oppose trials for the two Libyan suspects
in the 1988 attack, but won't allow their extradition until
more evidence is produced.
   ---
   Seven miners were killed in South Africa when a small
earthquake set off a rock slide, and two men died in another
mine when they fell into a shaft, officials said. The
accidents brought to four the number of fatal mine accidents
in the country in three days. Fifteen men have died.
   ---
   France's ruling Socialist Party elected Laurent Fabius as
its leader, succeeding Pierre Mauroy, who resigned this week.
Fabius, who is Parliament speaker and a former premier, vowed
to rejuvenate the party. He also pledged loyalty to a
longtime rival, Michel Rocard, the party's choice as a
successor to President Mitterrand.
   ---
   The nation's drug czar conceded that he improperly used
office stationery to get back thousands of dollars owed his
unsuccessful Florida gubernatorial race. But Bob Martinez
contended that his disposal of the money, to Republican Party
officials in Florida and to a nonprofit drug treatment group,
was done according to Florida law.
   ---
   Thousands of Algerian women rallied in opposition to the
Islamic fundamentalists poised to take control of Parliament.
The Islamic Salvation Front, which seeks to curtail the
employment of women and to form an Islamic state, took an
overwhelming lead in first-round elections last month. A
second round of voting is set for next Thursday.
   ---
   The Navy plans to shift 2,550 personnel and their families
from the Subic Bay Naval Base in the Philippines to Guam, a
Pentagon aide said. Bush announced Saturday that a naval
logistics command from Subic Bay would move to Singapore.
Philippine officials have declared that U.S. forces must be
out of the country by the end of 1992.
   ---
   Afghanistan's government accepted an invitation to a
conference this month in Germany aimed at setting the stage
for talks on ending the 13-year-old Afghan war. Former West
German Chancellor Brandt also has invited the three moderate
leaders of the Muslim resistance and the deposed Afghan King
Zaher Shah to the three-day meeting.
   ---
   Researchers in Finland found that people with normal
cholesterol levels -- but high amounts of blood fats called
triglycerides -- may be four times as likely as others to
suffer a heart attack, and may wrongly be given a clean bill
of health. The findings are in this month's issue of
Circulation, published by the American Heart Association.