Fitch to Unveil Ratings to Measure Risk
   Of Collateralized Mortgage Obligations
   ----
   By Barbara Donnelly
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
CMOs are created by repackaging the principal and interest
payments generated by traditional mortgage-backed bonds. Some
low-risk types of CMOs are about as simple and safe as
Treasury bonds, but other types are so unpredictable that
even bond-math wizards have trouble keeping up with them.
   Wall Street securities firms are doing a booming business
selling various types of CMOs to yield-hungry individual
investors who are dissatisfied with the low yields on money
market funds and bank certificates of deposit.
   Until now, low-risk and high-risk CMOs all have carried
the same high triple-A rating, based on their low credit
risk. That has obscured the fact that many CMOs involve a
degree of market risk that is many times greater than that of
traditional fixed-income securities.
   Prices of some volatile CMOs can rise or fall sharply with
changes in interest rates. CMO holders face an additional
risk because interest-rate changes also can drastically speed
up or slow down prepayments of underlying mortgages,
producing sudden changes in a CMO's average life, or expected
maturity.
   All this has meant that less sophisticated investors often
don't understand how volatile their CMOs are. That puts them
at a great disadvantage to big investors and dealers who have
the computer technology and math expertise necessary to gauge
the real risks lurking behind different CMOs.
   CMO professionals and government regulators say Fitch's
new ratings are a first step in providing more disclosure of
CMO risks. But they also worry that the Fitch system, as it
stands, could mislead unsophisticated investors and be abused
by sellers.
   "I like the idea of having an independent judge people can
use as a benchmark" to gauge CMO risk, says Owen Carney,
senior adviser on investments at the Office of the
Comptroller of the Currency. "The concern I've got is that
this creates a false sense of security among people who think
this can substitute for other, more in-depth research." Mr.
Carney also worries that "these ratings can be gamed by Wall
Street," that is, dealers can manufacture CMOs that appear
less risky than they are under the Fitch ratings.
   The Office of the Comptroller helped establish rules
limiting bank and thrift purchases of CMOs.
   The new Fitch ratings of 1,000 recently issued CMOs
subject them to 10 "stress scenarios to see how their price,
total return, average life and other assumptions vary with
changes in interest rates. Fitch then compares those
volatility readings with similar readings for other CMOs and
blends the information into a single "volatility rating" for
each individual CMO. The ratings, which will be updated
quarterly, range from V-1 (low-risk) to V-5 (high risk).
   "You've got to applaud Fitch for getting out there and
taking the first swing -- something had to be done to protect
the people who were buying trash {CMO} paper," says Max
Bublitz, senior vice president of Conseco Capital Management,
which manages about $5.5 billion of CMOs and other
mortgage-backed securities. At the same time, he adds, "the
potential for misuse is very great."
   One possible flaw in the Fitch ratings is that by blending
different kinds of market-risk measures into a single
composite number, the ratings may obscure the true risks that
drive the behavior of a particular CMO.
   "My concern is that people will think a V-3 rating is
`safe' without really knowing what risk underlies that
rating, or whether the risk is appropriate for them," says
Andrew Carron, head of mortgage research at First Boston
Corp.
   Fitch says it plans to upgrade its rating system in the
future to help address these and other potential
shortcomings. "This isn't a magic answer, but it's better
quality information than what's normally available to the
public," says Stephen Joynt, Fitch executive vice president.
"It's certainly no guarantee," he adds.