International:
   French Minister
   Calls for Study
   Of Airbus A-320
   ---
   Crash in January Triggers
   Probe of Display System,
   Which Pilots Criticized
   ----
   By Brian Coleman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The display system shows pilots the plane's rate of
descent and flight path.
   The report is the first official statement concerning the
Jan. 20 crash that killed 87 of the 96 people on board the
Air Inter airline flight as it approached Strasbourg. The
crash rekindled questions about the plane's high-technology
control system, which has been criticized by French pilots
since its introduction as overly sophisticated and
susceptible to computer error.
   The committee, however, stressed that its report doesn't
reflect any conclusions on the cause of the accident. The
full inquiry into the crash is expected to take another year,
the panel said.
   Airbus responded to the report by saying it already has
set up a team of its own specialists to study crew procedures
and the display. Airbus said its team is to work alongside
aviation authorities and A-320 customers.
   The European aircraft manufacturing consortium defended
the A-320, saying: "This display mode was developed at the
request of, and in concert with, the airline customers as
well as the various international certification and flight
inspection authorities."
   The Airbus consortium includes Aerospatiale of France,
British Aerospace PLC, Construcciones Aeronauticas S.A. of
Spain and Deutsche Airbus, a unit of Germany's Daimler-Benz
AG.
   French pilots welcomed the panel's suggestions as partial
vindication of their criticism of the plane. "We are
satisfied because it is the first time the A-320 cockpit has
been questioned," said Jean-Paul Maurel, secretary general of
the Air Inter division of the French pilots union.
   Air Inter said it has already informed its pilots of the
risks of confusion between the "vertical speed" and "flight
angle" descent modes when using the display system. The
airline, an Air France subsidiary serving the French domestic
market, said it is ready to help in finding ways of
eliminating the risk of confusion.
   In its other recommendations, the committee focused less
on the A-320 itself. First, the panel recommended amending
French law to make it mandatory for all aircraft to have
"ground proximity warning systems," which alert pilots flying
at low altitudes.
   These warning systems, introduced in the early 1980s, are
already on most planes, including the A-320. But Air Inter is
the only A-320 operator to decide against the installation of
the system. Yesterday, the airline said it planned to have
the warning systems installed in all of its planes by summer.
   Finally, the investigation committee recommended a review
of the installation and operation of beacons that help
rescuers locate a downed plane. The Air Inter flight's rescue
beacon failed to work after the crash and French search teams
took more than four hours to find the crashed A-320, leaving
survivors stranded in freezing temperatures.
   Although welcoming the recommendations, Mr. Maurel of the
French pilots union said the committee didn't go far enough.
He criticized the committee for failing to comment on the
A-320's navigation system, which has also been viewed as a
possible contributor to the crash.
   Mr. Maurel also questioned the committee's lack of comment
on the placement of the plane's in-flight recorders -- known
as the "black boxes." Mr. Maurel said the committee should
examine how to better position the recorders, one of which
was destroyed in the crash.
   Although the panel's report raises questions about the
plane's display system, analysts said they expected it would
have little effect on the consortium's sales. Analysts noted
that the market for the 150-seat A-320 is saturated and few
new orders are expected for the plane this year.