Economy:
   Bush Plan's Timetable for Buying Gear
   Is Too Short, Capital-Intensive Firms Say
   ----
   By Rick Wartzman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
"This proposal is clearly inadequate," said Dale Norton,
vice president for planning and business development at
Giddings  Lewis Inc., a maker of high-tech manufacturing
equipment. He called for the administration to take bolder
steps before the U.S. "falls further behind" its global
economic rivals.
   Under the proposal, companies would receive an investment
tax allowance for the purchase of new equipment. To qualify,
a purchase contract would have to be signed between Feb. 1,
1992, and Jan. 1, 1993. The allowance, which would provide
for additional first-year depreciation equal to 15% of the
price of the equipment, would apply only if the gear is
placed in service before July 1, 1993.
   Although many companies would undoubtedly be able to
benefit from the proposal, certain industries fear the
equipment they require won't be ready soon enough for them to
qualify. The most complex pieces of factory machinery take
several years to custom design, build and install. And it is
just that sort of equipment, economists say, that is
necessary to enhance efficiency and stimulate long-term
productivity gains.
   "For the most part, that is not a window that allows
capital-intensive industries to make a great number of
investment commitments," said Donald McCambridge, director of
fiscal affairs for Bethlehem Steel Corp. "We don't want to
appear ungrateful for what the president is doing. But
realistically, we don't see it having a significant impact."
   "This is basically aimed at more off-the-shelf equipment
than it is for building major facilities," added Neil
Wissing, vice president of taxes at Weyerhaeuser Co., the
wood products giant. He estimates that it takes an average of
three years for a paper plant to put in a large piece of
equipment.
   Treasury officials and others say the program would help
most industries. Just yesterday, the National Association of
Purchasing Managers released its January survey, which showed
the average lead time for capital investment is 147 days --
well within the administration's time frame. Only 17% of the
companies surveyed said the lead time for capital
expenditures is more than a year.
   The more the window is widened, the more expensive the
plan becomes. The administration estimates that its proposal
would cost the government $1.7 billion through 1997, a
relatively small amount. "I can understand the requirement
for a short window," said Robert Bretz, purchasing manager at
Pitney Bowes Inc. and chairman of the survey committee at the
purchasing managers association. "We need this extra boost
right now. A year and a half from now, we may not."
   Still, Treasury officials say they're willing to consider
altering the program -- provided that it can be done without
substantially increasing the cost to the government.
   One of the most vocal camps is the airline industry, which
is in the midst of the biggest downturn in its history. The
tax allowance may help with "some little stuff like ground
equipment or computers, but we need help with the big stuff,"
said Angelynn Hall, director of federal legislation for the
Air Transport Association, which represents 20 U.S. carriers.
   The transport association is urging the Treasury to extend
the timetable so that jetliners ordered this year could be
covered, even though they wouldn't be delivered until the
late 1990s. It also wants the tax allowance to apply to
equipment signed for prior to Feb. 1. Ms. Hall calculates
that if the allowance could be used for the 230 aircraft that
are set to come on line this year, it could bring as much as
a $300 million tax benefit to the airlines.
   But the Bush proposal was designed to encourage new
spending, not to reward investment decisions already made.
   For many companies, the investment-tax-allowance debate is
actually something of a side show to their push for
restoration of a permanent investment tax credit. Although
the tax allowance "is surely a step forward, it would have
neither the bang for the buck nor the lasting power" of a
full tax credit, asserted Charls Walker, a Washington
lobbyist who is putting together an industry coalition to
press the issue.