REVIEW  OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   The IMF Goes to Russia
We have our doubts whether any of the people operating out
of the traditional IMF mind-set have a clue about what Russia
needs. The Russian problem is "sui generis." Other than good
people and natural resources, it's a blank page economically.
It needs law, a commercial code, private property, a price
mechanism and a currency, for starters. This is not something
the IMF is accustomed to dealing with.
   The IMF's experience, instead, runs to "rescuing," say,
Peru. Peru, also possessed of good people, is still searching
for a sustainable solution. If IMF advice can't cure the
problems of Peru, what is it going to do for the incomparably
more complicated Commonwealth of Independent States?
   Some debtor nations seem to be succeeding, notably Mexico
and more recently Argentina. But they tend to think of the
IMF as more a hindrance than a help. Pedro Aspe of Mexico and
Domingo Cavallo of Argentina have had serious disagreements
with the Fund. The IMF's economists have tried to squash
reductions in both countries' tax rates, arguing that the
cuts would lead to a loss of revenue and a further imbalance
in the fiscal deficit (reflecting the economic thinking that
dominates minds around island Washington).
   Mexico and Argentina have proved the IMF wrong. Revenues
have grown because of the rate cuts. But Fund officials
continue to discourage the innovative Mr. Cavallo from
pushing a powerful tax-reform package of his own devising.
Yegor Gaidar, take note. You could be next.
   The Fund has been more circumspect about advocating
currency devaluations in Argentina and Mexico, though it has
often offered this nostrum in the past, in the name of
generating trade surpluses. The notion is that a positive
trade balance, in and of itself, is somehow a measure of
economic well-being, which is the first error. The second
error is the notion that a cheap currency helps trade.
Brazil's moribund economy has run huge trade surpluses for a
decade. Japan ran trade deficits during the 1950s and 1960s
as it began rebuilding the industrial and capital base it
used to become the superproducer of the '70s and '80s.
   So the Mexicans quake when they hear the IMF rumble about
their trade deficit. They rightly believe that their current
accounts deficit is a healthy sign of growth, the flip side
of investment inflows. Indeed, in a real global economy,
bureaucrats would stop worrying about the trade figures. As
Mr. Aspe recently told us in an interview, "Puerto Rico just
had a trade crisis, and nobody seemed to notice."
   The IMF has a book-balancing priority, but what a country
such as Russia mainly needs is a climate for growth. A
productive debtor is more likely to ultimately pay back loans
than a poor debtor, and this logic is certainly understood at
the IMF. But bureaucrats tend to focus on the status quo of
already established economic players, a commitment that
leaves little room for the fundamentally radical nature of
wealth creation.
   No doubt the real reason that Secretary Baker and the
Europeans are plumping for IMF involvement with the CIS is to
forestall political unrest. But we have just seen an
attempted coup in Venezuela caused, at least in part, by an
economic-stabilization package of the kind the IMF typically
prescribes. Russia, be warned.