LEISURE  ARTS -- Bookshelf:
   Animal Talk
   ----
   By Manuela Hoelterhoff
So it was with great interest that I turned to two new
books describing the complex relationships we, well, some of
us, forge with nonhumans: Thomas Palmer's "Landscape With
Reptile: Rattlesnakes in the Urban World" (Ticknor  Fields,
340 pages, $19.95) and Stephen Budiansky's "The Covenant of
the Wild: Why Animals Chose Domestication" (Morrow, 190
pages, $18). Mr. Budiansky, a science writer who owns a small
farm in Maryland, suggests that many animals actually prefer
to live with people who eat them and buy them tartan-lined
sleeping baskets from L.L. Bean. It is the end result of a
process put in motion long ago, he argues, an evolutionary
response to the upheavals of the last Ice Age, when a closer
relationship with human beings benefited those animals who
eventually ended up on our farms and in our laps.
   Cats, for instance, who are fed out of costly tin cans and
yet do nothing but stare sleepily at invading ring snakes,
cut a pretty good deal for themselves. Crotalus horridus
seems to be less sociable than my little wigglers and about
four times longer besides, to judge by Mr. Palmer's ode to
the shy, venomous rattlesnake. Crotalus only bonds with
humans under duress: You must pet it or step on it. Mostly,
Crotalus likes to take in the sun in total privacy on stony
crags. For this life style, the Blue Hills, a few busy
highway miles outside Boston and close to Mr. Palmer's home,
are ideal. At least they were until the arrival of the
Puritans, who considered Crotalus and its relatives the
confidential agents of Satan. The Indians got on with
Crotalus just fine, as Mr. Palmer doesn't fail to point out,
adding without obvious irony that they sometimes sacrificed
dogs to the snake deity. (But Mr. Palmer is strictly a snake
man; in a rather astonishing passage, he takes fright at some
cows who have ambled into the Blue Hills.)
   By now shovels, hatchets, guns and dynamite have so
reduced Crotalus in Massachusetts, rattlers are virtually
extinct. Not surprisingly, Mr. Palmer gets few glimpses of
his "hero" and fleshes out his nature walks with often
engaging stories drawn from local lore, medical reports and
novels. This is probably the only book that discusses a
wretched novel by Oliver Wendell Holmes from the viewpoint of
the (maligned) rattlesnake. But it helps Mr. Palmer, a
novelist and amateur naturalist, make the point he wants to
in this rambling, quirky book: Snake murderers usually don't
bother with the facts.
   Among other things, and never mind its fearsome
reputation, Crotalus's bite is very rarely lethal -- though
painful certainly, which Mr. Palmer doesn't deny in some
sparkling descriptions of arms turning into bloated red hams.
But as Mr. Palmer notes: "Certain prejudices, it seems, are
so ingrown their removal would require surgery."
   Mr. Budiansky would also dispel some prejudices having to
do with humans, specifically farmers. "This book," he writes,
"was born in part of my experiences as an imposter farmer; in
part of my fascination with archaeological and behavioral
research that is beginning to reveal domestication of animals
as a natural product of evolution; and in part of my anger at
the simplistic stereotypes of man and nature that are being
purveyed by an ever more confrontational animal rights
movement to an ever more urban audience."
   Animals munching on other animals who are still alive;
agonizing deaths from parasites: These are not scenes that
keep the phones ringing at PBS stations come fund-raising
time. That Mother Nature is one cruel mommy to many of her
flock is a truth that gets less media time than stories of
stuffed geese, shackled lambs or penned hens. Mr. Budiansky
doesn't deny that some farm animals are mistreated, that some
lab experiments are nonsense. But his slim, elegant discourse
is a persuasive counterweight to the pastoral delusions of
sentimentalists intent on seeing humans as malevolently at
odds with the noble animal kingdom.
   In fact, writes Mr. Budiansky, it is time to question
conventional wisdom that insists humans chose to domesticate
food animals and ask, instead, what was in it for them, for
the animals. Did they choose us? The reindeer, for example,
so enjoys the salty taste of human urine, it would probably
feel deprived of a delicacy if it were liberated into lonely
loops around the North Pole. Turning to animals closer to
home, sheep and cattle, Mr. Budiansky suggests that "the
advantages of extra food and protection from predators would
outweigh the disadvantages of being preyed on by humans."
   Well, we can't ask them. But it makes sense that a hostile
environment would bring animals and humans closer together.
These days, figuring out how to share this earth with animals
when most people are quite disconnected from nature (or
reality for that matter) is not easy. But it seems even to
this sentimental vegetarian, who eats nothing with big brown
eyes -- yet isn't keen on snake stew either -- that animals
and humans have a sane friend in Mr. Budiansky.