REVIEW  OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   Treasury's Capital Gains
Whoops. The Moms and Pops getting ready to sell a small
business or finally unload the stock they've been holding for
a lifetime may not be up to speed on the AMT, but all of the
venture capitalists who might have been expected to get the
jobs-and-new-enterprises machine restarted certainly know
what it is.
   The alternative minimum tax is a fairly complicated
provision in the tax code, but the bottom line is that the
revenue-obsessed drones at Treasury have effectively raised
George Bush's announced 15.4% capital-gains tax to a marginal
rate of almost 24% under some circumstances and even 30% in
others. Essentially, Treasury has decided that the 45%
capital-gains exclusion that the President announced should
be% added back to income for AMT calculations. The details of
how this will work are described in a paper prepared this
week by the number crunchers at Bear Stearns, whose job it is
to comb through anything Treasury proposes with an obviously
necessary fine-toothed comb. The paper notes:
   "If a capital gains realization represents a sizable
portion of a person's income in any year, that person could
be caught in the AMT net and pay a marginal cap gains rate of
24%. What's more, ordinary income plus capital gains
realizations which add up to between $150,000 and $310,000
generate a marginal cap gains rate of 30% as a result of the
phaseout of the $40,000 exclusion, almost twice the stated
rate in the President's proposal."
   Of course, the way you would avoid the AMT is by not
realizing capital gains. So while the President's proposal
may indeed generate some economic activity, it isn't likely
to produce anything like the results seen from the famous
Steiger rate cut of 1978. {In a piece nearby, Alan Reynolds
discusses the effects of the proposal's insistence on
creating several tiers of waiting periods to obtain different
cap gains rates (see related article: "The Flaw That Mars
Bush's Tax Cut" -- WSJ Feb. 6, 1992).}
   Last Friday, the insurance industry discovered that the
Treasury drones were proposing to strip tax benefits from
most annuities starting the very next day, February 1. Share
prices in insurance companies collapsed instantly. By close
of business Friday, Treasury said that on second thought the
tax provisions would commence when the bill was signed by the
President, who in some sense is responsible for this Keystone
Kops routine.
   So it goes in Washington, where tax policy has no tangible
relation to what actually goes on in the real economy. We
assume that when the President stood in front of the nation
to propose his 15.4% capital gains rate, he had not been told
that the proposal would sic the alternative minimum tax on
his audience. If that wasn't his intention, maybe he should
tell someone across the street at Treasury to get with the
program.