Taiwanese Bid for Stake in McDonnell
   Likely to Be Backed by Taipei Analysis
   ----
   By Jeremy Mark and Jeff Cole
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
If the deal dies -- still a distinct possibility --
Taiwanese backers of the venture would seek out other
investments or joint ventures in the U.S. commercial airframe
business, according to an official of Taipei's Committee for
Aviation and Space Industry Development, or CASID. He says he
can't confirm, however, reports that Taiwan officials had
already approached Boeing Co. in search of alternatives.
   A decision by Taiwan's leaders to move forward on an
arrangement with St. Louis-based McDonnell Douglas would mean
they would have to be prepared to invest not just money, but
also considerable political capital to overcome strong
resistance among Taiwanese legislators who control purse
strings.
   Crucial to any decision will be the attitudes of President
Lee Teng-hui and Premier Hau Pei-tsun, both of whom supported
the deal in its early stages, but who also are awaiting the
results of the evaluation. "Premier Hau is the one who will
be wearing the hard hat on this issue," says a government
official.
   Sources say the evaluation, which is being prepared by a
team coordinated by executives of state-owned China Steel
Corp., will go into great detail on the merits and
shortcomings of an investment, but will be positive in its
overall tone. "The team members, after these long
deliberations, are convinced to some degree about the
viability of this project," says a person familiar with the
decision-making process.
   However, another well-informed individual says the report,
likely to be delivered to the government in a month or less,
won't offer specific recommendations about whether the Taiwan
authorities should pursue the deal. The evaluation "is not an
absolute road map," the individual says. "The government has
to take some risk or responsibility."
   David R.C. Chu, director of CASID and a member of the
evaluation team, refused this week during a stop in Los
Angeles to comment directly on the proposed deal or the
evaluation. However, he said the Taiwanese are committed to
winning a permanent and significant role in airliner
production and would "open the door" to other companies if
the McDonnell Douglas deal unravels. Dr. Chu said he was
unaware of reports that Taiwan had contacted Seattle-based
Boeing. A Boeing spokesman declined to comment.
   Last November, McDonnell Douglas and Taiwan Aerospace
signed a memorandum of understanding in which the Taiwanese
company agreed to buy as much as 40% of the U.S. company's
airliner business for as much as $2 billion. The McDonnell
Douglas operations, which have struggled for years and are
deep in debt, would be spun into a new company that would
build a new long-range MD-12 jetliner. Taiwan would make much
of the plane's wings and fuselage -- even though the
country's commercial-aerospace industry is very small. But
Dr. Chu, who has extensive experience producing military
aircraft, maintained that Taiwan can mobilize quickly for the
venture.
   People in Taiwan say the evaluation has been held up
recently because McDonnell Douglas has failed to settle on a
design for the MD-12. The company, which had discussed a
three-engine model, recently started showing customers a
four-engine design. Uncertainty over the plane's
configuration "does have an impact on the market assessment,"
an aerospace-industry source says. Dr. Chu said a four-engine
design could offer more flexibility for stretched versions of
the transport.
   Government officials haven't yet tried to decide how large
an acquisition to undertake -- or even whether to proceed
further -- as they await the report. But senior officials
have been quoted in recent weeks as saying a deal eventually
may involve as little as a 25% stake. Those officials decline
to be interviewed.
   The Taiwanese evaluation team, working with investment
bank Goldman, Sachs  Co. and accounting firm Deloitte 
Touche, was established to assess the deal in light of the
likely need for some form of Taiwanese government
participation. The 29% government-owned Taiwan Aerospace has
paid-in capital of only $200 million, and is unable to
undertake the acquisition on its own. Several subcommittees
have been studying different aspects of the proposed deal,
with Deloitte focusing on McDonnell Douglas's financial
condition and Goldman looking at the deal, as well as the
prospects for the MD-12 and the world aircraft industry.
   Since the pact was announced, a storm of opposition has
been unleashed in Taiwan, particularly in the Legislative
Yuan. The criticism has caused some government officials to
reassess their initial support for the plan, leaving some
supporters pessimistic that the authorities will be prepared
to fight for the acquisition.