International:
   Iacocca's Claim on Jeep Sales Questioned
   ---
   More Than Japanese Red Tape
   Is to Blame for High Price
   ----
   By Clay Chandler
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
In a blunt speech to members of the Detroit Economic Club
Friday, made just hours after he returned from Tokyo, Mr.
Iacocca railed against the criticism that poor quality and
lack of effort are the real reasons Detroit's Big Three don't
sell more cars in Japan. "They say our stuff is junk, but I
don't think so," he fumed.
   "I wonder if there's another reason. Like maybe because my
Jeep Cherokee costs $12,000 more in Japan than it does here
because they won't accept our certification, and everything
has to be inspected and there's a maze of red tape not
designed to protect the Japanese consumer, but to keep us
out," he said.
   Mr. Iacocca is right about the big difference in price; he
may even be understating it. Cherokees in Japan carry a
sticker price of 5.2 million yen, or more than $40,000.
   That is much more than the $22,300 the vehicles sell for
in the U.S. -- and more than what all but a handful of
Japanese consumers will shell out for a car made by a company
whose quality standards most regard with suspicion.
Comparable Japanese four-wheel-drive vehicles, including
Mitsubishi Motors Corp.'s popular Pajero or Toyota Motor
Corp.'s Land Cruiser, sell here for $7,000 less than
Cherokees.
   But the "red tape" associated with certification and
inspection of Cherokees accounts for only a small part of the
price difference. Even by estimates of officials at Chrysler
Japan Sales Corp., the Detroit car maker's Tokyo distributor,
meeting Japanese requirements for emissions, safety features
and the like account for less than $1,000 in extra cost.
   In fact, Mr. Iacocca may have been closer to the mark last
year, when in a syndicated newspaper column he pointed to
high distribution costs as a factor in the higher prices.
While describing the price increase that results when Jeep
Cherokees are shipped across the Pacific as "an even bigger
mystery" than the Bermuda Triangle, Mr. Iacocca acknowledged
that distribution costs account for about 70% of the
difference.
   Mr. Iaccoca's June column contended that distribution
costs in Japan are high because "the major Japanese car
companies won't let their dealers handle American cars." For
the most part, that's true, despite disingenuous claims by
Japan's dealers that the only reason they never sold U.S.
cars before is that no one asked them to.
   But the tight relationship between the big Japanese car
makers and their dealer networks doesn't mean it is
impossible to sell imported cars here at a competitive price.
European manufacturers such as BMW, Volkswagen and Rover have
shown they can price their cars competitively here, either by
building their own dealer networks or working with
independent dealerships. But to cut its distribution costs,
Chrysler would have to slice profit margins and accept losses
for years, something its precarious financial position
prevents it from doing.
   One big component of high costs for operating dealerships
in Japan is astronomical land prices. But it can hardly be
argued that those high prices are barriers erected by the
Japanese to shut out foreign competitors. The European
manufacturers who operate cost-efficient dealerships in Japan
were lucky enough to purchase property in the early 1980s
before the so-called bubble economy sent Japanese land prices
soaring.
   Probably the biggest reason costs are high at Chrysler's
Japan dealerships is that the company's sales volume is so
small. The result is Chrysler dealers must charge high prices
for Jeeps to recover the overhead they pay for such things as
salaries, servicing and rent. Without much hope for big sales
volumes, none of the Big Three U.S. car makers has been
willing to invest the enormous sums that would be necessary
to build full-fledged, independent dealerships in Japan.
Despite those major obstacles, however, Mr. Iacocca chose to
focus on the "red tape" issue.
   Meanwhile, Japan's drivers are hardly clamoring for
Cherokees. While a few loyalists are fond of wheeling the
bulky vehicles through Tokyo's narrow streets, the Cherokees
shipped to Japan last year were plagued with defects.
Chrysler recalled the vehicles three times, twice for brake
defects and once for throttle problems.
   Officials at Honda Motor Corp., which has sold 395
Cherokees in the past two years, say the recalls and a rash
of other maintenance problems have undermined the relatively
positive image the vehicle enjoyed among Japan's off-road
enthusiasts before the car had wide exposure here. Honda now
has more Cherokees in storage than it sold all last year.
   Honda's troubles in marketing Cherokees in Japan only make
clear that there is risk as well as opportunity inherent in
the agreements President Bush negotiated with the Japanese
auto industry in Tokyo last week. After considerable
arm-twisting from Washington and Japan's powerful Ministry of
International Trade and Industry, Honda last week agreed to
increase its annual sales of Cherokees and Wranglers to 1,200
vehicles by 1995.
   The arrangement was part of an effort aimed at blunting
U.S. complaints that Japan's domestic distribution system is
closed to outsiders. It should allow Chrysler to increase
sales without a proportional jump in its overhead costs.
   To make good its pledge, Honda plans to triple the number
of its dealers that sell Jeeps to 300 and pour additional
resources into its Jeep customer-service team, says Yoshihide
Munekuni, Honda's vice president in charge of domestic
marketing. But because sales volume is small, Honda is leery
of spending large sums on advertising; it will rely instead
on satisfied Cherokee owners to spread the word. Honda
officials hope to allay customers' concerns about quality by
selling the American vehicles based on its own willingness to
bend over backward on service.
   "We said we'll sell that many, so we'll sell that many,"
said Mr. Munekuni. "But whether {the sales target} makes
sense as a business proposition is another story." Honda's
efforts should get a lift in October or November, when
Chrysler is scheduled to unveil a long-awaited
right-hand-drive version of the Cherokee developed for the
Japanese market.
   Whether Honda's attempt to sell Jeeps by strengthening its
own customer-service division will prove of any long-term
benefit to Chrysler -- or only leave the company more
dependent on outside assistance once the three-year period is
over -- remains to be seen. Indeed, Mr. Iacocca's statements
before and after his Tokyo visit indicate he thinks the odds
of competing in Japan are hopelessly stacked against his
company.
   While Mr. Iacocca's hawkish rhetoric didn't do much for
Cherokee's image in Japan, there is one area where the U.S.
business delegation's visit seems to have had a positive
effect on sales: Chrysler Japan officials say they've been
besieged with calls from Japanese wanting to buy the 20
limited-edition Cherokees used last week by President Bush's
entourage.