Law -- Legal Beat:
   Libel Lawsuits Against Newsletters
   Are Rising, Defense Lawyers Say
   ----
   By Christi Harlan and Arthur S. Hayes
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
"It's a cynical view that the most disruptive thing about
libel litigation is the money," adds Mr. Sanford, a partner
at the Washington law firm Baker & Hostetler. He says
aggrieved -- and savvy -- plaintiffs recognize that large
news organizations often pick up news tips from newsletters
and trade publications. They sometimes sue smaller
publications to keep bad news from spreading.
   That's not to say small publications aren't to blame in
some libel cases: Even defense lawyers say smaller news
outlets often lack the experience and editorial personnel to
prevent errors.
   But the trend toward more suits against the small fry is
disturbing to defense lawyers. Two suits filed last year
against newsletters "had a palpable effect" on their
willingness to tackle controversial subjects, says a lawyer
for the Newsletter Publishers Association, Lee Levine, of the
Washington firm Ross, Dixon & Masback.
   Mr. Levine represented a Pennsylvania newsletter, Sporting
Goods Intelligence, in a libel suit filed by L.A. Gear Inc.
The sneaker manufacturer's suit attacked an article
predicting an earnings decline because of the company's
alleged sale of sneakers to wholesalers who in turn were
selling them to discounters and flea markets. The suit was
settled last year.
   In another suit against a newsletter, National Life
Insurance Co. of Montpelier, Vt., alleges that Phillips
Publishing Inc. libeled the insurer in an article about
ratings of insurers' debt. National Life's counsel, Theodore
Sherbow, who typically represents libel defendants, says the
suit could have been forestalled with a retraction. Phillips
Publishing's lawyer, Mr. Sanford, claims his client is being
unfairly blamed for printing something that other
publications have since reported.
   The L.A. Gear and National Life suits are "clearly
chilling" to newsletter publishers, says Mr. Levine. "From
the perspective of newsletter publishers, 1991 was a very bad
year," he says.
   But newsletters weren't the only small publications taken
to court last year: Baltimore Orioles owner and businessman
Eli Jacobs, the subject of profiles last year in The Wall
Street Journal and the Washington Post, filed suit last fall
against Warfield's, a defunct Baltimore business magazine,
alleging libel in an Aug. 7 article. The suit was settled for
undisclosed terms, and the final issue of Warfield's in
December included an apology for and retraction of some of
the article's contents about Mr. Jacobs' personal finances.
   On the West Coast, Life Alert Emergency Response Inc. of
Chatsworth, Calif., filed suit in November, accusing the
Vallejo (Calif.) Times-Herald of libel in an article about
the company's tactics in the marketing of its emergency alert
systems. After the story was written, and before the libel
suit was filed, the California attorney general and district
attorneys from eight counties sued Life Alert, alleging
high-pressure sales tactics.
   Life Alert, which denies the attorney general's
allegations, sued the Vallejo newspaper because "what they
did was a complete fabrication of news," says company
spokesman Eric Bordo.
   But Vallejo Times-Herald publisher Jimmie Jones says he
doesn't understand why the company didn't sue other
newspapers that reported on Life Alert's sales tactics. "I'm
totally mystified as to why they singled us out," he says.
   ---
   COMMUNITIES' AUTHORITY to regulate dumps is bolstered by
California courts.
   The recent rulings by two courts in California, a hotbed
for environmental disputes, have implications for other
communities and local governments nationwide that are
fighting to win the right to exercise control over the
location and condition of unpopular toxic dump sites.
   Last week, Judge Jeffrey Gunther of the Sacramento
Superior Court ruled in favor of the mostly Spanish-speaking
residents of Kettleman City who sued Waste Management Inc.,
of Oak Brook, Ill., and the Kings County Board of Supervisors
to block the construction of a commercial toxic waste
incinerator. The plaintiffs said they have been unfairly
excluded from the decision-making process because they are
poor and minorities.
   Judge Gunther overturned the county's approval of the
plant, holding that the county deprived the plaintiffs of
"meaningful involvement" in the decision-making because key
notices and public testimony were not translated into
Spanish.
   The plaintiffs' claim that their town was picked as part
of a pattern of placing unpopular incinerators in minority
communities is also pending in a separate but similar suit in
federal court in Fresno, said Luke Cole, an attorney with the
California Rural Legal Assistance, an anti-poverty law firm,
which represents the plaintiffs.
   Sandy Svetcov, an attorney for Waste Management, said the
company is considering an appeal of the Superior Court
ruling.
   In another decision by the Supreme Court of California,
the state's highest court, local governments gained the right
to enforce their zoning laws to regulate state-owned dump
sites within their boundaries. The unanimous decision,
written by Judge Marvin Baxter, gives Solano County the right
to require IT Corp. to clean up a buffer zone around a dump
near Benicia.
   IT had sued Solano County officials, arguing that the
state's hazardous waste disposal law pre-empted counties and
municipalities from regulating state-owned dumps. The company
won in a lower court, and Solano County appealed.
   In his opinion overturning the trial judge, Judge Baxter
acknowledged that because few communities want a hazardous
waste dump located nearby, the state legislature "sought to
prevent local political pressure from crippling the functions
of a state-authorized facility." But Judge Baxter said the
county's order to clean up the buffer zone was a reasonable
exercise of its authority.
   Scott Gordon of Bruen & Gordon in Walnut Creek, who
represents IT, said that there may be grounds for challenging
the ruling in federal court, even though it was based on
state law.
   Mr. Gordon said the rulings will be a bellwether for
communities in other states who will "look at this and say,
`We have land-use authority.'"
   Mr. Cole of California Rural Legal Assistance said the two
rulings show that "the public must be included" in decisions
involving toxic dumps.
   ---
   NOTED: Helmut R. Kreis, a former official of a European
Community commission, became a partner in Morgan, Lewis &
Bockius's Brussels office. Mr. Kreis, who is qualified as a
German lawyer, was acting head of the transport and tourism
division of the EC Directorate-General for Competition.
Morgan Lewis's Brussels office helps clients lobby EC
institutions on proposed legislation. Mr. Kreis might
occasionally lobby before the transport and tourism division,
said Samuel B. Fortenbaugh III, chairman of the firm's
executive committee.