PERSONAL TECHNOLOGY
   ----
   By Walter S. Mossberg
To do this, you need a device called a modem. Most modems
are inexpensive; they're not particularly hard to install;
and with the right software to control them, they can be
pretty straightforward to operate. But learning about them is
confusing because the subject is cloaked in dense
communications jargon. Eyes glaze over when the experts start
trying to define the word "modem" by plunging into a
discussion of something called "modulation" (from which the
first syllable of "modem" is derived.)
   That won't happen here. Trust me; you don't need to know
about modulation to buy or use a modem. Instead, think of a
modem as a telephone for your computer, a specialized phone
that is designed to send computerized data -- such as text
and graphics -- instead of human voices, over phone lines.
That's the only basic concept you need.
   When you set out to buy a modem, there are two main issues
to consider: style and speed. Modems come in two styles.
Internal modems are naked circuit boards-sheets of silicon
covered with chips and other parts -- that fit into a slot
inside a computer. They need no cables to connect to the
computer and draw their electrical power from the computer.
   External modems pack the same circuitry into a little box
that sits on the desk and plugs into an electrical outlet.
They connect to the computer through a cable that fits into a
standard socket called a serial port on the back of the
computer.
   Both kinds of modems have at least one modular phone jack.
You can connect them to your regular phone line, but be
forewarned: Modem sessions can prevent callers from getting
through, and data can be disrupted if someone picks up the
phone during a modem session.
   There are lots of advantages to internal modems: fewer
cables, and no need to give up desk space, electrical outlets
or a serial port, which can be left free for other types of
add-on equipment. But some people prefer external modems
because they don't require you to fool around inside the
computer and often feature indicator lights that can tell you
at a glance the status of a call.
   The other major issue is the speed with which a modem can
transmit data over phone lines. This is measured in bits --
the smallest unit of computer data per second, or bps. The
most commonly available modems are rated at 1,200, 2,400 or
9,600 bps. (These ratings are also often expressed in terms
of "baud" rather than bps, but the numbers are the same.)
   Speed matters. The faster you can send or receive data,
the less you'll pay in phone bills and connection fees to
commercial services, which often charge by the minute. But
the fastest modems carry a steep price premium.
   For the vast majority of users, a 2,400 bps modem is the
best choice. A good one can be had for under $200. Most
commercial and corporate databases now run at 2,400 bps or
slower. The 9,600 bps models often cost $500 to $1,000, and
only run at top speed when you call another 9,600 bps modem.
Still, if you routinely exchange large amounts of data with
another 9,600 bps modem or are trying to link up remotely
with another PC, the extra cost may be worth it.
   Some modems also can send documents from your computer
screen to fax machines. They often cost only $50 or $100
more.
   Modems are becoming mass-market items, but steer away from
the very cheapest models and the most obscure brands. There
are too many quality brands to list here, but some major ones
with competitive prices are U.S. Robotics, Practical
Peripherals and Zoom Telephonics.
   Make sure your modem is "Hayes-compatible," meaning it
responds to a standard set of commands popularized by Hayes
Microcomputer Products, a big modem maker. Most are. Make
sure as well that the modem can automatically dial and answer
phone calls. Most now can. But the average user can ignore
most of the costly special features modem makers promote,
such as circuitry to correct transmission errors or compress
data.
   What you can't ignore is software. The final value of your
modem purchase will depend on getting a communications
program that's both sophisticated and easy to use. Many
modems come bundled with simple software, but I can recommend
especially two commercial programs: ProComm Plus, by
Datastorm, for IBM-compatibles, which sells for about $65,
and MicroPhone II (about $215), by Software Ventures, for
Apple's Macintosh computers and those IBM-compatibles that
use Microsoft's Windows program. Both will hide the modem's
complexity behind simple commands and screen displays that
will let you roam the world by phone from your desk.