International:
   Nintendo Ready
   To Drop Deal If
   Boos Get Loud
   ----
   By Yumiko Ono
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Mr. Yamauchi, together with Nintendo's U.S. unit, last
week announced plans to bankroll 60% of the $100 million
offer to purchase the major league franchise. The remainder
would come from an investor group made up of Pacific
Northwest business leaders.
   Mr. Yamauchi stressed at the news conference that he
decided to make the purchase specifically after Sen. Slade
Gorton of Washington asked him to do so. He added that the
company's investment is a service to the Seattle community,
and is different from the profit-seeking acquisitions made by
other Japanese companies. Nintendo won't get involved with
the team's management, or change the name of the team,
company officials stressed.
   Reports of the negative U.S. reaction to the proposed
Japanese purchase were headline news in the Japanese press.
Nihon Keizai Shimbun, Japan's leading business daily, said
the announcement comes at a sensitive time, when Japan and
the U.S. are bashing each other over trade frictions.
   Suntory Ltd., whose purchase two years ago of the
Birmingham, Ala., Barons minor-league franchise made it the
first Japanese owner of a U.S. baseball team, said it didn't
experience local opposition at the time of the purchase. "It
must be quite different between a major league and a minor
league," said a Suntory spokesman.
   A Nintendo spokeswoman conceded that some hostility "was
expected." But she added that the company was convinced by
Sen. Gorton that Japanese investment to prevent a U.S. major
league team from being moved to another city would actually
help ease U.S.-Japan frictions.
   Some Japanese, at least, support Nintendo's announcement.
"I thought it was a great idea," said Masamichi Hanabusa, a
spokesman for Japan's Ministry of Foreign Affairs. "Nintendo
is making big money in the U.S. Therefore, it must make
community life better."
   In the year ending March 31, Nintendo expects to increase
sales by 8.9% to 490 billion yen ($3.95 billion). Pretax
profit is expected to rise 7.1% to 150.4 billion yen.