Marketing  Media -- Advertising:
   R.J. Reynolds Battles the AMA,
   Defending Joe Camel Cartoon Ad
   ----
   By Kathleen Deveny
The centerpiece of R.J. Reynolds's get-tough policy is a
sharp attack on the Journal of the American Medical
Association, which published in December a series of articles
that attempted to document Joe Camel's popularity among
underage smokers. To further assuage critics, the company
plans to unveil newspaper ads later this week that endeavor
to dissuade childhood puffers.
   But some marketing experts warn the newly aggressive
stance may backfire, just as it did a few years ago for
tobacco industry leader Philip Morris Cos. Philip Morris's
outspoken attempts to burnish its image culminated in 1989
with a corporate image campaign that celebrated the
bicentennial of the Bill of Rights. Anti-smoking activists
quickly labeled the ads as an attempt to dodge the 1971 ban
against cigarette advertising on television, and a
congressional inquiry soon followed.
   "I think R.J. Reynolds is pursuing an enormously risky
strategy," says Jack Trout, president of Trout  Ries, a
marketing consulting firm based in Greenwich, Conn. "The more
they keep this issue in the press, the more they make
themselves a target."
   Indeed, smoking foes and health groups are already taking
aim. "We're tired of listening to these kinds of public
relations tactics," says Scott Ballin, a spokesman for a
coalition the American Cancer Society, the American Heart
Association and the American Lung Association. "We would like
to see all tobacco advertising eliminated and we're going to
continue to speak out on this issue."
   The Journal of the American Medical Association is
staunchly defending the Joe Camel studies and their authors.
The highly selective journal, which rejects up to 90% of all
articles submitted for publication, subjected the studies to
review by six outside experts -- twice the scrutiny most
articles receive. "The Journal is even more now convinced
that the findings are valid," says George D. Lundberg, JAMA's
editor. "The response we've had so far from the scientific
community has supported the findings without exception."
   But R.J. Reynolds isn't backing down. Since the tobacco
marketer, owned by RJR Nabisco Holdings Inc., began using Old
Joe to revive the Camel brand in 1988, it has insisted that
the character is used only to entice adult smokers to switch
brands. The average smoker, company officials say, makes such
a change an average of three times before the age of 35 -- an
ample opportunity to add new smokers.
   To reinforce that argument, the company last week sent
voluminous studies refuting the JAMA articles to reporters at
100 newspapers who covered the original flap. Company
officials assert that smoking by teen-agers isn't on the
rise, and that Camel's share of the underage market has been
vastly exaggerated -- despite the fact that the company says
it hasn't done any research of its own on society's youngest
smokers.
   Among R.J. Reynolds's criticisms of the JAMA articles:
inadequate sample sizes, faulty definitions of underaged
smokers, lack of counter-comment and a willingness on the
part of authors to leap to conclusions not supported by the
statistical evidence.
   "I feel science has been manipulated," says James W.
Johnston, chairman and chief executive of the tobacco
marketer. "Advertising is irrelevant to a young person's
decision to begin smoking."
   To counter a call from a coalition of health groups for a
total ban on the Old Joe campaign, the company fired off a
letter Jan. 23 to the Federal Trade Commission, requesting a
meeting with FTC Chairman Janet Steiger. Company officials
say they merely want the chance to present their own research
on young smokers -- a request the FTC has since granted.
   Yet despite the mounting criticism of the Old Joe ads,
R.J. Reynolds is more likely to fight than drop the highly
successful campaign. Since the company adopted the mascot
three years ago, Camel's share among smokers between the ages
of 18 and 24 has risen from 4.4% to 7.9%. As a result, even
the company officials concede its share among underage
smokers has also jumped.
   "It's the Catch-22 of cigarette advertising," says Richard
Winger, a partner with Boston Consulting Group. "When it
works, it makes you vulnerable to anti-smoking activists.
When it doesn't work, you waste your money."
   ---
   JWT Wins Tea Account
                                                                                                       

   The New York office of J. Walter Thompson, a unit of WPP
Group, won a new account from PepsiCo and Unilever for
ready-to-drink teas that the companies are introducing this
year.
   Anticipated billings couldn't be determined for the new
products, sold under the Lipton brand and distributed by
Pepsi. But spending in the new category is likely to be
aggressive, given stiff competition posed by Coca-Cola and
Nestle, which have teamed up under the Nestea brand.
Interpublic Group's McCann-Erickson won that account from J.
Walter Thompson in a Nestle consolidation last year.
   Pepsi/Lipton Tea Partnership, based in Purchase, N.Y.,
didn't conduct a formal competitive search, said Richard
Kundrat, the joint venture's vice president of marketing and
sales. Left out in the new assignment were the companies'
current agencies, which include Pepsi agency BBDO, a unit of
Omnicom Group, and Lipton agency Lintas, a unit of
Interpublic Group.
   JWT currently handles ads for Unilever brands Ragu and
Lever 2000, as well as for Pepsi in Canada and Lipton in
Canada and the U.K.
   ---
   Saatchi Forms Drug Agency
                                                                                                       

   Saatchi  Saatchi Co. PLC is forming Healthcom, a new
agency for global health-care accounts, by merging its
existing drug-promotion agencies around the world.
   Specialized drug advertising represents 2% of the British
holding company's current revenue, Saatchi Chief Executive
Robert Louis-Dreyfus said in an interview. But the segment is
growing at about 8% a year. Saatchi figures Healthcom will be
the third largest health-care agency, with 1990 billings
world-wide of about $27 million. D'Arcy, Masius, Benton 
Bowles's Medicus Intercon bills about $58.7 million, and
Young  Rubicam's Sudler  Hennessey bills about $39.5
million.
   ---
   Ad Notes. . . .
                                                                                                       

   REVIEWS: Swatch, a unit of Swiss company SMH, said it had
narrowed its search for a "long-term" agency to three New
York shops: Interpublic Group's Lintas; Euro RSCG's Della
Femina McNamee; and Deutsch Inc. A decision is expected this
month. The company is expected to bill an estimated $6
million this year, including its launch of Swatch Automatic,
a mechanical watch. Previously, Swatch ads were handled on a
project basis.
                                                                                                       

   ACCOUNTS: Hilton Hotels Corp. assigned advertising for the
Beverly Hilton to the Los Angeles office of Interpublic
Group's McCann-Erickson. McCann is staging a "major
repositioning" of the hotel, owned by Merv Griffin and
managed by Hilton.
                                                                                                       

   MORE `NEWSY' ADS: Cher stars in new interview-style
commercials via WPP Group's Ogilvy  Mather for NutraSweet
Co.'s Equal sweetener. The commercial shows the actress
discussing diet, fitness and Equal in an interview with a
real off-camera reporter from "A Current Affair," the company
said.