Wellcome Stock
   Falls as Trust
   Considers Sale
   ---
   UK Charitable Institution
   Might Offer Nearly 50%
   Of Drug Firm's Shares
   ----
   By Stephen D. Moore
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
Few details of the planned share offering were disclosed
by the trust, its financial advisers or the drug company. In
a phone interview, financial advisers to the trust emphasized
that decisions on timing, size and pricing of the proposed
offering would hinge on clearance of several legal hurdles --
as well as market conditions after July.
   "At the moment, we aren't putting an offering on the
table," insisted Lawrence Banks, a senior corporate finance
official at London securities firm Robert Fleming  Co., the
trust's financial adviser.
   The trust is applying to U.K. Charity Commissioners for
permission to go to the British courts for required clearance
to reduce its stake below 50.1%, Mr. Banks said. "If those
two hurdles are cleared, then we will consider an offer," he
said.
   Roger Gibbs, chairman of Wellcome Trust, said the proposed
share sale reflected a desire to diversify income-producing
assets. "When we went public (by selling an initial 21%
Wellcome stake) in 1986, the main reason was that the trust
had all its eggs in one particular basket. But as a result of
Wellcome's great success over the past six years, we're back
at the same point: Today, we have 95% of our income-producing
assets in Wellcome."
   Analysts agree that the trust would appear to have
compelling reasons to reduce its Wellcome stake now. Selling
high is one of them: The company's stock is trading near
record levels -- after more than doubling last year. But the
trust earns only about #50 million a year in dividends on its
holding, because Wellcome, like most drug companies, pays a
meager dividend and plows a high share of profits back into
research and development. Analysts suggested that by
reinvesting the proceeds of the proposed share sale, the
trust could boost its annual income by several hundred
million pounds.
   Wellcome Trust's announcement triggered a burst of
profit-taking by jittery investors fearful of the dilutive
effects that such a huge share offering might have on the
drug maker's share price. But dire consequences forecast by
some analysts for other British drug stocks failed to
materialize. Wellcome shares closed the day at 1,066 pence,
down 60 pence, after recovering from an early-trading
nosedive. British drug makers Glaxo Holdings PLC and
SmithKline Beecham PLC recouped initial declines to close
slightly higher in yesterday's trading session. That outcome
allayed fears of an immediate massive selloff of other drug
stocks by investors anxious to boost holdings of Wellcome,
whose shares traditionally have been in short supply in
London.
   Mr. Banks said that for technical reasons, July 1 would
probably be the earliest date for any possible offering of
the trust's Wellcome shares. "But you shouldn't read into
that that it's the date at which we will go. Timing is open,
and market conditions, not only in the U.K. but elsewhere,
clearly are going to be a determining factor."
   A large part of the trust's planned offering likely would
be placed in the U.S., analysts suggested. However, wary of
breaching U.S. market regulations against active promotion of
such an offering at this time, officials of the trust and
Wellcome executives emphasized that they were discussing
details from a British press release, which doesn't form part
of any offer for securities and which isn't for distribution
in the U.S., Canada or Japan.
   Although the will of Sir Henry Wellcome stipulates that
the trust maintain a controlling interest in the company he
founded, Mr. Gibbs, the trust's chairman, said trustees no
longer deem "control that important." He said the "general
opinion was that if we made a move it probably would be to
something just above 50%. But we believe it's right to make
one firm move . . . so that people realize there won't be
piecemeal sales over the years."
   He added: "We've said we'd like to maintain a longer-term
holding of at least 25%. Emphasis should be put on `at
least,' and by long term, we mean a minimum of five years."
   The trust hasn't taken an active role in management, but
its controlling shareholding has made Wellcome
takeover-proof. Some analysts suggested that the company
might attempt to replace its protective owner by adopting
some type of anti-takeover provisions. Wellcome's chief
executive officer, John Robb, scoffed at such suggestions,
however.
   Mr. Robb observed that such measures were considered
inappropriate by London's Stock Exchange. He added: "The
question of a possible hostile takeover isn't really a
serious one as far as we're concerned. This is a tremendously
successful company; (our stock) is selling on a multiple of
between 35 and 40 times projected earnings; and we believe
the best defense from takeover speculation is performance."
   Wellcome is best known for its AIDS drug AZT, also called
Retrovir, and for Zorivax, which combats the herpes virus.
   Yesterday, Wellcome disclosed that pretax profit for the
six months ended Feb. 29 is expected to surge 30% to #235
million on a 20% increase in sales to about #880 million,
compared with the year-earlier period. "In the light of this
important announcement, we wanted to give shareholders some
idea of what the latest reporting period had been like," Mr.
Robb said.
   Mr. Robb didn't rule out possible acquisitions or mergers
by Wellcome. And some analysts suggested that major strategic
moves could be easier following an ownership shake-up.
"Wellcome should be in a position to raise money more
efficiently in international capital markets with the new
share structure" and with 75% of its shares actively traded
in open markets, said Duncan Moore, a London-based analyst
for Morgan Stanley  Co.
   Mr. Moore expects Wellcome's stock to trade sideways until
details of the trust's offering are disclosed. But he doesn't
anticipate "any dramatic change in market valuation from
where Wellcome was prior to today."