Your Money Matters:
   Wallflower U.S. Savings Bonds Now Outpace Bank CDs
   ----
   By Karen Slater
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
"I've always thought savings bonds were good," says Ernst
 Young tax specialist William G. Brennan, but the drop in
rates "has made them even more attractive." Indeed, Mr.
Brennan says savings bonds are now attractive for people who
might redeem their holding in as little as six months, a far
shorter period than he and others have recommended in the
past.
   The basic Series EE bonds still deliver their greatest
punch if held for at least five years. The investor then
collects the higher of two interest rates: A guaranteed
minimum of 6% a year or a market-based rate that is adjusted
semiannually to be 85% of the return on five-year Treasury
notes. The current semiannual rate: 6.38%.
   These days, the combination of a 6% minimum and upside
potential makes savings bonds look much better than, say, a
five-year CD. The average rate on five-year CDs is 5.68%,
according to a survey of 100 banks and thrifts by Bank Rate
Monitor of North Palm Beach, Fla. People who buy those CDs
won't get any added return if interest rates rebound from
today's low levels.
   Moreover, savings bonds always beat CDs where taxes are
concerned. Federal income tax can be deferred until the bonds
are redeemed. And the interest on savings bonds, like other
Treasury obligations, is free from state and local tax. "If
you live in a state with a significant state tax, that is
quite a nice tax advantage," says Malcolm A. Makin, a
Westerly, R.I., financial planner.
   What about people who don't want to tie their money up for
five years? Mr. Makin, echoing Mr. Brennan, says the decline
in market interest rates "opens up a new realm of
possibilities" for using savings bonds as a shorter-term
play.
   People who redeem savings bonds in less than five years
don't get the market-based rate. They earn fixed rates of
interest that used to seem punitively low -- but no more.
   For example, savings bonds held for six months pay
interest at an annual rate of 4.16%. That's a little more
than the average 4% rate on six-month CDs, as tracked by Bank
Rate Monitor. And it compares to an average seven-day simple
yield of 4.19% on money-market funds, according to
IBC/Donoghue's Money Fund Report of Ashland, Mass. (All these
interest figures are before compounding.)
   One caveat: Savings bonds cannot be redeemed before six
months have elapsed, except in an emergency.
   Savings bonds held for one year pay 4.27%, compared with a
current average rate of 4.15% on one-year CDs. At two years,
the savings bond rate of 4.64% is a little lower than the
average CD rate of 4.70%.
   The increased allure of savings bonds hasn't gone
unnoticed. Sales in the first several business days of 1992
were running at about twice 1991's average pace, according to
Thomas E. Anfinson, executive director of the Treasury
Department's savings bond division. Sales rose to a record of
more than $9 billion in 1991, which was the 50th anniversary
for the savings bond program.
   "People are aware we have a very attractive investment at
this time," Mr. Anfinson says.
   Investors who want to get in on the deal don't need to
look too far. Series EE bonds can be purchased and redeemed
at most commercial banks and many thrift institutions. Many
corporations offer savings bonds for purchase through payroll
deduction. That's "forced and easy," and thus a real boon to
people who have trouble putting money aside, says Karen
Schaeffer, a Bethesda, Md., financial planner.
   U.S. savings bonds aren't the right choice for people who
need current cash, because holders don't collect their
interest until the bonds are redeemed.
   Other savings bond basics: The minimum investment is $25,
for a bond with a face value of $50. Buyers don't need to pay
too much attention to the face value, but that is what the
bond's value will be after 12 years at the 6% minimum rate.
Investors can actually hold onto their Series EE bonds for as
long as 30 years, all the while building up interest and
still deferring income taxes.
   Some parents who use the bonds to save for their kids'
college bills may get an extra tax benefit. Subject to income
limitations and other restrictions, they may be able to avoid
paying any tax at all on the interest.
   The most an individual can invest in a single year is
$15,000. Current rate information is available by calling
800-4USBOND.
   If market rates fall even further, it's possible the
Treasury Department might decide to cut the guaranteed
minimum rate for future savings bond purchases. The
government did just that back in November 1986, lowering the
floor from an earlier 7.5%.
   Mr. Anfinson is watching warily for any such moves higher
up in the Treasury Department. But he says, "to our
knowledge, it has not even been discussed."