The FDA vs. the First Amendment
   ----
   By John E. Calfee
The problem of unapproved uses arises from the
peculiarities of the FDA's drug approval process. The FDA
approves new drugs only for specified applications -- to
treat a particular form of cancer, for example. But
physicians are free to prescribe approved drugs for any use,
so research continues in search of other uses. These new uses
are almost never submitted for FDA approval, because the
millions of dollars and years of effort needed for a second
approval cannot be justified for a drug whose patent life has
already been abbreviated by the original lengthy approval
process.
   The extent of off-label use of approved drugs is unknown
because physicians do not have to tell pharmacists why a drug
is being prescribed. But crude estimates are that unapproved
uses account for at least one-fourth of all prescriptions. A
recent government survey of cancer chemotherapy treatments,
in the Journal of the American Medical Association, found
that almost all the surveyed drugs were sometimes prescribed
for off-label uses and that over half of all patients had
received drugs for off-label uses.
   The potential value of off-label applications is
unquestioned. Many eventually make their way to the basic
medical compendiums published by the American Medical
Association and other groups. Some states (including New York
and Michigan) have explicitly stopped using FDA approval as
the sole basis for judging which pharmaceutical uses are
valid.
   The parties in the best position to inform physicians
about new uses are often pharmaceutical firms. They have the
knowledge (from sponsoring research that reveals new uses),
and they have the incentive to make their knowledge available
to others. Nonetheless, the FDA will not allow manufacturers
to promote any off-label use. Information cannot move through
the usual and most efficient channels: product labels, ads
and salespeople.
   This led some years ago to the creation of a "gray market"
in information, in which drug firms found ways to provide
information to physicians without directly offending the FDA.
Popular methods included press conferences, teleconferencing,
distribution of journal reprints, newsletters and,
especially, symposiums or seminars in which experts presented
the latest results to physicians. These were expensive but
effective ways to move information quickly from the lab to
everyday medical practice. Drug firms willingly covered the
costs and even sponsored symposiums in which they had
essentially no control over what speakers said.
   These financial arrangements made eminent economic sense.
The pharmaceutical firm knew better than anyone else whether
the latest information was worth this expense. If the
information was as valuable as the firm thought it was, the
cost of providing it was likely to be recouped through
increased sales; if the information was worthless, the cost
was borne by the firm.
   In the past six months or so, the FDA has largely
dismantled this system by cracking down on the promotion of
off-label uses. Cancer newsletters have been shut down.
Symposiums have nearly been brought to a halt. In a classic
Catch-22, the FDA has prohibited firms from covering
physicians' travel expenses while also prohibiting firms from
repeating the same symposium in multiple locations. Press
conferences announcing new applications (usually from
controlled clinical trials) are for the most part eliminated.
   Doctors are even being encouraged to call an 800 number to
report pharmaceutical representatives who engage in
"suspicious" behavior (such as telling a physician that the
National Cancer Institute endorses an off-label use).
Finally, the FDA has threatened to seek criminal prosecutions
of physicians and pharmaceutical employees who cross what the
FDA considers to be the line separating promotion from
information.
   All this takes place in the context of a regulatory regime
of breathtaking rigidity. The FDA position is that mentioning
any unapproved use, no matter how well established, is
inherently misleading to physicians. If you are dying of
cancer and a pharmaceutical salesman making his rounds knows
that one of his firm's drugs had been shown in a double-blind
controlled clinical trial to be effective in fighting your
condition, the salesman would risk his career and perhaps his
freedom by giving this information to your oncologist.
   The FDA's crackdown has ripple effects. Reimbursement
authorities balk at paying for therapies that the FDA
believes should not even be mentioned by manufacturers.
Physicians then feel compelled to drop unapproved therapies
in favor of less effective approved uses, or physicians may
simply put patients in a hospital, where prescriptions are
not so closely scrutinized by insurance companies.
   Worst of all are the effects on information. A leading
support group for cancer patients has strongly objected that
the new policy will keep patients from receiving the best
therapies. Oncologists have declared that patients will die
because practicing physicians will not learn of efficacious
treatments. The director of the National Cancer Institute's
Division of Cancer Treatment has objected specifically to the
shutting down of newsletters from pharmaceutical firms,
saying "what really matters is the content of the report" on
new research results. Ultimately, research designed to
discover uses will slacken. Why find a better mousetrap if
you can't tell anyone how it works?
   Drug firms put up with these absurdities because the FDA
staff has so much discretion in the approval process that
only a foolhardy pharmaceutical executive would do anything
to offend that staff. Over and over again, individual firms
and the entire industry have agreed without a fight to the
most onerous of staff demands, even forsaking their First
Amendment right to tell practicing physicians about the
results of clinical trials or about the therapeutic
recommendations of the National Cancer Institute. In a draft
set of guidelines on medical symposiums, the FDA proposes to
regulate the content of all industry-supported symposiums
regardless of whether the sponsoring firms have any control
over the content of the presentations.
   The FDA thinks the solution to all this is simply to
approve more uses. Commissioner David Kessler has announced a
plan to identify, study, select and eventually approve some
of the off-label uses that have achieved coinage among
physicians. But this complex plan will be undertaken by the
same bureaucracy that caused the problem. The process will be
glacially slow, leaving the information problem unsolved.
Moreover, the FDA staff will probably point to the new plan
as justification for even tighter scrutiny of what it
considers to be promotion of off-label uses.
   The solution is to move regulation of promotion to the
Federal Trade Commission, which possessed such authority as
recently as 1962. The FTC has a far better understanding of
market processes. More important, the FTC would not have the
extra power to approve new drugs. It would therefore be
forced to permit the rough-and-tumble airing of views that
should always accompany major policy initiatives such as the
current onslaught on promotion.
   As things stand now, the transmission of crucial medical
information is crippled by an agency whose distrust of market
processes seems to know no bounds. Exorcising the profit
motive from information about drugs makes no more sense than
removing profits from the development of drugs in the first
place. The FDA even doubts the intelligence and motives of
American doctors, who are presumed to lose either their
desire or their ability to make rational decisions whenever a
pharmaceutical firm provides them with a reprint from the
Journal of the American Medical Association.
   In its refusal to recognize the disciplining role of
markets and physician common sense, the FDA seems prepared to
sacrifice sound medical practice and freedom of speech.
   ---
   Mr. Calfee, an associate professor of marketing at Boston
University, worked from 1980 to 1986 at the FTC, where he
dealt with the regulation of food and drug ads. This is
adapted from a longer piece to appear in the March-April
American Enterprise.