Thatcher's Heirs, Reagan's Heirs
   ----
   By David Brooks
But the issue that really animated the conferees -- that
had them perspiring on their mobile phones -- was the
last-minute effort to derail the chairmanship campaign of
Martin Potter, 25. Mr. Potter's sins include facial hair and
an interest in railway history.
   The Young Conservatives are concerned that during the
Thatcher years their organization developed the reputation as
a home for socially awkward young people who sit up late at
night reading pamphlets on privatizing the educational
system. The coup plotters at Eastbourne astutely realized
that in times of political normality, people will not do
political gruntwork because of ideological fervor, but need
more normal motivations -- such as the chance to meet members
of the opposite sex as ambitious as themselves.
   A new slate came into being, promising hipness, lots of
partying and no facial hair. Mr. Potter -- dubbed "Potter the
Train Spotter" -- never knew what hit him.
   In their own insufferable way, the Young Conservatives
have addressed the task that has utterly defeated George
Bush. They have tried to create a style of politics suited to
the post-Reagan/Thatcher era of normality, but that still
advances the conservative agenda.
   These Young Conservatives have never shaved except under
Conservative government. That means they never experienced
the feeling of being an outsider that "Movement
Conservatives" in the U.S. and "One of Us" Thatcherites
experienced in the 1960s and 1970s. They tend to be more
genial, less embattled than their eldersmore conformist, less
nerdy. Taking for granted the institutions of the
conservative counter-establishment -- think tanks, the
conservative press -- they also take Thatcherism as their
political center of gravity, not as some radical departure.
They are novel political creatures: Stalwart conservatives
who can get dates.
   The acid test for conservatives is the tabloid press (the
equivalent of talk radio in the U.S.). Most of the
pre-Thatcher conservatives have guilty consciences about the
massively popular Tory tabloids, which are read by millions
of working-class people (known in Britain as C-2s, and in the
U.S. as Reagan Democrats). The older Tories are vaguely
embarrassed by the tabloids' jingoism, their emotional
appeals on social issues, their outrage over crime. For the
younger set, working-class conservatism is a natural and
wonderful fact of life. Their attitude toward the tabloids
tends to be: Let 'em rip.
   George Bush faces a choice they will never face, whether
to be an establishment figure or a conservative outsider. Mr.
Bush, typically unable to define himself, flops around like a
fish in a rowboat. On the campaign trail, he tries to
impersonate a Reaganite conservative (and in the process
comes out looking like a French kid trying to do rap music --
lots of effort, no effect). But back in Washington, this
ideological slumming doesn't translate into a governing
philosophy. There, Mr. Bush reverts to his establishmentarian
instincts, which often produce rudderless conciliation. To
borrow the French categories, Mr. Bush campaigns as if the
Republicans are the Party of Movement, but governs as if they
are the Party of Order.
   The grown-up British conservatives face the same kind of
choice as Mr. Bush, but they haven't bungled it as badly as
he has. The current leaders of the party argue that
conservatism's radical phase is over. "Conservative politics
are not the same as Maoism," Conservative Party chairman
Chris Patten argues. "We don't need to turn everything upside
down again or to endorse permanent revolution." Instead he
wants the emphasis to be on consolidation, not confrontation.
He wants a country "at peace with itself."
   These are deeply conservative instincts, but junior
members of the party want to keep the Thatcher revolution on
track, and at full speed. Michael Portillo, one of John
Major's important domestic policy advisers, took a veiled
shot at Mr. Patten, his former mentor, under the guise of
talking about a similar debate that took place in 1987: "The
would-be consolidators were asking us to throw away our
greatest single advantage over Labor: the fact that we had
ideas and were prepared to pursue reforms."
   Here too, an important difference is generational, and it
mirrors the generational splits that cleave the U.S.
Republican Party. Mr. Patten is among the class of Tory
politicians who entered Parliament in 1979, when Mrs.
Thatcher was elected prime minister. His cohorts were the
last Tories to form their views in the pre-Thatcher world.
Mr. Patten helped found the Blue Chip caucus, disdaining Mrs.
Thatcher's radicalism, and uncomfortable with Thatcherite
appeals to working-class social issues. Mr. Patten would like
to see the Tories mimic Germany's Christian Democratic Party,
with its huge social services. Mr. Portillo entered
Parliament in a 1984 by-election, with the first group of
Thatcher-era parliamentarians. Calling themselves the No
Turning Back group, they remain the bubbling cauldron of
Thatcherism.
   John Major joined politics in 1979, but significantly, he
was not a member of the Blue Chips (perhaps he didn't have
the social credentials). Thirteen months in office, he
remains a policy enigma, but a personally popular one. In
style, he is in many ways the opposite of Mrs. Thatcher. He
is genial, not unrelenting; modest, not inspiring (or
exhausting); he radiates suburban domesticity, not the
political hothouse. Where he stands on the Patten-Portillo
divide is still unclear.
   For Thatcherites, the agenda for the '90s is
straightforward. It is to continue gradual tax cutting, and
to debureaucratize social services. The education department
remains genuinely radical, promoting school choice. Tory
health service reforms, which introduce competition to the
system, are beginning to succeed. Public housing sales and
privatization would continue, most immediately the
privatization of British Coal and British Rail. All of this
would reduce the size of the public sector unions, the
backbone of Labor support.
   Mr. Major has not shied away from any of this. In
comparison to George Bush, Mr. Major has been a good leader
for the post-Thatcher/Reagan era. He has kept his sense of
direction, without letting himself be guided by the other
side's criteria. It helps that he has to go to Parliament
every week and get in a screaming match with his opposition.
Mr. Bush can't seem to remember which players are on his team
and which are on the other.
   Mr. Major shares Mr. Bush's weakness on public spending,
which has ballooned during both their tenures. Mr. Major's
excuse is that he's been in campaign-mode since his first day
in office, and has been assiduously trying to bribe as many
voters as possible.
   The British election shows how tough it is for a
right-wing party to lose these days. The British are dragging
along the bottom of their longest recession in 60 years.
After 13 years of Conservative rule, the public is sick of
the Tories' faces. Yet the Tories remain even in the polls.
When it seemed like they were slipping behind last month,
they pulled out the tax issue, which proved devastating.
(George Bush blew that one.)
   But their campaign strategy, devised by Mr. Patten, bears
the marks of a conciliator's campaign. Instead of emphasizing
strengths, the Tories are trying to neutralize their
weaknesses by boasting of how much money they really are
spending on, say, the National Health Service.
   Someday a leader will come along with the genial,
establishmentarian personality of John Major and the
ideological instincts of Margaret Thatcher. In Britain, that
person could still be John Major. In the U.S., George Bush
probably has just one last chance.
   ---
   Mr. Brooks is deputy editorial page editor of The Wall
Street Journal Europe.