The Regulatory Reign of Terror
   ----
   By Glenn Yago
It's also a useful time to ponder the history of the
much-maligned and still largely misunderstood junk bond
market. To understand why this market developed and the
signficiant role it played funding the economic growth of the
1980s, it is necessary to realize the fundamental
relationship between capital, economic growth and employment.
Only then does it become clear that the reason the
long-awaited economic recovery hasn't happened is because the
government has made it unfashionable to lend to job-creating
new businesses.
   In the early 1980s, when the stock market was weak and the
prime rate was at an all-time high of 20%, many companies
sought new capital. They did not want to be held captive, as
they had been in the '70s, to the ebbs and flows of
traditional lending sources. And so high-yield ("junk")
securities, which had been around for decades, began to play
an increasingly prominent role. By amply rewarding those
willing to take the risk of investing in the future success
of new or restructuring companies, high-yield debt opened
doors of opportunity that would otherwise have remained
closed. Issuers of junk bonds included such long-established
industry leaders as Mattel, Chrysler and Stone Container, as
well as as MCI, Turner Broadcasting and McCaw Cellular.
   History speaks for itself. In the 1980s, American
businesses borrowed more than $180 billion in high-yield
capital. Some 17 million new jobs were created -- primarily
by companies that would not have qualified for
investment-grade capital. During the same period the Fortune
500 eliminated 3.65 million jobs. Given the surge in
high-yield lending to America's growth businesses and the
resulting growth in jobs, it is not surprising that gross
national product rose from $2.5 trillion in 1979 to $5.2
trillion in 1989 (in today's dollars).
   How did investors fare during this period? For the 10
years from 1981-1991, the high-yield market averaged returns
of 14.1%, outperforming 10-year Treasury bills (10.4%) and
the Dow Jones Industrial Average (12.9%).Despite this record,
junk bonds became a scapegoat for virtually every economic
ill of the '80s. "Toxic waste," and "house of cards" are some
of the nicer epithets that have been hurled at them.
   Rarely has the divergence between public perception and
economic evidence been so striking. The junk bond "Ponzi
scheme" has been blamed for the SL crisis, yet only 5% of
thrifts held junk bonds, representing only 1.2% of the
thrift's industry total asset value. Junk bonds have been
blamed for takeovers, yet they provided no more than 5% of
takeover financing. They have been blamed for bankruptcies
and defaults, yet companies in bankruptcy or default
constituted only about 10% of the junk-bond market at its
peak in 1990 and less than 4% for the decade. And they have
been blamed for plant closings and massive layoffs even
though, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, only 6%
of plant shutdowns and job losses can be ascribed to firms
involved in restructuring or high-yield financing. The
overwhelming majority of plant shutdowns were by
investment-grade firms not by firms financed through junk
bonds.
   What happened?
   Like any market, the junk bond market was not without
problems. These began to surface at the end of the '80s.
Deal-hungry merger-and-acquisition departments on Wall Street
overpriced issues in poorly structured, fee-driven
transactions. Some players were more interested in fees for
closing deals than in creating safe capital structures for
investors. Some players foolishly continued in 1988 and 1989
to copy deals they had made in 1984 and 1985 although prices,
values and the business environment had changed.
   The deterioration in the quality of high-yield issues was
exacerbated when investment bankers began providing billions
of dollars in bridge loans before the market was given a
chance to assess the underlying transaction's true value.
First Boston, PaineWebber, and Dillon, Read made this costly
mistake with Allied/Federated department stores and Ohio
Mattress; Salomon Brothers made a similar error with Revco,
Grand Union and TVX; and Goldman Sachs botched Southland and
Macy's.
   But bad deals have been made in every market, and left to
their own devices, markets correct themselves. The junk bond
market didn't get that chance. Instead, it was pushed into a
free fall by government intervention.
   In the fall of 1989, the Financial Institutions Reform and
Recovery Act, or FIRREA, forced thrifts to liquidate their
junk bond portfolios. Overnight, profitable SLs were turned
into government-owned basket cases. FIRREA forced thrifts to
sell off their junk bonds, which constituted approximately 7%
of the total junk bond market. Most were put up for sale 90
days after the signing of FIRREA. The forced sell-off caused
prices to plummet in what was already a thinly traded market.
Old-fashioned bank runs ensued, and once-healthy SLs ended
up in the hands of the Resolution Trust Corporation.
   And so the RTC became the country's largest owner of junk
bonds, with a portfolio valued at $5 billion to $6 billion.
The panic selling set off by FIRREA was compounded by the
RTC, which flooded the market by selling off $1.6 billion of
its junk-bond holdings at the market's low-water mark in
1990. Had the RTC held those bonds another year, it could
have sold them for $640 million more. Over that period,
average returns of junk bonds reached 39.2%. Tell that to the
taxpayer.
   A concrete example of this destructive process is Columbia
Savings and Loan of California. Under FIRREA, Columbia was
forced to sell off its junk-bond debt in early 1990 at the
market's trough. It then became insolvent. A review of
Columbia's $2.8 billion portfolio shows that if Columbia
hadn't been forced to sell off its junk-bond debt, it would
have had a profit of $200 million by September 1991, or a
return of 9.8% in the two-year period since the enactment of
FIRREA.
   Insurance regulation became another means of restricting
capital invested in the junk bond market. Illinois and New
York passed legislation limiting insurance company
investments in junk bonds. The National Association of
Insurance Commissioners created a new rating system under
which all high-yield bonds were effectively downgraded. This
saddled insurers with high loss-reserve requirements that
made even better-quality junk bonds too expensive to hold.
Moreover, these categorizations were used by bank regulators
(along with limits on highly leveraged transactions) to
restrict lending further.
   This fear of lending reached private and public pension
funds as well. In California, for example, State Treasurer
Kathleen Brown decided last year to liquidate the junk-bond
holdings of the California Public Employees' Retirement
System for $380 million, even though the face value of that
portfolio was $500 million. She took this action despite the
fact that Calpers had made a 13.2% return on its high-yield
investment. Similar selloffs were proposed in New York and
other states by government officials who know how to ride a
political hobby horse. Mutual funds got caught in the
hysteria and pulled $3.2 billion out of the market in 1990.
Many private money managers did the same.
   And so, in 1989 and 1990, capital flows to entrepreneurs
nearly stopped. According to the Federal Reserve's Flow of
Funds data, net new commercial bank loans to non-financial
corporations fell to $2 billion in 1990 from $33.1 billion in
1989. Over the same period, proceeds raised in the junk-bond
market dropped to $1.4 billion from $27.6 billion. Venture
capital, initial public offerings of equity, and other
entrepreneurial sources of investment capital contracted to
$91 billion in 1990 from $287 billion at their peak in 1987.
   Happily, a good market is hard to kill. Despite
everything, the high-yield bond market rebounded last year.
(Whoever heard of a Ponzi scheme coming back?) In 1991, new
issues rose to $9.9 billion, up from $1.4 billion in 1990.
Non-investment-grade companies raised $11.5 billion in the
equity markets. Mutual funds that had fled the market
returned with $3.65 billion of new investments, more than
offsetting the total outflow for 1990.
   That's the good news. The bad news is that there is still
not nearly enough capital available to entrepreneurs. The Ted
Turners of the '90s can't get started. There's no end in
sight to what Jack Kemp has called "the regulatory reign of
terror" in the capital markets. The boom '80s have been
converted to the bust '90s.
   ---
   Mr. Yago, a professor of management at State University of
New York, Stony Brook, is the author of "Junk Bonds: How
High-Yield Securities Restructured Corporate America,"
(Oxford, 1991).