LEISURE  ARTS
   Julie Taymor: Innovative Stage Director Tries TV
   ----
   By Eileen Blumenthal
In "Fool's Fire," a dwarf is kidnapped and forced to
become court jester to a coarse, nasty king and royal
ministers. When the beautiful midget Trippetta is brought to
the palace as a new toy, Hop-Frog falls in love with her, and
then takes horrible revenge against their tormentors.
   In visualizing the tale, Ms. Taymor planned from the start
that Hop-Frog and Trippetta would be the only real humans in
a cast of exaggerated masks and puppets. "The court thinks of
Hop-Frog as a puppet and as a monkey -- but from his point of
view, the courtiers are all puppets. When the king is excited
about the idea of the orangutan costume, he says to Hop-Frog,
`I will make a man of you.' I'm playing with irony," Ms.
Taymor explains.
   She also used real (or real-looking) animals in the king's
barn and on royal banquet platters. The king's ministers,
latex caricatures, stick their knives and forks into actual
fish and pheasant. In another scene, flipping the irony, Ms.
Taymor makes the courtiers' crude wooden sexdolls the only
beings that show empathy for the abused Trippetta.
   As the small (real) people, Ms. Taymor cast Michael
Anderson and the French actress Mireille Moss -- neither of
whom had ever played anything remotely like their roles in
"Fool's Fire."
   For the king and his court, Ms. Taymor cast performers
who, with one exception, had never worked with masks or
puppets. "I wanted great acting, and I wanted idiosyncrasy to
come out in the movement. I designed and sculpted masks, but
the people who inhabit those faces are the personalities.
Without them, they're sculptures. They're nothing." And the
transformations in and out of character were marvelous to
watch: "You'd see these young, skinny, good-looking guys come
out of those grotesque bodies."
   "Fool's Fire" presented these performers with unusual
technical challenges. For close-ups of the king, four actors
had to coordinate their movements: a "body double" was inside
the arms and torso (the legs were stuffed); the main king
actor, Tom Hewitt, spoke the dialogue and manipulated the
head with his hands, which were inserted through a hole in
the back; and two other actors handled cables to create
additional facial movements. At a royal banquet, the
body-double brought greasy fistfuls of turkey to the king's
mouth, which he couldn't see; and Mr. Hewitt, watching a
mirror image of a monitor, tried to grab the turkey with his
hand and pull it inside, making appropriate snarfing sounds.
   Despite such "made-for-video" antics, "Fool's Fire" is a
logical extension of Ms. Taymor's stage work. Her eclectic
background includes the study of mime in Paris, puppetry in
Eastern Europe, Japan and Indonesia, and masked-dance work in
Indonesia. As a director, she's worked mainly with original
scripts, including her own adaptation of the Uruguayan short
story "Juan Darin." That show, which she created in 1988 with
her frequent collaborator and long-term companion, the
composer Elliot Goldenthal, finally brought her major
attention, including a 1991 MacArthur "genius" fellowship.
   Though this is her first film, her work in live theater
has frequently been cinematic -- creating effects on stage
that one normally associates with camera technique. For
example, in a section of "Juan Darin," she began with a "long
shot" of a mountain village by putting a 10-foot-high
sculpted set on the stage. Then she lit up tiny house-windows
in the village, one by one, revealing moving silhouettes
(shadow puppets) inside -- carrying the audience's eye along
as a panning camera would. That sequence concluded with a
woman rocking her child in one miniature window. Then the
whole village set rotated. The reverse side showed a live
scene -- in effect a close-up -- of the woman cradling what
now could be seen as a baby's coffin.
   If Ms. Taymor's theater work has been cinematic, her first
movie is highly theatrical -- with its frankly non-real
characters and, at times, obviously non-real scenery. But she
has also exploited the particular powers of film, including
editing, camera angles and camera movement. Often she focuses
on a flat surface -- a cabbage leaf, a painted landscape
drop, a puppet -- theater curtain -- and then literally opens
them up onto the next scene, creating a storybook feeling.
She used camera movement to underscore emotions. And she
filmed one fifth of "Fool's Fire" using the cutting-edge
technology of high-definition TV to piece different elements
into a single image.
   The only bump in Ms. Taymor's otherwise smooth segue from
stage to screen was the post-production expurgation of the
piece. In the "offending" section, the king, in a voice-over,
muses aloud, using comic, scatological mock-philosophy from
Rabelais's "Gargantua," about the "miraculous sensation" one
can obtain from a "well-downed goose."
   PBS asked Ms. Taymor to omit the passage, but she felt it
should remain -- partly on moral grounds. It seemed important
to emphasize the king's repulsiveness as an additional
motivation for the terrible revenge that Hop-Frog wreaks. For
Ms. Taymor, a bit of course language -- from a classic -- is
far less objectionable than gratuitous violence.
   Not so, apparently, in today's arts-funding climate. PBS
insisted that an alternate version of "Fool's Fire," minus
the Rabelais text, be offered "for use by stations who have
their own community standards about what they consider
airable." Asked if PBS felt other classic texts with coarse
language, including Shakespeare, might require alternate,
cleaned-up versions, Melinda Ward, head of cultural
programming, responded that at PBS they "look at each case,
case by case."
   She insisted that the decision to bowdlerize "Fool's Fire"
had nothing to do with the current attacks on arts funding.
Perhaps. PBS has created alternate versions of shows from
time to time over the years. Still, the "Fool's Fire"
decision came within days after the head of the NEA was fired
and a Corporation for Public Broadcasting funding bill was
held up in Congress. "If they're going to start censoring on
that level," Ms. Taymor says, "they're going to have only the
softest, most watered-down art on television. They're going
to scare away anyone who has an edge."
   "Fool's Fire" is scheduled to air on PBS stations at 8
p.m. on March 25. Check local listings as times may vary. An
exhibition -- including the masks, costumes, story boards and
some sets for "Fool's Fire" -- is on display at the New York
Public Library for the Performing Arts at Lincoln Center,
through April 25.
   ---
   Ms. Blumenthal is a professor of theater arts at Rutgers.