Management:
   Brass at ATT
   Get New Carrot,
   But With String
   ----
   By Amanda Bennett
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
A handful of companies so far have experimented with such
so-called "premium-priced" options. "It's really quite
uncommon," says Eric Scoones, a principal with compensation
consulting firm William M. Mercer Inc.
   But because of ATT's size and visibility, its move could
prove a powerful boost to the concept of premium options.
And, compensation experts say, the increasing scrutiny of
executive pay is putting pressure on more and more companies
to link pay to performance. "We are likely to see a lot more
of these in the future," says Louis Brindisi, of consulting
firm Strategic Compensation Associates. He says he is
developing such programs for clients now.
   The apparent virtues of such programs are that executives
don't profit until the stock price has risen. "The
compensation committee feels that the share owners have to
benefit before the executives do," says an ATT spokesman,
who said the company's plan puts more of the executives'
compensation pay at risk.
   But in ATT's case, there's little risk to the executives
because the new stock-option program simply offers a
potential addition to regular salary and stock options.
   The proxy shows that Mr. Allen's salary and bonus last
year increased about 2% to $2.1 million. A company spokesman
added that Mr. Allen's pay from certain longer-term incentive
programs increased 24%, to $673,366 from $543,018.
   The proxy also discloses that last year Mr. Allen was
given 312,526 stock options. Of those, the company says,
62,526 are considered a regular annual stock-option grant,
which compares with a grant of 44,898 in the year earlier.
   The remainder of last year's grant, options on 250,000
shares, is a special onetime grant that can be exercised over
10 years. Of those options, the company says that one-quarter
can be exercised at the market value on the date of the
grant, which the proxy puts at $38.69. The next quarter can
be exercised at $46.43, which is market value plus 20%; the
next quarter at $50.29, or market value plus 30%; the final
quarter can be exercised at $58.03, which is market value
plus 50%.
   A stock option is the right to buy a share of stock at a
fixed price some time in the future. That fixed price is
normally the market price of the stock on the date of the
grant. Some companies occasionally make grants at a discount
from current market price. Only a few executives' grants,
among them a grant to Walt Disney Co. Chief Executive Michael
Eisner, are at prices above market value.
   It is harder for an executive to gain under the ATT
program because the stock price on a large portion of the
grant must rise first. But because of the big amount of
options, the potential profit is large.
   Using one common pricing method, Mr. Allen's special
option grant has a value today of $2.3 million.
   What's more, an executive could gain handsomely even from
a moderate increase in the company's stock price. If the
stock price appreciates by no more than 15.9% a year, which
is the telecommunication industry's median annual stock-price
increase over the past five years, Mr. Allen's options would
be worth about $30 million in 2001, at the end of their
10-year life, says Kate Morgans, a principal with Strategic
Compensation Associates. "It's a lot of additional
compensation," she says.
   An ATT spokesman said that if the stock price appreciates
that much, the company also would fare well. At the same rate
of growth, he says, the market value of the company would
grow to $200 billion from today's $50 billion level.
   Analysts expect this kind of compensation arrangement to
become more common as companies increasingly react to
criticism that executive pay isn't closely enough tied to
performance.
   ATT says that its plan was set in motion before pay
criticism heated up in Congress and in shareholder groups.
   Still, in describing the new program, the ATT spokesman
replied to critics of high executive pay, who also charge
that pay is too oriented toward the short term. "The basic
reason we did this is that our chairman is committed to
long-term growth for the corporation," the spokesman said.
"We have passed the time of shrinking our way to
profitability. He strongly believes that one way {to grow} is
to tie a large portion of potential compensation to the
long-term performance of the company. That's what these
options do."
   Still, some figure the gains might not be that far away.
Ms. Morgans estimates that at the median industry rate of
return, all of the new ATT options, including the most
expensive ones, begin having some value after 2.75 years.
   What's more, stock options themselves are coming under
increasing fire these days from critics who charge that
options reward stock market performance, not corporate
performance.
   Besides Mr. Allen, the special grants were given to at
least four other senior executives, including Randall L.
Tobias, vice chairman of the board, and three group
executives.