Marketing  Media:
   America Is Taking
   To Heart a Healthy
   Habit From France
   ---
   Red Wine Sales Soar in U.S.
   After TV Report Links
   It With Cardiac Fitness
   ----
   By Kathleen Deveny
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
That prescription was apparently enough for thousands of
Americans. In the four weeks after the television show was
broadcast on Nov. 17, grocery-store sales of cabernet
sauvignon wines soared 45%, according to Information
Resources Inc., a Chicago firm that tracks market share. At
Robert Mondavi Winery, cabernet sales jumped about 50%, and
the rush started the morning after the program.
   "It was the best news of the year," says Richard Leone,
one viewer who watched the "60 Minutes" report. "The freedom
from guilt is wonderful," says Mr. Leone, who is the chairman
of the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey.
   Retailers were quick to capitalize on that sentiment. MGM
Liquor Warehouse, a chain of 26 liquor stores in Minnesota,
promptly set up a video display of the television program and
attached heart-shaped symbols to bottles of red wine. Sales
of the stores' beaujolais nouveau wines were up 150% from the
previous year, says Michael G. Maglich, president of the
chain.
   The "60 Minutes" segment examined why the French -- whose
passion for pate and rich, creamy sauces leads them to
consume 30% more fat than Americans and whose life style
virtually excludes strenuous exercise -- suffer from far
fewer heart attacks than Americans.
   A French nutritionist forwarded one solution to the
so-called French paradox: The French consume more alcohol
than Americans, and more red wine in particular. Moderate
consumption of red wine, it seems, keeps platelets (the
smallest blood cells) from clinging to fatty deposits on the
artery walls, a condition that can lead to cardiac problems.
   The news was just what the doctor ordered for the
beleaguered wine industry. In addition to simply imbibing
less, Americans have grown increasingly skittish about the
purity of wine. Late last year, a study by the federal
government found that many wines contain potentially
dangerous levels of lead. Before that, the government began
requiring wine makers to list on their labels the presence of
sulfites, a preservative that causes serious health problems
for some people.
   Not surprisingly, alcohol foes were considerably less
enthusiastic. "There are just too many problems associated
with alcohol consumption," says Patricia Taylor, director of
the alcohol policies project for the Center for Science in
the Public Interest, a Washington advocacy group. She warns:
"People just shouldn't start drinking willynilly."