SEC Acts to Aid
   Small Business
   On Financing
   ---
   Move to Ease Credit Crunch
   Would Improve Access
   To Stock, Debt Markets
   ----
   By Kevin G. Salwen
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
If approved by the agency after public comment, the new
rules also are designed to entice mutual funds into buying
more small-business assets by allowing those funds to own
more illiquid investments.
   Moreover, in one of the more intriguing proposals, the
agency would allow small companies to "test the waters" of
the capital markets by putting forward a plan to raise
capital and seeing whether investors are interested. That
could let small companies gauge if they could find ready
markets for their securities without going through a more
detailed filing process.
   The agency also voted to send Congress a set of proposed
legislation designed to further entice small businesses to
use the capital markets, though those steps have little
chance of making it through Capitol Hill this year.
   The steps represent a push to ease the credit crunch that
has hit small businesses in the past few years. While the SEC
has allowed big companies to bring huge offerings to market
more cheaply in the past decade, small companies have
complained that they are increasingly having trouble raising
money to expand. That shortage has been exacerbated in recent
years, as banks have grown increasingly skittish about
lending to businesses without established track records.
   Moreover, regional securities firms, the traditional
underwriters of small companies, have suffered since the 1987
stock-market crash, leaving smaller companies even fewer
options. As a result, small businesses looking to expand
often are forced to ante up hefty legal and underwriting
fees, often $100,000 or more on a $1 million offering.
   "Traditional sources {of capital} do not appear to be
meeting the needs for finance among smaller firms," SEC
Chairman Richard Breeden said.
   Small-business groups and advisers cheered the package.
"This will be helpful in reducing the burden and cost of
compliance with securities regulations," said Richard
Phillips, a Washington securities lawyer who works with many
small companies. For example, he said that many companies
would like to go public but can't afford to put together
three years of audited financial statements. The SEC plan
would allow small companies to use a simpler process called
Regulation A for offerings of as much as $5 million, up from
the current $1.5 million.
   D.J. Gribbin, a lobbyist for the National Federation of
Independent Businesses, said he expects the simpler process
to be used by high-technology companies and inventors of
products who need capital "they can't raise from family and
friends."
   "If you want to take a small business public now, it's
insanely expensive," he said. "This will open up the simplest
of {financial} tiers to more businesses."
   Still, Commissioner Edward Fleischman, who voted in favor
of all but one of the proposals, criticized the agency for
not going far enough to cut the burdens on smaller companies.
The agency's proposals fall "far short of constituting any
real effort to balance costs and benefits," he said. "The
commission could do so much more toward those goals."
   Mr. Fleischman in turn offered 17 additional measures to
further ease the regulatory weight on small companies. That
irritated Chairman Breeden, who said he would like to have
considered the proposals but didn't want to give them the
commission's stamp of approval without further examination. A
furious debate stopped the panel's deliberations, and
commissioners walked off the panel to discuss options with
staffers. The meeting resumed after the commission decided to
allow Mr. Fleischman's proposals to be published for comment
separately from the SEC-endorsed package.