International:
   Miyazawa Calls U.S. Work Ethic Lacking
   ---
   Japan Leader's Comments
   Add to Wave of Criticism
   By Politicians in Tokyo
   ----
   By Christopher J. Chipello and Urban C. Lehner
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
The Bush administration attempted to soften the effects of
Mr. Miyazawa's unflattering comments. White House spokesman
Marlin Fitzwater said that Mr. Miyazawa's remarks are
"probably not helpful" at a time when "the protectionist
fires in this country are burning very hot." But he added
that the furor might succeed in "stirring the rages in all of
us that want to compete and show we're the best work force
there is." President Bush said Mr. Miyazawa later had "gone
out of his way to make clear he is not denouncing all
American workers." However, even Japanese who would privately
agree with the prime minister may well question his judgment
in speaking his mind at such a tense moment in U.S.-Japan
relations.
   Within hours of the remark, Mr. Miyazawa was backtracking.
The Foreign Ministry issued a statement suggesting the prime
minister's remarks were meant to stress the importance of
manufacturing to a nation's economic health. And on Tuesday,
Mr. Miyazawa said, "I did not intend to criticize U.S.
workers at all."
   Compared with previous criticisms, Mr. Miyazawa's was
relatively mild. Two weeks ago, Yoshio Sakurauchi, the
speaker of the lower house of the Diet, set off a storm of
indignation in the U.S. with his remarks about the alleged
laziness and illiteracy of some American workers.
   Among those who expressed shock at those remarks was Fujio
Cho, president of Toyota Manufacturing U.S.A. Inc. He said a
"lack of experience with American workers" led to "these
misguided impressions." The head of the Georgetown, Ky.,
Toyota unit, which employs American workers, said, "I have
been here five years now, and I have great respect for our
team members."
   Since Mr. Sakurauchi's remark, Buy American campaigns have
sprung up in the U.S. and Japanese companies have lost
contracts with local governments in California and New York.
And an attempt by a group led by a Japanese businessman to
buy the Seattle Mariners baseball team caused controversy in
the U.S.
   Mr. Miyazawa's low opinion for some things American isn't
entirely a surprise. In recent weeks, the prime minister has
pointed to such American problems as AIDS and homelessness,
and suggested sympathy or understanding on Japan's part.
American diplomats who dealt with Mr. Miyazawa as foreign
minister in the 1970s and finance minister in the 1980s had
predicted that Mr. Miyazawa as prime minister would say some
things U.S. officials wouldn't want to hear.
   Still, to say them so publicly and at such a sensitive
time is surprising coming from a politician of his
experience. Mr. Miyazawa is hardly unaware of the delicate
state of American views of Japan and the effect that Japanese
politicians can have. The prime minister was quick to try to
soothe ruffled American feelings after Mr. Sakurauchi's
remarks.
   The prime minister, in his comments, said a lack of a work
ethic in America was linked to the wide use of such financing
techniques as junk bonds and leveraged buy-outs during the
1980s. That environment prompted many U.S. college graduates
to seek high-paying Wall Street jobs and loosened the U.S.
commitment to "producing things and creating value," he said.
The heavy dependence on borrowed money to finance corporate
buy-outs also has led to more bankruptcies, as companies
couldn't meet their debt payments, he said. Mr. Miyazawa
noted that similar forces were at work in Japan's "bubble
economy" of the 1980s, resulting in soaring land and stock
prices; the recent collapse of that speculative bubble "gave
the whole nation a lesson," he said.
   The Foreign Ministry statement said the prime minister was
recognizing "the excesses of Japan's bubble economy {and} the
importance of producing things and creating value by the
sweat of our brow in our approach to work. The phrase `work
ethic' was used to explain such a philosophy of work, and the
prime minister regrets any misunderstanding which may have
been caused. The prime minister has no intention whatsoever
of criticizing American workers."
   Mr. Miyazawa's latest comments were prompted by a rambling
critique of the U.S. economy by Kabun Muto, a former minister
of international trade and industry and a fellow member of
the ruling Liberal Democratic Party.
   Mr. Muto said in the budget committee session, "It is
important for the U.S. economy to become once again the
world's No. 1 competitive economic power because of its vast
resources, people and land. But since the Vietnam War,
America has deteriorated due to drug use and other such
problems." Mr. Muto said it was important for Japan to strive
to see that the U.S. recognizes such issues, and asked Mr.
Miyazawa to present his view of the matter.
   Before and during President Bush's visit to Tokyo in early
January, Mr. Miyazawa on several occasions referred to U.S.
social and economic problems as a rationale for his
government's efforts to help increase imports of U.S.
industrial goods. Mr. Miyazawa stressed then that he believes
the U.S. is a great nation that will surmount these problems,
but said Japan in the meantime "will have to understand the
position of the U.S." in dealing with trade issues.
   (See related letter: "Letters to the Editor: A `Master
Race' Bears Watching" -- WSJ March 11, 1992)
   920204-0007