Politics  Policy
   ---
   Campaign '92 -- A View From Those Inside:
   Kerrey Fund-Raiser Burkett Is Upbeat
   But He Knows Money Follows a Winner
   ----
   By Jill Abramson
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
LOS ANGELES -- The lifeline of Bob Kerrey's presidential
campaign isn't in Washington or Nebraska. It's a telephone in
Robert Burkett's office here.
   Mr. Burkett, a 46-year-old lawyer turned movie-industry
executive, is the Nebraska senator's chief money man, the
leader of an army he affectionately calls "Kerrey's cash
commandos." He belongs to an exclusive club of top Democratic
fund-raisers, and since Labor Day has spent night and day
prospecting in a golden Rolodex built up through years of
work in liberal Hollywood.
   Mr. Burkett has all the qualifications for a big-time
fund-raiser: a thick skin toughened by raising money for the
Democratic National Committee's large-donor program; an
almost bottomless capacity for talking on the phone; and a
lot of resources behind him -- not his own, but those of his
boss, movie producer Frederick (Ted) Field, an heir to the
Marshall Field department-store fortune.
   Better than anyone else, Mr. Burkett knows that the rules
of campaign fundraising are brutally simple: Money follows a
winner. That is why the stakes are almost as high for him in
today's South Dakota primary as they are for his candidate.
If Mr. Kerrey wins the state, Mr. Burkett will immediately
begin dialing for fresh campaign dollars to refill Mr.
Kerrey's badly depleted campaign coffers. But a disappointing
showing will almost certainly mean that money will stop
flowing through the pipeline Mr. Burkett has so carefully
constructed these past months.
   "For us, South Dakota is a mini-New Hampshire," Mr.
Burkett says from his Westwood office at Interscope Group,
Mr. Field's film-production company, where he is vice
president. A victory, he says, means "we'll have the ability
to raise Super Tuesday money."
   Money has been very tight for Mr. Kerrey these days, so
tight that the candidate himself has borrowed funds and is
making many of the key fund-raising calls in between campaign
stops in South Dakota and Colorado. Mr. Burkett is
supplementing those calls with entreaties of his own,
following the same grueling routine he has had since the
fall.
   His day begins when he rises at 5 a.m.; by 5:30 he is
making calls from his home here to potential donors on the
East Coast. He doesn't break until noon, when he gets away
from the pressures of money-raising to go running. Then he
drives to his office, where two separate campaign-telephone
lines converge on a large desk adorned with a bust of Robert
F. Kennedy.
   During an interview in his office, one of several
conducted over the course of the campaign, Mr. Burkett
reflects on what keeps him going. Mainly, he says, he is
motivated by deep affection for Mr. Kerrey, whom he met
several years ago. "He's a true friend," says Mr. Burkett.
"It's unusual to get to know a politician without his game
face on."
   Early on, Mr. Burkett's loyalities to the Kerrey campaign
were challenged by illness. Soon after he had signed on as
finance chairman, he was hospitalized with a serious virus
(Mr. Burkett thought he was having a heart attack). By the
time his wife allowed him to return to the telephones, Mr.
Kerrey was already stumbling in New Hampshire.
   Unlike Democratic rival Bill Clinton, whose association
with the well-funded Democratic Leadership Council gave him a
built-in network of political contributors, "Bob did not have
a natural, national fundraising base," Mr. Burkett says. So
Mr. Burkett had to build one from scratch.
   He started with Mr. Kerrey's core group of wealthy
Nebraskan supporters. Denny Jorgensen, Mr. Kerrey's Nebraska
finance chairman, pledged to raise between $250,000 and $1
million by Thanksgiving. (The Nebraskans, Mr. Burkett says,
are the real heroes of Kerrey's cash commandos.) Another
Democratic heavy hitter, Florida businessman Hugh Westbrook,
signed on as the campaign's treasurer at about the same time
Mr. Burkett came on board. A number of other wellknown
Democratic fund-raisers, including Elizabeth Bagley of
Washington and Walter Shorenstein of San Francisco, also
joined Mr. Burkett's finance committee.
   Mr. Burkett also won endorsements for Mr. Kerrey from
several major figures from the entertainment industry. An
early infusion of money came from a posh, star-studded
reception at the home of Barry Diller, who until yesterday
was the chairman of the Fox Inc. unit of News Corp. But there
were disappointments too, especially the failure to win the
help of wealthy investor Warren Buffett, a Nebraskan and past
Kerrey supporter.
   Winning over a single big giver could take weeks. In the
fall, Mr. Burkett began working on Leonard Riggio, chairman
of B. Dalton Bookseller Inc. He arranged for Mr. Riggio to
meet with Mr. Kerrey, then continued calling Mr. Riggio until
he agreed to come on board the finance committee; Mr. Riggio
has since raised hundreds of thousands of dollars for Mr.
Kerrey in New York.
   In January, Mr. Burkett was trying hard to secure the
support of Marvin Rosen, a Florida lawyer whom Mr. Burkett
knew well through other Democratic fundraising efforts. "It
was a coup," says Mr. Burkett, when Mr. Rosen finally said
yes six weeks ago after traveling with Mr. Kerrey.
   Mr. Burkett's admirers and his rival fund-raisers say it
is testimony to his clout in Democratic fund-raising circles
that he has been able to raise almost $1 million for the
Kerrey campaign in the past seven weeks. He and the 20-odd
members of the Kerrey finance team continued to pull in
contributions even as their candidate was being dismissed by
the media and failing to engage the imagination of voters.
"The amazing thing is that Bob Burkett has continued raising
so much money," says Phil Angelides, the California
Democratic Party chairman who raised millions for Michael
Dukakis in 1988.
   Mr. Burkett traveled to New Hampshire for the primary and
summoned his finance troops to the state for an
organizational dinner on primary night. He flew with the
candidate the next day to South Dakota to help him make some
important money calls. He was, he says, pleasantly surprised
when almost everyone Mr. Kerrey called agreed to raise more
money. "The loyalty of our people is amazing," gushes Mr.
Burkett. "It was really magnificent."
   Mr. Burkett tries to minimize his time away from the
phones. He is so reluctant to lose precious phone time that
he skipped a cabaret fund-raising party he had planned for
Mr. Kerrey at New York's Regency Hotel because he preferred
to stay in his room making more fund-raising calls.
   If Mr. Kerrey drops out of the presidential contest, Mr.
Burkett will still have a big role in the election. While
serving as the Kerrey finance director, he is also in charge
of the Democratic National Committee's large-donor program.
(Last year, he helped organize a gathering of major donors at
the Middleburg, Va., estate of party doyenne Pamela
Harriman.) Mr. Burkett is now directing a fund-raising
program aimed at increasing the number of individual donors
willing to give the party $200,000 each.
   In the mid-1980s, Mr. Burkett first drew attention from
national political circles as producer Norman Lear's
political eyes and ears. From Mr. Lear's office, Mr. Burkett
went to his current position with Mr. Field, producer of such
screen hits as "Three Men and a Baby" and the nanny thriller,
"The Hand that Rocks the Cradle."
   At Interscope, Mr. Field's production company, Mr. Burkett
devotes himself to his boss's passions: movies, chess and
Democratic politics. (He organized the World Chess
Championship program for Mr. Field in 1990 and hopes to write
a book about the experience.) "It's a unique situation," says
Democratic consultant Anthony Podesta about the relationship
between Mr. Burkett and Mr. Field. "Because Ted is so
reclusive, Bob's become a big force in his own right. Even
though he doesn't have his own money, he's used Ted's very
deep pockets and long leash to build his own fund-raising
base." In 1987, Mr. Burkett helped raise more than $400,000
for Sen. Joseph Biden's presidential campaign at a party at
Mr. Field's home.
   Even if Mr. Kerrey loses tonight, Mr. Burkett says he will
continue raising money no matter what. "I'm always upbeat,"
he says. "I see opportunity in everything."