Letters to the Editor:
   Risk-Sharing Can End
   Problem of Uninsured
As for "community rating," of course it "caus{es}
healthier people to be overcharged and sicker people to be
undercharged"; risk-spreading is the fundamental precept of
insurance, and people who in one year subsidize others end up
being subsidized themselves in the next. Community rating
allows the lowest possible premiums for the greatest possible
number of people, so long as community pools contain adequate
numbers of good-risk customers.
   Community rating cannot succeed, however, if, as is the
case in New York, some insurers (the not-for-profit ones)
community-rate and some (the commercials) do not.
Community-rated pools are stripped of their good-risk
customers by the predatory practices of commercial insurers
that blacklist, redline and use strict medical underwriting
to avoid all poor risks in their own pools and skim the best
risks from the pools of insurers that have open enrollment
and employ community rating. A return to the wide
risk-sharing that worked so well for many years --
reinstituting open enrollment and community rating for all
insurers operating in the small-group and individual markets
-- is the only way the crisis of the uninsured can be solved.
   Albert A. Cardone
   Chairman and CEO
   Empire Blue Cross Blue Shield
   New York
   ---
   Mr. Goodman may be able to find instances where
unnecessary state regulations have increased the cost of
health insurance. But to suggest that required coverage of
preventive health services such as mammography and well-baby
and prenatal care is not cost-effective makes no sense.
Perhaps he has never visited an intensive-care children's
unit of a hospital and seen the scores of premature babies
hooked up to all that life-sustaining machinery. Wouldn't it
be far cheaper to give the expectant mother the prenatal care
she needs? And perhaps he hasn't seen the study by the
National Cancer Institute that found that annual mammograms
could reduce breast-cancer deaths for women aged 50 and older
by nearly one-third.
   Insurance companies have long had the reputation of being
penny-wise and pound-foolish. Now, thanks to enlightened
insurance executives in some cases and needed regulation in
others, the industry has begun paying for keeping people
healthy rather than just treating them when they are sick.
And in the long run, common sense should tell us that the
former will be less expensive than the latter.
   Steven Mehlman
   Crofton, Md.