LEISURE  ARTS -- On Sports:
   Bills on a Stampede Toward Minneapolis
   ----
   By Frederick C. Klein
The Bills, you'll recall, were a Super Bowl visitor last
year. They lost to the New York Giants, 20-19, when a field
goal try by their Scott Norwood went awry. That was in toasty
Tampa, Fla., the sort of tropical venue usually selected for
those affairs. But the boys from Nickel City will be glad to
swap a chance at a tan for a trophy this time around. "Yeah,
we know where the game is; we've been pointing for it all
season," said Cornelius Bennett, a Buffalo linebacker. "We
can go someplace warm after we win." To be sure, that will
take some doing in a saga that resumes with the AFC final
here Sunday. The Bills' foe will be Denver, which gave the
Houston Oilers Broncoitis with an 87-yard, no-timeouts-left
drive to set up a last-play field goal and 26-24 victory.
Elway, the Denver quarterback, engineers such miracles
routinely, a fact that's well known to the Bills. "The
difference between Elway and DeBerg and Vlasic {the Chief
QBs} is like night and day," said Leon Seals, an undiplomatic
but accurate Buffalo defensive lineman.
   But as they've amply displayed all season, the Bills have
quite a few assets of their own, including a state-of-the-art
offense that was No. 1 in yards and No. 2 in points over the
regular campaign. They run and shoot from the spread out,
multireceiver formation of the same name, and do it quick,
sans huddles. In the process, they've debunked the curious
but widespread notion that owning the ball over long periods
(the stat is called "time of possession") is somehow
important in the great scheme of things.
   Marv Levy, the sometime scholar who coaches this crew (he
holds a master's degree in English history from the U. of
Chicago), says the magic isn't in how you line up but in what
you do thereafter, and the Bills are solvent there, too. In
QB Kelly, they have a strong-armed type who is now, in his
sixth NFL (and eighth pro) season, strong-minded as well,
able to change plays nimbly at the line of scrimmage. In
sure-footed Thurman Thomas, they have the league's best
all-purpose back, with the stats to prove it. And in the
veterans Lofton, Andre Reed and Don Beebe, they have swift
receivers who are difficult to pass, as in exceed. "It's hard
to cover any of us one-on-one, and, on most plays, somebody
has to do that," noted Reed, who caught passes worth 1,113
yards this term.
   Jayice Pearson, a Kansas City cornerback, found himself
trying to guard Reed one-on-one twice in the first half
Sunday, and both times wound up watching Reed's No. 83
recede. The first touchdown pass Reed caught covered 25
yards, the second 53, and they put the Chiefs in permanent
arrears.
   "We caught them in the wrong coverage at the wrong time,"
grinned Reed. That happened a lot on a day in which Kelly
completed 23 of 35 passes for 273 yards, and Thomas's rushing
yardage totaled a round 100.
   The other team gets the ball once in awhile too, and the
last time these two teams met, in Kansas City on Oct. 7, the
Chiefs did very well with it. They have the NFL's most
predictable offense, preferring to run straight ahead under
most circumstances, but sometimes it works, and it did for
247 yards rushing in a 33-6 Chief win. And, in fact, the
Bills' defense has been suspect generally, ranking 27th among
the league's 28 clubs.
   But injuries -- especially one to Bruce Smith, their
massive defensive lineman -- played a role in that showing,
and Smith was back Sunday, albeit with continuing difficulty
from a sore knee. Whatever, KC could run for just 77 yards
this time, and the Bills intercepted four passes thrown by
young QB Mark Vlasic, who replaced the veteran Steve DeBerg
after the latter sprained his thumb on the helmet of a Bill
lineman. The Chiefs could not advance into Buffalo territory
until they did so via an intercepted pass late in period
three, and trailed by 30, 37-7, at one point.
   The early season loss to the Chiefs was one of just three
inflicted upon the Bills this season (they have won 14), but
Coach Levy said afterward that advancement, not revenge, was
their prime motivation on Sunday. He adjudged their overall
performance to be their best of the season, and said he
believed it stemmed from the "heightened degree of perception
and awareness" that playoff football inspires.
   If he talks like that to the Bills, and they understand
it, there's no telling how far they can go. Certainly as far
as Minneapolis.
   ---
   Correction
                                                                                                       

   Frederick C. Klein's Jan. 7 On Sports column, "Bills on a
Stampede Toward Minneapolis," contained an erroneous
reference to Buffalo Bills Coach Marv Levy's academic
background. He holds a master's degree in English history
from Harvard University, not the University of Chicago.
   (WSJ Jan. 17, 1992)
   920107-0007