Wells Fargo Denied
   Review of Finding
   In Credit Card Case
   ----
   By Stephen Kreider Yoder
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The court's decision concerns a class-action suit, filed
in 1986 in San Francisco, that challenged the Wells Fargo 
Co. unit's practice of levying a $10 fee on customers who
exceeded their credit-card limits and a $3 to $5 fee on
customers who paid bills late. The suit, in effect, held that
the bank's charges were far more than the damages the bank
incurred in collecting from customers.
   A state court jury trying the case in 1989 ruled that
Wells Fargo had violated California laws that require banks
to limit such charges to their costs. An appeals court upheld
the ruling in December 1991.
   With the Supreme Court's refusal to grant Wells Fargo's
petition to review the judgment, the bank must now pay the
$5.2 million, plus interest, to the class of customers who
had Visa or MasterCard accounts with the bank from July 1982
to May 1987. Wells Fargo must also pay about $3.8 million to
a similar class of card holders of Crocker National Bank,
which the bank acquired in 1985, and pay about $2.5 million
in lawyers' fees and costs.
   Wells Fargo executive vice president Michael Sczuka said
the bank would comply with the ruling, but argued that the
courts that heard the case didn't show a basic understanding
of accounting principles. Moreover, Mr. Sczuka said, the high
court failed to give any guidance as to what costs a
credit-card issuer can properly figure into late charges or
other fees. "That leaves absolutely no credit card issuer
with any clarity" as to how to calculate fees without getting
sued, he said.
   James Sturdevant, who represented card holders in the
case, countered that the standards for determining damages
that a bank incurs in collecting "are very clear. They've
been repeatedly set forth by the California Supreme Court and
other courts."
   About 10 similar cases are pending in California courts
against card issuers, including a case against First
Interstate Bank scheduled to go to court in April, and suits
filed against a number of out-of-state card issuers doing
business in California. Wells Fargo said it faces additional
suits, one relating to the credit-card portfolio it acquired
from Imperial Savings  Loan of San Diego in 1989 and another
on behalf of its card holders since May 1987.
   Anita Boomstein, a lawyer that specializes in credit card
law for New York's Hughes Hubbard  Reed, said the judgment
against Wells Fargo is "unique to California statutes and
won't affect credit card issuers in other states."