New York Car Dealers Hope to Put
   Some Drive Into `Too Lazy' Workers
   ----
   By Bradley A. Stertz
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The campaign by the 100 New York, New Jersey and
Connecticut Pontiac dealers is one of the most direct
attempts yet to fan heated words in the U.S.-Japan trade
debate into consumer reaction.
   "We're trying to throw cold water in peoples' faces," says
Donny Deutsch, executive vice president and creative director
of Deutsch Advertising, the New York agency that developed
the campaign. "With all of the false and racist statements
coming out of Japan, it's time for people to wake up and see
that America builds quality products."
   The commercial, which was cleared by General Motors
Corp.'s Pontiac division, states: "A leading Japanese
politician described American workers as follows: `A work
force too lazy to compete with Japan . . . America is
becoming Japan's subcontractor and has no one to blame but
themselves . . . the source of the problem is the inferior
quality of U.S. labor . . . 30% can't even read.'"
   As might be expected, the ads don't mention that about 40%
of the Japanese cars sold in the U.S. come from U.S.
factories. Instead, the spots conclude by saying: "Well
excuse us, but the new Pontiac Grand Am has better fuel
efficiency, a larger engine and costs thousands less than
either Honda Accord or Toyota Camry. . . . Maybe they {the
Japanese} need some reading lessons."
   Slamming Japan in a controversial manner is nothing new
for the dealers or for Deutsch Advertising. Pontiac dealer
ads created by the agency in 1989 railed about Japanese
investors buying America shortly after Mitsubishi Estate Co.
bought a controlling stake in New York's Rockefeller Center.
   Dealer ads are mostly independent from those that the auto
makers themselves run. A Pontiac spokesman said the only
control the company has over dealer ads is to make sure they
don't make false claims about the cars.
   Detroit's Big Three have typically shied away from
incendiary ads about their competitors. But a General Motors
commercial aired during Sunday's Super Bowl indirectly
referred to Japanese remarks disparaging American workers.
And Pontiac, seeking to tap the surge in "buy American"
sentiment in a more traditional manner, will soon launch
advertising that compares Pontiac models with Japanese cars.
   The message of Pontiac's ads: Buyers who want antilock
brakes will pay less on a Grand Am than on a Honda Accord or
a Toyota Camry.
   Mr. Deutsch insists that Americans need strong messages to
take heed. "I think that when you're in the position of
seeing market share slipping away, you have to do some
aggressive things," he says. "If you just tell Americans that
American cars are better, they emotionally won't buy into it.
You need to do something that will jolt their feelings."