Politics  Policy:
   Study Says Democratic Health-Care Plan
   Would Boost Annual Costs by $66 Billion
   ----
   By Albert R. Karr
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Under a "pay-or-play" system, employers would be required
to give workers a minimum level of health insurance, or pay a
tax equal to roughly 7% of payroll into a public fund that
would cover uninsured employees. In addition, the government
would augment coverage for the working poor, provide coverage
for nonworkers and make up a likely gap between employer
contributions and the health-care costs of covered workers.
An estimated 36 million people currently lack health
insurance; two-thirds of those are workers and their
families.
   The Democrats' idea has been under attack by the
administration, which itself has been the target of criticism
for failing to halt the steep rise in health costs and to
address other health care problems.
   But Labor Secretary Lynn Martin denied any political
motive for issuing the Urban Institute study. "I think it's
an important political issue, but so what?" she said. "It's
an important personal issue." She said the study was released
"almost with some regret," and asserted that if it had shown
that workers would benefit from "pay-or-play," the department
would have endorsed the idea.
   President Bush plans to unveil his own health-care
proposals around the time of his State of the Union message
later this month. Officials are drawing up a plan that would
include tax credits to help low-income people buy health
insurance, incentives for people to enroll in health
maintenance organizations, provisions forbidding insurance
companies to deny coverage to people with medical conditions,
and expansion of the federally financed network of community
health centers. Officials also are considering an idea to tax
some of the employer-provided health benefits of wealthy
Americans.
   The Urban Institute study suggests the Democrats'
"pay-or-play" plan would prompt many employers to scrap
existing health insurance for their employees. It says those
employers would choose to pay the proposed payroll tax into
the public fund, since doing so would be cheaper than
continuing their own health coverage.
   Nearly 52 million people now covered by employer-sponsored
plans "would be forced, without their choice, into the
government plan," said Mrs. Martin. She said the
"pay-or-play" plan also would cost taxpayers an additional
$36 billion a year for health care, while employers would
have to pay another $30 billion annually to cover workers who
are currently uninsured or underinsured.
   Health costs of small employers would climb 71%, and those
for larger firms would rise 13%, forcing many cuts in other
benefits, halting wage increases or eliminating jobs,
"harming the very people we want to help," Mrs. Martin said.
   Fully 112 million people would wind up being covered by
the public plan, which would be four times as large as
Medicare, "with all the red tape, bureaucracy, uncertainty
and delay of large government bureaucracies," Mrs. Martin
said.
   Sen. Jay Rockefeller (D., W.Va.), a "pay-or-play"
advocate, disputed that analysis. To suggest that a
"pay-or-play" plan would shift families from private to
public coverage "distorts and ignores the fact that under our
current health system families are being shifted from private
coverage to no coverage," as employer-paid health coverge
continues to shrink, he said.
   According to Sen. Rockefeller, his plan would reduce
health costs for many firms that now effectively pick up the
tab for businesses that don't provide coverage. It also has
provisions that would contain rising doctor and hospital
costs. Meanwhile, a bill offered by Senate Republicans that
relies on tax credits and would cost $150 billion over five
years doesn't have any cost containment provisions and
wouldn't assure coverage for everyone, he said.
   Sen. Rockefeller argued that Mrs. Martin's remarks are
"amazingly similar to Republican outcries" that Medicare,
which was created in 1965, would mean "socialized medicine."