International:
   Former Head of the Secret Police
   In East Germany Goes on Trial
   ---
   Erich Mielke, 84, Is Charged
   Only With Two Murders
   That Date From 1931
   ----
   By Frederick Kempe
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
In a bizarre twist, the court wasn't prosecuting the
84-year-old Mr. Mielke -- once the second most powerful man
in East Germany, behind former party boss Erich Honecker --
for crimes committed under communism. Instead, he was charged
with the murder of two policemen in 1931, for which he was
convicted in absentia by Nazi courts three years later. Mr.
Mielke, a radical left-wing worker at the time, already had
fled to Moscow.
   Present-day prosecutors have been unable to find a law
under which to easily convict Mr. Mielke or other former
officials of East Germany. They are nevertheless assembling
evidence for more charges against Mr. Mielke that might
involve support for murders committed by Red Army Faction
terrorists and complicity in the deaths of more than 200
people killed while trying to flee East Germany. But one
Berlin justice official said Mr. Mielke would probably be
dead of old age before any case could be assembled.
   So prosecutors' only hope for now is evidence from the
1934 trial, which Mr. Mielke's lawyers argue didn't offer
their client a fair trial because it was a product of the
Nazi justice system. And with Mr. Honecker, who is also ill,
holed up in the Chilean Embassy in Moscow, Mr. Mielke may be
the most senior East German official ever to be tried.
   The Mielke case, no matter how it turns out, has reminded
Germans of how difficult and awkward it is to prosecute
alleged crimes committed under Communist rule in East
Germany. It has also left eastern Germans confused about a
Western legal system they once yearned to adopt. German law
has been sufficient to prosecute border guards who shot
would-be escapees, but the courts haven't found an effective
way to bring to justice those who issued the shoot-to-kill
orders.
   While western Germans regard such cases with curiosity and
banner headlines, eastern Germans complain that their western
compatriots don't appreciate their sensitivities. "For
eastern Germans, Mielke for years was the physical
incarnation of evil," said a U.S. diplomat who served for
years in East Germany. "But for western Germans, this is
theater. Unification for the west meant getting an eastern
thorn out of their sides, but for the east it means having to
deal with 40 years of history."
   As theater, the trial's beginning was grisly. The first
session lasted only an hour and a half because of Mr.
Mielke's poor health. The former secret police chief only
nodded and mumbled "Ja" when asked to confirm that he was
Erich Mielke. He didn't answer when asked for his birth date.
"I feel terrible," he said to a doctor who attended him twice
during the trial when he said he couldn't "stand it any
longer."
   Many former East Germans had long sought revenge against
Mr. Mielke. Yet even they were baffled that Mr. Mielke was
facing charges stemming from his years as a young
revolutionary.
   "This is crazy, and it's somewhat insulting to people,"
said Beate Herbig, a 33-year-old Hamburg surgeon who lived in
East Germany until 1984. "Friends of mine who sat in prison
because of Mielke's laws feel that they just aren't being
taken seriously. It doesn't address what they consider his
injustices."
   Eastern Germans, in fact, seem confused and overwhelmed by
a flurry of cases involving allegations of crimes committed
under Communist rule. Among other recent events:
   -- A former Dresden mayor last month was convicted of
fixing election results, which was a prosecutable offense
even under East German law.
   -- A Dresden interior minister is suing a doctor who
drugged him under orders from state security agents. No
charges have been brought against higher officials who gave
the orders.
   -- A popular soccer player was named as an informant for
the East German security services, the Stasi, and three
eastern German athletes on the unified German Olympic luge
and bobsled teams confessed complicity in Stasi activities.
   -- Several major politicians, including some who won by
large pluralities, have been forced to resign after
information leaked that they had been Stasi informants.
   -- After a five-month trial, a panel of German judges
convicted two former East German border guards of shooting a
fleeing compatriot in early 1989, just months before the fall
of the Berlin Wall. Newspapers criticized the ruling for
reaching too far down the chain of command.
   "I think the Mielke trial shows that you can't come to
terms with the East German history in the courts," said
Manfred Goertemaker, a professor of contemporary history at
Berlin's Free University who is completing a book on East
Germany's state security apparatus. "It is very difficult to
bring before the courts what was done by the heads of
governments."
   He also said the understaffed courts are too slow to meet
society's need to come to terms with the past. Germany
instead must rely more on public discussion, newspaper
reports and, ultimately, the creation of a tribunal to study
the East German system and determine why it was criminal, he
said.
   Meanwhile, the decision to release Stasi files to the
millions of eastern Germans on whom they were kept has turned
eastern Germans against one another. But Dr. Goertemaker
argues that the process is necessary to convince easterners
that their system itself was corrupt and doomed and "that it
wasn't just the deutschemark that rolled over them."
   Dr. Herbig, the Hamburg doctor, said she argued with her
parents over the wisdom of looking at her files. "For me, it
was only part of my life, and so it isn't so dramatic what I
find out," she said. "But my parents' generation wants to
keep the door to the forbidden room closed; they don't want
to be confronted with a terrible truth they might not be able
to live with later. But I am much too curious. I want to know
whether our paranoia was worse than reality or whether
reality was worse than our paranoia."