Merrill Lynch Junk-Bond Desk Is Target
   Of Federal Inquiry Into Personal Trades
   ----
   By William Power and Laurie P. Cohen
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
While Merrill said it doesn't suspect Mr. Barefoot himself
of improper trading, the executive's forced retirement may be
part of an effort by Merrill to placate both the U.S.
Attorney's office in Manhattan and the Securities and
Exchange Commission. Both are investigating Merrill's
high-yield, or junk, desk with the cooperation of lawyers for
two previously-fired junk traders, Edward Scherer and Richard
Kursman, according to people familiar with the case. The
government is seeking to determine whether Merrill traders
have improperly traded for themselves in accounts held
outside of Merrill.
   The investigation was prompted by Merrill's public
disclosure last year that Messrs. Scherer and Kursman had
"mishandled" a customer's account by allegedly taking a trade
of Interco Inc. junk bonds from the customer's account and
putting it into their own account. The traders were fired in
September.
   However, government officials believe that the infractions
aren't limited just to those two individuals. This is based
on the information provided by the two traders to government
lawyers, according to people familiar with the case. Mr.
Scherer's attorney, William Schwartz, couldn't be reached for
comment Friday, and Jerry D. Bernstein, the attorney
representing Mr. Kursman, declined to comment.
   Individuals familiar with the investigations say that
neither the SEC nor the U.S. Attorney has taken testimony
from other Merrill employees. The investigation "is still in
the early stages," says one lawyer familiar with the case.
   Merrill officials said on Friday that the junk desk's
problem is limited to the two dismissed traders, and that the
firm doesn't expect to be charged with wrongdoing itself. "We
found two bad apples, and as soon as we found them we took
them out of the barrel," said Merrill's global
investment-banking chief, Barry S. Friedberg.
   A Merrill spokesman added that in checking other traders'
personal investing, Merrill's lawyers found "no overt
attempts to skirt the rules. No one else has been
terminated."
   Mr. Friedberg said Mr. Barefoot's retirement is part of a
previously planned organizational shift that would have made
Mr. Barefoot's position unnecessary. He added that Mr.
Barefoot decided to leave as long ago as late November. Mr.
Barefoot couldn't be reached for comment.
   Lawyers say Merrill has given the government every trading
record it is aware of in connection with the case, as well as
records of its junk bond employees' accounts with the firm.
They say Merrill believes that none of these records
indicates wrongdoing by anyone other than Messrs. Scherer and
Kursman. Merrill said on Friday that based upon its
investigation, the two traders may have had personal trading
accounts outside of Merrill in violation of company policy
and securities-industry rules.
   Merrill said its review determined that other employees in
the junk area had also acquired Interco securities, but in
approved transactions. But the firm said the existence of the
holdings, coupled with an unexpected rise last July in the
price of Interco bonds, had created an "appearance of
impropriety." Thus, Merrill said, it has reimbursed nine
institutional clients who had bought Interco bonds last year.
Merrill wouldn't identify the institutions.
   Merrill named as the new head of junk trading Seth H.
Waugh, 33, who is already in charge of investment-grade bond
trading. Appointed head of junk sales is Edward E. Sheridan,
37, who is already in charge of global fixed-income sales.
Both report to Mr. Friedberg.