McDonnell-Taiwan Aerospace Accord
   May Be Threatened by Taipei Criticism
   ----
   By Jeremy Mark and Rick Wartzman
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
McDonnell Douglas executives have countered that any
investment by Taiwan Aerospace -- no matter who its backers
-- will be subject to free-market forces. "This is an
economic investment, subject to the disciplines of the
market," Chairman John McDonnell maintained in November, when
the St. Louis aerospace concern and Taiwan Aerospace signed a
memorandum of understanding. Even if there is substantial
money provided by the Taipei government, he said, "they're
expecting a good return on their investment."
   But that very notion of investment is alarming some in the
Taiwan legislature, who argue that the government must
proceed cautiously with its spending plans. Taiwan
Aerospace's direct investment in McDonnell Douglas could
total as much as $2 billion, and may be only the first step
in a huge investment program that could exceed $5 billion.
   Some Taiwan legislators are also raising questions about
the feasibility of trying to build the vast infrastructure
needed for a commercial-aircraft industry in a country where
none now exists.
   Separately, McDonnell Douglas said yesterday that it won't
make the Jan. 31 timetable for reaching a definitive
agreement. Many observers had felt that deadline was too
ambitious. Officials in Taiwan suggested that their
evaluation team's report could be completed in March.
   With the possibility of a major government expenditure
looming, ruling-party and opposition legislators in Taiwan
are noisily staking a claim to budget decisions. In
displaying unprecedented assertiveness and demanding a
decision-making role, they could hold the power to delay or
even scuttle a transaction that requires government spending.
   Taiwan Aerospace's top executives have been out of the
country since late December and haven't responded to requests
for interviews. But the company's president, Denny Ko, has
stated on several occasions that the acquisition of the stake
in McDonnell Douglas isn't assured.
   Other camps in the U.S. are also stepping up their
opposition to the deal. Earlier this week, labor leaders in
California, worried about jobs lost to factories abroad,
formed a committee with the stated goal of delaying
government approval of the transaction. While U.S. regulators
aren't expected to block the deal, Rep. Barbara Boxer (D.,
Calif.) said yesterday that she would meet with union
representatives to explore the jobs issue.
   For their part, McDonnell Douglas officials expressed hope
their talks with Taiwan Aerospace will proceed
satisfactorily. But if the deal falls through, there are
other potential equity partners in the wings. "We feel Taiwan
could present the ideal partner," said Herbert Lanese,
McDonnell Douglas's chief financial officer. "However, it's
not the only game in town."
   Under the terms of their tentative agreement, McDonnell
Douglas and Taiwan Aerospace are seeking to set up a
joint-venture company that would manufacture a new passenger
jet, the MD-12, with substantial portions of the plane slated
to be produced in Taiwan. Once this arrangement is in place,
McDonnell Douglas hopes for a broader Asian-backed consortium
by attracting other investors.