CCC Franchising
   To Buy Primedex
   For $45 Million
   ----
   By Lourdes Lee Valeriano
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
CCC has about 24.3 million shares outstanding, 60% of
which are owned by Mr. Brennan, the former owner of First
Jersey Securities Inc. whose battles with the Securities and
Exchange Commission were well publicized. Despite his large
stake in CCC, Mr. Brennan, now chairman and chief executive
officer of International Thoroughbred Breeders Inc., East
Windsor, N.J., is neither an officer nor a director of the
company.
   In over-the-counter trading yesterday, CCC stock was
quoted at $8.125 bid, up 50 cents.
   First Jersey Securities specialized in OTC issues. In
1984, the firm agreed to settle SEC charges alleging stock
fraud, while neither admitting nor denying the charges.
Subsequently a number of First Jersey managers were indicted,
with two of the indictments resulting in acquittals, one
reversed conviction and a guilty plea to one misdemeanor
count. Cases in which the U.S. attorney in Newark, N.J.,
alleged money-laundering against three officials and two
former brokers have ended so far in three guilty pleas and
one conviction. Mr. Brennan has never been accused of
wrongdoing.
   After considerable bad publicity, Mr. Brennan sold First
Jersey's 33 branches in 1987. Among Mr. Brennan's more recent
investments is a 9.9% stake in First State Financial Services
Inc., parent of First DeWitt Savings  Loan Association in
West Caldwell, N.J.
   A spokesman for CCC Franchising said the company already
has arranged financing for the cash portion of the
acquisition, which is slated to be completed Jan. 31. But he
declined to give details. He also said that "no
determination" has been made on whether any of the shares to
be used for the purchase will come from Mr. Brennan's stake.
   CCC's balance sheet as of July 1991 showed that it had
total assets of $11.6 million, including about $6 million in
cash and $1.7 million in marketable securities. Its
liabilities were listed at $60,000.
   In the third quarter ended July 31, the company posted a
net loss of $265,000 and no revenue from operations. The
company hasn't yet reported earnings for the year ended Oct.
31, but in the three previous fiscal years, CCC reported
profits of $299,000, $323,000 and $242,000, respectively, on
zero revenue from operations. It said that assuming the
completion of the Primedex purchase, CCC pro forma gross
revenue for the year ended Oct. 31 would be $40 million and
its pro forma pretax profit $10 million. It said Primedex's
assets stood at $47 million at the end of November and its
liabilities at $6 million.
   CCC, which was formed in 1985, went public in 1986 and
graduated from "pink slip" OTC trading last year, owns 51% of
Viromedics Inc., a Hauppauge, N.Y., company that's trying to
develop a treatment for AIDS, and about 90% of a Moorhead,
Minn., concern, Immunotherapeutics Inc., which is engaged in
the development of cancer treatments and other drugs. It also
owns 36% of Digital Products Corp., a Fort Lauderdale, Fla.,
maker of security devices, including a house-arrest
monitoring device.
   CCC said Dr. David Gardner, Primedex's founder and
president, will become president and chief executive officer
of a new subsidiary that will operate CCC's "interest in the
medical management and financial services industry."
   Mr. Brennan couldn't be reached for comment.