LEISURE & ARTS -- Wine:
   The Consumers' Darling
   ----
   By Barbara Ensrud
"It's deeply imprinted on the consumer's mind," comments
Peter Morrell of Morrell & Co. wine shop in Manhattan.
"Chardonnay outsells other white wines by a huge margin."
   Production of Chardonnay ballooned in the '80s. There are
more than 500 Chardonnays produced in California alone,
probably a hundred in other states (New York, Oregon, Texas,
Virginia and Washington, for starters). The market is
literally saturated; there simply isn't shelf space for all
of them. And still they keep coming, brand new labels like
Sonoma-Loeb, Armida, Truchard, Pepperwood Springs. But they
don't seem to cause quite the stir of the mid-80s, when wine
buffs rushed out to try the newest one and restaurants vied
to get it on the wine list.
   Leading wine stores around the country stock anywhere from
90 to 125 labels of Chardonnay. Carlo Russo's Wine and Spirit
World in Fort Lee, N.J., has some 300. The price range is
broad, from $6.99 to $37.50; the range in styles is not as
dramatic but still broad enough to be confusing to those just
looking for a nice bottle of white wine.
   "People are somewhat overwhelmed," says Mr. Russo. "We let
our customers browse all they want, but then they usually ask
for help in choosing a Chardonnay to buy."
   Unless you know exactly what you want, the first thing you
will be asked is: What style do you like? Today's Chardonnays
may be oaked (lightly, moderately or heavily) or unoaked,
quite dry or mildly but perceptibly sweet, light in weight
and texture or quite rich and creamy.
   In the early days of the wine's popularity, choosing was
simpler. Most California Chardonnay was rich, oaky,
full-bodied. It was too heavy for some people, especially
fans of the more restrained white Burgundy (also made from
the chardonnay grape), who found California versions too
overpowering to enjoy with food, and so heady that more than
a glass or two was tiring to drink.
   When that point hit home to California wine makers, styles
began to change and shot off in various directions. Some wine
makers went lighter on oak and alcohol, or used no oak at
all. Many, however, began fermenting the wine in new oak
barrels. Very oaky Chardonnays still have their devotees --
wines like Talbott, Chalone, Long Vineyards, Kistler Dutton,
Mt. Eden. "Those wines move out as soon as we get them, even
at $30 or $40 a bottle," says Jim Arseneault of MacArthur
Liquors in Washington, D.C. "They're scarce and expensive,
but those who buy them know what they want."
   The largest segment of the Chardonnay market, crammed with
premium brands, is the moderately expensive range -- $16 to
$22 a bottle. Curiously, however, among the current crop of
wines, primarily those from the 1989 vintage, price has
little relation to quality. Recent blind tastings of '89
Chardonnays revealed numerous $18 and $20 bottles that were
simple, bland, no better than -- and sometimes not as good as
-- wines that cost half that.
   Some refer to it as "the '89 jinx" -- the year when
disastrous rainstorms struck many California vineyards just
as growers were about to harvest chardonnay.
   While the '89 vintage was a good one for Cabernet (the
grape ripens later) many Chardonnays are a bit diluted in
flavor or clumsily balanced. Trefethen Vineyards, which
produces one of the top labels in Chardonnay, chose not
release an '89 at all. "We are too commited to quality and
what our name stands for," says Janet Trefethen. "Our '89 had
no obvious flaws, but it sure wasn't Trefethen Chardonnay."
The 1990 Trefethen will be out in May, but in the meantime
the Trefethens are offering the Connoisseur's Chardonnay
Collection, magnums of earlier vintages (1983, 1984, 1985)
for $30 a bottle.
   Not all the '89 Chardonnays are disappointing, however,
and for that reason now is a good time to look for bargains.
Producers are so eager to move their '89s that prices even
for good ones have plunged.
   "There's a glut of Chardonnay out here," notes Chuck
Hayward of The Jug Shop in San Francisco, "and some of it's
good. We're seeing some amazing deals being made. Our
clientele is pretty sophisticated. They want the flavor of
$14 to $20 wines at a lower price. Our biggest category right
now is $8 to $12."
   Wine merchants around the country, in fact, report that
several top brands can be found for under $10, some for as
little as $8.99. "You can't ride just on the word Chardonnay
anymore," says Ed Johnna, owner of The Merchant of Vino in
Birmingham, Mich. "There's too much competition. You have to
build consumer confidence in your brand."
   Among the current crop of Chardonnays, some of the best
values are: Franciscan Cuvee Sauvage '89, Girard '89,
Whitehall Lane, '89, Morgan '89, Hess Select 1990, Leeward
'90, Stag's Leap Wine Cellars '90, Fisher Coach Insignia '89.
Most range from $9 for the Hess Select to about $17 a bottle.
   Incidentally, prices for '89 white Burgundies have dropped
as well, by as much as 25% from leading shippers like Louis
Latour and Joseph Drouhin. An '89 Meursault or Puligny --
Montrachet that was $35 or $37 a few months ago is now $25.
Further reductions could conceivably lie ahead. It might be
well, however, to seize the day and buy now.
   ---
   Ms. Ensrud is a free-lance wine writer based in New York.