Commodities:
   Ferruzzi Settles CBOT Soybean Charges
   ----
   By Jeffrey Taylor and Scott Kilman
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
The $3 million-plus in payments won't be much more than a
drop in the bucket for Ferruzzi, a chemical, pharmaceutical
and agricultural conglomerate with annual sales of more than
$15 billion. Yet people familiar with the case said legal
negotiations with the exchange were costing Ferruzzi an
average of about $1 million a month, providing ample
incentive for the company to settle the charges. (Ferruzzi
itself must pay the exchange $1.65 million, and its American
unit, Central Soya Co., was fined an additional $350,000.)
   Ferruzzi remains unrepentant. It continues to deny that it
tried to corner the soybean market, and a spokesman bristled
at the CBOT's description of the $2 million payment as a
fine. The Ferruzzi spokesman insisted the payment was merely
a way to end the company's expensive legal battle.
   "Ferruzzi didn't do anything wrong," said Larry Friedman
of Ferruzzi's outside public relations firm. "This is the
price of dismissing the charges." Ferruzzi didn't make any of
its executives available for comment.
   Under language of the settlement, which is typical of the
commodities industry, Ferruzzi neither admitted nor denied it
was guilty of the CBOT's charges of attempted manipulation
and reckless trading, the exchange said.
   The CBOT's Business Conduct Committee held closed hearings
in the case from September to December 1990, proceedings that
would have remained secret but for Ferruzzi's unsuccessful
attempt to block them in federal court.
   At the hearings, dozens of traders and others testified
that in early 1989, Ferruzzi accumulated a stake in soybean
futures contracts entitling it to take delivery of about 23
million bushels of soybeansvastly more than were available
for delivery at the time. Meanwhile, the conglomerate
acquired rights to about 75% of the 12 million bushels that
were available in CBOT warehouses.
   As the July delivery date for the futures contracts
loomed, the CBOT invoked seldom-used emergency powers to
force Ferruzzi to liquidate its position. This kept the
shortage of soybeans from pushing futures prices to
artificially high levels. And as Ferruzzi liquidated, futures
prices plunged.
   Ferruzzi later filed suit against the exchange, seeking
damages for its losses during the liquidation. As part of
Friday's settlement, Ferruzzi agreed to drop that lawsuit.
"This settlement puts the matter to rest," said exchange
President Thomas R. Donovan.
   The episode provoked intense debate within the grain
industry over whether the CBOT's delivery procedures, which
concentrate all grain deliverable against futures contracts
into a few warehouses in Chicago and Toledo, are outdated.
The CBOT since has proposed adding delivery warehouses in St.
Louis.
   As part of the settlement, Ferruzzi is resigning its one
full membership at the Chicago Board of Trade. This step is
largely symbolic; the seat is being transferred to Central
Soya, which already held six CBOT seats.
   "It was a case of `You can't fire me, I quit,'" said a
CBOT official who asked not to be identified. "They could
either continue to fight, and possibly get a bigger fine and
probably have both Ferruzzi and Central Soya expelled, or
they could settle."
   Looking ahead to commodity markets this week:
                                                                                                       

   Energy
                                                                                                       

   Crude-oil futures prices rallied late in the trading
session Friday, boosted by lack of news from the U.N.-Iraq
meeting in Vienna and statements by Venezuela that it was
going to cut its oil output immediately.
   Adjournment of the Vienna meeting where parties were
talking about terms for renewal of Iraqi oil exports removed
the threat that Iraqi crude would flow into the already
glutted market within weeks.
   And the Venezuelan cut of 50,000 barrels a day, while only
a token amount, caused some market participants to speculate
that other members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries might follow suit. OPEC is scheduled to gather next
month in Geneva to discuss oil pricing and production.
   Prices had been firm all day but buying became hectic near
the trading close.
   Separately, the New York Mercantile Exchange announced it
will begin trading sour crude-oil futures on Friday, Feb. 28.
Each contract will represent 1,000 U.S. barrels.
                                                                                                       

   Grains and Soybeans
                                                                                                       

   Wheat futures prices are expected to rise today on the
heels of a U.S. Agriculture Department report predicting that
tight wheat supplies will continue.
   The USDA's winter wheat seedings report, released after
trading Friday, estimated that farmers seeded about 50
million acres of wheat last fall, 2% less than a year
earlier. U.S. wheat stocks are low because of big exports to
the former Soviet Union and because bad growing weather has
reduced yields.
   Wheat prices on the cash market were up strongly over the
past few months, and analysts say that trend is likely to
continue.
                                                                                                       

   Precious Metals
                                                                                                       

   Traders are anxious to see whether Thursday's rally in
gold, silver and platinum resumes or falters this week.
   On Friday, gold for February delivery ended at $356.90 an
ounce, down 60 cents. March silver fell back 4.8 cents an
ounce to $4.105. April platinum gained 10 cents an ounce to
finish at $340.10.
   William O'Neill, senior futures strategist at Merrill
Lynch, said a major rally is unlikely and, in fact, the
recent lows could be retested. "The market isn't out of the
woods yet," he said.
   Despite last week's rally, the fundamentals of precious
metals haven't changed much, he explained. The first quarter
will be a bottoming period for the precious metals, he
predicted, with prices showing modest strength later in the
year.
  ---
   Kevin G. Salwen in Washington contributed to this article.