Loosen Codes and House the Homeless
   ----
   By Richard L. Cravatts
In New York City, for instance, one of the nation's most
expensive housing markets, 98,400 people lived in SROs in
1965; by 1986 that number had plummeted to 18,720. Seattle
had seen a similar decline when half the city's units (some
16,000) were destroyed for an urban redevelopment plan
because they couldn't comply with a new fire code. A quarter
of San Francisco's SRO units were lost (1,247) between 1976
and 1985.
   Moreover, tightening fire and building codes had made the
prospect of building new SROs impractical and unprofitable,
particularly given the stringent requirements for minimum
living-space square footage, parking, and cooking and toilet
facilities commonly included in zoning and health bylaws.
   In the 1980s, localities, belatedly realizing that SROs
were needed for the single poor, instituted moratoriums on
the elimination of these units. But these laws were coercive.
In vetoing a bill in October that would have extended a
moratorium on the elimination of single room occupancy units,
Gov. Weld was heeding a recent Supreme Court decision that
determined that a similar New York City ban constituted an
unlawful "taking" of private property. But this ruling need
not be bad news for the poor. There are better ways to
increase the number of SROs than forcing their owners to
operate them.
   One partial solution to the SRO problem was found in San
Francisco in 1984, and it may well appeal to Gov. Weld in
Massachusetts as a model of how the "entrepreneurial
government" he has advocated can meet a public-policy
objective -- in this case, the creation by the private sector
of a vital type of affordable housing.
   Hesitant to extend a moratorium on a small number of
existing -- but decaying and unsafe -- SRO units, and
squeezed by development pressure to change the face of older
neighborhoods where SRO housing was located, San Francisco
policy makers were persuaded to let a private developer
provide a model by which new SROs could be built. That model
came to be known as the Baltic, an SRO named after the
cheapest property on the Monopoly board.
   In a thorough case study written at Harvard's Kennedy
School of Government, Andrew Jack and David Kennedy described
the Baltic as "a four story, 207-room building with a density
equivalent to more than 700 units an acre. The rooms were
only 120 square feet each, but each contained, in addition to
a bed and storage space, a microwave, a large sink with a
garbage disposal, and a toilet (partitioned but not closed
off from the rest of the room). Communal showers were on each
hall."
   Most significant, though, was the final per-room cost:
"Construction costs -- including land -- were consequently
very low, only $14,868 per unit." Even the Baltic's
below-market rents in the $200 to $285 range would therefore
be sufficient to cover costs and allow the developer a
profit.
   The developer, Chris Mortenson, was happy to pay for the
new property himself, except for two concessions he
eventually received from the city. One was a relaxation in
the way the existing building codes would be interpreted and
enforced. Tiny rooms with adjacent open toilets and partial
kitchens might have been acceptable to SRO tenants, but they
were expressly forbidden by existing California codes. Only
after much negotiation did the developer and city come to
terms with that problem: They designated and made legal a new
type of dwelling unit -- a "living unit" -- which was
something in between a hotel-sized room without a kitchen and
a larger, residential-sized room with full kitchen and toilet
facilities.
   The only direct subsidy from the city was a low-interest
second mortgage given to help complete the project's
permanent financing. In return for that participation, 20% of
the Baltic's units were set aside for poorer tenants at
reduced rent levelscapped for the life of the loan.
   The Baltic model illustrates how government can help ease
-- rather than constrict -- development through cooperative
entrepreneurialism. If Gov. Weld and other policy makers wish
to help expedite the creation of affordable SRO housing, the
time might be right for helping the private sector do the
right thing.
   A key factor in that equation is flexibility in
interpreting zoning and building requirements. That means,
for instance, that existing regulations defining acceptable
density -- number of units on a certain sized parcel of land
-- should be modified, given high land costs for the
developer and the crying need for housing units for the very
poor who might otherwise be homeless. City parking
requirements that mandate that minimum numbers of parking
spaces be provided for newly constructed residential
buildings can also be re-evaluated, particularly since such
rules drive up land acquisition costs, reduce the total
quantity of residential units, and might be inappropriate for
a target group of residents least likely to own automobiles.
   The experience of the Baltic also indicated an unintended
but significant side benefit: Existing San Francisco SROs,
many of them substandard, had to immediately improve
amenities and upgrade overall conditions to successfully
compete in a housing market where newer, more desirable units
like the Baltic were being built. That model is favorable to
one in which the housing market is regulated and an owner's
right to use, convert, or renovate a property is legally
restricted. And the lesson of the entrepreneurial marketplace
has historically been that investors will more readily enter
the market when government regulations enhance -- rather than
diminish -- the prospect of profitability.
   ---
   Mr. Cravatts, president of Publications Management Co., a
publishing and advertising firm in Newton, Mass., writes
frequently about real estate investment.
   ---
   Correction
                                                                                                       

   "Loosen Codes and House the Homeless," on yesterday's
editorial page, misidentified the city whose code changes
allowed the Baltic SRO to go forward. That city is San Diego.
   (WSJ Feb. 7, 1992)