Credit Markets:
   Bond Prices Fall on Rumor of Strong Job Data;
   Corporations Continue Stream of New Issues
   ----
   By Matt Rees and Tony McAuley
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
The government's employment report for December is
scheduled for release at 8:30 a.m. EST. Most economists
expect it to show a weak labor market -- which would be
favorable for the bond market. Economists polled by Dow Jones
Capital Markets Report project that non-farm payrolls will
show a decline of about 74,000 for December. Payrolls dropped
241,000 in November.
   Based partly on those expectations, bond prices opened
higher. But around midsession yesterday, rumors spread that
government figures had been leaked and showed a sharp rise in
payrolls during December. That put bond prices under
substantial pressure. The Labor Department said it had no
evidence of a leak and wasn't investigating the reports.
   Traders said that some investors used the rumors as an
excuse to take profits. "It was the more speculative
accounts" that sold, said Paul McCormack, head Treasury
trader at Chase Securities Inc. "Pension funds and money
managers haven't been selling, that's for sure."
   Meanwhile, corporations continued to shower investors with
new notes and bonds, although issuance slowed sharply from
Wednesday, when more than $5 billion of corporate debt was
offered. Issuance of new Eurobonds, however, showed no signs
of slowing, and some dealers said yesterday that the supply
of new Eurobonds is falling short of demand.
   Yesterday's issue by the International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development, or World Bank, of $1.5
billion of 10-year notes sold out quickly. The notes were
priced to yield 6.88%.
   Treasury bond prices were also helped by government
inflation data released yesterday morning. The Labor
Department said the producer price index, a measure of
inflation on the producer or wholesale level, dropped 0.2% in
December. The core rate of inflation, which excludes food and
energy prices, rose 0.2%. Also favorable for the bond market,
which does well in a slow economy, was news that initial
claims for state unemployment insurance rose 22,000 in the
latest week, compared with expectations of only a 9,000 rise.
   Gilbert Benz, economist at Swiss Bank Corp., said the
decline in wholesale inflation was helped by lower prices in
the energy sector. "And there isn't any sign of price
pressure anywhere else, either," Mr. Benz added.
   As the bond market rallied, the March bond futures
contract rose to the highest price ever paid for a bond
contract at the Chicago Board of Trade. The March bond traded
at 105 20/32, the highest level of its 14-year history. But
futures prices declined in unison with the rest of the market
once the rumors about today's employment data hit the market.
                                                                                                       

   Treasury Securities
                                                                                                       

   Treasurys ended weaker on the rumors about the employment
situation.
   The benchmark 30-year bond ended at a price of 106 29/32
to yield 7.41%, compared with 107 7/32 to yield 7.39%
Wednesday. Ten-year notes declined to 105 1/32 to yield 6.77%
compared with 105 8/32 to yield 6.74%.
   There was little reaction late in the session to the
release of surprisingly weak money-supply data for the latest
week. The M2 component of the monetary aggregates dropped
$6.1 billion, compared with expectations that it would remain
unchanged. M1 was down $2.6 billion, but had been expected to
drop only $100 million, while M3 declined $16.9 billion. M3
had been forecast to slip a mere $2.1 billion.
   James Winder, money-market economist at Merrill Lynch 
Co., says there was little market reaction to the data,
because the declines probably reflect investors moving funds
out of money-market accounts and into higher-yielding
investments, as money-market interest rates continue to
slide.
   Meanwhile, the Treasury sold $12.53 billion of 52-week
bills at an average rate of 3.84%. That was down from 4.20%
at the previous 52-week bill auction Dec. 12 and was the
lowest average rate since 3.59% at the March 31, 1971,
auction.
                                                                                                       

                       52-WEEK BILLS
                                                                                                       

   Rates are determined by the difference between the
purchase price and face value. Thus, higher bidding narrows
the investor's return while lower bidding widens it. The
percentage rates are calculated on a 360-day year, while the
coupon equivalent yield is based on a 366-day year.
                                                                                                       

 Applications                           $37,120,975,000
 Accepted bids                          $12,526,175,000
 Accepted at low price                              16%
 Accepted noncompetitively                 $696,895,000
 Average price (Rate)                    96.117 (3.84%)
 High price (Rate)                       96.138 (3.82%)
 Low price (Rate)                        96.107 (3.85%)
 Coupon equivalent                                4.02%
 CUSIP number                                 912794ZZ0
                                                                                                       

   The bills are dated Jan. 16, 1992, and mature Jan. 14,
1993.
                                                                                                       

   Foreign Bonds
                                                                                                       

   Prices of dollar-denominated Eurobonds eased in sympathy
with a slumping U.S. Treasury market, but demand for new
Eurobond issues remained strong.
   The biggest issuer was the International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development, or World Bank. The
development bank, which is based in Washington but owned by a
consortium of 156 countries, sold $1.5 billion of 10-year
notes denominated in U.S. dollars in a "global" offering.
Global transactions involve simultaneous offerings in various
major financial centers around the world.
   The offering found greater-than-expected demand from
investors in Asia, according to Paul Seigelbaum, head of
dollar borrowing at the World Bank. He estimates that about
40% of the issue sold in the Far East, with Europe taking
about 35% and the U.S. 25%.
   Dealers said the notes traded strongly after they were
sold. The notes were priced to yield 6.88%, a spread of 0.15
percentage point above the 10-year Treasury. Later in the
day, the spread narrowed to 0.10 percentage point as the
price moved up to 99.44 from an initial 99.07.
   New dollar-denominated bonds issued by Britain's hotel
chain Forte PLC and Swiss foods giant Nestle Holdings Inc.
also found strong demand. Forte sold $200 million of 5 3/8%
two-year Eurobonds priced to yield 5.41% via Goldman Sachs
International PLC. Nestle's $200 million five-year bonds
priced to yield 6.27% were "an absolute sell-out," according
to several market participants. The borrower is popular with
Swiss investors, and despite what were considered aggressive
terms, the issue sold out in minutes, underwriters said.
   Among U.S. borrowers in the Eurobond market was General
Electric Credit Corp., the financial unit of General Electric
Co. GECC sold 250 million marks of five-year notes priced to
yield 7.68% through J.P. Morgan G.m.b.H. It also sold 175
billion Italian lira of three-year notes through underwriters
at Paribas Capital Markets. The notes were priced to yield
11.58%.
   Ontario Hydro, a Canadian government-controlled electric
utility, disclosed plans yesterday for a new global bond
offering of at least one billion Canadian dollars (US$875
million) shortly. The bonds will probably have a 10-year
maturity.
   Although many of Ontario Hydro's past offerings have been
greeted by strong demand, underwriting specialists say some
investors are concerned about the financial health of Ontario
province, which guarantees Ontario Hydro bonds.
   Analysts say Ontario's credit rating might deteriorate
this year as its economy continues to languish and its
borrowing requirement rises. As budget negotiations get under
way in the province, the Toronto Globe and Mail reported
yesterday that Premier Bob Rae will soon go on television to
warn of the province's "desperate economic situation."
   Ontario officials, meanwhile, sought to quell investor
concerns. "It's reasonable to say {Ontario's} borrowing
requirement is likely to be higher" this year, said Sandra
Tychsen, director of capital markets research at the
province's Treasury. But she said she doesn't expect the
credit rating agencies to change their views of the
province's standing.
                                                                                                       

   Corporate Bonds
                                                                                                       

   Junk bonds of R.H. Macy  Co. plunged yesterday, although
a company spokesman denied rumors that prompted the declines.
   According to traders, bond investors are concerned that
manufacturers -- nervous because of the weak Christmas
selling season -- will stop shipping goods to Macy. That,
they fear, would force Macy to file for protection under
Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code just to get inventory.
   A Macy spokesman dismissed those concerns. "These rumors
have been around for months and for years, and it hasn't
happened, and it's not going to happen," Michael Freitag, the
spokesman for Macy at Kekst  Co., said.
   Liz Claiborne Inc., which is said by analysts to be among
Macy's largest suppliers, currently is shipping goods to
Macy, its chief executive officer, Jerome Chazen, told Dow
Jones Capital Markets Report. Liz Claiborne is a New York
clothing designer.
   Despite the denials, prices of Macy's bonds ended sharply
lower. Hardest hit were the zero-coupon bonds, which fell
seven points to an offered price of 29. The bonds had been
rising earlier in the week on a research report by J.P.
Morgan Securities Inc. analyst Michael Cha.
   Mr. Cha reinstated his "buy" recommendation on the Macy
bonds and said he doesn't envision any major problems in the
short term in Macy's relationships with manufacturers. "Since
the banks appear to be on board, I think {Macy's suppliers}
are going to be on board," he said.
   But even if Macy's suppliers are accommodating, says
Meredith Adler, an analyst at First Boston Corp., Macy could
face some problems down the road. By the 1992 pre-Christmas
season, Ms. Adler anticipates that the company could need as
much as $150 million to $200 million of additional borrowing
capacity. "Maybe they'll get through the spring, but they
could run into stumbling blocks by next Christmas season,"
she said.
   In the broader high-yield market, prices of most junk
bonds ended little changed. Investment-grade corporate bonds
edged lower, registering losses of 1/4 to 3/8 point.
   New issues continued to roll out. Among the biggest
corporate issuers was El Paso Natural Gas Co., which offered
$575 million of debt securities in three parts. The company
sold $100 million of five-year notes priced to yield 6.90%,
$215 million of 10-year notes yielding 7.786% and $260
million of 30-year debentures priced to yield 8.689%.
   A number of banks were also in the public debt markets.
Bankers Trust New York Corp. offered $300 million of
three-year notes yielding 5.32%, while J.P. Morgan  Co. sold
$200 million of 10-year subordinated notes at a yield of
7.264%.
                                                                                                       

   Municipal Bonds
                                                                                                       

   Prices of active municipals finished little changed in
moderately active trading.
   Denver airport system revenue bonds declined slightly even
though Standard  Poor's Corp. raised its rating on the bonds
to triple-B from triple-B-minus.
   In upgrading the Denver airport bonds, SP cited the
commitment of UAL Corp.'s United Air Lines Inc. to use the
airport facility now under construction and slated to open in
late 1993.
   Prices of the Denver bonds have been under pressure on
concern about whether Continental Airlines, a major carrier
in the region that now is under bankruptcy-law protection,
will make the new airport its hub.
   In trading yesterday, Denver airport's 7 3/4% bonds due
2021 were quoted at 99 3/4, off 1/8 point, to yield 7.23%.
Some traders said the bonds could rise 1/4 to 1/2 point today
as more investors become aware of the rating change.
   The airport is expected to sell $300 million of bonds in
mid-February. The rating change is "a definite positive sign
for the next bond issue," said Gene Andrist, a vice president
of municipal finance for Dain Bosworth Inc. in Denver.
   Elsewhere in the market, it was reported yesterday that
concerns about disclosure kept underwriters at First Chicago
Capital Markets Inc. from bidding on an offering Tuesday of
$31.9 million University of Illinois certificates of
participation.
   In the past several years, disclosure has become a hot
topic in the municipal bond market, where rules and
guidelines for disclosure are not nearly as rigorous as they
are in the corporate bond market.
   First Chicago balked at bidding on the bonds because a
preliminary offering statement didn't contain information
about Illinois's budget deficit of about $500 million for the
fiscal year ending June 30, said Harry Larson, president of
First Chicago Capital Markets. About half of the $8 million
to $9 million of annual debt service payments on the
certificates is payable from state appropriations.
   Information on the state's financial situation wasn't
included in the offering statement because definite
information about the size of the deficit and measures to
close it wasn't available when the statement was prepared in
December, according to officials at the University of
Illinois and its financial adviser, John Nuveen  Co.
   "I think it's just an honest difference of opinion," says
First Chicago's Mr. Larson. "We just felt that would have
been an appropriate disclosure."
   ---
   Corrections  Amplifications
                                                                                                       

   IT IS TOO SOON to predict the province of Ontario's
borrowing requirements for this year, according to Sandra
Tychsen of the provincial Treasury. Ms. Tychsen was
incorrectly quoted in Friday's edition as saying it was
reasonable to expect requirements to be higher.
   (WSJ Jan. 13, 1992)