Bank Sheds Troubled Real Estate Loans
   For $108 Million, a Big Step for Market
   ----
   By Neil Barsky and Martha Brannigan
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
The sale, to a real estate investment partnership, is
significant because it may signal that banks with strong
capital bases are ready to part with their bad real estate
loans and properties even at today's depressed prices. Most
banks have been unwilling or unable to sell their real estate
because such sales would force them to recognize their
losses, which would deplete their capital. A willingness to
sell would be an important first step toward undoing the
severe slump that has gripped the real estate market over the
past two years.
   "NationsBank is doing what other banks will start doing
once their earnings improve," said Edward Furash, a
Washington, D.C., banking consultant. "When you look at the
amount of time and money banks must spend on their bad real
estate, it becomes clear that the banking system won't
recover until these properties get repriced and put back on
the market."
   The sales price at 50 cents on the dollar also suggests
something more ominous: Banks with large portfolios of real
estate will still have to take massive hits if they want to
wipe their portfolios clean of bad real estate loans.
   While banks have been forced to take some write-offs for
their nonperforming real estate loans, critics said they
still haven't written them down to their actual value. Once
the loans or assets are sold, however, banks have no choice
but to account for them according to the selling price.
   The buyer of the package, SunAmerica Realty Partners, is a
Los Angeles partnership of a subsidiary of Broad Inc. and JMG
Properties, people familiar with the transaction said. The
group was formed a year ago to purchase distressed
properties.
   The eight hotels are said to be spread throughout the
Southeastern U.S. SunAmerica will likely restructure the
defaulted loans and keep the operators in place.
   Financing is believed to have been provided by Broad Inc.,
a California financial services firm. A SunAmerica official
declined to comment on the sale.
   Mr. Figge said the company is negotiating to sell several
larger packages of distressed real estate. One package
includes properties and commercial real estate loans held by
NCNB, and a second is a combination of real estate properties
and loans from both NCNB and CS/Sovran Corp., which NCNB
acquired at the end of 1991.
   James H. Hance Jr., chief financial officer of
NationsBank, said the Charlotte, N.C., company intends to
pursue the concept of pool sales to get rid of real estate as
fast as it prudently can. "It reduces our carrying charges
and avoids the risk of further decline in value," says Mr.
Hance. "And it lets us put the money back to work."
   Such a strategy is "a sign of strength for NCNB," says J.
Richard Fredericks, a banking analyst with Montgomery
Securities. "Most banks have been unwilling to take losses."
   SunAmerica is one of a number of well-funded groups formed
over the past 12 months to acquire the distressed real estate
seized by banks or by the federal Resolution Trust Corp.
Goldman, Sachs  Co., Morgan Stanley  Co., General Electric
Corp. and Merrill Lynch  Co. collectively raised close to $2
billion last year to acquire such real estate.
   So far, there have been few actual sales, other than those
involving the RTC, because sellers have been unwilling to
drop their prices.
   Analysts say the NationsBank strategy could be the
beginning of a more realistic market, however. "We're seeing
the beginning of what everyone is hoping will happen," said
Mr. Furash. "The banks will get realistic in their pricing
and other investors will smell the market and fresh money
will come in."