Technology  Health:
   Microsoft Values
   Claims by Apple
   At $4.37 Billion
   ----
   By Carrie Dolan
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
In a high-stakes case that was filed more than three years
ago, Apple claims software sold by Microsoft and Hewlett
Packard Co. illegally copied visual displays that give
Apple's Macintosh computer a distinctive look and feel. The
case hasn't yet gone to trial. Microsoft's statement
yesterday about what Apple is seeking in damages was drawn
from documents that Microsoft received from Apple in pretrial
discovery.
   Microsoft denies that its Windows software infringes on
any Apple copyrights.
   In a statement yesterday, Hewlett-Packard said: "Apple's
claims for damages are groundless. As we've said in the past,
HP New Wave doesn't violate Apple copyrights and we believe
our view will prevail when the case is decided."
   An Apple spokesman, however, said Microsoft "misread the
documents. This is a huge mistake. This is not a public or
formal damage claim. We will make our claim in trial. It may
be more or less" than the $4.37 billion that Microsoft cited.
   The Apple spokesman said Microsoft was quoting a study
done by a "highly credible" source that Apple will call as an
expert witness. The study, done by Robert Hall, a professor
at Stanford University, estimates that Apple may have
suffered more than $4 billion in damages from Microsoft and
Hewlett-Packard software, the spokesman said.
   It is difficult to calculate the value of the Windows
software to Microsoft. Currently, the company is selling
about 500,000 copies of Windows per month. The Windows
program makes the operating software on PCs easier to use,
with the help of menus and graphics. In addition, sales of
applications software that is used in conjunction with
Windows nets Microsoft well in excess of $500 million a year.
   For the year ended June 30, Microsoft posted net income of
$462.7 million, or $2.47 a share, on revenue of $1.84
billion. For its year ended Sept. 27, Apple posted net income
of $309.8 million, or $2.58 a share, on revenue of $6.31
billion.