Saving the Banks:
   Mergers Alone Don't Cut Banks' Costs
   ----
   By Gary Gorton
Banks have responded to the over-capacity by shifting
their business from corporate loans to off-balance sheet
activity, such as loan commitments and standby letters of
credit for corporations, and to commercial real estate
lending. But these risky new activities have not been enough
to replace lost bank profit. One measure of bank profit,
return on assets, declined almost continually during the
1980s, at the same time as one measure of risk, the ratio of
charge-offs to total loans, rose continuously. In recently
conducted research banking economist Richard Rosen and I
found that the risk-return trade-off for banks worsened
throughout the 1980s. During this period banks systematically
took on more risk, holding (expected) return constant. The
problem was not that banks wouldn't lend; it was that they
consistently made bad bets on borrowers.
   In unregulated industries, the natural impulse when
profitability declines is to leave the industry for greener
pastures. One reason why banks are not shrinking in the face
of declining profitability is that "blockaded exit" prevents
shrinkage. Unlike companies in other declining industries,
banks cannot diversify into unrelated activities, as, for
instance, U.S. Steel did when it purchased Marathon Oil. More
importantly, nonbanks are restricted from buying banks.
   Many commentators have argued that bank mergers will
slowly shift resources out of the banking industry. Our
research, however, found that mergers do not result in a
reduction in excess capacity.
   For example, when CS merged with Landmark bank in Florida
in 1985, total assets of the new combined bank in the two
years following the merger grew one to two percentage points
faster than the growth rate for the two banks in the few
years prior to the merger. When First Union merged with
Atlantic Bancorporation in 1985, the growth rate of total
assets was roughly double that of the two banks prior to the
merger. While there are counter-examples, in general the
alleged economies motivating the merger do not seem to result
in a reduction in total assets. Mergers appear to be
motivated by factors other than asset reduction.
   The evidence that mergers are not shrinking the industry
suggests that some
   hing in addition to blockaded exit is impeding the
reduction of the industry. One important problem is that
managers like bigness; evidence suggests that management
compensation is related to size. Also, manager-controlled
companies resist shrinking or going out of business because
managers' careers are tied up in the firms they manage. If
managers pursue their own goals rather than those of
stockholders, banks may continue growing even when the growth
results in reduced profitability.
   Corporate control problems may be more severe in banking
than in other industries. Because bank loans are typically
illiquid, they are difficult for outsiders to value. This
means that it is hard for outsiders to detect situations in
which bank managements are inefficiently using bank
resources. Another reason for corporate control problems at
banks is that bank managers have regulatory protection
against takeovers unavailable to most of their nonbank
brethren.
   There is an alternative explanation for banks' reluctance
to shrink, despite the declining profitability of their
industry: The perverse incentives that arise from federal
deposit insurance. The federal government charges all banks,
the safest and the riskiest alike, the same deposit insurance
premiums. That can encourage inefficient risk taking because,
as real profit opportunities disappear, shareholders might
(tacitly) encourage bank managers to "go for broke" by
increasing risk, since increased asset risk does not affect
the deposit insurance premium. There are those who believe
this phenomenon -- often referred to as the "moral hazard"
problem -- is responsible for many of the problems in banking
today. However, for this explanation to be true, shareholders
must have effective control over bank managers, since
increased risk implies an increased chance of bankruptcy and
therefore of managers losing their jobs.
   Which factor is more important in explaining the
persistence of overcapacity in the banking industry: the
entrenchment of managements by rules that block exit and
entry out of and into banking, or risk-taking caused by
artificially priced deposit insurance? Our research suggests
that entrenched management is more of a problem than is the
deposit insurance system.
   In an unregulated industry with overcapacity there are a
varsity of mechanisms which force resources to exit and find
more productive uses. In banking, entrenched management
leaves failure as the only way assets can be taken from the
industry. Until active nonbank investors are allowed into the
industry, bank failures will be the inevitable consequence of
the banks' declining profitability.
   ---
   Mr. Gorton teaches finance at the Wharton business school.