OTC Focus:
   Index Surges 2.61% as Shares Break
   Losing Streak; Technologies Rebound
   ----
   By Dave Pettit and Anne Newman
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
The market gains were broad-based. Advancing issues
swamped decliners, 1,459-to-743, as 131 issues climbed to new
highs and only 11 fell to new lows. Total OTC volume eased,
however, to 251.2 million shares from 265.4 million Tuesday.
   Traders said both institutions and individual investors
bid shares higher, particularly issues in the recently
battered computer technology, biotechnology and
health-related industry groups.
   Profit-taking had depressed the technology and medical
segments in recent days as investors shifted some of their
investment capital to industry groups expected to perform
well in an economic recovery later this year.
   But that selling came to a screeching halt yesterday.
"There was a complete change of sentiment," said Hedi
Reynolds, head of OTC trading at Morgan Keegan  Co. "The
sellers {no longer felt} there was any urgency to sell and
the buyers were afraid they were going to miss out" on a
renewed rally, she said.
   Shares of software developer Microsoft, which hadn't had
an advance since closing at a 52-week high of 131 1/2 last
Wednesday, soared 6 1/8 to 125 1/2. Elsewhere, three health
care-related new issues came to market and closed well above
their offering prices.
   The new-issues market sizzled, as newly public Ventritex
soared $12 from its offering price of $18 a share to close at
$30. The size of Ventritex's offering, for example, was
increased to 4.6 million shares from 2.7 million and its
offering price raised from an originally expected $13 a
share. Another five companies went public yesterday, right on
the heels of six new offerings Tuesday.
   Investors in Ventritex are making a big bet that a federal
advisory panel will give a green light to the Sunnyvale,
Calif., company's first major product when the panel convenes
early next month. Ventritex has developed an electronic
defribrillator designed to prevent lethal ventricular
fibrillation in some 100,000 cardiac patients each year who
survive episodes of "sudden cardiac death." The product is an
electronic device implanted in a patient's abdomen, is
designed to monitor a patient's heartbeat and will deliver
electrical shocks to the heart to stop ventricular
fibrillation.
   The company, which has implanted 540 of its Cadence
defribrillators in patients during trials of the product, is
seeking clearance for the product from a Food and Drug
Administration advisory panel in the first week of February.
   Ventritex looks like a risky bet. Since its inception in
1985, the company's losses have mounted as it poured funds
into research and development: for fiscal 1991, ended in
June, it had a loss of $6.5 million on revenue of $7 million.
Ventritex also has some stiff competition: Medtronic is due
to go before the same FDA advisory panel on Feb. 3 for
clearance of a similar product.
   Eli Lilly  Co. also is in the same field.
   But investors such as Charles Mangum, manager of the $190
million Fidelity Select Medical Delivery Fund, say they're
willing to bet that Ventritex will win approval and be the
only "pure play" among makers of implantable defribrillators.
Mr. Mangum, who says he bought some shares both before the
offering and during yesterday's feverish trading, says he's a
long-term investor.
   "It's a fantastic story," he says, pointing out that each
defribrillator costs about $20,000 per patient. If the
product is approved, he expects the company to generate about
$100 million a year by fiscal 1993 and earn about $1.15 a
share by the fiscal year ending in June 1994. He concedes,
however, that Ventritex's newly issued shares could plummet
if the panel hearing doesn't go well.
   Among other hot new stocks yesterday, Gilead Sciences
jumped to 20 1/4, up 5 1/4 from its offering price of $15
apiece, and was the day's most active OTC issue as 5.2
million shares changed hands. The size of the offering was
increased to five million shares from three million and the
offering price raised from an originally expected $12 to $14
apiece. The Foster City, Calif., company said that it is
developing a new class of pharmaceuticals based on
"nucleotides," a class of molecules that can be chemically
changed to inhibit the production or activity of
disease-causing proteins. Gilead said that its products will
be developed to treat a broad range of diseases, including
viral infections, cardiovascular disease, inflammatory
disease and cancer.
   PhyCor, a Nashville, Tenn., provider of services for
medical clinics, climbed 1 to 17 from its offering price of
$16 each. The size of the offering was raised to 2,350,000
shares from an originally planned two million shares.
   The market isn't hot for all IPOs, however. Fleet Call, a
fledgling paging and dispatch services concern, rescheduled
an initial offering that was postponed in December, Dow Jones
Professional Investor Report said. The company, however, now
plans to sell just 7.5 million shares, rather than 11 million
shares, at about $15 to $16 apiece, rather than the
originally planned $18 to $20 a share.
   Elsewhere, Henley Group advanced 3 to 28 3/4. The company
formed a special board committee to evaluate a
recapitalization plan that includes distribution of $250
million in cash to the company's shareholders.
   Software Publishing climbed 2 to 22 1/4. The company had
earnings of 33 cents a share for its first quarter, ended
last month, down from 52 cents a share a year ago, but above
the mean analyst estimate of 20 cents a share reported by
First Call, a unit of Thomson Financial Networks.
   Dibrell Brothers jumped 2 3/8 to 31 3/4. A.G. Edwards 
Sons analyst Barry Ziegler raised his investment rating on
the stock to "buy" from "hold," Dow Jones Professional
Investor Report said. Dibrell is a Danville, Va., provider of
tobacco and fresh-cut flowers.
   NeoRx added 1 to 6. The Seattle company said the FDA
completed a review of clinical data filed in connection with
a product license application submitted for the company's
Oncotrac cancer imagingagent product.
   ClothesTime gained 1 1/8 to 11 after the apparel
retailer's president, Norman Abramson, said he generally
backs analysts' earnings estimates in the range of six cents
to eight cents a share for the fourth quarter, ending this
month.
   Contel Cellular's Class A shares rose 1 7/8 to 20 3/4. An
analyst at Shearson Lehman Brothers was said to have
recommended purchase of the stock. The company is 90% owned
by Contel Corp., a unit of GTE Corp.
   Calgene gained 7/8 to 14 1/4. The company said it
developed a genetically engineered canola plant that can be
used as a source of laurate, a raw material that the company
said is used by the food and personal-care industries.
   CoreStates Financial lost 1 1/4 to 47 3/8 despite the
company's report that it earned $1.11 a share in the fourth
quarter, reversing a year-ago loss of $1.33 a share. Analysts
surveyed by First Call had expected net of $1.07 a share in
the latest period.
   SFFed Corp. dropped 3/4 to 9 1/4 after the San Francisco
thrift reported lower-than-expected fourth-quarter net of 52
cents a share. Analysts had seen latest-quarter earnings at
about 56 cents a share, according to First Call. A year ago,
SFFed had a loss of $1.15 a share.
   ---
   Phillip E. Nalbone contributed to this article.