REVIEW  OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   Target Practice in Japan
It turns out that the hapless Japanese prime minister in
his remarks about import targets was simply trying to explain
a few basics of free trade. During a televised interview in
Tokyo Monday, Prime Minister Kiichi Miyazawa was asked
whether Japan could expect a bad U.S. backlash if it didn't
fulfill the import goals discussed during President Bush's
recent visit to Tokyo.
   These goals included offers from Japan's Big Five auto
makers to buy "voluntarily" more auto parts made in the U.S.,
with the aim of more than doubling their total yearly U.S.
procurements to $19 billion in the fiscal year ending March
1995. Mr. Miyazawa replied that Japan "is a market economy,
and therefore it is a target toward which each company would
make efforts rather than a firm promise."
   This is an entirely reasonable response, falling well
within the bounds of Mr. Miyazawa's public agreements with
Mr. Bush, and favoring the principles of free trade and
consumer choice. Were Japan a fascist state, Mr. Miyazawa
might be able to guarantee that import volumes will run on a
government timetable. But Japan these days is a capitalist
society. Presumably, the aim of further opening its markets
is to let consumers choose more freely for themselves what
they will buy.
   Certainly Mr. Miyazawa and his colleagues in the Japanese
Diet and government bureaucracy could do more to eliminate
state barriers to trade, and this they have pledged to do.
Indeed, the most effective drumbeat for a more open Japanese
economy has been coming not from irate U.S. auto executives,
but from a Japanese public that has in recent years begun
demanding better value for its money.
   But even if Japan's leaders were to take the wise step of
turning the whole country into a Hong Kong-style open
economy, it would be dead wrong for the Japanese government
to make any promises about what Japanese consumers would buy.
   Consumers might opt for cars crammed with $19 billion
worth of American-made pistons, pedals and belt buckles. But
they might choose instead to lavish that hallowed $19 billion
on tons of bamboo backscratchers from Thailand or toasters
from Brazil. Instead of buying imported rice, they might
decide to exercise their new financial freedom by feeding
chiefly on Australian vegemite. In a market economy, whether
America's or Japan's, the system depends on the people, not
the politicians, deciding what goods are in demand.
   But Mr. Miyazawa's televised reminder of free-market
principles drew a swift slap from the U.S. Undersecretary of
Commerce for International Trade, Michael Farren. Mr. Farren
said that unless Japan decided to "expeditiously move to meet
and exceed the goals," it could expect a "very negative
reaction" from the U.S.
   Small wonder, then, that the U.S. has been shrinking in
Japan's estimation. Mr. Miyazawa was rightly wondering
Tuesday, "What all the fuss is about?" And, apologizing for
the anti-American insults of Diet-member Mr. Sakurauchi,
Foreign Minister Michio Watanabe tendered an official
statement that reads like a get-well card: "I understand
labor productivity of American workers in general is quite
high, as is the literacy rate. I am aware that the U.S.
economy is sluggish now, and I hope it will recover as soon
as possible."
   We hope so too. It's a lingering sign of intelligence that
the U.S. administration wants to boost American
competitiveness and create those "jobs, jobs, jobs" that Mr.
Bush was touting in Asia. But for that, it's time to stop
counting car parts and trade ciphers and start counting on
the wisdom of market choices made by the Japanese and
American consumers.