International:
   Vanished Financier
   Is Gone, for Sure;
   But Is He Departed?
   ---
   Widow Called Grief-Stricken
   Over `Death' in Thailand;
   Others Have Good Laugh
   ----
   By Jose de Cordoba
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
For those U.S. clients who believe that Mr. Rubin
hoodwinked them and whose complaints have piled up with the
U.S. Embassy here and with investigators in the U.S., news of
Mr. Rubin's death seemed to cheat them of any chance of
reimbursement.
   Now, U.S. diplomats think reports of Mr. Rubin's death
were premature. They have looked into the claim by the
often-investigated financier's wife, Rachell Constante, that
Mr. Rubin died last July in a Buddhist monastery and drug
rehabilitation center in Thailand, where he had gone to break
his heavy pipe-smoking habit. Their report says that "unusual
behavior by the deceased and his putative widow, raise
questions of a possibly faked death or even foul play."
   Sitting in his dingy office, one flight up from a massage
parlor, Hector Zavala, one of Mr. Rubin's lawyers, sends a
somewhat mixed message. He says he hasn't communicated
recently with his client, who he believes is deceased. Still,
he adds: "If you see him, tell him to send the rest of the
money he owes me." Last year, Mr. Zavala, sued this reporter
on behalf of Mr. Rubin, then aged 59, for writing letters
inquiring about Mr. Rubin to people here. Subsequently, Mr.
Rubin was the subject of a front page Wall Street Journal
article last March.
   Mr. Zavala says his lawyer's honor means he must continue
the suit until his client, Mr. Rubin, or the court, tells him
otherwise.
   In Augusta, Ga., a Federal Bureau of Investigation agent,
who has been examining Mr. Rubin's Panamanian operations,
bursts out laughing when Mr. Rubin's death is mentioned.
"That investigation is continuing," says Special Agent R. T.
Smith. Meanwhile in New York, Wayne Lonstein, a lawyer for
Besicorp Group Inc., which is suing Mr. Rubin and others for
fraud, declares: "A lot of people would like to shake hands
with that corpse."
   Many of the people chasing Mr. Rubin or his ghost met him
in Panama, where he had moved from Denver in 1984. Mr. Rubin
quickly took to the tropics, befriending and going into
business with Mr. Rognoni, a politician who later became Gen.
Antonio Noriega's commerce minister. Mr. Rubin soon set up a
number of companies that took in millions of dollars by
charging front-end fees in return for promises to obtain
financing for desperate U.S. entrepeneurs. None of Mr.
Rubin's companies, which include Transnational Securities 
Investment Corp., and Morgan Gundy International S.A., ever
obtained any financing funds for their more than 200 clients.
   Mr. Rubin had a comfortable life in Panama. He hobnobbed
with top Noriega officials and lived in a luxury apartment
with a breathtaking view of the Pacific. He owned a vacation
house in Mexico and drove a wine-colored Jaguar. He was even
given a diplomatic passport and was made Panama's honorary
consul in Denver. Two years ago, Mr. Rubin married Ms.
Constante, a young Panamanian lawyer who did much of the
legal work for his companies.
   By all accounts, Mr. Rubin seemed to be at the top of his
form just before his death was announced. "He looked like a
million last time I saw him," recalls Michael Pierce, a
lawyer who knew him socially. "He was tanned. His eyes were
bright and blue." By that time the U.S. Embassy here had an
eight-inch thick file of complaints against Mr. Rubin's
companies and, in addition to the FBI, a Costa Rican
congressional committee had begun an investigation into his
large political contributions in that country, but Mr. Rubin
seemed unruffled. Mr. Rognoni says: "He wasn't worried."
   Whatever the case, before Mr. Rubin vanished, companies
with which he was associated moved out of luxurious offices
and either closed or scaled down their operations. According
to the U.S. Embassy report, Mr. Rubin, who has at least two
U.S. passports in addition to his Panamanian passort, entered
Thailand on May 20.
   On July 30, Ms. Constante appeared at the U.S. Embassy in
Bangkok. She reported that Mr. Rubin had died, and his
remains had been cremated. She requested a U.S. death
certificate.
   But diplomats were suspicious, in part because the Thai
death certificate gave the cause of death as: "various
complication disease unhealthy."
   The U.S. Embassy report says a monk at the rehabilitation
center where Mr. Rubin reportedly died, admitted he had filed
false death and cremation certificates.
   A search of Panama City's district courts found that no
relative or other interested party has requested a proceeding
to settle Mr. Rubin's estate. Mr. Rubin's only son, a
Washington lawyer from whom he is estranged, says he never
asked about his father's will and Ms. Constante never
mentioned it last year when she called to tell him Mr. Rubin
had died.
   Ms. Constante hasn't been seen much in Panama, but Mr.
Rognoni says she was grief-stricken. "If a shirt you were
wearing reminded her of one of Lloyd's, she would start
bawling," he recalls. "She was either convinced that he was
dead or she is the greatest actress in Panama."
   Mr. Rognoni, pacing beside his swimming pool, doesn't seem
to be much impressed. He suggests that his old friend may be
in Australia. "He simply retired," says Mr. Rognoni. "And now
his name is probably Jack Smith."