Signs of Life in New Zealand Economy
   ---
   Growth of Exports to Asia
   Puts Recovery on Track
   ----
   By S. Karene Witcher
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
"The recovery is on track," declares Prime Minister Jim
Bolger, who has been presiding over a shrinking economy since
his conservative National Party won office in October 1990.
Mr. Bolger stakes his forecast on the release of figures
earlier this month that showed the economy grew 1.3% in the
quarter ended Sept. 30, 1991. The upturn followed six
consecutive quarters of contraction. "I'm confident that in
fact we have turned the corner," the prime minister says.
   Ruth Richardson, the country's finance minister and top
economic policy maker, echoes Mr. Bolger's enthusiasm. "The
economy is at a turning point," she says. "It's an export-led
recovery."
   While some economists warn against proclaiming a recovery
based on the frequently revised quarterly data, Ms.
Richardson contends: "This isn't just a matter of one swallow
making a summer." As evidence she points to a big boost in
the merchandise-trade surplus and several surveys showing
that business is comfortable with the way the economy is
being run.
   The government reported the merchandise trade surplus for
January rose to 10 million New Zealand dollars (US$5.5
million) compared with a surplus of NZ$4.5 million in January
1991.
   New Zealanders have seen the pointers to recovery before,
only to watch economic growth evaporate. So what is to say
that this upturn is here to stay?
   Improvements to the nation's productivity distinguish the
current nascent recovery and give it "a lasting quality," Ms.
Richardson says. New Zealand, she says, can now compete on
world markets. And it is targeting its fast-growing neighbors
to the north. The number of Asian nations among New Zealand's
top-10 export markets has doubled to six in the past year.
   "This time around I think it is for real," David Ward,
chief economist of ANZ Banking Group Ltd. says of the
fledgling recovery. He, too, cites New Zealand's newfound
competitive edge as the economic engine.
   But Mr. Ward and others caution that any recovery will be
weak. Moreover, they warn that it won't touch many New
Zealanders, who have lived with a stagnant economy for five
years, anytime soon. That is because it will take time before
the export growth translates into higher personal incomes,
increased investment and more jobs. Unemployment stands at
11% and the government projects that it will climb to around
13% by March 1994.
   Private economists generally agree with government
predictions that the economy will grow by an annual average
of about 1.9% in the 12 months to March 31, 1993, and by
between 2.5% and 3% the next fiscal year. That compares with
an estimated expected contraction of 1.3% in the current year
and growth of 1% in the year ended March 31, 1991.
   The road to competitiveness began under the National
Party's political rivals, New Zealand's Labor Party. When
Labor won power in mid-1984, it took steps to transform the
country from one of the world's most protected economies into
one of the most open. By the time disgruntled voters threw it
out of office in October 1990, Labor had deregulated the
financial system and unshackled other industries such as
airlines and oil. It cut tariffs, all but abolished import
quotas and took away industry subsidies.
   It also "corporatized" many so-called state-owned
enterprises by making them operate more like private-sector
businesses and sold billions of dollars of government assets,
including the country's telephone company and its national
flag carrier, Air New Zealand.
   But other economic reforms weren't completed, such as the
deregulation of the labor market. Moreover, while Labor
implemented a program to wring inflation out of the economy,
it left a legacy of high interest rates and loose fiscal
policy.
   When the Nationals were elected to a three-year term in
late 1990, they immediately moved to deregulate the labor
market, which led to wage restraint, more flexiblity of
working conditions and hours, and thus higher productivity.
The party then attacked government spending mainly by
slashing welfare benefits, such as those for unemployment.
   Ms. Richardson promised to balance the government's budget
by June 1994. But she has had to abandon that goal for now. A
deeper-than-expected recession cut government revenue from
corporate tax. Public outcry forced the government to recant
on moves to tighten certain old-age pension benefits that
were aimed at cutting government outlays. The combination has
added NZ$1 billion to the original budget estimate for this
year of NZ$1.74 billion. Measured as a percentage of economic
output, though, government spending is falling.
   Economists and business generally aren't worried that the
government is veering from its stated tough economic course.
In Labor's last days, the business community was convinced
that the government had lost its way. So, it braced for at
least two more years of difficult economic restructuring that
it believed would be required to right the economy. Now, says
Roger Kerr, a spokesman for the New Zealand Business
Roundtable, "the evidence is becoming more clear that the
right things are being done and the {economic} outlook is
brighter."