Economy:
   Rostenkowski Outlines a Tax-Cut Plan
   For Firms, Middle Class, Some Gains
   ----
   By Jackie Calmes
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
It also would respond to the controversy over corporate
pay by limiting to $1 million the annual deduction a company
could take for an executive's salary.
   Committee Democrats discussed the options but made no
decisions. The panel was to meet again today to begin voting
on any alterations that lawmakers propose, and it could work
into the weekend. Democratic leaders, mindful of the March 20
deadline that President Bush set last month for action on a
variety of his proposals, want the full House to choose
between their plan and Mr. Bush's proposals by the end of
February.
   The permanent one-percentage-point cuts in the corporate
income tax to 33% and in the corporate alternative minimum
tax to 19% are Mr. Rostenkowski's substitute for President
Bush's proposal to offer business a temporary investment-tax
incentive. The Rostenkowski cuts would cost $17.1 billion
over six years -- 10 times the $1.7 billion cost of Mr.
Bush's proposed one-year 15% extra depreciation allowance for
equipment purchases.
   The across-the-board corporate tax cut potentially creates
a broader business coalition to help congressional Democrats
pass their tax package. It also would allow tax-writers to
avoid creating winners and losers among businesses if they
try to limit a tax break to certain industries. But the broad
cut disappointed those in ailing industries that invest
heavily in plant and equipment, who had hoped for an
investment incentive aimed at them.
   "With an across-the-board cut, you're putting cash in the
pocket of very profitable companies, and you dilute the
impact on those of us who really need a stimulant," said
Maxine Champion, a vice president of LTV Corp.
   The corporate pay provision, a response to a growing
controversy over executive salaries, would prohibit a company
from deducting more than $1 million a year for an executive's
compensation -- including salary, bonus and other incentives.
The provision, which would raise an estimated $1.9 billion
over six years, would apply only to corporate officers; it
wouldn't apply to employee-owners of service corporations or
to employees who didn't function as administrators or
executives.
   The Rostenkowski package's $90.9 billion six-year cost
dwarfs the projected $53.7 billion cost of the president's
complete tax proposals as estimated by Congress's Joint
Committee on Taxation. The chairman's more generous proposal
for a tax cut for the middle class and the proposed corporate
rate cut account for much of the difference. Unlike Mr. Bush,
Rep. Rostenkowski proposes to pay the entire cost with tax
increases, rather than adding to the deficit.
   However, Mr. Bush and congressional Republicans aren't
backing the president's entire tax package but a streamlined
seven-point plan. It omits the costly middle-class tax cut
and costs $6.6 billion by the administration's estimate,
$31.3 billion by the Joint Committee's. The disparity stems
mainly from differences in calculating the impact of Mr.
Bush's proposal to cut the top capital-gains tax rate to
15.4% from 28%. Democrats count that as a revenue loser,
Republicans as a revenue raiser.
   Republicans are livid about the plan by Democrats to put
the entire Bush package to a House vote, in an attempt to
dramatize that even members of the president's party don't
like parts of it. The anger was reflected yesterday in White
House spokesman Marlin Fitzwater's condemnation of the Ways
and Means Democrats. "These guys are like weasels going into
a hole; you've got to wait and see where they come out," he
said, adding, "we're going to be very tough with the
Democrats who are trying to pull these games."
   Although Democratic leaders have long condemned Mr. Bush's
proposed capital-gains tax cut as a bonanza for the rich, Mr.
Rostenkowski bowed to those Democrats who support it by
proposing a three-prong rate reduction targeted for
middle-income individuals and those who invest in new small
businesses.
   The lower rates would apply only to individuals, not
businesses. One provision would allow taxpayers with incomes
below $100,000 to exclude from taxation 30% of the gains from
the sale of assets bought at a future date and held for at
least a year. The tax cut would begin to be phased out for
taxpayers with annual income above $100,000, disappearing
entirely for those making $150,000 or more. The provision
wouldn't apply to gains from the sale of collectibles.
   For existing assets, taxpayers could pay the lower rate on
gains up to a lifetime cap of $80,000.
   Separately, to encourage investments in small businesses,
the proposal would allow an exclusion for 40% of the gains
from new stock in companies with gross assets of $100 million
or less. The stock would have to be held at least five years
before it was sold.
   Other highlights of the Rostenkowski plan include:
   -- A tax credit of as much as $200 an individual and $400
a couple annually for two years, based on the taxpayers'
payroll-tax liability for Social Security and Medicare. The
two-year tax break would cost $45.9 billion. Some committee
members, notably Rep. Thomas Downey (D., N.Y.), want a more
generous credit for each child that a taxpayer has.
   -- A combination of tax increases on upper-income
individuals to raise about $75 billion over six years. Most
of that would come from a new fourth tax bracket of 35% for
individuals with taxable income of at least $85,000 and
couples with at least $145,000. Those income thresholds are
considered too low by a number of Democrats who are fearful
of voting for a tax increase unless it clearly hits only the
very rich. Their fear is compounded by the fact that the tax
increases would be permanent, while the proposed middle-class
tax cut ends after two years.
   The proposal also calls for a 10% surtax on millionaires,
bringing their top rate in effect to about 38%, and an
increase in the alternative minimum tax for individuals to
25% from 24%. Existing limits on the deductions and personal
exemptions that upper-income taxpayers can take would be
extended two years, through 1997.
   -- A proposal, like one in Mr. Bush's plan, to allow early
withdrawals without tax penalty from Individual Retirement
Accounts for purchases of a first home, major medical costs
or college tuition. Unlike Mr. Bush, Rep. Rostenkowski didn't
propose a credit for the purchase of a first home; Mr. Bush
wants a $5,000 credit, at a cost of $5.2 billion, according
to Treasury estimates.
   -- Another provision borrowed from Mr. Bush to restore the
"passive loss" deductions on real estate, but primarily for
people who have built or renovated properties. Rep.
Rostenkowski proposed to offset the $2.4 billion, six-year
cost with a new provision extending the period in which
owners can write off the value of commercial real estate to
40 years, up from 31 1/2 years.
   -- Permanent extensions of several popular tax breaks for
business. The costliest, at $7.8 billion through fiscal 1997,
is a tax credit for research and experimentation expenses,
also supported by Mr. Bush. Other provisions make permanent
tax incentives for low-income housing, mortgage revenue
bonds, employer-provided educational aid, and hiring the
disadvantaged.
   -- Repeal of a 10% luxury tax on yachts, airplanes,
jewelry and furs above certain prices. The tax, approved in
1990, has been the subject of furious lobbying by affected
businesses, which claim a loss of sales and, in turn, jobs.
In a blow to the import-car industry, Rep. Rostenkowski
didn't propose to repeal the luxury levy on cars priced above
$30,000. Expensive autos account for most of the revenue
generated by the luxury tax. He did propose to index the
$30,000 threshold for inflation, as U.S. car makers wanted;
because domestic models generally are less costly than the
foreign variety, indexing would exempt many of them from the
tax.
   -- A requirement, as Mr. Bush proposed, that securities
inventories be taxed at market value as opposed to their
original cost. That would raise $2.5 billion. Inclusion of
the proposal was a setback for the securities industry. In
contrast, the draft doesn't include Mr. Bush's proposed tax
increases on annuities and corporate-owned life insurance,
also the object of intense lobby opposition.
   -- A ban on "double-dipping" by thrifts. This is aimed at
stopping purchasers of troubled savings-and-loans from taking
deductions for losses at those institutions that already have
been made up by the U.S.
   -- A new 14-year write-off for "intangible" assets, such
as customer lists or the value of a company's reputation.