Letters to the Editor:
   What Is Art, and Who Says So?
History is full of examples of art that were considered
radical, immoral or without artistic merit when first
presented, but today are considered national treasures. In
this kind of atmosphere, if Michelangelo hauled his statue of
"David" around the streets of an American city today, as he
did 500 years ago in Florence, he probably would be arrested
for obscenity. It is sad that the media are so full of need
to make headlines out of small, artistic gestures from a few
individuals that a program that helps thousands of artists
and art organizations can be in jeopardy.
   The whole point about art is that artists will never do
what you want them to do. That is why they sometimes create
great art. That is why so many people go to galleries,
museums, theaters and bookstores.
   Eric Rudd
   Artist
   North Adams, Mass.
   ---
   In your Feb. 24 Asides "Are You for Urine Art?" and your
Feb. 26 lead editorial, you lend credence to the arguments of
some artists by accepting that their "installations,"
"performance pieces" and sundry concoctions are indeed art.
Urinating and smearing chocolate over one's naked body are
not "artistic specialties," as your phrasing implies. And
this is not territory in which it pays to be tongue in cheek.
Art is an intelligible, crafted product that seeks to express
insights or values in a work that re-creates some aspect of
human experience. As such, art performs a crucial function.
Urinating, however, takes no intelligence and no craft,
represents no human value or achievement (except perhaps at
the stage of potty training) and says nothing about anything.
   This prattling, prancing bunch of charlatans does not
produce art, by any definition of the term. The most
cherished grant of all comes not from the NEA but from those
of us who continue to bestow the exalted mantle of "artist"
on these shysters.
   J. Peter Saint-Andre
   Atlanta
   ---
   The point is not whether to support artists who use urine
or chocolate in their art, but to promote the freedom of art.
Only because it has received so much press has art become an
issue. Now it is an important issue, because the state should
support art and culture without dictating its parameters. Who
is to decide what art is? Neither the Senate nor the
Guggenheim should be put in the position to dictate another's
choice. If one does not like it, one really does not have to
see it. And if one ignores it, it will go away. Art makes its
own politics, and people give art meaning, so decide for
yourself, not for anyone else. Morals are not a problem in
this country, but politics might be.
   Katherine Long
   Washington
   ---
   I imagine the good folks at the Cincinnati art museum were
rather amazed to discover in your Feb. 26 editorial that they
had sponsored Robert Mapplethorpe's now-famed homoerotic
exhibit. The exhibit was shown at the Contempory Arts Center
and only a small portion was funded by the NEA.
   Perhaps it is unfortunate that those who have been most
vocal in their condemnation of the exhibit never saw the
exhibit. To paraphrase a Supreme Court justice: "I can't
define obscenity, but I can sure tell obscenity when someone
tells me about it." I can't say I was wild about some of the
explicit pictures, but they were clearly separated from the
bulk of the show. Many of the photographs were clearly works
of serious art and deserved to be shown.
   John Nellis
   Fairfield, Ohio