Technology  Health:
   Chiron's Drug for Kidney Cancer Heads
   For Approval, but Sales May Be Limited
   ----
   By Marilyn Chase
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Already approved in Europe at prices up to $9,000 per
treatment, IL-2's final market clearance must come from the
office of FDA Commissioner David Kessler. The commissioner
isn't bound by panel recommendations, but they are typically
given great weight.
   Chiron shares, already buoyed by a market evidently
expecting success, rose to $72 before settling down to close
at $69, up 25 cents a share. Chiron acquired the IL-2 product
last month when it bought the drug's developer, Cetus Corp.,
for stock valued at $650 million. Both biotechnology
companies are based in Emeryville, Calif.
   "We're obviously pleased," said Chiron President Edward
Penhoet. "We expected this result, but you can never be
sure." Chiron's marketing plans for IL-2 include intensive
training on how to mute the drug's side effects, and boost a
patient's chances of benefit.
   Current European sales of IL-2 run $15 million a year, and
he forecast that its initial U.S. market could double that.
IL-2 is a genetically engineered copy of a natural human
protein which boosts the numbers and the tumor-fighting power
of white blood cells.
   IL-2, not yet priced in the U.S., sells in Europe for
$7,000 to $9,000 per course of treatment. Because patients
must take IL-2 under the close monitoring of an intensive
care unit, the cost of hospitalization will boost total cost
to $30,000 to $45,000 per treatment. Patients who respond
well to IL-2 often take a second or even a third course of
the drug -- doubling or tripling the ultimate bill.
   For some 20,000 patients newly diagnosed with kidney
cancer each year in the U.S., IL-2 represents a weapon that
is distinctly double-edged: high risk but also potentially
high reward. About 60% of kidney cancer metastasizes or
spreads beyond its original site, leaving patients with no
cure and a dismal prognosis of six to 12 months. Studies
presented at Friday's hearing indicate those odds are
starting to improve.
   Of 255 patients studied, Chiron researchers said at the
hearing that IL-2 made tumors shrink or disappear in 37
patients, or 15%. That included nine patients, or 4%, who
went into complete remission. The good responses have lasted
nearly two years on average, and eight of the nine patients
in complete remission remain cancer-free. But 11 patients
died from side effects of treatment, mostly lethal heart and
lung problems provoked by the stress of massive fluid
retention in the body.
   "Approval of IL-2 represents an important step in the
development of immunotherapy," said Eugene Schonfeld,
president of the National Kidney Cancer Association. Mr.
Schonfeld had lectured the FDA panel on its "moral
obligation" to approve IL-2. He held the panel partly
accountable for some 15,750 kidney cancer deaths that
occurred since it declined to sanction sale of the drug back
in June 1990.
   But the cool scholarly presentation by Chiron was much
more persuasive than Cetus's heated and impetuous bid for
approval 18 months ago. FDA panel chairman Jerome Groopman of
Harvard University this time called the clinical responses
"impressive and {not} anecdotal." Even though the drug has
yet to lengthen lifespans for most patients, it offers vivid
hope for a few. Pioneering IL-2 researcher Steven Rosenberg
of the National Cancer Institute documented some graphic
recoveries with slides of bulky tumors melting away to a
shadow or less.
   It wasn't enough for the lone dissenter in Friday's 7-1
vote. "I remain unconvinced," said Ernest Borden of the
Medical College of Wisconsin. He noted the drug's difficult
risk-benefit ratio: "twice as many patients suffered severe
neurological toxicity . . . as those who responded
favorably."
   "IL-2 isn't a cure," said National Cancer Institute
Director Samuel Broder in an interview. Still, he noted,
winning rare and difficult remissions among patients once
deemed incurable, is an important step. The FDA panel's vote
validates a decade of federally sponsored research, he added.
   Dr. Penhoet confirmed Chiron's intent to build on IL-2's
initial niche, expanding it into new uses for other cancers
and infectious diseases, such as acquired immune deficiency
syndrome. IL-2 is currently being tested in melanoma and
AIDS, and in combination with a variety of tumor-fighting
cells, though the executive didn't forecast how soon Chiron
might seek the FDA's nod.