LEISURE  ARTS -- Bookshelf:
   Cosa Sua: Annals of One Man's Family
   ----
   By James Bowman
At times the pretense that the Talese family figures
significantly in world history becomes rather tiresome. The
capture of the Napoleonic king of Naples, Joachim Murat, is
included because it was observed from behind a bush by his
great-great-great-grandmother. His first cousin once removed
participated in the Italian retreat from Caporetto in World
War I, and so we are reminded of Hemingway's account of that
battle in "A Farewell to Arms" and of "one young German
lieutenant" who captured 8,000 Italian soldiers that day.
"His name," says Mr. Talese dramatically, "was Erwin Rommel."
   There is no record of his father's cousin's ever having
met either Hemingway or Rommel, but their being at the same
place at the same time is more than enough to make a
portentous connection. Sometimes all it takes is an Italian
name that we are likely to have heard of:
   "Italo-Americans served with Allied units that conquered
the ancestral hometowns of American families named Iacocca
and Cuomo, Ferraro and D'Amato and Auletta, and of a future
rock singer surnamed Ciccone who would become known as
Madonna." At least he doesn't claim a relative in the bushes
watching Madonna's first gyrations.
   Still, all the massive accumulation of detail does not
entirely suffocate the Talese story. Sometimes you may detect
a note of what I prefer to see as gentle self-mockery, as in
his account of the military career of his great-grandfather's
farm foreman's father, Antonio Bevivino, who had fought with
Napoleon: "In 1812, Antonio invaded Russia . . ." But you
have to put up with rather a lot of similar sentences
unleavened by humor: "The Italy that Joseph had left behind
was about to succumb to the rhetorical flair and fascist
political policies of a strong-willed Milan newspaper
publisher and one-time schoolmaster, Benito Mussolini." Do
tell]
   Yet the real value of the book is not in its fund of facts
nor in its historical sweep but in its testimony on behalf of
cultural continuity. In other words, you can take the family
out of Italy but you can't take Italy out of the family. When
Mr. Talese's great-grandfather Domenico was about to be
married in 1868, he was told by his sister of a supposed
family curse -- because their own grandfather, Pasquale,
might have been fathered by a priest. Domenico took the
allegation so seriously that he spent five months
investigating it in Pasquale's birthplace, Benevento,
northeast of Naples and a considerable distance from his home
of Maida in the far south.
   He could find no conclusive evidence either way, but just
to be on the safe side he arranged to be married on the 10th
anniversary of his parents' death in a rock slide -- in order
to show "obeisance to the wrath of the Lord" and respect to
the dead, who might otherwise visit a curse upon his
children. His wife-to-be was not happy about this arrangement
and ever after became the family skeptic in the face of
Domenico's fearful piety. Years later, she foiled a group of
gypsies posing as nuns who would have played upon Domencio's
credulity to steal her jewels.
   Yet Domenico's modern American descendant is able to
sympathize with him, torn as he was between his bride's
displeasure at seeing mourning on her wedding day and his
sister's fear of the dark powers of the dead over the living.
Mr. Talese sees his great-grandfather as "an uncertain man
trapped between the loyalties of the past and those of the
present," but the words might as well apply to himself, and
to his reasons for writing this book.
   Once when Mr. Talese's father, Joseph, thought himself
unfairly chastised by his grandfather for an act of
carelessness in his uncle's tailor's shop, Domenico had said
to him: "People who do not love you make you laugh. People
who love you make you cry." It is a melancholy, pessimistic,
Old World way of looking at families, but after Joseph grew
up and emigrated to America he found himself saying the same
thing to his son, the author, after destroying all the
latter's model airplanes in a rage of grief at the Allied
bombing of Monte Cassino in 1944: "Those who love you make
you cry . . ."
   The book can be seen as Gay Talese's extended attempt to
understand both his father's actions and his words.
   ---
   Mr. Bowman is the American editor of TLS of London.