Bush Budget Strategy of Forcing Cuts
   Aims to Bash Congress, Thwart Clinton
   ----
   By Michel McQueen
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
In a speech Friday to mark Mr. Bush's deadline for
adoption of his proposed tax plan, the president issued his
most stinging attack on the Democratic-controlled Congress
yet, portraying the institution as inept, stagnant and
bordering on corrupt. He said Congress's refusal to pass his
tax plan reflects "a deeper systemic problem that is gnawing
at the strength of our nation" and suggested that Congress
has fundamentally lost control of itself and its purpose.
   And at the same time, Mr. Bush's advisers hope to put Mr.
Clinton, the expected Democratic presidential nominee, in the
uncomfortable position of having to stand with or reject the
increasingly unpopular Congress.
   "It's a two-step process. First Congress is tagged as the
obstacle to the president and an agent of the status quo," a
senior administration official said over the weekend. With
that accomplished, the administration "wants to force Clinton
to ally himself with them or us," he said.
   Mr. Bush has proposed spending cuts on 68 projects for
which lawmakers have already approved $3.6 billion in
funding. The bulk of the money would come from the Seawolf
submarine program, which the administration already tried to
cancel, and from funds to build new public housing. The rest
of the proposed cuts mainly target an array of agriculture
programs.
   While Democratic leaders scoffed at the list as a control
on "pork-barrel spending" -- pointing out both big-ticket
items represent policy disputes with Congress rather than
funding for pet projects -- Republican supporters of the
president said it's only the first set in a list of 1,300
such proposals to be brought before Congress.
   A group of GOP lawmakers has already pledged to help Mr.
Bush enforce the strategy by exercising a little-used House
rule to demand regular votes on each program, forcing
lawmakers to go on record to support the project or risk
losing them in the face of public ridicule.
   "They're a symptom of the problem," White House Budget
Director Richard Darman said on ABC News's "This Week With
David Brinkley." He acknowledged that the cuts are "small in
the grand scheme of things," but "they've got to be addressed
because they represent a lack of integrity in the current
budgetary process."
   In language borrowed from his campaign announcement
speech, Mr. Bush said he is taking action because "government
is too big and it costs too much." But behind the action is
an attempt to take advantage of the public's historically low
regard for Congress as an institution, in the wake of
problems involving the House Bank and the House post office.
It is also an effort to shift the blame to lawmakers for what
the public sees as Mr. Bush's own lack of progress on
domestic issues.
   But for all the rhetoric, only a small fraction of Mr.
Bush's programs address pork-barrel projects, and some of
these were sponsored by Republican lawmakers who are called
upon to support Mr. Bush in Congress. Democrats, moreover,
have already indicated their intention to highlight what they
view as Mr. Bush's own election year gift-giving to favorite
constituencies, such as a $514 million wetlands project he
announced in Florida before the primary there and an
acceleration of small business assistance he delivered to New
Hampshire in January.
   "It takes a lot of nerve for the president to criticize
someone else on pork when he has just traveled the country
handing out hundreds of millions of dollars in those states
with contested primaries," said Senate Majority Leader George
Mitchell (D., Maine).
   The lion's share of Mr. Bush's first round of cuts, $2.95
billion, would come from carrying out already announced plans
to end the Seawolf SSN-21 submarine program and cut
previously appropriated funds for the second and third of
these vessels to be built by a General Dynamics Corp. unit in
Connecticut.
   Among domestic programs, the administration proposes
cutting $547.7 million from public housing, which would wipe
out almost all of what Congress allocated to build 7,500
units of public housing. Though the cut is significant, it
represents a longstanding policy dispute between lawmakers
who want to continue building public housing and
administration officials who prefer to give vouchers to poor
people to help them buy private housing.
   Among the president's examples, the ones that are "pork"
in the traditional sense amount to only about $100 million.
Many of these were culled from the Agriculture Department's
budget -- including projects on asparagus yield decline,
eastern filbert blight and low-bush blueberry research --
that the administration hopes to use to embarrass lawmakers
who vote for them.
   Historically, Congress has often disagreed with
rescissions -- as cuts of previously approved programs are
called -- recommended by presidents, but had to come up with
cuts of its own. Since the rescission process began in the
mid-1970s, cuts of $61.6 billion have been proposed by
various administrations. Congress has accepted only about a
third of these, but then added cuts so that over the same
period it has rescinded about $55.77 billion, or roughly 90%
of the total dollar savings sought by the White House,
according to figures cited by the House and Senate
appropriations committees and certified by the General
Accounting Office.
   In addition to the list of spending cuts he proposed
Friday, Mr. Bush called for changes in campaign-finance laws,
unspecified term limits for lawmakers, and for Congress to
subject itself to employment laws from which it is currently
exempt.
   Mr. Bush also announced steps to enforce a Supreme Court
decision allowing workers to withhold union dues for purposes
other than collective bargaining, such as funding political
action committees. Mr. Bush said he will sign an executive
order requiring that workers on government contracts be
informed of their rights.
   ---
   David Rogers contributed to this article.