Advisory Panel
   To Treasury Urged
   No Cut in Auction
   ----
   By John Connor
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Before the auction, the panel bluntly told the Treasury
that the public debate over cutting back 30-year bonds "has
not worked to Treasury's benefit." It said that "any material
change at this time runs the risk of being viewed as
politically motivated, undoing the gains earned over the
years that routine and consistency have contributed in
reducing the `uncertainty premium' in Treasury issues." It
also said market speculation over a long bond reduction
already had contributed to an increase in short-term interest
rates.
   Treasury Secretary Nicholas Brady has said he was
satisfied with the market response to the Treasury's February
decision. Interest rates fell the day it was announced. Some
economists in and out of the government and some members of
Congress had urged the move as a way to pull down stubbornly
high long-term interest rates.
   On another matter, the advisory panel raised the specter
of a "failed" auction if the Treasury institutes its proposal
to shift to an ascending-price open auction method of selling
its debt. The department plans to begin experimenting with
the proposal next year after its auction process is fully
automated. An auction is considered failed when the issuer
receives insufficient bids to cover the issue. Treasury's
last failed auction came some 20 years ago.
   The 19-member borrowing committee, formally known as the
Treasury Borrowing Advisory Committee of the Public
Securities Association, meets with Treasury officials before
each quarterly refunding and provides advice on the
refundings and other debt management matters. In a reform bid
arising out of the Salomon Brothers Inc. scandal, the
Treasury now releases the committee's reports a month after
the meetings.
   The panel, currently chaired by Morgan Stark, a managing
director of Chemical Bank, noted that the deficit for this
fiscal year is projected at $400 billion, and said reducing
borrowing in any one maturity "only further increases the
burden on others." It pointed out other debt issuers, rather
than reducing the maturity structure of their debt, are
moving to extend the average life of their debt. And it
cautioned that "shifting a greater portion of financing to
intermediate maturities would, in fact, put Treasury in more
direct competition with business and mortgage borrowers."