Letters to the Editor:
   There's No Proof Oswald Acted Alone
Mr. Belin's own credentials are questionable. He
identifies himself as possessing "more firsthand knowledge
about the key witnesses and physical evidence of the
assassination of President Kennedy than anyone else." But Mr.
Belin was not even one of the commission's six senior
counsels, who worked under a chief counsel (J. Lee Rankin)
and a deputy counsel. Mr. Belin was an assistant counsel,
working on a $75-a-day consultancy basis for about three
months between March and July 1964. The chapter in the report
he co-authored on the identification of the assassin was
found "inadequate" and was rewritten in July by the deputy
counsel, Norman Redlich. Mr. Belin's "firsthand knowledge,"
while impressive, was hardly unique. He interviewed some two
dozen witnesses, but that was only a minute fraction of the
25,000 interviews of the assassination-related witnesses
conducted by the FBI (which was the main investigative
agency).
   Nor was he privy to the Warren Commission executive
sessions. If he had been, he could not have so cavalierly
rejected The Wall Street Journal editorial's suggestion that
the Warren Commission "was less intent on truth than in
unifying the nation."
   In his effort to dismiss my book as "conspiratorial," Mr.
Belin resorts to outright fabrication. He falsely attributes
to it the position that Oswald did not shoot the Dallas
policeman J.D. Tippit, and then claims it "ignores the
massive weight of the evidence that shows Oswald killed
Tippit." In point of fact, "Inquest" concluded that Oswald
shot Tippit. It explicitly states that the chain of evidence
the commission developed identifying Oswald as the assassin
was "compelling" (page 85 and page 151). It reasons that
Oswald's post-assassination "shooting of police officer J.D.
Tippit" precludes the possibility that Oswald was framed in
the Kennedy assassination. Moreover, I included the FBI
summary report on the relevant evidence.
   Despite Mr. Belin's tactics, I agree with him on many
points. Jim Garrison's pseudo-investigation into the
assassination in New Orleans was not only a farce but a
despicable misuse of prosecutorial power (which I wrote about
in 1967 in my book "Counterplot"). Oliver Stone's film "JFK"
is, in the best tradition of Costa-Gavras's "Z" or Orson
Welles's radio dramatization of "War of the Worlds," a work
of fiction brilliantly disguised as a "documentary." The
issue that gave rise to both cannot be so easily dispatched.
The Warren Commission established impressive evidence that
Oswald was an assassin, as Mr. Belin points out, but it
failed to establish that Oswald acted alone, and that is why,
28 years after the event, a movie like "JFK" has captured
such attention.
   Edward Jay Epstein
   New York
   ---
   I disagree with Mr. Belin's position. But rather than
rehash old theories, I quote radio commentator Lynn Samuels:
   "America is the only country with lone, deranged gunmen.
In every other country, leaders are killed by organized coups
working with orchestrated plans. America is the only country
where political leaders are killed by lone gunmen with
psychiatric histories."
   Bob Makarowski
   New York
   ---
   Mr. Belin basically purports to know more about the
Kennedy assassination than anyone else on the planet. If that
is the case, perhaps he could answer a few questions that
have clouded the conclusions of the Warren Commission to this
day:
   Why did the chief pathologist decide to burn his autopsy
notes shortly after the examination? As a federal employee, I
realize government workers can sometimes misplace important
documents. But burning the autopsy notes about the president
of the United States?] Clearly this wins the award for
government stupidity.
   Speaking of misplacing things, President Kennedy's brain
has mysteriously vanished from the National Archives
building, and no one seems to know where it went. Surely this
valuable piece of evidence would be able to vindicate the
Warren Commission's conclusion that the president was shot
from behind.
   I'm not even going to discuss the ludicrousness of the
"magic bullet theory," or the fact that more than a few
witnesses at Dealy Plaza heard shots coming from the infamous
grassy knoll. Mr. Belin could easily produce counterpoints to
those claims. But the above two questions remain unanswered.
These two crucial pieces of evidence, which could close the
book on this tragic and macabre episode of American history,
have vanished under highly mysterious circumstances. To this
date, no one, not even Mr. Belin, has come forth with
satisfactory answers to these questions.
   Anthony J. Mocenigo
   Washington