For Biotech, Pure Genius Isn't Enough
   ----
   By David Stipp and Udayan Gupta
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
The biotechnology industry appears poised for rapid growth
as it moves into its second decade. It has shown it can
deliver marvelous drugs and captivate Wall Street, and by
some estimates, the industry's revenues will jump sevenfold
to $40 billion by the end of the decade. It has the support
of the Bush administration, which last month proposed a $4
billion program to boost biotechnology research.
   "Biotechnology proved itself in the '80s," says John
Wilkerson, a New York health-care industry consultant. "The
'90s are going to be the testing ground for individual
companies."
   Many new biotech companies are already being tested by the
stock market. It isn't unusual for a company to lose -- or
gain -- a chunk of its market value in one day. Wednesday,
Centocor Inc. plunged $8.125 to $33.125 because of questions
from the Food and Drug Administration about its septic shock
drug. Yet on Jan. 13, Enzo Biochem Inc. shares jumped 77%
after the company introduced eight new cancer diagnostic
products.
   So far, only a few biotechnology companies, such as Amgen
Inc., have made money. Indeed, the industry is gushing more
red ink than ever: For the year ended June 30, losses swelled
45% to $2.9 billion from a year earlier, according to Ernst 
Young, an accounting firm.
   Those losses underscore the fact that the great majority
of the industry's players are still high-risk,
development-stage companies that could easily scramble their
new nest eggs. "A lot of very young companies suddenly got
plenty of money," says Jean Deleage, a San Francisco venture
capitalist. "Now they have to demonstrate they have the
discipline to spend it wisely."
   The science behind the business is advancing so fast that
research and development costs threaten to absorb much of the
money the industry has raised. To survive, companies will
have to focus their development efforts much more than in the
past. But even businesses that find seasoned managers to plot
strategy and see products through to market may find
themselves pinched not only by competition, but also by
government and insurance industry efforts to hold down
health-care costs.
   Younger companies will have to show that "their
technologies work and that they can successfully turn them
into effective products," says Dr. Wilkerson, the consultant.
For more mature businesses, the challenges will include
funding enormously expensive clinical trials while building
manufacturing and sales operations. All will be jockeying for
talented managers, patents, corporate partners, regulatory
approvals and ever more capital.
   "It was inordinately easier a decade ago to pick the
Centocors and Amgens of the world" before they emerged as
industry leaders, says Peter Drake, an analyst at Vector
Securities International. "The companies were simpler, their
technologies were easier to understand, and their competition
was much easier to assess."
   The industry's scientific explosion further complicates
the picture. Bioengineered drugs are already used to treat
anemia, immune-system suppression induced by anti-cancer
drugs, dwarfism in children, hepatitis and heart attacks. A
host of other products are being tested in the clinic,
including drugs to kill cancer cells without hurting normal
ones and to prevent blood clots that can cause strokes and
heart attacks. In the lab are crop plants genetically
engineered to resist pests, drugs to block the genetic
malfunctions underlying cancer, bioengineered microbes that
consume toxic wastes and medicines to arrest disorders of
aging, such as Alzheimer's disease.
   More than 100 biotechnology drugs are in clinical trials,
and many will compete for shares of the same markets. About
10 categories of novel drugs are under development to treat
autoimmune disorders such as rheumatoid arthritis and
multiple sclerosis, says David Stone, an analyst with Cowen 
Co.
   One key to navigating this flood of products is for
companies to "focus," says Vector's Mr. Drake. Amgen's
success, he adds, stems largely from a mid-1980s decision by
the company's founder and former chairman, George Rathmann,
who "looked at Amgen's pipeline of products and its cash and
said, `We can't do all this stuff.' He directed the entire
company to focus on EPO," the company's lucrative anti-anemia
drug that now stands alone in its niche.
   In the industry's early days, the main strategy was to "go
with what science you have and hope you can get there first,"
adds Stephen Duzan, chief executive and founder of Immunex
Corp., a biotechnology company based in Seattle. But now
businesses must be more selective, placing a smaller number
of bets by carefully analyzing patent positions and market
potential, which involves not just a drug's therapeutic value
but also how likely the federal government and other health
insurers are to pay for it.
   In an industry whose products can cost $100 million each
to develop, companies that don't focus early can quickly get
overextended. Consider NeoRx Corp., a Seattle company started
in 1984 to develop antibody-based diagnostic and anti-cancer
agents. It has requested federal marketing approval for two
diagnostic products and has four cancer therapeutic and
diagnostic agents in clinical trials. But it has yet to sell
a product, and its losses have mounted steadily, totaling
more than $54 million in its first six years.
   With a cash crunch looming, NeoRx in the last two years
has drastically narrowed its research and development
activities, limiting product development to the imaging and
anti-cancer areas. It also has decided to license its first
products to outside companies rather than to further develop
them in-house. The result: a reduction of its work force by
about 40% and a drop in its "burn rate" -- how fast companies
use up cash -- by more than a third to between $10 million
and $11 million.
   Another lesson from biotechnology's first decade is the
importance of installing hardheaded executives early.
Companies "need to hire managers who have the skills to
direct a full-service drug company, not just a research
boutique," says Dr. Wilkerson, the consultant.
   Perhaps two-thirds of biotechnology companies are trying
to recruit senior executives and business development
professionals, says Mr. Deleage, the venture capitalist.
Walter Channing of CW Ventures, a New York venture capital
firm, adds, "The key ingredient is increasingly becoming the
star manager, not the star molecule."
   But not even a crack management team can guarantee that a
biotechnology company's well-laid plans won't go astray. Some
of the industry's biggest uncertainties stem from the battle
to cut health-care costs. Government decisions on whether to
pay costs of new drugs for patients covered by Medicare and
other programs can be critical to the drugs' success. Because
genetically engineered drugs tend to be costly -- commonly
several thousand dollars for a course of treatment -- they
have become lightning rods for criticism by those seeking to
hold down such costs. "Five to eight years from now, we'll be
looking at a very different cost and reimbursement
environment" for drugs, says Linda Miller, an analyst with
PaineWebber Inc.
   Indeed, the fear of tightened reimbursement rules for
drugs already has some companies shying away from disease
areas considered non-life-threatening. Immunex is pulling
back in certain woundhealing areas. Though there's a
significant market for companies that can help speed wound
healing, the expense of developing such drugs and the prices
that will be considered reasonable for them "will make it
harder to recover costs" than for drugs to treat fatal
diseases, says Mr. Duzan.
   Reimbursement policy isn't the only front on which
biotechnology companies are feeling the heat from rocketing
health-care costs. A bill recently introduced in Congress
would cap sales of drugs under the federal Orphan Drug Act.
The law now allows companies that develop drugs for diseases
afflicting fewer than 200,000 people to be granted exclusive
marketing rights to the drugs for seven years. The proposed
cap would revoke the exclusivity when cumulative sales of an
orphan drug exceed $200 million.
   The bill, if enacted, would undercut the ability of
biotechnology companies to finance drug development, says
Henri Termeer, chief executive of Genzyme Corp., a
biotechnology concern in Cambridge, Mass., that's developing
treatments for cystic fibrosis with orphan drug status. In
particular, Mr. Termeer argues, the bill would curtail the
use of "off-balance-sheet" financing for such drugs -- an
increasingly popular strategy in which companies form
publicly traded research subsidiaries to develop the drugs.
Many investors buy shares in such spinoffs partly because the
risks are balanced by the potentially large payoffs for
products with orphan drug status, he says.
   Mr. Termeer's arguments highlight biotechnology's
expanding need for capital as it pushes more products into
the costly clinical trial phase. Many biotechnology companies
are seeking partnerships that will further their goals of
becoming big, independent drug companies. In the past, the
companies often had little choice but to trade technology for
money in licensing pacts with drug-company partners. But now
the industry's basic technology has been validated by the
successful launch of blockbuster drugs. Last year's
stock-selling bonanza also has strengthened their hands.
   For three-year-old Isis Pharmaceuticals Inc., which raised
$72 million last year, the funds mean "more flexibility and
say in how and with whom we will do deals," says founder
Stanley Crooke. Isis doesn't have to continually flog its
technology in presentations to potential partners -- a
process that's very time-consuming for company scientists,
Mr. Crooke adds. And it has the luxury of holding out until
it finds allies that bring both money and other competitive
advantages to the company.
   True collaborations, rather than just trades of technology
for money, are on the rise between biotechnology companies
and their bigger partners. When ImmuLogic Pharmaceutical
Corp., Cambridge, Mass., recently agreed to develop its
anti-allergy technology with Marion Merrell Dow Inc., a
Kansas City, Mo., drug concern, the companies formed a
committee of managers from each side to oversee the work.
ImmuLogic also retained U.S. rights to market products based
on the research.
   The secret to successful collaborations is to "make sure
you have a champion at the larger company who believes in
your product," says Ramesh Ratan, senior vice president at
Repligen Corp., a Cambridge, Mass., biotechnology concern.
And if the partnership doesn't work out, consider buying the
technology back from the larger company before the project
dies on the vine.
   Last year Repligen reacquired rights from Merck  Co. to
certain monoclonal antibodies for fighting AIDS infections.
Merck and Repligen wanted to pursue different uses for the
technology, Mr. Ratan says. Moreover, Merck had licensed
similar antibodies from another biotechnology concern,
Medimmune Inc., indicating the larger company's interest in
Repligen's antibodies had fallen.
   Partnerships between biotech and drug companies sometimes
unravel because of clashes between big-company and
small-company operating styles. But that's less of a problem
with a growing variation on the partnership theme:
collaborations between biotechnology companies. Last year,
such partnerships accounted for about half of U.S.
pharmaceutical research alliances, according to Ernst 
Young.
   Many biotechnology companies now have the financial
wherewithal to play the role of deep-pockets partner, notes
Richard F. Pops, president and chief executive officer of
Alkermes Inc., a Cambridge, Mass., company developing
treatments for brain diseases. After raising about $60
million in public offerings, his company recently agreed to
fund up to $26.5 million of joint research with Cortex
Pharmaceuticals Inc., Irvine, Calif., on drugs to treat
stroke and other brain disorders.
   In a related trend, the buyers of troubled biotechnology
companies are increasingly likely to be other biotech
concerns -- a noted example being Chiron Corp.'s purchase of
Cetus Corp. last year in a stock swap valued at $660 million.
This trend should help prevent a slowing of biotechnology's
financial momentum, says Vector Securities' Mr. Drake, even
if the stock market isn't as generous with the industry
during the next few years as it was in 1991. "The good news
is that the biotech industry will be self-rejuvenating as it
moves into the 1990s," he says.
   ---
              Who's Who in the Biotech World
                                                                                                       

  The leading biotechnology companies are ranked by stock
market capitalization
                                                                                                       

    STOCK                                        PROPRIETARY
    MARKET      ------- NUMBER OF DRUGS* -------  DRUGS FOR
    CAPITAL-    IN PRE-       IN       AWAITING    HUMANS
    IZATION     CLINICAL   CLINICAL      FDA         ON
 ($ Millions)   TRIALS      TRIALS     APPROVAL    MARKET
                                                                                                       

 Amgen

                                                                                                       

 Genentech
    3,080.2       N.A.        10          0          3
                                                                                                       

 Chiron
    1,509.6        7          14          0          3
                                                                                                       

 Centocor
    1,296.8        0           5          3          0
                                                                                                       

 Synergen
    1,205.4        6           3          0          0
                                                                                                       

 Genzyme
      935.9        1           1          0          1
                                                                                                       

 Biogen
      879.8        3           3          0          2
                                                                                                       

 Gensia
      860.1        8           1          0          0
                                                                                                       

 Immunex
      791.8        4           4          1          2
                                                                                                       

 Alliance
      644.0        7           2          1          0
                                                                                                       

 US Bioscience
      570.8        4           4          1          1
                                                                                                       

 Xoma
      489.5        7           6          2          0
                                                                                                       

 Medimmune
      448.8        6           1          0          1
                                                                                                       

 Affymax
      409.6        0           0          0          0
                                                                                                       

 Immune Response
      395.2        1           1          0          0
                                                                                                       

 Genetics Institute
      379.6        3           3          2          1
                                                                                                       

 Molecular Biosystems
      373.8        0           0          1          0
                                                                                                       

 Cytogen**
      352.3        0           1          0          0
                                                                                                       

 Immunomedics
      337.1        1           2          0          0
                                                                                                       

 Liposome Co.

                                                                                                       

   *Numbers indicate the actual number of compounds in
development for therapeutic purposes.
   Companies may be developing a single compound for several
indications.
   **Primary interest is nondrug medical products
                                                                                                       

   N.A.=Not available
                                                                                                       

   Source: Wilkerson Group, New York