OTC Focus:
   Managers Keep Snapping Up Medical IPOs
   ----
   By Anne Newman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
While investors in the broader stock market have begun to
favor economically sensitive shares over health-care stocks,
portfolio managers are still snapping up medical-related IPOs
as individuals pour money into health-care mutual funds.
   "The health-care stocks out in the market have waned, but
the IPOs are being gobbled up ferociously," says Randy Hecht,
a managing director with Robertson Stephens  Co. As
investment bankers ready a steady stream of medical-related
debutants, he explains, money managers are fighting to buy
large chunks of promising young companies when they first go
public, rather than risk driving their lightly traded shares
sharply higher by buying big positions later in the open
market.
   Among last month's newly public companies, 22 are involved
in health care, according to IDD. Generally small, they
raised just 43% of the total, but their shares rose an
average 16.7%, compared with a 13.5% gain in other IPOs.
   Meanwhile, already public health-care stocks swooned. The
Dow Jones index of medical and biotechnology stocks was last
month's worst-performing industry group with a 9.8% fall;
pharmaceutical and medical-supply stocks also were big
laggards with declines of more than 6.6%, compared with a
nearly 2% loss in Standard  Poor's 500-stock index.
   "Health care is my major theme," says Alan Radlo, whose
$1.1 billion Fidelity OTC Fund has the flexibility to invest
in everything from financial institutions to trucking
companies. "The cost and quality of medical care will
continue to be a dominant issue" on the nation's agenda, he
says.
   Mr. Radlo also is captivated by the farreaching
technologies of such companies as Target Therapeutics, which
makes disposable devices designed to treat strokes and other
vascular diseases without requiring brain surgery. But he
warns that many more fledgling companies will fail than will
succeed. Adds John Kaweske of Denver's Financial Funds:
"Perhaps one out of 10 of these will turn out to be something
of substance. The other nine or 10 will either be absorbed by
another company or fall by the wayside."
   Not all IPO investors remain enamored of health-care
issues. "Given their huge gains, it's an area we want to be
careful with," says Bill Newman, who manages $640 million in
small and medium-sized stocks for Bankers Trust Co. He is
scouring the IPO field for young companies involved in
rebuilding the nation's infrastructure, cleaning up the
environment or helping companies become more efficient.
   Companies that rise and fall with the broader economy,
such as Scotts Co., a Marysville, Ohio, maker of lawn care
products, also appeal to him. Friday, Scotts offered 12.5
million shares at $19 apiece, the largest over-the-counter
IPO since 1987. Scotts closed at 22 1/4 on more than 9.9
million shares.
   Similar companies whose fortunes are tied to the economy,
such as trucking concern TNT Freightways, are in the wings
waiting to go public soon, but investment bankers say they
won't be knocking healthcare companies out of the queue.
"There's still a very viable market for health-care IPOs,"
says Tony Brooks, head of the equities syndicate for Shearson
Lehman Brothers. Adds Gar Richlin, head of investment banking
for Alex. Brown  Sons in Baltimore, which specializes in
small, emerging-growth companies: "We're seeing some increase
in technology and consumer deals. But will they rival health
care? No."
   The IPO pipeline for health care is being fed by an
unprecedented amount of venture capital that was invested in
young start-up medical companies from 1985 through 1989. More
than $2 billion in venture capital was poured into embryonic
medical-related companies during those four years, according
to Venture Economics of Newark, N.J.
   Many are still waiting to go public. In Palo Alto, Calif.,
venture capital company Kleiner Perkins Caufield  Byers
hopes to bring four biotechnology companies, two medical
device makers and one healthcare service company to the
public equity market by July, partner Brook Byers says. That
compares with a total of seven medical-related companies that
the company ushered into the public equity market in all of
last year.
   Large investors such as Hans Utsch of the Kaufmann Fund of
New York say they will be scrutinizing the medical offerings
carefully, hopeful of getting in on the ground floor of
promising companies. But he remains wary of buying additional
shares of IPOs that leap in first-day trading. He was
pleased, for example, to own some of Target's original shares
offered at $18 apiece and put in an order to buy more at $24
to $25 a share the Friday it went public. But the stock
soared past his price to as high as $33.25 the first day.
"Give me a break," Mr. Utsch says. With a weekend to think
about the hot action, he sold some of his new shares last
Monday.
   ---
   Friday's Market Activity
                                                                                                       

   Over-the-counter stocks fell as investors remained worried
that interest rates may not fall any further, but January set
a record in monthly trading volume for Nasdaq, the
computerized trading system for OTC stocks.
   The Nasdaq Composite slipped 1.16 to 620.21, a 0.19% loss,
but advancing issues outpaced decliners 1,203 to 1,005.
National Market System volume rose to 183.4 million shares
from 179.4 million shares Thursday. For the week, the Nasdaq
Composite Index lost 0.72%, compared with a 0.29% fall in the
Dow Jones Industrial Average and a 1.3% decline in the New
York Stock Exchange Composite.
   Interest in smaller issues remained keen last month as
total Nasdaq volume in January soared to 5.51 billion,
eclipsing the high of 4.12 billion set last April, according
to the National Association of Securities Dealers, which
operates and monitors Nasdaq.
   An initial public offering of lawn care concern Scotts Co.
was the day's most OTC active issue as nearly 10 million
shares changed hands. The company went public at $19 a share,
up from an expected range of $15 to $18 each, and expanded
the offering to 12.5 million shares from 10.5 million.
Existing holders sold four million of the shares, reducing
their stake in the company to 38.3%.
   Autodesk plunged 6 1/4 to 28 1/4 on more than 5.2 million
shares after the software company said that fourth-quarter
earnings will fall well below expectations. The selling in
Autodesk started during the earlyhours Nasdaq International
trading session, which runs from 3:30 a.m. to 9 a.m. EST,
when more than 139,000 shares changed hands -- the largest
daily volume in a single issue Nasdaq International's
two-week history. Since it was launched Jan. 20, the
before-hours session has had average daily volume of just
54,800 shares.
   Many insurance-related issues fell after The Wall Street
Journal reported that industry executives are concerned that
a taxlaw amendment proposed last week by President Bush would
make annuities purchases less attractive to individual
investors. Annuities have been major profit contributors for
insurers.
   The Nasdaq Insurance Index slipped 0.73%. Equitable of
Iowa dropped 3 3/4 to 40, Ohio Casualty lost 1 to 55 and
Hanover Insurance fell 3/4 to 37 1/2. Spear Financial
Services eased 1 3/16 to 3 9/16, although the comany reported
Thursday that fourth-quarter earnings rose to four cents a
share from two cents a share a year earlier.
   Advanta jumped 3 5/8 to 43, following a 2 3/8-point rally
Thursday after the creditcard issuer reported that
fourth-quarter earnings rose to 68 cents a share from 46
cents a share a year earlier. Analysts surveyed by Zacks
Investment Research had expected the company to earn 58 cents
a share in the latest period.
   Geraghty  Miller lost 1 5/8 to 13 after Wessels Arnold 
Henderson analyst David McDonald downgraded his investment
rating on the stock to "sell" from "hold," Dow Jones
Professional Investor Report said. Later Friday, the company
said that it expects to earn 71 cents to 73 cents a share for
1991, up from 60 cents a share in 1990. Analysts expected the
company to earn about 73 cents a share, according to First
Call, a unit of Thomson Financial Networks.
   ---
   Dave Pettit contributed to this article.