Analysts Believe New Chip From Digital
   May Give Market Advantage to Company
   ----
   By John R. Wilke
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Executives of Cray Research Inc., Eagan, Minn., confirmed
in Paris yesterday that the big supercomputer maker will be
the first company to order the Alpha chip.
   The Alpha chip "delivers leading-edge single-chip
functionality and performance," said John Rollwagen, Cray's
chief executive officer. He said a single Alpha chip "has
roughly the same peak performance as a Cray-1 system," a
small supercomputer. Analysts said Cray chose Digital's Alpha
over chips from Sun Microsystems Inc., Hewlett Packard Co.,
International Business Machines Corp. and others. Digital's
stock closed at $59.125, up $2.25, in composite trading
yesterday on the New York Stock Exchange.
   Digital, the nation's second-largest computer maker, will
disclose details of the chip at a semiconductor industry
conference in San Francisco next Thursday. An abstract of a
technical paper describing the chip's design shows that it is
faster than chips being built by Sun, Hewlett-Packard and
IBM, analysts said.
   "This is stunning technology," said Marc G. Schulman of
UBS Securities Inc. "If these performance numbers are
correct, Digital has moved in one year from last to first in
hardware technology."
   Mr. Schulman said he thinks the chip will be shipping in
volume within six months, much sooner than previously
expected, and will be called ARA, or Advanced RISC
Architecture. RISC stands for reduced instruction-set
computing, a technique for making chips run faster.
   Barry F. Willman, an analyst with Sanford C. Bernstein 
Co., said Alpha "breaks new ground" in chip design. "This
technology should place Digital not only ahead of Sun and
Hewlett-Packard's current high-end chips but ahead of their
next generation as well."
   In another departure, Alpha is expected to run under a
future Microsoft Corp. operating system, Windows NT, that
could vastly increase its market acceptance. The chip also
runs VMS, Digital's own software, drawing Digital's large
base of existing customers.
   Windows NT is Microsoft's next-generation version of its
Windows operating system, designed to operate on more
powerful computers. The Digital chip is expected to be the
engine for a wide variety of Digital models from desktop to
large supercomputer-class machines.
   According to the abstract of Digital's presentation, the
Alpha chip processes 64 bits of information at once, double
the most powerful 32-bit microprocessors in common use today.
The abstract says the chip runs at a clock speed of 200
megahertz and delivers peak power of 400 MIPS, or million
instructions per second. These common measures of computer
speed can be thought of as analogous to the
revolutions-per-minute and horsepower ratings, respectively,
of an auto engine.
   Digital last month said that the practical speed of the
new chip -- the speed it can maintain in every-day use --
will be about 150 MIPS. Intel Corp., the semiconductor
industry leader, has said that its next-generation chip, due
out this summer, will run at 100 MIPS.
   A spokeswoman for Intel said that "the key question is
whether the Digital chip will be available in volume. Anyone
can make 100 of anything. We make millions of chips a month."
   Dallas Kirk, a Digital spokesman, refused comment on the
chip specifications, its shipping schedule or licensees,
except to confirm that licensing of the chip is under
discussion. Others within Digital say the company isn't
likely to announce any licensees at the time the chip itself
is unveiled this month.
   Digital's readiness to license the chip follows a pattern
of seeking to build support for a chip among software
developers by making it widely available. The strategy was
embraced by Sun, of Mountain View, Calif., and has won its
Sparc chip wide support.
   But if the Alpha chip runs Windows NT, it is likely to
draw hundreds of software developers even if no one licenses
the chip.
   C. Gordon Bell, a former Digital engineer who in recent
years has been sharply critical of the company's flagship VAX
computer design, called the Alpha "an extraordinary technical
achievement."
   The announcement next week begins what is expected to be a
long and potentially risky transition for Digital. Sales of
its existing line of computers has been sluggish and some
analysts expect the Maynard, Mass., computer maker to report
another loss in the current quarter. The first workstations
or computers built around Alpha won't contribute
significantly to results this year, analysts say.
   "As impressive as the Alpha technology is, it isn't going
to be much help near term," Mr. Willman of Sanford Bernstein
said.
   Cray said in its announcement yesterday that it will use
the Digital chip in its first-generation massively parallel
processing system, in which hundreds or even thousands of
chips work together in a single system. Cray said it placed
an order for Alpha chips to be delivered in 1993, but didn't
disclose terms of the agreement.
   A Hewlett-Packard spokeswoman said the company expects to
announce its own next-generation chip soon. "This is a game
of leapfrog, and we intend to remain a leader," she said.