Law:
   Lawyers Battle
   Over Structure
   Of Implant Suits
   ----
   By Robert L. Rose
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
"It stinks," says Houston lawyer Mike Gallagher about the
several attempts to get breast-implant class actions. "It
doesn't give the client good representation, and it doesn't
work," says the lawyer, who already represents about 50
women.
   Chicago attorney Norman Rifkind, who has brought a
class-action lawsuit, counters that some lawyers who oppose
class-action status are fighting "to maximize their own
recovery" of fees by representing women with serious
illnesses.
   Indeed, lawyers can collect hefty contingency fees if they
win the cases for their clients. But attorneys fees for
successful class actions can dwarf those of individual cases.
In large cases, they can easily run into the millions of
dollars, with the lead law firm often collecting the biggest
share.
   Yesterday's recommendation by a Food and Drug
Administration panel to keep silicone breast implants on the
market under restricted conditions shouldn't have much effect
on the litigation, lawyers say. Indeed, this week's three
days of FDA hearings triggered even more calls from concerned
women to lawyers.
   The breast-implant dispute promises to keep lawyers
occupied for years. "It's the hottest tort being litigated
now," says San Francisco attorney Melvin Belli. His firm
represents individual clients, and is also seeking a class
action to fund medical monitoring of women and removal of
implants.
   In this latest debate over class-action suits, Mr. Rifkind
argues that the one he's pursuing in Chicago is a way to
provide representation for women who don't have severe enough
injuries to attract lawyers on a contingency-fee basis.
   A federal judge has yet to rule on the Chicago suit, which
seeks to represent virtually all women with silicone breast
implants. But in Cincinnati, U.S. District Judge Carl B.
Rubin last week conditionally approved a similar class,
ruling that whatever the merits of the case, "a class action
is far superior" to many individual cases.
   Stanley Chesley, whose Cincinnati firm, Waite, Schneider,
Bayless  Chesley, achieved the conditional certification,
says the decision means common issues can be addressed more
efficiently, taking "the chaos out of the situation."
   Not likely, others declare. LeRoy Hersh, a lawyer who won
a $1.7 million judgment in an implant case against implant
maker Dow Corning Corp. in 1984, says the cases are too
dissimilar to be handled together. Another question is
whether the companies could even come up with names of women
with implants.
   Dow Corning, a joint venture of Dow Chemical Co. and
Corning Inc., is one of several implant makers being sued by
women who allege they were harmed by the devices. The
companies deny wrongdoing and maintain that so far, research
hasn't shown a link between the implants and human immune and
other illnesses.
   Mr. Hersh and others argue that the common issues that
make class actions desirable are lacking in implant cases,
because the devices have been made by many companies and are
alleged to have caused many different illnesses. It's far
more complicated than class actions involving a single
product or company. "It's not like 210 people on a DC-10 with
a defective engine," says Thomas Demetrio, a Chicago lawyer.
"Everybody will have their own tale of woe" about breast
implants.
   Certification of the class in the Cincinnati court could
be changed or even reversed in future court proceedings.
Eventually, class-action suits could be consolidated in one
jurisdiction. Mr. Chesley says other firms are seeking to do
just that with his case.
   Class-action advocates note that the cases can be
structured flexibly and allow women to "opt out" and pursue
their own cases. But for those choosing to take part, early
settlements could backfire if they later develop more serious
illnesses they believe are related to the implants.
Settlement provisions could preclude them from seeking
further damages.
   Product-liability lawyers opposing the class actions may
have an interesting ally. Dow Corning says that it, too,
fails to see the common link in the cases. "We think
ultimately there will not be a class action," says Robert
Rylee, chairman of Dow Corning's health-care businesses.
   The company estimates 500,000 to 600,000 women have its
implants. Though some women say serious illnesses resulted
from the devices, others say they are pleased with the
product.
   Estimates of manufacturers' ultimate liability have ranged
as high as $2 billion. Implant makers say it's far lower. The
final figure, which might not be known for years, will depend
on the number of women involved and the amounts, if any,
they're awarded in court.
   Frank Woodside, Dow Corning's national legal counsel for
the cases, says he has seen 200 suits against the Midland,
Mich., company so far, but heard about more. A Chicago
lawyer, for instance, told him he had 75 cases but has only
filed six so far.
   Milwaukee lawyer Andrew Zieve has run ads in Chicago and
Wisconsin newspapers inviting women with breast implants to
call a toll-free number. "This law firm is presently helping
many victims, and is interested in helping more, no matter
where they live," the ad reads.
   Mr. Zieve says six other lawyers have asked him for copies
of the ad.