Technology  Health:
   Bioplasty Founder
   Resigns in Wake
   Of Implant Dispute
   ----
   By Scott McMurray
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Company officials indicated that the executive shuffle had
been under consideration prior to the FDA action and wasn't
prompted by it. Mr. Beisang couldn't be reached for comment.
   More than 50% of Bioplasty's $12.2 million in sales for
the fiscal year ended last July 31 came from breast implants.
Net income for fiscal 1991 was $568,000.
   Mr. Beisang, 60, is the second chief executive of a breast
implant maker to step aside this month. Dow Corning Corp.,
under fire from critics for its earlier combative stance
regarding questions about implants' safety, named Keith R.
McKennon, a Dow Chemical Co. executive, as its chief
executive officer on Feb. 10, succeeding Lawrence Reed, who
remains the company's chief operating officer. Dow Corning is
a joint venture between Dow Chemical Corp. and Corning Inc.
   Bioplasty's breast implant troubles started before the
Jan. 6 FDA moratorium on implant sales. Last July, the FDA
seized more than $20,000 in Bioplasty nonsilicone inflatable
breast implants marketed under the name Misti Gold. The
regulator alleged that Bioplasty had marketed the implants
using improper claims, such as saying the implants were
transparent to X-rays, and without FDA approval. The FDA also
ordered Bioplasty to recall more than $740,000 of the Misti
Gold implants it had sold.
   Earlier this month, Bioplasty said that it doesn't expect
FDA approval soon for a different version of the Misti Gold
implant.
   The company also expects to announce this week a
settlement of a shareholder suit that arose from the FDA
implant recall in July, said Bioplasty President Timothy P.
Lawin, who was named to succeed Mr. Beisang as chief
executive officer. Company director Daniel G. Holman was
named chairman of Bioplasty.
   Uroplasty was formed recently to contain the urological
product business of the medical equipment maker, which
accounted for less than 1% of Bioplasty's sales in fiscal
1991, the company has said.