Securities Offering Calendar
$20.4 billion in three and six-month bills.
                                                                                                       

                         CORPORATE
                                                                                                       

                          Monday
                                                                                                       

   Louisiana Power  Light Co. -- -500,000 shares of
preferred stock, via competitive bidding.
   Philadelphia Electric Co. -- $250 million first and
refunding mortgage bonds, via competitive bidding.
                                                                                                       

                    One Day In The Week
                                                                                                       

   AdvaCare Inc. -- initial 4.4 million common shares, via
Robertson Stephens  Co.
   Advanced Magnetics Inc. -- 1.75 million common shares, via
PaineWebber Inc.
   AMR Corp. -- five million common shares, via Goldman,
Sachs  Co.
   Automatic Data Processing Inc. -- $700 million (redemption
amount) zero-coupon convertible subordinated notes, via
Merrill Lynch  Co.
   Cellular Inc. -- 2.5 million common shares, via Lehman
Brothers Inc.
   Corvas International Inc. -- initial 2.5 million common
shares, via PaineWebber.
   ElectroCom Automation Inc. -- initial 11.5 million common
shares, via Merrill Lynch.
   Fleet Call Inc. -- 7.5 million Class A common shares, via
Merrill Lynch.
   Genetic Therapy Inc. -- 1.5 million common shares, via
Smith Barney, Harris Upham  Co.
   Infinity Broadcasting Corp. -- initial six million Class A
common shares, via Lehman Brothers.
   Margaretten Financial Corp. -- initial 15 million common
shares, via Salomon Brothers Inc.
   Matrix Pharmaceutical Inc. -- initial 2.5 million common
shares, via First Boston Corp.
   National Re Holdings Corp. -- initial nine million common
shares, via Merrill Lynch.
   Noel Group Inc. -- initial 7.5 million common shares, via
Lehman Brothers.
   Oncor Inc. -- three million common shares, via Smith
Barney.
   PCI Services Inc. -- initial 2.875 million common shares,
via Smith Barney.
   Protein Design Labs Inc. -- initial 2.5 million common
shares, via Merrill Lynch.
   Scotts Co. -- initial 10.5 million Class A common shares,
via Goldman Sachs.
   Value Health Inc. -- 2.5 million common shares, via Alex.
Brown  Sons Inc.
                                                                                                       

                         MUNICIPAL
                                                                                                       

                          Tuesday
                                                                                                       

   Durham, N.C. -- $60 million of 1992 series bonds, via
competitive bid.
                                                                                                       

                         Thursday
                                                                                                       

   Texas -- $100 million of 1992 series college student loan
bonds, via competitive bid.
                                                                                                       

                    One Day In The Week
                                                                                                       

   Connecticut -- $115 million of 1992 Series A special tax
obligation refunding bonds, via a Dillon, Read  Co. group.
   Indiana Transportation Finance Authority -- $200 million
of bonds, via a Lehman Brothers group.
   Memphis, Tenn. -- $145.6 million of revenue refunding
bonds, including $121.6 million of electric system revenue
refunding bonds and $24 million of water division revenue
refunding bonds, via a Merrill Lynch group.
   Mercer County Improvement Authority, N.J. -- $190 million
of solid waste revenue bonds, Series A  B, via a Smith
Barney group.
   Washington -- $568 million of general obligation bonds,
via a Lehman Brothers Group.