The Girl Scouts Get a Little Help
   From Some Very Tough Cookies
   ----
   By Kevin Pritchett
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The prison market is a welcome contributor to annual sales
of about 165 million boxes of Girl Scout cookies, or more
than $400 million.
   About 20 inmates, members of the Lifers Inc.
community-service group at Pennsylvania's Graterford Prison,
had cookie sales of more than $7,400 over the past two years.
This year's favorites: Peanut Butter Sandwiches and Thin
Mints.
   At Joseph Harp Correctional Center, a medium-security
facility in Lexington, Okla., inmates sold $1,172 in cookies
this year, prompting the local Girl Scout organization to
send a videotape thanking them. Oklahoma officials have
decided to allow sales in all the state prisons.
   The Pennsylvania inmates were initially inspired three
years ago by a television ad recruiting cookie salespeople.
This year, the group of lifers posted a 64% sales increase --
to $4,615, or about 1,800 boxes. Each box sells for $2.50, a
substantial sum for inmates who generally make between 17
cents and 41 cents a hour.
   Stan Rosenthal, a 34-year-old convicted murderer who sold
more than 360 boxes for about $900, says he wants to "give
back to the community." A prisoner at Graterford for six
years, he says he isn't selling cookies for brownie points.
"I used to do drugs," he explains. "I've seen what drugs do
to youths, and I want to help youths in any way that I can."
He adds that prisoners are "elated" when their cookies
arrive. "These hardened murderers can't believe they can get
Girl Scout cookies in prison," he says.
   Profits go to the Freedom Valley Girl Scout Council, which
represents 17,500 Scouts in southeastern Pennsylvania and
oversees the prison program.
   "With the economy the way it is, we appreciate any extra
dollars we can get," says Judy McGlew, product sales manager
for the council. "It also shows that inmates can do good and
can be rehabilitated and have an open mind." Two other
prisons in the state are now selling the cookies, and next
year, the top sellers from the Girl Scouts and Lifers Inc.
will meet to trade selling tips.
   Mr. Rosenthal's secret is "persistence," he says. "I kept
going back until they broke down."
   So far, there have been no reports of nail files being
baked into the cookies.