Media:
   Sassy Talk Show Targets Young Women
   ----
   By Kevin Goldman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
"She's standing on stage -- Jane isn't supposed to do
that," Mr. Ancier mutters. He has told her repeatedly that
she must open every show standing in the middle of the
audience -- just like Oprah Winfrey and Phil Donahue and
Sally Jessy Raphael.
   But where Ms. Pratt stands is where Mr. Ancier wants the
resemblance to end. "Jane," whose host is the 29-year-old
editor of the hip teen magazine Sassy, may well be the first
talk show to take direct aim at the 18-to-34-year-old women
who are coveted by advertisers but practically ignored by the
afternoon menu of gab fests. "The Oprah Winfrey Show,"
"Donahue," "Geraldo" and their ilk appeal largely to the
over-35 set.
   The younger crowd "is the most elusive of audiences," says
Gail Steinberg, co-executive producer of "Jane," which will
have its premiere March 16 on WNYW, News Corp.'s Fox station
here, and will go into national syndication if it fares well.
"We're going after people who don't watch television at 5
p.m. They're listening to the radio or talking on the phone
or piddling around the house. That's the challenge -- to get
them to turn on the TV set."
   To do that, "Jane" is making sure it exudes hipness. The
show's original theme song is written and performed by the
hot rock group R.E.M., whose members have been pals of Ms.
Pratt for 10 years. The set, which resembles a large loft
with luminescent skylights, was created by the eclectic
designer Eugene Lee, who does the sets for "Saturday Night
Live." He added oddball touches: Guests sit in chairs from
the boardroom of the late billionaire recluse Howard Hughes.
   Every day, Oprah, Phil Donahue and Geraldo Rivera dive
into their audiences with a steady stream of topics aimed at
an older audience: parents of slain prostitutes, women who
stay married to "real jerks," transvestites over 60, and a
woman who undergoes surgery to resemble the Barbie doll.
"Jane" goes for late adolescents: X-rated ways to work your
way through college, teen porn stars, young pregnancies
(girls of 12, for example) and roommate horror stories.
   Then there is the host herself, who certainly hasn't been
culled from the cookiecutter mold of TV chatter boxes.
Pixieish and unpretentious, Ms. Pratt has grown immensely
popular among teenagers since she became editor of Sassy five
years ago at age 24. Her handwritten asides are printed in
Sassy's margins, and she is known for off-the-wall stunts:
Last year she ran a readers' poll on whether she should get
her nose pierced; the vote was yes, and she did so -- on
camera, during a television profile. (The tiny stud was
removed a few months before "Jane" pilots began taping.)
   Even though Ms. Pratt is pushing 30, "she's emotionally
stuck at 19," Mr. Ancier confides. Sassy appeals mainly to
15-year-old to 21-year-old females, and "I still live like my
readers," says Ms. Pratt, who lives alone in a Greenwich
Village apartment littered with page proofs.
   Ms. Pratt was raised in Durham, N.C., and her parents,
both artists, separated when she was 13 years old. She was
sent off to Phillips Academy, a boarding school in Andover,
Mass., and later graduated from Oberlin College in Ohio,
interned at Rolling Stone and worked at McCall's before
becoming the first editor of the startup magazine. Growing
up, she didn't have many friends; her teen-age years were
"traumatic," she says. "I felt like an outcast."
   The producers of "Jane" clearly hope to put that
background to good use. "The current hosts out there don't
appeal to younger viewers," says Ms. Steinberg, who is a
veteran of "Geraldo" and "Donahue."
   At the taping, as Ms. Pratt introduces the show's gritty
topic -- kids who intentionally injure themselves -- she
makes a confession to her audience: "I used to do this too."
When she was 14, a boyfriend named Scott broke up with her.
"I took a knife and cut an `S,'" she says, touching her arm
where the small scar is still visible. The audience gasps.
   Clearly, Ms. Pratt is a quick study, although she says, "I
know nothing about television. I'm not polished, so the
format allows me to be myself. It keeps me from thinking too
much of how to do television."
   Mr. Ancier, the show's executive producer, had been
kicking around the concept of a youth-oriented talk show for
some time when he received a pitch for a "60 Minutes"-type
program for teen-agers with Sassy's involvement. He rejected
that idea ("Teens won't watch a magazine show with three
separate pieces each day," he says) but met Sassy's editor
for breakfast in August. He had found his host.
   Now 34 years old, Mr. Ancier became the first chief
programmer for the newborn Fox network when he was 28, taking
aim at the young viewers that have become its stronghold. He
left in 1989 for Walt Disney Co. and returned to Fox
Broadcasting last year as an independent producer. "Jane" is
his first effort in that role.
   If "Jane" gets good ratings in a 13-week run here, Fox
says it will put the show into national syndication. Such an
incubator formula has worked for Fox before, giving rise to
"A Current Affair," "America's Most Wanted" and "Studs."
   "Jane" will cost a mere $135,000 a week for five one-hour
shows and could easily earn $50 million a year in profits in
syndication. "Oprah," the top-rated talk show, will take in
well over $165 million in revenue this year. Mr. Ancier, Ms.
Pratt, Sassy and Ms. Steinberg each own part of the show.
   After taping the opening episode, Mr. Ancier decides it
didn't work. This is supposed to be "an
audience-participation show" -- one reason he wants Jane to
open the show standing in the audience and has banned TV
monitors that might intimidate participants. But the audience
didn't exactly leap to its feet to question the guests.
   The first show is ultimately scrapped, but the producers
learn small lessons: Dim the lights during commercial breaks
so the studio doesn't overheat and make the audience cranky;
show the audience an eight-minute profile of Ms. Pratt so it
knows who she is; tell the audience to stay seated as the
show ends because the credits need to roll over shots of the
crowd applauding.
   One of the lessons is learned by Ms. Pratt herself. The
day after the first taping, the cameras are set to roll on
the second "Jane," focusing on teen-age pregnancy. This time,
Ms. Pratt is where she is supposed to be: in the audience.