Heard on the Street:
   Duff  Phelps Goes Public, but Skeptics Call
   Offering Pricey, See Insiders as Real Winners
   ----
   By Linda Sandler
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
In the next week or two, Duff  Phelps plans to sell three
million shares at $17 to $19, about 20 times earnings and
thus roughly as pricey as mutual fund manager Dreyfus. But
Duff  Phelps has less reliable revenue than pure fund
managers and will be quite leveraged even after paying $43.4
million of costly 15% debt. And though Duff  Phelps is on a
roll after rating a tidal wave of new bonds and making an
acquisition last year, 1991's growth might be hard to match
in coming years, skeptics say.
   One money manager, however, says Merrill Lynch
underwriters have told investors that the company could earn
about $1.15 a share this year, and perhaps $1.50 a share next
year.
   Insiders, led by Freeman Spogli  Co. of Los Angeles and
company managers, have agreed they won't sell shares until
180 days after the offering without written consent from
Merrill Lynch. But insiders will feel wealthy: They bought
Duff  Phelps in March 1989 for about $28 million of equity
and $100 million of debt-paying $3.70 a share, on average.
   An internal Merrill Lynch sales memorandum shows that
Merrill analysts rate Duff  Phelps as a "speculative" stock
-- unsuitable for widows and orphans -- but that the analysts
don't have a "fundamental opinion" on its appreciation
potential. A Merrill underwriter said he can't comment before
the offering.
   The roadshow begins this week, so investors haven't yet
heard Merrill's pitch for Duff  Phelps. It'll be America's
only pure play on bond rating, a profitable but cyclical
business-like Merrill's own business. So Duff  Phelps will
probably be pitched as a money manager, though only 44% of
1991 revenue came from that business; Merrill's internal
memorandum lists 1991 price-earnings multiples for Dreyfus,
Franklin Resources and others ranging from 19 to 24.
   Duff  Phelps had losses in 1987 and in its post-LBO
years. But its businesses earned 81 cents a share in 1991 and
would have earned 92 cents a share if the offering had taken
place and it had repaid much of its 15% debt a year ago.
   Still, "it doesn't sound very interesting," says
California money manager John Tilson of the Pasadena Growth
fund, who owns some Dreyfus shares. "For 20 times earnings,
you could buy a pure play" on money management -- which,
because of stable fees, "is inherently a better business than
credit rating," he says. Analyst Ned Davis of Gerard Klauer
Mattison in New York says "this deal looks kind of pricey"
next to Dreyfus, whose coffers are loaded with cash. After
Duff  Phelps's offering, long-term debt would still be
nearly half of total capital-lenders won't let it pay
dividends.
   About 7.6 million Duff  Phelps shares, out of 11.2
million outstanding, will be eligible for sale 180 days after
the offering. The company's issue of new shares will leave
Freeman Spogli's voting stake at 49%, and Mr. Spogli says
"we're pleased with" Duff  Phelps and "will make decisions"
about the investment over time.
   Duff  Phelps runs about $40 billion of money, including
big closed-end utility funds that Merrill underwrote. But by
far its strongest growth in 1991 came from businesses that
ebb and flow with market cycles and which some people think
might be peaking: Revenue from credit ratings soared by 56%,
and that from investment research (it bought McCarthy,
Crisanti  Maffei), by 53%. Money management revenue rose
half as fast, by 26%.
   In the bond-rating business, Duff  Phelps competes with
giants Standard  Poor's and Moody's Investors Service and
with agresssive little Fitch Investors Service, which has
hired a lot of people in recent years.
   Francis Jeffries, Duff  Phelps's president, says, "If the
IPO is successful, we will have resources to grow." New bond
issues in 1991 kicked in only a third of the gain in
credit-rating revenue, he says; two-thirds came from adding
new clients, especially insurance companies: "Rating
claims-paying abilities is one of our fastest areas of
growth."
   Last year's gains in revenue from the investment-research
acquisition can't be repeated this year, Mr. Jeffries says,
but "what that does is strengthen our research in high-yield"
bonds.
   Duff  Phelps had a mishap with a $301 million bond pool
underwritten by defunct junk-bond house Drexel Burnham
Lambert in 1989. As general partner of the bond pool, Duff 
Phelps wrote down to zero its own $1.4 million investment
last year.
   In those days, Freeman Spogli's partners who owned Duff 
Phelps included big Drexel customers such as thrifts. But
they're gone now, and Mr. Spogli says he doesn't expect any
fallout from those links.
   If bulls who envision the Dow Jones industrials at 4500
are right, Mr. Spogli says, "we may look back and see this as
a relatively inexpensive market" -- and Duff  Phelps would
look cheap, too.