One Man's Death
   Is Another Man's
   Real Estate Windfall
   ---
   With French `Viager' System,
   The Sooner a Seller Dies,
   The More a Buyer Profits
   ----
   By Charles Fleming
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Since no final price is fixed, it's a straightforward
gamble: The sooner he or she dies, the less the apartment
costs. The longer they live, the more it costs.
   It sounds sick -- and an open incitement to Agatha
Christie-style murders -- but it's a relatively common and
perfectly legal practice in France. It also occurs, albeit
less frequently, in other European countries, including
Belgium, Britain, Italy, Spain and Germany.
   For the seller, the advantages are clear. He gets to live
in his former home to the end of his days, and pads out his
pension with a guaranteed monthly income.
   For the investor who's in no hurry, and who isn't looking
for any immediate return on his investment, the system has
its own advantages provided, of course, real estate prices
keep climbing. That's because viager -- or
"Rentenkaufvertrag," as it's known in Germany -- allows a
speculator to buy real estate at a heavily discounted price
and then, after an initial downpayment, to pay for the rest
in bite-sized monthly installments.
   "All the appeal of viager lies in avoiding the most costly
intermediaries in the world and in short-circuiting the
banks," says Bruno Legasse, chairman of Foncial Viager, a
Paris-based viager specialist.
   However, there are two big unknowns in any viager
transaction that can quickly drive a hapless buyer to
distraction. One, naturally, is longevity. The other is real
estate prices.
   At the time of the sale, an agent like Mr. Legasse will
consult the life expectancy tables drawn up (and revised
annually) by a government body. It's a sliding scale. For
example, a woman who is 65 is reckoned to have 10 years left
to live, while a woman of 85 is said to have another 5.4
years in her.
   The price of the apartment is then calculated as for any
real estate sale. But if the former owner plans to stay on as
a nonpaying tenant, the price is cut down heavily. That is
also calculated on a formula. A 60-year-old will therefore
sell his or her apartment at a 50% discount to current market
prices, while an 80-year-old will sell at a 30% discount. As
much as one third of the final sum will then be handed over
as a downpayment. The outstanding amount is divided up into
monthly installments, calculated over the rest of the
seller's (estimated) life. These monthly payments are then
indexed to the inflation rate.
   Since the buyer has nothing to show for his money until
the seller dies, it's like buying a zero-coupon bond on
installments. For the speculator, of course, all the gains
are to be had, either in an early death or in a sharp rise in
property prices. If property prices don't rise faster than
inflation, and if the person lives longer than expected, the
buyer will have made a poor investment. If he gets tired of
waiting, on the other hand, he can sell the viager on to
another person.
   It's a macabre business. Even the vocabulary of viager
sales reflects the funereal tone of the transaction. Mr.
Legasse, for example, talks of an 80-year-old seller as "a
head of 80 years." In his book, the lump-sum downpayment
becomes a "bouquet" that the buyer gives to the seller.
   Viager professionals like Mr. Legasse and Francois Cruz,
another Paris-based viager specialist, deny that the practice
could push distraught buyers to crime. "There's always a
husband who wants his wife to die, or his neighbor to die,
but you don't see that many crimes," says a jovial Mr. Cruz.
"And think how many grandchildren want their grandparents to
die so that they can inherit."
   Perhaps. But when a man wearing dark glasses and a wig
burst into 75-year-old Genevieve Martin's hospital bedroom
last year and fired three shots at the old woman, she didn't
think it was her grandchildren, husband or neighbor. She told
a French newspaper reporter shortly after the shooting that
she suspected the man who had bought her Cannes apartment on
a viager scheme two years earlier. The man, a hand surgeon
who had also dabbled in extreme right-wing politics,
protested innocence but was arrested shortly afterward and
held for six months before being released in the face of
inconclusive evidence.
   Despite Ms. Martin's suspicions, it is often the old
people who have sold their apartments this way that defend
the system most staunchly. Jacqueline Quesnel, for instance,
is a trim and lively 78-year-old who sold her apartment in
central Paris two years ago under the viager system. With no
children of her own, she says she had little interest in
keeping the apartment in the family after her death and she
now lives comfortably off a steady monthly income from the
1990 sale. "I've only got nephews, and they would have had to
pay all the inheritance tax. I prefer to spoil them while
I've got the means," she explained, sitting comfortably in
the apartment where she has lived for the last 14 years.
   Ms. Quesnel, who was preparing to fly to Egypt for a brief
holiday at Aswan, chuckled at the idea that the viager system
is a morbid lottery. "If my plane goes down tomorrow, {the
woman who bought the apartment} will be a super-winner," she
says gaily.