PERSONAL TECHNOLOGY
   ----
   By Walter S. Mossberg
About Fax Machines
                                                                                                       

   FAX MACHINES are, at heart, simple to understand. They are
best thought of as long-distance versions of that familiar
office device, the photocopier.
   Like copiers, fax machines accept original documents on
paper, scan the documents with electronic sensors and then
spit out copies, or facsimiles. The difference, of course, is
that the copy is sent to a distant fax machine, via special
telephone circuitry built into both faxes.
   But as fax machines have become ubiquitous, makers have
offered so many features, in so many combinations, that
shopping for a machine can be trying. Prices range from $300
or so to thousands of dollars. Ads are littered with terms
such as "Group 3," "broadcast" and "fine mode."
   The basic rule is this: Buy only the features you need.
The simplest little fax machine may be enough for home use or
low-volume professions. So analyze your likely needs and shun
superfluous bells and whistles.
   To help, here's a guide to some important features of fax
machines. Next week's column will explore alternatives to
stand-alone fax machines, which allow personal computers and
printers you may already own to double as faxing devices.
   First, let's clear away the underbrush. Fax ads are laden
with certain buzzwords that you can ignore, because they
apply to nearly every machine at every price. One is "Group
3" compatibility. This simply means the machine can send and
receive according to the currently prevalent international
standard. Another is the ability to handle both "normal" and
"fine" output; this comes with Group 3 compatibility.
   Then there is the claim that a machine can double as a
copier. Nearly every fax machine can, by "sending" a
transmission to itself. But most make poor copiers, because
they yield only one copy at a time and use waxy fax paper.
   The rest of the key features can be divided into three
categories: those that affect how you feed documents into the
machines, those that affect how you receive faxes sent by
others and those that affect the telephone functions of the
machine.
   On the input end of the fax process, one feature is
especially important: document feeding. The most basic
machines require users to feed each page of a document by
hand. That's fine for a college student faxing an occasional
letter or research paper home. But even for most small
businesses, it's essential to get a machine with an automatic
feeder that lets you stack up at least a few pages and walk
away.
   On the receiving end, the biggest decision is whether a
machine produces faxes on the familiar special fax paper or
on regular paper. Most machines use rolls of the old-style
greasy fax paper, and they cost less initially than
plain-paper faxes. But fax paper curls and turns dark and
brittle. It often must be photocopied if you want to keep it
permanently, adding time and cost.
   Plain-paper faxes using the same printing mechanism as
copiers and laser printers are dropping rapidly in price.
Some can be had for $1,700, with a strong array of other
features bundled in. They also have lower per-page operating
costs because they use standard office paper. But bear in
mind that, like copiers and printers, plain-paper fax
machines require the periodic purchase of supplies that
old-fashioned fax machines don't need.
   If you opt for standard fax paper and receive more than a
dozen faxed pages a day, you should get a machine with an
automatic paper cutter to separate faxes into cut pages.
Otherwise, somebody has to manually snip the pages apart. And
be sure to get a machine that can accept paper rolls long
enough to meet your needs. Another useful feature is built-in
memory, to store a page electronically if your paper roll
runs out and then print it when you insert a new roll.
   When you use the same phone line for regular calls and
faxes, consider voice/fax switching. This feature enables the
machine to recognize whether an incoming call is a voice or
fax transmission. Otherwise, a human must answer the phone
and decide. But to use such switching, you must make the fax
machine's built-in phone your primary one for all incoming
calls.
   Finally, fax machines offer an array of dialing options to
automate transmissions. Most offer some sort of speed
dialing, where you can program in frequently called numbers
and then dial them by pressing single buttons or entering
two-digit codes. Some will redial busy numbers automatically;
others can be set to transmit at a specified time.
   Pricier machines offer "broadcasting": the ability to
transmit a single outgoing fax to multiple recipients whose
numbers have been programmed into the machine (this is the
haven of "junk" faxers). Others can do "polling," or call a
group of fax machines to see whether they have material ready
to send.
   As with telephones, VCRs and other high-tech gizmos, these
programmable features may look nice on paper but can be
difficult to operate using the fax machines' limited keypads
and screens. So, if you choose a complex machine, be sure to
try before you buy.