Technology  Medicine:
   Study Discloses
   Limits of AZT
   In Fighting HIV
   ----
   By Marilyn Chase
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
In the study, researchers assigned half the patients to
receive AZT and the rest to wait until a drop in their levels
of immune sentry cells, known as CD4 cells, to less than 200
per cubic millimeter.
   People in the early treatment group experienced a slower
plunge in their immune cells and a delayed appearance of AIDS
symptoms. But in the end, their survival rates weren't
improved, according to the report's author, Duke University
researcher John D. Hamilton and his colleagues in the
Department of Veteran's Affairs hospital system. Their
report, in this week's New England Journal of Medicine, also
said the early treatment group experienced more nausea and
other side effects.
   The question remains, how can a drug that bolsters the
immune system and delays the onset of the disease, fail to
extend life for these patients? Most researchers believe it
is because AZT's benefits only last a year or two, and
growing viral resistance to the drug permits the ultimate
collapse of the immune system.
   Other researchers said the articles highlight the need to
hasten the development of alternate treatments, and
combination therapy.
   "AZT, while a useful drug, leaves lots of room for
improvement. We need to be moving along to other approaches,"
said Daniel Hoth of the Division of AIDS at the National
Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases.
   The report also re-ignites the debate over when doctors
should treat people infected with the AIDS virus. Current
recommendations are that treatment with AZT should begin as
soon as the immune cell levels fall below 500 -- or roughly
half the normal level of 1000 or more.
   The report's authors urged doctors to consider backing
away from early treatment, and delaying AZT until such immune
cells fall below 200. In an interview, Dr. Hoth disagreed,
suggesting the drug may be improving the quality of life by
postponing AIDS symptoms.
   "We see nothing to suggest a change in the current
recommendations, which are to use AZT in patients with fewer
than 500 CD4 cells," Dr. Hoth said.