U.S. Brokers Seek Wider Access
   To the Shielded Mexican Market
   ----
   By Michael R. Sesit
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Mexican officials concede their financial services
industry is shielded by protectionism, but they want the
issue addressed within the North America Free Trade Agreement
negotiations between the U.S. and Mexico.
   Executives at U.S. securities firms fear their cause --
similar to the mid-1980s battle to open up the Japanese
financial system to outsiders -- will be lost among the
laundry list of issues covered by the free-trade agreement.
   "The {U.S.} securities industry sees an opportunity to
open the Mexican financial services market; and if we don't
take advantage of it, it will be lost," says Bruce A.
Wolfson, a managing director and lawyer at Bear Stearns  Co.
"We would like to be able to compete {with Mexican dealers}
on the proverbial level playing field on some basis."
   In the first three quarters of last year, U.S. investors
purchased a record net $2.39 billion of Mexican stocks, up
from $909 million in all of 1990 and just $8 million in 1989,
according to the Securities Industry Association, a U.S.
trade group.
   Also last year, 14 Mexican companies raised $2.68 billion
in the form of American depositary receipts (proxies for
underlying shares) in the U.S. In addition, there are
currently three U.S. closed-end mutual funds that invest
specifically in Mexican stocks. (Closed-end funds have a
fixed number of shares, unlike open-ended mutual funds that
can create more shares as money comes in.)
   U.S. and other non-Mexican securities firms and investment
banks capture some of this business but not what they feel is
their fair share. Foreign -- especially U.S. -- firms are
allowed to underwrite Mexican corporate stocks and bonds sold
outside Mexico and to advise on cross-border mergers
involving Mexican companies and on the privatization of
state-owned industries. U.S. brokers are also free to buy and
sell those Mexican shares that can be purchased by
foreigners.
   But all trades must be executed by a Mexican broker-dealer
on the Mexican Stock Exchange. Otherwise, the purchase or
sale is subject to a 20% withholding tax on the gross amount.
What's more, a U.S. firm isn't permitted to have a presence
in Mexico other than an "information" office to conduct
research for non-Mexican clients.
   "Because we are foreign-owned, we can't open a brokerage
firm in Mexico, can't be a member of the Mexican Stock
Exchange and can't solicit Mexican clients there," says Marcy
Engel, a lawyer for Salomon Brothers Inc. who specializes in
Latin American issues.
   U.S. firms can buy a minority stake in one of Mexico's 25
broker-dealers. But "it's not very popular being a minority,"
says Robert Pozen, general counsel for FMR Corp., the Boston
mutual-fund company that manages the Fidelity group of funds.
"It's putting up a lot of money and having no control."
   Mexican financial institutions recognize they eventually
must open their market to foreign competitors, but they want
to do it gradually. "Mexican brokers are trying to buy as
much time as possible to protect their industries," says a
U.S. brokerage official.
   Publicly at least, U.S. officials are talking tough.
Foreign firms should "be allowed to compete on the same terms
as domestic institutions," said Olin L. Wethington, Treasury
assistant secretary for international affairs, in a recent
speech. "We recognize that Mexico may require some sort of
transition period," he added, but any agreement "must provide
benefits to U.S. firms from the outset."
   Mr. Wolfson of Bear Stearns warns that "the highly
favorable reception that Mexican stocks and bonds have
received from U.S. and other foreign investors has been
bolstered by the expectation of a further opening of Mexico's
financial markets." But if that doesn't happen, "those
investors may be disappointed."
   (See related story: "Mexico's Red-Hot Stocks Can Still
Excite, But Buying Blind Might Burn Investors" -- WSJ Feb.
12, 1992)