Who's News:
   Tenneco Names Mead Operations Chief,
   In President's First Big Manager Change
   ----
   By Robert Johnson
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Tenneco, whose farm equipment fortunes may be improving,
is in the middle of a plan to cut 9,000 jobs by the end of
1992, reducing world-wide employment to slightly below 90,000
in 33 countries. Mr. Mead said that's familiar turf.
   "At International Paper, we did it all: consolidated and
closed operations and repositioning businesses," he said.
Meanwhile, he said, that company made 26 acquisitions, a
measure of how he hopes Tenneco can add muscle while trimming
flab.
   "He better be a real tiger, because {Mr.} Walsh is a tiger
who has said upper-level management will have to do twice as
much work per-capita, or they're out," says David Fleischer,
an analyst at Prudential Securities.
   Wall Street had expected Mr. Walsh, 49, to eventually hire
a No. 2 executive from outside the company. Tenneco's
executive ranks are widely considered to be thinly sourced
with talent.
   Many Tenneco executives are also too close to retirement
to take on the chief operating post, said Mr. Walsh, a brash
costcutter who was recruited away from the chairman's job at
Union Pacific Railroad in August. "We have a number of people
here in their mid-60s who face mandatory retirement" at age
65 under Tenneco's policy.
   At International Paper, Mr. Mead directed the paper and
pulp operations. He's credited with such innovations as
converting marginally profitable mills that made brown papers
for linerboard into makers of copy paper for office
reproduction machines.
   Will some Tenneco units simply have to change product
lines to make money? Mr. Mead, whose Tenneco appointment is
effective April 1, isn't sure yet. "We'll look at everything.
But first the company has to get its financial house in
order."
   He declined to say which of Tenneco's seven major
operations, including its biggest division, the J.I. Case
farm and construction equipment business, are his top
priorities. "I don't believe there are any priorities among
essentials," he said.
   But analysts think Mr. Mead may turn first to the Tenneco
division he's probably most versed in -- packaging. That
unit's pretax profit tumbled 60% to $21 million in the fourth
quarter, a decline the company blamed vaguely on "operational
difficulties," among other things.
   The J.I. Case division may be getting a boost from the
farm economy. January figures on sales of tractors up to 100
horsepower, show a 21% improvement from a year ago, according
to Oppenheimer  Co. January sales of larger tractors rose
59%, Oppenheimer said.
   Mr. Walsh acknowledged the improvement yesterday,
responding that Tenneco expects to report "a reasonably
strong first quarter, at least measured against the
expectation in the marketplace." He wouldn't be specific. In
the year-earlier first quarter, Tenneco had net income of $1
million, or a net loss of three cents a share, on revenue of
$3.33 billion.
   International Paper, based in Purchase, N.Y., announced
Mr. Mead's departure in a brief statement, saying it was
effective immediately. The company also said it expects to
announce an executive reorganization in several days for the
responsibilities Mr. Mead held as executive in charge of its
pulp and paper operations.
   Pulp and paper, International Paper's largest segment,
contributed $4.08 billion of total sales of $12.7 billion
last year. But its share of total sales was shrinking as the
company expanded in other areas, notably paper distribution
and specialty businesses.