Law -- Legal Beat:
   Time Warner Unit Blocked in Bid
   To See Hockey Group Legal Bills
   ----
   By Wade Lambert and Arthur S. Hayes
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
Time Warner Sports, a unit of New York-based Time Warner
Inc., had sought the legal bills in a contract dispute. The
company sued the players' association last year after the
players ended their licensing agreement with the company.
Under such agreements, the company pays royalties to the
players and the teams for any commercial use of names or
insignia.
   The association broke the contract because it alleged that
Time Warner Sports had a conflict of interest in
simultaneously representing the players and NHL team owners
in licensing contracts.
   The association, which has filed counterclaims against the
company, maintains that in some instances Time Warner Sports
favored the owners at the expense of the players and failed
to obtain revenues that were available to players, said John
R. McCambridge, an attorney for the players with the Chicago
law firm of Grippo  Elden.
   Time Warner Sports argued that the legal bills would show
that the players' association had been plotting to come up
with a reason to break the agreement so that it could cut the
company out of a licensing deal involving trading cards. It
also maintained that the bills from Grippo  Elden and
Goodman  Goodman in Toronto would show that the association
had made false statements in the case.
   But Justice Herman Cahn, after reviewing the legal bills,
rejected the request. The judge said that while retainer and
fee agreements may be subject to pretrial fact-finding
requests, "the actual bills detailing the work done by the
attorneys are clearly privileged material." Allowing access
to the bills, he said, would disclose trial strategy and make
the attorneys themselves potential witnesses in the case.
   Justice Cahn said disclosing the bills, which include
attorneys' time sheets and descriptions of the work
performed, "would reveal certain privileged communications
made between {the association} and its attorneys."
   Requests for detailed legal bills are unusual and are
rarely granted, said Stephen Gillers, professor of legal
ethics at New York University School of Law. But if the legal
bills would show an alleged fraud, that could be an exception
to the attorney-client privilege that otherwise protects the
bills from being turned over, he said.
   Attorneys for Time Warner Sports declined to comment.
(Time Warner Sports vs. National Hockey League Players Assn.,
State Supreme Court, Manhattan, No. 9413/91)
   ---
   EMPLOYMENT BIAS case at Harvard Law to be heard by state's
high court.
   A decision by the Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court
allows the Harvard Law Coalition for Civil Rights, a student
group, to bypass an intermediate court and argue that it has
a right to bring a discrimination suit against Harvard Law
School.
   In November 1990, the coalition sued the school, alleging
a pattern of discriminatory faculty hiring over 20 years.
There are five women, all of them white, and five members of
minority groups on the law school's 66-member faculty.
   Last year, a Superior Court judge dismissed the suit,
ruling that only employees, former employees or candidates
for employment can bring employment-discrimination suits. The
students, the judge said, did not allege that the law school
discriminated against students.
   Allan Ryan Jr., a Harvard University lawyer defending the
university, noted that it takes just two out of seven votes
for the state Supreme Judicial Court to bypass a lower appeal
court. Even if the students are granted the right to sue
Harvard, he added, a lower court will have to determine the
merits of the case.
   Ozell Hudson Jr., executive director of the Lawyers'
Committee for Civil Rights Under the Law, which represents
the students, said the court's decision to hear the appeal
shows that the court realizes that the issue of the students'
right to sue is an important matter for other schools and
institutions as well as for Harvard.
   ---
   ACCOUNTANCY BOARD sues to deny license to foreign-trained
applicant.
   Hugo J. Ruiz last May became the first Cuban-born
Floridian in about 10 years to pass the state's certification
test for foreign-trained accountants. But the state
Accountancy Board is contesting his right to a license,
claiming that the test -- rewritten by the state in 1986 to
remove alleged cultural bias -- doesn't adequately gauge
basic skills.
   So far, only 10 people -- all Cuban exiles -- have taken
the modified test. Two of these people have since died.
   The argument that various standardized tests are
culturally biased has generated controversy nationwide. In
the accountancy case, the claim was that some sections of the
test used words and concepts that foreign-trained accountants
weren't likely to understand. "When I first heard a professor
talk about `business law,' I said, `This is not the English I
learned in Cuba.' I did not know what he meant," said Eugenio
Sanson, a Miami accountant who helped rewrite the test.
   So far the Accountancy Board, a subagency of state
government, has won a court order blocking the state from
licensing any of the eight Cuban exiles who took the modified
exam, including Mr. Ruiz, the only one to pass all parts of
it. The state's appeal is pending.
   (Fla. Dept. of Professional Regulation and Hugo J. Ruiz et
al. vs. Fla. Board of Accountancy, First District Court of
Appeal, 91-03634)
   ---
   NOTED: A Massachusetts Supreme Court justice said she felt
vindicated after getting an apology from a discount
department store that mistakenly had her arrested on
suspicion of switching price tags on a purse in order to buy
it for $12, the Associated Press reported. Justice Ruth I.
Abrams was arrested Sunday after paying for the purse, which
she found in a discount bin at Filene's Basement in Boston.
"I think you could say if Filene's doesn't issue an apology
there may be legal action," Joan Kenney, spokeswoman for the
Supreme Court, had said before the store issued the apology.