Computers:
   U.S. Chip Makers Rail Against Japanese
   ----
   By Stephen Kreider Yoder
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
"We're supposed to have 20% {market share} by year's end
or dire things will happen," says Wilfred Corrigan, chief
executive officer of LSI Logic Corp. "We have to make sure
those dire things are in place."
   The Semiconductor Industry Association, the main chip
trade group, is expected to help put dire things in place
next week, when its members meet in Washington and, among
other things, lobby Congress and the White House to push
chip-trade issues with Japan. The association hasn't decided
what steps it will request, but chip executives privately say
that any steps would certainly include the threat of
sanctions.
   The group has a track record of getting what it wants:
Similar pressure on Washington led to a major chip-trade
agreement with Japan in 1986 and then to trade sanctions in
1987 when Japan didn't comply. What's more, chip executives
are counting on election-year politics and a growing
anti-Japan sentiment to lend muscle to the chip industry's
pressures on Japan.
   It isn't hard to see why U.S. makers want more chip sales
in Japan. Japan bought $20.9 billion in chips last year, 38%
of the $54.6 billion world-wide sales and more than any other
market. Yet the U.S. is No. 1 elsewhere: While Japan is the
biggest chip seller in the world, the U.S. has a 56%
world-wide market share when the Japanese market is excluded;
Japan has only a 22% market share outside its borders.
   Even companies such as Intel Corp. and Texas Instruments
Inc., which did see their market share grow in Japan last
year, say U.S. companies deserve better and must take a
tougher stance this year. "We've stalled out," says William
Weber, executive vice president at Dallas-based Texas
Instruments. "I'm not happy at all that my market share in
Japan is half of that of everywhere else in the world."
   The industry's call for a more hard-line approach to Japan
is a big shift from the past several years. When the 1986
agreement ended last year, Japan was buying only 14.7% of its
chips from foreign makers -- mostly from the U.S. -- well
short of the 20% share it had informally committed to reach.
But Japanese companies were beginning aggressively to design
U.S. chips into their products, and foreign market share at
the time was still a huge improvement over the 8.6% share
foreign makers had in 1986.
   So U.S. chip makers, arguing that Japanese companies were
showing good-faith efforts, held back on anti-Japanese
rhetoric; and the U.S. government agreed in June to an
18-month extension on the deadline for Japan to reach the 20%
foreign-purchase quota.
   The concession hasn't paid off. Last year, "We had a
feeling of cautious optimism and extended the deadline," says
Charles White, a Motorola Inc. vice president who follows
chip-trade issues. "That feeling is certainly turning sour."
   Foreign market share of the Japanese semiconductor market
fell soon after last year's extension was granted and hasn't
seen much net gain for about two years, says Gilbert Amelio,
chief executive officer of National Semiconductor Corp.
National's own share in Japan, which grew for five years
after the 1986 pact, has fallen for a year, he adds.
   Japanese electronics executives trace at least part of the
slowing foreign purchases to Japan's slowing economy. When
times are tough, it's hard to increase foreign market share,
they argue. Ironically, the stock argument from Japan during
its electronic industry's boom years in the late 1980s was
that it was hard to increase foreign share when overall chip
sales were growing so rapidly.
   U.S. executives, who have long argued that the true test
of Japan's sincerity would come during a slowdown, say that
Japanese buyers are simply cutting off late-comer foreigners
in favor of domestic suppliers. "If you're a marginal
supplier when times are tough you're the first to go," says
Mr. Amelio, "That's how we've always been treated by the
Japanese."
   Japanese executives say buyers are slowing purchases from
many suppliers, both foreign and domestic. Indeed, some
Japanese chip makers are finding it harder to sell to local
electronics conglomerates. "Japanese buyers know they have to
keep up U.S. purchases so they cut off Japanese companies,"
says Saburo Kusama, general manager of Seiko Epson Corp.'s
semiconductor division, who adds that he has lost a number of
sales in this way since mid-1991.
   Still, "I find no justification whatsoever for their not
meeting their numbers," says Andrew Procassini, president of
the chip-trade group. "There's been sufficient time,
sufficient opportunity, and sufficient cooperation, and I'm
appalled at their inability to honor this agreement."
   U.S. executives don't argue that Japan isn't trying. They
credit big companies such as Sony Corp. and NEC Corp. with
making major moves to use more U.S. chips. "Efforts are being
made by responsible companies in Japan, and if we can widen
those efforts there's still a chance" to meet the 20% goal,
says Joseph Parkinson, chief executive officer of Micron
Technology Inc. and chairman of the chip-trade association.
Still, under the chip-trade pact, Japan has agreed not to
dump chips and to increase market share, he says, adding:
"Both parts of that agreement are equally important and if
one is violated it will be very, very unpleasant" for the
Japanese.