Credit Markets:
   Long-Bond Prices Inch Higher; IBM Issues Slump
   As Company Loses Triple-A Rating From Moody's
   ----
   By Tom Herman and Terence Donnelly
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
In another seesaw day, the Treasury's benchmark 30-year
bonds recovered from an early-morning sinking spell and
finished with a gain of 1/8 point, or $1.25 for each $1,000
face amount. The yield, which moves in the opposite direction
as its price, slid to 7.91% from 7.92% Tuesday.
   In the corporate bond arena, prices of investment-grade
issues generally were little changed. But prices of
International Business Machines Corp. debt issues slumped
after Moody's Investors Service Inc., the large credit-rating
agency, stripped IBM of its highly coveted triple-A rating.
   Moody's cut its rating on IBM's long-term debt by two
notches to double-A-2. The price of IBM's 8.375% debentures
due 2019 dropped 1/2 point yesterday to 99 bid. And IBM's 9%
issue due 1998 slumped 3/8 point to 106 5/8.
   Moody's also lowered its ratings on debt of IBM Credit
Corp. and IBM International Finance to double-A-2 from
triple-A. The rating on IBM's subordinate debt was lowered to
double-A-3 from double-A-1. The new ratings affect about $18
billion of debt, Moody's said.
   IBM said it is "disappointed" by Moody's decision but
expects "minimal" impact from the lower rating. The company
said it has been a "consistent leader in earnings
performance" with the exception of last year. It also said it
has taken "significant actions that should result in improved
financial performance and provide consistent earnings
momentum."
   Treasury-bond trading volume was brisk yesterday as
dealers tried to figure out whether to believe rumors about
what tomorrow morning's employment report from the Labor
Department will show. The monthly labor figures often heavily
influence investors' perceptions of where the economy,
inflation and interest rates are heading.
   The rumor mill began to churn early in the day, with
traders saying they had heard the government would revise
January data that had shown surprising economic weakness.
Those rumors of a revised, stronger January report helped
drive down Treasury bond prices, several traders said.
   But bonds later recovered after traders concluded these
rumors were false. Also, prices were bolstered by reports of
unexpectedly weak car sales late last month.
   Tomorrow's employment report is likely to "highly
significant," said Thomas J. Steffanci, director of
fixed-income at Fidelity Investments in Boston. He said the
report will command especially close scrutiny because it may
help confirm or contradict recent signs of economic strength.
Fears have grown this week that faster economic growth will
prove inflationary and drive up interest rates further.
   Analysts in several surveys expect the labor figures to
show little or no change in the economy's sluggishness.
According to the consensus forecast of 20 economists surveyed
by Dow Jones Capital Markets Report, the report is likely to
show nonfarm payrolls expanded by only 10,000 last month. The
report is also expected to show the civilian unemployment
rate remained unchanged at 7.1%.
   But, as usual, estimates vary widely, ranging between a
decline of 85,000 to an increase of 90,000.
   "A weaker than expected number would call into question
recent signs of strength" and ignite a bond rally, Mr.
Steffanci predicted.
   Paul Volcker, former Federal Reserve Board chairman, says
the economic slump differs from past recessions. "It is
different in that it hasn't been particularly deep, and it's
a very sluggish recovery, if indeed we're in a recovery, and
it's likely to remain so," Mr. Volcker said in a recent
interview with George J.W. Goodman.
   Mr. Goodman, better known as "Adam Smith," hosts a weekly
television program on economics and business. Mr. Volcker,
who did not make any interest-rate forecasts, was interviewed
for a program on the Federal Reserve to be aired on public
television stations starting tonight.
                                                                                                       

   Corporate  Junk Bonds
                                                                                                       

   About $575 million of new debt was sold yesterday.
   Among issuers was Greyhound Financial Corp, which offered
$125 million five-year notes to yield 8.362%. The noncallable
notes were priced at a spread of 1.60 percentage points above
the Treasury's five-year note.
   Dial Corp., Greyhound Financial's parent, recently
announced that shareholders had approved the spinoff of the
financial services subsidiary. Greyhound will become a
subsidiary of a newly formed New York Stock Exchange holding
company to be named GFC Financial Corp.
   In the wider investment-grade market, prices were little
changed. In the market for high-yield, high-risk junk bonds,
prices were firm.
                                                                                                       

   Treasury Securities
                                                                                                       

   Treasury note and bond prices ended mixed in volatile
trading.
   The government's benchmark 30-year bonds rose slightly to
101 from 100 7/8 late Tuesday. The yield dipped to 7.91% from
7.92%. At one stage, the issue traded as low as 100 11/32.
   But prices inched lower on shorter-term notes. For
example, the Treasury's 6.75% notes due in five years fell to
99 29/32, to yield 6.76%, from 100 Tuesday. The benchmark
two-year notes fell to 99 24/32, yielding 5.49%, from 99
29/32.
   Traders attributed the slight drop in intermediate-term
note prices to speculation that the Federal Reserve won't cut
short-term interest rates any further.
                                                                                                       

   Municipal Bonds
                                                                                                       

   A large volume of state and local government bond issues
hit the municipal market yesterday.
   Even so, prices of tax-exempt bonds trading in the
secondary, or resale, markets finished flat to as much as 1/4
point higher. Among active issues, Metropolitan Seattle,
Wash.'s 6.60% bonds of 2032 ended 1/4 higher at 98, to yield
6.74%.
   Analysts said New York City's huge new issue generally
attracted strong investor demand because the initially
proposed yields were so high. The offering, as expected,
includes some bonds that pay tax-exempt interest and some
that pay interest that is fully taxable. The tax-exempt
portion was tentatively priced yesterday to yield from 6.00%
on bonds due in 1994 to 7.80% on those due in 2013-2019. The
taxable bonds carry yields ranging from 8.50% in 1997 to
10.05% in 2010, 2015 and 2016.
   Underwriters are expected to reprice the bulk of the
offering to reduce yields on some maturities slightly.
   Separately, Westchester County, N.Y., sold $52 million of
general obligation bonds yesterday through competitive
bidding. The bonds, won by a Roosevelt  Cross Inc. group,
were offered to investors priced to yield from 3.25% on bonds
due in 1993 to 6.25% in 2010-2012. An unsold balance of
slightly more than $3 million was reported.
   Underwriters led by Goldman, Sachs  Co. reported an
unsold balance of about $283 million of bonds late yesterday
on Georgia's offering of $567 million of general obligation
bonds. The bonds, rated triple-A by Moody's and double-A-plus
by Standard  Poor's Corp., were priced to yield from 2.75%
in 1993 to 6.40% in 2011.
                                                                                                       

   Mortgage  Asset-Backed Securities
                                                                                                       

   Prices of mortgage securities ended little changed.
   Among secondary issues, Government National Mortgage
Association 8% securities finished at 99 5/32, unchanged,
Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp. Gold 8% securities were 1/32
firmer at 98 27/32 and Federal National Mortgage Association
8% securities were up 1/32 at 98 25/32.
   In new-issue activity, three real estate mortgage
investment conduits totaling $800 million were announced --
two from Fannie Mae and one from Freddie Mac -- bringing the
week's total to around $1.9 billion. Weekly volume through
most of the year has averaged nearer to $5 billion.
   The Treasury yield curve, which is closely monitored by
Remic issuers, has flattened further. As that happens, it
reduces the incentive to underwrite new Remic offerings. Most
Remic classes are tied to short-term Treasury yields, which
have been steadily rising compared with bond yields.