Unhappy Redheads
   Of Botkins, Ohio,
   Have a Solution
   ---
   It Is Known as `The Works,'
   And It Gets the Rust Out;
   It Is Meant to Clean Toilets
   ----
   By James S. Hirsch
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
"I used to dye my hair red, but I don't have to here,"
sighs Sara Kjellmert, a 17-year-old exchange student from
Sweden.
   But don't call in the Food and Drug Administration. This
is one condition with a known cause (though it also has a
dubious cure). The culprit is hard water, water with a heavy
mineral content found in wells throughout rural America. The
stuff, they say, is safe to drink, but in the shower minerals
latch onto strands of hair and leave deposits of iron, lime
or magnesium.
   Like garden tools or an old Chevy, hair can oxidize,
redden and rust. The heavy buildup develops particularly
among women who have had perms full of chemicals or who use
highlighting paste on their hair. Teen-agers, who wash their
hair a lot, are particularly prey to the orange peril.
   Battling rust buildup is a daily struggle for the four
beauty salons in Botkins, a tiny farming town 50 miles north
of Dayton. Put on a little perm solution and rinse, and just
watch the deep-purple water flow like Manischewitz. One young
woman had her blonde hair highlighted and saw it turn gray.
"It's scummy, it's dandruffy, and there's no shine to the
hair," says Darla Berning, who owns the Village Salon.
   The problem is by no means unique to this area. High
concentrations of hard water minerals stretch from upstate
New York to Montana, and particularly around the Great Lakes
region. For people who live in cities where water is treated,
this is a non-issue.
   That's even the case for the 1,200 residents of Botkins.
It's those who live outside of town who tend to develop this
red badge of corrosion. Getting a water softener and calling
the Culligan man helps, if you can afford the tanks and the
chemicals and the regular servicing.
   Still, there's a Rust Belt that cuts a swath through the
hair curlers of rural America.
   "I don't like being a redhead," says Shelly Zitzelsberger
of Stockbridge, Wis., whose true hair color is light brown.
"I mean, it's not that color makes a difference, but I want
my color back."
   What to do? Ah, there's the rub.
   Many things have been tried, including vinegar, baking
soda, skin cleansers, hydrogen peroxide, shampoos,
conditioners and clarifiers. Missy Grieves, a Botkins High
School junior with flowing blonde hair, has had limited
success with distilled water, lemon juice and salt. Miss
Thatcher, a 19-year-old blonde who became a redhead, has
since dyed her hair brown, voiding the issue.
   Some Botkins residents are resigned to their fate. Red
hair is just part of living in a community where a big feed
mill spews corn dust and the only motel is next to a pig
farm.
   But other people are desperate to get the rust out. And in
recent years, some people in these parts of south central
Ohio have been using a product called The Works, which
contains just enough hydrochloric acid to do the job. It's
controversial, among other reasons, because the product is
made to remove toilet-bowl rust, and, besides that, it is
poisonous. It says so in bold, black letters across the
bottle, and the label expands on the theme: "May Be Fatal If
Swallowed. Causes Severe Burns. Vapor Harmful."
   But it would take more than dire warnings to deter Sharon
Klosterman, who has been shooting The Works on her hair every
six months for several years. Wearing rubber gloves, the
33-year-old mother of three mixes two ounces of the
toilet-cleaner with two ounces of water, then sluices it
through her rusty blonde hair.
   She doesn't let the solution touch her scalp. "I just put
it in and rinse it out," she says. "It's never done any
damage to my hair." It's toxic, but it gets the rust out.
   Mrs. Klosterman, who works in quality control at a nearby
Honda plant, says many of her friends have also taken the
cure. One 26-year-old blonde, who lives outside Botkins, says
she started using the toilet-bowl cleaner on her hair four
months ago after she tired of being called "carrot top." The
friend who recommended The Works to her, she says, told her
not to be concerned if her hair started to smoke. She says
that hasn't happened.
   The testimonials go on and on, from people pleased with
the results and blase about the peril.
   But the product's manufacturer is very concerned about its
misapplication. Lime-O-Sol Co. in Ashley, Ind., said it first
heard that The Works was being used as a personal-care
product last month, and the only reports the company has had
have come from south-central Ohio. "We prefer that our
cleaning products only be used for cleaning, and we encourage
people to read labels," says Therese Stantz, supervisor of
sales and customer service. "This was definitely a first for
us."
   It isn't clear where the innovative new use for The Works
came from, or if that matters. Some attribute it to
teen-agers, others to Botkins beauticians. But the issue came
to a head last year when a beautician in Botkins, Connie
Mielke, was asked by a high-school student about using
toilet-bowl cleaner to get the red out. Mrs. Mielke, who owns
the Hairitage House here, says she was shocked. "Some of
these kids have used it for three years, and they say their
hair is fine, but believe you me, their hair is not fine." It
has lost protein, for one thing, she maintains.
   Mrs. Mielke began a crusade to discourage using The Works
-- then created a rhubarb when, in a local newspaper, she
called people who do "stupid." Some salon owners say she is
just trying to drum up business for herself.
   And many people hereabouts don't see much wrong with the
rust remover. Bartending at Meyer's Tavern, Rita Dorsten says
she figures beauticians have probably used toilet-bowl
cleaner on her blonde tresses. "It's no worse than perm
solution," she says, taking a drag on her cigarette. "That
stuff will burn your skin." In her opinion, "Anything that's
going to strip {the rust} out of your hair will be just as
hard" on it as something that burnishes porcelain.
   A product was introduced last year that is meant to get
mineral deposits out of hair. It is called Malibu 2000 and is
available only in salons. It is touted by its manufacturer in
Southern California as "a whole new approach to hair," and it
is endorsed by Jan Hodgin-States, the manager of a J.C.
Penney Styling Salon in Muncie, Ind. "It's the most effective
product I've ever used," she says.
   And it is now being pushed aggressively in the beauty
parlors of Botkins. But Mrs. Berning, of the Village Salon,
doesn't think it will necessarily catch on with the
inadvertent redheads who have come to rely on The Works.
"They're not going to pay for expensive products," she says,
"when they've been using that for years."