Domtar Outlines
   Financing Plan,
   Reports a Loss
   ----
   By G. Pierre Goad
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Domtar said its principal shareholders, Caisse de depot et
placement, the Quebec government's pension-fund agency, and
another Quebec agency together will buy about 42% of the
shares to be issued. The agencies currently own about 42% of
Domtar's 100.8 million shares outstanding.
   Domtar said the share offering will be underwitten by a
group of Canadian securities dealers led by Nesbitt Thomson
Ltd. and Levesque Beaubien Geoffrion Inc. Domtar said Kidder,
Peabody  Co. is lead underwriter of the note offering, which
will be co-managed by Salomon Brothers Inc.
   The Montreal pulp, paper and construction materials
concern said a syndicate of banks led by Royal Bank of
Canada, Bank of Nova Scotia and National Bank of Canada
agreed to provide a C$500 million credit facility to replace
an existing C$340 million credit facility. A Domtar official
said proceeds of the share and note offerings will allow the
company to repay the approximately C$300 million it has
borrowed under the existing credit facility, leaving
available the full C$500 million of the new credit facility.
   In addition, Domtar said a Quebec government investment
agency agreed to convert an existing C$150 million loan into
C$150 million of new Series C preferred shares.
   Domtar said each of the four financing measures is subject
to certain conditions, including the successful completion of
all four elements of the financing program. It said it
expects to complete the financing program by late March.
   Separately, Domtar reported a fourth-quarter loss of C$44
million, or 46 Canadian cents a share, compared with a loss
of C$263.0 million, or C$2.99 a share a year earlier. The
year-ago quarter included after-tax charges of C$237 million,
or C$2.66 a share, and income from discontinued operations of
C$10 million, or nine Canadian cents a share. Sales fell 17%
to C$432 million in the latest fourth quarter from C$521
million a year earlier.
   Domtar closed at $5.125, off 37.5 cents, in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading.