International:
   World Wire
   ----
   Compiled by Monua Janah
Eurotunnel PLC, confirming speculation, said it doesn't
expect to meet the June 1993 target for the opening of its
rail tunnel under the English Channel.
   The Anglo-French consortium issued a statement saying that
if contractors Trans Manche Link fulfill the programs for
installation and commissioning now under discussion, the
tunnel should be able to open at the end of that summer.
Eurotunnel repeated that it had planned to phase in service
through 1994 as rail stock and other facilities related to
the tunnel system go on line.
   The cross-channel tunnel project has been dogged by
controversy since its start in 1986. Its latest troubles have
surrounded often heated negotiations with TML over #1.2
billion ($2.2 billion) in cost overruns.
   Eurotunnel's share price on London's stock exchange
plummeted 11 pence a share yesterday, or 2.3%, to 454 pence
($8.34) on news of the delay. In Paris, Eurotunnel shares
fell 1.25 French francs, or 2.7%, to 45.85 francs ($8.56).
                                                                                                       

   FRANCE TO ALLOW KOREAN CARS
                                                                                                       

   France decided to allow imports of South Korean cars in
the latter part of this year, Korean officials said. The
decision was conveyed by visiting French Minister for
Industry and Foreign Trade Dominique Strauss-Kahn. The French
official was quoted as saying Korean car sales in France
should be "orderly and gradual." In return, Korea will
favorably consider a multimillion-dollar investment project
by a French machinery company to make and sell transformers
and other heavy electrical products in Korea, the Korean
officials said.
                                                                                                       

   CONCERN ABOUT GERMAN RATES
                                                                                                       

   Finance ministers from European Community nations
complained to their German counterpart that high German
interest rates were setting constraints on policy makers
elsewhere in the EC, according to EC officials. During
economic-policy talks among EC ministers, French Finance
Minister Pierre Beregovoy criticized Germany for putting
domestic considerations ahead of the European economy's
interests, the officials said. Ministers of other nations
also expressed concern about high German rates.
                                                                                                       

   CLUB MED IN SOUTH AFRICA
                                                                                                       

   Club Mediterranee S.A., a French resort operator, plans to
add South Africa to its list of destinations. The company has
nearly completed negotiations with local authorities to build
a resort on South Africa's southeastern coast. The group will
invest between 100 million rand ($36 million at the
commercial rate) and 250 million rand, and the site is
expected to open some time in 1994. Club Med also wants to
open three additional resorts, a spokeswoman said, including
one in the black "homeland" of Bophuthatswana.
                                                                                                       

   SALMON-FISHING TREATY
                                                                                                       

   Japan, the U.S., Russia and Canada will sign a salmon
conservation agreement in Moscow today, officials of Japan's
fisheries agency said. The pact, which bans offshore salmon
fishing in international waters of the North Pacific, will
probably will come into effect this fall, they said. The U.S.
and the former Soviet Union had initially called for a ban on
salmon fishing in waters 50 nautical miles (57.5 miles) from
the coastline and beyond. Japan, however, objected, and the
four nations finally agreed last summer on a ban beyond a
200-mile limit.
                                                                                                       

   EUROPEAN UNEMPLOYMENT OUTLOOK
                                                                                                       

   Europe could find itself awash in unemployed workers if
its productivity doesn't improve, warned Douglas McWilliams,
chief economic adviser to the Confederation of British
Industry. In a talk in Maidstone, Britain, he estimated
Europe may account for 80% of the industrial world's
unemployed by century's end, compared with 62% now.
                                                                                                       

   JAPAN WEIGHS MARKET OPENINGS
                                                                                                       

   Japan will study the possibility of granting foreign
companies access to 105 service sectors, Japanese officials
said.
   Last month, during the first round of talks on trade in
services under the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade,
Japan said it was willing to consider liberalizing markets in
about 40 areas. But the proposal sparked criticism from the
U.S. and the European Community. The U.S. has said it would
consider liberalization in about 90 service areas, and the EC
in about 110 areas.
   Japan responded by raising the proposed number to 105, the
officials said.
   In a related development, the EC and Switzerland called on
Japan to fully privatize the automobile liability insurance
business, the officials said. But the officials said Japanese
authorities intend to turn down the proposal, on the grounds
that government involvement is needed to help victims of
traffic accidents and to keep premium costs down.
                                                                                                       

   POSTSCRIPTS . . .
                                                                                                       

   Chile this week will severely limit exports of certain
lizards -- including iguanas-spiders and frogs threatened
with extinction. An official said the sale of these animals
abroad as pets, particularly in the U.S., accounts for an
explosive increase in recent years in the number captured. .
. . Singapore banned imports of used vehicles more than three
years old, starting Sept. 1. The Registry of Vehicles said
the move was intended to stem a trend toward older autos,
"which runs counter to the policy of encouraging a younger
and more roadworthy vehicle population."