J.P. Morgan Had $50 Million in Losses
   In Trading Mortgage-Backed Securities
   ----
   By Steven Lipin
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
J.P. Morgan had a large exposure to hybrid mortgage
securities that are backed by the interest portion, but not
the principal, from a pool of mortgages. Those securities are
known as strips. As homeowners rushed to refinance and prepay
their loans at lower interest rates, the value of the strips
eroded because there is less interest available for holders.
   The bank accurately predicted the rush of refinancings,
but officials said it didn't expect prepayments would
continue to surge despite the recent rise in rates. After
tumbling to a 17-year low, mortgage rates rebounded in the
past six weeks six-tenths of a percentage point to about
8.8%.
   While the loss could signal problems at other firms that
hold or trade these risky mortgage securities, Wall Street
executives said they haven't had similar losses. At
PaineWebber Group Inc., capital-markets director Lee
Fensterstock said his firm has "absolutely not" had any
losses of its own, but he can see why other firms may have.
"You had a lot of obvious movement in both the shape of the
yield curve," or relationship of short-term rates to
long-term rates, "and the level of interest rates over the
first two months of the year," Mr. Fensterstock said. "It was
easy to have a problem."
   General Electric Co.'s securities unit, Kidder, Peabody 
Co., Wall Street's biggest underwriter of mortgage-backed
securities, also said it hasn't had losses. Analysts said the
firm's strips inventory -- estimated at less than $200
million -- is relatively small compared with holdings in
other areas in the mortgage market. "We don't emphasize it
because of this very sort of thing," said Edward Cerullo,
Kidder's chief of fixed-income securities. "Kidder has grown
up with the mortgage business. We think we understand it. Our
strip position is profitable."
   Banking analysts believe the loss indicates that trading
profits at active trading institutions such as Morgan and
Bankers Trust New York Corp. could be modest.
   J.P. Morgan said the losses covered activities for the
first two months of 1992; it declined to say whether there
could be additional losses from the bank's mortgage exposure.
   J.P. Morgan's shares fell yesterday to $57 each, down 67.5
cents, in late New York Stock Exchange trading. Shares of
Bankers Trust slid to $57.50, down $1.125.
   "I don't expect it to be a vibrant quarter for trading
results," said Judah Kraushaar, banking analyst at Merrill
Lynch.
   The trip-up from a rise in interest rates is a sharp
turnaround from last year, when many banks benefited from the
decline in interest rates.
   "As rates back up, those banks with high levels of
securities gains may see those diminish this quarter," Mr.
Kraushaar said.
   Still, J.P. Morgan said the losses would be offset by
higher revenue in other areas of business compared with the
1991 first quarter, when net income was $273 million, or
$1.40 a share. The consensus estimate of analysts is that
Morgan will show earnings of $1.38 a share for the 1992
quarter.
   ---
   William Power and Michael Siconolfi contributed to this
article.