What's News --
   World-Wide
Despite opposition by Russia based on fears of secession,
residents of Tatarstan voted by a 2-1 margin to declare the
region a sovereign republic.
   ---
   A commuter plane crashed at La Guardia airport in New York
during a snowstorm, leaving at least seven dead. The USAir
plane was carrying 47 passengers and four crew members when
it crashed and slid into Flushing Bay in an aborted takeoff.
   ---
   France's ruling Socialists were dealt a blow in regional
elections, taking less than 20% of the vote. A coalition of
conservative parties won 34%, and the ultra-right National
Front, which wants to throw foreigners out of France, won 14%
and outpolled the Socialists in some places. Surging ecology
parties won about 13%.
   ---
   Kurdish separatists clashed with security forces in Turkey
for the second day in the worst fighting of the
eight-year-old Kurdish insurgency. At least 45 people were
killed over the weekend. The Turkish army set up roadblocks
throughout the southeast part of the country, many towns were
placed under curfew and telephone service was cut.
   ---
   U.N. inspectors visited the site where Iraq claims to have
destroyed substantial quantities of missiles and other terror
weapons nine months ago. Baghdad, under the threat of a
military strike by the U.S. and its allies, has said it would
end its resistance to abiding by U.N. orders to destroy such
weapons and the equipment to build and repair them.
   ---
   Bush attacked Congress as inept, stagnant and bordering on
corrupt because of its failure to pass his tax plan. But the
strategy, intended to force Democratic front-runner Clinton
to defend the increasingly unpopular institution controlled
by his party, could bruise some GOP lawmakers and reopen the
fairness issue.
   ---
   The Arab League approved a watered-down resolution urging
the U.N. to reject proposed sanctions against Libya over its
refusal to hand over two agents accused in the 1989 bombing
of a Pan Am jetliner over Scotland. Arab foreign ministers
turned down a request by Libya that they ignore any sanctions
the U.N. may impose.
   ---
   Israel's finance minister said Israel will be able to
raise the capital it needs to help finance the absorption of
immigrants, despite the Bush administration's rejection of
loan guarantees. Separately, a U.S. mission arrived in Israel
to investigate recent allegations that Israel sold Patriot
missile technology to China.
                                                                                                       

   Palestinians returned to jobs in Israel after the army
lifted a travel ban on Gaza Strip residents imposed after an
attacker from the area killed two Israelis last week.
   ---
   A mostly Croat town came under heavy mortar and artillery
fire from Yugoslav army positions. The Serb-dominated federal
army said it was responding to Croat attacks. There were also
reports of scattered cease-fire violations in Croatia and
Bosnia-Hercegovina, areas where 14,000 U.N. peacekeeping
troops are to be deployed.
   ---
   Premier Li Peng opened the annual session of China's
National People's Congress by calling for faster economic
growth and bolder reforms. The legislative session also
offered a glimpse into the growing deficit and declining
financial clout of the central government.
   ---
   Pro-military Thai parties appeared to garner enough votes
in national elections to form a weak government, political
analysts in Thailand said. The vote, according to unofficial
tallies, was close between parties willing to have as prime
minister a nonelected general and those that insist a
Parliament member should head the government.
   ---
   Albanians voted in an election that could end the
Communists' 48-year grip on power in Europe's poorest
country. No results were available late yesterday in the
balloting, which pits the Democratic Party against the
Socialists, or renamed Communists.
   ---
   The Bush administration said doctors in federally funded
clinics, but not their support staff, may present abortion as
an option to women with medical problems that could affect
their pregnancies.