Bush's Potential Black Voters
   ----
   By Joseph Perkins
This may not necessarily be so. Indeed, today's Super
Tuesday primaries throughout the South remind us that for the
first time in three presidential election cycles, the
Democratic field offers no black candidate. With neither
Jesse Jackson, nor even Douglas Wilder, to galvanize black
voters in the Democratic column, the votes of the 40% of
blacks who consider themselves "independent" (according to a
July CBS-New York Times poll) are up for grabs this November.
"About a third of blacks are ready to go Republican," says
Martin Kilson, a Harvard government professor. "They are just
waiting to be offered something."
   If current form holds and Arkansas Gov. Bill Clinton
emerges as the Democratic nominee, Mr. Bush conceivably could
win over a fair share of black independent voters. For while
the president's record on matters of race may not look
especially impressive when compared to the likes of Jesse
Jackson, he measures up rather well against Mr. Clinton. (And
he looks even better against Paul Tsongas, who hasn't focused
much on black issues, since blacks constitute less than 5% of
the population of his home state of Massachusetts.)
   For instance, President Bush can boast to black voters
that he gave his imprimatur to the first civil rights law
since the 1960s. Meanwhile, Arkansas remains one of only two
states without a civil rights law on its books. Mr. Bush also
can claim the two most important black political appointments
by one president in American history: Chairman of the Joint
Chiefs of Staff Colin Powell and Supreme Court Justice
Clarence Thomas. Gov. Clinton's highest black appointment has
been the director of his health department.
   James Sundquist, a political analyst for the liberal
Brookings Institution, looks at the president's record and
concludes: "He would talk about signing the Civil Rights
Bill, the first Civil Rights Bill since 1965 and how he was
proud to be able to put his name on it. He'd talk about
blacks in the cabinet. He can brag about Louis Sullivan, who
is probably the most impressive black cabinet member we've
ever had."
   Fellow Democrats have provided the president's re-election
team with all the fodder they might need to counteract any
claim that Mr. Bush is less sensitive than Mr. Clinton to
black issues. Just last week, for instance, Mr. Clinton was
criticized for doing a photo-op in front of a lineup of black
prisoners at a Georgia correctional facility. Jerry Brown
said that Mr. Clinton looked like a "colonial master" and
prisoners "like a bunch of Willie Hortons."
   Democrats have also criticized the governor's refusal to
stay the execution of a mentally retarded black man who
killed a cop. And finally, Mr. Clinton has had a running
battle with Jesse Jackson, who captured seven million votes
during the 1988 Democratic primaries. Mr. Jackson's black
supporters probably won't forget the governor's intemperate
remarks about Mr. Jackson when he was mistakenly informed
that Mr. Jackson had cast his support to Iowa Sen. Tom
Harkin.
   Whether George Bush wrests away more than 10% of the black
vote from the Democrats this fall and sets in motion a
historic rapprochement between blacks and the party of
Lincoln depends in large part on the strategy Republican
Party leaders pursue leading up to November's general
election. Essentially, there are two roads the GOP may
travel.
   The first would be a reprise of 1988, in which Mr. Bush
would concentrate on building a solid base of support among
largely Southern white working-class voters, while virtually
writing off the black vote. This so-called Southern Strategy
provided Mr. Bush a smashing victory, but otherwise left
Republicans in the decided minority in both the House and
Senate.
   A second strategy would have the GOP preserve its existing
base of support (without trying, for instance, to pick off
even more white support from Democrats by exploiting divisive
wedge issues), while targeting blacks and other voter groups
that heretofore have been reluctant to support the GOP.
   Some Republican Party officials are once again inclined to
eschew the black vote. While such a formula probably would
not hurt George Bush's re-election chances, it almost
certainly would doom the prospects of Republican hopefuls in
closely contested congressional races.
   In fact, five Senate seats are at stake this November --
in Alabama, California, Georgia, Louisiana and North Carolina
-- that would have gone over to the GOP in 1986 had
Republican candidates won just a quarter of black votes. As
it was, Democrats captured those seats and regained control
of the Senate.
   With eight months remaining until the general election,
George Bush must decide now if he will make more than a token
effort to win over a portion of the black vote. If he does
decide to compete with the Democrats, he will have several
trends working to his advantage.
   Most important, perhaps, blacks continue to dealign
themselves from the Democratic Party. In fact, the CBS-New
York Times poll mentioned above revealed that the number of
blacks calling themselves Democrats declined from 70% to 68%
between the 1984 and 1988 national elections and to 60% by
1990's mid-term elections. While black defectors have not
necessarily become Republicans, they do represent potential
recruits.
   A growing percentage of blacks are casting ballots for
Republicans in statewide contests. In the 1990 congressional
races, the GOP won 22% of black votes, up from 11% in 1982
and only 8% in 1984. The same numbers held in the
gubernatorial victory of Illinois Republican Jim Edgar, who
actually won 23% of the vote in Chicago's 19 black wards.
Gov. Edgar succeeded in wooing nearly one-quarter of black
votes by campaigning in the black community. "It's important
for Republicans not to write off the black vote," says Gov.
Edgar. "They need to spend time in the black community and
meet with the leaders. Not just the government leaders, but
the business leaders, the church leaders, the various people
who the rest of the black community look up to."
   This trend may be partially explained by demographics. A
recent survey by the Republican National Committee indicates
that while only 12% of the nation's black voters identify
themselves as Republicans, between 20% and 25% of young black
men between the ages of 18 and 34 align themselves with the
GOP. It so happens that this is one of the fastest-growing
cohorts within the black electorate.
   Meanwhile, surveys also reveal that an increasing number
of blacks look askance upon the traditional liberal policies
with which the Democratic Party is associated. This was borne
out by a 1988 Los Angeles Times poll, in which one of five
blacks described themselves as conservatives. Obviously,
since Mr. Bush received only one of 10 black votes, half of
these conservative blacks either voted reluctantly for the
liberal Michael Dukakis or sat out the election entirely.
   Finally, there is evidence of growing disaffection between
blacks and their putative leaders. This rift was most
apparent in the battle over the Thomas Supreme Court
nomination. While the black leadership almost unanimously
opposed the conservative black jurist, the mass of black
Americans supported Mr. Thomas by a 3-to-1 margin. A telling
concession of the black leadership's waning influence was
offered recently by no less a figure than Benjamin Hooks,
executive director of the NAACP. Mr. Hooks likened the civil
rights establishment to "a man treading water." "We're just
holding our own," he said.
   The goal of Mr. Bush and the Republicans should be to win
20% of the black vote this November. Given the various
trendlines pointing in the GOP's favor, if they fail to do so
it will be due largely to the party's unwillingness to
compete with the Democrats. This will all but guarantee that
the Republicans remain the minority party into the next
century.
   Mr. Bush should encourage blacks to become full
participants in America's twoparty system. He might be
surprised to find that more than a few take him up on the
offer. Another presidential election should not pass with
Republicans writing off the black vote and Democrats taking
the black vote for granted. President Bush can make sure that
this does not happen.
   ---
   Mr. Perkins is an editorial writer for the San Diego
Union-Tribune.