Spain's Brokers
   Are Undergoing
   Broad Changes
   ---
   Further Deregulation Brings
   Need for More Capital,
   Industry Consolidation
   ----
   By Carla Vitzthum
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
Now questions are being raised about the future of other
small and midsized brokerage firms that lack the market
volume and financial muscle to survive growing competition.
Many have already begun to trim staff and cut costs.
   "The panorama of the market is changing very rapidly,"
says Rafael Sarandeses, general manager of Madrid brokerage
firm Iberagentes. Credit Lyonnais recently raised its stake
in Iberagentes to 50% from 40%.
   Fernando Orteso, head of equities at Capital Markets
Equities S.A., says that "every day the big brokerages are
getting bigger and the smaller ones are getting smaller."
Amro Bank this year raised its stake in Capital Markets to
95% from 20%, and boosted the firm's capital tenfold to 1.5
billion pesetas (about $14.5 million).
   Spain's agentes de cambio, the traditional stock brokers
responsible for notarizing all security transactions,
gradually have been phased out of the market since the start
of deregulation in July 1989. Under the 1989 reform, the
agentes de cambio were given the choice of joining together
to form brokerage firms in which they collectively own at
least 70% of the capital or losing their stock brokering
rights. This shareholding requirement was reduced to 60% in
1990 and 50% in 1991. On Jan. 1, the restriction was lifted
altogether and banks, financial institutions and other
individuals are now free to own brokerage firms.
   Because the financial capacity of the agentes de cambio as
individuals is limited, a growing number have agreed to sell
their stakes to more powerful partners, normally to banks
that had been waiting eagerly for the Jan. 1 deadline.
   This year, J.P. Morgan Espana acquired all of the
brokerage firm J.P. Morgan SVB, while Banco Espanol de
Credito, or Banesto, bought out the two stock brokers that
were its partners in Banesto, Lombardia-Lacaci SVB.
   "Until now it's been an artificial situation," says Edward
Nicholson, general manager of Barclays de Zoete Wedd's
business in Spain. He says it's only natural that foreigners
and banks want to control and finance their operations.
Barclays, a unit of Barclays Bank PLC, currently owns 50% of
the brokerage firm Barclays, Pizarro  Recoder SVB. "But that
stake will increase," Mr. Nicholson says.
   As they gain financial strength, many brokerage firms have
requested to change their status from brokers, with a minimum
capital requirement of 150 million pesetas, to market-makers,
with a minimum requirement of 750 million pesetas, according
to the National Stock Exchange Commission. In Spain, brokers
can trade only on behalf of third parties, while
market-makers can also trade on their own account. The new
market-makers should help inject more liquidity into the
narrow Madrid Stock Exchange.
   Other big brokerage firms such as FG Inversiones
Bursatiles and Asesores Bursatiles plan to remain
independent, though FG says it may consider selling a
minority stake to a financial partner. Executives at Asesores
Bursatiles, 30%-owned by American International Group Inc.,
are expected to increase their shareholdings in the firm.
   Rather than sell out to a bank or a foreign giant, two
firms in Valencia, Cano, Piquer  Samper SVB and General de
Mediacion  Bolsa SVB, announced this month that they plan to
merge. A rash of similar alliances are expected to follow.
   The independent brokerage firms believe they can thrive
without a bank or foreign partner through offering
specialized and quality service. Reforms aimed at
streamlining the stock market's settlement system also will
enable small firms to offer services traditionally reserved
for banks. These changes, which include introducing an
electronic book-entry system, go into effect later this year.
   Also liberalized on Jan. 1 were brokers' commissions. The
move is expected to narrow operating margins through lower
fees and greater competition. As some brokerage firms get
bigger and push for more market share, the less-specialized
smaller firms may be edged out of the market. Many brokers
expect the number of stock exchange members to fall to fewer
than 25 from the 54 that existed on Jan. 1. (Then, there were
134 firms trading on the market, though 80 weren't exchange
members.)
   The fear, however, is that some brokerage firms may go too
far trying to undercut competitors. "There are going to be
many houses taking somewhat suicidal routes to survive," says
an executive at a Madrid firm.
   One case in which this may have happened is Ibercorp SVB.
Founded by former stock market President Manuel de la Concha,
Ibercorp was one of the first financial boutiques to enter
the Spanish market. Thanks to the reputation of its founders,
the firm was entrusted with the investment portfolios of
leading public figures, including Bank of Spain Governor
Mariano Rubio.
   Last week, the National Stock Exchange Commission
announced it will sanction Ibercorp for failing to cooperate
with an earlier inquiry into the firm's share dealings. The
investigation was reopened by the commission last week after
the Spanish news media reported new allegations of irregular
share operations.
   Now the whole Ibercorp group, including the brokerage
firm, is up for sale. Unlike other brokerage firms, however,
Ibercorp doesn't appear to have suitors.