Letters to the Editor:
   Common Sense on a Messy Subject
I freely admit that -- from a certain point of view -- a
rather seedy portrait of our city is easy to paint. What I
must protest, however, about your patronizing Dec. 10
page-one article on Fina Refinery and Port Arthur's Fairlea
community is the way your sneering tone trivializes a topic
that deserves your readers' thoughtful attention.
   Very simply, all Americans are absolutely dependent on
energy produced from a material that is smelly, messy,
expensive and complicated to produce, and dangerous to humans
and their environment. Port Arthur is a town that has been
built around providing this energy for almost all its
history. Back in the days when the Texas Railroad Commission
set the price of crude oil, our community was as close to a
real worker's paradise as the world will probably ever see;
gasoline cost less than 50 cents a gallon, and pollution was
just a minor nuisance nobody worried much about. We were
typical Americans.
   Now we've faced foreign control of our raw material,
catastrophic loss of economic strength (5,000 jobs lost in
eight years in this county) and the realization that
environmental concern is a top priority for everyone. We are
still a paradigm of the nation.
   There are several possible responses to the new reality.
One is to apply mandates and money indiscriminately to the
environmental fad of the year whether it produces much real
risk reduction or not. Another is to deny the immediacy of
the crisis in the guise of studying the problems for 20 more
years before doing anything.
   There is a middle ground founded on common sense, and our
industries are following it in more than one voluntary
project, in addition to the Environmental Protection Agency
regulations. In this case, in spite of imperfect motives and
imperfect processes, we have found a pragmatic, economically
feasible solution to a problem both Fina and the Fairlea
residents inherited and which we no longer find acceptable.
Assigning blame and arguing about the basis for making a
decision proved unproductive. Simple determination to break
out of the impasse worked.
   Fina deserves major commendation. But even more credit
goes to its assistant plant manager Ray Hall and plant
manager Joe Monk, unusually fine men personally and company
men who have the courage and genuine loyalty to their company
to push for a sensible and humane solution to a complicated
problem. To characterize their exemplary patience, honesty
and understanding, both on duty and off, their devotion to
finding and making the right decisions for their business and
their community as "caving-in" belittles citizens any mayor
in America would rightly consider her town mighty lucky to
have; and I can't let you get away with it, anymore than I
can let you call Port Arthur "grimy" without pointing out
that our beautiful lake is full of fish, our marshes full of
rare birds and wildlife, and we enjoy golfing, boating, bird
watching, hunting and fishing almost year-round with an
average of only five fewer sunny days a year than Miami --
with less congestion, less crime and at much less expense.
   When a reporter who comes over from Houston calls us
grimy, we just laugh.
   Mary Ellen Summerlin
   Mayor
   Port Arthur, Texas