New York State's
   Bonds Receive
   SP Downgrade
   ----
   By Kevin Pritchett
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
About $22 billion in debt is affected by SP's action. SP
lowered the rating on New York's general obligation bonds to
single-A-minus from single-A and continues to assess the
ratings outlook as "negative." The agency also downgraded
various agency debt, state moral obligations, contractual
obligations, lease purchase obligations, guarantees, and some
appropriation-backed bonds and school district ratings. The
agency previously lowered the state's rating in April 1990.
   SP cited the state's general fund deficit, caused partly
by the recession, major employment losses, rising
unemployment and anemic personal income growth, for the
downgrade. The agency said the state is facing its fifth
consecutive general fund operating deficit as the fiscal year
comes to a close March 31.
   Chronic annual fiscal deficits have resulted in the
accumulation of a negative $6.2 billion unreserved fund
balance, representing more than 20% of state general fund
operations, SP said.
   SP also said "failure by legislative and executive
leaders to come to a consensus resolution -- not only of the
fiscal 1992 imbalance, but also of the chronic structural
budgetary imbalances -- in a timely and permanent manner,
significantly increases credit risk." SP added that the use
of "one-shot gimmicks and other financial wizardry" would
only increase credit risk, "and could precipitate further
rate reduction."
   SP's move follows Moody's Investors Service Inc.'s
downgrading of about $14.2 billion of the state's
appropriation-backed bonds, also citing the state's deficits
and the failure of the Legislature and New York Gov. Mario
Cuomo to agree on a budget. Moody's, however, maintains its
single-A rating for the state's general obligations, but has
them under review for possible downgrade.
   The current fiscal year's deficit is at least $875 million
and could increase, while the deficit for the next fiscal
year is expected to be $3.5 billion.
   Gov. Cuomo this time didn't place the blame on the
Legislature for the downgrade, saying, "I don't think this is
time for recrimination. I think this is a time for reforming,
for curing, and for doing what we have to do to avoid it
happening still another time which it very well can."
   However, Sen. Ralph J. Marino, leader of the Republican
majority in the state Senate and the main opponent of Gov.
Cuomo in the recent acrimonious budget negotiations, still
blamed the Democraticcontrolled state Assembly for the SP
action. "The SP statement is clearly a major embarrassment
to the Democrats," he said. "As SP was warning against
reliance on one-shots and gimmicks, the Democrats were
pressuring me to agree to a budget plan of one-shots,
gimmicks and taxes."