LEISURE  ARTS -- Opera:
   Mr. Gockely's Hat Trick
   ----
   By Willard Spiegelman
Unsurprisingly, "Parsifal" was, both musically and
theatrically, the most important of the three works. Texans
are fond of their native sons and daughters, especially
controversial ones who have the good sense to leave town or
die (like Katherine Anne Porter, Robert Rauschenberg and
Janis Joplin). Mr. Wilson returned in triumph to set his
rendition, after its Hamburg premiere last spring, of
Wagner's last, huge music drama.
   No one, not even its most ardent fan, has ever wished that
"Parsifal" -- beautiful, abstract and symbolic as it is --
were longer. One might have feared that the combination of
Wagner's slowest, most religious opera with Mr. Wilson's
penchant for slow-moving, visually stunning but dramatically
irrational spectacle might have made for a long, sleepy and
pretentious night. Just the opposite was the case. Mr. Wilson
has finally produced a work that neither demeans nor ignores
the text he has chosen to illuminate.
   Not that he faithfully followed Wagner. The production was
most original for its omissions: no swan, no first-act
procession of knights, no second-act kiss by Kundry, no death
for Kundry (she simply walked offstage at the end), above all
no Grail. Instead, Mr. Wilson's lighting, done in
collaboration with Jennifer Tipton, turned the stage into a
glimmering wash of image and shadow, bereft of scenery except
for Klingsor's castle in Act 2, and the now notorious
descending fluorescent Life Saver that represented the Grail
temple in Acts 1 and 3. All of these were powerfully
affecting. So were the stylized (part tai chi, part Egyptian)
movements of the characters.
   More problematic were the liberties Mr. Wilson took with
the libretto, most notably in his visual suggestion that
Kundry actually gave birth to Parsifal during the prelude to
Act 1. (A strange child, a Macaulay Culkin clone, walked
across the stage at the beginning and the end of the opera.
Birth, death and rebirth, in one fey symbolic tot.)
   Mr. Wilson is an artist who, for better and worse, has
ideas. Some, like the child, or the too obvious stellar
imagery he gives the opera's close, seemed willful, perverse
or sentimental. Some of the costumes were ludicrous,
especially Parsifal's Act 1 outfit, which looked like a
castoff toga from a high school Latin banquet. The Flower
Maidens' gowns might have been taken from Elsa Lanchester's
wardrobe in "The Bride of Frankenstein." In Act 1, Amfortas
was propped upon a symbolic ironing board. And so on. Mostly,
though, everything was gripping and built toward a Wilsonian
version of Wagner's Total Artwork.
   The news on the musical front was even better than on the
visual one. Christoph Eschenbach, conductor of the Houston
Symphony since 1983, led his first Wagner opera with passion
and restraint, as needed. Mr. Eschenbach inspired his strings
to make lurid, passionate sounds at the start of Act 2, and
shimmering ones at the beginning of Act 3. The burnished
acoustics of the Brown Theater did well by the orchestra and,
more importantly, by the singers, an international cast of
mostly younger artists who acquitted themselves with
considerable success.
   Among them, the young American John Keyes, while no
physical match for Placido Domingo or Peter Hoffmann, sang
the title role ardently. Dunja Vejzovic had everything except
some of Kundry's highest notes, and performed Mr. Wilson's
choreographed gestures with startling clarity. Monte Pederson
projected both Amfortas's anguish and his relief, and Harry
Peeters turned Gurnemanz, surely opera's most lugubrious
bore, into a sympathetic figure. Richard Paul Fink sang
spectacularly as Klingsor on high in his stage tower.
   Meanwhile, in the Wortham Center's more intimate Cullen
Theater, "Desert of Roses" opened, appropriately, on
Valentine's Day, and continues through Saturday. HGO's Music
Director John DeMain conducted the chamber opera with
delicacy and wit. The score combined the best elements of
Philip Glass (with whom Mr. Moran has collaborated) with
those of Stravinsky (lovely use of woodwinds), even though
the whole seemed to verge toward musical comedy.
   Stella Zambalis and especially Jayne West led an ensemble
cast in this myth of female heroism. Ms. West, who looks like
Julie Andrews and has sung in everything from Mozart for
Peter Sellars to "Carousel" for Houston, turned herself into
a Beast-rescuing Beauty with conviction and fabulous legato.
   ---
   Mr. Spiegelman is the editor of the Southwest Review in
Dallas.