Global View:
   Thanks to SDI, a Global ABM System Is in Sight
   ----
   By George Melloan
Nine years later, the Reagan proposal is bearing fruit. In
his Jan. 31 speech at the United Nations, Russian President
Boris Yeltsin called on the U.S. to combine its Star Wars
efforts with Russian technology to provide all nations with a
missile defense. While the U.S. has not yet made a formal
response to the proposal, U.S. Defense Secretary Richard B.
Cheney called it a "major breakthrough." This positive U.S.
reaction was yet another sign that the early Reagan offer to
share defense technology was, and still is, a serious element
in U.S. national-security strategy.
   As for Mr. Yeltsin, the U.N. proposal displayed his
perceptiveness, something the West often has underrated.
Unlike America's Star Wars critics, he understands that a
global defense against a limited missile attack is very close
to technological feasibility, primarily as a result of a
decade of U.S. development. He understands as well that no
country is more in need of such a defense than Russia itself.
   As more and more nations acquire nuclear missiles, a MAD
doctrine, if it ever made sense, no longer does. How does MAD
protect against an actual madman? If an Iranian, for example,
launched a single nuclear missile at, say, Volgograd -- which
he could do with a rocket of only 700-mile range -- it
theoretically could kill 800,000 people, an incredible
catastrophe. What solace would there be for Russia in
retaliating against Tehran? It so happens that most of the
nuclear proliferation in the world is occurring near Russia's
borders, in North Korea, China, India, Pakistan, Iran and,
until recently, Iraq.
   Mr. Yeltsin has another reason for being conscious of the
importance of SDI. It played an important role in bringing
about the collapse of the Soviet Union. The knowledge that
the U.S.S.R. could not compete with the U.S. in a high-tech
arms race helped convince Mikhail Gorbachev that he must move
from confrontation to conciliation. His recognition that he
could not achieve conciliation and at the same time use
military force to hold the Soviet empire together forced him
to allow the empire to break up, producing the situation Mr.
Yeltsin has inherited. SDI, in short, helped the West win the
Cold War. While Ronald Reagan may never have expected SDI to
"destabilize" the U.S.-Soviet military relationship, it had
that effect anyway, primarily because the Russians feared the
advance of U.S. technology. Mr. Yeltsin has decided that, "if
you can't lick 'em, join 'em."
   But after a U.S.-Russian agreement in principle on
missile-defense cooperation, what about ways and means?
Interestingly enough, given the progress already made in the
U.S. on SDI development, that question is far less daunting
than it might at first seem. There is already an acronym for
it. It's called "GPALS" for Global Protection Against Limited
Strikes. On the basis of present knowledge, SDI experts have
little doubt that they can create a global missile-defense
system. It would depend partly on space-based sensors to
detect missile launches, and on small space-based
interceptors, "Brilliant Pebbles," to intercept the missile
and destroy it over the territory of the attacker.
Ground-based defenses would back up the "pebbles."
   Some of this technology was used in the Gulf War, which
has been described as the first "space war." U.S. military
reconnaissance satellites deployed over the Gulf were able to
spot Scud rocket launchings, aiding efforts to intercept
Scuds with ground-based Patriot missiles and to destroy
launchers. A global system would be far more sophisticated
although advocates of GPALS claim it could be deployed at a
cost of $46 billion in 1991 dollars spread over 14 years,
with the cost in no single year exceeding $7 billion. The
U.S. would supply and manage the space component, which could
be effective against limited attack with little more than
1,000 interceptor satellites. Cooperative use of the U.S.
system would obviate other countries cluttering space with
their own defensive satellite systems and possibly
interfering with launches of satellites for peaceful,
commercial purposes.
   Some military experts believe coordinating space and
ground-based defenses would be a logical role for the North
Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO), a 42-year-old defensive
alliance in which 15 nations work closely together, all but
France adhering to a single command structure. The
post-Communist nations of central Europe already have asked
NATO to put them under its security umbrella. NATO and
Russian officers are engaged in wide-ranging good will
discussions as well. What could better serve to finally close
the old Cold War gap than a cooperative effort to protect
against a limited strike from some rogue nation or terrorist
group? Russian ABM researchers have focused heavily on
targeting objects in space with high-energy beams from earth.
They might be able to bring significant technology to the
joint defense effort.
   Of course, there still are a lot of loose ends from the
old MAD days. The ABM treaty, although violated by the
Communists, still exists. Most of those loose ends consist of
nuclear warheads. George Bush and Mr. Yeltsin are talking
about sharp reductions in warhead arsenals and in today's
climate of greater trust, that seems feasible. The Russians
might accept U.S. help in disarming warheads. Mr. Bush's
target of no more than 4,500 on either side seems a
reasonable short-range objective.
   Even with 4,500 missiles each, the U.S and Russia would
still have incredible destructive power and would be capable
of overwhelming a GPALS defense. So clearly, a key argument
for a cooperative defense would be to foster the mutual trust
that will be essential if either country is to ever consider
itself truly safe from nuclear attack. That too argues for
basing the effort in NATO, which for 42 years has preserved
mutual trust among the military organizations of western
Europe.
   Ronald Reagan started more than even he imagined in 1983.
It is up to his successors to carry on and produce a safer
world.