FORM + FUNCTION
   ----
   By John Pierson
BOWING to the demands of the computer age, furniture and
lighting companies have begun producing a broader array of
lamps meant to light single desks or work stations.
   "A task lamp used to be a status symbol on the boss's
desk," says New York designer Stephan Copeland. "But with
computers needing lots of light, a task lamp has become an
important part of the common man's work station."
   Until recently, companies had a comparatively narrow
choice. Many task lights are built into the storage bins over
work stations, but these are often accused of causing glare.
Classic spring-arm "architect" lamps from Luxo are sometimes
dismissed as too utilitarian. Artemide's Tizio lamp is so
elegant, it starts at $360 list.
   So Details, a Steelcase unit, hired Mr. Copeland to design
a lamp that looked different and cost less. With the help of
engineers at Ideo in Palo Alto, Calif., he produced the Ios
lamp, which resembles a feeding flamingo. To cut the amount
of labor-intensive assembly, Ios was designed with only 25
parts, many in molded plastic. The lamp comes with a
cast-iron base, or it can attach to a cubicle wall. It lists
for $190.
   KnollExtra, a division of Westinghouse Electric's Knoll
Group, has a simpler solution. Knoll's Orchestra lamp,
created by Connecticut designers John Rizzi and Brooks Rorke,
looks like a wellbred mollusk perched on a telescoping pole.
The task lamp lists for $205 and up.
   Not everyone is impressed with the spate of new task
lamps. Most of them "are more concerned with looks than with
performance," says Mitchell Kohn, a lighting consultant in
Chicago. For most lamps on the market, he advises: "Buy it
but don't plug it in."
                                                                                                       

   Design Help Shaves Time
   Off Grinder Development
                                                                                                       

   IF YOU want to bring a product to market fast, don't try
to do it all yourself. Get design help and get it early.
   Ingersoll-Rand learned that lesson in developing its
Cyclone grinder, a power tool used in the auto, steel and
other industries. The story is documented in a case study by
the Corporate Design Foundation, Boston.
   Until Cyclone, Ingersoll-Rand was taking three or four
years to bring out a new product. But late in 1987, sales
director Richard Poore called for development of a new
grinder "that would knock the socks off the market." He
wanted it in one year.
   Breaking with past practice, Ingersoll brought in from the
start an outside designer, Group Four Design of Avon, Conn.
Unlike the manufacturer, which had always put engineering
first, Group Four wanted to shape the grinder from the
outside in. It also offered to give Ingersoll concept
drawings in just three weeks.
   The designer suggested a D-shaped handle to better fit the
operator's hand, a flange to keep the operator's hand away
from the spinning abrasives and a composite plastic exterior
to damp vibration and prevent the grinder from becoming cold
to the touch.
   At this point, Ingersoll brought in the composite
supplier, Phillips Plastics, and the maker of the abrasive
accessories, Minnesota Mining  Manufacturing. "We had never
gotten involved with accesories manufacturing as part of our
development process," says Jim Stryker, Ingersoll's head of
business development.
   One result of 3M's early involvement: a color-coding
system to match tool speed and appropriate accessories. "It's
something that normally would have taken years," Mr. Stryker
says.
   With all this early outside help, Ingersoll brought out
the Cyclone grinder in just over a year. The tool won an
award from the Industrial Designers Society of America. And
it has doubled the company's market share.
                                                                                                       

   Space-Heater Maker Is
   Cool to Sleek Models
                                                                                                       

   BEAUTY may be truth, but does it sell?
   For 35 years,  Cadet Manufacturing has been, in the words
of general manager Bruce Farnsworth, "a sheet-metal bender."
In 1989, the Vancouver, Wash., company decided that a
portable space heater might be, says Mr. Farnsworth,
"something other than just a box." Cadet hired Ziba Design of
Portland, Ore., to make the box beautiful.
   Ziba did more. It designed a full line of heaters, from
floorstanding to table-top to wall-mounted. Instead of metal,
the new Encore heaters are made of plastic. Instead of boxy
angles, they have wavy curves, meant to connote the comfort
of warm air. The controls are simple, and, to help
international sales, they communicate without words. The
small number of parts and the few screws make the heaters
easy to put together and take apart.
   Ziba did so well, Encore won a silver award from the
Industrial Designers Society of America. But Cadet hesitates.
It would want over $100 for each Encore, which would produce
no more heat than the plainest traditional model selling as
low as $15.
   "A niche exists for Encore," Mr. Farnsworth says. "But we
have to decide whether to exploit that compared to our other
opportunities."