Retailing:
   Home Shopping
   Talks to QVC
   About Merger
   ----
   By Laurie M. Grossman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The two retailers, which disclosed their talks after
markets had closed, described the discussions as
"exploratory" and said "no agreement or understanding has
been reached to date."
   In New York Stock Exchange trading, Home Shopping closed
at $8, down 12.5 cents a share. In over-the-counter trading,
QVC closed at $19.50, up 50 cents a share.
   A merger of Home Shopping and QVC would represent one of
the last major consolidations in an industry that has seen
most of its players fall by the wayside. As recently as the
mid-1980s, as many as 60 retailers were plying their products
on the airwaves, analysts estimate. But most were unable to
generate enough sales volume to cover the high costs of
starting up a network. What's more, each retailer was
fighting for space on a limited number of cable channels.
   Some companies were gobbled up by the industry giants.
QVC, for instance, acquired CVN Cos., the nation's
third-largest home shopping network, in 1989, and bought J.C.
Penney's shopping channel last year. Most concerns, however,
simply closed down.
   "Some entrepreneurs overestimated demand for the service,"
said Tom Adams of Paul Kagan Associates, a Carmel, Calif.,
consulting firm. "Everybody thought that people would fall
all over themselves to shop at home. But the fact is that
Americans like to shop. That's why there's malls."
   The two principal survivors, Home Shopping and QVC,
account for the bulk of sales in the $2 billion industry.
Home Shopping, based in St. Petersburg, Fla., reaches about
35 million households through the 11 UHF stations it owns,
and an additional 25 million cable subscribers, estimates
Harry Katica, an analyst with Raymond James  Associates in
St. Petersburg. QVC, based in West Chester, Pa., is available
to about 42 million cable subscribers. The company is
80%-owned by cable operators, including Tele-Communications
Inc. and Comcast Corp.
   A merger would play to the relative strengths of both
companies, analysts said. Home Shopping is known for its
advanced telecommunications and technology, while QVC is
credited with having a more polished retailing style and
inventory, according to Mr. Siris. QVC also markets to a more
upper middle-class audience, selling more apparel and
brand-name electronics, while Home Shopping has a lower-end
appeal, pushing more jewelry, collectibles and giftware, said
Barbara Wedelstaedt at Duff  Phelps Investment Research Co.
in Chicago.
   Analysts speculated that the networks might expand their
offerings rather than cut back their channels. Home Shopping
currently runs three networks, while QVC runs two. A combined
entity would be able to produce more segmented offerings,
such as an apparel channel, analysts said. It would also
provide more programming for late-night on regular network
TV, said Ms. Wedelstaedt.
   Home Shopping may also be exploring a combination to
bolster its stock. The one-time high flier has reported
relatively flat earnings in the past year, in part because of
a general downturn in retailing, said Ms. Wedelstaedt. A
merger might aid the company in paying down $200 million in
long-term debt from its ownership in the UHF stations.