But If Someone Stages a Mugging,
   It's Time to Vacate the `Theater'
   ----
   By Suein L. Hwang
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The goal is to force cynical New Yorkers to address such
issues as sexism, homelessness or, in this case, littering.
   The ferry performance was born during a three-day "Theater
for the Oppressed Workshop" ($250 per participant) held at
the school, a basement-turned-center for alternative
thinking. ("Danger] Piano may collapse before capitalism
does," reads the sign on an aged grand.)
   Augusto Boal, a charismatic Brazilian, explains the
technique he has been teaching for 20 years: "Invisible
Theater presents a scene of unrecognized or hidden social
violence, and people nearby become involved through the
necessity and urgency created by the situation itself."
   Sure enough, the ferry passengers are soon caught up in a
heated argument between two actors who had carelessly thrown
a bag on the floor and an environmentalist who asks them to
pick it up.
   "It's a ferry. Who cares? That's why they hire people to
pick things up," responds one of the litterers. "But we all
have to use the ferry and don't want to see garbage all over
the place," the actor-environmentalist insists.
   At first, the argument fails to generate steam. "God, I
wanted a quiet ride home," groans a real commuter, turning
from his book. "Ignore him," an elderly businessman advises
the environmentalist under his breath, clearly getting caught
up in the action. "He knows he's wrong, but he's not going to
stop arguing about it."
   Then another real passenger dives in: "Hey buddy] I hope
you live in the biggest dump and you enjoy it] I don't want
to live anywhere near you]" Meanwhile, the actor-passengers
keep stirring up reactions.
   The drama spirals until a soft-spoken Wall Street
commuter, not an actor, stands up and spontaneously invites
the other passengers to join Staten Island Citizens for Clean
Air. "I've never done anything like that before]" she later
gasps, wide-eyed. "This is fun]"