Gitano Posts Loss
   Of $66.7 Million
   For 4th Quarter
   ----
   By Teri Agins
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The restructuring charge was nearly double the $6.5
million that the company had previously said it would take.
The results were also hurt, Gitano said, by "unanticipated
year-end adjustments" of about $35 million, reflecting the
impact of merchandise sold at reduced prices and higher costs
in domestic production.
   Haim Dabah, Gitano's president, said that the company
elected to "accelerate our restructuring program and be
aggressive in writing down certain assets and {eliminating}
those which weren't profitable or weren't generating the
returns we demand."
   Losses have caused Gitano to be "out of compliance with
our banks' standard covenant requirements," said Mr. Dabah.
Gitano hasn't received waivers from its lenders yet, he said,
"but we have met with them and they have been supportive . .
. We expect to obtain revised agreements with the banks
shortly."
   Gitano shares were quoted yesterday at $19, up 12.5 cents,
in late trading on the New York Stock Exchange. The company
released its results after the close of regular trading.
   Mr. Dabah described Gitano's restructuring as an attempt
to "exit all those businesses that have caused us pain in the
past." In manufacturing, the company has moved from owning
and operating facilities to using independent contractors,
which will make it more cost efficient, he said.
   In retailing, Gitano is in the process of closing about 20
of its 104 stores by mid-year, including five to as many as
nine full-price stores. "We are going back to our original
focus of discount-outlet stores to support our wholesale
division," said Mr. Dabah.
   For all of 1991, Gitano posted a loss of $62.5 million, or
$3.90 a share, compared with net income of $8 million, or 54
cents a share, in 1990. Sales dropped 3.3% to $780.4 million
from $806.6 million.
   Gitano's order backlog at the end of February was $368
million, up 47% from a year earlier, Mr. Dabah said. The
company expects first-quarter profit to exceed that of a year
earlier, when Gitano had earnings of $2.5 million, or 16
cents a share, on sales of $194 million.