Senate Votes 50-47 for Tax-Cut Measure,
   Though It's Likely to Be Vetoed
   ---
   Slim Margin in House, Too
   Signals Little Chance
   For Successful Override
   ----
   By Jackie Calmes
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Yet House and Senate negotiators will take their work
seriously when they meet this week, probably starting
Wednesday, to resolve some knotty differences between their
separate tax-cut packages. Some individual provisions could
be revived if, as many expect, there is a bare-bones pact
worked out with the president later this year. In that case,
precedents set in this doomed tax bill could be critical. At
a minimum, the bill will stand as a Democratic manifesto in
an election year.
   The Democrats' final compromise is certain to include
higher taxes on high-income individuals to pay for the myriad
tax breaks, because both bills contain such tax increases.
For that reason, Mr. Bush has vowed to veto their bill. It is
also likely to include variations of most, if not all, of the
tax-cut provisions in Mr. Bush's own seven-point plan for
prodding the economy. Among them are provisions for reduced
capital-gains taxes, real-estate tax breaks and an extra
deduction to encourage businesses to purchase equipment this
year.
   But central to the package will be some tax relief geared
to middle-income taxpayers; that objective, in combination
with the tax increases on high-income people, is central to
the Democrats' pitch for tax "fairness." Mr. Bush omitted his
proposed tax cut for the middle class from his emergency
"action plan."
   Senate Finance Committee Chairman Lloyd Bentsen (D.,
Texas), chief sponsor of the Senate bill, said that Congress
"would come very close" to meeting the March 20 deadline Mr.
Bush set in his State of the Union address last January. But
Mr. Bush insisted then that Congress pass his plan. And he
added: "From the day after that, if it must be: the battle is
joined."
   But Sen. Bentsen asserted: "I've seen the president change
his mind before. If he does veto {the Democrats' bill},
hopefully we can sit down together and work out the
differences."
   For now, congressional Democrats seem eager to take on the
president. But first they have to agree among themselves.
   House and Senate Democrats are sharply split over the crux
of their effort to get tax relief for the middle class. The
House voted for a temporary tax credit of as much as $400 a
family this year and next. The exact amount is tied to a
worker's payroll-tax liability for Social Security; a couple
earning slightly more than $26,000 annually could claim the
maximum credit. In contrast, the Senate approved a
$300-a-child credit that would be permanent for families
earning less than $47,500 annually in adjusted gross income;
the credit would be gradually reduced for families earning
more than that amount, and eliminated for those with incomes
above $60,000.
   While the House credit aimed at workers is temporary, it
would reach far more households than the Senate's child
credit-an estimated 90 million households, compared with
about 18 million under the Senate provision. The House credit
also would be refundable to Americans with such low income
they pay little, if any, taxes. The Senate credit wouldn't be
refundable.
   Chairman Dan Rostenkowski (D., Ill.) of the House Ways and
Means Committee, sponsor of the House bill, is likely to give
ground because many Democrats want a tax credit to be
permanent and aimed at children. But many Democrats also want
it to be refundable because a quarter of all children live in
poor households. The hurdle is cost. The House and Senate
provisions account for as much as half the cost of the two
chambers' overall bills -- $46 billion for the two-year House
credit and $28 billion over five years for the Senate
version.
   Conferees also must decide who will pay higher income
taxes to finance the middle-class and business tax breaks.
Senators will insist that the income threshold for the new
tax rate be set much higher than the House proposed, hitting
fewer than 1% of the richest taxpayers. The House, meanwhile,
wants the new top marginal rate -- which comes on top of the
current scale of 15%, 28% and 31% -- to be 35% rather than
the Senate's proposed 36%. The difference is small but
politically important: Democrats like to note that even
President Reagan never proposed a top rate lower than 35% --
though the wealthy enjoyed more deductions back then.
   Some business-growth provisions should be easier to work
out. Both the House and Senate proposed an extra depreciation
allowance for businesses' purchases of new equipment this
year. The House proposed an additional 15% for 1992, and the
Senate proposed 10% spread over two years. The Senate's less
generous provision reflects the fact that cost estimates
ballooned after the House passed its version. The final
depreciation allowance, then, is likely to more closely
resemble the Senate's.
   The bills have similar provisions to restore deductions
for "passive losses" on existing rental properties, but the
House terms are more generous to the real-estate industry.
Rep. Rostenkowski will resist a Senate proposal for a $5,000
credit for firsttime home buyers who purchase newlybuilt
residences. He has objected to the overall cost to the
government. Beyond that, most homes sold in Chicago, his
hometown, are existing stock.
   The two bills vary greatly on proposals to reduce
capital-gains taxes. Neither approach squares with Mr. Bush's
broad-based idea to cut the top rate to 15.4% from 28%. The
House bill would index capital gains so taxes wouldn't be
paid on the sum due to inflation. The Senate voted for a
progressive tax scale, parallel to the income-tax scale; top
earners, who have the overwhelming share of assets to sell,
would see no change in their tax rate on the gains. The House
and Senate bills have similar capital-gains provisions to
encourage investment in small business stock.
   Two priorities of Sen. Bentsen will pose problems. The
Senate bill includes his proposal expanding the tax benefits
of Individual Retirement Accounts, but Rep. Rostenkowski
opposes that as too costly. Both sides, however, favor
allowing early, penalty-free withdrawals from IRAs for first
homes, medical and college costs. Sen. Bentsen also included
his separate legislation aimed at expanding health-insurance
coverage for small-business employees. But House Democrats,
and Senate Majority Leader George Mitchell (D., Maine), want
to pass those in a separate measure to spotlight the
politically loaded health issue this election year.
   House negotiators also will oppose many Senate amendments
added to Sen. Bentsen's original draft. Those include a
proposed new tax on coal companies to finance miners'
retirement health benefits. An amendment that stands a better
chance is Sen. Bentsen's own. In the final moments of debate,
without any description, he won acceptance of a proposal for
a new trade center -- in his homestate of Texas.
   ---
             Comparing the Competing Tax Plans
                                                                                                       

   MIDDLE-CLASS TAX RELIEF
                                                                                                       

   House -- A two-year tax credit of up to $400 for each
wage-earning family.
   Senate -- A permanent $300 tax credit for children under
16, for families with adjusted gross income below $47,500 a
year; families with up to $60,000 get a smaller credit.
   President Bush -- None*
                                                                                                       

   INCOME-TAX INCREASES
                                                                                                       

   House -- A new 35% top rate on taxable income exceeding
$85,000 a year for individuals and $145,000 for couples; a
10% surtax for millionaires; two-year extension, through
1997, of limits on deductions and personal exemptions for
high-income taxpayers.
   Senate -- Extra 10% depreciation write-off for equipment;
simplify the corporate alternative minimum tax, with added
relief for independent oil and gas drillers.
   President Bush -- Extra 15% depreciation allowance, and
simplification of the corporate alternative minimum tax.
                                                                                                       

   CAPITAL GAINS (Individuals)
                                                                                                       

   House -- For sales of new assets, no tax on gains due to
inflation; a top rate of 14% on sales of of new stock in
certain small businesses.
   Senate -- A graduated rate scale (5, 19, 23 and 28%)
parallel to the brackets for income taxes, on sales of new or
existing assets; 14% top rate for new stock in small
businesses.
   President Bush -- Lower maximum rate to 15.4% from 28% for
most assets, new and previously held.
                                                                                                       

   REAL ESTATE
                                                                                                       

   House -- Restore "passive loss" deductions for rental
losses on existing property to broad range of real-estate
entrepreneurs; extend depreciation period for commercial
property to 40 years from 31 1/2 years, and for residential
property to 31 years from 27 1/2.
   Senate -- More limited passive-loss provision; $5,000
credit for first homes, only if newly constructed; extend
depreciation period only for commercial property.
   President Bush -- More limited passive-loss provision;
$5,000 credit for first homes bought in 1992.
                                                                                                       

   INDIVIDUAL RETIREMENT ACCOUNTS
                                                                                                       

   House -- No tax penalty if early withdrawls used for first
homes, major medical costs and college expenses.
   Senate -- Penalty-free for first homes, medical and
education costs, new cars and, any purpose for those
unemployed more than 12 weeks. Also, expanded availability
and new tax breaks for IRAs.
   President Bush -- Penalty-free withdrawals for first
homes.
                                                                                                       

   EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION
                                                                                                       

   House -- Cap deduction at $1 million a year per corporate
officer.
   Senate -- Same as House.
   President Bush -- None.
                                                                                                       

   LUXURY TAXES
                                                                                                       

   House -- Repeal for yachts, private planes, jewelry and
furs. Retain for autos above $30,000, and index price for
inflation.
   Senate -- Same as Hosue.
   President Bush -- None*.
                                                                                                       

   EXPIRING TAX INCENTIVES
                                                                                                       

   House -- Make permanent a group of popular breaks,
including those for business research, low-income housing
development, mortgage-revenue bonds, employer-provided
educational aid; hiring the disadvantaged.
   Senate -- 18-month extension of those provisions.
   President Bush -- None*.
                                                                                                       

   HEALTH CARE
                                                                                                       

   House -- Extend for six months a 25% deduction or
health-insurance costs for self-employed.
   Senate -- Extend the self-employed deduction at 100%
level; new standards for coverage of small businesses'
employees.
   President Bush -- None*.
                                                                                                       

   INTANGIBLE ASSETS
                                                                                                       

   House -- New 14-year depreciation for "good will,"
subscriber lists, government-granted licenses and other
assets typically not allowed write-offs by IRS.
   Senate -- None.
   President Bush -- None.
                                                                                                       

   OTHER SIMILAR PROVISIONS
                                                                                                       

   House -- Bar "double dipping" that lets acquirers of
failed thrifts receive tax-free compensation and deductions
for losses; higher taxes on securities' firms inventories;
new deductions for interest on student loans.
   Senate -- Same.
   President Bush -- None*.
                                                                                                       

                                                                                                       

   *Mr. Bush has made proposals in this area, but didn't
include them in the seven-point plan sent to Congress for
quick action.