Your Money Matters -- Taxes 1992:
   Instinct May Not Serve Taxpayers Best
   When Hidden Options and New Law Lurk
   ----
   By Tom Herman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
When it comes to taxes, common sense may be your own worst
enemy.
   What may seem the most logical method of filling out a tax
return often is wrong. Or there may be an alternate method
that cuts a taxpayer's bill.
   Adding to the complexity are tax-law changes, court cases
and new Internal Revenue Service rulings.
   To make sure they don't pay too much, or underpay and risk
the wrath of the IRS, taxpayers have to be vigilant -- on the
alert for common mistakes, misperceptions and missed
opportunities. Here is a sampling suggested by accountants
and tax lawyers:
                                                                                                       

   JOB-HUNTING COSTS. If you or a member of your family was a
victim of the recession last year, take heart: Job-hunting
expenses may be deductible. These include telephone calls,
employment agency fees, resume preparation fees, and
traveling to and from interviews. Also remember that these
deductions are allowable whether or not you find a new job.
   But there are important catches. Job-hunting expenses fall
in the category of "miscellaneous" deductions, which are
generally limited to amounts exceeding 2% of adjusted gross
income. The IRS also says the costs are deductible only if
you are looking for a "new job in your present occupation."
For example, a lawyer may deduct the costs of looking for a
new job as a lawyer, but not as a stockbroker. Also, you
can't deduct anything if you are looking for work for the
first time; an example would be a recent college graduate
searching for his or her first job.
   This issue can be complex because of the difficulty in
defining what represents a "new occupation." Thus, if you
have significant amounts of job-hunting costs, it probably
pays to check the details of your case with a tax specialist,
rather than just assuming those expenses are not deductible.
   People who have been unemployed for a long time may face
an especially vexing problem: The IRS says you can't deduct
your expenses if there is a "substantial break in time
between the time of your last job and your looking for a new
one."
                                                                                                       

   INTEREST INCOME. Accountants say many taxpayers don't
realize that interest income from U.S. Treasury bills, notes
and bonds is tax-free at the state and local level. This can
make a big difference for taxpayers in high-tax states such
as California, Massachusetts, New Jersey and New York. Also,
interest from bonds issued on behalf of Resolution Trust
Corp., the savings-and-loan cleanup agency, is exempt from
state and local taxes. But interest on bonds of some
"government-sponsored entities," such as Federal National
Mortgage Association, typically is fully taxable at the state
and local level. Rules vary from state to state. It pays to
check with your revenue department.
                                                                                                       

   FILING SEPARATELY. While married couples generally find
it's best to file a joint return, it sometimes pays to file
separately, says Mark E. Bloom, a tax partner at BDO Seidman.
That's often the case, he says, when both spouses have income
and one has a large amount of medical expenses or
miscellaneous deductions.
   For example, consider a married couple, John and Mary. His
adjusted gross income last year was $70,000; she had $55,000.
His itemized deductions totaled $9,900, including only $500
in medical expenses and $3,500 in miscellaneous deductions.
Her itemized deductions totaled $13,300, including $7,000 in
medical costs and only $500 in miscellaneous deductions. If
they file separately, rather than jointly, they would save
$1,077 in federal taxes, according to BDO Seidman's national
tax office in Washington, D.C.
                                                                                                       

   ZERO-COUPON BONDS. These are bonds that don't pay interest
each year. Instead, investors buy the bonds at a discount
from face value. The investor's return is the difference
between the purchase price and the amount the investor
receives upon cashing in the bond upon maturity, or selling
it in the resale markets.
   Because zeros don't pay any interest each year, holders
may assume they don't owe any tax until they cash in the
bonds. Logical, but wrong. The IRS says holders are required
to pay tax on interest income each year on U.S. Treasury,
agency and corporate zero-coupon bonds even though they don't
actually receive any money. That is why many investors buy
tax-free municipal-bond zeros. Interest on U.S. Savings bonds
isn't affected by this rule. Also exempted from this rule are
short-term debt issues, those due to mature in not more than
one year from the date of issue.
                                                                                                       

   MUNICIPAL BONDS. Interest income on state and local
government bonds typically is free from all federal taxes. In
most states, investors who buy bonds issued by their home
state or in-state municipalities also don't owe any state or
local taxes. For example, a New Yorker who buys New York City
bonds doesn't owe any federal, state or local taxes.
   But a New Yorker who buys out-of-state bonds, such as
those issued by Connecticut, would owe New York State and New
York City tax on the interest. Some states have special rules
on out-of-state bonds, so be sure to check with your local
revenue department.
                                                                                                       

   TREASURY BILLS. If you buy Treasury bills and hold them to
maturity, there isn't much of a trick to figuring out the tax
treatment of your earnings. But it's another story if you
sell the bills before maturity.
   T-bills, cherished by investors for safety and security,
are sold by the government each week at a discount from face
value. The investor's return is the difference between the
purchase price and the redemption value when the bills come
due, or the price the investor receives from selling the
bills.
   If you paid $9,500 last July for six-month T-bills with a
$10,000 face value and held them until maturity in December,
you earned $500 in interest. Simple enough.
   But suppose you sold them on Aug. 29 for $9,800. Your gain
obviously was $300, but it's not all interest, according to
the Price Waterhouse Investors' Tax Adviser. Instead, Price
Waterhouse calculates that $167 of that amount was ordinary
interest income, and that the other $133 was a short-term
capital gain. That's an important distinction because the
capital-gain portion can be offset by capital losses to
reduce taxes.
   Price Waterhouse calculated this using a formula
allocating the total discount ($500) over the number of the
days that the bills were held. Divide $500 by 180 days, which
works out to $2.777. Multiply that by 60 days, for a total of
about $167.
                                                                                                       

   SOCIAL SECURITY. Did you switch jobs last year? If so, you
may have paid too much in Social Security, Medicare or
Railroad Retirement taxes and thus may be entitled to a
credit. Never assume each employer checked with the other to
see how much was withheld. Check your withholding against IRS
requirements.