Marketing  Media -- Advertising:
   As Prime-Time Commercial Load
   Grows, Firms Complain of Clutter
   ----
   By Joanne Lipman
The growing clutter "annoys the consumer and makes it
difficult (for advertisers) to communicate effectively,"
charges Richard Kostyra, an executive vice president of WPP
Group's J. Walter Thompson Co. Too many messages are "vying
for attention and remembrance."
   Advertisers have been complaining about commercial clutter
for years. But they've never had quite such potent evidence
to back them up. A study of the past eight years by the
association and another trade group, the Association of
National Advertisers, found that non-program time jumped by
14% at CBS and 13% at NBC, though it only edged up 2% at ABC.
Non-program time includes national and local ads as well as
network promos and the like.
   According to the study, CBS ran 11 minutes and six seconds
of ads per hour in 1991, up from nine minutes and 46 seconds
in 1983. General Electric's NBC ran 11 minutes of ads each
hour, and ABC, a unit of Capital Cities/ABC, ran 10 minutes
and 16 seconds.
   Those average figures mask even higher commercial loads
during the networks' most popular shows. According to Mr.
Kostyra, for example, while NBC averages 5.5 minutes of ads
each half-hour, it crammed more than six minutes into
episodes of its popular show "Empty Nest" last year. CBS's
"Murphy Brown" and ABC's "Who's the Boss" also devoted more
time than average to commercials and other non-program
material.
   "If the audience gets less and less programming, they'll
get turned off and stop watching," worries Arnie Semsky, an
executive vice president of Omnicom Group's BBDO ad agency.
"It's a real bad situation."
   Making a bad situation worse, competing advertisers are
often shoe-horned into the same programs. Ads for Nissan,
Honda and Toyota sedans, for example, show up on the same
shows with alarming frequency. The combination can be deadly:
New research by a marketing professor at Philadelphia's
Drexel University found that competitors airing spots in the
same program reduce their ads' memorability by a sobering 25%
to 40%.
   The research found NBC was by far the worst offender in
placing competing ads in the same programs. The issue of
"competitive clutter . . . could be an important tool in
negotiating rates," says Robert Kent, the marketing professor
who conducted the research. Advertisers, he suggests, should
either be demanding more exclusivity or "angling for lower
rates."
   Thompson's Mr. Kostyra, for one, says he plans to do just
that, taking clutter into account when he negotiates prices
for the 1992-93 TV season. He and other ad executives were
upset this past fall when, after they had already purchased
time, CBS and NBC admitted adding extra spots to some of
their prime-time hits. The issue is likely to come up when
the Association of National Advertisers convenes a TV
advertising conference in Manhattan tomorrow.
   Yet for all the ad executives' complaining, they have
little leverage. Marcella Rosen, an Ayer executive and part
of the group that met with the networks in December, says she
was heartened that all three networks indicated they have no
plans to increase their commercial load. Yet only ABC said it
hoped to reduce it. The networks have no incentive to cut
back: as long as viewers don't complain too loudly, why give
up commercial time that brings in $4,000 or more a second?
   "The viewer will determine" when clutter gets out of hand,
says Peter Chrisanthopoulos, president of the Network
Television Association, which participated in the December
talks. He also notes that, on average, the three networks
devote less time to commercials than Fox, cable networks, or
syndicated programs. "The networks still have a competitive
advantage over every other venue out there," he contends.
   At CBS, a spokesman says, "We are aware of their concerns
and obviously we will respond." Executives at ABC and NBC
couldn't be reached for comment.
   Advertisers, in a way, are as much to blame as the
networks for their cluttered predicament. They're the ones
who pressure the networks into squeezing them into a hit
show, even if the show is already sold out. And there's no
chance an advertiser is going to pass up the likes of "Murphy
Brown" for a dud with fewer commercials.
   "It's noble to try" demanding discounts or otherwise
penalizing cluttered shows, says BBDO's Mr. Semsky. "But I
don't know if it's really going to work. If the show you want
is cluttered, you may buy it anyway."
   ---
   Merrill Gets Animated
                                                                                                       

   Few advertisers are quite so somber as Merrill Lynch. With
its bull mascot and dignified tone, its ads positively
radiate strength, power, sobriety.
   So how about this for a change of pace: cartoons?
   In a new campaign airing heavily throughout CBS's coverage
of the Winter Olympic Games, Merrill is taking a highly
unorthodox route to push its mutual funds. It has created a
series of five animated ads, each illustrating a Merrill
Lynch twist an Aesop's fable, complete with a "moral" at the
end. Merrill plans to pour $10 million into CBS coverage and
major newspaper ads in just the next two weeks.
   The ads are based on drawings by artist Charles Santore,
whose lushly illustrated version of "Aesop's Fables," was
published in 1988 by Dilithium Press Ltd.'s Jelly Bean Press
division. One spot tells the tale of "The Fox and the Grape,"
in which a fox grows impatient when he can't reach grapes
high above his head. He sulks off -- just as a bunch of ripe
grapes falls to the ground. In the Merrill Lynch version of
the fable, the "moral" is, "Patience is a sound investment
principle -- as well as a virtue."
   The campaign is supposed to hammer home Merrill Lynch's
dominance in mutual funds. The big investment house has more
than $120 billion under management, making it the
second-largest mutual fund manager after Fidelity -- but
almost no one knows it. The ad blitz should get the message
across "to the audience in a way they can't ignore," says
Debbie L. Mandelker, director of marketing services for
Merrill's private client group.
   ---
   Ad Spending Uptick?
                                                                                                       

   In the first good news the ad business has heard in a long
time, a survey of major advertisers found 52% plan to
increase spending in 1992.
   The survey of 102 advertisers by DeWitt Media in New York
found that budget-cutting isn't dead yet. A full 25% said
they planned to spend less this year. But DeWitt sees cause
for optimism in the slight majority predicting increases.
   Network television may not benefit from the increase as
much as cable and some other venues, the survey suggests.
While 30% of advertisers polled believe cable TV is becoming
more effective over time, some 25% of respondents said
network television is becoming less effective. And an
overwhelming 97% said they disapproved of moves by CBS and
NBC to schedule more commercials during hit shows.
   ---
   Ad Notes. . . . .
                                                                                                       

   French agency Euro RSCG said it expects Eurocom's profit
to plunge 73% in 1991 to 147 million francs ($27.3 million)
from 554 million francs in 1990. Agency RSCG is expected to
show far wider losses of 280 million francs in 1991 vs. 70
million francs in 1990. Merging the two agencies will reduce
their combined debt from 1.65 billion francs to 1.15 billion
francs, the company said. The agency will issue convertible
bonds worth 660 million francs, priced at 685 francs each and
yielding 7.5% annually.
                                                                                                       

   ACCOUNTS: McElligott Wright Morrison White, Minneapolis,
walked away with U.S. Shoe's estimated $20 million account
for the Easy Spirit line. The media portion remains at Media
That Works, Cincinnati. MWMW bested Chicago agencies Leo
Burnett and Tatham RSCG. The incumbent was Advertising to
Women, New York. . . .
   Alitalia Airlines tapped D'Arcy, Masius, Benton  Bowles
for its estimated $6 million to $7 million North American
account, beating Young  Rubicam, New York, and the
incumbent, Ross Roy Group's Calet, Hirsch  Spector, New
York.

   VINCE AND LARRY: Public-service crash dummies Vince and
Larry appear as cartoons in animated commercials, via Bozell,
New York, for Tyco Toys Inc.'s Incredible Crash Dummies
action figures. The National Highway Traffic Safety
Administration licensed the pair for six months. After that,
Tyco is changing their names to Slick and Spin so as not to
jeopardize their public-service status, the company said.
                                                                                                       

   RUSSIAN MEDIA MONITOR: The Moscow office of Omnicom
Group's BBDO, the U.K. office of Gallup Organization Inc.,
and sponsorship agency Invizible Arts are measuring Russian
audiences for Western programming in a joint venture called
Russian Media Monitor. A panel of 2,000 viewers will tell
researchers what they watch. Early results show some 5% of
the population watches either CNN or BBC programming once a
week, compared with 10% for MTV.
                                                                                                       

   WHO'S NEWS: Hill, Holliday, Connors, Cosmopulos lured two
key creative executives -- David Wecal and Dean Noble -- from
the Volvo account at Euro RSCG's Messner, Vetere, Berger,
Carey, Schmetterer, New York. The two will oversee creative
work on the Infiniti account in Hill Holliday's Los Angeles
office, reporting to executive vice president Fred Bertino.
They had joined Messner from Omnicom's
Altschiller-Reitzfeld/Tracy-Locke last year, to work on Volvo
after Messner bested Altschiller in the Volvo review.