Politics & Policy:
   New Rules for '92 Democratic Primary Mean
   Chance of Early Nominee Amid Faster Pace
   ----
   By David Shribman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
But for all the speeches, the television ads, the tumult,
the rallies, the rhetorical thrusts and the strategic
calculations, the presidential contest is driven by campaign
rules -- and some of them have been overhauled since the 1988
race.
   These rules, seldom understood and frequently ignored,
give form to the Democratic campaign and will shape its
results. "This is a very rules-intensive party," says Thomas
Devine, who is directing the presidential campaign of Sen.
Bob Kerrey of Nebraska. "And though some people think you
should watch the campaign message, you win the nomination
when you understand the rules and you understand the
calendar."
   The rules of the road of the 1992 presidential election
mean that the New Hampshire primary will take on even greater
importance than before, that the endorsement of party leaders
is almost essential to win the Democratic nomination, that a
candidate who gets an early lead can wrap up the nomination
promptly -- but that the race might drag on until June or
beyond if no front-runner emerges swiftly.
   The rules mean, moreover, that before long the campaign
will take on a frenetic pace. More than any other, this race
will be compressed into the beginning of the course. The time
between the precinct caucuses here in Iowa and the regular
parade of primaries and caucuses that begins in March has
shrunk from 50 days in 1980 and 29 days in 1988 to only 21
this year.
   That changes the whole dynamic of the campaign. In 1976,
Jimmy Carter won the Iowa caucuses and then had several weeks
to raise money and build support. These candidates don't have
that luxury.
   "These early contests are even more important than before
because the early going influences greater numbers of
delegates," says Thomas Donilon, a Democratic strategist who
was a campaign aide to former Vice President Walter Mondale
in 1984. "And there's less breathing space. More than ever,
the most important thing southern voters will know about
certain candidates is that they will have won or lost earlier
states."
   The campaign is even more compressed because the first
event, Iowa's precinct caucuses on Feb. 10, isn't as
competitive as it has been in the past. With native son Tom
Harkin in the race, other Democrats have shied away from the
contest; Mr. Harkin, for example, has cornered the
endorsement of every Democratic member of both houses of the
state legislature. "Given the time remaining, the short
budgets and Harkin's presence in the race, the Iowa caucuses
here are vastly different this time," says former Iowa
Attorney General Tom Miller, who was Bruce Babbitt's campaign
chairman here four years ago. "We're not getting the
attention we got in the past and probably won't have the
impact, either."
   So the spotlight returns once again to New Hampshire,
which holds its primary eight days after the Iowa caucuses
and demands an especially intimate style of campaign.
   "This is a small state, and there are strong groups of
people -- the elderly, teachers, policemen -- who believe in
the tradition that we are the tryout ground," says Steven
McAuliff , a Concord, N.H., lawyer who headed Joseph Biden's
1988 campaign in the state. "It's a place where people who
aren't nationally known can get a hearing -- but the cost of
that is that you have to talk to real people and say real
things. If you try to short-cut it, the word gets around that
you're a `media candidate,' which is the worst reputation you
can have here."
   Beyond New Hampshire, the campaign rhythm will be
substantially different this time. Colorado and Maryland have
jumped ahead of the large group of primarily southern "Super
Tuesday" states and will hold their primaries March 3; when
the Georgia legislature reconvenes in two weeks, it may jump
its primary ahead a week as well. Then the following Saturday
come a number of caucuses and the South Carolina primary,
followed on March 10 by Super Tuesday, anchored by primaries
in Florida and Texas. And a week after that, Illinois and
Michigan, two battleground states in the industrial
heartland, hold their primaries on the same day.
   These calendar changes can have important implications. A
candidate with an early lead may have the chance to bring the
nomination struggle to a virtual close in mid-March, a period
when 214 House members also are selected as unpledged
delegates. The early surge of campaign activity gives a
candidate a chance to achieve a critical mass of delegates
and then gain the momentum he needs to attain the necessary
2,142 delegates to win nomination.
   The unpledged delegates, sometimes known as
"superdelegates," can play an important role in the campaign.
There were very few elected officials at the Democrats' 1980
convention in New York City, but the number has gradually
grown, reaching 648 in the last campaign and 766 this time.
Such officials now comprise about a fifth of the convention
and more than a third of those needed for nomination. "If you
don't get broad support from them," says Mr. Devine, "you're
not going to win the nomination.
   The Democrats also are campaigning under an overhauled
system of distributing convention delegates. In response to
demands the Rev. Jesse Jackson made at the Atlanta convention
four years ago, the party eliminated winner-take-all
primaries and primaries where the candidate who wins the
popular vote gets an additional delegate bonus. The old
system skewed the results: In 1984, Gary Hart won 38% of the
vote in the California primary and came away with 204
delegates, while Mr. Mondale won 35% but got only 73
delegates. That can't happen in 1992.
   Mr. Mondale and Gov. Michael Dukakis of Massachusetts won
Democratic nominations using rules that aren't applicable
today. They concentrated on states that weren't based on
proportional representation, primarily Illinois, Ohio and New
York, where they could build huge delegate margins simply by
winning, even if by a small margin.
   "You can't do that this time," says Anthony Corrado, a
Colby College political scientist and an authority on party
rules. "All the states are based on proportional
representation."
   The new system, distributing delegates strictly according
to the votes candidates win, makes for a different sort of
campaign, though analysts disagree about the implications.
Some analysts believe that the new system, fairer by any
measure, will make it difficult to thwart a candidate with an
early lead. But some also assert that the rule change could
severely slow the nomination process.
   "Proportional representation is tailormade for
troublemakers," says Elaine Kamarck, director of delegate
selection in the Mondale campaign in 1984 and deputy manager
of the 1988 Babbitt campaign. "This provision is perfect for
losers who want to muck around in the party. While
Republicans let their winners win, we let our losers plague
the winners."
   But campaigns aren't machines that run of themselves,
without human intervention. Democratic National Chairman
Ronald Brown has signaled that he won't hesitate to plunge
into the campaign and try to bring it to a crisp conclusion
rather than let it dribble on, week after week.
   "Since it's clear that we are serious about winning the
White House and since it's more and more apparent that it's
possible to do it, we should enhance those chances by having
a candidate early," the chairman says. "That way we can start
focusing all of our attention on George Bush rather than
depleting some of our energy by fighting with each other."