Marketing  Media:
   Time Warner Unit
   Agrees to Buy
   Macdonald  Co.
   ----
   By Meg Cox
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The deal is structured as a sale of individual assets
rather than the whole company, and Time Warner will be able
to choose among contracted books still in progress which ones
it wants to publish in the future. More significantly, Time
Warner won't be taking on any of Macdonald's liabilities,
including an intercompany loan from Maxwell Communication
that was a major factor leading to the parent's bankruptcy.
   The purchase of Macdonald will give Time Warner a major
position in the British book world, enhancing its
distribution of U.S. titles throughout Europe and giving it
the chance to bid for all English-language rights when it
acquires books rather than just U.S. rights. Time Warner has
been interested in expanding its book operations globally,
but has been outbid in previous sales of British publishers.
Currently, Little, Brown has a very small operation in
London, which published just 10 titles last year and runs
with a single editor. That operation will be merged into
Macdonald.
   Macdonald "hasn't been profitable, but it's our belief
that it can be turned around instantly," said Laurence
Kirshbaum, president of Warner Books. "We're acquiring the
best assets and people and it's a business we really know how
to run. It has about the same number of people we do, and its
list is much like ours." Macdonald has been the British
paperback publisher of many Little, Brown and Warner titles,
including novels by Janet Dailey.
   Macdonald published about 500 titles last year, including
both hardcover and paperback, but that will probably be cut
in half, said Charles Hayward, president and publisher of
Little, Brown.
   Macdonald, which will likely be renamed, will continue to
be run by Philippa Harrison, managing director since October.
Ms. Harrison, an experienced British publisher, said she
thinks the company's prospects are much brighter without "the
mercurial interference of Mr. {Robert} Maxwell." During the
decade Maxwell Communication owned Macdonald, she said, there
was constant management upheaval, and Mr. Maxwell failed to
invest money in such areas as distribution.
   Mr. Hayward said he expects the sale to be completed
within a couple of weeks.
   Among those who expressed interest in or made bids for
Macdonald were Paramount Communication Inc.'s Simon 
Schuster, and several former managing directors of Macdonald
who went on to start new publishing businesses.