LEISURE  ARTS:
   What Betty Coed Wore
   ----
   By Gail King
On Dec. 29, 1890, Northwestern student Myrtle Whitney
spent $1 for "March mallows," followed shortly by 43 cents
for grapes and macaroons. In letters home, Myrtle pleaded for
food, cash and fittinginable clothes, including a $30
velvet-and-lace outfit. Apparently Mama suggested a more
restrained frock and Myrtle replied, "As for getting one not
trimmed very elaborately, if I have one at all I want a nice
one."
   The exhibit's primary focus is on clothing, but the
clothes tell a story beyond fashion. The 1890s bloomered gym
suit demonstrates that decade's acceptance of the importance
of rigorous exercise and active sports for women. Sports
rules were, however, adjusted for women, because "unless a
game as exciting as basketball is carefully guided by such
rules as will eliminate roughness, the great desire to win
and the excitement of the game will make our women do sadly
unwomanly things."
   While clothing styles changed dramatically over the
decades, the desire to fit in remained. "The notion of
conforming to the peer group is constant, but in the 1890s
and the '40s that also meant conforming to larger societal
values, so that even though women in the '90s were stretching
the rules by wearing bloomers for exercise or walking skirts
that were five inches above the ground, they still felt the
need to conform to conventions of femininity," Ms. Schreier
says. "Those small acts of rebellion were confined to
sex-segregated environments, whereas in the '20s and the '60s
students not only wanted to change the campus but also the
world. In the 1920s, parents no longer understood their
children and the kids no longer cared, leading to rebellion
that focused on the acts of smoking, dancing, drinking and
sex."
   College men of the 1920s revived knickers as a way of
emphasizing the pleasures of leisure, and they rebelled
against the niceties of their elders by wearing their
corduroys dirty. College women yanked their skirts above
their knees, lipsticked their mouths into kissable bows, and
perched cloches atop their bobbed hair.
   The revolution in the lives of American women that came
about between the walking suit of the 1890s and the flapper
dress of the 1920s is astonishing, even viewed in the light
of subsequent changes. Viewed in that same light, it is also
understandable. It is the next segment, Going for the Mrs.,
that seems almost incomprehensible today. (Even to those of
us who got one.) While rolling bandages and knitting socks
for the war effort and taking advantage of the absence of men
on campus to enroll in traditionally male-dominated fields
such as meteorology and engineering, women saw the scarcity
of men as a challenge. Getting married became the ultimate
way to fit in. Intent on hooking a man, women changed not
only their dress (to conservative) but also their
personalities (to dumb).
   The clean, pressed and carefully cuffed dungarees of the
'40s evolved into the jeans of the '60s, but little else in
the '60s would have been recognizable to a '40s college
student. The pill, Vietnam, the fight for civil rights,
drugs, rock 'n' roll -- these changed college life forever.
Or maybe not. The college students who produce a student ID
to gain free admittance to "Fitting In" wear clothes with
uncanny resemblances to those on the '40s mannequins.
   Today's students are asked to complete a short
questionnaire. The society wants the answers for its files,
and participation is encouraged by a weekly drawing for
prizes, including overnights at prominent hotels. Myrtle
would have fainted at the thought. Keri Lorenzen, a junior at
De Paul University, won the first week's drawing. She wrote
that her wardrobe staple is a sweatshirt, and that the item
she can't live without in her dorm room is a television;
others have written of the importance of a tape player,
telephone, refrigerator and computer. Myrtle would have
needed all those items explained, but once enlightened, she
surely would have fit right in and ask Mama to order the best
available.
   "Fitting In" is up at the historical society, Clark Street
at North Avenue, until April 12. The 76-page catalog, by Ms.
Schreier, includes 121 photographs and is available for
$12.95.
   ---
   Ms. King is a free-lance writer based in Henderson, Ky.