Law:
   Supreme Court to Decide Iowa Tax Case
   Over Dividends Firms Collect Abroad
   ----
   By Paul M. Barrett
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
A decision supporting Iowa, moreover, would encourage
other cash-hungry states to tax the foreign-subsidiary
dividends of multinationals.
   Like most states, Iowa taxes a portion of the income of
out-of-state companies that operate in-state. Kraft, a Philip
Morris Cos. unit based in Glenview, Ill., pays taxes to Iowa
on this basis.
   In 1981, the year in question in this case, Kraft was
assessed $39,000 in Iowa income taxes, of which about $17,000
was tax on dividends from Kraft subsidiaries abroad.
   Kraft sued, objecting that since Iowa exempted dividend
income from U.S. subsidiaries, the tax unconstitutionally
discriminated against foreign business.
   But the Iowa Supreme Court upheld the tax, stressing that
because the state doesn't favor Iowa businesses over other
domestic businesses, "no impermissible discrimination
exists." The U.S. Justice Department supported the Iowa
court's decision, emphasizing another reason for the
disparate tax treatment: The income of a domestic subsidiary
"has already been subjected to a federal tax before it pays
dividends, but the income of a foreign subsidiary has not."
Exempting the domestic-subsidiary dividends thus prevents
double-taxation, the Justice Department said in a brief
urging the Supreme Court not to review the case.
   The Iowa court's decision "appears to conflict," however,
with an 1878 Supreme Court decision that struck down a
Pennsylvania tax on goods sold at auction that exempted goods
of "American growth or manufacture," according to Mark Evans,
a Washington attorney who specializes in tax and
constitutional law.
   The other states with laws resembling Iowa's are Colorado,
Kansas, Maine, Missouri, New Mexico, Oklahoma, Rhode Island,
South Carolina and Vermont. (Kraft General Foods Inc. vs.
Iowa)
   In other action, the high court:
   -- Agreed to hear the Justice Department's appeal of the
reversal of the 1988 convictions of Anthony Salerno and seven
other alleged organized-crime figures in a huge investigation
of bid-rigging in the New York concrete industry. (U.S. vs.
Salerno)
   -- Let stand a ruling that natural-gas producers leasing
offshore federal land must pay royalties to the U.S. based on
the value of the gas after it is prepared for sale, rather
than on the lower value of the "raw" gas at the time of
extraction.
   The justices declined to disturb a ruling by the federal
appeals court in New Orleans, which had upheld a regulatory
decision by the Department of Interior. The department
oversees offshore recovery of oil and gas. The regulation in
question could cost natural-gas producers millions of dollars
a year. Mesa Operating L.P., a unit of Mesa Limited
Partnership, had challenged the federal regulation. (Mesa
Operating L.P. vs. U.S.)