International:
   BSN Launches Bid for Exor in Hopes
   Of Winning Perrier at Bargaining Table
   ----
   By E.S. Browning
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
What's odd about the bid is that BSN doesn't actually want
to control either Exor or Perrier. Rather, BSN Chairman
Antoine Riboud said, the bid aims to force the Agnellis to
the bargaining table.
   He wants the Agnellis, who control extensive Italian
interests including Fiat S.p.A., to give up Perrier so he and
Nestle can divide it up. BSN would take Perrier's Volvic
mineral water and Nestle would take the rest of the group,
including such water brands as Contrex, Arrowhead and Poland
Spring as well as the trademark bubbly Perrier water.
   Mr. Riboud said the Agnellis could keep Exor's other
assets, including renowned Bordeaux wine maker Chateau
Margaux and lots of expensive Paris real estate.
   The Agnellis rejected that plan early in January, leading
to the current battle, which began when Nestle launched a
direct bid for Perrier in collaboration with Banque Indosuez
and BSN.
   How the Agnellis will respond to the latest tough talk
remains to be seen. Officials close to the Agnelli group said
Friday that the Agnellis won't bow to the BSN bid for Exor.
But the Agnellis have avoided talking recently about whether
they are willing to negotiate.
   Stock analysts are beginning to conclude that the mounting
pressure, which also includes a raft of legal cases that
could drag on for months, eventually will force some sort of
compromise. That probably would mean a breakup of Perrier.
   What strikes the analysts as even more important, however,
is the de facto alliance between two of Europe's biggest food
competitors, BSN and Nestle. Nestle is Europe's biggest food
group and BSN is its third-largest, after Unilever. Already
last month, the two food giants got Czechoslovak state
approval to divide up that country's biggest cookie and
chocolate maker, Cokoladovny Prague.
   BSN and Nestle are sensitive to antitrust concerns --
including a charge brought by the Agnellis and their allies
before French antitrust authorities that the Nestle-BSN
alliance is anti-competitive. They stress that they remain
fierce competitors. But Mr. Riboud openly defends the idea
that he and Nestle should together dominate such markets as
European mineral water. If they succeed in dividing Perrier
between them, BSN officials say, they will each own about 20%
of the mineral water market in Western Europe, and even more
of the market in France.
   Mr. Riboud said that even if the Agnellis had let him
cooperate with them in their own move to control Exor, as he
initially asked them to do, he still would have tried to
split up Perrier with Nestle.
   BSN currently controls such brands as Evian and Badoit in
France and Sangemini in Italy, while Nestle controls France's
Vittel and other brands in such countries as Germany and
Britain.
   The battle for Perrier first began in November, when the
Agnellis announced that they had boosted their stake in Exor
above one-third, in a friendly share purchase from Exor's
founding family. To comply with French market regulations,
the Agnellis launched a 1,320-franc-a-share bid for Exor.