R.H. Macy Prepares Chapter 11 Filing
   After Tisch Rescue Plan Falls Through
   ----
   By George Anders and Jeffrey A. Trachtenberg
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
In a painful turn of events for Macy, creditors and trade
suppliers now widely regard Chapter 11 as the big retailer's
best means of coping with unmanageable debt and a badly
slumping business. In Chapter 11, Macy will be able to obtain
fresh bank loans with which to buy inventory; it also will be
allowed to waive interest payments on its existing $3.7
billion of debt until that debt is restructured.
   As recently as Jan. 11, Macy Chairman Edward Finkelstein
had insisted in an interview that a bankruptcy filing wasn't
in Macy's interests. Since then, however, Macy's record
losses have continued to mount, according to people privy to
the retailer's internal financial data. Macy currently is so
strapped for cash that it remains unable to pay vendors for
goods shipped as far back as November. Earlier this month,
Macy had told vendors they would be paid this past Saturday.
   On Friday, Macy's last major hope of avoiding a drawn-out
bankruptcy reorganization collapsed when investor Laurence
Tisch called off a proposed $1 billion rescue of the company.
Mr. Tisch sought -- but failed to get -- interest-rate
concessions from a major Macy lender, Prudential Insurance
Co. of America. People familiar with the talks say Mr.
Tisch's interest also may have cooled amid signs that bank
lending to Macy was contracting and that a turnaround of Macy
could have cost $100 million more than he had envisioned.
   Macy's Mr. Finkelstein acknowledged Saturday evening in a
conference call to his division managers that the company
hadn't any choice but to prepare a bankruptcy-law filing,
according to people familiar with that phone call. In it, Mr.
Finkelstein said he didn't see any prospect that the talks
with Mr. Tisch could be quickly revived.
   Macy -- which operates more than 250 department and
specialty stores around the country -- stands to become the
latest in a long series of department store groups that took
on big debts in the 1980s to end up in Chapter 11. Macy had
gone private in 1986 in a $3.7 billion leveraged buy-out led
by Mr. Finkelstein.
   The track record of other retailing bankruptcies, notably
Federated Department Stores Corp., suggests that a big chain
such as Macy will be able to emerge from Chapter 11 in the
next six months to two years, largely intact. Macy is likely
to end up somewhat smaller, however. In addition, controlling
ownership of the retailer is almost certain to be handed over
to creditors in exchange for debt relief.
   Repercussions of a Macy bankruptcy filing will be felt
nationwide. Most of Macy's more than 20,000 suppliers will
become creditors in a restructuring of the company. In all,
Macy is said to owe them $150 million to $250 million.
   "A lot of smaller companies could be hurt," said Jon Levy,
president of the Gilliam Group, a leading women's apparel
maker and a major supplier to Macy. "If this is a sloppy
bankruptcy, there could be an inordinate amount of time
before people can ship. And if consumers walk in and can't
find what they want, they'll go to Macy's competitors."
   Lenders to Macy say the retailer is currently arranging
special Chapter 11 credit lines, known as
debtor-in-possession financing, with a unit of Chemical
Banking Corp. Estimates are that Macy will obtain at least
$500 million of such credit lines, thereby winning back the
confidence of its suppliers and ensuring that it can restock
its somewhat depleted stores.
   Once the financing is secured, most believe that Macy
vendors will begin shipping immediately. "I'm sure that
whatever lines they get will be sufficient to meet their
needs, and we intend to begin approving orders to Macy as
soon as Macy gets a debtor-in-possession financing number,"
says David Finkelstein, executive vice president for Century
Business Credit Corp., a New York factoring and financial
services firm. "They'll get the merchandise they need." David
Finkelstein is not related to Macy's chairman.
   The expected Macy filing will come as the retailer clears
out unsold fall and winter merchandise in anticipation of
lighter-weight, bolder-colored spring goods. If the
debtor-in-possession financing is approved quickly, vendors
said, all will ship Macy's full complement of spring goods.
   "We still think Macy is a viable company," said John
Pomerantz, chief executive officer of Leslie Fay Cos., a
major apparel company that sells more than $46 million of
goods to Macy a year. "If they do file, we will then look to
increase our business in hopes of making up our losses." Mr.
Pomerantz noted that a Macy Chapter 11 filing would hurt his
company's earnings by about five cents a share.
   Smaller manufacturers, too, indicated they would support
Macy. Tom Puls, chief executive officer of Donna Ricco Inc.,
a maker of women's clothes, said Macy owed his company a
modest sum and that he would proceed with February shipments
as planned. "If they waited another month to file, they might
have missed spring altogether," said Mr. Puls.
   Macy apparently signaled some suppliers to halt shipments
in the last two weeks, a decision that may have reduced the
exposure of those companies to a bankruptcy filing, said
Arnold Cohen, president of Mahoney Cohen  Co., a leading
accounting firm in the apparel industry. "In today's
environment, a Macy bankruptcy filing would actually make
them a preferred customer, because vendors know that they'll
be paid first," observed Mr. Cohen.
   Macy's difficulties were compounded late Friday by the
collapse of a rescue attempt by Mr. Tisch, a Macy director
who owns 15.6% of the company. Mr. Tisch had earmarked $80
million to cash out all other stockholders, who had paid more
than $500 million for their stock. And he proposed spending
$740 million to retire Macy's junk bonds at a discount to
their $1.3 billion face value.
   The proposal by Mr. Tisch and his son James, however,
lasted less than a day after it was announced Friday morning.
The Tisches wanted deep concessions from other investors at
an unrealistically swift pace, said Merrill Lynch  Co.
analyst Mitch Bartlett.
   On Friday afternoon, Prudential, which holds $811 million
in mortgage loans to Macy, balked at the Tisches' proposal to
lower the interest rate on those loans to 9% from the current
12%. At about 6 p.m. EST Friday, Mr. Tisch announced that he
was abandoning his rescue bid.
   But Frank MacDougal, Prudential's chief of mortgage
lending, said: "It's very unfair to say that it came down to
the Pru not going along. We believe we were flexible. This
company has 14 or 15 different groups of creditors. We
weren't by any stretch the only ones" who hadn't yet agreed
to the Tisches' terms.
   Macy's junk bonds Friday jumped about 10 cents on the
dollar on traders' hopes that the Tisch rescue plan could be
completed. News of the Tisch talks' collapse came after the
close of trading. Analysts said the bonds are likely to
plummet today as the company's bankruptcy scenario unfolds.
   Macy executives may find it more difficult to operate in
Chapter 11 than they anticipate. All major decisions must be
approved by the bankruptcy court. And other retailers that
have been through the experience say the process itself
becomes burdensome.
   "Your emphasis is off the content of the merchandise and
onto the details of cash flow and the mechanics of
bankruptcy," said Elayne Garofolo, former senior vice
president of marketing at Bonwit Teller, which filed for
Chapter 11 bankruptcy in August 1989.
   "The most important issue at hand is how to keep your
customer franchise and to sustain a level of customer
communication through advertising and other sales promotion
tools. You have to retain your franchise."