LEISURE & ARTS:
   TV: Murder, Salvation, Hard Times in a Changed Economy
   ----
   By Dorothy Rabinowitz
The weight of deadly predictability hangs heavy on this
film about a Harlem preppy. Edmund Perry was killed in New
York in 1985 shortly after his graduation from Exeter. The
undisputable facts of the case were that Mr. Perry, who dealt
drugs while at school, jumped a white man who turned out to
be a cop and shot the boy to death. In the film, everyone,
including the black teacher who labored mightily to get the
youth into the honors program, is responsible for his death.
Author Robert Sam Anson, who wrote the book on which this
mind-numbing sociological tract is based, recently explained
that young black people like Edmund Perry do what they do
because of "a fantastic amount of pain, losing their homes
and coming into conflicts with institutional racism."
   One might imagine, from this description, that the author
is referring to young people abandoned by the world and left
to die in the streets. But no. Mr. Anson is describing, in
this fantastic recital, the torments supposedly visited on
young Perry because he had the chance to attend America's
most illustrious prep school and then was granted a full
scholarship to Stanford. Between Mr. Anson and the grinding
tendentiousness of the movie script by Richard Wesley, this
becomes a story in which rich white preppies corrupt young
Perry and push him into drug taking and criminality.
   9-11 p.m EST, on NBC.
                                                                                                       

                       Tuesday, Jan. 7
                     Miles From Nowhere
                                                                                                       

   A generally soppy story about triumph over the odds that
manages to be absorbing and sometimes even inventive, if you
don't count the fact that the opening scenes are a direct
steal from "Born on the Fourth of July." The real attraction
in this movie about a young man's guilt-driven effort to save
a crippled younger brother is the nifty performance by James
Farentino. Rick Schroder of the rippling torso is here again,
all jeans and T-shirt for what seems like his hundreth role
as a disaffected working-class hunk. Somebody get this lad a
business suit and let him do something else.
   9-11 EST, on CBS.
                                                                                                       

                      Wednesday, Jan. 8
               Minimum Wages: The New Economy
                      With Bill Moyers
                                                                                                       

   A look at hard times through the eyes of the working poor
and the newly unemployed. This grim documentary succeeds in
getting under the skin of its subjects, all once good earners
now confronting the results of a changed economy, relocated
factories and drastically lower pay for work that once
commanded the sort of wages that persuaded couples like those
interviewed that they could afford to buy the houses they now
are losing to the banks. Some interviewees are models of
endurance who won't let themselves get ground down, among
them a real estate agent and her equally impressive husband.
Not everyone, however, is capable of the husband's eminently
sane view that everybody had better adjust and stop thinking
about the money he used to make. One depressed young husband
and father, unable to cope with his new status as a
non-earner and the accompanying financial terror,
contemplates divorce as a way out of his trouble. The
remarkable force of the grief etched in his face and his
silences makes for a bleak but powerful portrait-- like the
film as a whole.
   9-10 EST, on PBS. PBS air dates and times vary so check
local listings.
                                                                                                       

                      Thursday, Jan. 9
                      Artists in Crime
                                                                                                       

   Another chief inspector with an incredibly complicated
spiritual life shows up on "Mystery]" The creation of Ngaio
Marsh, this sleuth is the slightly neurasthenic but appealing
detective Alleyn, played by Simon Williams, who is best known
to Americans as the young wastrel James Bellamy of "Upstairs
Downstairs." That James, recall, was psychologically
destroyed by the horrors of service in World War I. Here,
too, Mr. Williams plays -- and wonderfully -- a man who has
seen too much of battlefields and bodies, this time those of
World War II. Still, aside from a tendency to get unhinged
when when encountering corpses, which he does quite a lot in
his line of work, Inspector Alleyn gives a very good account
of himself as a policeman. Set in the '40s, this handsomely
mounted and suspenseful drama of homosexuals, transvestites
and other denizens of the art world ripe for blackmail is the
best "Mystery]" of the season.
   9-10 p.m. EST, on PBS. Part two airs the following week.
                                                                                                       

                       Monday, Jan. 13
                    Love in the Cold War
                                                                                                       

   Another dazzling chapter in "The American Experience,"
this one concerns the life and times of Eugene Dennis,
general secretary of the Communist Party, U.S.A. It is the
extraordinary story of near lifetime service to the party and
one, it need hardly be said, that couldn't be more timely.
Told through the eyes of Eugene Dennis's son and his wife,
Ruth, it is packed solid with footage of rallies,
confrontations, the place that used to be known as the Soviet
Union till a week or so ago, and high drama all the way.
   9-10 p.m. EST, on PBS.