International:
   Japan's Trade Surplus Grew 84%
   In December to Record $10 Billion
   ---
   Continued Rise Is Expected
   To Increase Controversy
   Over Nation's Practices
   ----
   By Christopher J. Chipello
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
With the U.S. facing a sluggish economy during an election
year, the trade imbalance has prompted calls for
protectionist measures aimed at Japan and led President Bush
to focus on trade during his recent visit here. Officials in
Asian and European countries, which accounted for most of the
growth in Japan's surplus in the past year, also have
expressed alarm at the imbalance.
   The latest monthly increase exceeded market expectations
and might influence policy makers from the Group of Seven
industrial nations, who meet this weekend in New York to
discuss foreign exchange rates and other economic issues. The
U.S. and Japanese central banks last week intervened on the
foreign exchange market to support the yen, and the widening
trade surplus is likely to bolster the argument for a strong
Japanese currency, which would make exports from Japan more
expensive and imports less so.
   The big surplus also could increase pressure for Japan to
promote consumer spending at home, a concept that Prime
Minister Kiichi Miyazawa endorsed last week in commissioning
a panel to draw up a new five-year economic plan. And it
certainly will raise the pressure on Japanese companies to
meet the import goals laid out during President Bush's visit,
despite statements by Japanese officials that they can't
guarantee private-sector purchases.
   In December, Japan's trade surplus, as measured when goods
passed through customs, jumped to $10 billion from $5.44
billion a year earlier. Exports rose 4.2%, to $29.56 billion
from $28.37 billion, while imports fell 15%, to $19.55
billion from $22.93 billion. Even though oil imports dropped
only 6.1% in volume, the sharp decline in oil prices from
levels reached during the Persian Gulf crisis meant that the
imports tumbled 39% in value, to $3.07 billion.
   For the year, the trade surplus surged to $78.23 billion
from $52.15 billion in 1990. Exports rose 9.6%, to $314.6
billion from $286.95 billion, while imports edged up 0.7%, to
$236.37 billion from $234.8 billion. The 1991 result reversed
a four-year narrowing in the surplus and brought the
imbalance close to its 1986 peak of $82.74 billion. In 1987,
the surplus stood at $79.71 billion.
   Economists expect the surplus to balloon to a record this
year. Robert Feldman, an economist for Salomon Brothers Inc.
in Tokyo, said the investment firm predicts a surplus of $106
billion for 1992. Kenneth Courtis of Deutsche Bank Capital
Markets (Asia) projects a $116 billion surplus and said it
could be even bigger if demand in the U.S. recovers more
quickly than expected.
   Lower prices for oil and other commodities were a major
factor behind 1991's sluggish import growth. "The weak world
economy is holding commodity prices down," Mr. Feldman said.
"About half of Japan's imports are commodities. So when
prices are weak, imports are low." At the same time, Japanese
exports continue to command higher prices, partly because the
heavy Japanese capital investment of recent years has
resulted in the production of higher-value-added goods. Both
trends are likely to continue in coming months, Mr. Feldman
said.
   Even a Finance Ministry official, who for much of last
year had ascribed the surging surplus to temporary factors,
acknowledged that the imbalance is likely to continue
widening for at least a few months, although he insisted that
the longer-term trend will be toward a lower surplus. Indeed,
a stronger yen eventually could help curb the surplus, as it
did in the late 1980s.
   Mr. Feldman said he thinks the bulging surplus will cause
the Japanese currency to strengthen "toward 110 yen" against
the dollar from the current rate of about 123 yen. At first,
that would cause the surplus to widen even more sharply in
the next few months because it would increase the amount of
dollars that yen-based exports produce when the dollar-based
trade figures are compiled. Subsequently, though, it should
cause an increase in Japanese imports and reduce the surplus
in the latter part of the year, Mr. Feldman said.
   Since July, Japanese trade officials have been suggesting
that a stronger yen may be needed to help curb the surplus.
But some foreign observers doubt that exchange-rate movements
would have much impact unless Japan encourages consumer
spending -- and thus imports -- with changes in tax and other
laws. Despite the sharp strengthening of the yen, from about
250 to the dollar in 1985, the surplus has been remarkably
resilient, they note.
   On a bilateral basis, the December surplus with the U.S.
rose 28% from a year earlier, to $4.46 billion, marking the
fifth consecutive monthly increase. Exports to the U.S.
gained 1.8%, to $8.39 billion, with auto shipments growing
8.7%, to $2.45 billion. Imports from the U.S. fell 17%, to
$3.93 billion, with slack shipments of coal, certain metals
and aircraft contributing to the decline.
   For all of 1991, Japan's surplus with the U.S. edged up
1.3%, to $38.45 billion. Exports rose 1.4%, to $91.54
billion, and imports increased by the same amount, to $53.09
billion.