Year-End Review of Bond Markets:
   Bond-Stock Hybrids Become the Market Highfliers
   ----
   By Constance Mitchell
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
"It was a perfect world for convertibles" and other
bond-stock hybrids, says Bill Hensel, a convertible bond
portfolio manager at Pacific Horizon Funds Inc. in San Diego.
"You had both markets driving these securities. At the start
of the year, stock prices pulled convertibles higher. Then,
when stock prices declined, bond prices rose and took
convertibles higher." At the end of the year, when both
stocks and bonds were climbing, convertibles and preferred
stock soared.
   As a result, these uncommon securities beat traditional
stocks and bonds hands down. While the total return of the
Dow Jones Industrial Average was 24.5% in 1991, and the
return on the Merrill Lynch & Co. Domestic Master bond index
was 15.85%, portfolios composed of convertible bonds and
preferred stock returned 31.96% and 39.06%, respectively,
according to Merrill Lynch. Total return measures price gains
and interest or dividend income.
   Convertible bonds are securities that can be converted at
a future date and at a specified price for another type of
security, often common stock. Preferred stock has elements of
both stocks and bonds. It pays a fixed-rate of interest as a
dividend each quarter. But unlike straight bonds, preferred
stock dividends can be omitted without sending the company
into bankruptcy. Preferred is less risky than common stock
because a company cannot pay dividends to common stockholders
until preferred stockholders are paid.
   Staples Inc., an office equipment and supplies company, is
typical of the young, fast-growing midsized concerns that
tend to issue convertible bonds. Such companies like to issue
convertibles because the interest costs are lower than on a
straight bond. And as holders convert them into common stock,
the company's balance sheet shows less debt and more equity.
   Last year, Staples' 7% subordinated bonds due June 6,
2015, was one of the top-performing convertible bonds. It
gained 60 points, or 67%, to end at a price of 149. That's a
$600 gain for each $1,000 bond. Staples' common stock rose
115% because of strong earnings, but many convertible bonds
outperformed the issuers' common shares.
   Kenneth Lipper, chairman of Lipper & Co., which manages
several funds that invest in convertible bonds and preferred
stock, said many of the securities in his portfolio benefited
from "an incredible confluence of events," some of which may
continue during 1992.
   Mr. Lipper says that in addition to lower inflation and
falling interest rates -- events that triggered last year's
bond and stock rallies -- prices of convertible bonds and
preferred stock were helped by improving credit quality and a
trend among companies to deleverage their balance sheets.
   Many companies improved their balance sheets during 1991,
through stock offerings or by refinancing their older higher
yielding debt with lower interest rate debt. "Every time you
looked up, another company was refinancing, restructuring or
doing something to enhance its credit standing," said Mr.
Lipper.
   The most notable example of this trend was RJR Nabisco
Holdings Corp., the giant tobacco and food company which
regained an investment-grade credit rating on much of its
debt in December after it reduced its debt load and issued
more stock. During the year, the company's preferred stock
rose sharply. RJR eventually retired about $3 billion of its
11.5% preferred stock by offering holders common stock.
   As credit quality of many heavily indebted companies
improved, the securities became more attractive to investors,
especially to somewhat conservative investors who wanted a
bit of the excitement of the stock market but with the safety
features of the bond market. Moreover, convertible bonds pay
interest rates that are typically much higher than the annual
dividend paid on its stock counterpart.
   "A lot of investors and fund managers are starting to
realize that not only are {convertible bonds} attractive for
their conversion value, but those 6% to 7% coupons look
awfully attractive," says Mr. Hensel. "Some of these
companies don't even pay dividends on their stocks, or if
they do the dividends are very low."
   Mr. Hensel cited Hasbro Inc. The toy maker issued $150
million of seven-year convertible subordinated debentures due
Nov. 15, 1998, with a coupon of 6%. Since they were issued,
the price of the bonds has moved from par, or 100, to 113, a
gain of $130 for a bond with a $1,000 face amount. The stock
also rose sharply during the same period, moving from $34 to
$40. But the dividend on the stock is just six cents a
quarter, less than 1% of the stock price.
   (See related story: "Bonds Ended 1991 With Double Digit
Gains, But Few Analysts Expect Repeat Performance ---
Interest Rate Cuts Propel the Market To Surprising Return" --
WSJ Jan. 2, 1992).