Manager's Journal:
   The Cleveland Health-Care Experiment
   ----
   By John C. Morley
Market reform begins with an awareness that both
purchasers and providers have been captive to an inefficient
health-care system that rewards those who provide the
greatest number of services at the highest cost. The
incentives for hospitals and physicians have been to provide
high volume, costly procedures and more, rather than less,
care. In contrast, conservative, efficient practitioners are
penalized with lower reimbursements; physicians who achieve
excellent results for their patients at less cost than their
peers simply get paid less -- they do not gain a single
additional patient for their efficiency and effectiveness.
   The goal of market reform is to create new incentives that
reward providers of high-quality, efficient medical care with
increased patient volume (i.e., market share). By creating
employee benefit plans that supply patients with sound
information and incentives to choose providers of
demonstrated quality and efficiency, purchasers can create a
strong competitive market for health care that will motivate
providers to improve productivity or risk loss of patients.
   While market reform approaches will vary to fit local
circumstances, certain common elements appear crucial to
successful implementation. Here are steps you can consider.
   -- Build a critical mass of purchasing power. Takeoff
depends on getting leading business organizations to join
together with you so that the local market will pay attention
quickly. Uniting large and small employers can increase
market leverage and help avoid the shifting of costs from one
group of purchasers to another.
   In Cleveland, we used readily available public and
employer claims data to conduct a preliminary assessment of
local hospital cost, use and mortality rates. By comparing
Cleveland practice patterns to selected "benchmark"
facilities, we identified substantial opportunities to
contain costs while improving quality of care. These initial
findings were instrumental in motivating CEO commitment to
market reform. In addition, since several major companies had
implemented selected contracting programs with area
hospitals, it showed that they were already inclined to steer
patients to the most cost-effective providers.
   -- Build partnerships with provider leaders. Once
sufficient purchasing power has been amassed, business should
invite local providers to work together on market reform. A
coalition of purchasers and providers is hard to stop. A
well-organized business community should be able to directly
organize partners in the provider community (doctors,
hospitals) that can be formalized into a permanent non-profit
organization -- Cleveland and other communities have done
this.
   -- Agree on uniform measures of provider performance.
Physicians and hospitals must be confident that the
performance measures used to assess quality and cost will be
fair and consistently applied. Purchasers must be assured
that data will be relevant to their needs.
   In Cleveland, we created a joint committee of purchaser
and provider representatives to review available
risk-adjusted quality measurement systems and make
recommendations appropriate to the local market. Examples of
outcomes that will be monitored include mortality,
complications, length of stay and hospital-acquired
infections. We also established a deadline so the committee's
review did not turn into lengthy research for the "perfect"
system.
   -- Test your system. Government typically issues a mandate
that starts with a germ of a good idea and then codifies it
to death in endless regulations. A voluntary system can run a
test, quickly modify the method and try again. The test
period affords an opportunity to begin to change culture in
providers and in purchasers to understand ways to use the
information to improve decision-making.
   Right now, the test run reports in Cleveland are prompting
hospitals to retool data documentation practices and improve
patient care in anticipation of the first live reports --
with hospital identities revealed -- that will be released
later this year.
   -- Implement new employee incentive benefit plans. Market
reform involves shifting market share on the basis of
supplier performance. To do this, purchasers must create new
benefit plans to encourage patients to select the more
efficient and effective providers. This includes educating
employees about the decisions available to them and the plans
and incentives that will be provided. For example, purchasers
can agree to provide additional benefits (say, less
cost-sharing or fewer administrative hassles) to employees
who choose to receive their care from "preferred providers,"
selected on the basis of superior quality and efficiency.
   -- Talk it up. Often corporate leaders are most
comfortable in their clubs and board rooms. Market reform
requires broad-based public education. The general population
must be educated both about the information being provided on
comparative cost and quality and about the rationale and
benefits of new incentives that encourage choice of selected
providers. We are using a variety of techniques now -- well
in advance of the data release: brochures, video programs, a
local speaker's bureau and internal company communications.
   Market reform can return the healthcare industry to the
fold of the competitive marketplace. As hospitals compete
through quality, they will improve their service, increase
volume and the market will see efficient pricing. The
national debate on the very real issues of price regulation
and insurance extension for the underinsured and the indigent
is missing the point of market reform. Indeed, the worst
possible outcome is a national program that further enshrines
the pay-for-service principle. So while Washington continues
the debate, maybe it is time for us each to act.
   ---
   Mr. Morley is chairman of Cleveland Health Quality Choice
and president and CEO of Reliance Electric Company.