International:
   India's Liberalization Plan Encounters
   Resistance From Uneasy Establishment
   ----
   By Suman Dubey
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
Late last month, trade union leader and Minister of State
Rangarajan Kumaramangalam was obliged to deny press
speculation that he had resigned as a protest against the
economic liberalization program. A couple of weeks earlier,
scores of civil servants protested a government directive to
cut 1,000 jobs, mostly in the Commerce Ministry. The
termination notices were put on hold.
   At a late-January meeting with Finance Minister Manmohan
Singh, some of India's top industrialists congratulated him
on the government's boldness in freeing the economy from
bureaucratic control and opening it up to market forces, but
they warned that some of the deflationary policies were
leading India headlong into recession.
   Finance Minister Singh, regarded as the architect of the
economic program, loses no opportunity to warn that the
transformation from a controls-bound, inward-looking economy
to one that is open and market-led cannot be painless and
will require at least two years of belt-tightening. But now
that the downside is evident, there are murmurs of dissent
that could get louder if they aren't addressed.
   What has triggered the uneasiness in part is the
government's inability to bring down inflation, currently
about 13% annually. Prices have continued to rise even though
this would normally be the time for a pre-harvest seasonal
decline.
   Thus, while there is a consensus that subsidies, for
instance, must be reduced and eventually phased out, Minister
of State Kumaramangalam and others argue that food subsidies
should be maintained to avoid hurting the poor. "It is going
to take three to five years for the benefits of the reforms
to trickle down," he says. "So do you want people to die in
this period, or do you want to sustain them?"
   Last week, the government responded to some of the
criticism by negotiating the import of one million metric
tons of wheat to improve availability in the market, and
officials say there may be further imports of price-sensitive
items.
   There also is concern that when the government permits
public-sector companies to fire workers -- all but impossible
at present -- or tells inefficient public-sector units to
shut down, idled workers will switch their votes to the
opposition parties. In a recent newspaper interview, former
External Affairs and Industry Minister Dinesh Singh said:
"The fear {in the Congress Party} is that if the {opposition}
Bharatiya Janata Party and the Janata Dal combine and bring
down the government, on what issue will the Congress {Party}
go to the people? High prices and the neglect of the rural
poor will not ensure votes."
   Apart from an increase in foreign-exchange reserves due
mostly to borrowing, the economy is in a stagflationary
recession, partly because of credit and import restraints put
in place along with the reforms to contain the trade deficit
and inflation. (Stagflation involves a combination of rising
prices and insufficient economic expansion.) Industrial
growth in 1991's April-to-September period was a negative
0.7%, compared with a 13% expansion a year earlier. High
excise duties have stifled demand for consumer durables and
other industrial products, and short-term lending rates are
at 22% to 24%.
   The collapse and dissolution of the Soviet Union, which
was an ally and major trading partner of India, and recession
in the West have eroded exports, causing them to fall to
$10.95 billion in the latest April-to-November period from
$11.53 billion a year earlier. Exports to Eastern Europe
dropped sharply, undercutting a 5.8% gain in exports to the
rest of the world. But with the imposition of import
restraints, Commerce Minister P. Chidambaram estimates that
the trade deficit in the year ending March 31 will narrow to
about half the previous year's $6 billion.
   Few argue that the reforms shouldn't have been launched.
For the first time there is broad political consensus that
the measures were long overdue. And many analysts say the
country has no choice but to open the economy further.
   But while Prime Minister Rao frequently reiterates that
the course he has mapped is irreversible, even he has been
obliged to reassure his senior colleagues, while telling them
it is the Congress Party's duty to explain to constituents
the need for reforms and the temporary hardships they will
bring.
   Mr. Rao launched his reform program within days of
becoming prime minister last June after the assassination of
party leader Rajiv Gandhi. A two-step devaluation pegged the
rupee 23% lower against the U.S. dollar. Shortly afterward,
the government unveiled a trade policy cutting down
regulations, eliminating export subsidies and creating a
freely tradable foreign-currency certificate that reflects
credit for export earnings or can be used to finance imports.
   The government also eliminated industrial licensing, by
which it had controlled production across the board, and
removed restraints on large Indian corporations that hampered
investment and expansion. It permitted foreign investment of
as much as 51% of total equity in a broad range of industrial
and service sectors, and of 100% in certain cases. And it cut
back subsidies, such as those for fertilizer, and pruned
public spending.
   These moves were followed by programs to attract
investment money from Indians overseas and easier terms for
foreign companies to persuade them to renew efforts in
offshore oil exploration. And in what may be a precursor to
privatizations in the public sector, the government raised
more than $500 million by transferring 5% of the shares of
profitable public-sector companies to state-owned financial
institutions and mutual funds.
   More recently, foreign companies have been allowed to use
their trademarks and brand names in India and to buy and sell
property, open branches and borrow money locally. They still
need approval to remit profits home.