Canada Imposes
   Spending Freeze
   To Curb Red Ink
   ----
   By John Urquhart
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
He estimated that the spending restraints would save the
government 200 million Canadian dollars (US$170.4 million)
over the next two months and help keep the deficit below
C$31.5 billion for the fiscal year ending March 31. Some
financial analysts have predicted a fiscal 1992 deficit of
more than C$34 billion. The fiscal 1991 deficit was C$30.62
billion.
   The new restraints were imposed despite appeals from
various interests for increased government spending to boost
the sluggish Canadian economy and to reduce the unemployment
rate, currently 10.4% of the work force. Bank of Montreal
Chairman Matthew Barrett has proposed a C$3 billion outlay
for worker training and capital projects.
   The freeze applies to discretionary spending on
nonessential government operations.
   The Canadian economy emerged from a yearlong recession
with a spurt of growth in the April-June period of last year.
But since last summer it has shown little strength despite a
sharp drop in short-term Canadian interest rates.
   Mr. Mazankowski predicted that economic growth will pick
up slowly in the first half of this year and strengthen in
the second half. He said that for all of calendar 1992, he
expects Canada's economy to grow 2.7%.
   Canada's sluggish recovery has been blamed largely on the
unexpected weakness of the U.S. economy. The U.S. buys more
than 75% of Canada's exports. Foreign sales account for
almost 25% of Canada's economic activity, compared with only
8.1% for the U.S. economy.
   Mr. Mazankowski said Canada was making impressive progress
against inflation and was laying the groundwork for
"substantial, sustained non-inflationary growth in the years
to come." He predicted that the consumer price index for this
month would show a rise of less than 2% from a year earlier.
In December, the index was up 3.8% from a year earlier mainly
because of higher government sales taxes.
   Mr. Mazankowski said it will be "extremely difficult" for
the government to achieve its goal of narrowing its budget
deficit to C$24 billion in fiscal 1993, which starts April 1.
But he said the fiscal 1993 deficit will be "substantially
below" the fiscal 1992 figure.
   He defended the government's spending restraint record,
which has been criticized by business groups as being too
lax. The Canadian government's budget deficit last year
amounted to 3.7% of its gross domestic product, compared with
4.8% for the U.S. government, he noted. Gross domestic
product is the total value of a country's output of goods and
services.
   Herb Gray, the opposition Liberal Party's financial
spokesman, said Mr. Mazankowski's statement was "an admission
of failure" in trying to meet the government's economic
targets.