LEISURE  ARTS -- Bookshelf:
   What Really Goes on Inside the House
   ----
   By James K. Coyne
With compelling realism, Mr. Cwiklik hooks his narrative
onto the desperate drama of the 1989 SL bailout bill. As a
junior member of the Banking Committee, Mr. Hoagland has
little effect on the substantive legislation, but his effort
to add an amendment for favored special interests back home
shows he is a fast study in the art of incumbency.
   The climax of his conniving occurs in the tense final
moments of the House-Senate conference committee, when Mr.
Hoagland's special-interest amendment is caught in political
cross fire. Weary and almost hopeless, he resorts to begging
and writes: "Chairman Gonzalez: I really need this amendment.
I won my race by only 3000 votes."
   His amendment succeeds, the special interests contribute
thousands of dollars in thanks, but Mr. Hoagland offers no
gratitude to Henry Gonzalez. Later, he abandons him on the
final vote just to score points against the Bush
administration.
   For those mystified by the SL debacle, "House Rules"
offers a readable and detailed chronicle of this monument to
legislative neglect, highlighted by revealing sketches of the
co-conspirators in Congress and the FSLIC. It also provides a
fascinating glimpse of the day-to-day details of Congress in
this era of incumbent imperialism.
   Mr. Hoagland's mastery of the technology of modern
politics is especially revealing. A secretary who watches his
endless dialing for PAC dollars calls him "telephoner of the
year." His four printers unleash "blizzards of targeted
mail," dumping 165,000 unwanted personalized letters on his
constituents in just one weekend. Since then he's gone on to
a top spot on Roll Call's list of franked-mail abusers.
   But Mr. Hoagland is a child of television and understands
its special impact on politics. Every key vote is weighed
against how it might play on a 30-second spot, and even the
most "unpolitical" event is crafted to "get the TV cameras
in." He has no qualms about turning an invitation to Boys
Town into a televised "photo op" to announce some phase of
"his war on drugs." When Father Peter objects to having
"their children exploited," Mr. Hoagland's interest in the
kids seems to evaporate and the visit never takes place.
   "House Rules" should stand as Exhibit A in the debate over
the principal paradox of congressional politics: We loathe
Congress but like our own congressmen and women. The answer
can only be that we never see what our representatives are
really doing with their time, votes and money. "House Rules"
strips away all the polite propaganda, the choreographed
press coverage and the deceptive decorum and reveals the
species au naturel.
   One of the most revealing vignettes concerns the day House
leaders slyly schedule a vote on an "Ethics Reform" bill with
a 33% pay raise. That same day Lech Walesa had addressed
Congress and everyone "hailed the progress of democracy in
Eastern Europe." Later, Mr. Hoagland is in the Democratic
cloakroom as members anxiously watch the nightly news. When
the pay-raise vote is covered in a "surprisingly neutral
segment . . . the room explodes in cheers and applause."
   Democracy at home is in retreat. Mr. Hoagland wants the
raise but had voted against it. Still, he agrees to lobby the
Senate to make sure the raise goes through. So much for his
pledge on election night to tell "the hard truth." In
relating all this, Mr. Cwiklik avoids preaching, though some
sloppy editing (e.g. Democratic Whip Bill Gray is referred to
as Bill Grey) and repetitiveness are distracting.
   Near the end of the bailout-bill debate, Mr. Hoagland goes
onto the House floor to explain his vote against it. He knows
it'll pass, so he doesn't worry about losing his amendments.
The Democratic leadership knows he has a "marginal" district,
so he's "given a lot of slack" on "tough" votes like this. He
decides it's best to look fiscally responsible and
demonstrate "a little independence" at the same time.
   His remarks conclude with this summation: "I was elected
to be part of the problem, not part of the solution." Though
the Congressional Record corrects his malapropism, the reader
senses a Freudian slip.
   The epilogue tells us that Mr. Hoagland won re-election in
1990, along with 96% of all incumbents.
   ---
   Mr. Coyne, a former congressman from Pennsylvania, is a
management consultant in Langley, Va.