LEISURE  ARTS:
   Mosque for Gotham Muslims
   ----
   By Eve M. Kahn
Most of the 40-odd Muslim countries that belong to the
United Nations donated funds or materials to the project (the
Pakistanis and Turks, the carpets; the Indonesians, the
raised teak platform inlaid with mother-of-pearl where the
imam, a tall, courtly Egyptian named Dr. Abdel-Rahman Osman,
speaks). Construction began in 1987 and stopped countless
times, most recently because the Gulf War tied up Kuwaiti
funds. (New York Magazine dubbed the mosque "one of the
longest-running non-construction projects in New York City."
Mr. Hayden pooh-poohed the delays, saying, "Cathedrals take
hundreds of years; this was relatively quick by comparison.")
Dedication ceremonies took place last fall, but finishing
touches are still needed; workers have not yet installed
railings for the staircase that leads to the imam's platform.
And a planned administration building, library and school
next door remain frozen in the wish stage. The imam works
amid mismatched furniture in what was meant to be a coat
closet, his secretary by the sink in an adjacent kitchen.
   A sign on the back door, the expected entrance except on
Fridays and holidays, warns that "this is a place of worship"
and that sneakers, miniskirts and something called "training
dresses" are not suitable. But the architecture at first
seems secular. For quotidian worship, a handful of the
congregation's 700 members scatter shoes at the door of the
lower sanctuary and lie prone in mid-room, their arms
stretched toward what look like red throw rugs hung on the
wall facing Mecca. The boxy, carpeted space could be a
chairless classroom in any post-1965 high school. The main
staircase, with its plain white-enamel railing on
frosted-glass sheets, likewise recalls worldly architecture,
as do the glitzy ablution rooms with marble seats where
congregants remove footwear and wash faces, arms and feet
before services. But the domed sanctuary upstairs is
awe-inspiring.
   Pale pistachio paint covers almost all surfaces, rendering
the space peaceful and womblike. Whooshing ventilation
systems suck up all sound when the room is empty; you feel
wrapped in cool batting. Ornament appears sparely and wisely;
vibrant squares of red, navy, rose, yellow, pink and khaki
seem to hum on the carpet, the only non-pistachio colors in
sight; frostedglass cubic light fixtures wrapped like gifts
in brass trim crown eight pylons along the walls. Around the
"qiblah" (the Mecca-oriented niche where the imam prays) and
at the dome's rim and peak run Koran quotes in gilded Arabic
letters so geometric and stylized that they recall meandering
trails of metal on computer circuit boards.
   A ring of brass fixtures descends from the dome's rim on
brass strands and hangs tantalizingly just beyond reach-like
tiny envoys from heaven. Sunlight streams through
frosted-glass strips that divide wall panels and through
corner skylights, and none of these openings permit views of
the failed neighboring buildings. The room is a haven for
inward and upward thought. It looks slightly dated already --
especially the frosted-glass fixtures, which have become an
office-hallway cliche -- but no other late post-modern
mosques are likely to be built; this one is a magnificent
period piece.
   The exterior has one irritating flaw. The dome would look
more comfortable on a smooth, unobtrusive transition to the
cube below. Instead it rests on a stack of three horizontal
slabs held apart by slim vertical supports; they bring to
mind a mall parking garage. But the minaret, with its simple
flared base and simpler dome, is a masterpiece: sleek,
well-proportioned, neither cute nor intimidating. "It raises
the spirits of the people," said the imam, and Mr. Hayden
considers its granite skin over cast concrete a vast
technological improvement over its Eastern predecessors.
"They're typically sundried brick and not very tall, and they
sway; ours is fully reinforced. This is New York, after all,"
he said.
   The minaret's ship's-rail balcony near its crown will
never accommodate a crier; the only people meant to climb its
interior ladder are workers toying with the loudspeaker
system. Its call to prayer is not only recorded, it plays
solely on Fridays and is inaudible beyond the complex's
pinkish-beige fence. And at the peak of this purely and
powerfully symbolic spire rises a modest, vestigial crescent:
a sign at once of enduring devotion to an exotic faith and of
impending assimilation.
   ---
   Ms. Kahn is a free-lance writer based in New York.