El Paso Electric,
   Reeling With Debt,
   Files Chapter 11
   ----
   By Ann de Rouffignac
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The utility was reeling from more than $400 million in
past-due debt obligations. It had been negotiating with
creditors on a financial restructuring since November, but
little progress was made, according to company statements
late last year.
   The creditors' impatience was exacerbated when regulators
granted only $52 million in rate increases in late October;
the company had sought $131.3 million.
   Much of the request was to cover costs associated with
Unit 3 of the Palo Verde nuclear generating station. But the
commission disallowed $32 million of the investment, ruling
those costs had been imprudently incurred. Further, all
subsequent costs of Unit 3 would be phased in over five years
under an inventory plan devised by the commissioners. The
company said this plan would cause it to incur writeoffs of
at least $70 million.
   The Texas Public Utilities Commission late yesterday
dashed El Paso Electric's hopes of getting an additional rate
increase immediately. The commission denied the company's
request that it rehear part of the disputed rate case.
   In addition to the rate case, El Paso has had to weather
bad real-estate investments. Also, former officers have been
indicted on fraud charges and the company faces several
lawsuits.
   For the first nine months of 1991, El Paso Electric
reported a loss of $20.3 million, or 75 cents a share, on
revenue of $329.3 million.
   Analysts were quick to point to Public Service of New
Hampshire's sojourn in bankruptcy court for clues as to how
El Paso Electric might fare. In the New Hampshire case, the
bankruptcy court judge imposed a string of 5.5% annual rate
increases over seven years, a spokeswoman for PS New
Hampshire said.
   Ratepayer representatives in Texas are expected to be more
aggressive than those in the PS New Hampshire case. Steve
Fogel, assistant public counsel in the Office of Public
Utility Counsel, said of the El Paso Electric filing: "We are
going to intervene as soon as possible in the bankruptcy
court" to make sure that residential ratepayers are
represented equally with creditors.
   The El Paso Electric Chapter 11 filing apparently also
caught the attention of the bond market, as many speculated
on the fate of several other utilities with similar
difficulties. Moody's Investors Service Inc. downgraded
credit ratings on about $800 million in El Paso Electric
securities, bumping the utility's first mortgage bonds to
C-aa from single-B-3.