Technology:
   Makers of PCs
   Plan to Display
   `Windows' Logo
   ---
   Move May Allow Microsoft
   To Set Systems Standard
   For Running Software
   ----
   By G. Pascal Zachary
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Dell Computer Corp., Tandy Corp. and Digital Equipment
Corp., three medium-sized PC makers, said they will be among
the first to participate in the plan. Windows is a program
that makes standard DOS software easier to use by opening
menus or choosing icons with a pointing device. Microsoft,
based in Redmond, Wash., has sold nine million copies of its
latest version of Windows since releasing it in May 1990.
   Microsoft said it expects other computer makers to use the
Windows logo. "We're getting a very good response to the idea
from manufacturers," said Jonathan Lazarus, general manager
of systems marketing.
   Mr. Lazarus said Microsoft hopes the logo plan will help
to redefine the PC standard, making Windows software the
defining characteristic of the PC. Currently, the PC is
commonly defined as a computer that is compatible with
machines from International Business Machines Corp. "I want
to eliminate that whole concept {of IBM-compatibles} for
buyers -- and just have them focus on Windows," Mr. Lazarus
said.
   In launching its logo plan, Microsoft is following the
lead of Intel Corp., whose microprocessors serve as the
electronic brains in PCs made by IBM and hundreds of other
companies. Last July, Intel launched an "Intel Inside"
advertising campaign. Nearly every PC maker has displayed the
slogan in its ads, with Intel picking up part of the cost for
the campaign.
   Microsoft, however, won't be offering any financial
incentives to PC makers, some of whom will even make room on
their machines for the Microsoft logo.
   As the dominant supplier of basic software for personal
computers, Microsoft already is at the center of the PC
industry. The company doesn't make PCs itself, but somewhat
influences the way manufacturers design their PCs, simply as
a way to insure that these machines can run its software.
Under the new plan, Microsoft wants to expand its influence
over hardware design by encouraging manufacturers to tailor
their PCs -- and the pieces in them -- to exploit the
graphical features of Windows.
   Companies whose PCs satisfy the basic criteria will be
offered one logo; companies that install Windows on their PCs
will sport a logo that indicates their machines are "ready to
run" Windows. Both Dell and Digital Equipment said they
welcome the chance to display the Windows logo, saying it
could give them an edge over other manufacturers and won't
dilute their own brand names.
   "This is one differentiation. We'll be doing this, others
won't," said Douglas MacKenzie, manager of PC software
engineering at Digital, which will begin stamping the Windows
logo on its PCs later this year.
   "We definitely intend to use the logoand be very visible
in our use of it," said Charlie Sauer, Dell's vice president
of technical strategy.
   In the long run, however, identifying too strongly with
Windows could make a hardware company's job tougher. "How
does a computer maker differentiate between the relative
goodness of their Windows machine vs. someone else's Windows
machine?" said David Readerman, an analyst at Lehman
Brothers. "I'm not sure what they do."
   The Windows logo campaign also seems to be aimed at
further loosening IBM's hold over the PC market and boosting
support for a new version of Windows Microsoft is expected to
release in late March or early April. Until last year,
Microsoft and IBM more or less worked in concert on basic
software for PCs, but now IBM is pushing its own design of
OS/2 software against Windows. IBM's latest version of OS/2,
which the company promises will run Windows applications, is
due out at about the same time.
   The wrangling is all part of "Microsoft's effort to offer
some leadership in response to the rift with IBM," said Rick
Sherlund, an analyst with Goldman, Sachs  Co. "The question
is: Who will the {PC makers} follow? IBM or Microsoft?"