Chinese Province Plays Capitalist Game
   ---
   Guangdong Makes Deals
   Tied To Hong Kong's Future
   ----
   By Steve Glain
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
As Hong Kong prepares to return to Chinese rule in 1997,
the economies of southern China and the colony are becoming
more tightly interlaced, enriching many mainland companies on
the receiving end of foreign investment. Many of these
companies are now eager to invest their profits overseas,
much of it in Hong Kong. Citic Pacific Ltd., which is
controlled by Beijing-based China International Trust 
Investment Corp., is the most prominent example of a
Chinese-related company that is cleaning up in the capitalist
game.
   Few mainland companies enjoy the financial and political
clout of Citic Pacific, whose parent is a division of China's
central government. Yet at the provincial level, Guangdong
Investment may eventually rank as high. As the primary
investment arm of the Guangdong authorities, the company has
behind it all the resources of China's wealthiest economic
region. It's one of the few China-controlled companies based
in Hong Kong with a listing on the colony's stock exchange,
thanks largely to the track record of its parent company,
Guangdong Enterprises Ltd., the province's primary agent in
the colony since 1981. Some people are already calling
Guangdong Investment the "Son of Citic."
   "It has the potential to be the most genuine China play in
Hong Kong and one of China's biggest conglomerates over the
next few years," says Allan Ng, an analyst with S.G. Warburg
(Far East) Ltd.
   Many investors seem to agree. The company's shares closed
Thursday at 1.46 Hong Kong dollars (about 19 U.S. cents), up
one Hong Kong cent from Wednesday and up 143% from
year-earlier levels.
   "It's a concept stock," says Steven So, an analyst with
Jardine Fleming Broking Ltd. "You buy it on the idea that the
Guangdong government will put their assets in it. Some of
those assets will be attractive, and some of them won't."
   Not everyone is convinced, however. The company seems to
lack a clear investment strategy when acquiring assets, and
many outsiders worry that it will squander its potential. The
company's immediate prospects are also clouded by Sino-U.S.
trade friction, which could bludgeon southern China if a
trade war ensues.
   Guangdong Investment, established in 1988 through
Guangdong Enterprises' purchase of a Hong Kong-listed shell
company, is apparently unmoved by such concerns. Until early
this year, its portfolio consisted primarily of a hotel, an
office building and a waste-management company. A plan to
shift some of the parent's holdings into Guangdong Investment
was pre-empted by China's bloody crackdown on pro-democratic
dissent in 1989.
   Now, Guangdong Investment is snapping up assets faster
than securities regulators can keep pace. Earlier this month,
the company announced a HK$552 million issue of new shares to
pay for three investments -- the travel agency and the
property development and malting factory in southern China.
The issue doubled the company's capital base, to 820 million
shares.
   Guangdong Investment submitted a document explaining the
nature of the assets, in compliance with exchange rules. But
so significantly will the purchases alter Guangdong
Investment's core business and profitability -- analysts now
expect the company's 1992 earnings will be HK$95 million,
seven times the projected 1991 level -- that the stock
exchange asked the company to issue a new prospectus. "The
assets they are acquiring are quite substantial," says a
member of the exchange's listing committee. "But we don't
know anything about them."
   Despite its rapid, somewhat piecemeal, expansion, many
people agree that the company has tapped into some lucrative
businesses. Consider, for example, the New Cathay Hotel,
which the company acquired in 1988. At a time when Hong
Kong's hotel industry is still smarting from a slowdown in
visitor arrivals, the New Cathay is 95% full, mostly with
guests from southern China.
   The hotel reopened in 1989 after a HK$50 million
renovation, which recast the dour lobby with polished granite
floors, art-deco light fixtures and furniture of imitation
black marble. In one corner stands a Yamaha player-piano with
a hard disk for expanded memory. The rooms were also redone,
but for economic, rather than aesthetic, reasons; they were
partitioned to double the hotel's capacity to 228 units.
Rates range from HK$550 for a single room to HK$1,300 for a
deluxe suite.
   Most of the guests arrive on buses owned by Guangdong
Tours (H.K.) Ltd., which Guangdong Investment acquired for
HK$317 million. The company, which packages Hong Kong tours
for Guangdong residents, owns the franchise for six of the
eight government-approved tours that are allowed into Hong
Kong each day.
   Guangdong Investment's other prime asset is its 80%-owned
property development in Panyu, about 10.5 miles from
Guangzhou, Guangdong's capital. The first phase of the
commercial-residential project, to be completed within three
to five years, was purchased in June for HK$30 million. The
slightly larger second phase, bought this month for HK$66
million, is expected to be finished in 1997.
   The complex, which will cover 6.4 million square feet, is
expected to raise about HK$400 million in profit between now
and the late 1990s, according to independent forecasts.