Wednesday's Markets:
   Late Rally
   Sends Dow
   Up by 32.42
   ---
   Spurt Shows Stocks
   May Keep Gaining;
   Bond Prices Decline
   ----
   By Douglas R. Sease
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Analysts said the late rally was fueled by institutional
investors taking advantage of Tuesday's modest sell-off to
put more money into the market. Broad-based buying lifted
both growth and cyclical stocks.
   The quick rebound from Tuesday's selling signaled to
analysts that the stock market's powerful month-long rally is
still far from over. Stock prices have soared since
mid-December as investors have flocked into the market
because it is the only attractive alternative to the low
interest rates on fixed-income securities. Usually such fast
gains result in a correction of at least a few percentage
points as ebullient investors try to lock in their profits.
But so much money is seeking a home in stocks that even the
smallest decline in prices is viewed as a buying opportunity.
   "The fact that we aren't seeing any kind of real
correction suggests that there's still a lot of power left in
the market," said Gary Shilling, an economist and money
manager who has long been pessimistic about chances of a
sustained economic recovery. He said that for the time being,
investors are willing to ignore poor earnings and bad news
while anticipating an economic recovery this spring.
   There was scant evidence yesterday of a budding recovery.
While housing starts in December rose 2.6%, they still are
running at an anemic annual rate of only 1.1 million. And the
Federal Reserve's Beige Book, a compilation of economic
conditions across the country, said the economy remains
lackluster with production and employment in the
manufacturing sector either steady or declining.
   Some analysts anticipate that the sluggish economy and the
resulting moderation of inflation will prompt further
declines in long-term interest rates, providing even more
fuel for the stock market. Mickey Levy, chief economist at
CRT Government Securities, said that although bond prices and
interest rates now seem to be in a trading range, it's likely
that long-term rates will eventually fall to as low as 7.25%
from about 7.6% currently.
   "I think we have room for further declines" in rates, he
said, because inflationary pressures aren't likely to build
quickly.
   In major market action:
                                                                                                       

   Stock prices climbed in heavy trading. Volume totaled 225
million shares on the New York Stock Exchange, where 1,147
issues rose and 628 declined.
                                                                                                       

   Bond prices fell. The Treasury's benchmark 30-year issue
lost more than 5/8 point, or over $6.25 for each $1,000 face
amount. The yield on the issue rose to 7.625%.
                                                                                                       

   The dollar was mixed. In late New York trading the
currency was quoted at 1.5900 marks and 123.35 yen compared
to 1.5860 marks and 123.60 yen Tuesday.