Winter Olympics 1992:
   Results
   ----
   By Timothy J. Carroll
Norway's Geir Karlstad fought through a steady rain and
sloppy track to win the men's 5,000-meter speed skating.
   Helped by an ice resurfacing immediately before he skated,
Mr. Karlstad's time was 6:59.97. He was the only skater to
break seven minutes.
   Falco Zandstra took the silver in 7:02.28 and Dutch
teammate Leo Visser won the bronze in 7:04.96. These were the
first Dutch medals of these Games.
   The weather prevented any of the skaters from even
approaching Norwegian Johann Olav Koss's world record of
6:41.73 or Tomas Gustafson's 1988 Olympic record of 6:44.63.
Mr. Gustafson finished yesterday in 7:15.56.
   Mr. Koss, a three-event world record holder and the
favorite in the 5,000 until developing a pancreatitis last
week, finished seventh in 7:11.32.
   Eric Flaim was the top American finisher in sixth place.
                                                                                                       

   CROSS-COUNTRY SKIING
                                                                                                       

   Vegard Ulvang of Norway became the first double gold
medalist of the 1992 Games, winning the 10-kilometer
cross-country race.
   Mr. Ulvang, who won the 30-kilometer event, overcame
breaking one of his ski poles near the halfway mark to beat
Italy's Marco Albarello by 19.2 seconds. The winning time was
27:36.0. Christer Majback of Sweden finished third.
   Meanwhile, Marjut Lukkarinen won the women's
five-kilometer event, Finland's third consecutive triumph in
the sprint.
   Ms. Lukkarinen edged Lyubov Egorova of the United Team by
0.9 second, reversing the finish of Sunday's 15-kilometer
race. Ms. Lukkarinen's time yesterday was 14:13.8.
   Elena Valbe of the United Team, third in the 15K race,
again won the bronze.
   Both races are part of a two-day pursuit, a new Olympic
event. The men will ski a 15-kilometer freestyle race
tomorrow, while the women will ski 10 kilometers. Starting
times will be staggered to reflect yesterday's finish.
                                                                                                       

   FIGURE SKATING
                                                                                                       

   Victor Petrenko of the United Team won the men's original
program, using the same routine judged best at the past two
world championships.
   And with three-time world champion Kurt Browning of Canada
pacing fourth, the 22-year-old Ukranian is in excellent
position to win the Olympic title. For Mr. Browning to win
Canada's first Olympic men's title, he would have to win the
free skate tomorrow night and have Mr. Petrenko, runner-up in
the world championships, finish lower than second.
   Petr Barna of Czechoslovakia was second after the original
program, while American Paul Wylie stood third.
   Christopher Bowman, the American champion, was seventh
after a lackluster performance. Todd Eldredge, attempting to
overcome back problems, struggled to wind up ninth.
                                                                                                       

   MOGULS
                                                                                                       

   Donna Weinbrecht of the U.S., a twotime world champion,
took the first-ever freestyle skiing gold medal.
   Elizaveta Kojevnikova of the United Team won the silver
and Norway's Stine Hattestad took the bronze.
   Ms. Weinbrecht skiied next to last. The final skier was
Raphaelle Monod of France, the winner of Wednesday's
preliminary heat. But Ms. Monod slipped about 40 yards from
the finish, ending last of the eight finalists.
   In the men's competition, Edgar Grospiron won the gold,
beating out fellow Frenchman Olivier Allamand, who took the
silver and American Nelson Carmichael, who took the bronze.
                                                                                                       

   COMBINED SLALOM
                                                                                                       

   Austria's Petra Kronberger won the gold medal in the
women's combined, keeping teammate Anita Wachter from
becoming the first Alpine skier to retain an Olympic title.
   Florence Masnada of France won the bronze.
   American Krista Schmidinger, second in the downhill,
struggled to a 14th-place finish in the slalom and was 11th
overall.
                                                                                                       

   HOCKEY
                                                                                                       

   The U.S. clinched a berth in the medal round, beating
Finland 4-1 Thursday behind goalie Ray LeBlanc's second
outstanding game and Scott Young's two goals.
   Mr. LeBlanc stopped 24 shots against Finland. His shutout
streak was stopped at 110 minutes and 57 seconds.
   Italy moved to 1-2, beating Poland 7-1, which has lost all
three of its games.
                                                                                                       

   BOBSLED
                                                                                                       

   The U.S. two-man bobsled team of Herschel Walker and Brian
Shimer had the best combined time in Wednesday's training,
completing two runs in 2:01.95. But yesterday, before
training runs were halted because of snow, their time was
11th best.
   Meanwhile, Janis Kipurs of Latvia, the defending Olympic
champion in the two-man bobsled, and 1988 silver medalist
Wolfgang Hoppe of Germany will not compete in this weekend's
race, their teams said.
   Mr. Kipurs strained a calf muscle during warmups Wednesday
and will not enter the two-man race; he likely will race in
the four-man event.
   Mr. Hoppe suffered a hamstring strain five weeks ago, and
then lost a two-heat German race-off Wednesday when he was
slow getting into his sled.