Corning Stock Plunges on Disclosures
   About Breast-Implant Safety Testing
   ----
   By Thomas M. Burton
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Meanwhile, product liability lawyers said Dow Chemical,
based in Midland, Mich., and Corning, of Corning, N.Y., could
face legal liability for silicone-gel breast implants, which
are now under scrutiny by the Food and Drug Administration.
   Dow Corning is the nation's largest manufacturer of the
devices, with some 600,000 implanted over the past 30 years.
Corporate documents recently made public suggest the
manufacturer may have rushed a new product to market in 1975
without sufficient safety tests.
   "I'd be shocked if Dow and Corning were able to establish
they just owned 50% of the stock each and didn't know
anything," said Chicago attorney Thomas A. Demetrio, whose
firm has litigated major tort cases involving aviation
disasters and the so-called Tylenol killings.
   To assess liability against the parent companies, a court
would have to analyze the degree to which top management of
Dow and Corning knew of purported negligence, attorneys said.
Another question would be who ultimately was responsible for
corporate decisions at Dow Corning, attorneys said.
   "If this was kept secret" from Dow Chemical and Corning,
"it would be hard to find liability," Mr. Demetrio said.
   Dow Corning corporate memos between 1975 and 1985 tell of
the company allegedly misleading plastic surgeons about the
potential for silicone to seep out of the surgically
implanted devices. The papers surfaced in a San Francisco
lawsuit against Dow Corning that resulted in a $7.3 million
jury finding in favor of a woman whose implant burst and
purportedly caused her illness.
   FDA Commissioner David Kessler decided earlier this month
that the San Francisco documents and other medical
considerations warranted a moratorium on sale of the
implants.
   Dow Corning, in a Washington news conference, said breast
implants "are safe and effective" based on over 10,000 health
and safety studies. Company officials said they are
continuing to comply with the FDA's moratorium on breast
implants, but have no plans to recall products now on the
market.
   Dow Corning also said at its Washington news conference
that a study by Albert Kolbye Jr., a former associate
director for the FDA, supports the company's contention that
its breast implants are safe. An executive summary of the
study says that Dow Corning's non-clinical studies of its
implants were "extensive and complete."
   Dr. Kolbye's review focused on Dow Corning's pre-market
approval application submitted to the FDA in support of its
silicone breast implants. Dr. Kolbye's review, which was
conducted between September and December of last year,
concluded that silicone breast implants are "not without
risk," but said that Dow Corning's data "support the safety
and efficacy" of the products.
   Dow Corning had 1990 sales of $1.7 billion and net income
of $171 million. Its sales are of chemicals with many uses,
such as in roofing, sealing, glazing and electronics; the
company also makes health products, but less than 1% of sales
derive from breast implants.
   Dow Chemical, with 1990 sales of over $19 billion, and
Corning Inc., with 1990 sales of $2.9 billion, hold five
seats each on the 14-member Dow Corning board. The board
members include Dow Chemical President and Chief Executive
Officer Frank Popoff, and Corning Chairman James R. Houghton.
   Dow Corning, which makes breast-implants through its Dow
Corning Wright unit, said it believes it "will stand on its
own as far as any liability or exposure." An analyst, William
R. Young of Donaldson Lufkin  Jenrette, said the company has
insurance of $200 million per occurrence, but that insurance
generally doesn't cover punitive damages. The bulk of the San
Francisco verdict was in punitive damages.
   Mr. Young also said Corning and Dow Chemical aren't
involved in the venture's day-to-day management.
   Dow and Corning both said they believe they have no
potential liability. Dow attorneys, in a prepared statement,
said "corporation law protects shareholders from personal
liability for the payment of the corporation's debts and
obligations."
   "It's a lot more complicated than that," said Minneapolis
attorney Bruce A. Finzen, whose firm litigated the Bhopal
chemical disaster on behalf of the government of India. He
said the board makeup is "a significant fact."
   He described the breast implant issue as reminiscent of
the Bhopal case. Union Carbide Corp., which owned more than
50% of Union Carbide India Ltd., "said they had no
responsibility," Mr. Finzen contended. But the parent company
ultimately agreed to a settlement in which it and its insurer
paid out $470 million.
   "The mere fact that it's a joint venture does not
exculpate either Corning or Dow," said Mr. Finzen's partner,
Michael Ciresi. Mr. Finzen noted that a lengthy discovery
process would be required before any damages could extend to
the parent companies.