Chrysler to Tap
   Eaton of GM
   For Top Posts
   ---
   Outside Executive Chosen
   As Iacocca's Successor;
   Lutz to Stay President
   ----
   By Bradley A. Stertz
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Mr. Eaton, along with Mr. Iacocca, will form an office of
the chairman that will last until Mr. Iacocca, 67, retires at
the end of this year. It's not clear what role Mr. Iacocca
will serve with the company or on the board after his
retirement.
   This morning's announcement will follow a dramatic meeting
of a key group of Chrysler directors with Chairman Iacocca
that lasted until midnight in New York on Saturday.
Yesterday, Mr. Iacocca returned to Detroit to begin breaking
the news to a select group of Chrysler executives.
   Chrysler's spokesmen wouldn't comment on what the
directors had decided, other than to confirm that the company
plans an announcement and a news conference this morning.
Several Chrysler executives said they also remained in the
dark, pending top-level meetings at the company that also are
scheduled for this morning.
   One of the key questions at Chrysler is how the arrival of
Mr. Eaton will affect morale among the executive ranks. Mr.
Lutz, who badly wanted to succeed Mr. Iacocca, has many
strong followers within Chrysler, but also some powerful
opponents. Some key executives threatened to resign if he was
named to succeed Mr. Iacocca, said a person with close ties
to Chrysler. However, other executives, it's understood,
would have quit had Mr. Greenwald been named as Mr. Iacocca's
successor.
   Another key question is whether Mr. Eaton has enough
experience and savvy to run Chrysler, and to succeed one of
the best-known figures in the car business. Mr. Eaton rose
through the technical ranks at GM, but his first major
operating assignment was the chairmanship of GM of Europe. He
got that job nearly four years ago.
   Speculation that Mr. Eaton will jump ship heightened on
Friday, when GM named one of his key aides a corporate vice
president. The promotion went to Louis R. Hughes, chairman
and managing director of GM's Adam Opel AG unit in Germany.
But a GM spokesman insisted the timing of the move was purely
coincidental.
   Until last week it was widely assumed, even inside
Chrysler, that Mr. Iacocca would wait until this fall before
naming his successor. But the case for making a quick
announcement gained momentum from a week of public
disclosures and developments that brought a circus-like
atmosphere to the company's deliberations.
   Early last week, The Wall Street Journal and Automotive
News, a trade publication, reported that Chrysler had tried
over a year ago to lure Roger Penske, a race-car driver
turned entrepreneur, as Mr. Iacocca's successor. But Mr.
Penske backed away when he learned that Mr. Iacocca wouldn't
retire immediately.
   Then on Thursday, the New York Times reported that Mr.
Iacocca was trying to lure Mr. Eaton to come to Chrysler. And
on Friday, The Journal reported that Chrysler's directors
would hold a rare weekend meeting to deliberate on the issue.
Amid all this, institutional investors with significant
stakes in Chrysler publicly announced their support of Mr.
Lutz to succeed Mr. Iacocca.
   The setting for the board's deliberations was Chrysler's
38th-floor suite at New York's Waldorf Astoria Hotel. There,
the first session involved directors on the board's
nominating committee -- former Boeing Co. Vice Chairman
Malcolm T. Stamper, former BCE Inc. Chairman A. Jean de
Grandpre and former Owens-Illinois Inc. Chairman Robert J.
Lanigan. With Iacocca confidant and former Chrysler personnel
chief Glenn E. White advising it, the nominating committee
interviewed Mr. Eaton.
   Then, Chrysler's remaining outside directors -- including
Northrop Corp. chairman Kent Kresa, Safeway Inc. chairman
Peter A. Magowan, Kmart Corp. chairman Joseph E. Antonini,
and former Michigan Gov. Willian G. Milliken -- joined Mr.
Iacocca and the nominating committee members in the
deliberations that lasted until midnight.