Economy:
   Most Programs Targeted for Extinction
   By the President Are Likely to Survive
   ----
   By Laurie McGinley
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
But chances are his proposals will not stand. Many of
these programs keep turning up on Bush and Reagan
administration hit lists year after year, and in the vast
majority of cases, Congress refuses to get rid of them.
   "The administration knows this is a futile gesture," said
Rep. James Oberstar (D., Minn.), a member of the House Budget
Committee. "But it makes their {budget} numbers look good.
They know there is a strong constituency for each of these
things. They can propose eliminating them and claim it's good
government. Then Congress opposes the cuts and gets accused
of bad government."
   Others applauded the president's effort. "It's important
for the administration to keep working at identifying
wasteful areas in the federal budget," said Marc Wheat,
director of tax and budget for Citizens for a Sound Economy,
a nonprofit group that favors free-market approaches to
issues.
   Some observers think prospects are better this year than
in the past for getting rid of some targeted items. Strict
spending caps require members of Congress to make cuts to
offset budget increases in areas they favor. That could "make
everyone think twice" about the hit list, says Stanley
Collender, director of federal budget policy for Price
Waterhouse.
   Even so, the savings involved are relatively modest. The
government would save $1 billion in outlays in fiscal 1993 if
Congress killed every program on the list -- an assumption
Mr. Collender described as "crazy."
   To a large extent, the list of proposed terminations is a
political game. The administration, for example, says it
wants to eliminate the National Aeronautics and Space
Administration's program to develop more powerful booster
rockets for the space shuttle. But because much of the work
is done in the district of House Appropriations Committee
Chairman Jamie Whitten (D., Miss.), the program is very
unlikely to face the knife in Congress. Still, by offering to
kill the program, NASA was able to propose more money for the
space station or other programs without appearing to add too
much to overall spending.
   In the transportation area, the administration takes on
another influential lawmaker, Sen. Frank Lautenberg (D.,
N.J.), chairman of the Transportation Appropriations
Subcommittee. The White House wants to drop Amtrak's
Northeast Corridor improvement program and end transit
subsidies for cities with more than 500,000 people. "It won't
happen because Frank Lautenberg isn't going to let it
happen," Sen. Daniel Patrick Moynihan (D., N.Y.) said.
   Here are administration proposals, and the likely
response, for cutting some other programs:
   -- The president proposes to allocate no new funds to the
Department of Housing and Urban Development for new
construction of public housing. This idea dates from the
Reagan administration. As in the past, Congress probably will
ignore the recommendation and keep the program going,
although at a low level.
   -- As he proposed last year, the president recommends
eliminating federal contributions for Perkins loans, which
are low-interest credits provided to financially needy
college students, and for Student Incentive Grants, which are
largely state financed. Lawmakers generally are reluctant to
wipe out student aid, especially in an election year.
   -- Administration officials want to cancel 135 special,
agriculture-research grants, including some lawmakers' pet
projects involving Belgian endive and dairy goats. The
administration also is likely to offend members of Congress
with a proposal to scrub $74 million for 51 "pork-barrel
projects," including funds for a food toxicology laboratory
at Michigan State University and a poultry research center at
the University of Arkansas.
   -- The Labor Department is making a renewed attempt to
repeal trade-adjustment assistance, which provides training
and allowances for workers who lose their jobs due to
imports. If the administration is successful this time, which
seems unlikely, import-affected workers could turn to another
training program for displaced workers, or they might qualify
for unemployment compensation.