Bombardier Inc.
   Is Close to Deal
   On Boeing Unit
   ----
   By G. Pierre Goad
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Jerry Dias, president of the de Havilland local of the
Canadian Auto Workers, said the union understands that
Bombardier and the Ontario government have agreed to pay 100
million Canadian dollars (US$86.7 million) for de Havilland,
a Toronto-based maker of commuter aircraft.
   Mr. Dias said that under the deal, Bombardier will pay
C$51 million for a 51% interest and Ontario will pay C$49
million for a 49% interest in de Havilland. In addition, the
Ontario government will cover any losses at de Havilland for
the next three years to a maximum of C$300 million. Mr. Dias
said he understands that there are just "a couple of little
bumps" to iron out before Bombardier, Ontario and Boeing
reach a formal agreement.
   The Toronto Star disclosed terms of the reported deal
yesterday, but Bombardier and de Havilland wouldn't confirm
the details. "We're pursuing our discussions with the Ontario
government, the {Canadian} federal government and Boeing," a
Bombardier spokeswoman said. She declined to elaborate. A de
Havilland spokesman said an agreement hasn't been signed,
adding, "negotiations are still going on."
   Ontario government officials didn't return phone calls
seeking comment. The Toronto Star reported that the
province's industry minister said a memorandum of
understanding with Bombardier could be presented to the
Ontario cabinet for approval as early as tomorrow.
   In Ottawa, a spokesman for the federal government said an
agreement "seems to be getting close." The spokesman said the
federal cabinet hasn't been presented with a final proposal.
The federal government expects to provide some sort of
financial assistance to de Havilland but won't take a direct
ownership interest, the spokesman said. He declined to
elaborate.
   Analysts said acquiring de Havilland would make Bombardier
a stronger competitor in the commuter aircraft market.
   Buying de Havilland will make Bombardier "a little like
the Boeing of commuter aircraft" by extending the range of
planes it can offer buyers, said Paul Turk, director of
publications at consulting concern Avmark Inc., which has
advised the Ontario government on de Havilland.
   On the Montreal Exchange, Bombardier's widely held Class B
shares closed unchanged at C$29.875. In late trading on the
New York Stock Exchange, Boeing was quoted at $48.875, up 50
cents.