Technology  Medicine:
   FDA Is Testing
   Popular Substitute
   Of AIDS Drug
   ----
   By Marilyn Chase
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
In Rockville, Md., an FDA spokesman stressed that the
actions didn't constitute a seizure or raid. The spokesman
said the agency asked the underground drugstores, or buyers'
clubs, to provide the drugs voluntarily on Friday after
"serious" public safety questions had arisen.
   The underground buyers' clubs, which offer an array of
low-cost vitamins and experimental treatments to AIDS
patients, have been selling the knockoff version to a market
of more than 10,000 people. The buyers' clubs, which sell
drugs not yet approved as safe and effective, have so far
operated in a gray area. While not specifically sanctioned by
U.S. regulators, they so far have been allowed to operate as
long as they present no threat to public health.
   Hoffmann-La Roche says cases of accidental overdosing with
the knockoff drug have cropped up in the past six months.
"We've received calls from physicians and patients reporting
serious adverse reactions to the underground drug," said a
company spokesman. "Most {cases} appear to be what one would
expect from taking too much DDC. There was some neuropathy
and at least one case ended up in the hospital." Neuropathy
-- DDC's main side effect -- refers to pain, tingling and
numbness in the hands and feet caused by nerve damage.
   The company said "concerned physicians" sent Hoffmann some
underground samples of the knockoff drug. Company spot checks
of the samples disclosed erratic potency levels that could
explain cases of accidental overdosing among AIDS patients
using the knockoff drug.
   However, Hoffmann declined to comment on rumors that the
potency of the underground drug swung wildly, from as low as
half of normal strength to as high as three times stronger
than the Hoffmann-La Roche product.
   In San Francisco, one buyers' club voluntarily halted
sales until results of the FDA's tests are known. Richard
Copeland of the Healing Alternatives Foundation said the club
had cooperated with FDA agents and had given them samples of
the drug to test. He wouldn't elaborate.
   In New York City, another buyers' club was skeptical of
the potency problems. "We'd be as concerned for public safety
as the agency if the problems were credible," said Derek
Hodel of the PWA Health Group. But he said he doubted the
problems were real, based on the club's own safety testing.
And he added, "Roche has been very vague" about its sources
of the underground samples.
   DDC was recently shown to be less effective than its
chemical cousin, Wellcome PLC's AZT, in a head-to-head study
of the two as first-line treatments for patients with AIDS
and AIDS-related complex. Roche is seeking FDA approval to
market the drug as a second-line therapy for people who can't
tolerate or who don't benefit from AZT.