Economy:
   Greenspan Still
   Opposes SEC
   On Bank Rules
   ---
   Fed Chairman Resists Effort
   To Value Certain Assets
   At Current Market Price
   ----
   By Rick Wartzman and David Wessel
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
His comments came in a written response to questions from
the Senate Banking Committee that was released yesterday.
   SEC Chairman Richard Breeden and his staffers have
recently stepped up their campaign to force banks to adopt
so-called market-value accounting on bank debt securities.
   The SEC has a congressional mandate to oversee accounting
standards, though it cedes day-to-day responsibility to
industry accounting groups. The agency recently has been
pressuring those groups to push a market-value approach.
   While Mr. Breeden has specified that he doesn't want to
include bank loans in the plan, Mr. Greenspan again voiced
his strong opposition. The Fed chairman noted that such a
policy was in effect before 1938, but that "serious concerns"
by federal regulators over how it was affecting the health of
the banks led to the abandonment of the concept.
   Applying market-value accounting to a large segment of a
bank's assets, without using those methods for the entire
balance sheet, would produce a particularly "distorted
picture of the institution's earnings and capital," Mr.
Greenspan warned.
   The Fed chairman, who has long spoken out against
market-value accounting, also asserted that the changes being
sought by the SEC would be especially "disruptive" during a
recession.
   In a speech to bankers in San Antonio, Texas, yesterday,
Mr. Greenspan reiterated that the Fed believes that "the
amount of monetary ease now in the pipeline is adequate to
turn the economy onto the path of sustained recovery." But
the Fed chairman qualified that statement, as he has before,
by adding that Fed is prepared to cut interest rates "if
necessary." Mr. Greenspan's comments were the first in public
since Fed policy makers met last week to set policy for the
next few weeks. Their decision hasn't been disclosed, but the
Fed hasn't cut rates in the week that has passed since the
meeting.
   In answering the Senate Banking Committee's queries, Mr.
Greenspan added reassuringly that "although forecasting is
particularly difficult in the current environment, there
doesn't appear to be a significant risk of prolonged
stagnations or general recession in the major foreign
industrial countries."
   On other matters, the Fed chairman gave the following
answers to the panel:
   -- A policy that "seeks to depreciate the dollar against
the yen . . . is not an appropriate way to stimulate the
economy." Some economists say such a policy would spur U.S.
exports, but Mr. Greenspan said it could prove
counterproductive.
   -- Mr. Greenspan is no longer abstaining in decisions
involving Bank of Credit  Commerce International and First
American Bankshares, a Washington bank in which BCCI held a
secret interest. As reported, he abstained from a Jan. 30,
1991, vote because of his acquaintance with Robert Altman,
president of First American. "Subsequently," he said, "I
concluded that my limited acquaintance with Mr. Altman didn't
pose a conflict of interest."
   -- Beginning in March, the Fed plans to publicize -- and
distribute to libraries -- its semi-annual listing of terms
charged by 160 large credit-card issuers, some of which
charge relatively low interest rates or little or no annual
fees.