The Outlook:
   Market Still Points
   To a Slow Recovery
   ----
   By Lindley H. Clark Jr.
Of course, the recession isn't officially over. The
National Bureau of Economic Research, a private group, has a
Business Cycle Dating Committee that declares the beginnings
and ends of recessions, and the committee at the moment
doesn't even have a meeting scheduled. But Geoffrey Moore of
Columbia University, a pioneer in business cycle research and
a committee member, is convinced that this recession is
history.
                                                                                                       

   Dr. Moore, who now runs his own research center at
Columbia, computes his own indexes. He thinks the latest
recession hit its low in May 1991, as the chart shows (see
accompanying illustration -- WSJ Feb. 10, 1992). He expects
the recovery to continue, "at least through the end of 1992 .
. ., but that growth will remain sluggish." Stock prices, in
his view, offer no special reason for optimism, since the
economic developments supporting stock prices also support
other indicators his center watches. "Stock prices," he says,
"don't dominate the outlook."
   Many analysts think the recent strength in stock prices
stems from the declines in interest rates. "When interest
rates on bank savings fell below 4%," one economist says,
"individuals began looking for better yields in the stock
market."
   If that's true, it has been a cautious search, according
to John Winthrop Wright, who runs an investment firm in
Bridgeport, Conn. Mr. Wright notes that in the year-end
upturn, investors focused heavily on stocks with high
price-to-book-value ratios, stocks that already were market
favorites. He says fully 50% of the Standard  Poor 500
stocks still have price-to-book value multiples under 2,
"suggesting that among these stocks, and presumably others,
there are still some reasonable values to be found."
                                                                                                       

   Until there are "concrete signs" that the economy and
corporate profits will improve this year, Mr. Wright thinks
the rise in stocks will be limited. Moreover, Gary Ciminero
of the Fleet/Norstar bank group thinks the end-of-the-year
rally has left stocks overvalued and "begging for a
sell-off." He thinks an economic upturn might give investors
an excuse to sell.
                                                                                                       

   One reason why a strong stock market may be less bullish
for the economy than usual is that there are a number of
other things going on in the economy. Higher stock prices
usually tend to have a "wealth effect," making stockholders
feel that they can afford to step up their spending. But
Maury Harris of the investment firm of PaineWebber Inc. notes
the recent market strength has been associated with weakness
in high-priced residential real estate and in commercial real
estate, which adversely affects the balance sheets of the
more affluent families that invest heavily in equities.
   Economists appear willing to wait for results from the
Federal Reserve's Dec. 20 cut in the discount rate, the fee
charged on loans to member banks, and the federal funds rate,
the fee banks charge on loans to one another. David Wyss of
the consulting firm DRI/McGraw-Hill says it usually takes six
to nine months for monetary moves to affect the economy. It's
uncertain whether politicians, with an election coming up,
will be equally patient.
                                                                                                       

   Business and consumer confidence usually lags as the
economy improves, and this period is no exception. Jerry L.
Jordan, chief economist of First Interstate Bank of Los
Angeles, says business people seem to be seeking trouble.
They say that their order books look good, but add that the
economic forecasts look terrible. Mr. Jordan has taken to
fuzzing his forecasts, saying they're "a little better" than
the consensus, in the hope that this will lead businesses to
focus on their own figures.

   The sluggish pace of the economy is helping to keep the
National Bureau from declaring the recession officially over.
According to Robert Hall of Stanford, chairman of the dating
committee, the end can't come until activity has risen high
enough that a new contraction would be a new recession. So
far the major indicators still are below their July 1990
peaks. So recession-watchers, for the present at least, will
have to remain in doubt.