The Outlook:
   Look for Jobless Rate
   To Stay High in '90s
   ----
   By Henry F. Myers
But what may be surprising, and surely more dismaying, is
a strong likelihood that unemployment may stay relatively
high for most of the 1990s.
   At 7.1% of the labor force, unemployment isn't nearly as
bad now as during the 1981-82 recession. However, the current
rate, like that in the previous downturn, understates the
problem. Add to the 8.9 million jobless last month 6.7
million part-timers who would prefer to work full time and
1.1 million so discouraged as to quit looking for a job, and
the adjusted rate hits 10.4%, according to the Bureau of
Labor Statistics.
                                                                                                       

   Moreover, the strong economic growth that drove down
unemployment in the 1980s isn't likely this time around. The
National Association of Business Economists notes that
according to the median forecast in its latest survey,
inflation-adjusted gross domestic product will grow only 2.3%
from the 1991 fourth quarter to the 1992 fourth quarter.
That's less than half the approximately 6% averaged in the
first year of postwar economic recoveries.
                                                                                                       

   Meanwhile, industry is slashing costs, and many announced
payroll cutbacks won't be completed for a year or more.
Edward Yardeni, chief economist at C.J. Lawrence Inc.,
contrasts the General Motors plan to wipe out 74,000 jobs in
the next several years with the fact that "in a normal
recovery, 100,000 auto workers would be rehired."
   And however painful the downsizing in manufacturing,
Stephen Roach of Morgan Stanley  Co. notes, "it hit a sector
that employed only about 20%" of the work force. Now it's the
turn of the service industries, which, he says, "generated a
net addition of nearly 20 million jobs" in the 1980s and
employ more than 75% of U.S. workers. Banks, insurers,
retailers and others are cutting back. Even the health-care
industry, which created 425,000 jobs in the past year, will
eventually slow its unsustainable growth as efforts to curb
the cost spiral take effect.
   The upshot, Mr. Roach estimates, "could be a hiring
shortfall of at least four million workers in the service
sector over the next five years."
                                                                                                       

   Meanwhile, changes in the economy could aggravate what
Mrs. Freedman calls "a mismatch" of jobs and people -- people
with the wrong skills or few skills, with the wrong or
inadequate work history, or living in the wrong sections of
the country.
                                                                                                       

   The deficiencies of American schools -- widely lamented
but nonetheless still unaddressed -- are especially likely to
hobble efforts to reduce unemployment at a time when work is
growing more and more technologically sophisticated. Many new
immigrants are poorly educated, too, or handicapped by poor
English. So, many workers simply won't be up to the demands
of the job market. They will be left out.
   Mrs. Freedman cites another long-term structural problem,
the aging of the work force. As people grow older, they are
less willing to move to a new area and less able to adapt to
changes in job demands.
   Some companies will respond to any shortage of skilled
labor by pushing automation. They may well succeed. Many of
the educated entrants into the labor force will be people
weaned on computer games and comfortable with data
processing, and they gradually will enable employers to
finally reap the productivity gains that computers have long
promised but only erratically delivered. But that will push
marginal jobseekers out into the cold completely.
                                                                                                       

   Such problems, Mrs. Freedman says, will probably override
any tendency for demographic changes to cause a general labor
shortage. True, the numbers of young people hunting for their
first job will be relatively low, and the entry of women into
the labor force has slowed, possibly because a mini-baby-boom
may be keeping many of them home. In any event, the labor
market has already adjusted to the huge influx of
baby-boomers, which ended a decade ago.
                                                                                                       

   Most of the people who are or will be leaving the job
market -- people in their late 50s to mid-60s -- are the
Depression babies. Like the new entrants, they are a
relatively small group. So, the U.S. doesn't face the sort of
labor shortages it might be if hordes of workers were
retiring and relatively few were coming in to replace them.
   A major imponderable is the proposed U.S.-Mexico
free-trade agreement. Whether the U.S. will reject it -- or
turn generally protectionist -- is difficult to predict. So
are the possible consequences for American jobs.
   Amid the problems, Mrs. Freedman notes a helpful trend:
the increasingly fluid patterns of work-the increases in
self-employment, in part-time and temporary work, in people
holding two jobs. The result, she says, will be a drop in the
hours many people work but not a rise in unemployment.
   That may help, but nonetheless unemployment seems likely
to run fairly high in the 1990s. And if the government tries
to cure what are basically structural problems with broad,
stimulatory fiscal and monetary policies, it may create few
jobs but risk damaging America's long-term competitiveness
and once again accelerate inflation.