Politics  Policy:
   Rostenkowski, for Once, Has to Work
   For Ways and Means to Keep His Seat
   ----
   By Jackie Calmes
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Back in Washington, he's "Mr. Chairman" of the powerful
House Ways and Means Committee, constantly courted by
business leaders, other lawmakers, even presidents. But here
at home, facing his most serious challenge since 1966, he's
the one who has to do the courting.
   Though he is favored to win in Tuesday's Democratic
primary, Rep. Rostenkowski has reason to be nervous. About
70% of the district is new to him after last year's
post-census remapping. But beyond that, anti-incumbent
sentiment is growing nationwide, and Rep. Rostenkowski has
the looks and image to be Central Casting's choice for the
role of the portly, indulged and aloof incumbent. His defeat
would amount to a giant-killing that would shake other
members of Congress and energize their foes across the
country.
   That is just what challenger Dick Simpson, a former
reformist city alderman, is after. In another living room, in
one of the lakeshore high-rises that are home to affluent,
good-government liberals, he says, "If I can defeat
Rostenkowski in this election, it opens up the possibility
that in every district of this country, it can be done."
   Mr. Simpson calls Rep. Rostenkowski "a symbol of the
corruption of Congress." But even in a year when incumbents
are suspect, the campaign shows that longtime incumbency does
have big advantages.
   At the Lincoln Park coffee, a man salutes Rep.
Rostenkowski for appointing an acquaintance to the U.S. Naval
Academy two decades ago. Hundreds of Irish-American
Chicagoans turn out at a steamy beerhall rally, bankrolled by
the campaign, to thank him for an immigration law. At St.
Stanislaus Bishop and Martyr School, he's honored for
donating $1,000 from his speaking fees to a new
computer-reading program; he estimates he has donated more
than $1 million to local causes.
   Other deeds benefiting Chicago and Illinois over the years
have won Rep. Rostenkowski support from a slew of groups and
fellow officeholders, including Republicans who appreciate
his willingness to bargain. GOP Gov. Jim Edgar has all but
endorsed him, Republican lawmakers helped draw a winnable
district for him, and the Bush administration's Energy
Department acted in time for the congressman to announce a $3
million federal grant for Chicago's Wright College in the
week before the election.
   Perhaps the biggest advantage is Rep. Rostenkowski's
money. By virtue of his wide-ranging responsibility for tax,
trade and health laws, he had a war chest of special-interest
contributions exceeding $1 million. He expects to raise more
to cover the campaign's projected $600,000 cost. Mr. Simpson
says he has raised $180,000, including $30,000 of his own,
and he'll spend about $250,000.
   The Democratic machine of which Rep. Rostenkowski has long
been a part is still a well-oiled, get-out-the-vote operation
in some wards; Mayor Richard Daley, son of the legendary
mayor who gave the congressman his start, has put his own
organization behind the campaign. And Mr. Rostenkowski's
unapologetic in-your-face style, which might turn off voters
elsewhere, is widely popular in this politically feisty city.
   "Danny Rostenkowski is quintessentially Chicago," says
Bill Singer, a former Simpson ally on the city council who
now backs Rep. Rostenkowski. "He's tough, he's gruff, he
fights. And he delivers for Chicago."
   The candidate is taking little for granted. A year ago, he
considered retiring, saying in an interview that he didn't
have the stomach at 64 for scouting unfamiliar precincts and
kissing babies. "So I'm doing it," he says now in a
what-about-it tone. "When I made up my mind I was going to
run, I made up my mind I was going to win."
   He skipped the annual West Coast golf tournaments with
lobbyists and celebrities, given the fodder they'd provide
for Mr. Simpson and the media. For the first time, he hired
consultants and pollsters. Their initial readings of the
voters weren't good. A lasting memory for many was a
televised 1989 incident in which Rep. Rostenkowski was chased
from his car by senior citizens protesting a law raising
Medicare fees to cover catastrophic illnesses. "I've got to
bust my bones to change my image," he told the Lincoln Park
group.
   But he's trying to do so without changing positions, even
unpopular ones. His blunt recital of issues sold Marguerite
Quinn, a 32-year-old prosecutor at the Lincoln Park meeting.
"When I walked in the door today, I wasn't leaning in his
direction," she said. "I thought he was just another
incumbent of that horrendous Congress. . . . And I remembered
that old lady on top of the car."
   Ms. Quinn, like a number of voters, asked him about the
House check-kiting scandal. Rep. Rostenkowski whips from his
pocket a letter attesting to his clear account from the House
sergeant-at-arms. But he adds, "I also don't see it as a big
problem. . . . We've got some real problems in this country
that we're not addressing."
   He still defends the catastrophic-illness law, since
repealed, saying, "Those people that get the benefits don't
want to pay for it, and that's always the problem." At St.
Stanislaus, a senior citizen asks why he opposes higher
Social Security benefits for "notch babies," who get lower
payments because they were born before a certain cutoff. Mr.
Simpson has made an issue of this, but Rep. Rostenkowski
says, "I don't think with the deficit the way it is that we
can afford" a change. He tells a fund-raising breakfast of
hospital executives that Mr. Bush will veto any health-system
overhaul Congress passes because "we won't give him a bill
that doesn't raise taxes" to pay its cost.
   "If you don't want to hear the truth, you go get someone
else," he tells the group at the lakefront Drake Hotel.
   Mr. Simpson's approach is fairly simple. To women, he
stresses Rep. Rostenkowski's anti-abortion stance; to
seniors, the notch; to the working class, a trade law that
Mr. Simpson says will lose jobs to Mexico; and to everyone,
Rep. Rostenkowski's longevity and his stewardship of tax
policy.
   The congressman has hinted that he might reconsider his
stand on abortion -- after the election. Otherwise, he has
chosen to ignore Mr. Simpson and to blow his own horn.
   "What I've learned through this campaign is, you've got to
remind people who you are," he says, enroute to cutting more
radio ads. "I always thought, hey, I'm doing my job, why do I
have to promote myself?"