Who's News:
   Volvo Set to Name
   Procordia's Gyll
   As New President
   ----
   By Stephen D. Moore
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
In late January, Mr. Gyll was designated Volvo's CEO-elect
when the automaker unveiled a planned reverse takeover by
Procordia. At the time, Volvo said Mr. Zetterberg would
retain management responsibility for core car and truck
operations, leaving his duties little changed in the
Volvo-Procordia concern.
   However, Mr. Gyll's move to Volvo was called into question
when the Swedish government publicly opposed the
Volvo-Procordia merger in its original form. Volvo and the
government control equal 42.7% voting stakes in Procordia.
Since rejection of the original merger plan, Volvo and the
government have huddled for weeks, attempting to sort out
their differences. Mr. Zetterberg suggested recently that a
settlement is likely within one to two weeks.
   A Volvo spokesman said the board offered Mr. Gyll the
chief executive's post during the past few days. In a
statement, Volvo said Mr. Gyll will become chief executive on
May 13, the day after Procordia's annual meeting. No
successor as Procordia chief executive has been named.
   Some analysts suggested that the accelerated promotion of
Mr. Gyll may be an attempt to step up pressure on the
government in the bargaining about Procordia's future.
   Mr. Gyllenhammar has served as Procordia's chairman the
past two years, and relations with Mr. Gyll strengthened
during that period. But at the same time, Mr. Zetterberg
appeared to be making a big hit with Volvo's organization and
the automaker's powerful chairman.
   Originally named Volvo's chief operating officer in April
1990, Mr. Zetterberg succeeded Mr. Gyllenhammar as chief
executive the following October. The swift ascent appeared to
underscore cordial relations between the two men.
   The first hint that Mr. Zetterberg may have lost the crown
surfaced last year amid turmoil at Nordbanken, the Swedish
bank that he headed before moving to Volvo. Some analysts
believe troubles at Nordbanken, which suffered losses
stemming from transactions during Mr. Zetterberg's tenure,
shook Mr. Gyllenhammar's confidence in Mr. Zetterberg's
acumen.