International:
   World Wire
   ----
   Compiled by Richard L. Holman
The emergence of regional trade blocs, long feared as a
sign of protectionism, offers more opportunities than
drawbacks, business and trade officials said at a World
Economic Forum conference.
   That view represents a significant change after years of
anxiety that a failure of world trade talks would hurt the
multilateral trade system. But since the 108-nation
negotiations under the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade
stalled more than a year ago, many nations have begun to push
ahead with regional ties.
   Indeed, business leaders at the conference in Davos,
Switzerland, said the emerging blocs, by forging new trade
strategies and removing barriers, may be the forerunners of
an even more liberal global trade system.
   Partly as insurance should the GATT talks fail, regional
blocs have moved to improve the ability of companies in their
markets to compete world-wide.
                                                                                                       

   WALESA WANTS WEST TO INVEST
                                                                                                       

   President Lech Walesa urged the West to increase
investments in Poland, saying that "without prosperity,
democracy will have a precarious life." In a speech in France
to the 26-nation Council of Europe, which promotes European
conciliation and cultural development, Mr. Walesa said
Western nations have flooded Poland with their own products
but done little to help Warsaw in its economic reform efforts
begun two years ago.
                                                                                                       

   VIETNAM POSTS EXPORT DATA
                                                                                                       

   Vietnam's exports last year totaled $1.8 billion, despite
the breakup of the Soviet Union, previously Hanoi's main
trading partner. Minerals, primarily oil, accounted for 36%
of the exports; fishery products 14%; light industrial goods
and handicrafts 14%; and forest products 3.4%. Imports,
mostly from the West, totaled $1.9 billion, 68% of it raw
materials and fuel. To bolster its economy, Hanoi has opened
up to private firms and required state firms to be
profitable.
                                                                                                       

   PRAGUE SELL-OFFS' BYPRODUCT
                                                                                                       

   Czechoslovak officials believe Prague's program to
transfer the huge state sector to private hands will have the
unintended side effect of defusing ethnic tensions. At the
end of January, 8.2 million of the estimated 10 million
eligible Czechs and Slovaks had bought privatization coupons
for investment funds or shares in firms to be sold this
spring. Officials said this indicates a strengthening of the
federation, troubled by two years of growing nationalism, as
Czechs and Slovaks will be more likely to invest their
coupons in each other's republics.
                                                                                                       

   EC'S MERGER-POWERS BATTLE
                                                                                                       

   The European Community's competition chief, Sir Leon
Brittan, has fought off an attempt to change rules and reduce
his control over EC merger decisions. The EC Commission is
expected today to extend its takeover system with only minor
changes, maintaining Sir Leon's power to order investigations
without full commission approval. The industry commissioner,
Martin Bangemann, had sought a wider say about big
cross-border merger and takeover proposals that affect the
trade bloc's markets.
                                                                                                       

   MACAO'S OUTLOOK FOR AUTONOMY
                                                                                                       

   Macao will maintain "great autonomy" after reverting to
Chinese rule in 1999, said the enclave's Portuguese governor
general, Vasco Rocha Vieira. Following talks with Chinese
Premier Li Peng in Lisbon, he said, "Macao will have its own
laws, its market economy, with all the rights that are
guaranteed today." Portugal in 1987 agreed to hand over rule
of the tiny territory on southern China's coast to Beijing,
which agreed to maintain the capitalist economy and allow
much autonomy for 50 years, except in defense and foreign
affairs.
                                                                                                       

   JAPAN'S CAPITAL SPENDING
                                                                                                       

   Spending on plant and equipment in Japan will grow 4.5% in
the year ending March 31, in line with the government goal, a
survey of 4,314 companies found.
   The Economic Planning Agency found that the firms planned
to increase capital spending 5.6% from a year earlier to 51.6
trillion yen ($408.72 billion), unadjusted for inflation. It
assumed smaller spending growth by companies excluded from
the survey, and concluded the 4.5% goal for overall growth in
outlays was achievable.
   The latest survey was conducted Dec. 1, before the Bank of
Japan reduced a key lending rate and before the government's
budget for the next fiscal year was submitted to Parliament.
The agency said it expected optimistic sentiment generated by
the growth-oriented budget to boost corporate outlays in the
current quarter, despite indicators that business sentiment
turned increasingly cautious.
   Uneasiness among Japanese consumers increased in the
quarter ended Dec. 31, a survey by the economic agency
showed. The consumer sentiment index's fall was the second in
a row, after increases in the previous three quarters.
                                                                                                       

   POSTSCRIPTS . . .
                                                                                                       

   A drive to create a speed limit on western Germany's
autobahn has accelerated recently as congestion and accidents
have increased with the opening of Eastern Europe. The issue
has sharply divided the public and government. The ruling
party opposes slowing the world's fastest freeway. . . .
Jamaica, where gang problems have been blamed for hurting
tourism, said the number of violent crimes reported last year
dropped 6.3% to 7,758 from a year earlier. Kingston cited
stepped-up police enforcement and neighborhood-watch
programs.