Seagram's Stock
   Rises on Earnings
   From Operations
   ----
   James C. Hyatt
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
In New York Stock Exchange trading, Seagram jumped $5.375
to $117.125.
   In the quarter, pretax operating profit rose 15% before a
$230 million gain on divestitures. In the fourth quarter,
Seagram completed the sale of seven U.S. spirits brands to
Jim Beam Brands Co., and disposed of several small European
spirits and wine operations.
   The gain was reduced by restructuring charges related to
work-force reductions in the U.S. and in international
spirits and wine operations.
   Seagram, which holds about a 25% interest in Du Pont Co.,
said its equity in unremitted Du Pont earnings was a $132
million loss in the latest quarter compared with a $41
million gain a year earlier.
   Directors voted to propose a 4-for-1 stock split at the
May 20 annual meeting, and to boost the quarterly payout 12%
if the split is approved, effective about June 1.
   Seagram, which currently pays 50 cents quarterly on
presplit shares, equivalent to 12.5 cents after the split,
said the new dividend would be 14 cents.
   "It is obvious that economic conditions in a number of our
key markets could be improved, but we make decisions for the
longer term," said Edgar M. Bronfman, chairman and chief
executive officer. "We have enormous confidence in the
long-term potential of our people and our brands."
   President and chief Operating Officer Edgar Bronfman Jr.
noted that for the year, before divestitures, the spirits and
wine group had a 9.5% gain in operating profit, reflecting
margin improvements and overhead reductions. Revenue for the
unit rose, aided by gains in Asia and Latin America despite
lower shipments in the U.S. and a stronger U.S. dollar, which
reduced local currency revenue when converted.
   Seagram said despite gains in unit sales and revenue,
operating income of Tropicana Products declined as a result
of increased spending for international expansion.
   The younger Mr. Bronfman said the company wanted to get
the stock price to a more accessible level, particularly in
Canada where the company has a lot of investor interest.
   For the year, operating profit before divestitures rose
6.8%, to $760 million. Fullyear divestiture gains pretax
totaled $201 million. Equity in unremitted Du Pont earnings
totaled $53 million for the year, down from $280 million a
year earlier. Net income declined 3.8% to $727 million, or
$7.67 a share, from the year earlier $756 million, or $8.03 a
share. Sales rose 3.6% to $6.34 billion.