Computers:
   IBM, in Shift,
   To Sell Clone
   Of PC in Europe
   ----
   By Paul B. Carroll
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
IBM has come to such a pass because the low end of the
market is so competitive that the company, with its
still-considerable overhead, has found it hard to make money.
Some competitors, for instance, can live comfortably with a
gross margin less than 20% -- in other words, with
manufacturing costs adding up to more than 80% of total
revenue. By contrast, IBM's general overhead -- its selling,
general and administrative expenses -- are more than 30%, so
IBM needs a gross margin of around 40% just to make any
reasonable profit.
   Some of that overhead will presumably be reallocated as
part of the reorganization IBM announced late last year. Some
will apparently be moved to businesses with higher profit
margins, which can absorb more of the basic expenses, while
low-margin businesses such as personal computers will try to
find cheaper ways to sell their products.
   IBM has already begun experimenting. Last year, for
instance, it formed a joint venture that is 51%-owned by Hong
Leong Corp., a trading company in Singapore. That venture,
called International Application Solutions Pte Ltd., began
selling a low-cost personal computer in Southeast Asia as a
test.
   As part of its recent technology-sharing agreement with
Groupe Bull of France, IBM also got the right to resell
laptop computers made by Bull's Zenith Data Systems
subsidiary. IBM, after some false starts, has been trying to
get established in the laptop market by bringing out a full
line of its own machines. Selling someone else's would mark a
real departure.
   IBM executives are apparently taking a hard look at
selling clones in the U.S., and would be likely to do so if
things go well in Europe. But U.S. sales wouldn't necessarily
follow because the IBM operations in different parts of the
world, which traditionally have been independent of each
other, have become even more so under the reorganization.
   PC Week, a trade publication that first carried the news
of the IBM move in Europe, said that IBM will, in any case,
beef up its low end later this year by expanding its PS/1
family of machines. A spokesman for IBM, Armonk, N.Y.,
declined to comment.
   IBM's personal-computer business, having lost market share
for years, is under even more pressure these days to turn
things around. The company had its first drop in PC sales
last year, as revenue dropped some 10% to less than $9
billion. In addition, as part of the reorganization, the PC
business will have to report its earnings publicly at the end
of the year for the first time. That should make PC
executives more sensitive than ever about results. Pay, which
fell across the board for IBM senior executives as the
company had its first annual loss, is also being increasingly
tied to each business unit's results.
   "I feel better about my product line this year than I did
last year," said Jim Cannavino, who runs IBM's
personal-computer and workstation business, in an interview
late last month. "I like my product line better, and the pace
I'm moving at. . . . I think I'll grow faster than the
industry."
   He also said, however, that "I think anybody who's not
nuts should be worried about the economy. . . . I think it's
at its worst, but I don't see it turning around any time
soon."