LTV Is Close
   To Agreements
   With Creditors
   ---
   Revised Restructuring Plan
   To Be Filed in February;
   Sale of Unit Approved
   ----
   By Christi Harlan
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
An LTV spokesman said he couldn't offer details of the
revised reorganization plan, which is scheduled to be filed
Feb. 14 in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in New York. Creditors'
lawyers couldn't be reached for comment. LTV has operated
under bankruptcy-court protection since July 1986.
   The revised plan would replace one filed by the company in
May. That plan called for most of the company's cash to go
toward closing the $3 billion shortfall in its steel unit's
pension funds. Creditors, as could be expected, didn't like
that plan's proposal that their claims be settled with stock
in the reorganized company.
   Some of the cash for the pension liabilities is to come
from the sale of the Dallas-based company's defense and
aerospace units. Whether part of the cash will be shifted to
creditors under the revised reorganization plan isn't known.
   LTV is currently negotiating with bidders for its
aerospace unit. As previously reported, the leading bidders
include a joint venture between Lockheed Corp. and Martin
Marietta Corp. An LTV spokesman said the company doesn't have
a deadline for choosing a bidder, which would have to be
approved by Judge Lifland.
   LTV early last month said it agreed to sell the defense
unit, AM General, to Renco Group. But Judge Lifland
temporarily delayed the sale to give more time to competing
bidder Dan T. Moore, a Cleveland investor whose initial offer
topped the Renco Group's bid of about $90 million. At
Friday's hearing, however, Mr. Moore couldn't beat the Renco
Group's sweetened offer of $110 million.
   The Renco Group will pay $67.5 million in cash at the
sale's closing, scheduled for late February, said Justin
D'Arti of the New York firm Summit Solomon  Feldesman, who
represented the purchaser. The LTV spokesman said the
remainder of the price will be paid in installments for up to
10 years, giving the deal a potential face value of $133
million. LTV will retain 10% of AM General, with an option to
sell its stake to Renco, he said.
   Mr. D'Arti said his clients plan to proceed with
production of a civilian version of AM General's most popular
product, the military utility vehicle known as the Humvee,
which received attention a year ago during the Persian Gulf
War. Some civilian models are already in driveways, including
those of actor Arnold Schwarzenegger and Mr. Moore, the
losing bidder for the manufacturer.