LEISURE  ARTS:
   Outside the Ring, She Calls the Shots
   ----
   By Joanne Kaufman
Taking care of people is one of the things Kallen, 45
years old, does well, very well. Since becoming Toney's
manager almost three years ago, she's propelled the volatile
23-year-old former drug dealer from a $20,000-a-year unknown
to a titleholder who rakes in $750,000 annually.
   What sets Kallen apart from many other managers is her
formidable one-two punch -- the personal mixed with the
professional touch. She is an unreconstructed, unapologetic
Jewish mother, sister and confidant to Toney, supervising his
diet, enforcing his curfew, insisting that he wear a suit or
sport jacket for travel and that he mind his manners. On
occasion, Kallen and her husband, a general contractor, have
boarded the boxer at their suburban Detroit home, even taken
him, his mother and girlfriend along on family vacations.
   Kallen, a Detroit native, constantly works the phone --
her answering machine plays the theme from "Rocky" -- to set
up bouts, bigger bouts, better bouts, network bouts. She
comes up with publicity strategies, such as arranging for
Toney's likeness to glower out from trading cards.
   "Whatever she says goes," says Toney. "I was 12 and 0 in
1989 and I wanted a title fight. I was hungry and ready to go
but Jackie said to cool it. She said wait, you'll have the
state title, American title, world title and it came just the
way she said it would."
   "I like creating a champion. I like being a star maker,"
says Kallen, whose 112-pound frame would put her in the
flyweight class but whose jewelry -- tennis bracelets, a
bracelet with boxing-glove charms, a ring with boxing-glove
charms, a choker with a pendant of diamond-edged boxing
gloves that was a Christmas present from Toney -- would
easily lift her into the middleweight division. "This is my
calling," adds Kallen, whose other callings include a
twice-weekly entertainment column for a suburban Detroit
paper, a public relations firm and a residential construction
business with her husband.
   "This is good defensive work," says Kallen as she watches
Toney spar with Lonny Beasley, another of the five fighters
she manages. "James is working on blocking punches. When he's
through blocking he'll spin off and start hitting Lonny. See,
there he goes spinning out from the ropes. No, he wants some
more punches.
   "Ooh, this is getting a little active," she says
worriedly, jumping up and hurrying over to consult with
Toney's trainer, Bill Miller. "I don't want either of them
hurt because they both have matches coming up. I don't want
it to get out of control. I've had fights canceled because
one of my guys had a cut under his eye."
   Even though Kallen likes to take charge, she would never
tell the trainer how to run a sparring session any more than
she would scream directives during a match (though in the
heat of the moment she has been known to holler "jab, jab;
keep your hands up") or jump into the ring to complain about
a call. And she certainly would never tell a reporter how to
write a story except to express the fervent hope that this
isn't going to be another of those "lady and the champ"
pieces. She gets that kind of stuff a lot. "But the real
insulting thing," she says, "is people asking if I'm the real
manager. Because you're blond and female people think you're
someone's girlfriend or that you're fronting for someone."
   Kallen's interest in boxing grew out of her association
with six-time world boxing champion Tommy Hearns, an early
client of her P.R. firm. "I went to see him in a match and I
was mesmerized," she says. "I liked the intensity. It was
almost survival of the fittest."
   She began spending time ringside at Detroit-area gyms,
used her backyard satellite dish to pull in nightly matches,
and started an informal tutorial with Emanuel Steward, then
Hearns's manager. "I'm the type of person who drinks it all
in," says Kallen, who also spent a bit of time in the ring to
learn what the sport requires. Kallen was involved with the
boxing for 10 years before she became a manager.
   "I didn't plan on this," she explains. "I just ran into a
fighter who had no manager and he asked me to do it. And when
he retired because of injuries I started looking for other
guys."
   Kallen spotted one of those other guys, Toney, when she
accompanied a friend to a local gym. "He looked like he could
be as good as Tommy Hearns," she recalls. "He had speed, he
had control, he had the perfect attitude -- that kind of mean
nobody-can-beat-me attitude." It's an attitude Kallen has
helped Toney take to the mat (the boxer's record stands at 28
wins, two draws) and to the bank (his purses will likely
exceed $1 million this year).
   "Every manager will say `my fighter will fight anyone,'"
says Jeff Ryan, managing editor of Ring magazine. "But the
strategy these days is to avoid the tough fights and keep the
guy champion as long as you can and make as much money on him
as you can. Jackie has said `my guy will fight the toughest
fighters,' and he has."
   Those who've worked with Kallen tell of her willingness to
gamble. Against all advice, for example, she put 20-1
underdog Toney in the ring for the IBF middleweight title.
They also comment on her reliability. "Her fighters come in
in shape, well-mannered and prepared to fight," says Ron
Katz, who arranges fights for Top Rank Inc., a boxing
promotion company. They acknowledge her public relations
savvy. "James is a half-million-dollar fighter now and some
managers would let their guys get rusty while waiting for
another half-million-dollar fight," says Top Rank President
Bob Arum. "But Jackie opted for a lower purse for the chance
of a fight on network television. She understands how
important exposure is."
   What Kallen doesn't understand, say some observers, is
that she needs to focus her attention better. "She has too
many boxers and they're not any good. They're not going
anywhere," says Steward. "She has to let them go and just
concentrate on James."
   Others believe she should push her fighters harder. "I
think she could rule with more of an iron hand," says Eric
Gitter, president of Kayo Cards, a trading-card manufacturer.
"She may tend to baby James and the others a bit too much."
   That may be, but don't anybody make the mistake of
thinking Kallen is some kind of palooka.
   "I'll keep jabbing your face until I get your attention,"
she warns. "I'm not the type to knock you out with one punch,
but I'll be all over you until I get what I want.