Letters to the Editor:
   Hypocritical Attack
   On Victims' Motives
Instead of encouraging the release of existing studies,
and the undertaking of others that are necessary to protect
the public, these physicians -- many of whom derive half
their income from breast implants -- have engaged in a
massive effort to discredit the individuals and groups that
are the bearers of this bad news.
   True, many of the women who have been victimized by this
cover-up will sue and likely collect monetary awards. And
their lawyers will collect fees. But for Dow Corning and the
plastic-surgery community -- which have made hundreds of
millions of dollars from breast implants -- to attack the
motives of their victims is hypocrisy and a dangerous
diversionary tactic designed to hide the real issue.
   Were it not for private lawsuits, it is unlikely any
action whatsoever would be taken against the manufacturer or
the plastic surgeons involved.
   Harvey F. Wachsman, M.D., J.D.
   President
   American Board of Professional Liability Attorneys
   Great Neck, N.Y.
   ---
   Your editorial appropriately examines the role of the
print media in the implant controversy. Unfortunately, the
media's emphasis has shifted from the primary concern of
product safety to secondary concerns of the conduct of the
implant manufacturers and possible litigation.
   Women with implants and those contemplating having them,
either for reconstructive purposes following breast-cancer
surgery or for cosmetic purposes, are frustrated and
frightened by the proliferation of publicity without any
significant answers regarding safety being offered.
   Whether in fact appropriate testing has or has not been
conducted, one cannot deny that more than one million women
have had breast implants. There is little evidence in the
medical literature that any significant number of women have
been harmed by the implants. It seems reasonable to assume
that by now any mentally sound woman with implants is aware
of the controversy. Thus it would be appropriate to ask these
women publicly, through the media or the government, if they
actually have noticed serious complications and then explore
the validity of such claims. If 50,000 of the million-plus
women with implants claimed injury, at least we would know
that 95% or more of the women with implants, by not
responding, would be signifying they did not feel injured by
implants. Follow-up investigation by an appropriate
authoritative body could then discern real from assumed
injury.
   I would urge Dr. David Kessler of the FDA, Dr. Cole of the
American Society of Plastic Surgeons, or a prominent member
of the media to come forth and conduct such a survey of women
with implants. This issue should be settled in the public
domain rather than in closed hearings or in courtrooms where
evidence is suppressed as a part of settlements.
   Murray H. Seltzer, M.D.
   Attending Breast Surgeon
   St. Barnabas Medical Center
   Livingston, N.J.