Foreign Exchange:
   Dollar Gains Against European Units
   After Greenspan Dims Rate-Cut Hopes
   ----
   By John van Rosendaal
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
Mr. Greenspan, who as Fed chairman oversees U.S. monetary
policy, told Congress during his reconfirmation hearing later
in the day that he thinks the last round of official
interest-rate cuts provided enough stimulus to boost the
economy.
   The chairman's comments, and technical signals pointing to
a stronger dollar, caused the U.S. unit to rise against most
European currencies in North American trading. Even a hint of
a cut in interest rates would typically have eroded support
for the dollar, since it would have widened the already
yawning gap between U.S. and European interest rates.
   Late in New York, the dollar was quoted at 1.6014 marks,
up from 1.6000 marks late Tuesday in New York. The U.S.
currency was unchanged at 125.75 yen. Sterling was trading at
$1.7985, up from $1.7920.
   In early trading in Tokyo Thursday, the dollar was at
125.60 yen, up from 125.17 yen at Wednesday's close.
Meanwhile, the U.S. currency was trading at 1.6050 marks, up
from 1.5903 marks Wednesday.
   Overall, Mr. Bush failed to provide the foreign-exchange
market with a sense of direction, and traders continue to be
at odds over the dollar's long-term trend. Since the end of
last year, two camps have divided the currency market: One
sees the dollar moving higher as the U.S. economy improves
and other major economies weaken; the other sees the dollar
falling on more proof of sluggishness in the U.S.
   "Sentiment seems to change almost daily," said Alexis
McCarthy, a corporate foreign-exchange trader at Banque
Indosuez, New York. Large investors who focus on strong
fundamental trends refrained from entering the market this
month, waiting for a direction to emerge, she said.
   In the meantime, she said, more speculative traders rule
the market, leading to "very, very choppy trading."
   Mr. Bush's address couldn't give the market the desired
hints, Ms. McCarthy said, because most of his plans,
politically charged in this election year, need to pass
Congress to be implemented.
   Still, Mr. Bush's stated preference for low interest rates
and a similar call in the U.S. budget for fiscal year 1993,
exerted pressure on the dollar. "Working with the Federal
Reserve, we will continue to support monetary policy that
keeps both interest rates and inflation down," Mr. Bush said
in his State of the Union. In the budget, released early in
the U.S. day, White House economic advisers asserted that the
Fed has plenty of room to further relax monetary policy.
   "The moderation of inflation provides the Federal Reserve
ample room to ease interest rates further if this appears
warranted," the budget said.
   U.S. gross domestic product -- or GDP -- data for the 1991
fourth quarter further added to the market's speculation
about interest rates. The U.S. economy expanded at a
seasonally adjusted annual preliminary rate of 0.3% in the
quarter, after adjusting for inflation. For all of 1991,
realor inflation adjusted-GDP fell 0.7%, the first decline
since a 2.2% drop in 1982. In 1990, real GDP rose 1%.
   Prices, as measured by the GDP-based implicit price
deflator, rose at a 1.7% annual rate in the fourth quarter,
compared with a 2.1% rate in the third quarter. This low rate
of inflation pointed to room for the Fed to ease, if
necessary, and left the field open for Mr. Greenspan's
testimony before the Senate Banking Committee.
   The Fed chairman said that the recent reduction in
interest rates should be enough to spur an economic recovery.
The Fed cut its discount rate -- which it charges for loans
to commercial banks -- by a full percentage point to 3.5%
Dec. 20. "Is it enough? I think so," Mr. Greenspan said.
"Monetary policy is clearly working to try to break the back
of the credit crunch," the chairman said, adding that the Fed
sees a "stirring in the market," as home building increases
and the erosion in the economy is showing signs of declining.
   But Mr. Greenspan added that "we will be there" if the
policy-making Federal Open Market Committee determines that
more easing is necessary.
   Against the yen, the dollar was little changed, with most
traders reluctant to trade the dollar above 126 yen, because
of fears of central bank intervention.
   The market now looks for U.S. economic data to test
assumptions about the U.S. economy, and more specifically to
get an impression of the impact of the Fed's latest easing on
economic performance.