Credit Ratings:
   Westinghouse
   Ratings on Debt
   Are Cut by Moody's
   ----
   By Gabriella Stern
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The ratings service noted that the credit unit's
nonperforming loans, particularly real estate and highly
leveraged transactions, currently account for 30% of its loan
portfolio, and said the troubled loans "will continue to
experience further stress."
   Moody's said that the credit unit is funding substantial
off-balance-sheet commitments which "are expected to continue
to impede management's efforts to curtail its exposure in
these areas."
   The ratings concern also said the world-wide recessionary
economy "is likely to delay improvement in the profitability
of the parent's core business." In addition to financial
services, Westinghouse, which is based in Pittsburgh, has
businesses in power generation, defense electronics,
environmental cleanup, broadcasting and office furniture.
   A Westinghouse spokesman expressed disappointment over the
downgrade, but said the company doesn't expect the action to
affect its ability to market Percs. Westinghouse plans to use
the Percs proceeds to reduce debt. The spokesman took issue
with Moody's economic forecast, saying, "Their view of a
sustained recession in 1992 is more pessimistic than our
own." He added that Westinghouse is "pleased" that Moody's
affirmed the commercial paper ratings for both companies, and
noted that Standard  Poor's Corp. has affirmed its debt
ratings.
   Russell L. Leavitt, an analyst with Salomon Brothers, said
the downgrade means Westinghouse will probably have to pay
higher interest rates on debt capital. In addition, the
company might be forced to sweeten the terms of the Percs
offering. "This has got to be a disappointment to the
company," said Mr. Leavitt. Said another analyst, "People
will be more cautious, so Westinghouse will have to give more
favorable prices and terms to buyers of the Percs, possibly a
better yield. That'll make it more expensive to
Westinghouse."