Business Bulletin:
   A Special Background Report
   On Trends in Industry
   And Finance
   ----
   By Pamela Sebastian
A plus: Some renters mull ownership as a better return on
their savings due to lower interest rates, says Joshua
Frankel, manager of J.I. Sopher  Co.'s West Side Manhattan
office. But he and others say loans "are much harder to get"
for first-timers in the current application logjam. Boise,
Idaho, agent John Amyx says first-timers there speed through
the loan process as lenders try to get new business.
   The proposed tax credit could help tackle the
"down-payment problem," says John Tuccillo, chief economist
for the National Association of Realtors.
                                                                                                       

   KIDS, NOT SCHOOLS, tug the most at corporate conscience
and coffers.
   Schools, always a high priority for corporate donors, now
take a back seat to other child education and health
programs, says Craig Smith, publisher of Corporate
Philanthropy Report, Seattle. Its recent survey finds that
grant-makers increasingly move away from school bureaucracies
toward programs that help preschoolers get ready for first
grade or combat social and health problems that impair
learning.
   About $400 million a year, or just 6.7% of all corporate
giving, goes to children, says Mr. Smith. But the trend is
growing and seminars abound, such as the "Corporate Summit
for Children" in Washington in April. An effort of the
National Commission to Prevent Infant Mortality and others,
it hopes to draw top officials who can form company policy
and partnerships plus lead on small steps like stocking skim
milk in vending machines for moms-to-be.
                                                                                                       

   IT ISN'T KOSHER, it's halal, and Muslims want New York to
police marketing.
   Muslim leaders and some meat producers want the state to
monitor the sale of halal foods made under Muslim dietary
law. A proposal backed by Assemblyman William Parment would
be the first state law against halal fraud and would operate
much the way New York now monitors kosher food marketing. He
says the state would benefit from "a fee stream that comes
from violations." Meat producers would gain a new,
high-margin line plus a leg-up as sanctioned suppliers in the
U.S.
   What about the Muslims? "Our concern is a religious
concern," says Imam WarithuDeen Umar. "Muslims have a right
to be protected just as the Jews do." Newsletter Kosher
Business suggests that a halal law could curb sales of kosher
foods that Muslims may now substitute. But Menachem Lubinsky,
head of Lubicom, a New York marketer, says that even if all
halal trade ended, kosher firms "would still thrive." Empire
Kosher Poultry's halal sales make up 5% of its total.
   In 1991, New York collected $134,000 in kosher marketing
penalty assessments, up 5.5% from the year before.
                                                                                                       

   COUPON-CLIPPERS saved $4 billion in 1991 by using
cents-off coupons, up 14% from the year-earlier total, says
NCH Promotional Services in Chicago.
                                                                                                       

   PHONE SWINDLERS meet a new foe: the Consumer Protection
Network, a project to unite consumers, companies, public
service and law groups. The effort by the National Consumers
League and the Reference Point Foundation plus sponsors led
by Citibank MasterCard/Visa plan a consumer hot line,
clearinghouse and research unit.
                                                                                                       

   MEDIUM-SIZED companies are the best bet for an economic
recovery, says the American Express Outlook report. Why?
Giant firms still reel from restructurings and small firms
are hamstrung by cash needs.
                                                                                                       

   FREQUENT SHOPPERS can expect more targeting by competitive
retailers.
   The ideal might be to "put a moat around your stores with
the customers inside them," suggests Murray Forseter of Chain
Store Age Executive. But reality promises more programs that
reward frequent shoppers with discounts and other perks.
One-third of surveyed specialty retailers eye such a plan in
the next 18 months. Is it wise? "You get the larger return,
but you also have the larger expense," says Jack Schultz,
head of the National Retail Federation. And it's tough to
phase out, he says.
   Such favored shopper programs began in grocery stores.
Now, many big retailers use plans ranging from high
credit-card limits to clubby programs with high service and
discounts. Episode, with 27 U.S. women's shops, lengthens
qualifying time on its VIP plan to $1,000 spent within two
months from one month. And Neiman Marcus, a pioneer with its
InCircle program, adds status by collecting member recipes in
a cookbook that raises nearly $100,000 for charity.
   Georgette Mosbacher's entry: baked potato and cottage
cheese, for eating at home before facing rich gala food.
                                                                                                       

   BRIEFS: Business Card Archives in Fairfield, Iowa, seeks
unusual cards for its "best of the best" display at the
Printing Expo Show in Philadelphia. . . . New York's Lake
Isle Press Inc. offers "Tray Gourmet," a cookbook by three
Yale graduates on how to dress up college cafeteria fare by
mixing, matching and microwaving.