MANAGING
   ----
   By Joan E. Rigdon
MORE COMPANIES hire directors who can consult for the
company, too.
   In the past, boards were seen as a "rubber stamp for
management," says Judy Fischer, editor of the newsletter
Executive Compensation Reports, Fairfax, Va. That's partly
because many company executives tapped their cronies for
seats on the board.
   Now some companies are demanding specific skills, and it's
becoming less important that a director "went to Yale with
the CEO," Ms. Fischer says. "We see it as a turn to a more
professional board that will be more independent, more
knowledgeable."
   According to the newsletter's study of 1990 proxy reports,
Monsanto pays one director $100,000 a year to advise the
chemical company on biological sciences. A Waste Management
Associates director who offers business-development expertise
gets paid at least $80,000 a year. Warner-Lambert pays one
director $10,000 and another $20,000 for consulting services
in "specialized" fields.
   Directors with international savvy are also in demand.
Shearson Lehman Hutton, a unit of American Express, pays
American Express director Henry Kissinger $200,000 a year for
"international economic and political advisory services."
                                                                                                       

   Sideways Moves Grow
   Increasingly Common
                                                                                                       

   WITH fewer promotions to offer, one company that has
slashed its staff is encouraging workers to find happiness in
lateral moves.
   RJR Nabisco's Nabisco Foods Group in Parsippany, N.J.,
says it's telling some workers who don't like their jobs to
work with managers to change their job descriptions -- or
else move sideways within the company.
   "The company can't be the only one responsible for career
planning," says F. Wade Bates, director of human resources at
Nabisco Foods. "In the past, people went with the flow,
unless they really wound up being a square peg in a round
hole. Now an individual has to take charge of his own
career."
   To make the lateral moves more palatable, Nabisco added a
few tiers to each salary range, increasing the odds that the
moves can bring raises instead of pay cuts. "People aren't
willing to take anything that's not a promotion," Mr. Bates
says.
   So far this year, about 70 of Nabisco's corporate staff
members have met with outside consultants from outplacement
firm Right Associates to discuss what they're looking for in
their jobs. Then they discuss their options with Nabisco
personnel workers, and finally, with their bosses.
   Some workers who were reluctant to move before are now
choosing to leave departments slated for more staff cuts,
even if their own jobs aren't in danger, Mr. Bates says. The
moves save jobs for those who want to stay. One surprise:
Nabisco discovered that a worker who had been fielding
consumer complaints for about 18 months had a marketing
degree and wanted to use more of those skills. Now the person
is a marketing analyst.
   Mr. Bates says the worker's marketing experience was
largely forgotten once her resume was filed. "That can happen
in large companies."
   Next year, the company will double the number of staff
members who go through the program. Ultimately, Mr. Bates
hopes to raise morale. "People can get into the motivational
doldrums when it doesn't look like there's a lot moving," he
says.
                                                                                                       

   Schools Try to Help
   Alumni Land Jobs
                                                                                                       

   MORE universities take in novative steps to give alumni
job leads.
   Northwestern University is trying to get its graduates to
boost each other's careers through its new "AlumNet" data
base, which details the educations and careers of about 750
alumni "volunteers."
   The volunteers agree to help fellow alumni who are hunting
for jobs or changing careers. For instance, an alumnus
looking for work as a marketing manager in Atlanta can key
those requirements into a computer that spits out appropriate
names and numbers. Job seekers should expect "nothing more
than advice," AlumNet literature says, though sometimes the
connection results in a job interview.
   Meanwhile, Ball State University in Muncie, Ind., uses its
alumni database to offer prospective employers a roster of
candidates, including "mini-resumes," within 24 hours.
   Scott McDaniel, a controller at a Waste Management
division in Fort Wayne, Ind., used the data bank to hire a
staff accountant. "You know {the candidate} has the
educational background," he says.
   Another sign: Purdue University's Alumni Association
publishes its members' job-hunting ads free in its
70,000-circulation magazine.
                                                                                                       

   Odds and Ends
                                                                                                       

   STUDENTS at Carnegie Mellon University's Graduate School
of Urban and Public Affairs must now learn the appropriate
way to shake hands and give gifts. The school's new required
course, Managing in a Multicultural Society, also addresses
the different ways cultures perceive time and read body
language. . . . American Telephone  Telegraph allows
subordinates at its Richmond, Va., circuit board plant to
give their bosses performance appraisals. Workers fill out
anonymous surveys in which they give managers numerical
ratings. Later, the boss meets with workers to discuss ways
to improve. "It changes the whole dynamic of performance if
you know you're going to get appraisal from your
subordinates," says consultant John Clifford, who runs the
program.