Tax Report:
   A Special Summary and Forecast
   Of Federal and State Tax
   Developments
   ----
   By Scott R. Schmedel
But Granwell says companies already are asking how they
are going to obtain other companies' data for required price
comparisons. Steven Hannes of Deloitte  Touche, CPAs, says
some rules represent efforts to revive IRS positions rejected
by courts in pricing disputes involving Bausch  Lomb, Merck
and Sundstrand. Also, he says, some rules clash with the laws
of other nations, raising concerns about double taxation for
U.S. and foreign multinationals.
   The biggest issue is acceptability to the U.S.'s treaty
partners, says Robert T. Cole, a Washington lawyer: "It's a
hard sell for the Treasury."
                                                                                                       

   (READERS ARE INVITED to insert appropriate quips here.)
The widow of a man who had been a client of Harab, Kamerow 
Associates, CPAs, Rockville, Md., filed a return for her late
husband in 1991. Here are excerpts from a letter addressed
recently to the dead man by the IRS's Taxpayer Assistance
Section in Atlanta: "We are processing your gift tax return,
Form 709, for calendar year 1990 and find we need more
information. Please provide your date of death.
   ". . . If we do not hear from you, your account may
reflect incomplete or incorrect information. . . . If you
have any questions about this letter, . . . you may call the
IRS telephone number listed in your local directory . . .,
but the office at the address shown on this letter is most
familiar with your case. . . . We apologize for any
inconvenience we may have caused you, and thank you for your
cooperation."
                                                                                                       

   SWEET CHARITY: The IRS scrutinizes solicitations that
taint exemptions.
   Prodded by Congress, the IRS began in 1989 to study
dubious fund-raising practices. It looked at solicitations to
see whether charities specified the nondeductible value of
benefits -- tote bags or "free" dinners, say -- handed out in
return for contributions. It audited some donors who got
benefits to see if they deducted more than was allowable. Now
the IRS is telling auditors looking at charities to report on
a broad range of abusive fund-raising activities.
   These practices may include misleading donors about the
deductibility of gifts, hiring professional for-profit
fund-raisers who use questionable methods, spending too high
a proportion of receipts on administration and fund raising,
or running activities that generate taxable income. Apart
from the audits, the IRS will watch for and caution charities
that advertise fund-raising affairs in erroneous or
misleading ways.
   Eventually, the IRS is to report to Congress on fund
raising and on tax-revenue losses from invalid deductions, to
help it weigh the need for new law.
                                                                                                       

   I PUT MY WATCH on the cuff, she said. Diana L. Jerkins of
Atlanta signed agreements to rent a diamond watch and a
diamond ring provided to her by a leasing company owned by
her CPA husband, T. Louis Jerkins, but made no payments. Use
of the jewelry was unreported personal income to him, the Tax
Court held.
                                                                                                       

   NEW YORK HAS A PLAN to trim errors in personal payments of
state estimated income taxes. When it sends quarterly payment
vouchers to 600,000 filers in February, it will enclose
account statements and reconciliation forms. Taxpayers who
find account discrepancies can resolve them when filing
payments and returns due April 15.
                                                                                                       

   VIRGINIA SPEEDS UP an accelerated-refund program that on
average has returned overpaid state taxes to qualifying
filers in 10 days. Now claims taken to over 40 local offices
can be sent electronically to Richmond for immediate
processing. Refund checks can be sent in a day or two.
                                                                                                       

   RETURNS THAT PASS audits without change can get immediate
report cards.
   The IRS may take months to notify a filer formally that it
has accepted an audited return as is. But now the IRS is
telling its auditors to speed up the process when they
interview a taxpayer's representative in the taxpayer's
absence and decide at the meeting to recommend that there be
no change. At that point, the auditor is to hand over an
informal report that the representative can deliver to the
client.
   The auditor is to issue the report on the standard form
used to record audit results for the type of return being
examined. But instead of listing adjustments, the auditor is
to insert the words "No change -- subject to District
Director's approval." The auditor won't issue an informal
report if the taxpayer is present to hear the results, but
the IRS will continue to issue formal closing reports to
taxpayers.
   The new policy responds to a request by the National
Association of Enrolled Agents, a tax-practitioner group.
                                                                                                       

   BRIEFS: Taxbreak '92, a one-hour program on preparing
returns, produced in association with the IRS, will be
broadcast by most public-TV stations Sunday afternoon. . . .
Rep. Jenkins (D., Ga.), a House Ways and Means Committee
member, says he won't seek re-election this year.