Winter Olympics 1992:
   Television Highlights
   ----
   By Kevin Goldman
Sentimental favorite Dan Jansen makes his final 1992 bid
for an Olympic speed-skating medal in the men's 1,000-meter
race. One of his top competitors is a second American, Eric
Flaim, but the favorite is Igor Zhelezovsky of the United
Team.
   Other events on the CBS prime-time broadcast will include
speed skiing (Michael Prufer of France holds the world record
of 139 mph), the men's giant slalom, and highlights of
quarterfinal hockey games.
                                                                                                       

   TV Captures Viewers
                                                                                                       

   Entering its second full week, CBS continues to do better
with the Olympics than naysayers predicted. According to A.C.
Nielsen Co. preliminary ratings, CBS was watched Sunday
evening by 22.4% of U.S. homes with TV sets. NBC had 12.2%
and ABC, which tried to boost ratings with a special $100,000
prize on "America's Favorite Home Videos," attracted 10.7%.
Those rascals at Fox are holding a "Summer Games" week of
special programming aimed at taking viewers away from CBS.
   Ratings show CBS hasn't robbed its rivals of viewers.
Instead, folks who usually avoid TV are plopping down to
watch the Games.
                                                                                                       

   Cheers for O'Brien
                                                                                                       

   While prime-time hosts Paula Zahn and Tim McCarver (still
marooned in a poorly conceived studio) have yet to find their
footing, a gold medal goes to the CBS late-night team of Pat
O'Brien and his producer Bob Mansbach. Their half-hour
program each night at 11:30 is a welcome mix of humor,
off-beat pieces (including one by the always welcome Bill
Geist), and snappy interviews.
   ---
                   Tuesday, February 18
                                                                                                       

                         7-9 a.m.
                                                                                                       

                            CBS
                                                                                                       

   -- Alpine skiing live (men's giant slalom)
   -- Short-track speed skating live
   -- Speed skiing live
                                                                                                       

                         1-6 p.m.
                                                                                                       

                            TNT
                                                                                                       

   -- Alpine skiing (men's giant slalom)
   -- Cross-country skiing (men's 4x10 km. relay)
   -- Hockey (quarterfinals)
   -- Short-track speed skating
   -- Speed skiing
                                                                                                       

                         8-11 p.m.
                                                                                                       

                            CBS
                                                                                                       

   -- Alpine skiing (men's giant slalom)
   -- Speed skating (men's 1,000 m.)
   -- Hockey (highlights)
   -- Short-track speed skating
   -- Speed skiing
                                                                                                       

   All times are Eastern Standard; events are available for
coverage, but plans may change.)