Growing Movement
   To `Buy American'
   Debates the Term
   ---
   What Is an `American' Car?
   Firms Offering Bonuses
   To Employees Disagree
   ----
   By Jacqueline Mitchell
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Monsanto Chemical Co. of St. Louis said yesterday that
Fords made in Mexico meet its definition of American. But
most everybody else disagrees.
   To Bonnie Bell cosmetics of Cleveland, "a car made in the
U.S. by a foreign-owned corporation doesn't qualify,"
declares President Jess A. Bell. That puts him at odds with
Dr. William Lippy, the surgeon from Warren, Ohio, who has
become an overnight sensation by offering up to $600 to each
of his 35 employees who buys an American car by July 4.
   Dr. Lippy counts Ohio Hondas, but isn't sure about
Kentucky Toyotas or Mazdas made in Flat Rock, Mich. -- just
20 minutes from the Motor City. He says he'd have to analyze
what percentage of the parts are made in the U.S., but he
hasn't done that yet. "Look, I'm a physician," Dr. Lippy
says. "I can't get that technical."
   "We'll review each case as it comes," says Dr. Lippy's son
David, who is handling his father's "Jump Start America"
campaign. "It gets a little tricky in some cases."
   That's putting it mildly.
   There's no doubting the force behind the Buy American
movement sweeping the U.S. On Wednesday, Los Angeles County,
where more than half the cars on the road have Japanese
nameplates, scrapped a contract for a Japanese company to
build rail cars for its mass transit system.
   And yesterday's Detroit Free Press reported on a
nationwide poll in which 607 adults were asked: "The next
time you buy a car, will you consider only foreign cars, only
American-made cars, or will you consider both?" The result:
Just 4% said they will consider only foreign cars the next
time and 51% said they will consider only American cars,
which may or may not be true but is certainly the right thing
to say these days.
   Cars are a natural focus of the Buy American movement: The
auto industry accounts for three-fourths of the U.S. trade
deficit with Japan. Besides, cars are just so American.
Yesterday, the president of Monsanto, which sells auto makers
everything from paint resins to seat-cover fibers, traveled
to Detroit to announce "Project Get Rolling," which offers
each of the company's 12,000 employees $1,000 to buy or lease
a new American car.
   "It's becoming more and more difficult to define what's
American, given the complexities of today's auto industry,"
Robert G. Potter said at a press conference. So Monsanto
takes a broad view. It means any vehicle assembled in the
U.S., Canada or Mexico.
   Canada and Mexico? "All autos assembled in North America
benefit the Big Three auto makers" as well as U.S. workers,
Mr. Potter explained, because they use U.S.-made parts and
are sold and serviced in the U.S. "We view this as a
positive," he said.
   But the United Auto Workers union views it as outrageous.
"We would like people to pledge allegiance to the U.S.,"
declares David Perdue, president of the UAW local at an
Arlington, Texas, plant that General Motors Corp. has
threatened to close. Cars built in Canada and Mexico, says
Mr. Perdue, are "taking away our jobs in the U.S."
   That's also the view of Douglas Brown, president of Brown
Paper of Greenwich, Conn. His workers, too, will get $1,000
for buying or leasing a new American car, but they won't have
the same wide choice as Monsanto employees. No cars built in
Canada or Mexico qualify, so the Canadian-made minivans that
Chrysler Corp. once advertised as "born in America" are out.
"I don't have anything against Canada, but it's no different
than the cars made in Germany or Mexico or any place else,"
Mr. Brown says.
   The Brown plan even excludes cars made in the U.S. by
foreign-based car companies, such as Nissan Motor Co., Honda
Motor Co. and Toyota Motor Corp. "The only reason the
Japanese are building cars here is to circumvent criticism
that they got from flooding the market," Mr. Brown says.
"It's more for show than anything else. And the jobs they're
providing were stolen from the Big Three."
   But even some Big Three vehicles that are made in the U.S.
don't meet Mr. Brown's standards. The most notable is the
Ford Probe. It's built for Ford by Mazda at Mazda's Michigan
plant, which is represented by the UAW. On the other hand,
the Geo Prizm built in California by a Toyota-General Motors
Corp. joint venture does qualify, because GM has an ownership
stake in the plant.
   Which doesn't matter a whit to Franklin Bank in the
Detroit suburb of Southfield, which disqualifies both the
Probe and the Prizm. But unlike Brown, the bank doesn't mind
Big Three cars built in Canada or Mexico. "Canada hasn't
wreaked havoc in the U.S. like the Japanese," declares bank
spokeswoman Rebecca J. Christian. Any company with a
corporate checking account with the bank is covered: $100 for
the first 10 people at each company who buy an American car.
Or a Mexican car. Mexican cars qualify because "the profits
go to an American company," Ms. Christian says.
   Dr. Lippy, meanwhile, is riding his Buy American offer to
national fame. The Ohio ear surgeon appeared on ABC News last
week, and on the CBS Morning Show yesterday. He has made his
effort a family affair. He has opened an office manned by two
of his sons and is trying to persuade other companies to
launch campaigns of their own. To date, Dr. Lippy says, "we
have signed up 140 companies with 35,000 employees." So far
only two of his own employees have bought a new American car,
but he hopes more will accept his offer in the spring.
   Despite all the confusion, Monsanto is thinking of
exporting its effort to England in the form of a Buy British
campaign. Monsanto has two plants that employ about 500
workers in the U.K., a country where the major auto makers --
Ford, General Motors and Nissan -- are all foreign-owned. But
so far, President Potter says, "it's just a thought as
opposed to a program."
   ---
                  The Buy American Quiz
                                                                                                       

   One of these cars is made only in the United States. Can
you name it? For extra points, match all the cars to their
countries of origin.

       1.  Pontiac LeMans          A.  Canada
       2.  Chevrolet Lumina        B.  Korea
       3.  Mercury Capri           C.  Mexico
       4.  Honda Accord Coupe      D.  U.S.
       5.  Dodge Stealth           E.  Japan
       6.  Mercury Tracer          F.  Canada
       7.  Plymouth Voyager        G.  Australia
           (Short Wheelbase)
                                                                                                       

   ANSWERS: (1-B, 2-A, 3-G, 4-D, 5-E, 6-C, 7-F.)