Commodities:
   Cattle Futures Fall on Profit-Taking as Traders
   Worry About a Meat Glut Developing This Year
   ----
   By Scott Kilman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The April contract was particularly vulnerable to the
sell-off. It was approaching a life-of-contract high price
and heavy buying by commodity fund managers had swollen its
open interest by Friday to 57,577 contracts, a record for any
delivery month of the live cattle futures contract.
   Cattle prices have been firming for much of the year amid
signs that the nation's ranchers were turning more cautious
about expanding the size of their herds.
   The Agriculture Department said after the close of trading
Friday that 9% fewer young cattle were placed onto feedlots
in the seven major beef states for fattening in January
compared with January 1991. Feedlots prepare cattle for
slaughter.
   The feedlot population on Feb. 1 was 8% lower than a year
ago, the government reported.
   Despite the bullish tenor of the monthly report,
speculators are growing uneasy because several major
meatpackers have been reducing their slaughtering operations
since the survey was conducted. The January rally in cattle
prices caused widespread losses in the meatpacking industry,
which has responded by laying off workers and reducing
operating hours.
   The move by meatpackers is designed to allow the supply of
mature cattle to build on the feedlots, which could depress
prices.
   At the same time, some traders expect cattle prices to
come under pressure because the supply of competing meats
such as pork normally begins to rise at about this time of
the year, said Charles Levitt, an analyst at Shearson Lehman
Brothers Inc., Chicago.
   These hogs were born last fall. The supply of poultry is
also expected to expand this year.
   The hog contract for April delivery sank 1.45 cents a
pound to settle at 39.42 cents.
   In other commodity markets yesterday:
                                                                                                       

   ENERGY: Crude oil futures and product prices fell
significantly in moderate trading yesterday mainly on
technical factors. There was little news to drive the market
other than a report that a major pipeline that carries
petroleum products from refineries along the Gulf of Mexico
to markets along the East Coast canceled an entire delivery
cycle of no-lead gasoline because there was a surplus of the
winter-blend type of that gasoline already in the market. In
addition, sentiment remains bearish in the aftermath of the
meeting of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries
earlier this month. Market participants don't believe that
the group's ministers reduced production enough to soak up
excess supplies.
                                                                                                       

   COPPER: Futures prices rallied. Copper for March delivery
ended at $1.0215 a pound, up 1.05 cents. Richard Hirsch, vice
president of Sharps Pixley in New York, attributed the
strength to reports of scattered, short-term labor problems
at Codelco's El Teniente mine in Chile. Production was
unaffected, Mr. Hirsch said, but "when Chile sneezes, we all
get pneumonia." Buying based on technical factors also
contributed to the rise, he said.
                                                                                                       

   COFFEE: Futures prices continued to slide to
life-of-contract lows. After trading as low as 66.15 cents a
pound, coffee for May delivery ended at 66.80 cents, down
2.75 cents. Melissa Trout, an analyst at Cargill Investor
Services, said heavier-than-expected delivery notices
contributed to bearish sentiment. Producers also sold heavily
throughout the day, she added, and buyers remained
uninterested. Coffee fundamentals will remain bearish until
consumption increases, which isn't expected, or production
declines in a major way, she said. Prices will probably
continue to decline, she predicted.