Credit Markets:
   Most Bonds End Flat, but Short-Term Treasurys
   Fall on Worries About Supply, Fed Rate Policies
   ----
   By Constance Mitchell and Matt Rees
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
The Treasury's outstanding two-year notes, which were
issued last month, ended at a price of 99 7/32 to yield
5.285% compared with 99 11/32 to yield 5.22% on Wednesday.
The two-year notes to be sold Tuesday ended when-issued
trading at a yield of 5.365% and the five-year notes to be
sold Wednesday ended when-issued trading at 6.6975%.
   Meanwhile, the bond market's bellwether security, the
30-year Treasury bond finished 1/16 point higher, or less
then 63 cents for a bond with a $1,000 face amount. The
issue's yield, which moves in the opposite direction of its
price, ended unchanged at 7.90% The price of the benchmark
bond ended at 100 30/32.
   Michael Kastner, an options strategist at Societe Generale
Securities Corp., said that as prices declined on the short
end yesterday, money managers and pension funds created
positions in the options market that protect them against
potential losses.
   "It's starting to set in that we may not have one more
ease out of the Fed," says Mr. Kastner. These investors, he
said, purchased "put" options that give them the right to
sell securities in the future at current prices.
   Late in the session, the Federal Reserve released money
supply data for the latest week. M2, the aggregate most
closely watched by the Federal Reserve Board, rose a
surprisingly strong $9.5 billion. M3 gained $5.5 billion and
M1 was up $5.4 billion.
   M2 had been expected to rise $5.6 billion in the latest
week, according to a consensus of economists by Dow Jones
Capital Markets Report. M3 had been forecast to have risen
$6.7 billion in the week, while M1 was seen up $5.9 billion.
   M2 has grown strongly in recent weeks, but many analysts
had said it was too early to say the rises signaled an
economic recovery, preferring to ascribe them to seasonal
factors and other anomalies. Now analysts say perhaps M2
really is suggesting the economy may be back on the upswing.
   The money supply data "suggest the base of a recovery is
forming," says James Winder, a money market economist at
Merrill Lynch  Co. "Maybe this is a sign of better times in
the spring."
   Although the bond market didn't react significantly to the
surprise growth in M2, Mr. Winder says it's another factor
that makes short-term securities less attractive. "It's an
impetus to sell the short end," he says.
   Economic data released earlier in the session didn't
affect prices significantly either. The Labor Department said
initial claims for state unemployment insurance rose 18,000
in the week ended Feb. 8, a slightly higher increase than
expected.
   And the Commerce Department said the merchandise trade
balance posted a $5.94 billion deficit in December, compared
with a $4.17 billion deficit in November.
   The only major economic data due out today is the Federal
Reserve Bank of Philadelphia's survey of area business
activity, which will be released at 10 a.m. EST.
                                                                                                       

   Corporate  Junk Bonds
                                                                                                       

   About $500 million of new corporate debt was issued
yesterday, bringing total issuance to more than $3 billion so
far this week. That compares to the previous week, when $1.7
billion of new nonconvertible corporate debt was issued,
according to Securities Data Co.
   The biggest issuer yesterday was Greyhound Financial
Corp., a subsidiary of Dial Corp. Greyhound sold $175 million
of 10-year senior notes yielding 9.125%. "There's always a
risk that the market can move away from you and I have been
in the business long enough to see that happen," says Robert
Fitzsimmons, treasurer at Greyhound Financial. Yesterday
"just seemed like the right time" to offer debt. It was the
second time the company sold debt in less than two weeks.
Last week, Greyhound issued $125 million of seven-year notes
priced to yield 8.50%. Mr. Fitzsimmons says the company
doesn't have any plans to return to the market again soon.
   Certainly, "if the market looks okay, I think we will be
opportunistic {borrowers} but I think for the time being we
are just going to catch our breath," he said.
   Beside Greyhound Financial, other companies tapping the
market today included Public Service Electric  Gas Co.,
which offered $250 million of first and refunding mortgage
bonds in a two-part offering. The $100 million issue of
eight-year bonds was won in competitive bidding by a group
led by Salomon Brothers Inc. and was reoffered to investors
at a yield of 7.625%. Another $150 million of 30-year bonds
was won in competitive bidding by a group led by First Boston
Corp. These bonds were reoffered at a yield of 8.773%.
   Meanwhile, the Federal Home Loan Banks were also active in
the corporate market. The agency offered about $470 million
of new debt, on top of the $500 million of securities sold by
corporations.
   Elsewhere, in the high-yield market, junk bonds of
Chrysler Corp. advanced amid confirmation that the struggling
auto maker had raised $862.5 million by selling convertible
preferred stock to private investors. Although the shares
were offered to investors last week, Chrysler's bonds were
buoyed by the news and by a move by Standard  Poor's Corp.
to revise its outlook for the carmaker.
   SP said it has changed Chrysler's rating outlook to
stable from negative, a step that "reflects the sale of the
convertible preferred stock. "This transaction materially
improves Chrysler's near-term financial flexibility," SP
said.
   Chrysler's actively traded Auburn Hills Trust certificates
jumped 2 1/2 points to end at 106 1/2.
   In other trading, prices of most investment-grade
corporate debt, high-grade bonds ended little changed while
junk bonds gained about 1/4 point.
                                                                                                       

   Municipal Bonds
                                                                                                       

   Struggling under the pressure of the week's more than $3
billion of issuance, tax-exempts ended unchanged to 1/4 point
lower.
   Among outstanding issues, the Florida Board of Education's
6.70% issues of 2022 were off 1/4 at 99 3/4 to yield 6.69%.
   More than $590 million of debt was priced yesterday,
bringing the week's total to about $3.6 billion.
   In one of the largest deals, a Smith Barney, Harris Upham
 Co. group tentatively priced $360 million of Harris County,
Texas, toll road authority revenue refunding bonds to yield
from 5.70% in 1999 to 6.90% in 2017.
   The bonds are insured by AMBAC Indemnity Corp. and
Financial Guaranty Insurance Co. and rated triple-A by both
Moody's Investors Service Inc. and Standard  Poor's Corp.
                                                                                                       

   Mortgage  Asset-Backed Securities
                                                                                                       

   Prices of mortgage securities ended higher.
   The 7.5% mortgage securities issued by the three agencies
all advanced 7/32. Government National Mortgage Association
7.5% securities for March delivery were quoted at 96 26/32,
Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp. Gold 7.5% securities were at
98 31/32 and Federal National Mortgage Association 7.5%
securities were at 98 27/ 32.
   In primary market activity, no new real estate mortgage
investment conduit or asset-backed securities deals were
confirmed.
   Several Freddie Mac Remics are said to have been priced,
but not yet publicly detailed, and two mortgage-backed
offerings are expected from the Resolution Trust Corp., the
nation's thrift bailout agency.