Travelers Seeks
   To Raise Capital
   Through a Sale
   ---
   Filing With SEC Confirms
   Problems in Real Estate
   Continue to Hurt Insurer
   ----
   By Susan Pulliam
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
In the filing, the insurer listed a wide range of
alternatives, however, suggesting that it may be increasingly
anxious to complete a transaction. The company didn't say how
much it is seeking to raise, although industry experts have
said in the past the range was $500 million to $1 billion.
   The company needs to raise capital because heavy losses on
its $13 billion real estate portfolio in recent years have
hurt its financial condition. Travelers was one of the first
insurers to set aside large reserves for losses on real
estate, first in 1988 and again in 1990.
   Information in the filing indicates that the insurer has
not yet put its real estate problems behind it, however.
During 1991, foreclosures on real estate increased by $700
million to $1.8 billion, the company said. Meanwhile,
reserves for losses on real estate stood at $909 million at
year end.
   Travelers also said in the filing that troubled real
estate will continue to have a "negative impact" on its
financial position "the effects of which will emerge over a
number of years."
   The insurer said the alternatives it is pursuing for
capital are "offerings of securities to one or more strategic
or other investors, divestitures, combinations or investments
in Travelers or certain of its businesses or other capital
raising and expense reduction initiatives."
   The company cautioned, however, that "there can be no
assurances that these initiatives will be completed, or if
completed, what the terms or effects thereof would be."
   In recent months, Travelers is said to have contacted a
number of foreign investors in Japan and Europe about an
investment in the insurer. The insurer is not believed to
currently be in serious discussions currently with any
investor, however.
   The current attempt to raise capital follows several
actions taken since 1989 that have added $928 million to
statutory capital and surplus, the company said. Statutory
capital is the amount of capital that an insurer reports to
regulators. Last year, Travelers sold Dillon Read Inc., its
investment banking firm.
   In 1990, Travelers sold Travelers Mortgage Services Inc.,
an originator and servicer of home mortgage loans and
operator of a relocation and services business. During 1989,
Travelers sold two mutual fund companies, Keystone Group Inc.
and Keystone Custodian Funds Inc. Travelers also cut its
quarterly dividend on its common stock from 60 cents a share
to 40 cents a share.