Politics & Policy:
   Women's Anger About Hill-Thomas Hearings
   Has Brought Cash Into Female Political Causes
   ----
   By Jill Abramson
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Harriet Woods, president of the National Women's Political
Caucus, describes a "phenomenal response of women giving
money because of their anger and frustration over the
hearings." Other groups are reporting similar surges.
   The National Organization for Women, which usually
recruits 2,000 new members a month, signed up 13,000 new
members in October and November (memberships cost $25
annually). "I can't tie that to anything but the debacle of
the hearings," says NOW President Patricia Ireland.
Contributions to NOW's political-action committee also rose
substantially after the hearings.
   "It's been unbelievable," adds Ellen Malcolm, president of
Emily's List, a group that helps raise funds for Democratic
women candidates. (Emily is an acronym for Early Money Is
Like Yeast.) In the seven weeks following the hearings,
contributions to Emily's List rose 52%; the group, which
helped raise $1.5 million for 14 candidates in 1990, hopes to
double that performance in 1992.
   The most encouraging aspect of the fund-raising boom, Ms.
Malcolm and others say, is that many of the women who have
opened their checkbooks following the hearings haven't
previously been politically active. Last month, when Emily's
List hosted a brunch for women business leaders in Chicago,
Ms. Malcolm found that most of the attendees hadn't attended
a political gathering in decades.
   "They hadn't been involved in politics since the 1960s,"
explains Ms. Malcolm. "What they saw at the hearings made
them furious, and many of them said they just had to get
involved again." The direct-mail solicitation that Emily's
List sent out two weeks after the Hill-Thomas hearings has
already fetched nearly $300,000, with much of the money
coming from new donors.
   Eleanor Smeal, president of the Fund for the Feminist
Majority, says her group received an unsolicited $10,000
contribution after the hearings: "It was the largest
spontaneous outpouring I've ever seen."
   It's possible that the surge of giving could abate as
memories of the hearings fade. But other events, such as the
possibility of a Supreme Court ruling that further restricts
abortion, could easily ignite another wave of contributions.
"There is irony that we gain members and strength in adverse
circumstances and tough times," says NOW's Ms. Ireland.
   Roger Craver, a direct-mail specialist who helps raise
money for Planned Parenthood and NOW, says those groups have
also seen their direct-mail fund-raising increase at least
25% since the hearings. Mr. Craver resigned in protest as a
fund-raiser for the Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee
following Justice Thomas's confirmation, because he was
angered at Democratic senators who had voted for the Supreme
Court nominee.
   Mr. Craver agrees that the Hill-Thomas hearings served as
the catalyst for the surge of political giving by women. But
he adds that the professional women who identified with Anita
Hill were already emerging as a critical source of political
money.
   Last year, a survey the Craver firm commissioned from
pollster Peter Hart found that women under 45 were the most
active and generous donors to a variety of progressive
organizations. "The reform movements of the '60s and '70s
were largely underwritten by men," Mr. Craver says. "Now we
see Baby Boom women as the group most willing to put their
money on the line to get the social changes they want."
   Of course, not all the money after the Hill-Thomas
hearings came from women contributors. NOW's Ms. Ireland says
that, immediately after the hearings, "a man came walking in
to our offices and plunked down a $100 check and said, `I'm
sorry I haven't been before.'" NOW also quickly sold out of
its supply of "I believe Anita Hill" buttons and T-shirts.
"They made great Christmas gifts," says Ms. Ireland.
   The most obvious beneficiaries of the post-hearings money
and activism are women candidates. Money raised by Democratic
Rep. Barbara Boxer of California, a Craver client who is
running for the U.S. Senate this year, rose steeply after the
hearings; Rep. Boxer has used the all-male Senate Judiciary
Committee as a central issue in her campaign. Democrat Dianne
Feinstein, who ran unsuccessfully for California governor in
1990, is also using the paucity of women senators as a major
theme in her 1992 bid for California's other Senate seat.
According to one of Ms. Feinstein's campaign consultants, her
campaign was flooded with offers from women volunteering to
host fund-raising events for the candidate after the
hearings.
   In New York, fund-raising for Democrats Geraldine Ferarro
and Elizabeth Holtzman, who are both running for the Senate,
also picked up after the hearings. Meanwhile, some Republican
women in the state are trying to organize their own version
of Emily's List to channel money to women GOP candidates who
favor abortion rights. The hearings also provided a money
boost for Carol Moseley Braun, an Illinois Democrat who is
challenging Sen. Alan Dixon, who voted for Justice Thomas, in
the Democratic primary.
   To be sure, money doesn't always translate into votes.
With seven women running for the U.S. Senate, 1990 was
proclaimed the year of the woman candidate. But only one of
those women won -- incumbent Republican Sen. Nancy Kassebaum
of Kansas. Last month, Rep. Nancy Johnson of Connecticut, one
of the GOP's brightest stars, announced that she wouldn't
challenge Democratic incumbent Sen. Christopher Dodd this
year. And Janet Napolitano, one of Prof. Hill's legal
advisers, dropped plans to challenge Arizona Republican Sen.
John McCain because, among other things, she didn't have
enough money.
   But strong anti-incumbent sentiment among voters, the
record number of open House seats created by redistricting,
and better fund-raising will probably lure a large number of
women into congressional contests this year.
   "There's a lot of information out there that indicates
that the environment is perfect for women candidates," says
Linda Divall, a Republican pollster who worked for two women
Senate candidates who lost in 1990. "Women are double
outsiders. They are not seen as part of the Club."
   In Minnesota, women are already mobilizing for 1994 with a
campaign they have dubbed Minnesota Million. The effort is
aimed at raising $1 million to recruit a Democratic woman
candidate to challenge GOP Sen. Dave Durenberger. "When the
Clarence Thomas hearings came, people were outraged by the
all-male Judiciary Committee, and that gave us the incentive
to put things in place," says Minnesota Million co-chair Nina
Rothchild. The campaign, which hasn't even held its first
organizational meeting, already has pledges for $122,000.
"People have tracked us down," reports Ms. Rothchild. "We're
going great guns."
   ---
                      The Money Surge
                                                                                                       

   Women's political groups report that the Thomas-Hill
hearings have proved a major boon to their fund-raising:
                                                                                                       

 ORGANIZATION                            RESULT
                                                                                                       

 Emily's List                   $300,000 raised in a
                                direct-mail solication
                                out two weeks after the
                                hearings
                                                                                                       

 Fund for the                   30% increase
 Feminist Majority              in direct-mail
                                contributions

 National Organization          Direct-mail contributions up
 for Women                      25%-30%; threefold increase
                                in paid memberships
                                                                                                       

 National Women's               $85,000 raised from one
 Political Caucus               newspaper ad
                                                                                                       

 Women's Campaign Fund          50% increase in direct-mail
                                contributions