IBM to Unveil
   A More Flexible
   Way to Network
   ---
   Peer-to-Peer Approach Lets
   Any Computer in System
   Manage the Data Traffic
   ----
   By Paul B. Carroll
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The announcement will mark a reversal for IBM. It will
alter an approach known as SNA that allowed only a mainframe
to manage a broad data network. That method had been
criticized as self-serving, because it ensured demand for
IBM's hugely profitable mainframes. Many customers also said
the approach was too rigid. SNA required such a careful
layout of the network that even something as simple as adding
one terminal on someone's desktop could require significant
programming, to let all parts of the network know that a new
terminal had arrived.
   Instead, IBM will adopt a more democratic style known as
peer-to-peer networking. Any computer, large or small, will
be able to manage data traffic. The free-form approach will
also be flexible enough so that a network can manage itself
in more ways than is now possible -- recognizing
automatically, for instance, when a computer or terminal is
added.
   The change will eliminate much of the work that has made
computer networks so costly and so complicated that they are
prone to trouble, which should help the fast-growing
networking industry in its push to make computer networks as
ubiquitous as the telephone system. People in the industry
like to say that computer networks are where telephone
networks were in their infancy, when each call had to be
placed by an operator, and that the only way to achieve a
breakthrough is to automate the process.
   "IBM views this as the most significant networking
announcement they've made since the announcement of SNA" in
the mid-1970s, said Dixon Doll, general partner of Accel
Partners, a venture capital firm.
   It will probably be late this year or early next year
before the new networking software, known as APPN, becomes
available. That means it will be well into next year, at the
earliest, before big customers begin making the change in
significant numbers.
   Still, once the software becomes available, the change
should happen faster than is generally the case in the
computer industry, where change is expensive and sometimes
fraught with peril. Customers have been pushing for
standard-setter IBM to embrace the peer-to-peer approach --
which is used by many of its competitors and which IBM itself
has dabbled in, in personal computers and some minicomputers.
In addition, IBM has made the shift easy. Customers won't
have to buy new hardware, either in the back shop where the
mainframes live or on people's desktops. Customers also won't
have to change any software on the desktop.
   Part of the reason for the long lead time between now and
the availability of the software is that IBM is taking a new
approach to development that will get customers more heavily
involved than in the past. Computer companies typically send
software to some test sites toward the end of development, as
a way of testing for bugs. But IBM is going to ship its
current, early version of the software to a few big
customers, in return for extensive feedback on how the
product should be improved or redefined. The customer
involvement is also why it's not clear just when the software
will be available; IBM will have to work with those customers
to figure that out.
   "This product will not be available for general release
until customers say it's ready. Think about that," said Frank
Dzubeck, president of Communications Network Architects Inc.,
a consulting firm. "This is something entirely new."