Technology  Health:
   Colon Cancer Test Cuts Chance of Dying
   From the Disease Up to 70%, Study Says
   ----
   By Ron Winslow
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The new report offers the strongest answer yet by showing
that people who had the procedure were significantly less
likely to die of colon cancer than those who didn't have the
test. The study also reflects broader efforts aimed at
determining the cost effectiveness and lifesaving value of
screening tests for a variety of illnesses.
   "Our data suggest that sigmoidoscopy is among the most
efficacious of screening tests," says Joe V. Selby, assistant
director for health services research at Kaiser Permanente
Medical Care Program, Oakland, Calif. At least 50% of all
colon cancers arise in the portion of the colon that the
scopes reach, which means the test could cut the overall
death rate from the disease by at least 30%, says Dr. Selby,
lead author of the study in today's New England Journal of
Medicine.
   Colon and rectal, or colorectal, cancer kills about 60,000
U.S. residents each year, making it second to lung cancer
among cancer killers. About 156,000 new cases are reported
annually. At age 50, a person faces a 5% risk of developing
the disease by age 80 and a 2.5% risk of dying from it.
Because most colorectal cancers develop slowly, beginning as
polyps in the lower digestive tract, the disease is
considered curable with surgery when detected early.
   While the American Cancer Society and the National Cancer
Institute already recommend that people over 50 undergo
sigmoidoscopy screening every three to five years, others,
especially the federal Preventive Services Task Force, say
that evidence isn't sufficient to recommend the procedure in
people without symptoms. The lack of consensus, as well as
the discomfort of the exam, may explain why many people don't
undergo it. By some estimates, only 10% to 15% of people
without symptoms are tested even when their doctors recommend
it.
   The new study isn't a randomized clinical trial, which
researchers agree would provide the best data to judge the
tests. Steven Woolf, scientific adviser to the Preventive
Services Task Force, says he hasn't seen the report, but if
it meets the task force's research criteria, it could alter
the agency's position.
   Pap smears to test for cervical cancer and mammography
exams for breast cancer are among screens most authorities
agree have proven effective in reducing death rates. The
evidence isn't in yet for others. They include a new blood
test for prostate cancer called PSA, for prostate specific
antigen, though many urologists believe its use will improve
survival rates for prostate cancer patients.
   One concern among skeptics of the value of screening
people without symptoms is that tests will detect early-stage
disease in some people that left untreated wouldn't ever
affect their health. But once found, the case for treatment
would be compelling, exposing a person to unnecessary and
risky surgery.
   The National Cancer Institute plans a large randomized
trial involving 148,000 patients to test the efficacy of
preventive tests for prostate, colon and rectal, ovarian and
lung cancers. "It will prove the value of screening and that
it saves lives or it will prove the lack of value of
screening and save money," says Barnett Kramer, associate
director, early detection and community oncology program at
NCI. "Or in some cases, it will do both."
   In the current report, Dr. Selby and colleagues compared
261 cases of members of the Kaiser Permanente plan who had
died between 1971 and 1988 of colorectal cancer that could
have been detected by sigmoidoscopy with 868 other members
who didn't die of colon cancer and served as controls. Among
those in the "case" group, 9% had undergone sigmoidoscopy
within 10 years before diagnosis of the cancer vs. 24% of the
controls. The results translated into a 59% to 70% drop in
colorectal cancer deaths among those who had the test.