Enterprise:
   Blending Zen and the Art of Philanthropic Pastry Chefs
   ---
   Buddhist Monk Puts the Poor to Work,
   And Houses Them With the Profit
   ----
   By Udayan Gupta
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Bernard Glassman, a Brooklyn-born son of Jewish
immigrants, turned to Zen Buddhism in the late 1960s and
founded a Zen community in New York state a decade later. But
he came to the conclusion that meditation wasn't enough, and
he set out to lend a helping hand to people at the bottom of
the economic heap. The best way to do that, he decided, was
to become an entrepreneur.
   So, in 1983, the Zen community launched Greyston Bakery, a
maker of high-priced pies and cakes for wealthy consumers.
Today, Greyston is a profitable enterprise with $1.6 million
in sales that not only keeps the Zen followers busy but has
also provided jobs and training to more than 200 locals, many
of whom had been considered unemployable.
   And Mr. Glassman has used the business as a springboard to
orchestrate the renovation of a 19-unit apartment building
for the homeless that opened in 1991. This project, funded
with $4 million in federal and state grants, also includes a
youth center with counseling services and a day-care facility
for low-income Yonkers parents.
   Mr. Glassman has also started the not-for-profit Greyston
Family Inn, which trains and supports newly arrived workers.
   "I am trying to build a world that is all interconnected,"
says Mr. Glassman, a 52-year-old "sensei," or Zen teacher,
who once worked as a systems engineer at McDonnell Douglas
Corp.
   Many entrepreneurs say they want to help the poor and the
unemployed. But while most view such activity as a sideline,
Mr. Glassman considers it his mission. And, like a growing
number of people who started firms to achieve a social or
environmental goal, he has discovered that it takes more than
just a good heart to put lofty ideas into practice.
   For Mr. Glassman, Greyston is a Zen "mandala," a kind of
psychic force field of life-giving energies.
   He first got interested in Zen while a student of
aeronautical engineering at Brooklyn Polytechnic Institute.
While working at McDonnell Douglas, he studied under a Zen
master and became ordained as a Zen monk in 1970. (He says he
taught meditation classes to McDonnell Douglas executives
while he worked on flight plans to Mars.) In 1976 he quit his
job to become a full-time Zen teacher.
   Three years later he started the New York Zen Community at
Riverdale, an upscale section of the Bronx a few miles from
Yonkers. There, he formulated his ideas about
entrepreneurship.
   Historically, Zen communities in China were economically
self-sufficient, Mr. Glassman says. Even today in Japan,
monks meditate early in the morning and in the evening but
work at various occupations during the rest of the day. Mr.
Glassman felt that his Zen community also could benefit
spiritually from the reality of business. "I wanted that kind
of work practice in our lives," he says.
   At first his Riverdale community of a few dozen
practitioners undertook big catering jobs locally. But the
success of the San Francisco Zen Center and its Tassajara
Bakery inspired him to move from catering into the bakery
business. "I liked the idea that we could create a lot of
jobs," Mr. Glassman says.
   The Tassajara people provided Mr. Glassman and a few
colleagues some early bakery training, but unlike Tassajara,
Mr. Glassman didn't want to bake and sell bread "even though
it was the right Zen thing to do." He felt he couldn't
profitably compete with big bakery chains such as Pepperidge
Farm. So he opted for gourmet cakes and pies, which have high
profit margins, and chose to sell them through specialty
outlets.
   He also chose to build the bakery in Yonkers, which has
large working-class and minority populations and which
offered him a low-interest start-up loan, and to move his
community there. His success in putting together a work force
of poor whites, blacks and Hispanics carries symbolic weight
in a city plagued in recent years by racial tensions.
   Sales boomed as stores and restaurants such as Balducci's,
Macy's, and Sardi's eagerly stocked Greyston's gourmet foods.
But profitability eluded Greyston at first as start-up costs,
especially for job training, spun out of the control of the
early Zen managers.
   The Zen abbott blames himself for some of Greyston's
growing pains. "The bakery grew past my ability to manage,"
he says. So he looked for a professional capable of balancing
business interests and social goals. He hired Jef
Hoeberichts, an outside advisor to the firm, to run the
business. Last year, under Mr. Hoeberichts's tutelage,
Greyston was profitable for the first time.
   Mr. Hoeberichts has helped reduce the bakery's training
costs and introduced new ideas to the organization's middle
managers, who had little outside exposure. For example,
bonuses were instituted for employees who met production
targets.
   "Most entrepreneurs understand how to make a good product,
but they often don't understand how to make a profit," says
Ben Cohen, co-founder of Ben & Jerry's Homemade Inc., a
Waterbury, Vt., ice-cream maker that is a major Greyston
customer. "Bernie is proving that you can run a business,
sell products, have mark-ups and profits and still do it in a
humanitarian way."
   It was Mr. Hoeberichts who helped cement the relationship
with Ben & Jerry's. Greyston now supplies about 30,000 pounds
of brownies a month to the company, which is itself active in
social causes, for its Chocolate Fudge Brownie, a deal worth
$750,000 a year to the bakery. Greyston also makes Rainforest
Crunch cookies for Mr. Cohen's Community Products Inc.
   Mr. Glassman is ecstatic about Mr. Hoeberichts's record.
"It proves you can achieve self-sufficiency in the interplay
of for-profit and not-for-profit," he says. More important,
he sees rising profits as a way of attracting investors to
the bakery and funds for housing the homeless.
   Says Mr. Glassman, "The greater the profits, the more good
we can do."