OTC Focus:
   Index Rises for Third Consecutive Day,
   But Lack of News Prevents Big Moves
   ----
   By Dave Pettit
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
"There was no high-impact news that was going to send the
market either way and stocks just drifted a little higher,"
said Robert O'Toole Sr., head of Nasdaq institutional sales
at Lehman Brothers.
   Trading in a half dozen initial public offerings accounted
for about 7% of the National Market System volume. Most
active among the new issues was America Online, a Vienna,
Va., provider of computer-based consumer services. The stock
closed at 14 3/4 on volume of 3.2 million. The
two-million-share offering was made at a price of $11.50 a
share.
   Four other new issues closed above their offering prices.
Shares of Fred's Inc., a discount store operator, finished at
15 1/2, up from a $14.50-a-share pricing; Triconex, a maker
of fault-tolerant electronics, ended at 16 1/4, up from a $13
offering price; Lincare Holdings, a respiratory therapy
concern, settled at 14 1/2, above its pricing of $14 a share;
and USA Truck, a transport company, closed at 14 1/4, up from
a $12.50 pricing.
   Telios Pharmaceuticals, another IPO, closed at its
offering price of 8. The 2.5-million-share issue was priced
well below the originally expected range of $10 to $12 a
share. The San Diego concern develops therapeutics.
   Meanwhile, shares of several companies tumbled after
release of disappointing earnings. Among them, Lindsay
Manufacturing sagged 2 to 35 1/2 after the irrigation
equipment and manufacturing services concern posted net
income of 37 cents a share for its second quarter ended Feb.
29, down from the 46 cents a share in the year-earlier
quarter. Revenue fell to $20.2 million from $24.9 million.
   Herman Miller shares lost 7/8 to 18 7/8. The company
recorded third-quarter net income of 17 cents a share,
reversing a year-earlier loss of 58 cents a share but falling
short of expectations. Two analysts surveyed by First Call
had expected the company to earn about 23 cents a share.
   Grist Mill dropped 2 1/8 to 12 despite its report that net
income for the third quarter ended Feb. 29 rose to 12 cents a
share, from seven cents a share a year earlier. The consensus
estimate for the latest quarter was for net income of 13
cents a share, according to Zacks Investment Research.
   Overall, though, the market shrugged off the individual
earnings disappointments as investors looked forward to
improved corporate profits as the economy recovers this year.
James Solloway, director of research at Argus Research, said
stock prices generally should continue to gain through next
month when most first-quarter earnings reports will be
released.
   Mr. Solloway said first-quarter profits should look
encouraging to investors "because (the results) are going to
be compared against a first quarter of 1991 that was
absolutely horrendous," as the U.S. economy was in the depths
of the recession.
   Microsoft closed with a gain of 1 1/8 to 127 1/2, after
trading as high as 130 1/4. Soundview Financial analyst John
C. Maxwell III repeated a "buy" recommendation on the stock.
He said he now expects the software developer to sell about
3.5 million copies of its Windows operating system software
in the fourth quarter ending in June. He had been forcasting
sales of 2.3 million copies. Microsoft will begin shipping an
enhanced version of the software next month.
   Much of Microsoft's early gains, though, disappeared late
in the day after the company disclosed that Apple Computer
had increased the size of its damages claim in a patent
infringement suit against Microsoft and Big Board-listed
Hewlett Packard. Microsoft said Apple now seeks $5.6 billion,
up from a previous $4.4 billion. Apple shares eased 3/4 to
63.