Global View:
   Buchanan Is Challenging the `Old World Order'
   ----
   By George Melloan
U.S. elections usually turn on domestic issues, not
foreign affairs, and this one was no exception. Exit polls
showed, for example, that Mr. Bush's performance in the Gulf
War was a significant issue with only 7% of the voters. To
quote Ronald Reagan, all elections are, in essence, local
elections. The president and the senators from Iowa and
Nebraska suffered because they could not dissociate
themselves from the Beltway. Both Mr. Tsongas and Mr.
Buchanan, the moral victor on the Republican side even though
he came in a distant second to Mr. Bush, exploited public
dissatisfaction with the federal government. Both are hardly
strangers to the nation's capital, but they ran as
"outsiders."
   The Buchanan campaign drilled away at the president's
broken "read-my-lips" pledge not to raise taxes and at the
Democratic Congress's propensity to extend the federal
government's tentacles into every nook and cranny of American
society. Mr. Tsongas attacked protectionism and the
class-warfare appeals that are the stock in trade of
congressional Democrats.
   But even though it is doubtful that Mr. Buchanan's
anti-internationalism had much resonance with New Hampshire
voters, it comes at a time when all of the world's postwar
international institutions are subject to review, simply
because the world itself is undergoing dramatic change. Mr.
Buchanan is not so much attacking George Bush's "New World
Order" -- in part because it is so vaguely defined that there
is nothing much to attack -- as he is confronting the "Old
World Order," a set of U.S. foreign policies that have been
little altered by either Democratic or Republican
administrations since World War II.
   Now that a formidable enemy -- the Soviet Union -- has
crumbled, Mr. Buchanan is questioning, both explicitly and
implicitly, the worth of the elaborate arrangements made by
the U.S. and its allies after World War II to counter Soviet
expansionism. Those arrangements include NATO and the
U.S.-Japan security treaty, of course. But if the terms Mr.
Buchanan uses have any meaning, they also encompass such
global entities as the International Monetary Fund, the World
Bank and its related regional development banks, the U.S.
Agency for International Development and a host of lesser
institutions.
   Mr. Buchanan's fundamental position emerged during the New
Hampshire campaign when a foreign journalist asked him to
reassure the outside world that he is not an isolationist. He
was quoted in the Washington Post as responding: "This
campaign is not about the outside world. It's about the U.S.
of A. And I'll tell you something: The day when you could get
income transfers from the working and middle class people of
the United States to send foreign regimes that can't balance
their budgets will be coming to an end when Pat Buchanan is
elected President."
   That is a far more profound statement, as it applies to
U.S. foreign policy, than it might sound at first glance, if
one assumes that Mr. Buchanan means it seriously. Mr.
Buchanan is suggesting that he would dismantle the U.S.
"empire" for much the same economic reasons that brought
about the collapse of the Soviet empire. He is saying, in
effect, that the empire -- or more appropriately the Pax
Americana -- is too expensive for U.S. taxpayers to support.
   This argument always has some resonance in U.S. politics,
with conservatives who distrust the multilateral banks and
aid agencies and with liberals who want to dismantle the U.S.
defense establishment and spend the savings on new
social-welfare schemes. But it is doubtful that either group
is aroused enough to give Mr. Buchanan's campaign an added
boost beyond what he has already achieved in his focus on
domestic issues. Americans are frustrated by Mr. Bush's
incapacity to understand why Reaganomics succeeded, but that
doesn't mean they are turning isolationist. Quite the
contrary, Americans were elated over the U.S. military
success in the Gulf and now widely support helping the former
Soviet republics join the world political and economic order.
   Mr. Buchanan, of course, scores some points when he
challenges the efficacy of the multilateral banks and aid
organizations. Because of natural bureaucratic instincts for
empire building, they often have been indiscriminate in their
financing, propping up corrupt, incompetent or socialist
regimes that in a better world would have been allowed to
self-destruct, giving way to more responsible, free-market
leadership. Some U.S. administrations, this one included,
have not exercised sufficient control over those tendencies,
although they have had the power to do so. These institutions
often have given even their good "clients" bad economic
advice, although the quality of advice improved significantly
during the Reagan-Thatcher era.
   But the fundamental question is not whether the elaborate
postwar system of Western-supported global institutions and
alliances is above reproach. Certainly it has many
imperfections. The real question is whether the political
function of these institutions -- in essence the leverage
they give to the U.S. and its allies in exerting global
influence and maintaining global peace -- is worth what they
cost. That issue, plus the question of how they should be
modified to cope with the problems of a radically changed
world, is worth debate.
   From the readings in New Hampshire, that debate will not
be crucial in deciding who becomes the next U.S. president.
But it will play out in the U.S. Congress and other Western
parliaments, in the councils of NATO, the IMF et al., in the
diplomacy of foreign ministers, finance ministers and chiefs
of state. Mr. Buchanan's barroom-style rhetoric doesn't
contribute much, but at least he has put the issue on the
U.S. political agenda.