What's News --
   World-Wide
The proposals sidestepped two critical issues: how to fund
the expensive tax breaks, and how to control rising health
care costs.
   ---
   The Bush administration has sent Congress a new
notification that it will use CIA contingency funds to pursue
covert activities aimed at ousting Iraq's Hussein. At the
same time, CIA Director Gates is traveling in the Mideast on
an inaugural tour of the region in which he is discussing
efforts to oust Hussein with Arab allies of the U.S.
   ---
   Russia's Yeltsin warned the West that time was running out
to assist the former Soviet republic, adding that
dictatorship loomed if his economic reform program failed.
"The delay in the international community's aid to Russia is
becoming dangerous," Yeltsin declared in Paris.
   ---
   Clinton dismissed questions about his draft record as
"recycled Republican charges." But a Democratic rival for
president, Kerrey, signaled he would use the issue against
the Arkansas governor. Clinton said an account of his draft
record was similar to charges made in 1978, saying, "They
were false then, and they are false now."
   ---
   A military transport plane plunged to the ground in
Evansville, Ind., smashing into a motel and restaurant and
killing 16 people. At least 19 others were injured. Burning
fuel was sprayed hundreds of feet, sending huge flames into
the air. The Air National Guard plane was on a pilot
proficiency training mission when it crashed, officials said.
   ---
   San Diego officials rushed to repair a ruptured pipe that
is spilling 180 million gallons of partially treated sewage
into the ocean daily, but the leak is expected to persist for
six to eight weeks. California Gov. Wilson declared a state
of emergency in response to the spill, which began Sunday.
   ---
   Scientists located a probable source within brain cells
for a substance thought to trigger Alzheimer's disease. The
finding suggests a particular place in brain cells on which
to focus efforts to develop drugs for the disease.
   ---
   Croatian leader Tudjman accepted a plan to deploy 10,000
U.N. troops in Yugoslavia, leaving the leader of the
Serb-inhabited Krajina region of Croatia, Milan Babic, as the
only official who hasn't accepted the plan, U.N. envoy Vance
told reporters. Vance also voiced opposition to any further
recognition of breakaway Yugoslav republics.
   ---
   Albert Reynolds was elected leader of Ireland's ruling
Fianna Fail Party, putting him in line to become prime
minister next week. Reynolds, an ex-finance minister and
founder of a pet food company, succeeds Prime Minister
Haughey, who was forced to quit following allegations he lied
about his role in wiretapping journalists' phones.
   ---
   Chancellor Kohl said he will seek an amendment to
Germany's Constitution allowing troops to participate in U.N.
peace efforts. "We have the obligation to assume more
responsibility on an international scale," he explained.
   ---
   Baltic leaders appealed to Quayle for U.S. help in getting
130,000 former Soviet troops out of their newly independent
republics. Officials in Estonia and Latvia raised the issue
during the first day of the vice president's two-day tour of
the Baltics. He is to meet with Lithuanian leaders today.
   ---
   A group of women and doctors sued the FDA, alleging that
the agency's moratorium on silicone breast implants is
illegal and unconstitutional. The group charged that FDA
chief Kessler violated the right to due process and
circumvented the agency's own medical device-approval
procedures.
   ---
   Israel owes its good international credit rating to U.S.
subsidies, Secretary of State Baker said in laying out a hard
line on $10 billion in requested loan guarantees. And the
head of the Senate foreign aid panel said no new loans will
be guaranteed without a provision that they not be used to
expand Jewish settlements in occupied lands.
   ---
   A car bomb killed five people and wounded seven in central
Madrid, and Spanish officials blamed Basque separatists for
the blast. The bombing came several days after reports that
the separatist group ETA was preparing to halt its attacks
for several months in hope of promoting negotiations with the
government.
   ---
   The U.S. recorded its lowest infant mortality rate ever,
but black babies still die at more than twice the rate of
whites, and the nation trails much of the developed world,
according to federal researchers. The rate for 1989, the most
recent year for which statistics are available, was 9.8
deaths by age one for every 1,000 live births.
   ---
   Muslim fundamentalists battled the Algerian army and
police for the third day in the eastern town of Batna, where
authorities said 12 people have been killed since Tuesday.
Meanwhile, Algeria's leaders reportedly canceled a national
Islamic march that was scheduled for next Friday.