Marketing  Media -- Advertising:
   Irish-Americans Criticize Beer Ads
   For Reinforcing Bad Stereotypes
   ----
   By Joanne Lipman
The groups are especially furious over a Budweiser spot
starring Kathy Ireland, the bikini-clad model who graces the
cover of Sports Illustrated's new swimsuit edition. Adolph
Coors, too, gets its share of complaints for the way it is
promoting its Killian's Irish Red brand with contests and
other gimmicks; Irish Red drinkers will be offered such
freebies as leprechaun ears and shamrock hats.
   Even Miller Brewing comes in for criticism for a series of
St. Patrick's Day ads that warn against drinking and driving.
The Philip Morris unit's newspaper ads, for example, picture
keys attached to a green shamrock keychain with the words, "A
key thing to remember this St. Patrick's Day. Think When You
Drink." Sober enough -- but critics say the ads unfairly
associate drunken driving with the Irish.
   The beer companies say they've heard no complaints. And
some Irish-American ad executives say their outraged brethren
are a little too sensitive. "Lighten up]" scoffs Sean
Fitzpatrick, vice chairman of Interpublic Group's
McCann-Erickson. As for himself, Mr. Fitzpatrick confides, "I
never go to an Irish bar to drink on St. Patrick's Day --
because I don't like to drink with amateurs."
   But the National Ethnic Coalition of Organizations insists
the ads are no laughing matter. Last week it fired off a
letter to Anheuser-Busch's president, August A. Busch III,
demanding that the company pull the Kathy Ireland spot. "We
believe strongly that it is exploitative marketing and is
tantamount to an ethnic slur when drinking and alcohol are
equated with the celebration of the patron saint of Ireland,"
fumed William Fugazy, travel-company executive and chairman
of the group, which represents 66 ethnic organizations.
   "We have the same problems as the Italians with
{stereotypes of} mafia ties and the Polish with jokes," Mr.
Fugazy, who is partly of Irish heritage, said in an
interview. An Anheuser-Busch spokesman said the company
hadn't seen the letter and couldn't comment on it.
   The Budweiser spot follows Ms. Ireland -- unnamed and
fully clothed -- through a crowded neighborhood bar, all the
while punning on the swimsuit model's name by suggesting Bud
is the official beer of Ireland. The St. Patrick's Day
campaign marks an ironic twist for Budweiser, the No. 1
selling beer: It comes as brand manager August A. Busch IV is
proudly touting his effort to cut down on the use of sexy
babes and assorted bimbos to sell brews in advertising.
   The Irish-American groups, in any case, have already
succeeded in pressuring other kinds of marketers to drop
hard-drinking stereotypes. They organized protests against
greeting-card companies in the past few years, and take
credit for persuading them to abandon some of the most
tasteless St. Patrick's Day cards. Between 40 million and 70
million Americans have some Irish heritage, and "they're
saying all these people are drinkers? That's not the case
whatsoever," says John Finucane, president of the American
Irish Political Education Committee.
   Marketers probably wouldn't dream of touting such
stereotypes in Ireland itself, where St. Patrick's Day is a
religious holiday. "It tends to be a very sober day," notes
Ray O'Hanlon, national editor of the New York-based Irish
Echo, the country's largest Irish-American weekly. "The pubs
close earlier than usual."
   ---
   Bush Woos Admen
                                                                                                       

   In the wake of last week's Super Tuesday primaries,
several prominent ad executives were approached to work on
President Bush's re-election campaign.
   McCann-Erickson's Sean Fitzpatrick and Robert Gardner,
president of Gardner Advertising in San Francisco, both
confirmed that they had been approached by Bush aides after
the Tuesday primaries. Charlotte Beers, the outgoing chief
executive officer of Chicago's Tatham RSCG, also was
contacted last week, industry executives said. Earlier,
Martin Puris, chief executive officer of Ammirati  Puris,
had been approached as well.
   "We're talking. We haven't finalized specific roles," Mr.
Gardner said Friday. "I am very seriously considering it,"
added Mr. Fitzpatrick. "I consider it the greatest honor of
my advertising life."
   ---
   Master the Questions
                                                                                                       

   Agencies large and small got questionnaires for MasterCard
International's estimated $60 million account review, the
first phase of what is expected to be a lengthy and fierce
competition.
   Among those contacted, industry executives said, were
Chicago agencies Bayer Bess Vanderwarker and WPP Group's J.
Walter Thompson; San Francisco agencies Goodby, Berlin 
Silverstein and Hal Riney  Partners; McElligott, Wright,
Morrison, White, Minneapolis; and New York agencies Grey
Advertising; Ammirati  Puris; Messner, Vetere, Berger,
Carey, Schmetterer and TBWA Advertising. Also, incumbent
agency Lintas, a unit of Interpublic Group, is participating.
   ---
   Ad Notes. . . .
                                                                                                       

   YARDLEY AGENCY: Maybelline Inc., Memphis, Tenn., is
looking for an ad agency for its Yardley toiletries and
skin-care line, a new account that industry and company
executives estimate at $5 million to $10 million. Maybelline
is a unit of Wasserstein Perella  Co.
                                                                                                       

   MAIDENFORM: Lingerie maker Maidenform Inc. tapped WPP
Group's Ogilvy  Mather for its estimated $6 million,
high-visibility account. The account went into review after
incumbent agency Levine, Huntley, Vick  Beaver was absorbed
into Grey Advertising. Ogilvy said it is talking about a
possible job with Rochelle Klein, Levine Huntley's former
creative director.

   MCCAFFREY DISMISSALS: McCaffrey  McCall fired as many as
50 employees, industry executives said, after losing its
largest client, Mercedes-Benz. The agency earlier dimissed
eight people after losing its other big client, Bacardi
Imports. The firings come just as the agency hired former Leo
Burnett executive vice president Dan Reid to be president and
chief operating officer, succeeding William Vieser, now a
deputy chairman.
                                                                                                       

   BEERS IN TALKS: Charlotte Beers, outgoing chief executive
officer of Tatham RSCG, is being courted by both WPP Group
and Saatchi  Saatchi Co., executives said. None of the
parties involved would comment, but executives said WPP was
considering her for posts at either its Ogilvy  Mather or J.
Walter Thompson units, while Saatchi was considering her for
a role at Backer Spielvogel Bates.
                                                                                                       

   FINALISTS: The review for the estimated $6 million Shady
Brook Farms account was narrowed to five New York agencies:
Ammirati  Puris; Ketchum Communications; McCabe  Co.;
Messner, Vetere, Berger, Carey, Schmetterer; and Omnicom
Group's DDB Needham. Incumbent agency Warwick, Baker  Fiore
isn't participating. Shady Brook Farms turkey products are
marketed by Rocco Enterprises, Harrisonburg, Va.
                                                                                                       

   ACCOUNT: E.T. Browne Co., Englewood Cliffs, N.J., assigned
advertising for Palmers Cocoa Butter to New York agency
MacNamara, Klein  Solin, which bested agencies Deutsch;
Korey, Kay  Partners; and Sherwood  Schneider Advertising.