Fed Assumes Bigger Share of U.S. Debt
   ---
   Many Economists Fear Shift
   Will Spark Higher Inflation
   ----
   By Alfred L. Malabre Jr.
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The Fed's share of the mounting debt pile remains small --
less than 3% of a total that's fast approaching $12 trillion.
But this share has grown markedly since 1990, in contrast to
a previous pattern of persistent shrinkage. Fed holdings of
U.S. government securities have risen more than 33% in less
than two years; in the same period, total debt rose less than
10% and federal debt about 20%.
   "The Fed's recent willingness to hold more of the debt
signifies a sea change," says Edward S. Hyman, president of
ISI Group Inc. He views the change as "a bad development"
since it threatens ultimately to cause steeper price
increases. But he also stresses that the lead times between
Fed moves to hold more debt and increased inflation tend to
be long.
   "It's probably not too late for the Fed to change course
and avert a new inflationary surge," he says.
   For now, "by taking on more of the total debt itself, the
Fed is allowing more room in the credit markets for private
borrowers," says Robert H. Parks, an economic consultant in
New York. Otherwise, interest rates would tend to be higher
and less affordable, he says, adding, "The Fed in effect is
financing Treasury borrowing with newly created money."
   To increase its debt holdings, the Fed may buy government
securities directly from the Treasury, but more typically it
does so in the open market. Bank reserves are created in the
process, since the Fed can "pay" simply by crediting the
amount of its purchases to the account of the bank involved
in the transaction. As a result, money is born.
   Economists call the process debt monetization. Without it,
rising federal deficits tend merely to shuffle spending to
the government sector from the private sector, rather than
stimulate the economy as a whole.
   For all the short-term benefits, a rising money supply, if
it goes on long enough and is sharp enough, can eventually
outstrip the available supply of goods and services and so
fuel inflation. The government's most "potent financing
technique" is for the Fed "to monetize the Treasury's debt by
purchasing it," says William C. Melton, a former Fed official
who now serves as chief economist of IDS Financial Services
Inc.
   The recent shift in the Fed's overall debt holdings, as
opposed to how much of the total is in short-term or
long-term securities, has received relatively little notice.
Efforts to assess Fed policy have focused mainly on such
familiar gauges as the federal funds rate, which banks charge
one another on short-term loans, and on aggregates that gauge
the money supply.
   By and large, these well-publicized indicators suggest an
effort by the Fed to loosen the monetary reins. But this
endeavor has occasionally seemed halting and marked by
caution. The federal funds rate, near 4%, is lower than three
months ago, but slightly higher than a few weeks ago. M1, a
relatively narrow measure of the money supply, has climbed
briskly for many months. But the broader M2, M3 and M4
aggregates have not. Adjusted for inflation, all three are
lower now than three years ago.
   There's no such ambivalence in the Fed's recent assumption
of more of the debt. In the first quarter of 1990, Fed
holdings of U.S. government securities amounted to just over
$233.5 billion. The total has been rising sharply ever since,
surpassing $312 billion in the final quarter of 1991.
   As the chart indicates, substantial time often may elapse
between shifts in the Fed's willingness to assume debt and
developments on the price front. (see accompanying
illustration -- WSJ March 17, 1992) The Fed monetized a
rising portion of debt from the early 1960s until nearly the
end of the decade, and the trend continued at a slower, more
erratic pace until 1976. Yet, inflation remained relatively
dormant until the latter half of the 1960s.
   A footnote: Unlike the present situation, the Fed's
monetizing through the 1960s can hardly be viewed as an
effort to relieve credit markets overburdened by federal
deficits. Through most of the period, the federal budget was
in or close to balance.
   The pattern from 1976 to 1990 also shows a long lag
between shifts in the Fed's debt share and price
developments. The Fed's share of debt fell substantially, a
process that economists call demonetization and regard as
disinflationary, just as monetization is deemed inflationary.
But inflation intensified sharply from 1978 to 1980, well
after the Fed's share of debt had begun to fall. As
demonetizing continued, inflation finally did abate.
   Most economists look for the Fed to adopt a more
restrictive policy once the recovery gains strength and the
presidential election is over. Some believe that this policy
shift may already be at hand. But the hazard is that this
could squeeze hardpressed private borrowers, especially with
the federal budget deficit near $400 billion and the economy
reviving. The upshot could be appreciably higher interest
rates and, once again, a stalled recovery or a new recession.
   "The Fed will find it very hard to reverse its recent
policy of debt monetization," says Lacy H. Hunt, chief
economist in New York for Hongkong Bank Group. He warns that
any return to debt demonetization would be "catastrophic" for
the recovery, which he believes finally got under way in
February.
   Some economists disagree with such assessments and caution
that the inflationary die is already cast, whatever the Fed
decides to do in coming months."The Fed has already passed
the flash point for inflation," claims H. Erich Heinemann,
chief economist of Ladenburg, Thalmann  Co.