International:
   Berlin Fashion Plan Is Clad in Symbolism
   ----
   By Frederick Kempe
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
A Berlin government council awarded the project this week
to a consortium made up of Harel and a German-French group
that includes French banker David Rothschild, a property
development subsidiary of Deutsche Bank and the construction
company Societe Generale d'Entreprises, itself a subsidiary
of the French giant Cie. Generale des Eaux. Harel  Partners
is a private company run by a 42-year-old millionaire, Ezra
Harel. His company, D.E.H. Holdings of New York, controls
some 20 companies with annual sales of more than $1 billion.
   The Berlin Senate gave the consortium until the end of
June to put together financing, building and business plans.
"This is an emotional and not just an economic investment,"
said Mr. Harel, speaking by telephone from Israel, where his
companies are involved in projects that include building
apartments and converting Boeing Co. 747s into cargo planes
in a venture with American Express Co. "Jerusalem Strasse is
the name of the street in front of the land parcel. To find
Jerusalem in Berlin -- that's what drew me to the project."
   What drew the German-French group was Berlin itself. The
fall of the Berlin Wall set off a land rush for central city
property that has tripled top real estate prices in the past
two years. The consortium has agreed to pay 12,000 marks per
square meter.
   "The top prices have already climbed above those in Paris,
but all the world is expecting a lot out of Berlin," said
Gianfranco Aquaviva, an entrepreneur whose company, Aquaviva
 Partners, took the negotiating lead for the German-French
group. "A reasonable approach should say stop at these
prices. But the amounts are being paid not because of
speculation but rather out of anticipation. Berlin is
expected not only to become the German capital but also the
most important metropolis in Europe. No other city is capable
of playing such a central role in East-West relations."
   Still, many potential investors complain that an
overwhelmed city bureaucracy and legal uncertainties have
slowed decision making, forcing companies to carry millions
in costs while they seek approvals. Yet other major real
estate markets are depressed and overbuilt, so developers
still flock to Berlin. And banks have been willing to provide
as much as 100% financing, often on a non-recourse basis (the
property is collateral enough).
   Although Harel  Partners hadn't any track record with
German lenders, Mr. Harel came to Berlin with credentials
that Germany officials couldn't ignore. He carried a letter
of support from the World Jewish Congress and from U.S.
Jewish legislators, Sen. Frank Lautenberg of New Jersey and
Rep. James Scheuer of New York, both Democrats. The issue of
Jewish property ownership is a touchy one in Berlin, where
more than a third of the property that became available for
development after the Berlin Wall fell belonged to Jews
before the Holocaust.
   "We convinced them it would be symbolically good for
Germany to re-establish not just Jewish rights to a piece of
land but to re-establish an industry that was largely Jewish
and remains so today," said Albert Nissim, a former American
Express vice president who is president of Harel  Partners.
"Jews put Germany on the map in the world of fashion."
   Mr. Harel and Mr. Nissim successfully lobbied Finance
Minister Theo Waigel and others to block alternative plans
for Hausvogteiplatz, the name by which the property is known.
The trust agency, known as the Treuhandanstalt, dropped plans
to locate a financial district on the city center property.
Mr. Harel also convinced Mr. Waigel to withdraw consideration
of the property for government offices. That left Mr. Harel's
ambitious project, which will have more than a million square
feet. "That's almost as large as the New York Coliseum area,"
said Mr. Nissim.
   But while it was Harel  Partners that kept the project
alive, the Berlin Senate wouldn't give it the project alone,
even though it had brought along the Naktash brothers of the
Jordache jeans company. "We wanted this to be an
international fashion center with a broader base," said one
official. The official also said Jordache, which Mr. Nissim
said isn't currently part of the project, wasn't considered
"haute couture" enough.
   So Berlin turned to Mr. Aquaviva's German-French group.
Mr. Aquaviva said his original concept was heavily influenced
by the German fashion designer Karl Lagerfeld. But he said
Mr. Lagerfeld hasn't decided what role, if any, he will play.
   Mr. Aquaviva said his group also wants to create a design
school and a series of international fashion contests that
would put Berlin on the fashion map with Paris and Milan.
Part of the aim, he said, would be to promote talented young
designers, particularly from the former Soviet bloc, who
perhaps could be given facilities once they had won one of
the center's competitions.
   The current plan calls for Aquaviva  Partners to assume
15% of the project. Other 15% shares will be taken by Groupe
Rothschild Francarep and Societe Generale d'Entreprises.
Quillery S.A., another French construction company that is a
subsidiary of the giant Societe Auxiliaire d'Entreprises,
will take 5%. The likely managers and developers of the
project, which are subsidiaries of Deutsche Bank and Otto
Versand G.m.b.H., have taken a 20% holding in the consortium.
   Despite Mr. Rothschild's own Jewish heritage, members of
the German-French group are uneasy that Mr. Harel may
emphasize the Jewish history too much. Mr. Aquaviva said he
will resist any move to establish a museum or exhibit that
too blatantly reminds Germans of the treatment of Jews in
World War II.
   "My own investigations have shown {the area} was not only
a Jewish garment district but was also the first major
settlement of Jews allowed within European city walls, in
about the year 1000," said Mr. Aquaviva. "I think it would be
a great thing to bring the fashion world, which is very
Jewish in nature, back to Berlin. But I think to be too
aggressive about this would be a mistake. We must live
together now. Maybe in a church or a synagogue you can mix
life and death in this way, but not in the middle of a center
where people should come to create."
   After months of often bitter fights between the Harel
group and Mr. Aquaviva for control of the project, both
parties are playing down their differences.
   Mr. Harel once complained loudly that his company had done
all the political work of clearing the way for the project,
only to be relegated a minority position. Now, he says, "This
project is too important to argue about. If this were just a
piece of property, I wouldn't care so much. But it is much
more."