High-Tech Home Banking to Link EC
   ---
   Belgian Bank Signs On Clients
   In Several Countries
   ----
   By Nicholas Bray
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Part of the reason is cost; banks around the world see
home banking as a way of reducing staff and office costs. In
addition, Mr. Peeters says, home banking offers a way around
some of the regulatory and other constraints likely to hamper
cross-border banking in Europe for the foreseeable future,
despite the planned removal of most trade barriers in the
European Community next Jan. 1.
   "Some of the new distribution technologies now being
developed for banking services are more appropriate for
transborder developments than the old-fashioned branch
network," he says. With home banking, a client in another
country banking with BBL in Belgium would be "a client of the
Belgian branch, not of a branch on the other side of the
border."
   As banks in Europe gear up for the EC's single market,
their strategies vary widely. Some of the biggest, like
Germany's Deutsche Bank and France's Credit Lyonnais, have
gone on an international acquisitions binge. Both in recent
years have bought banks in other European countries, giving
them ready-made networks of branches. Currently, Credit
Lyonnais is studying yet another possible acquisition: a 30%
stake in Germany's BFG Bank.
   Other banks, like Britain's Barclays PLC, are using
existing subsidiaries to expand in some markets and building
up their operations through acquisitions elsewhere. Still
others are forging cross-border alliances. France's Banque
Nationale de Paris and Germany's Dresdner Bank, for example,
are expected soon to announce the terms of a pact under which
each is expected to take 10% of the other's capital as part
of wide-ranging cooperation outside their home territories.
   The drive isn't confined to European institutions:
Citicorp's Citibank unit, for example, is re-branding
existing subsidiaries in Germany, Belgium, France, Spain and
Greece with a unified Citibank logo and looking for possible
acquisitions in Britain. Using a computer system now being
installed, its customers in any of these countries soon will
be able to carry out a multiplicity of cross-border banking
operations.
   In Belgium, BBL's go-it-alone strategy, which focuses on
home banking, at first glance, seems somewhat different.
Smarting from recent difficulties at subsidiaries in France
and Britain, it has pulled in its horns on major new ventures
abroad. For the moment, Mr. Peeters says, it has no
acquisition plans under consideration.
   Yet, Mr. Peeters' plans for BBL are another variation on a
world-wide trend. In an increasingly competitive market,
banks that are big today in a local, regional or even
national context are being forced to hunt for ways to protect
themselves from becoming small and vulnerable tomorrow. In
Europe, much of the impetus has come from the imminence of a
unified European banking market. But the challenges facing
the banking industry are the same, broadly speaking, for
banks from Hong Kong, to Hamburg, to Honolulu.
   With increasing deregulation, says a Citibank official,
"there's going to be a much greater cross-border flow of
retail products. Many banks that have built a lot of bricks
and mortar in the form of traditional branch networks will
find that their margins tend to thin. You've got to think of
new ways of doing business. The old style of
country-fortress, with two or three banks dominating a
nation's domestic market, is on the way out."
   Strategic planning, nonetheless, is complicated by the
prospect that national banking markets are likely to remain
fairly distinct for the foreseeable future. Even in Europe,
independently of a single market, cultural barriers are
likely to continue for some time yet to stand in the way of
cross-border mergers between banks.
   Banks that do venture into a neighboring EC state often
find things more complex than they expected. Mountains of red
tape are likely to continue to hamper many banks'
international expansion. Though a single market will mean
more deregulation, it won't mean an immediate end to legal
differences and to the current plethora of national
regulatory controls. True, banks from one EC country will be
free from 1993 on, to set up in any other EC state. But they
still will be subject to dual reporting requirements -- to
their own central bank and to the central bank of the
countries where they do business.
   Because of differences in the information asked for, the
result is likely to be a headache, at least until Europe has
a common currency and a single monetary authority to
supervise it. "National segmentation of banking markets will
still remain largely in place . . . for the rest of this
century," BBL's Mr. Peeters predicts.
   To cope, many banks are looking to technology for
solutions. Spain's Banco de Santander, and Britain's Royal
Bank of Scotland, for example, have jointly launched a
link-up, known as IBOS, through which their clients can
conduct cross-border transactions using terminals in either
bank's branches. Under the scheme, each bank will continue to
concentrate on its domestic market, but with the benefit of
extra international reach. The network is designed to span
Europe eventually and Credit Commercial de France has already
signed up to join in.
   At BBL, rather than trying to compete head-on with its
bigger rivals, Mr. Peeters has chosen to build on the bank's
existing skills in computerized banking to grow into what he
calls a "super-regional" bank.
   In technological terms, BBL has already started doing much
of what Mr. Peeters is talking about. BBL has been a leader
in automated banking in Belgium. It launched its Telelink
service in 1982 and now has around 5,500 clients using it,
mostly in Belgium but also including a few abroad. The
service, mainly aimed at businesses, allows clients to run
accounts with both BBL and other banks.
   In September 1990, BBL launched Belgium's first home
banking system. It currently has around 6,000 clients, almost
exclusively in Belgium. Using a personal computer with a
link-up through the telephone network, customers can manage
securities portfolios, make new investments, set up standing
orders, arrange an automatic savings facility, verify direct
debiting and have access to a range of data provided by the
bank.
   Though Mr. Peeters intends to maintain BBL's international
presence in major foreign markets, including London and New
York, his plan is to refocus BBL's operations on its northern
European area of influence. Using BBL's 969 Belgian branches
as a springboard, he intends to offer competitive services to
targeted business and indivdual clients both inside Belgium
and in the neighboring regions of France, Germany and the
Netherlands.
   One major advantage for such plans is Belgium's
multi-cultural character. With Dutch-speaking Flanders in the
north, French-speaking Wallonia to the south and a small
German-speaking enclave on the border with Germany, clients
from across Belgium's borders should have little difficulty
getting acclimatized. Their accounts can be kept in French
francs, guilders or marks, as well as Belgian francs, and
they can talk to their bank manager in their own language.
"Administratively and operationally, the account would be
managed in a local Belgian branch, but the client would have
access to his account through our home banking facilities,"
Mr. Peeters says.
   Of course, there are some drawbacks. For a start,
telephone communication between the client and his Belgian
branch, at present, would be at injuriously high
international rates. And transferring money from one country
to another might pose problems of bank charges and delays.
   Meantime, he says, the important thing is to offer clients
a competitive product in terms of pricing and service.