Saks to Get $300 Million in New Equity
   From Parent in Bid to Calm Suppliers
   ----
   By Jeffrey A. Trachtenberg
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Arthur Martinez, 52, the vice chairman in charge of
finance, administration and operations, will now report to
Mr. Miller.
   According to those familar with Saks's plans, the retailer
is using $150 million of the new equity infusion to retire
senior subordinated long-term debt. The other $150 million
will be applied to the company's $325 million revolving
credit facility. Saks has drawn on $250 million of that
facility; by repaying $150 million, it will reduce its usage
to only $100 million. After the payment, the facility itself
will remain at $325 million. By lowering the amount it
actually borrows, the retailer will benefit from significant
interest savings.
   "What this means is that our bankers will no longer
classify Saks as a highly leveraged transaction," Mr.
Martinez said in an interview. "We have really cleared the
high bar." Although he declined to elaborate, those close to
Saks said that the retailer's debt will subsequently amount
to less than half of total capitalization.
   In recent weeks, Seventh Avenue manufacturers have
repeatedly voiced concerns about the condition of Saks's
finances. Some in the apparel financial community expressed
strong support for Saks following the announcement of the
equity infusion.
   "It takes the pressure off," said David L. Finkelstein,
executive vice president for Century Business Credit Corp., a
New York factoring and financial services firm. "It's an
excellent sign of Investcorp's confidence in Saks, and it
will obviously reduce their interest charges. This will give
all of the factors the confidence to check all orders going
forward."
   The retailer, which was acquired by Investcorp in a 1990
transaction valued at $1.6 billion, has steadfastly refused
to release sales and earnings figures. Investcorp, a Bahrain
company composed primarily of Arab investors, has
successfully invested in a number of U.S. retail properties.
   Mr. Martinez said that for the fiscal year ended Jan. 31,
Saks's sales fared as well as, or better than, those of
high-end, publicly held retailers. Although he said that Saks
had an operating profit for the year, the retailer most
likely suffered a net loss.
   Saks revealed the new cash infusion and Mr. Miller's
promotion in a letter to its sales associates. In the letter,
Saks also noted that it is going forward with a $250 million
capital expansion program. Most of those funds are expected
to be generated internally.
   "We see a great deal of opportunity in the environment to
accelerate our growth planning," Mr. Miller said in an
interview. "We will replace stores in existing markets, and
we expect to build new resort stores and clearance centers."
Saks's first resort store is scheduled to open in Naples,
Fla., in November. Four more such stores are expected by
1996. Saks also operates two clearance stores.