Full Circle:
   Ex-Official of Drexel
   Restructures Firms It
   Loaded Up With Debt
   ---
   Leon Black Buys Junk Bonds
   Cheaply and Swaps Them
   For Big Equity Stakes
   ---
   Happy to Be of Assistance
   ----
   By George Anders
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Now, though, Mr. Black has rebounded. On March 3, he and a
few former Drexel colleagues completed the purchase of the
junk-bond portfolio of First Executive's largest subsidiary
for about $3 billion. The actual owner will be Altus Finance,
which is a finance-company affiliate of Credit Lyonnais, one
of France's largest banks, and which has bankrolled Mr.
Black's charge back into junk bonds. But Mr. Black and his
team are assuming day-to-day control of the First Executive
unit's portfolio.
   Already, their firm, Apollo Investment Fund L.P., has
negotiated to swap defaulted bonds for controlling ownership
stakes in four sizable companies -- Memorex Telex N.V., Cole
National Corp., Gillett Holdings Inc. and Interco Inc. By
some estimates, the Black team could collect at least $200
million in fees and profits over the next five years from
managing junk-bond portfolios.
   Many investors see immense irony in former Drexel
executives' standing to profit from the wreckage of the
junk-bond era. "First they created the mess, and now they're
going to fix it up," says Jeremy Bloomer, head of research at
Credit Research  Trading Corp., a small firm specializing in
junk bonds.
   Mr. Black's rebound especially fascinates Wall Streeters.
Earlier this month, some 200 former Drexel executives agreed
to pay $300 million to help settle lawsuits brought by
investors who contended they were defrauded by means of
Drexel-underwritten junk bonds. Mr. Black is making one of
the largest payments in that settlement, chipping in an
estimated $18 million. (He won't comment on the amount.)
   Yet Mr. Black says it's "absurd" to think that his Drexel
past taints his current work. Most of his own Drexel deals,
he contends, "worked out excellently for bondholders." He
adds: "Do I feel bad, being involved in a market that fell
apart for reasons beyond my control? No. In fact, if I can
help make part of what's out there viable again, I think
that's terrific."
   Indeed, in the rough-and-tumble world of restructuring
debt-laden companies, Mr. Black's controversial past is an
asset. Few people know the ins and outs of such companies as
well as do former Drexel executives who helped pile on the
debt in the first place. And despite Mr. Black's involvement
in junk bonds, he was never implicated in any of the criminal
activities to which Drexel pleaded guilty in 1988.
   Mr. Black, a stocky 40-year-old with a mop of black hair,
seldom charms people on first impression. Even friends say he
tends to be painfully shy. And he has trouble with basic
office etiquette, such as tucking in his shirt or coming to
meetings on time. His obsession about his own pay also has
become legendary, thanks partly to an oft-told story about
his final bonus payment from Drexel in January 1990. Told he
would get $13 million, he sputtered with indignation until
Drexel relented -- and raised it to $16 million.
   Whatever his quirks, Mr. Black has long shown a remarkable
knack for focusing on Wall Street opportunities before other
people discern them. As a young investment banker at Drexel
in 1981, he chose to specialize in cable television, well
before it became an established industry. In the mid-1980s,
he was a dominant figure in leveraged buy-outs. And now, he's
the kingpin of restructurings.
   "He has the insight to know where the next game is and the
ability to play it," says Mark Utay, a former Drexel official
now at Bankers Trust Co.
   In recent months, Apollo has stormed into the affairs of
one debt-troubled company after another -- occasionally two
in a single week. About half of Apollo's targets are former
Drexel clients; the others are companies that dealt with
other Wall Street advisers in the 1980s. In each case, Apollo
arms itself beforehand with a commanding position in the
company's defaulted bonds or bank debt, snapped up at a big
discount to face value.
   Among Apollo's holdings: $200 million face value of
Interco bank debt; at least $300 million face value of E-II
Holdings Inc. bonds, and big blocks of Price Communications
Inc. and Revco D.S. Inc. debt. In each case, Apollo is
offering to swap defaulted debt for something else: cash, new
bonds, a stake in the business or ownership of some of the
debtor's best assets.
   Other restructuring specialists, though, express some
unease about Apollo. "They can be very piggy in what they
want," says Tally Embry, a specialist who jousted with Apollo
over the Revco deal. Apollo is likely to end up with a big
gain in that deal; Mr. Embry hopes to break even.
   Some traders say Mr. Black's shrill, somewhat whiny
negotiating style is well-suited to the protracted haggling
that marks most restructurings. "This business amounts to
dividing up the pain," says Robert Miller, a veteran
bankruptcy attorney. Others say Mr. Black, a habitual
worrier, often prevails by portraying himself as having been
mistreated by all parties.
   But getting into the restructuring business in a big way
wasn't easy for Mr. Black. After Drexel collapsed in February
1990, he was adrift for several months. He rented a small
office at his brother-in-law's financial firm in Manhattan
and told people he was thinking of cutting back his Wall
Street ties and spending more time with his children.
   Then, in the spring of 1990, Thierry de La Villehuchet,
who heads Credit Lyonnais's New York securities unit, tried
to recruit Mr. Black to set up a small U.S. mergers and
acquisitions department for the French bank. Mr. de La
Villehuchet says he wasn't worried about Mr. Black's Drexel
background; he simply wanted an aggressive, well-known merger
specialist.
   Mr. Black was initially so unimpressed by Credit
Lyonnais's stature in the U.S. that he didn't bother to
return the Frenchman's first six phone calls. But Mr. de La
Villehuchet kept trying, and Mr. Black met with him over
breakfast. Mr. Black heard the French offer, then made a
counterproposal. Rather than join Credit Lyonnais as an
employee, Mr. Black said, he would prefer to set up shop as
an independent investor. Credit Lyonnais could be one of his
major backers, providing a bankroll of $100 million or more.
For that amount of money, Mr. de La Villehuchet replied, Mr.
Black should fly to Paris and meet with Jean-Francois Henin,
who heads the bank's Altus affiliate.
   In late-April 1990, Messrs. Black and Henin held the first
of several meetings in Paris. They hit it off quickly. Mr.
Black talked about the investment opportunities he saw in the
junk-bond market, which had been plunging for nearly a year.
   "It wasn't a hard sell," Mr. Black recalls. "I told him I
thought the pendulum had swung to an extreme. Good-quality
junk bonds were yielding 20%. Contracyclical thinkers could
do very well at a time like that." Within two months of that
first meeting, Altus turned over to Mr. Black $400 million to
be invested in junk bonds. By the end of 1990, Altus's
contribution had swelled to nearly $1 billion.
   Mr. Henin, who oversees a $20 billion portfolio, declines
to be interviewed, but people who have worked with him term
such giant, rapid bets totally in keeping with his style. The
balding, unassuming Mr. Henin also is an avowed contrarian,
willing to make investments that fly in the face of
conventional market wisdom.
   Even before Mr. Black signed on, Mr. Henin, largely as a
customer of Morgan Stanley  Co., had invested about $500
million in high-yield junk bonds as that market collapsed in
1989 and early 1990. "High yield was definitely something
that he wanted to aggressively pursue," says one bond trader
who dealt frequently with Mr. Henin. Evidently, Mr. Henin
anticipated a rebound and wanted a much more direct pipeline
into the market -- exactly what Mr. Black provided.
   For Mr. Black, the French alliance swiftly revitalized his
career. He agreed to make trans-Atlantic phone calls two or
three times a week to Mr. Henin, who insisted on approving
any bond purchases over $20 million. Mr. Black left his
brother-in-law's building and moved into much smarter offices
in Credit Lyonnais's Sixth Avenue headquarters in Manhattan.
He also recruited about a dozen former Drexel people, led by
Craig Cogut, John Hannon and Arthur Bilger. They named their
firm Apollo Investment, after the Greek god of healing, and
set out to make money.
   Apollo started quietly buying big blocks of defaulted
bonds at cut-rate prices, including the remnants of some
ill-fated Drexel underwritings. Apollo also launched hardball
negotiations with beleaguered corporate executives to swap
those bonds for cash or major equity stakes.
   With its first big investment, Apollo headed straight into
controversy -- and profits. In late 1990, the firm bought
$200 million face value of Harcourt Brace Jovanovich Inc.'s
13 3/4% bonds even though the publishing company was
struggling to cope with too much debt. Because other
investors were glum about its prospects, Apollo was able to
buy the HBJ bonds for just 65 cents on the dollar.
   In January 1991, the value of those bonds soared when
General Cinema Corp. proposed to acquire HBJ for $1.4
billion. But Mr. Black disliked the proposed terms. General
Cinema wanted to buy Apollo's bonds for 77 cents on the
dollar, and Mr. Black was sure they were worth more. He
refused to sell his bonds, despite repeated phone calls from
General Cinema Chairman Richard Smith.
   Last June, Messrs. Black and Smith met in Boston to thrash
out their differences. Both men say Mr. Black pressed for a
better deal, arguing that his bonds were so well
collateralized that he would collect nearly full value even
if HBJ was forced into bankruptcy. Soon after the meeting,
Mr. Smith -- who seldom budges in negotiations -- raised his
total offer for HBJ by $100 million, which included an extra
$28 million for Mr. Black's bonds.
   "Leon didn't save us any money," Mr. Smith comments.
"Buying HBJ cost us top dollar. But without him, nothing
would have got done. The company would have disintegrated."
   Strengthened by that coup, Mr. Black won much wider
latitude from his French patrons to pick his junk-bond
investments. Part way through 1991, Mr. Black and Mr. Cogut
found their next big deal: an audacious plan to gain control
of the ski and broadcasting empire of a Colorado businessman,
George Gillett.
   Mr. Gillett, a major Drexel client in the 1980s, had
borrowed too much and couldn't pay interest on his junk
bonds. Angry creditors, including financier Carl Icahn and
the Fidelity Investments mutual-fund group, were pressing Mr.
Gillett to give up ownership of his company entirely and push
the company into bankruptcy proceedings. That way, creditors
could take over the Vail ski resort and other prized Gillett
properties.
   Messrs. Black and Cogut positioned themselves artfully.
They quietly bought about $200 million face value of Gillett
Holdings bonds at a big discount to face value. Then they sat
down with Mr. Gillett and devised a tough restructuring plan.
Apollo would pump a fresh $40 million into the company and
arrange to trim its $1 billion of debt to $600 million. Mr.
Gillett could keep his title of chairman but would have to
cede about 90% ownership of Gillett Holdings to creditors,
with more than 50% going to Apollo.
   "This was not an easy process for me," Mr. Gillett later
said. The restructuring nearly wiped out his own fortune,
once estimated at $500 million. But he had little choice.
Last summer, Gillett Holdings filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy
protection and embraced the Apollo plan. Trying to save face,
Mr. Gillett told reporters that he had "invited" Mr. Black to
become the company's biggest shareholder.
   Now, Apollo's pace of restructurings is likely to pick up
considerably. On March 10, Apollo and Altus announced they
had converted defaulted bonds in Memorex Telex into a 25.2%
stake in the computer-services company, and turned defaulted
bonds in Cole National into a 40% stake in the retailer. Both
bondholdings came from Executive Life Insurance Co. of
California, First Executive's main unit.
   Analysts say the Executive Life junk-bond portfolio
contains at least 20 major positions in troubled companies
that could turn into reprises of the HBJ or Gillett battles.
It also includes smaller bondholdings in some 300 other
companies.
   In April 1991, California's insurance commissioner, John
Garamendi, seized control of Executive Life, saying it was on
the brink of insolvency. At first he appeared eager to sell
most of the junk-bond portfolio to the Altus/Apollo team for
about $2.7 billion. But, worried that Mr. Black's team might
have an unfair edge because of Drexel's intimate knowledge of
most junk-bond deals in which First Executive had invested,
Mr. Garamendi staged a series of auctions for the portfolio.
He got about a half-dozen other offers. Altus, after raising
its bid several times, was ultimately declared the winner,
although the deal wasn't closed for nearly four more months.
   Apollo executives won't say how profits from the Executive
Life portfolio will be divided. But people involved in the
deal say Altus put up all the capital for the acquisition and
will keep approximately the first eight percentage points of
annual income from the portfolio. Additional gains will be
divided up on the basis of 10% to 20% for Apollo and 80% to
90% for Altus. On that basis, if the portfolio produces $1
billion to $1.5 billion in gains over the next five years --
as is widely expected on Wall Street -- Apollo's fees and cut
of the profits might be about $200 million.
   Some former Drexel executives speculate that if Drexel's
former junk-bond chief, Michael Milken, weren't in prison for
breaking securities laws, he would be pursuing deals much
like Mr. Black's. In any event, Mr. Black, who never quite
made it into Mr. Milken's inner circle at Drexel, now is in
the curious position of being the standard-bearer of the
ex-Drexel community. Mr. Black insists he isn't driven by any
desire to emulate or supplant Mr. Milken. But longtime
colleagues of both argue otherwise. Says one Drexel alumnus,
Jay Bloom: "Leon's desire is to be what Mike Milken was: the
financier of last resort."