Marketing  Media:
   K-III Communications Has Plans to Sell
   $350 Million in Junk Bonds, Preferred
   ----
   By Patrick M. Reilly and George Anders
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
Closely held K-III also made public for the first time an
overview of its finances. For 1991, the company had sales of
$795 million and cash flow -- or earnings before interest,
taxes, depreciation and amortization -- of $129 million. Huge
amortization expenses, as well as a big debt bill, left K-III
with a net loss of $169.7 million for the year.
   K-III's strong cash flow may be sufficient to satisfy
potential bond buyers. However, the company's big net loss
makes it unlikely that K-III will be able to finance its
growth by a public stock sale anytime soon.
   In its filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission,
K-III said it plans to sell $250 million in junk bonds due in
2002 and $100 million in preferred stock. The offering would
be underwritten by Donaldson Lufkin Jenrette Securities Corp.
and an affiliate of Bankers Trust New York Corp.
   K-III also disclosed that its chairman and chief executive
officer, William F. Reilly, earned more than $1.3 million
last year in salary and bonuses. The company's president,
Charles McCurdy, did even better, collecting more than $1.6
million, including an $811,000 bonus relating to the
company's acquisitions.
   K-III's most visible properties -- eight magazines and a
racetrack newspaper that were acquired from Rupert Murdoch in
June 1991 -- are also its most volatile. The magazines
produced $62.4 million of cash flow amid difficult conditions
last year, as national advertisers slashed their budgets and
consumers bought fewer magazines.
   Among K-III's magazines, New Woman, Premiere, New York and
Seventeen posted double-digit drops in ad pages in 1991.
European Travel  Life, which incurred nearly a 25% drop in
ad pages last year, was recently put up for sale and K-III
said it is considering several offers. Its most profitable
titles appear to be the big newsstand sellers Soap Opera
Weekly and Soap Opera Digest.
   When K-III bought Murdoch Magazines for $650 million,
there was talk it had overpaid by as much as $100 million.
Mr. Reilly hotly disputed that view. K-III executives said
they turned down the fashion magazine Mirabella because it
would take too long to make a profit. Instead, K-III
successfully negotiated to include the Daily Racing Form, a
proven money maker, in the Murdoch purchase.
   Less glitzy but more stable are K-III's properties in its
direct response and information divisions. Those businesses
together produced $57.4 million in cash flow last year. In
direct response, Newbridge Communications is one of the
largest professional book clubs, and Newfield Publications
Inc. is the leading direct marketer of children's book clubs.
The division also includes the Weekly Reader student
newspaper and the Funk  Wagnalls encyclopedias.
   The information division includes the Daily Racing Form,
which recently bought some of the assets of its only
competitor, the Racing Times, which folded. It also publishes
directories and newsletters for the railroad, ocean freight
and trucking industries, and industrial machine guides and
manuals.