International:
   Mitterrand Prepares to Replace Cresson
   ---
   But Ousting Prime Minister
   Isn't Likely to Assuage
   Growing French Malaise
   ----
   By Peter Gumbel
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The top contender for her job is Jacques Delors, currently
the head of the European Community's executive Commission in
Brussels and a favored future candidate for the French
presidency. Finance Minister Pierre Beregovoy is also in the
running, according to Elysee and other sources. Spokesmen for
Mr. Delors and Mr. Beregovoy declined to comment.
   President Mitterrand, who prizes loyalty, may still change
his mind. But officials both inside and outside his
administration now believe that only a major purge can help
restore his reputation after a series of bruising political
scandals.
   His clumsy handling of the latest incident, which involved
a leading Palestinian terrorist who was allowed to fly to
Paris for medical treatment, has sparked widespread talk that
Mr. Mitterrand is a spent force. Yesterday, the French
Parliament failed to adopt a motion to censure the Socialist
government over the George Habash incident. However, a poll
published in the magazine Le Point this week showed that
almost half the population favors a presidential election
this year, three years ahead of time. And the phrase "fin de
regne", or the end of the reign, keeps cropping up in media
coverage and conversations with political and business
leaders.
   Still, Elysee officials insist that it's too early to
write Mr. Mitterrand off. They are sketching out a scenario
they hope will enable him to regain the political initiative,
and improved ratings, by the end of the year. Essentially, it
involves the president capitalizing on his pro-European
stance, moving to reform the French constitution -- and
keeping his fingers crossed that the economy will pick up as
expected in the spring.
   But even the best-planned political maneuvering mightn't
be sufficient, because the nation's disillusionment with Mr.
Mitterrand seems to be just part of a deeper predicament.
France, long famed for a self-confidence that bordered on
arrogance, is in the doldrums, adrift in a world it no longer
recognizes.
   The malaise is everywhere. It resounds in the executive
suites of French banks and corporations, where many worry
about being able to compete with their neighbors,
particularly Germany. It is especially strong in the
countryside, where farmers fear that their traditions will be
sacrificed to a woolly notion of a unified Europe.
   Most vividly, it is on display in the nation's bookstores,
where most of the latest releases are angst-ridden testaments
to the loss of French national pride, or urgent pleas for
sweeping reform.
   "At the start of this last decade of the 20th century,
France has broken down without realizing it," reads the first
sentence of one, "La France en Panne," or "Broken-Down
France" by Alain Cotta. The titles of many others -- "The
Corrupt Republic," "The Socialist Catastrophe," "The French
Regression" -- are largely variations on the same theme.
   "Poor France," mused an article in the usually upbeat
magazine, Paris Match, this month. "Never have publishers'
catalogs proposed so many pessimistic books about the future
of France. . . . Malaise made in France clearly sells."
   For the legions of Japanese and other tourists wandering
around Paris, marveling at the manicured elegance of the City
of Light, such dark feelings may seem out of place. France's
recent economic record is certainly far better than that of,
say, the U.S. or Britain. Unemployment is stubbornly high,
but France has managed to stave off recession and its
inflation rate is actually lower than Germany's.
   The self-doubt, however, stems mainly from an unsettling
lack of certainty, both political and economic. Caught off
guard by the two biggest events of the past months, the rise
of Germany and the fall of Communism, Paris is struggling to
refocus its vision. So far, that means clasping on to a
contradictory notion of a closer-knit Europe in which France
somehow manages to surrender some sovereignty but still
remains a power of the first order.
   "There's a combination of hope and fear. People feel
uncomfortable with change," says Jean-Claude Haas, a partner
at the powerful French bank, Lazard Freres. As Western Europe
heads toward monetary and political union, he says, key
questions remain open, primarily which country will emerge on
top, and how. "Will Germany rule a united Europe?" he asks.
"In which case, do we want a united Europe if it becomes a
German colony?"
   Similar questions are on the menu at lunch with Jacques
Calvet, chairman of the French auto maker P.S.A. Peugeot
Citroen. For the first half hour, he launches a frank attack
on Mr. Mitterrand. But by the time the main course is served,
it's apparent that Mr. Calvet's complaints aren't so much
about the president's personality as about the absence of a
strong political power in France that knows where the country
is heading.
   France is in poor shape to defend its interests either in
the EC or in larger forums such as the General Agreement on
Tariffs and Trade, Mr. Calvet frets. Moreover, a weak
government has enabled extremists to boost their standing, to
a point where they now represent a real threat.
   "In many ways, it's worse than the Fourth Republic," Mr.
Calvet says, referring to the years 1946 to 1958, an era of
political instability. What is needed, he says, is a much
clearer sense of purpose, and an intense effort to boost the
nation's competitiveness so it isn't left behind when Europe
is unified.
   While such pro-European views may reflect the opinions of
many in the business community, they are still very much
contested. France's pampered farmers, in particular, are
agitated, sensing that the big subsidies they have enjoyed
for three decades are on the way out.
   Such worries play into the hands of extreme political
groups, particularly the anti-foreigner National Front of
JeanMarie Le Pen, which claims that it alone is preserving
France's national identity. "There has been a complete
rupture between ordinary people and the political classes,"
says Jacques Olivier, a Front ideologist, explaining how his
party is benefiting from the general malaise. "The little man
sitting in his cafe no longer believes what the political
class is saying."
   Opinion polls show that the Front may pick up as much as
20% of the vote in some areas in next month's regional
elections. The elections, says one presidential aide, "will
be a disaster."
   But Elysee officials say Mr. Mitterrand hopes to bounce
back quickly, with a new government and a major effort to
regain the political momentum. By one favorite scenario, he
will call on Mr. Delors to become prime minister, enticing
him by promising him unusual autonomy.
   Polls show Mr. Delors is among the most popular French
politicians, and could restore at least some confidence in
the government. His term at the European Commission runs out
this year, and he had been expected to renew it for another
two years. But Elysee officials believe he will accept an
offer because it would put him in position to realize his
presidential ambitions. "If he is called he won't say no,"
says one official.