Profit at Turner
   Broadcasting Rose
   Sixfold in Quarter
   ----
   By Daniel Pearl
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Turner's fourth-quarter net income rose to $43.4 million
from $7.3 million the previous year, on a 13% increase in
revenue, as Turner's entertainment and news networks
continued to grow and smaller operations, like sports and
syndication and licensing, began posting profits. After
payment of preferred-stock dividends, net income was 16 cents
a share in the quarter, compared with a loss of three cents
in the prior year.
   For the year, net jumpted to $85.9 million from $4.6
million the previous year. After dividends, that came to 23
cents a share, compared with a loss of 28 cents. Revenue rose
7.3% from 1990.
   Part of the surprise apparently came from Turner's
syndication and licensing unit, which was the company's weak
spot through most of 1991. In the fourth quarter, the
division reversed its revenue decline and showed a small
operating profit. "We're hopeful we're going to rebound out
of the earlier results," said Terence F. McGuirk, executive
vice president.
   Also, the Atlanta Braves' surprise World Series appearance
helped Turner's bottom line more than some analysts had
predicted. Though Turner's networks couldn't show the Braves
playoff games, October stadium sales and concessions helped
boost sports profits to $4 million in the latest quarter from
a loss of $7.6 million last year.
   The company's entertainment division was boosted by TNT,
which after three years is still Turner's fastest-growing
network. The network, which features sports and classic
movies, produced the largest share of the division's 18%
increase in revenue and 46% increase in operating profits
during 1991 (the figures exclude the impact of the 1990
Goodwill Games). Turner said most of TNT's new revenue came
from subscription income, as the network gained 4.4 million
new subscribing homes and increased its subscriber fees.
   Cable News Network and Headline News services, meanwhile,
showed a 25% increase in yearlong operating profits, despite
increased coverage costs from the Gulf War and Soviet coup.
Turner said advertising and subscriptions each rose 16%, and
international news revenue doubled, bringing in an extra $28
million.
   Turner's dividend, payable March 19 to shareholders of
record March 3, is 1.125 cents a share for Class A stock and
1.25 cents a share for Class B stock. Mr. McGuirk said the
board doesn't envision increasing the dividend in the near
future.