Los Angeles
   Scraps Contract
   With Sumitomo
   ---
   Rising Buy-American Tide
   Inspires Panel to Cancel
   Big Order for Rail Cars
   ----
   By Sonia L. Nazario
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
It further voted "in principle" to require that 60% of
future rail-car contract dollars be spent domestically as the
county builds the $150 billion, 400-mile system, and said it
might consider raising the requirement for U.S. participation
to 75%. Over 30 years, the Metro Line project is expected to
become the nation's second-largest urban rail system.
   "You will see this all over the country in how government
contracts are awarded now. This will reverberate around the
country," predicted Los Angeles City Councilman Joel Wachs,
an opponent of the Japanese award who said he had been
deluged with thousands of calls from like-minded
constituents. "This will keep jobs from going abroad," he
said.
   But Barna S. Szabo, a consultant for Sumitomo Corp. of
America, said the move to require such hefty local spending
will exclude any possible future foreign contracts. "There is
no way" Sumitomo could bid on a contract that required 75% of
contract dollars be spent in Los Angeles County, he said.
"This will ensure that there is a U.S. monopoly for this
market."
   It also could provide another chance for business for
Morrison Knudsen Co. -- the only U.S. company that builds
such rail cars, and loser to Sumitomo in the original
contract for cars for the system's 20-mile-long Green Line.
The Boise, Idaho, company's bid lost despite being $5 million
lower than Sumitomo's, because the 11-member county
transportation commission originally ruled that the Japanese
company had superior managerial skills and other advantages.
   Despite that prospect, however, Morrison Knudsen Chairman
William Agee warned that Los Angeles County might make an
expensive mistake entering the rail-car-making business on
its own. "The Soviet Union just moved away from this kind of
ownership," he said at the hearing. "It just doesn't work."
   Morrison Knudsen's rejected bid to build the Green Line's
41 cars would have created 4,900 U.S. jobs, compared with the
1,750 domestic jobs initially envisioned with the Japanese
company's bid. However, after Sumitomo's contract came under
attack, the Tokyo concern began talks with the transportation
systems unit of General Electric Co. for a possible role as a
supplier of electric propulsion systems.
   In Erie, Pa., a spokeswoman for the unit of Fairfield,
Conn.-based GE said talks with Sumitomo were suspended when
the company was told recently to suspend work on the program,
but could resume if there were a need. The GE unit, the
largest U.S. maker of such propulsion systems, was part of
Morrison Knudsen's supplier team for its competing bid.
   After the transportation commission's vote late yesterday,
Sumitomo's U.S.-unit president, Kenji Miyahara, issued a
statement saying the company was "deeply disappointed," and
was considering how to respond. "For the last two years, all
concerned parties knew the ground rules for awarding the
contract as well as the identities of the bidders.
Nevertheless, our contract was canceled for
non-business-related reasons," the statement said.
   Pressure on the commission to reverse the award has come
from the region's rising unemployment -- especially in the
aerospace business -- and from what was perceived as a poor
showing by President Bush in his trade talks in Japan.
   "We have really high unemployment rates," said Bob
Lafarga, one of 50 members of Local 507 of the Laborers
International Union at the hearing. "We also have the
homeless. We are awarding contracts to other people rather
than spending the money in our own backyard."
   Waving signs with slogans such as "American Jobs for
Americans," many in the audience applauded loudly as
politicians prodded the council to revoke the Japanese
contract. "We ought to use our tax dollars to create jobs in
Los Angeles," said California Assemblyman Richard Katz,
chairman of the assembly's Transportation Committee, who
nonetheless scoffed at the notion of the county itself
opening a rail-car manufacturing facility. Though elements of
Japan-bashing was at a minimum, one union member testified
that "the Japanese have handed us another Pearl Harbor."
   Were the county to build its own rail-car plant, it could
help jump-start a domestic rail-car business that currently
accounts for only about 4% of cars world-wide. Such a plant,
which could also potentially produce transit-system buses,
was estimated initially to cost $49 million, though some
politicians suggested that might be an unrealistically low
figure.