REVIEW  OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   Urban Therapy
It's shunning the "B" word, but this Pennsylvania city is
effectively bankrupt. Like many cities, Scranton lacks the
political will to tackle its problems, but it's inviting the
state in to clean house under a "distressed cities" program.
If the state agrees, it will appoint an administrator with
the authority to reorganize the city's bloated government and
even dictate the terms of labor contracts. Something like the
shock therapy Scranton is seeking may be necessary if other
cities are going to abandon the outdated management and
employment practices that are a major cause of their decline.
   Scranton's problems are longstanding. The decline of the
coal and railroad industries has taken the city's population
down to 80,000 today from 143,000 in 1930. But Scranton's
major problem is that its city government hasn't shrunk.
   In 1988, a consulting firm hired by a city commission
concluded that the "city government appears to exist for the
benefit of its employees instead of the people." The firm
recommended the city's 650-person municipal work force be
reduced by at least 20%. Payroll and pensions account for
three out of four dollars in the city's $42 million annual
budget. The firm's recommendations were ignored, and since
then the city has run three consecutive deficits. This year's
could top $7.7 million.
   The city has tried to pay for its padded payroll by
raising every tax in sight. Scranton's wage tax of 2.4% is
the highest in the state. The average Scranton family pays
nearly $1,000 a year in city taxes alone. Employers are hit
with a "business privilege" tax and a "mercantile" tax. The
result, according to City Clerk Frank Naughton, has been "to
chase business and people out of the city."
   Mr. Naughton told us that rather than confront problems
directly, the city government has papered things over. "The
political will hasn't been there," admits City Council
President Michael J. Melnick, who has asked the state to step
in. The current Republican mayor opposes seeking "distressed
city" status and instead wants to refinance the city-owned
golf course to make up the deficit.
   "Distressed city" status may help Scranton snag some
no-interest loans, but the emphasis of any state help will be
to assist the city streamline its government. The state would
appoint an administrator, who would propose a
financial-recovery plan that could include guidelines for new
labor-union contracts and layoffs. The mayor would have to
either accept the plan or propose a satisfactory one of his
own.
   Such an arrangement can pay big dividends. When Michigan's
Ecorse was put into receivership in 1986, a judge gave a
municipal-bond expert named Louis Schimmel wide-ranging
powers to clean house. When he stepped down in 1990, Mr.
Schimmel had held the line on taxes, cut the work force in
half and hired private firms to handle most services.
   Some cities have tried management reforms such as
privatization on their own. Take Mission Viejo, California, a
city with almost the same population as Scranton. Though it
doesn't have Scranton's declining economic base, it is still
a model of how a city can deliver a high level of services at
lower cost.
   Mission Viejo's $27.5 million annual budget is two-thirds
that of Scranton's, thanks to its low overhead. It accepts
competitive bids from private firms for some services and
contracts with county government for law enforcement. As a
result, Mission Viejo has only 65 municipal employees, or
one-tenth the number serving Scranton. Far from having a
deficit, City Council member William Craycraft wants to
rebate $10 million of the city's $21 million surplus to the
taxpayers. Mr. Craycraft agrees Scranton faces some different
challenges, but he maintains "they could be made a lot less
severe by adopting some of our reforms."
   Ideally, cities in fiscal crisis should be able to bite
the bullet on their own and restructure their municipal
services. But if, as in Scranton's case, they can't summon
the political courage then having a city turn itself over to
an outside manager for a while may look like a pretty good
idea to a lot of fed-up taxpayers.