LEISURE  ARTS:
   World's Most Beautiful Maps
   ----
   By Amy Gamerman
It hardly seems the stuff of sensuousness -- at least
until you see it. This luminous 37-foot-by-58-foot map has
more in common with a silver-nitrate photograph than the
multicolored maps remembered from most classrooms. America's
peaks and valleys appear in shadowed silver against a black
background, revealing the snaking arteries of the Mississippi
River, the elephant-skin-like ridges of the Rocky Mountains
and the delicate coastal tracery bordering the Gulf of Mexico
in stark relief. It's enough to get anyone a little excited.
   "Our idea is, everybody has roadmaps. . . . That's what
you want if you're trying to find your kid's summer camp,"
says Mr. Allan, head cartographer for Raven Maps, the
Oregon-based map maker (800-237-0798) that produces
"Drainage" and 28 other maps. "We want people to be able to
sense the physical place through the landforms."
   Those landforms range from the state of Ohio -- its
surprisingly variegated landscape captured in shades of green
and yellow -- to Oregon's Crater Lake, set like a sapphire in
the wrinkled brown folds of Mount Mozama. For the broader
perspective, there's "One World," a 35-foot-by-63-foot,
three-globe view of the planet, which seems to rotate against
a black background, or "World Cities at Night," a
25-foot-by-38-foot stunner in black and midnight blue that
shows the planet's most populated spots as white-hot dots of
light.
   Mr. Allan, who stumbled into cartography while a graduate
student at the University of Oregon ("I fell in love with
some maps on the wall in the geography department, which I
found by chance looking for the men's room"), is alive to the
romance of his metier. He started Raven Maps with partner
Michael Beard in 1985. Although the pair had expected to win
over geoscientists and other cartographically inclined folk,
they soon realized they were onto something bigger.
   "Whenever the UPS driver arrived, he made his delivery and
went and spent a minute or two in front of a proof of the
Oregon map," says Mr. Beard, who handles the business end of
things. "This is where he went hunting, this is where he went
fishing, this is where his grandparents lived. . . . There
are an awful lot of people who want to know {about
geography}; they've just never been exposed to something that
attracts their interest."
   There's nothing unique about the information contained in
the maps, which comes from the U.S. Geological Survey and
other public sources. What sets them apart is Raven's
painterly use of color and shading, which gives its maps
uncommon depth and texture. On its state maps, for example,
Raven's cartographic team uses film with a removable
emulsion, peeling away the surface coating between each set
of contour lines and adding a band of color. The tinting is
subtly varied as the elevation changes: forest green for the
lowest altitudes, fading to yellow and brown and bleaching
out to white for the highest snow-capped peaks.
   The result, when seen in a map such as "Alaska," is
stunning. Itchingly tactile, it stretches from the deep brown
furrows of the Alaska Range to the Aleutian Islands, which
unfurl into the Bering Sea like a green-and-yellow charm
bracelet. At 35 feet by 63 feet it's too big to fit in your
glove compartment, but hung on a wall or stretched out on the
floor, it's a vivid bird's-eye view of the state.
   "We're trying to make a flat piece of paper look
three-dimensional," says Mr. Allan. "With our best maps,
people reach out and put their fingers on them."
   Creating that illusion takes time: 1,200 hours is usual
for a state map, although "Alaska" took 2,500. And that was
just a warmup for "One World" -- a map 2 1/2 years in the
making.
   "We didn't have a very good source for that information at
an appropriate scale," Mr. Allan explains. "It's easy to get
stuff in the U.S. . . . It can get tough when you're trying
to find what's underneath the Indian Ocean."
   Because the sheer bulk of information would burn out a
computer, much of the work for "One World" had to be done by
hand. The earth's angles made for new problems with tinting
-- "that bit of Africa curving around in the center globe"
proved especially tricky. In an elegant touch, identifying
type was curved to match.
   Even with such large-scale projects, rich use of color
remains the Raven hallmark. To reflect the varying depths of
"One World's" oceans, the team used a palate of blues ranging
from sky to turquoise to lapis, "a color scheme," Mr. Allan
says, "that looked how it might look flying over the
Bahamas." The seemingly monochromatic "Drainage" map owes its
three-dimensional appeal to the use of several shades of
black and gray.
   But these maps are more than pretty pictures. "World
Cities at Night" uses census information from numerous
countries to show cities or areas with populations of 25,000
and more -- one-third the world's population. At first
glance, the map is a sleek night view of an Earth dotted by a
thousand glamorously positioned points of light. Keep
looking, however, and you'll notice that while the huge
continent of Africa is largely dark, with patches of light in
South Africa and Nigeria, the tiny island of Japan is almost
solidly white.
   "{Japan} is small physically, but look how urbanized it
is, how developed it is," Mr. Allan says. "You can look at
that map for hours and keep seeing things you didn't know. .
. . Manchuria in northeast China. Wow] There's a lot of
people] Or how about the huge industrial cities of central
Russia, the east Urals. It's an industrial belt."
   If the maps contain lessons about modern geopolitics, they
also are studies in ancient history. Mr. Allan waxes lyrical
when discussing his "Drainage" map.
   "The Mississippi used to flow into the Hudson Bay: The
reason it goes south instead is because an iceberg blocked
the flow for the next 100,000 years," he says. "Eventually
the glacier retreated and left those enormous scoops. They're
so subtle that when you drive across there, you may be
completely unaware of it and think it's monotonous." He
sighs. "We're just ants crawling over the surface of the
Earth."
   Geographically illiterate ants can look forward to more
maps from Raven: After finishing maps for all 50 states -- a
five- or six-year project -- Mr. Allan has set his sights on
the entire continent.
   "It's very bothersome to have to take just the 48 states,"
he says. "It's like doing a bust instead of a full-figure
sculpture. It has its beauty but the fact is there's
something truncated about it."
   ---
   Corrections
                                                                                                       

   Tuesday's Leisure  Arts page article "World's Most
Beautiful Maps" incorrectly stated the dimensions of four
maps created by an Oregon company, Raven Maps. The length and
width given for each map represented inches, not feet.
   (WSJ Feb. 21, 1992)