Letters to the Editor:
   What Is: 1. Good Science? 2. A Scientist?
It is a common practice for the regulated and those who
support them (such as your Review  Outlook staff) to claim
that the facts do not support the proposed regulatory
activity. Typically, the challenge is made that we need more
data. The reality, of course, is that there is never enough
data to satisfy the regulated (witness the tobacco
companies). It is a typical tactic used by defense attorneys
-- exploit all the unknowns and any seeming contradictions.
Confuse the jury.
   There are very few absolutes in science. Demanding
absolutes is not good science. Good science cannot be defined
by the regulated and their stable of attorneys and the
scientists whom they provide support either directly or
indirectly.
   Elizabeth Whelan, of whom you made reference, is a
scientist, as am I. She heads an organization whose major
tenet I would describe as being: "I have never met a chemical
of considerable economic value that was not safe." It is
self-serving to argue that Ms. Whelan and other members of
her industry-sponsored group somehow have the market on "good
science" and that scientists supporting a pro-regulation
position are therefore proponents of science that is somehow
less than "good."
   Thad Godish
   Professor, Natural Resources
   Ball State University
   Muncie, Ind.
   ---
   Your editorial was interesting to this wildlife biologist.
Having worked with a genetically engineered rabies vaccine,
two endangered species and the realm of anti-hunting
silliness, many of the names and circumstances in the piece
were familiar to me. Amid the examples of how the scientific
method has been abused in policy debates, however, I could
find no evidence that you enlightened your readership on the
matter.
   The problem is the unclear use of names and phrases. You
did not distinguish between a scientist who contributes to a
debate and a debater who sways scientific results in support
of an agenda. The central point is that the label "scientist"
has been misapplied. Is Jeremy Rifkin a scientist or an
advocate? What's the difference between "advocates of the
spotted owl" and ornithologists?
   If you recognize a scientist as anyone claiming
"above-average powers of insight," then you miss the whole
concept of science. Insight is secondary to the discipline of
stating results along with assumptions and probabilities of
error. A true scientist, unlike a true advocate, will always
point out that every result was observed under specific
circumstances, and is subject to the chance it was a fluke
(Type I statistical error), or that the failure to observe a
result was an oversight (Type II error).
   For us scientists to retain (in some cases, rebuild) our
credibility, we need the help of the media to reinforce the
distinction between a scientist and a spin doctor. As
Voltaire said, "If you would converse with me, define your
terms." Scientists qualify statements with the assumptions of
the studies that generated them, and include the probability
of a mistake. Advocates predict outcomes and argue simple
causes and effects.
   Gregory T.M. Schildwachter
   Graduate Research Assistant
   Wildlife Science
   University of Tennessee at Knoxville
   Maryville, Tenn.