REVIEW  OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   Fat-Free Frank
But some Members aren't satisfied with just mailing to
their current constituents. Dozens of Members are taking
advantage of a loophole in the House Rules to mail to people
outside their districts. Because the nation's congressional
districts are being redrawn this year, Members are allowed to
send mass mailings to areas that may be added to their
district for the November election and to counties that
border their current district. The excuse is that a Member
should be able to "introduce" himself to potential
constituents. The practical effect is to discourage
challengers from filing against incumbents, and to make it
more difficult for those brave challengers who do run to win.
   Rep. Bill Thomas of California has introduced legislation
to level the political playing field a bit by closing such
franking loopholes. He says the potential for abuse is
mind-boggling. Because he represents a corner of Los Angeles
County, Rep. Thomas could send mail to residents of all the
adjoining counties -- a big advantage if he ran for statewide
office. "I could mail to two-thirds of the state's residents,
if I could afford it," he says.
   Even traditional defenders of congressional perks, such as
Brookings Institution scholar Thomas Mann, can't justify this
latest abuse of power. Rep. Thomas has more than 50
co-sponsors for his franking-reform bill, including such
brave Democrats as Barney Frank of Massachusetts and Anthony
Beilenson of California. The Democratic leadership is
embarrassed by the franking abuses, but is quietly moving to
sidetrack the Thomas reforms by attaching it to the
legislative appropriations bill. That bill is unlikely to be
approved until September, by which time Members will have
completed all the out-of-district mailings their hearts
desire.
   Such flimflammery has proved too much for Roll Call's
editorialists, who normally make the best case possible for
Congress's outrageous behavior. They noted that the Thomas
reforms may have no practical limit on franking until the
next time districts are redrawn -- in the year 2002. Roll
Call warned that "If Congress proceeds on its current path,
perhaps term limits will have chased everyone now in the
House from office anyway." At the very least.