Defense Firms to Report Robust Quarter
   ---
   But Industry's Fear of Military
   Cuts Overshadows Comeback
   ----
   By Rick Wartzman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
"There is a great feeling of uncertainty" among arms
makers right now, says Alan Chase, chief of the Washington
office for General Dynamics Corp. "So much has happened so
rapidly in the world that there's no real threat scenario out
there to pin a budget on." He says he believes the Bush
administration will "clearly articulate" a defense strategy
in due course, but "whether that's agreed to by Congress is a
whole other issue," given all the "domestic pressures out
there."
   Not surprisingly, such anxious feelings are overshadowing
the extraordinary comeback that the defense industry made
during 1991. Gary Reich, aerospace analyst at Shearson Lehman
Brothers Inc., points to a dozen companies he follows and
notes that nine of them should register year-to-year
increases in profitability for the fourth quarter.
   Among the gainers should be Boeing Co., Grumman Corp.,
Raytheon Co., E-Systems Inc. and Loral Corp. Operating income
also should climb at Martin Marietta Corp., though the
company has indicated it will record a $39 million charge to
reflect the reorganization of its aluminum operations.
Earnings at Lockheed Corp., which has been burdened with a
higher tax rate in 1991, should be flat. Rockwell
International Corp. and United Technologies Corp., which has
said it will ring up restructuring charges, should have lower
earnings in the latest period.
   Perhaps the most pronounced turnarounds will come from
General Dynamics and McDonnell Douglas Corp., the nation's
two biggest military contractors. Both companies had net
losses in the fourth quarter of 1990, after taking huge
writeoffs to deal with troubled Pentagon programs. But in
1991, they cut costs, lowered debt and improved cash flow.
   The fourth quarter at McDonnell Douglas should mark
"another solid performance" for the St. Louis company, says
Herbert Lanese, chief financial officer. He says that
McDonnell Douglas has put many of its troubles behind it,
citing, for example, a recent decision by the Air Force to
agree to reschedule a troubled laser-system subcontract.
While that doesn't have direct financial ramifications, "it's
another cloud that has drifted away," Mr. Lanese says.
   There are still potential sore spots, including the C-17
military cargo-plane program, that could trigger large
write-downs later on. The Pentagon recently raised its
official estimate of how much McDonnell Douglas will exceed
the cost ceiling on its C-17 contract, to $850 million from
$700 million. The action means the government has reduced its
progress payments to the company. (McDonnell Douglas,
figuring it will recover claims from the government, still
maintains it will break even on the pact.)
   But all in all, McDonnell Douglas has made great strides.
On the commercial front, the company delivered 174 airliners
in 1991 -- the most since 1969. Separately, the company has
said it is likely to report a one-time gain in the fourth
quarter because of the settlement of a tax dispute with the
Internal Revenue Service.
   Meanwhile, General Dynamics also has trumpeted its return
to profitability, and it is upbeat about its immediate
prospects. During a recent briefing for analysts, company
officials indicated that the profit accrual rate on several
programs, including the F-16 fighter and SSN-688 submarine,
is likely to be raised during the first quarter of 1992.
Also, the company said it expects to book a gain in the 1991
fourth quarter to reflect the downward adjustment of about
$100 million to the product-liability reserve at its Cessna
business-jet division, which is on the block.
   Overall, the industry's present showing "is very
impressive," says Shearson Lehman's Mr. Reich. "The problem
is what we're looking at in the future."
   The best example of this dichotomy may be at Northrop
Corp., which has gone a long way in ironing out its cost and
schedule problems on a number of defense programs. In fact,
the Los Angeles company said it should show about a $26
million gain in the fourth quarter to reflect lower
anticipated expenses on the B-2 Stealth bomber project. But
it is the B-2 program, maybe more than any other, that stands
to be slashed by the Bush administration as it bows to
political reality.
   Of course, every Pentagon supplier is trying to make the
case that it is going to be one of the survivors during the
lean years ahead. Executives say that while the industry is
bound to consolidate some, it's probable that only a few
contractors will actually wither and die. "A lot of people
are hanging black crepe around all defense companies," says
Daniel Tellep, Lockheed's chairman. "But there are lots of
countervailing forces."
   The tricky thing for investors is to figure out which
aerospace companies will make it and which won't. Some
suggest that the easiest thing to do is simply look to
manufacturers that obtain a substantial portion of their
revenues from commercial markets. While these concerns have
had a rough 1991, they're likely to find themselves in the
best position to gain ground when the economy picks up.
   For the fourth quarter, "military companies are still
going to show better numbers" than those with large
commercial operations, says Michael Rosen, of Smith Barney,
Harris Upham  Co. But in 1992, he predicts, "we should see a
rotation in the group." Among his favorite picks: diversified
United Technologies.