Technology & Health:
   AT&T Unveils
   Plans for Selling
   $1,499 Videophone
   ----
   By John J. Keller
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
AT&T said it will sell its VideoPhone 2500 for $1,499
through its phone centers and retailers by mid-summer, or
rent the phone to customers for $30 a day. Calls using the
equipment will be billed at regular telephone rates.
   The VideoPhone contains an integrated camera and
three-inch-square video screen and is plugged into a wall
socket just like a regular telephone. Because of regular
phone lines' limited transmission capacity, the full-color
pictures are slightly grainy and move at the rate of 10
frames per second, less than full-motion video.
   "Our objective is to get videophones into the hands of
millions of people within 12 to 18 months," says Kenneth
Bertaccini, president of AT&T Consumer Products. That could
be difficult given the phone's price -- you'd need two to
make a connection -- and the current economic slump.
   "Our surveys of the residential market show 24% of
consumers would want a phone that transmits still-frame
photos," said Berge Ayvazian, vice president of research at
the Yankee Group, Boston. "Problem is, the most they're
willing to pay is $250 . . . {even} for yuppies with small
kids who want to call their grandparents."
   AT&T also faces a wave of competitors. Japan's Hitachi
Ltd. is marketing a phone that works over a special
integrated voice and data network that only corporations
currently use. Other Japanese rivals in the phone business
are expected to begin selling phones similar to Hitachi's
this year. Among the U.S. suppliers, Comtech Labs Inc., Palo
Alto, Calif., is preparing to sell a videophone for the
consumer market. PictureTel Corp., a Peabody, Mass., maker of
video-conferencing systems, is testing a device with
International Business Machines Corp. that turns a personal
computer into a desktop phone that delivers pictures of the
caller.
   For now, AT&T, the dominant supplier of consumer phones,
is trying to get a jump on its rivals in the videophone
market. Stephen M. Clemente, general manager of videophones
for AT&T, said the company conducted "extensive" market
research in the last two years, bringing "hundreds,
thousands" of customers to AT&T offices to try out the phones
and asking the customers how much they'd be willing to spend
on such equipment.
   Already a big supplier of video-conferencing services to
corporations, AT&T also plans to upgrade the office systems
it sells to include videophones for the desktop. Robert M.
Kavner, group executive for AT&T Communication Products, said
that AT&T's public payphones will offer videophone service
for a small charge over the regular price of the call.
   The new phone is the result of two years of development
work by AT&T units, including Bell Laboratories and
Compression Labs Inc., which makes the video-compression
electronics.
   During a call, the VideoPhone's camera captures the moving
image of the caller. An electronic "codec" turns the video
picture into digital signals and compresses these signals,
sending them to a microprocessor. The processor then shoots
the signals through a modem that transmits the image on the
same channel as the voice part of the call. The image, which
travels at the rate of 19,200 bits per second, doesn't move
like a television image because today's phone lines lack the
transmission capacity.