Letters to the Editor:
   Gold Standard Has a Silver Lining
During the next 20 years an alliance of easy money and
silver-mining interests passed several pieces of legislation
in order to increase the monetary role of silver. Their
efforts culminated in 1890 with the Sherman Silver Purchase
Act, which mandated the coining of 4.5 million ounces of
silver per month, and provided that these coins, or notes
collateralized by them, were to enjoy full legal-tender
status.
   The cumulative effect of the mandated coining of silver
would have been to put the country back onto a bi-metallic
standard. And, since the U.S. significantly overvalued
silver, it precipitated a gradual replacement of the
Treasury's gold reserves by silver reserves. In 1893, these
gold reserves had fallen to half their 1890 level.
   In 1893, amid a financial panic due to mounting concern
for the country's monetary standard, President Cleveland
called an extraordinary session of Congress to repeal the
Sherman Silver Purchase Act, and commit the U.S. to gold.
Following repeal of the act, the Treasury was able to float a
bond issue to restore its gold reserve.
   The lesson of this episode in monetary history isn't that
gold should be considered at best a quaint anachronism and at
worst a barbaric relic. Rather, it is how badly governments
can manage money, whether based on paper or on one or more
commodities, leaving all of us who contract in terms of money
at risk.
   Clifford F. Thies
   Associate Professor of Economics and Finance
   University of Baltimore
   Baltimore, Md.
   ---
   Mr. Lewis is dreaming a bit himself when he dismisses the
growing number of influential people who are calling for a
return to the Gold Standard as being motivated by mere
"nostalgia." It is not the good old days they are yearning to
bring back; it is the bright new future they are hoping to
build on a foundation of honest money.
   The chief reason for going on a gold standard is to ensure
stable purchasing power so that individuals can engage in
economic activities -- buying, selling, saving or investing
-- without having to worry about government manipulation of
the currency. In the absence of monetary discipline imposed
by gold, governments are irresistibly tempted not only to
exploit their own citizens, but to indulge in unfair foreign
trade practices by devaluing their currency to enhance
exports. As Edouard Balladur, France's former finance
minister, has observed: "The world suffers from the lack of a
true international monetary system, one with built-in . . .
constraints independent of the will of governments."
   To demean proponents of a gold standard as reactionary
"gold bugs" is to ignore the moral dimension of sound money.
As Jack Kemp has publicly stated, "People trade with each
other . . . because they believe they will not be defrauded
by a change in the currency." It is not the gold itself that
is important, but the commitment to monetary integrity it
represents, just as it is not the stone tablets but rather
the Ten Commandments inscribed on them that furnish the
framework for social justice. To focus on the medium is to
miss the message.
   Judy Shelton
   Senior Research Fellow
   Hoover Institution
   Stanford, Calif.
   ---
   Mr. Lewis says the gold standard was "based on the ability
of the Bank of England to be an active manager of the
system." That is not so. Britain was on the gold standard
from the early 1700s, but the Bank of England did not acquire
full central-banking powers until 1844, and refused to
acknowledge central banking responsibilities until 1890. In
"Lombard Street" (1873), the book that crystallized the idea
of central banking, the English economist Walter Bagehot
severely criticized the bank's bungling monetary policy.
   Mr. Lewis's claim that "active government intervention in
the gold markets was a sina qua non of the system's
operation" is equally incorrect. Until World War I, most
nations had competitive private bank note issue rather than
central banking. (See, for instance, "A History of Modern
Banks of Issue," by Charles Conant.) Government intervention
occurred, but it was contrary to the spirit of competitive
issue systems and usually created trouble. The U.S. was among
the worst offenders. The 1890 gold crisis that Mr. Lewis
mentions is a case in point. The crisis occurred because
people feared that Congress would change the reserve backing
for government currency, which circulated alongside privately
issued bank notes.
   During and after World War I, the gold standard became
government-managed. It was precisely at that point that the
gold standard began to suffer serious problems.
   Kurt Schuler
   Arlington, Va.