Who's News:
   Cypress Minerals
   Chief Retires After
   Less Than 1 Year
   ----
   By Marj Charlier
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Cyprus's Chairman Calvin A. Campbell Jr. will assume the
presidency until the board appoints a successor, the company
said. The board will meet next week. Mr. Campbell owns
Goodman Equipment Co., a mining-equipment manufacturer, and
has been on the Cyrpus board since 1985. He was elected
chairman in 1991.
   In a telephone interview, Mr. Campbell said that Mr. Stone
had been talking about retirement for some time, and had a
program in his computer for plotting his retirement strategy
and finances. Mr. Campbell said retirement was Mr. Stone's
decision.
   In discussing Cyprus's future, Mr. Campbell said he
expects the company will begin to "hit hard at operations and
hit hard at costs." Earlier this month, the company cited
higher costs as part of the reason 1991 earnings declined to
$42.7 million on revenue of $1.68 billion, from net income of
$111 million in 1990 on revenue of $1.87 billion.
   Mr. Stone was named chief executive officer last spring
when Kenneth J. Barr retired at Cyprus's mandatory retirement
age of 65. Mr. Stone had been named president, also
succeeding Mr. Barr, in May 1990. He had been with Cyprus
since 1978, running several of the company's operations and
serving for a time as chief financial officer.
   Cyprus has been struggling over the past two years with
rising costs and some troubled operations. Ore grade has been
declining at its copper mines and the company was having
problems with its smelter at Miami, Ariz., which it planned
to shut down this spring for rebuilding. A fire at the
smelter in November forced it to close early, and that will
reduce 1992 earnings, Mr. Stone said two weeks ago.
   In addition, poor performance at a couple of acquisitions,
including the Kanawah coal mine in the East and Tonapah
molybdenum mine in the West, has plagued the company over the
past couple of years. Cyprus wrote down its investment in the
two operations in 1990, taking write-offs of $63.2 million.
"Perhaps Tonopah and Kanawah wouldn't have happened if a more
thorough analysis had been done" before they were purchased,
Mr. Campbell said yesterday. "Proper controls have to be put
in place and never done away with."