Marketing  Media:
   Tele-Communications Inc. Agrees to Sell
   United Artists to Group for $680 Million
   ----
   By Mark Robichaux and Randall Smith
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
According to Securities Data Co., the transaction is the
largest leveraged buyout announced since July, when a group
led by Blackstone Group proposed an acquisition, since
completed, of Six Flags Corp. for $710 million.
   The United Artists deal also is one of the largest
investments to be financed by Merrill's $1.5 billion buy-out
fund, which has invested about half its assets in 10
acquisitions since its formation in 1988. According to one
person close to Merrill Lynch, financing for the acquisition
will include more than $100 million in equity from the fund,
$92.5 million in preferred stock to be held by TCI, bank debt
of $275 million to $300 million, and senior notes of $125
million to $150 million to be sold privately.
   The sale rids cable-television giant Tele-Communications
Inc. of a business in which it has demonstrated little
interest. Tele-Communications acquired 54% of United Artists,
which also included cable systems, in the mid-1980s, and
acquired the remaining 46% last November for $1.1 billion in
stock and cash.
   While eager to keep the cable properties,
Tele-Communications has long been expected to sell the
theater chain. Other than Mr. Blair, there haven't been any
seriously interested buyers, according to people familiar
with the company. Theater chains are no longer selling at the
multiples they fetched in the 1980s, and United Artists'
properties aren't ranked among the highest-quality, modern
theaters in the industry.
   Yesterday, in national, over-the-counter trading,
Tele-Communications shares closed at $16.50, up 50 cents, on
volume of almost 1.9 million shares.
   Mr. Blair said the parties would try to close the
transaction, which is subject to third-party considerations,
by March 31.
   He headed United Artists Entertainment from 1987 until
Dec. 2, when TeleCommunications acquired the remaining stake
in the company. Both companies are based in Englewood, Colo.
   The theater chain has screens in 502 locations throughout
the U.S. and Puerto Rico. Mr. Blair said that during the next
five years he plans to "dispose of" between 500 and 600
screens in geographically undesirable areas, and to add about
400 screens in other locations.
   "We're going to spend a lot more time thinking where we
put our theaters and how we design them," said Mr. Blair. "We
also have some good ideas about audio systems for the
theaters."
   "I'd classify this as a minor positive for TCI," said Ken
Goldman, an analyst with Bear Stearns  Co. "TCI never
considered this to be a strategic asset. This just simplifies
the company further."
   "The price is in line with what people in the theater
business would call reasonable," said John S. Reidy, a media
analyst with Smith Barney Harris Upham  Co. "It looks like a
fair deal for both parties."