PERSONAL TECHNOLOGY
   ----
   By Walter S. Mossberg
Some people would argue that these 10-ounce models were
little enough to tote in a pocket, and that's obviously a
subjective matter. But to me, they were still a bit too
bulky. Not so the new Motorola entry.
   Recently, I volunteered to borrow a MicroTac Lite for a
month, becoming a high-tech pioneer to better serve the
reader. Also, it's fun to use a new toy for a while without
paying for it.
   This is a cutting-edge product, not a mainstream consumer
item. It's worth a close look mainly because it's the first
entry in a new category of very small phones. But it's still
way too expensive for most people and businesses. Depending
on how it's marketed by local cellular phone companies,
Motorola estimates it costs $1,500 to $2,500. In contrast,
most other portable phones are well under $1,000.
   The phone's price will almost certainly tumble, however,
as competitors introduce phones similar in size, or even
smaller. Japanese companies, including electronics giant
Fujitsu, are said to be hot on Motorola's trail with small
phones that could be introduced this year.
   The new Motorola phone is strikingly small: 5 1/4 inches
long, less than 2 1/2 inches wide and only one inch thick
with the standard, light-duty battery. If you laid it flat on
this newspaper, and positioned it at the upper-left-hand
corner of this article, it would cover only about half of the
article's width and would extend only about two-thirds of the
way to the fold in the newspaper.
   The MicroTac Lite, made of molded black plastic, looks a
lot like its 1989 predecessor, the original MicroTac, which
broke the one-pound barrier. Both models achieve some of
their compactness with a hinged design, in which the
mouthpiece folds up to cover the dialing keypad when the
phone isn't in use.
   The phone's antenna retracts nearly all the way into the
phone's tiny body. The back of the unit is occupied by the
battery, which bulges at the center to form a shape that fits
well in the palm of the hand.
   The MicroTac Lite seems too, well, light to be a serious
electronic gadget. Yet in my month of testing, it proved very
sturdy, though I deliberately treated it roughly. I took it
everywhere -- in and out of various garments, bags and
briefcases, cars, trains and planes. My only reservation on
the design is that the flip-down mouthpiece is so thin it
seems possible to snag it and bend it backward till it snaps.
   I found the clarity of calls generally good, though the
MicroTac Lite suffers from the same shortcomings as other
cellular phones -- which are essentially radios that must be
near a transmitter to work well. The phone also offers a host
of automated dialing and security features, but the only real
reason to buy it is its size -- and thus convenience.
   This came in handy when a storm threatened to cancel my
flight home from a small airport, stranding me overnight. I
wanted to make a local hotel reservation, but the few pay
phones were mobbed and I didn't want to lose my place in a
long ticket-counter line. So I whipped out the MicroTac Lite
and made the call right there. It took two tries and cost a
bundle, but it worked.
   The phone's small size imposes limits, however. Its slim
standard battery permits just 45 minutes worth of calls
before it must be recharged (which took an hour or less with
the recharger included with my phone). Motorola offers two
alternative batteries, which increase talk time to 70 or 150
minutes, but also increase the phone's weight and thickness.
   The little phone also offers only a cramped display and
keypad that make dialing and programming a bit clumsy. It can
memorize by name the people you call most often. But I found
that entering these names was about as difficult as
programming a VCR, requiring multiple presses of small
buttons in complicated sequences. (Sample instruction: "Press
RCL and the two-digit location number. . . . Press FCN,
NAME/MENU, 1, 1, STO.") As a result, I never could make much
use of the memory features.
   Still, I liked using the MicroTac Lite, for its sheer
convenience, and I missed it after I sent it back.
   A final thought: The advent of the true pocket phone
carries one great danger. Because it's so easy to carry, it
will tempt you to act like a jerk by making calls in
restaurants and meetings and other places where it can really
bother others. There are enough such rude people already, so
if you buy a new little phone, please don't join them.