FDA Review of Dow Corning Documents
   Led to Call for Moratorium on Implants
   ----
   By Bruce Ingersoll
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Before reading the documents, Dr. Kessler had been leaning
toward adopting the recommendation of an FDA advisory panel
that -- without having access to the documents -- voted in
November for keeping silicone implants on the market. But to
the distress of many women with implants, Dr. Kessler last
Monday called for a moratorium on the sale and use of
silicone implants. He said the FDA didn't know enough to
vouch for their safety.
   Last week, according to FDA officials, the agency also
sent investigators to the company's Dow Corning Wright plant
in Hemlock, Mich., to start going through corporate files for
any evidence that the problems and practices of the past
might have continued into the 1990s. The investigators are to
report back before the advisory panel meets in mid-February
to consider, among other things, medical reports possibly
linking silicone to immune-system disorders and other
complications. There have been no broad-based medical studies
linking silicone to such problems. Moreover, only a tiny
proportion of women with implants have developed immune
disorders.
   Rep. Ted Weiss, (D., N.Y.), also is pressing for a Justice
Department investigation. Dow Corning officials vehemently
deny any suggestion of corporate misconduct and contend that
the internal documents are being misconstrued. On health
questions, the documents "don't even come close to being
credible scientific evidence," says a spokeswoman for Dow
Corning, a joint venture of Dow Chemical Co. and Corning
Glass Works.
   The company's Silastic implants introduced in the
mid-1970s were "state-of-the-art products," asserts Robert
Rylee, head of Dow Corning's health care businesses. "We're
confident they met the known requirements for safety and
efficacy."
   Dow Corning brought the implants to market in a different
regulatory environment. It wasn't until 1976 that Congress
empowered the FDA to regulate medical devices, and not until
last summer were manufacturers required to submit data
showing breast implants to be safe.
   The documents Dr. Kessler read were produced in a Michigan
case and a recent case in which a federal jury in San
Francisco awarded $7.3 million to a woman whose implant burst
and who says she developed a malady called mixed connective
tissue disease as a result. Dow Corning says the woman had
the disorder before receiving the implants, and it plans to
appeal. The San Francisco Examiner was the first newspaper to
report on the contents of many documents from the San
Francisco case.
   In January 1975, according to court documents, Dow Corning
was in a great rush to develop a new silicone gel as well as
a new line of breast implants. Two upstart companies were
capturing market share with newer fluid-gel implants that had
a more natural feel. And Congress, in writing legislation,
was likely to exempt medical devices already on the market
from safety tests.
   "We had a crash program," says Thomas Talcott, then a
materials engineer for the company. "Dow Corning didn't have
a soft-gel product on the market . . . We wanted to beat the
device legislation so that our products would be
`grandfathered.'"
   Top management gave a task force only five months to do
two years of research-and-development work, according to
minutes of the task force's Jan. 22 and Jan. 24, 1975,
meetings. It set July of that year as the launch date for the
company's first "flo-gel" product, dubbed the "Silastic
low-profile round implant."
   On Jan. 23, researchers began a 90-day study of flo-gel's
effects on rabbits, and subsequently began a four-week monkey
study. But even before preliminary results were in, the
marketing department began distributing samples of the new
implant to plastic surgeons for a clinical trial in humans.
By Feb. 3, according to memos, surgeons were inserting it in
women.
   Over the next month, the clinical trial expanded rapidly.
"Eight pair of sterile mammaries are in patients," according
to task force minutes of March 7.
   By this time, the monkey study was concluded with somewhat
disconcerting results, according to memos. Injected silicone
was found to "migrate," or spread, to the lymph nodes of
three monkeys. Meanwhile, a researcher had reported finding
an "inflammatory reaction" in rabbits, which he believed was
caused by the injection needle, rather than the gel itself.
But the study was halted at 80 days. The marketing department
wanted to have the report in time to "take advantage of
regional {sales} meetings and an aesthetic {surgeons'}
meeting to get word out and start taking orders," according
to minutes of March 21.
   Dow Corning's Mr. Rylee says the company's decision to
rush research and development was entirely justified. "It
wasn't like we were starting from ground zero with brand X,"
he says. "The purpose of the clinical {trial} was to
ascertain efficacy," Mr. Rylee says. "The presumption of
safety was already there because of the long history of
silicone use in humans."
   According to documents, Dow Corning's production
department began churning out thousands of the new-model
implants even before technicians had resolved a key technical
question: Will the new gel "bleed," or leak, through the
rubberized shell at an excessive rate? On May 16, the task
force contemplated reformulating the new gel. But the company
had 10,000 pounds of flo-gel "ready to go," according to the
meeting minutes. And so it was decided that a memo should be
sent that day to the field, giving salesmen tips on how to
wash off "oily" demonstration models before calling on
surgeons.
   Frank Woodside, an attorney for Dow Corning, says he
doesn't believe there was any documentation that the Silastic
flo-gel model leaked excessively. "I happen to think it was a
marketing concern, as opposed to scientific concern," he
says. But Mr. Talcott says there was evidence of excessive
bleeding at the time. "I tried to warn them that the gel was
too fluid, but I was squelched," says the Laguna Niguel,
Calif., consultant, who resigned in protest.
   By May 1976, there were complaints about implants slipping
out of place and preventing the healing of surgical sutures,
according to a salesman's report. He said a St. Petersburg,
Fla., plastic surgeon "postulated" that "greasy implants"
were to blame. Dow Corning's Mr. Rylee insists that the
company would have acted on any such complaints.
   In 1983, questions about the safety of Dow Corning's
silicone gels continued to come up. "To our embarrassment, we
were unable to {cite} more than tissue culture and heavy
metals analyses," James Matherly, a quality control manager,
said in a Sept. 23 memo. "Furthermore, our product literature
on these gels imply that safety testing to qualify them as
implant materials does exist."
   Mr. Matherly referred to a memo by scientist Bill Boley,
who wrote that by extrapolating from 1968 research work done
by Industrial Biotest Labs and some other animal tests, "it
is possible to infer that our two major commercial gels for
implants are safe for long-term implant." Dow Corning's Mr.
Rylee says that Mr. Matherly wasn't aware of studies beyond
the ones he cited.