Politics  Policy -- Campaign '92:
   Tsongas Labels Himself a `Pro-Business Liberal,'
   But Rivals Question His Private-Sector Expertise
   ----
   By Jill Abramson and David Rogers
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
The arrangement illustrates one of the unique aspects of
the Tsongas campaign. The former Massachusetts senator
campaigns as a "pro-business liberal" and frequently mentions
his experiences in the private sector. He cites six years of
hands-on business experience as instrumental in forming the
"economic realism" that has propelled him to near
front-runner status in New Hampshire.
   Mr. Tsongas did what many former lawmakers do -- he joined
corporate boards and worked as a lawyer lobbyist. As a
result, he has taken some hits from opponents who say his
claims to private-sector experience are overblown. "He isn't
making things," says Nebraska Sen. Bob Kerrey, who ran a
restaurant chain. "He's making things happen."
   Mr. Tsongas acknowledges that "lawyers and negotiators
exist off somebody else's capacity to be viable. Lawyers
dealing with lawyers is like everybody serving hamburgers."
   But he also argues that he has taken business risks in his
real-estate investments. "You learn a lot about risk in
Massachusetts real estate."
   Mr. Tsongas has frankly stated that when he left the
Senate in 1984, after his cancer was diagnosed, his goal was
to make money in order to safeguard his young family's
financial security. As a $360 an hour lawyer-lobbyist, Mr.
Tsongas realized that goal. He served on eight corporate
boards, including Boston Edison Co. and Wang Laboratories
Inc., bringing him more than $100,000 in directors' fees in
1990. And his partnership draw at Foley Hoag, meanwhile,
exceeded $200,000 that year.
   Mr. Tsongas's clients ranged from special-interest groups,
such as the American Insurance Association and the National
Venture Capital Association, to gas-pipeline companies and
real-estate developers. "He wouldn't work for any client or
purpose he didn't feel good about," says Dennis Kanin, a
Foley Hoag partner who is Mr. Tsongas's longtime political
associate and campaign manager. Mr. Kanin says Foley Hoag
turned down the opportunity to represent a foreign dictator
because Mr. Tsongas objected to the representation. As for
Drexel, Mr. Kanin says that in 1985, the year he and Mr.
Tsongas represented the firm, there wasn't any hint of the
troubles to come.
   And indeed, the former senator tended to represent clients
whose positions dovetailed with his own, previously
established positions. A case in point is the National
Venture Capital Association, which champions cutting the
capital-gains tax. The association hired Mr. Tsongas a few
years ago to help "reach out to Democrats," according to
another lobbyist who represents the group. Reducing the
capital-gains tax on long-term investments is a cornerstone
of Mr. Tsongas's "A Call to Economic Arms," his 85-page
printed platform. When he quit the Senate in 1984, Mr.
Tsongas cited his failure to support a cut in the
capital-gains tax as one of the biggest mistakes he made in
Congress.
   But in other cases, Mr. Tsongas has represented clients
whose positions are less clearly in line with his own. As a
senator, he enjoyed a strong reputation as an
environmentalist. He served on the Senate Energy and Natural
Resources Committee, where he was one of the architects of
the Alaska Lands Act. But as a lawyer-lobbyist, he has agreed
to represent several companies who have come to him with
major environmental problems, hoping to gain from his
environmentalist credentials.
   In such instances, Mr. Tsongas insists that everyone --
himself, his client and the environment -- came out ahead
because of his involvement. He proudly points to his work on
behalf of the Iroquois pipeline, which just began delivering
Canadian natural gas to the Northeast after completion of a
$655 million pipeline.
   When the Iroquois pipeline was first proposed in 1986,
some environmentalists and local residents along the pipeline
route were ardently opposed to the project, particularly in
scenic Dutchess County, N.Y., and negative stories about the
project appeared in several newspapers. Mr. Tsongas set up
meetings with newspaper editorial boards and helped turn the
coverage around, according to officials associated with the
project.
   "It was helpful to have someone of Paul's reputation,"
says Gary Davis of Iroquois Gas Transmission System, a
consortium based in Connecticut. Mr. Tsongas also helped
persuade the pipeline owners to set up a $10 million fund to
help the 60 communities along the pipeline route purchase
additional public lands or enhance existing public
facilities. Mr. Davis says the fund helped blunt
environmental opposition to the project, and Mr. Tsongas
includes the pipeline in a listing of his environmental
achievements.
   During an appearance this week at a New Hampshire landfill
and recycling center, Mr. Tsongas talked about environmental
innovations at another company with which he is associated,
Flexible Environmental Systems Inc., Newton, Mass. Mr.
Tsongas is chairman of the company and owns about 10% of its
stock. Flexible hopes to recycle waste on a barge in the
Atlantic Ocean, according to the company's founder, Udi Saly.
But the company's recycling idea draws mostly negative
reviews from environmentalists who worry that an offshore
processing facility might damage the marine environment. "We
have tended to look askance," says Priscilla Chapman,
executive director of the New England Sierra Club in Boston.
   Mr. Tsongas has already drawn some flak from
environmentalists for serving on the board of Boston Edison,
a New England utility. At Dartmouth College, an environmental
activist drew a sharp response from the candidate when he
pressed Mr. Tsongas on potentially carcinogenic emissions at
one of the utility's plants. Mr. Tsongas, who has passed his
fifth year of recovery from cancer following a painful
bone-marrow transplant, said he didn't need any lectures on
cancer from someone who had never had the disease.
   Just as Mr. Tsongas's capital-gains and energy stands
coincide with his clients' interests, so do some of his
health-care proposals. His "managed competition" health plan
is looked on far more favorably by the medical and insurance
establishments than some of the other Democratic candidates'
plans for government-subsidized national health insurance,
which would put many private insurance companies out of
business.
   Mr. Tsongas was retained by the American Insurance
Association in November 1989. While most of his work has
related to environmental issues, such as Superfund liability,
the members of the insurance group also have a vital stake in
any health-care legislation. The membership includes such
insurance giants as Aetna Life  Casualty Co., Cigna Corp.,
Travelers Insurance Co. and Hartford Life Insurance Co., all
of whom would benefit from Mr. Tsongas's health proposals.
   Mr. Tsongas developed his health plan in early 1991, after
he was retained by the association. But the former senator
says his position wasn't influenced by his client
relationship with the insurance group.
   Ironically, when Mr. Tsongas was in Congress he supported
proposals sponsored by his Massachusetts colleague, Sen.
Edward Kennedy, to create a national health-insurance system.
"He was a 33-year-old congressman," explains Steve Cohen, Mr.
Tsongas's current-issues director. "When you come to
Washington you have an exaggerated sense of what government
can do well. . . . After having been in Washington 10 years,
he believes that the private sector is a lot more efficient."
   Mr. Tsongas isn't doing any legal work or lobbying these
days, although he is still being paid by the law firm for
clients he attracted to Foley Hoag.