Technology:
   Micron to Quit
   Sematech Group,
   Cites Differences
   ----
   By Ken Yamada
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
However, Sematech said it is in "serious discussion" with
three other companies, which it refused to identify, which
are considering membership in the group.
   Micron, a computer chip maker, said its decision to leave
the consortium in July wasn't based on its financial
standing, but rather its opposition to Sematech's policy of
giving cash grants to makers of computer manufacturing
equipment. The company said it had hoped the consortium would
focus more on ways to make advanced chips.
   Micron invested $2.4 million in Sematech in 1990 and
reported profit of $627,000, or two cents a share, in its
first quarter, ended Dec. 5, compared with a loss of $9.3
million, or 25 cents a share, a year ago.
   Micron's chairman and chief executive officer, Joseph
Parkinson, said he was sympathetic to the goals of Sematech,
but his company wasn't getting a "sufficient return on its
investment." Mr. Parkinson said that "Sematech has gotten off
the track of its original mission to develop the production
process."
   Harris Corp., Melbourne, Fla., said it is thinking about
leaving the consortium at the end of 1992, but hasn't reached
a decision. "We intend to participate in Sematech beyond
1992, provided that the benefits are commensurate with the
required investment," a spokesman said.
   A Sematech spokesman said that another company, which he
refused to identify, had also told the consortium that it
might quit. The departure of Micron, the spokesman said,
"while unfortunate, {is} certainly nothing to be alarmed
about."
   Several chip industry giants, including Texas Instruments
Inc. of Dallas, declared their continued support for
Sematech. A spokesman for Advanced Micro Devices Inc.,
Sunnyvale, Calif., said, "I don't think {the withdrawals} say
that Sematech has failed or has no future." After the
withdrawal of Micron, the consortium will have 11 member
companies.