Marketing  Media -- Advertising:
   Magazine Ad Pages Slumped 8.7%
   In 1991 and Outlook Stays Bleak
   ----
   By Joanne Lipman
The ad revenue picture, too, was dismal. According to the
bureau, revenue fell about 3% for the year. But industry
executives say the actual decline was far steeper and may
have been in the double digits. The reported figures are
based on stated ad rates that don't take into account the
widespread discounts in the magazine business.
   As bad as 1991 was, 1992 doesn't look much better, several
publishers said yesterday. A turnaround they had hoped for by
mid-year probably won't materialize at all, several said.
Most expect 1992 to show a marginal improvement from 1991, a
somber picture considering this year has the added boost of
Olympics and election dollars.
   If there's any good news, it's that "we're bumping along
the bottom" rather than sinking further, says Richard Smith,
editor in chief and president of Washington Post Co.'s
Newsweek, which saw 1991 pages fall by 15.2% and revenue sink
by 9.8%. "The bad news is, I haven't seen the takeoff yet."
Mr. Smith expects a "modest" increase in ad pages this year,
leading to "solid revenue gains."
   Jack Rehm, chief executive officer of Meredith Corp., has
stopped trying to predict an end to this ad slump. "Until we
see something positive happen in the economy -- maybe
consumer confidence has to return -- we aren't going to see
see much improvement. We're just going to have to accept
that," he says. Meredith publishes a dozen magazines
including Better Homes  Gardens (which expects flat or
slightly more ad pages for the first half) and Ladies' Home
Journal (which will be down).
   Time Warner also doesn't expect a turnaround soon, "maybe
not anytime this year," says Reginald K. Brack, chairman and
chief executive officer of Time Warner Publishing. "We're
assuming things will get better, but only marginally." The
company's fledgling Entertainment Weekly saw a 17% increase
in 1991 ad pages, but Sports Illustrated was off 9.5%, Life
was down 14%, Fortune was off 12% and Time was down 21%.
   Magazine executives like to point out that other media are
suffering as much as they are -- or more. For the first nine
months of 1991, for example, newspaper ad revenue plunged 23%
and network-TV revenue was off 7.1%, according to Leading
National Advertisers.
   And there are some rays of hope for magazines. At Time
Warner, Fortune magazine will show a 13% increase in ad pages
for the first quarter, and People's pages will hold about
even with the year-earlier period, according to Chris
Meigher, president of the company's New York magazine
division. Circulation, which contributes about half of total
revenue, with the other half coming from advertising, is also
showing some gains. For all of 1992, he predicts a very
slight increase in ad pages for the division's publications,
leading to an estimated 6.5% to 7% ad revenue gain.
   Yet both Time and Sports Illustrated are facing another
difficult period, with first-quarter ad pages at each
estimated to be down more than 10% from last year's depressed
levels. The culprit, Mr. Meigher says: a cutback by
automotive and tobacco advertisers.
   Last year's poor ad showing has led to a number of
casualties, including two just last week: Hearst Corp.'s
Connoisseur, which was folded into Town  Country, and New
York Woman, closed by American Express Co. unit, American
Express Publishing Corp. Considering the 1992 outlook, more
casualties are expected.
   Competition will be especially fierce in magazine
categories such as fashion and home furnishings that saw
precipitous ad declines in 1991. Among fashion magazines, for
example, Mirabella's ad pages declined by 16%, Harper's
Bazaar were off 26%, Vogue's off 15% and Elle's down 23%.
Among shelter magazines, Metropolitan Home's pages fell by
18%, and Architectural Digest's plunged 29%.
   ---
   YR's Management Changes
                                                                                                       

   Young  Rubicam Inc. announced top management changes that
will eliminate a layer of corporate management and put
Chairman Alex Kroll and President Peter Georgescu directly in
charge of the company's world-wide advertising business.
   The firm's regional and financial advertising directors
will now report directly to Mr. Georgescu. Previously, those
executives had reported to Joseph E. DeDeo, who was president
of the world-wide advertising unit. He was named vice
chairman of the holding company and worldwide creative
director for all YR units, including public relations,
direct marketing, sales promotion and advertising. A new
president of world-wide advertising won't be named, an agency
spokesman said.
   Those three executives will form an executive committee,
along with two other senior executives, aimed at improving
relations with the agency's largest global clients.
   Frank Anfield, president and chief executive of Young 
Rubicam's Canadian advertising unit, was named president of
Young  Rubicam, New York. Mr. Anfield replaces Tim Pollak.
Mr. Pollak is the world-wide director of client services, a
position an agency spokesman said he had held since June. Mr.
Anfield will report to John McGarry, president and chief
executive of the U.S. advertising unit, who now adds
responsibility for the Canadian unit and joins the executive
committee.
   William Power, chairman of YR sales promotion unit Cato
Johnson Worldwide, succeeds Mr. Anfield as head of the
Canadian unit. Jean-Paul Lafaye, co-chief executive of Cato
Johnson along with Mr. Power, now heads the unit from Paris.
   ---
   Newspaper Groups to Merge
                                                                                                       

   The American Newspaper Publishers Association, or ANPA,
the industry lobbying group, and the Newspaper Advertising
Bureau, or NAB, which promotes newspapers as an advertising
medium, said they will merge in July and form the American
Newspaper Association.
   The move is designed to help the beleaguered industry
speak with a single voice in Washington and on Madison
Avenue, the groups said in a joint statement. Cathleen Black,
president and chief executive officer of ANPA, will keep
those roles in the new association. Leonard P. Forman,
president of the NAB, will be the group's chief operating
officer.
   ---
   Ad Notes. . . .
                                                                                                       

   ACCOUNTS: Comerica Inc., Detroit, said it tapped W.B.
Doner  Co., Southfield, Mich., to handle the ad account of
the company that will result from its merger with
Manufacturers National Corp., Detroit. The size of the
account couldn't be determined. Doner has been Manufacturers'
agency for the past 10 years. Saatchi  Saatchi Co.'s
Campbell-Mithun-Esty, Minneapolis, had been Comerica's agency
for almost four years. . . . Earle Palmer Browne's Atlanta
office bested WPP Group's J. Walter Thompson, Atlanta, for
Signal Apparel Co.'s account, estimated at less than $5
million. The Chattanooga, Tenn., apparel company makes knit
and fleece sportswear and a line licensed from colleges and
the National Football League.
                                                                                                       

   CONTRACT: Fashion model Christy Turlington signed an
exclusive contract to appear in Maybelline Inc.'s make-up
advertising, according to agency Lintas:New York, a unit of
Interpublic Group.