Monsanto Doubles Liability Provision
   For Treating Toxic Waste to $245 Million
   ----
   By Scott McMurray
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Monsanto has been identified by the EPA as a "potentially
responsible party" at 80 Superfund sites around the country,
compared with 74 sites as of Dec. 31, 1990, its annual report
said.
   For 1991, Monsanto reported net income of $296 million, or
$2.33 a share, and sales of $8.86 billion.
   Other chemical companies also are setting aside more to
cover the cost of cleaning up after themselves. Du Pont Co.,
whose sales are more than four times Monsanto's, reported a
10% increase in its toxic waste liability to $426 million at
year-end 1991, compared with $387 million a year earlier,
according to the Wilmington, Del., company's annual report.
American Cyanamid Co., Wayne, N.J., increased its cleanup
liability 10% as well, to $230 million at year end 1991 from
$208.9 million a year earlier, its annual report said.
   Du Pont, Monsanto and American Cyanamid are the nation's
top toxic polluters, according to the latest available EPA
figures. Dow Chemical Co., while about twice Monsanto's size,
has an accrued liability earmarked for Superfund site cleanup
of only about $26 million, a spokesman for the Midland,
Mich., company said. Dow doesn't publish a comparable figure
in its annual report.
   Despite the sharply higher cleanup costs, "Monsanto's
liquidity and profitability in any one year will not be
materially affected" by these anticipated expenditures, the
report says. The other companies' reports offer shareholders
similar assurances.
   A. Nicholas Filippello, Monsanto's chief economist, said
in an interview that doubling the accrued liability for
cleanup costs mainly reflected Monsanto's internal analysis
of its expected environmental bill. It wasn't done in
response to regulatory actions or decisions against the
company, he added.
   Mr. Filippello declined to provide a figure for Monsanto's
actual expected waste cleanup costs for this year. Monsanto
said its actual cost last year for cleaning up waste sites
totaled $35 million, compared with $27 million in 1990.
   In addition to the Superfund and other waste sites, the
$245 million accrued cleanup figure includes the expected
cost of cleaning up four plants Monsanto plans to close.
Monsanto announced last summer that it intended to close the
plants as part of a broad restructuring plan.
   Monsanto may be hoping for some regulatory relief to cut
its cleanup costs, the annual report indicates. The
conclusion that accrued cleanup costs will have a negligible
impact on Monsanto's financial health is based in part on
"future developments in remediation technology and evolving
government policies toward evaluation of risks and benefits,"
the report says.