Enterprise:
   Most Statehouses Likely to Weigh Aid to Small Firms
   ---
   Surveys Find That Budget Crisis
   Fail to Discourage Plans for Action
   ----
   By Timothy D. Schellhardt
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
In another National Conference survey, state legislative
leaders also list efforts to develop state economies and
improve their business climates as 1992 priorities -- along
with the dominant issue: fragile budgets.
   "The economy's bad and, politically, state legislators
want to try to deal with that" in this election year, says
Jim Buente, a regional political director for the National
Federation of Independent Business, the largest
small-business trade group.
   Mr. Buente and others note that small-business owners
would benefit most from tax breaks -- or, at least, no
increase in taxes or business fees. Realizing that tight
budgets make state tax breaks unlikely, they welcome economic
development programs.
   Legislative leaders in several states already have
identified specific economic-development measures to push
this year. Alaska lawmakers, for example, say they are likely
to explore capital projects and loan programs to stimulate
and diversify the economy. Nevada legislators say they are
interested in broadening the state's business base beyond the
gaming industry, and are studying tax incentives to entice
new business.
   Arizona leaders favor measures to attract business and
expand in-state firms, and Missourians want to stimulate
their economy without eroding the current tax base. West
Virginians, meanwhile, want to improve the state
economic-development office while re-examining the tax
credits they now give various industries. Statehouse leaders
also want to figure out how to target industries that need
help, the survey says.
   Pennsylvania's legislative leaders say they will study how
to bolster the state business climate in the wake of last
year's $3 billion tax increase.
   States particularly hope to attract new business to rural
areas, the survey of legislators indicates. Some lawmakers
are looking to states such as North Carolina, whose Rural
Economic Development Center, a quasipublic organization
funded by the Legislature, has combined state general funds
with private-sector support.
   Among other things, the agency provides financing for
rural businesses, capitalizes a "micro-enterprise" loan fund
for fledgling concerns, provides capital for minority
businesses, and supports leadership-development efforts.
   While they are seeking economic development, lawmakers say
they are increasingly wary of just throwing dollars at
programs aimed at helping business and encouraging job
creation. Indeed, the latest survey of legislatures
underscores the intensifying debate begun in late 1990, as
economies slowed and state budget woes grew, over the
effectiveness of programs for economic growth.
   "The dilemma of the states' painful fiscal crunch and
their deep worries about global economic competition is
leading to the closest examination in more than a decade of
what constitutes effective state economic development,"
maintains Dan Pilcher, the National Conference's
economic-development specialist.
   A growing number of states are now examining how
development programs and services are delivered, and some
already have radically restructured their state programs.
Iowa, for instance, is encouraging several rural communities
to "cluster" to help woo new businesses to their whole areas.
According to Mr. Pilcher, at least four states -- Indiana,
Kansas, Oklahoma and Oregon -- have formed quasipublic
commissions to oversee economic-development efforts. Kentucky
will debate doing so this year.
   Oregon has set the pace. Last year, its Legislature
stopped directly providing economic-development services.
Instead, it works closely with the state's major industries,
notably wood products, on programs to help them enhance their
own competitiveness.
   Besides economic development, several other issues
affecting small businesses rank high on lawmakers' priority
lists this year. On the health-care front, at least 28 states
plan to consider programs to help small businesses provide
employee health insurance.
   New approaches to small-business health insurance are
likely to be addressed this year in California, Kentucky,
Maine, Michigan, Minnesota, New Jersey, North Carolina and
Wyoming, the National Conference survey suggests.
   The predominant employment issue facing state legislatures
again will be workers' compensation, whose costs have
skyrocketed in recent years. Lawmakers in a dozen states,
including Alaska, Colorado, Iowa, Louisiana, Maine, Michigan,
Ohio, Tennessee and Wyoming, say workers' compensation
coverage and benefits still represent their most important
labor issues.
   At least 21 states are slated to address the controversial
issue of requiring parental and family leave for employees.
The small-business community generally opposes such mandates,
considering them too costly, and it has successfully lobbied
state lawmakers against passage of bills requiring leaves.
But the issue continues to simmer as the number of families
with working-age adults at home shrinks and the problem of
caring for elderly family members expands.
   Doug Sacarto, director of the National Conference's State
Issues program, noted that one issue affecting small
businesses is losing steam: Fewer states are likely to
consider measures to help mature industries, including
plant-closing notification and mass-layoff retraining, he
says.