Marketing:
   Arts Groups Go After Corporate Sponsors
   With All the Brashness of the Big Top
   ----
   By Pamela Sebastian
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
On this particular night, Eli's the Place for Steak, a
popular Windy City hangout, has traded cheesecake for benefit
tickets; Lettuce Entertain You Enterprises Inc. is catering a
fete for local notables after the performance; and a VIP from
Tokyo's Fuji Television Network Inc., who is in town to plan
the circus's tour of Japan, is occupying a choice seat in the
audience.
   "We started out saying we were a cultural enterprise.
Everybody focused on `cultural,'" says Jean David, head of
marketing for Productions du Cirque du Soleil Inc. "Now we
say, `focus on enterprise.'"
   Corporate sponsorship of the arts isn't new; it took root
in the 1970s and flowered during the opulent 1980s. But in
the stripped-back 1990s, cultural groups have had to become
more aggressive and more sophisticated in their pursuit of
corporate support. "The `pot' is smaller," says Jane Breyer,
director of development for the San Francisco Ballet, "and
it's going to more people."
   The Business Committee for the Arts Inc., New York, says
that more than half the companies it talks to are cutting
back cash donations. But it says that all companies with
marketing sponsorships -- those funded mainly by a company's
advertising and promotion budget -- plan to step up activity.
   While pure corporate philanthropy often has invisible
strings attached, there's nothing subtle about marketing
money. Herbert Schiller, author of "Culture Inc." and
professor emeritus at the University of California at San
Diego, says the marketing focus "in a sense is more honest."
But he adds: "It's worth mentioning that those arts with
smaller audiences and smaller demographics are likely to be
left out."
   Many cultural groups are doing what they can to attract
corporate marketing money. The Philadelphia Ballet, which was
rescued from financial disaster only after a huge grass-roots
fund-raising campaign, now relies heavily on sponsorships.
The ballet sold individual performances of "The Nutcracker"
for $5,000 a night. In exchange, companies or individuals got
15 pairs of tickets, a half-page ad in the program and a
listing on all mailings and posters.
   Even the Laura Dean Dancers and Musicians wouldn't mind a
corporate partnership. "I'm not going to rename myself `the
Merrill Lynch Dancers and Musicians' or dance in the bank
lobby," says Ms. Dean in Manhattan. "But would I give a dance
class to their employees? Absolutely] Would I open rehearsals
to employees? Absolutely] I'd be honored if they picked me."
   And what about companies that donate services like food,
lodging or party space? What's in it for them? Plenty, says
the Rihga Royal in Manhattan. Since most fund-raising parties
for the arts involve corporations these days, a new hotel
like the Rihga gets to show off its facilities to "the
correct clientele," says Donald Blakesley, director of
marketing.
   After a cold call from the San Francisco Ballet, the Rihga
came through with a black tie opening-night reception for 350
in Manhattan late last year. The Rihga marketing staff worked
the room while the tony crowd celebrated through the wee
hours. "We were looking at potential {Christmas} parties,"
says Cathy Storm, the former head of marketing.
   There are risks in tying nonprofit activities to marketing
sponsorships. The Internal Revenue Service recently warned
organizers of two college bowl games that they must pay taxes
on millions of dollars in sponsor fees. And while arts
sponsorships generally don't involve nearly as much money,
cultural groups worry the IRS may squeeze them, too. "It
could spell trouble," says Andrew Ben-Ami, a tax manager in
the not-for-profit services group of accountants Coopers 
Lybrand in New York.
   Some foes of corporate arts funding, like New York artist
Hans Haacke, may be ready to say "I told you so." Mr. Haacke
criticized sponsorships in his mixed-media sculptures "The
Road to Profits Is Paved With Culture" and "MetroMobilitan,"
on the relationship of New York's Metropolitan Museum and
patron Mobil Corp. In Mr. Haacke's view, there are always
strings attached to gift dollars. "What's surprising is that
companies have decided they need proof -- not just a
political and P.R. effect -- but proof that sponsorship sells
products," he says.
   Nowadays, many arts groups show up at the corporate door
with that proof in hand. Cirque du Soleil caught on to the
concept early. Its business-plan presentation now includes a
16-page document that spells out (in English and French) the
"gets" and "won't gets" of sponsorship: It forbids ad banners
in the tent; protects the visibility of the lead sponsor and
specifies how many tickets a patron is due.
   In 1991, only about $675,000 of Cirque's $22 million
budget came from corporate cash sponsorships. But the budget
numbers don't reflect the money the circus saved through
barter and promotional sponsorships. For instance, Cirque
spent $70,000 on lodging last year -- not the $1.25 million
its rooms would have cost without all its discounts -- thanks
to deals with hotels like Marriott Corp.
   Cirque routinely surveys audiences for demographic fodder
to entice corporate marketing departments. American Telephone
 Telegraph Co. decided to sign on as presenting sponsor for
Cirque's 1992 Washington, D.C., performances only after
Cirque showed that 60% of its ticketholders last year made
international telephone calls -- more than three times the
norm. A presenting sponsor can expect to pay from $500,000 to
more than $1 million in combined cash and marketing support.
   But ATT is only one of Cirque's recent plums. The Fuji
Television deal for a seven-city tour of Japan is laced with
programming and promotional TV tie-ins valued at $40 million.
And Cirque recently agreed to establish a U.S. home base at a
new Mirage Resorts Inc. hotel planned for Las Vegas.
   Cirque has good marketability, says David Resnicow, head
of Arts  Communications Counselors, a division of Ruder
Finn, a New York public relations firm. "Every sponsorship
has a market value," he argues, and opera, for instance, can
be a hard sell. Of Cirque, he says, "I wouldn't consider them
high culture. But I wouldn't consider them Ringling Bros.
either. They `straddle,' and that's why they appeal."
   But as talented as it is at recruiting sponsors, Cirque is
about to face its biggest challenge. The Fuji Television deal
will require a super-sized rendition of what is now an
intimate show designed for a tent that can seat a maximum of
2,500 people.
   Already there have been major skirmishes. The Big Top is
out, and giant auditoriums that can hold up to 10,000 paying
customers are in. The troupe of 45 performers will have to be
doubled for more elaborate performances. But Cirque fought to
keep live music rather than the taped tunes pushed by Dan
Yoshida, Fuji TV's executive in charge of special events.
   As it is, Mr. Yoshida is worried. Production costs are so
high, he says, he would have to charge $120 to $130 a ticket
if it weren't for the promotion value the TV network will get
from the live performances plus programming. A good 10% of
the Japanese tour costs will come directly from Fuji's
marketing department, and any losses will be chalked up to
promotional expenses.
   Cirque's founder, the former firebreather Guy Laliberte,
knows the pitfalls. Which is tougher -- eating fire or
running the show? "You can get burned doing both," he says.