Law:
   Supreme Court Set to Rule in Tax Cases
   That Carry Big Consequences for States
   ----
   By Paul M. Barrett
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Virginia, home to the country's largest federal-retiree
population, could by itself be forced to cough up some $440
million.
   The good news for states is that while the Supreme Court
might take away a lot in individual income taxes, it could
give back much more in consumer taxes. The justices have
heard arguments in a case concerning whether states may force
out-of-state mail-order companies and other direct marketers
to collect "use" taxes on goods purchased by in-state
customers.
   The tax cases "sound technical -- a lot of people ignore
them -- but there's a lot of money at stake," observes Mark
Evans, a Washington lawyer who specializes in the area. The
states estimate that they are currently losing $2 billion
annually because direct marketers refuse to collect use
taxes, which are functionally equivalent to sales taxes
collected by in-state retailers.
   Virginia and 18 other states for years have discriminated
between retired state civil servants, whose pensions are
partly or entirely exempt from state taxes, and federal
retirees, whom the states view as a dependable source of
income-tax revenue. But in 1989, the Supreme Court said in a
case from Michigan that this discrimination violates the
Constitution. The justices, however, didn't rule in 1989
whether the states must simply cease collecting the illegal
taxes on federal pensions or give retroactive relief. The
court observed in passing that Michigan had agreed to pay a
refund if the tax were struck down; the state since has done
so.
   In June, the court issued a splintered decision on
retroactivity in a tax case unrelated to pensions. Six
justices agreed that once a court orders a refund in a case
in which a tax was invalidated, the state must give
retroactive relief to all other taxpayers who had paid the
invalid tax.
   Despite the 1989 Michigan case, some state revenue
departments, with the approval of state judges, have
persisted in trying to tax some if not all federal retirees
in a disparate fashion. The Supreme Court has agreed to
consider Kansas's policy of taxing military pensions while
exempting state pensions. The Kansas Supreme Court last July
ruled that since retired military personnel are subject to
recall to active duty, their pension benefits effectively are
reduced "current compensation for reduced current services,"
and therefore fair game for the tax collector.
   Separately, the Virginia Supreme Court ruled in November
that the 1989 Michigan decision shouldn't be applied
retroactively, despite the fact that Michigan paid a refund.
Federal retirees from Virginia have asked the justices to
wade back into the retroactivity quagmire, and lawyers expect
the high court to do so because of the continuing confusion
over retroactivity.
   In the use-tax case, which comes from North Dakota, the
state revenue collectors desperately want to tap the
customers of the burgeoning $200 billion direct-marketing
industry. Their obstacle is a 1967 Supreme Court ruling that
states may not compel an out-of-state mail-order company to
collect a use tax unless the firm has a "physical presence"
in the state. North Dakota asked the high court to overturn
the precedent because new technology has made it easier for
direct marketers to operate across great distances, and to
add a use tax to their bills.