Who's News:
   Nomura Draws
   First Boston's
   Robert D. Long
   ----
   By Michael R. Sesit
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
At Nomura, Mr. Long's responsibilities will include
leading the U.S. subsidiary's efforts in U.S. and Japanese
corporate finance, private placements, structured finance and
mergers and acquisitions. He will also head up Nomura's
growing Latin American group, which has already acted as lead
underwriter for Aerovias de Mexico S.A., a Mexican airline
company.
   "My goal is to help provide product which will mesh with
the strengths of Nomura, of which capital and distribution
are at the top of the list," said Mr. Long. The other co-head
of the investment banking unit is Takuji Nishiyama.
   In the 1980s, Mr. Long, 35 years old, was a highly
visible, widely quoted junkbond expert; and as research in
the area became more important, his stature grew. But at
Nomura, he sees his role ranging far beyond that of just
concentrating on high-yield securities, an area Nomura said
earlier this month it was entering.
   In his new investment banking role, Mr. Long's "goal is to
provide product that is sophisticated and will appeal to
investors throughout the world, recognizing that each market
has its own uniqueness," he said. "Raising capital may be
different in one market from another; but at the end of the
day, it's still capital that's being raised. And knowing how
to do it in the name of the game in the 1990s."
   Explaining his motives for leaving First Boston after a
14-year career there, Mr. Long said: "I've been challenged by
building a number of different businesses and creating a
number of different products. The opportunity of applying
what I have already done in the past within Nomura is a truly
great opportunity."
   At First Boston, a unit of Switzerland's CS Holding, the
Canadian-educated Mr. Long built a reputation as a stock
analyst in several industries -- railroads, natural
resources, shipping and trucking -- and was recognized for
his efforts by being named in Institutional Investor
magazine's annual ranking of Wall Street research analysts.
He also was part of a team that built the U.S. firm's large
presence in high-yield securities and also helped create the
first bond offering collateralized by a pool of high-yield
securities.
   Mr. Chapman said that he wanted Nomura's investment
banking operations to concentrate on three areas: Latin
American finance; structured finance, where a group will
specifically design securities for distribution throughout
the world; and building a domestic U.S. corporate finance
capability focusing on large and mediumsized companies."Rob
is a fellow that has a distinguished record in a number of
different fields and brings the managerial and intellectual
capability to help us develop and exploit these strategies,"
said Mr. Chapman.
   Mr. Long's first exposure to Japan came at age 11, when he
spent six weeks there as a member of a United
Nations-sponsored international youth organization.