Nasdaq Posts a Blistering 56.8% Surge
   For 1991 as More Big Investors Pile On
   ---
   Pensions Finding
   Small Is Beautiful
   ----
   By James A. White
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The Greenwich, Conn., research firm's study last fall of
1,085 corporate pension managers found that 51% held small
stocks in their pension portfolios, up from 46% in 1990. And
56% of the 299 public-employee pension fund managers surveyed
said their portfolios included small stocks in 1991, up from
48% in 1990.
   Meanwhile, interest in small stocks continues to grow,
with an additional 6% of both the corporate and public fund
managers saying they plan in the next 12 months to add small
stocks to their portfolios for the first time.
   More buying by big investors is likely to add fuel to the
year-old rally in small stocks, which are often defined as
shares of companies with total stock-market values of $500
million or less. After lagging the returns on big stocks for
seven years, small stocks are roaring back in what many
analysts believe is the first stage of a multi-year rally.
   The arrival of new institutional buyers with deep pockets
could also help to limit the sharp price swings that have
been a hallmark of small-stock investing.
   Although small stocks continue to be more volatile and
expensive to trade than big stocks, big investors
increasingly believe that the diversification offered by
small-company shares offsets their drawbacks.
   U S West Inc.'s $7.7 billion pension fund made its foray
into small stocks early this year, with a $50 million
investment. By last month, its small-stock portfolio was up
37%. The move into small stocks has "been very good; I wish
we had done more," says James J. Biundo, pension head for the
Denver-based telecommunications company.
   Even with the increased holdings of small stocks, total
corporate pension investments in common stocks has remained
constant for the last three years at about 46%, according to
the Greenwich Associates study. That indicates that the
corporate funds are shifting money around within their stock
portfolios to add more small stocks, without expanding the
percentage of stock holdings in their portfolios.
   "One stage of diversification is to move to assets beyond
just stocks and bonds," says Chris McNickle, a Greenwich
Associates executive. "The next stage is to diversify within
asset classes, and that process is well under way."
   Public pension funds, however, raised the portion of their
portfolios invested in stocks to 40.1% in 1991, from an
unusually low 36.9% in 1990.
   Money managers who specialize in small stocks are sure to
benefit from the increased interest of institutional
investors. Already, small-stock managers are on a roll. A
survey of small-stock specialists by Wayne, Pa.-based SEI
Capital Resources at the end of the third quarter found the
median manager had rolled up a gain of 62.2% in the preceding
12 months, almost double that posted by other stock managers.
   Despite the hefty gains of small stocks and their growing
popularity with pension managers, many institutional
investors say there are dangers in chasing after the hottest
investment trends. Investment styles move in and out of
fashion, so that today's prince can easily become tomorrow's
frog.
   "We don't invest on the basis that an asset is doing well
today or it might do well for the next year or so," says
Claude R. Perrier, executive director of the $2.3 billion
Maine State Retirement System, which has $250 million
invested in small stocks. A better approach, he says, is to
develop a diversified investment plan and stick to it, even
when some of the investments aren't performing well.
   The Maine system, for example, first hired outside money
managers to invest in small stocks in 1986, when the small
issues were still laggards. It maintained its holdings of
small stocks -- despite their poor performance over the next
three years -- because they helped to diversify the pension
fund's portfolio. "We don't want to hire managers who all buy
the same stocks," Mr. Perrier says.
   The Greenwich Associates survey also found more corporate
pension funds adding growth stocks to their portfolios.
Growth stocks show higher-than-average earnings growth, even
in a weak economy. Growth shares turned in better returns in
1991 than value stocks, which are usually distinguished by
low price-earnings multiples.
   The number of public funds holding growth stocks also
increased, while those holding value stocks declined
slightly.
   Foreign stocks continue to attract large numbers of new
investors among pension funds, a trend evident in previous
Greenwich Associates surveys. Forty-one percent of corporate
pension funds invested abroad in 1991, up from 37% a year
earlier, according to the latest Greenwich Associates study.
Rushing to catch up with the corporate funds, 41% of the
public funds surveyed also said they held foreign stock in
1991, a jump from only 33% in 1990.
   In addition, 14% of the corporate fund executives and 11%
of the public fund executives surveyed said they planned to
add foreign stocks to their portfolios in the next 12 months.
   (See related story: "OTC Focus: OTC Index's Gain Breaks
'80 Record" -- WSJ Jan. 2, 1992)