Winter Olympics 1992 -- On the Games:
   The Moto Curse and Other Olympic Improvements
   ----
   By Frederick C. Klein
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Part of the blame traces to the Games' spread-out nature;
many of the venues are in remote mountain villages served by
two-lane roads from which private-vehicle traffic has been
barred on event days. Another part must fall on the Games'
organizers, who discouraged potential visitors by booking or
causing to be booked huge blocks of hotel rooms far in
advance, then failing to fill them all. This has happened at
every Olympics I've attended.
   And the French public hasn't responded, something that
comes as no surprise to the French journalists with whom I've
spoken. "We are not -- how do you say it? -- particularly
sports-minded," said one. That's how you say it.
   Shortage No. 2 is of decent souvenirs; the stands I've
seen are peddling generic-looking stuff I'd blush to bring
home, so I won't. You'd expect more from a nation that
includes the world's fashion capital.
   A third shortage pertains to the schedule of events, and
is no fault of the French. The calendar here includes 13
sports, two of which (speed skiing and curling) are classed
as demonstrations, meaning their medals don't count. That
contrasts with the 30-odd sports of the Summer Games. And
because -- to maximize TV bucks -- both seasons' Games are
spread over a 16-day calendar (you get three weekends that
way), the daily winter fare often is scanty.
   This doesn't reflect any lack of trying by Olympic
honchos; the Winter Games are dotted with combination events
(slalom and downhill skiing, cross-country skiing and
ski-jumping, cross-country skiing and riflery), and
out-and-out weird things like speed skiing, that seem to have
been designed with schedule-padding in mind. But alas, the
problem remains.
   So I am coming to the rescue with some new sports that
will not only flesh out the calendar, but will broaden the
scope of the Games with events to which many more people can
relate than presently. Why should the Hans-and-Fritz types
get all the glory?
                                                                                                       

   50-meter Sidewalk Shovel -- Lined up eight abreast,
contestants would clean identical walks covered with 18
inches of wet, heavy snow, using shovels that cost no more
than $9.95 at True Value Hardware. The first one finished
wins, after suitable penalties for missed patches.
                                                                                                       

   Moto Curse -- Contestants would clean the same walks as
above using snowblowers no less than five years old, and with
at least 80% of their original parts.
                                                                                                       

   25-meter Newspaper Pickup and Return -- Dressed only in
slippers, pajamas and bathrobes without sashes or other
fasteners, contestants would retrieve a newspaper from the
middle of a snow-covered lawn and return "home" through a
door with no fewer than three front steps. Athletes would be
permitted to run directly through the snow, or take a less
direct but maybe faster path via an icy walk. Again, best
time wins, with penalties for snow in slippers at finish.
                                                                                                       

   Uphill Slalom -- Wearing leather-soled shoes, and carrying
a large paper bag full of groceries, contestants would weave
through a series of pylons staggered along an icy sidewalk
that measures 220 meters (about 1/8 mile, or the length of a
typical city block) and that angles uphill at a grade of no
less than 25 degrees. This event was inspired by my
adventures reaching my hotel in the little town of
Brides-les-Bains, except the driveway there is punctuated by
potholes instead of pylons, and I usually carry a computer
bag instead of groceries.
                                                                                                       

   Dressage II -- Competitors would dress a two-year-old
child from the skin out for a cold-day walk. Garments would
include socks, underwear, shirt, pants or skirt, shoes,
overshoes, leggings, coat, cap and scarf wrapped securely
across the face. To ensure fairness, the two-year-olds would
be assigned by random draw. Judges' ratings would supplement
clockings, with a rapid dressing of a docile child counting
less than a somewhat-slower performance with a balky one. A
child's refusal to go out once he or she had been dressed
would result in the competitor's disqualification.
                                                                                                       

   Alpine Combo -- Contestants would negotiate a
medium-difficult ski run shared with recreational skiers,
repair to a lodge for two stiff hot toddies, and make a
bathroom stop. Then they'd stand in a lift line and make the
run again. Scoring would be weighted, with times of the
second run counting for more than those of the first. There'd
be penalties for knocking over or verbally abusing
recreational skiers.
                                                                                                       

   Commuter Marathon -- Utilizing the major city nearest to
the main Olympic venue, competitors would begin 26 miles and
385 yards from a downtown-officebuilding destination. They'd
negotiate rush-hour traffic on a morning with at least three
inches of new snow, find a legal parking place (it'd be OK to
use a lot) and walk or run the remaining distance. First one
through the revolving doors wins.
   I will take the earliest opportunity to address this
column to Juan Antonio Samaranch, president of the
International Olympic Committee. I'm sure that many of my
suggestions will be adopted by the next Winter Games, at
Lillehammer, Norway, two years hence. If you pick your
specialty now, you'll have plenty of time to train.