International:
   Deng Presses Chinese to Return
   To the Path of Economic Reform
   ----
   A Wall Street Journal News Roundup
"Reforms and greater openness {to foreign trade and
investment} are China's only way out," Mr. Deng was quoted as
saying by the pro-Beijing Ta Kung Pao newspaper in Hong Kong.
"No reform is a dead end."
   The report and others like it emanating from Mr. Deng's
weeklong visit to Shenzhen, a booming free-trade zone on the
border with Hong Kong, appear to confirm that Mr. Deng, 87
years old and infirm, is pushing the Communist Party to
resume economic reforms that had been frozen, or in some
cases reversed, since mid-1989.
   In the Chinese way of doing things, Mr. Deng's comments,
made at meetings with local officials in Shenzhen and
Guangdong province, amount to a directive that party
officials end their bickering over reform and support the
adoption of capitalist methods to stabilize the faltering
socialist economy. His statements foreshadow a reformist
victory over supporters of Stalinist central planning at a
party congress later this year. Any Chinese officials who
don't support the "new thinking" on economic reform would
have to step down, Mr. Deng was quoted as saying.
   Mr. Deng specifically praised the "successful" stock
markets in Shenzhen and Shanghai. "If capitalism has
something good, then socialism should bring it over and use
it," Ta Kung Pao quoted him as saying. As a further sign of
easing, China recently allowed foreigners to buy shares on
its two stock markets and committed itself to making the
Chinese yuan a fully convertible currency.
   The return to a more pragmatic economic stance appears to
reflect a consensus among China's aging leadership that the
spread of market economics within the socialist system is the
only way to prevent communism from collapsing, as it did in
the former Soviet Union. At the same time, Beijing apparently
also has decided that former Soviet leader Mikhail
Gorbachev's loosening of political control, or glasnost, is
as dangerous to continued Communist rule in China as in
Moscow.
   Earlier, as reported in Ta Kung Pao, Mr. Deng had urged
Chinese security forces to aid in economic development while
remaining alert to the dangers of "bourgeois liberalism," a
catch phrase referring to Western ideas, such as democracy,
seeping into China. Analysts took that to mean political
repression would continue despite the economic easing.