Citicorp to Post
   4th-Period Loss
   Of $150 Million
   ---
   Return to Profitability Seen
   In the Current Quarter;
   Shares Rise on Forecast
   ----
   By Fred R. Bleakley
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Moreover, Mr. Reed's statement said the nation's largest
banking company was "making solid progress" at the midpoint
of a two-year plan to improve operating margins through
cost-cutting and revenue gains. He said the fourth-quarter
pretax profit margin, which excludes problem loan
considerations, had improved to an annual rate of $6 billion
from $4.8 billion a year earlier.
   Although Mr. Reed predicted a return to profitability in
the current quarter, he didn't mention when Citicorp might
restore its dividend, which was suspended in the fourth
quarter. The bank's board will meet Jan. 21, the day earnings
are released.
   Mr. Reed's statement was based on projections he had made
to a group of 20 Citicorp executives from around the world
who had met over the weekend at the Hyatt Regency in Old
Greenwich, Conn. They were gathered to discuss changes in
management structure, including the addition from outside
Citicorp of a new vice chairman to be named next week. H.
Onno Ruding, former finance minister of the Netherlands, will
be joining the bank in that capacity.
   In an interview yesterday, Mr. Reed said he expected the
fourth quarter commercial loan write-off would be "quite a
bit higher" than what is expected in either of the first two
quarters of this year. "At the end of 1991 we finished off
our Australian loan problems and were aggressive" in writing
off troubled commercial loans in the United Kingdom, he said.
Still, he added that he expected commercial real estate loan
write-offs to remain high. "We are not betting the capital
turnaround on any turnaround in real estate." The same, he
indicated, is true for consumer banking revenue, including
credit-card activity, which were off more than expected in
the fourth quarter.
   Mr. Reed's statement said Citicorp would write off $650
million in commercial loans and increase loan-loss reserves
by $200 million for the quarter. It added that the increase
in nonperforming loans was less in the fourth quarter than
the third quarter.
   A year ago Mr. Reed said he planned to boost the key
measure of equity capital by as much as $5 billion, from the
$8 billion level then, by the end of 1993. He expects to
achieve about half of that, he said in yesterday's interview,
through retained earnings resulting from improvements in
operating margins this year and next. By the fourth quarter,
he said, he expects after-tax earnings will be at the rate of
more than $1 billion a year and "We'll be motoring along at
normal speed in 1993."
   An internal memorandum, released to the "chairman's list"
of key executives yesterday, said, "We are on track to
achieve a margin goal of $6.9 billion for 1992 with a $7.2
billion {annualized} rate for the last two 1992 quarters." He
added, "We need this to absorb the impact of real estate and
other higher than normal problem credit costs." Put another
way, he said, in 1992 the "core business bank," which
includes consumer and developed-country corporate finance,
will earn $2.4 billion while the "bad bank," mainly real
estate loans, will have losses of $1.4 billion. The
difference, he added, should increase capital.
   Several analysts reacted with cautious optimism to
Citicorp's announcement and an 11 a.m. conference call by the
bank offering further explanation. "Pending a review of the
fourth quarter results, this could well signal a change in
the perception of Citicorp's stock," said James McDermott,
president of Keefe, Bruyette  Woods. "That's a hedged way of
saying, take a look at it," he added.
   Mr. Reed also said the senior management committee had
been expanded to six, including the new vice chairman, from
the present four. Pei Chia, who currently heads consumer
banking, will join the group. The 15 line managers will
report to the group of six on a monthly basis in all-day
meetings, as will new task forces they will head to address
specific opportunities.
   Mr. Reed said this new organization structure "is profound
from a business view," adding, "We have given line
responsibility to 15 guys, where before there were seven."
   The memo also outlined broader responsibilities for
Citicorp President Richard Braddock. Mr. Reed said, "Rick
will have responsibility for operational execution . . . and
chair the monthly corporate reviews. He will also lead and
chair reviews of our task force effort."
   The new vice chairman, Mr. Reed said in the internal
memorandum, will be responsible for corporate business in
Japan, Europe and North America and eventually "he will play
a leading role in the ongoing re-architecture of our credit
process." Michael Callen, who previously had headed the
developed-world corporate business, confirmed yesterday that
he had resigned.