Union Warns GM
   Of Strikes If It Seeks
   Labor Concessions
   ----
   By Gregory A. Patterson
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Mr. Yokich's comments came just a day after GM Chairman
Robert C. Stempel sent the union a tough message, in the form
of a surprising plant closing decision. GM said it would
consolidate production of its large, rear-drive cars at a
factory in Arlington, Texas, and close a plant in Ypsilanti,
Mich., that currently builds the vehicles.
   Mr. Stempel indicated that the Arlington UAW local's offer
to work around-the-clock schedules with no overtime premium
was a major factor in the decision. The Ypsilanti local
hadn't offered such an agreement, betting that its plant
would survive simply because it's closer to GM's major
parts-making operations.
   By choosing Arlington, GM showed it's ready to play
hardball with the UAW as it struggles to reverse its record
$4.5 billion loss last year. As the company pushes ahead with
plans to close 21 North American factories, other UAW locals
will come under pressure to do as Arlington did. To drive
home the point, Mr. Stempel praised the International Union
of Electronics Workers for offering even broader concessions
in its effort to save a truck factory in Moraine, Ohio.
   But UAW leaders want to stop GM local unions from breaking
ranks and offering concessions that could fragment the
union's bargaining strategy.
   Mr. Yokich conceded there is a growing rift between some
rank-and-file UAW members and union leadership over whether
to give concessions in the scramble to save jobs. But Mr.
Yokich defended his tough stance, saying to make concessions
"would start an endless cycle of competition," among workers.
   Arlington workers voted to offer GM a three-crew,
two-shift production operation that would boost output by
50%. They also have approved work-rule changes in the factory
that would give GM more control over the assignment of
skilled-trades workers in the plant.
   Mr. Stempel said GM now will go to each factory work force
and seek changes similar to those offered at Arlington.
   But a furious Mr. Yokich said that strategy courts a
strike. He indicated that the union would wage a war against
concessions by targeting strategic factories that produce
popular cars or crucial components.