Speaking of Business:
   Prosperity Could Curb Mexico's Pollution
   ----
   By Lindley H. Clark Jr.
It's impossible to come up with an easy answer. In a
National Bureau of Economic Research paper (Working Paper No.
3914), Gene Grossman and Alan Krueger of Princeton seemed for
a while to have done so. Their research indicated that
air-quality measures in a cross-section of countries indicate
that economic growth tends to alleviate pollution problems
once per-capita income reaches $4,000 to $5,000.
   Mexico is already at $5,000 and thus possibly at the point
where further growth would generate new political pressure
for environmental protection and perhaps changes in private
consumption. The current Mexican government already has
reduced the lead content of gasoline, ordered several power
stations to burn natural gas instead of sulfur-generating
fuel oil, and shut refineries and private firms found to be
major sources of air pollution.
   Presumably Mexico still has a comparative advantage, at
least over the U.S., in pollution-control costs. But authors
Grossman and Krueger find little evidence that this advantage
has drawn much business to Mexico. They speculate further
that removal by Mexico of barriers to direct U.S. investment
could lead to specialization in low-polluting industries.
   If NAFTA works as well as its U.S. labor union critics
fear, it is a safe assumption that it will make Mexico more
prosperous. A more prosperous Mexico would be better able to
afford pollution-control systems and devices. After all,
hardly anyone is fond of dirt.
   The Princeton authors admit that they haven't offered the
last word on this subject: "Our findings must remain
tentative until better data become available," they write.
"We have been unable to use any information about the
pollution situation as it currently stands in Mexico, since
environmental monitoring there has been unsystematic at best.
Furthermore, the kinds of pollutants that we can examine are
limited by data availability."
   These are by no means the only obstacles to Mexico's
participation in NAFTA. This is an election year in the U.S.,
and legislators sensitive to union views -- particularly
legislators based in the South and Southwest -- have strongly
opposed Mexico's participation in NAFTA. There is, moreover,
an entirely different sort of opposition to NAFTA. There are
many economists who believe that free trade pacts such as
NAFTA will steadily undercut international free trade
agreements, such as the General Agreement on Tariffs and
Trade. Regional trading blocs have done very well through the
1980s, while GATT seems to have run aground.
   The European Community has sailed ahead, adding members
and planning to add more. Europe 1992, its expansion plan, is
regarded as so sure a thing that U.S. companies are rapidly
expanding in Europe to take advantage of it. At the same
time, GATT, which was supposed to have completed its Uruguay
Round by late 1990, has yet to reach an agreement.
   Some trading blocs seem more natural than others. Even
without the EC, European countries presumably would be doing
the bulk of their trade with one another, and North America
also seems a natural area. An agreement between the U.S. and
Korea would seem less natural. Even Israel, with its ties to
the U.S., would fit better with Europe. Some economists still
see hope that GATT will reach an agreement and, in the
meantime, fear that its progress would only be impeded by
arrangements such as NAFTA. If GATT does finally settle its
differences, they say, NAFTA and similar pacts would fit in
quite nicely.
   Mexican and U.S. trade officials, however, are unlikely to
stand aside cheerfully while GATT tries to solve its
problems. The current Mexican government is embarked on
economic reform, a program that could be quite beneficial to
the U.S. as well as the Mexican economy.
   It's a difficult job, particularly when you consider the
obstacles. If it succeeds, however, Mexico may be not only
more prosperous but cleaner as well.
   (See related letter: "Letters to the Editor: Politics Can
Pollute Environmental Policy" -- WSJ March 13, 1992)
   920212-0155