EPA to Narrow
   Rules Defining
   Hazard Waste
   ----
   By Rose Gutfeld
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
In a move that could come as early as today, the agency
plans to take action to keep the rules in place for now,
either by seeking a rehearing by the court or by putting the
rules out for a new public comment period. In its order
striking down the old rules, the court said the regulations
could be maintained temporarily during a comment period. In
addition, however, the EPA plans to announce that it will
seek to limit the rules, probably by creating a so-called de
minimis standard, that is, a level of hazardous content that
wouldn't automatically trigger a classification as hazardous.
   Industry has long pushed for such an exception, arguing
that it is burdensome and unnecessarily costly to subject
material with minimal amounts of hazardous content to the
stringent record-keeping and disposal rules that apply to
hazardous waste.
   "It's not unusual to find plants spending millions of
dollar per year per plant for waste" that is unfairly
classified as hazardous, said Michael Steinberg, an attorney
at Morgan Lewis  Bockius who argued the regulations on
behalf of the American Petroleum Institute and Shell Oil Co.,
a unit of Royal Dutch/Shell Group. He said the rules affect
most major industrial facilities.
   EPA officials, in fact, were considering whether to
propose a de minimis standard even before the court decision.
The effort has gained new urgency, however, because of the
decision and because it has become a focus of the Bush
administration's deregulatory push, under which all agencies
will be reviewing their regulations with an eye to slashing
undue costs.
   Environmentalists are wary about any effort to limit the
rules. "The devil's going to be in the details," said Karen
Florini, a senior attorney at the Environmental Defense Fund.
"What are the numbers and are they set up in a fashion that's
enforceable?" At the same time, she said that if new rules
allowed industry and the government to concentrate on greater
hazards without abandoning protection where it is needed,
that "could be win-win."
   It isn't clear whether the EPA, in seeking to narrow the
rules, will simply issue a proposed adjustment, or will first
set up negotiations between industry and environmental groups
to forge a consensus. Either way, the issue is likely to be
decided in a matter of months, although it also isn't clear
whether the agency will commit itself to any specific
timetable. Industry groups and officials from the White House
Office of Management and Budget are pressing for an early EPA
proposal.
   The agency also will be seeking assurance from the court
that it won't be vulnerable to lawsuits from companies
arguing that the action by the court or the EPA has made the
past 11 years of enforcement invalid.
   The hazardous-waste rules fall under the Resource
Conservation and Recovery Act, the nation's main
waste-disposal law, which is up for reauthorization this
year. Industry or environmental groups that are unhappy with
the EPA action may seek to remedy the situation through
legislative changes.