Economy:
   Limit on Car Exports to U.S. Is Reduced
   By Japan but Big Three Aren't Satisfied
   ----
   By Christopher J. Chipello
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The reduction -- 28% lower than the previous quota and 5%
below the actual number of shipments expected for the current
fiscal year -- didn't satisfy Detroit. The Big Three U.S.
auto makers said the move is meaningless, and two of them
called for tougher restraints.
   The new quotas are likely to boost Big Three profits
should car sales strengthen. But the move will hurt consumers
by driving prices higher, analysts said.
   Japan's auto makers are expected to report exports of
1,730,000 cars to the U.S. in the 12 months ending this
month.
   The limit had been 2.3 million cars since 1985, but
Japanese auto makers have consistently reduced their exports
in recent years as they sold more U.S.-made cars in America.
In the year ended last March, Japanese auto makers shipped
1,850,000 cars to the U.S.
   "This won't do a thing to help the trade balance,"Ford
Motor Co. Chairman Harold A. Poling said in a statement. "All
that has happened is that the Japanese government has
proposed a voluntary level for 1992 at about the same volume
their auto makers imported into the United States from Japan
in 1991. So, where is the reduction?" Mr. Poling has called
for an import quota of 1.3 million Japanese-made cars.
   Chrysler Corp. called the development "a small step in the
right direction." But Chrysler said the ideal quota would be
one million cars a year. General Motors. Corp. also said the
Japanese move means little, and called for "opening of
Japanese markets" to U.S.-made cars.
   In Washington, a senior Bush administration official said
the big U.S. automotive trade imbalance with Japan will
continue "as long as the Japanese continue to enjoy the
sanctuary of a protected market."
   Japanese officials anticipated the U.S. reaction. "There
are many different views in the U.S." on the export-restraint
issue, said Kozo Watanabe, who heads the trade ministry. "If
there were just one view, it would have been simple" to
decide, he said. Instead, any of the possibilities the
Ministry of International Trade and Industry has pondered
over the past few months -- maintaining the restraints at the
current level of 2.3 million cars, discarding them
altogether, or lowering them -- were bound to be faulted, he
said.
   After examining the factors and interests involved, Mr.
Watanabe said, MITI chose the option that seemed to represent
"the greatest common denominator." Given excess capacity
among U.S. auto companies and increased production by
Japanese makers in the U.S., he said, he doesn't expect the
new limit to lead to stiff price increases for U.S.
consumers.
   Keith Donaldson, an auto analyst with Salomon Brothers
Inc. in Tokyo, said the restraints could enable the Big Three
U.S. makers to regain market share from Japanese makers, if
the U.S. market picks up steam in the coming year. Japanese
makers are likely to make up for the 5% decline in export
volume by shipping higher-priced cars, he said. That has been
the trend in recent years, as Japanese makers produce more of
their lower-priced models in U.S. factories.
   Japanese car makers, who will be assigned new individual
export limits by MITI, had muted reactions. "While there is
concern that the government's decision may lead to a
strengthening of managed trade, I believe it is based on a
comprehensive assessment of the present state of strained
relations between Japan and the U.S." said Yutaka Kume,
president of Nissan Motor Co., in a prepared statement.
   Mr. Kume added: "We will do everything in our power to
help to mitigate trade friction with the U.S., and we
strongly hope that the U.S. auto industry will also try to
improve its competitiveness through self-help efforts."
   Shoichiro Toyoda, president of Toyota Motor Corp., said:
"We believe that free trade is ultimately the best direction,
but we respect the government's decision and we will abide by
it." Yoshihide Munekuni, executive vice president of Honda
Motor Co., issued a similar statement.
   Meanwhile, an advisory panel to the U.S. government said
the American auto-parts industry is expanding its foothold in
Japan but still has a long way to go to reach its marketing
objectives there.
   John Reilly, chairman of the Automotive Parts Advisory
Committee, said some U.S. suppliers that previously had
difficulties breaking into that market have landed Japanese
contracts since President Bush made his trip to Tokyo in
January. The committee didn't identify those companies.
   However, the committee urged closer monitoring of the
auto-parts trade to ensure that the Japanese auto makers are
living up to their January pledges to increase their
purchases of U.S. auto parts to $19 billion in 1994 from an
estimated $9 billion in 1990. The Japanese also have promised
to increase the U.S. content of their U.S.-assembled cars to
70% in 1994 from a claimed 50% in 1990.
   The panel, a creation of the 1988 trade law, consists of
representatives of the U.S. auto parts industry.
   ---
   Gregory A. Patterson in Detroit and Eduardo Lachica in
Washington contributed to this article.