Securities Offering Calendar
$20.8 billion in three- and six-month bills.
                                                                                                       

                         Thursday
                                                                                                       

   $12.75 billion in 52-week bills.
                                                                                                       

                         CORPORATE
                                                                                                       

                    One Day In The Week
                                                                                                       

   Advanced Magnetics Inc. -- 1,750,000 common shares, via
PaineWebber Inc.
   Automatic Data Processing Inc. -- $700 million of
(redemption amount) zero-coupon convertible subordinated
notes, via Merrill Lynch  Co.
   Capstead Mortgage Corp. -- two million common shares, via
PaineWebber.
   Countrywide Credit Industries Inc. -- three million common
shares, via Merrill Lynch.
   Cytogen Corp./Cytorad Inc. -- 3.5 million units,
consisting of one share of callable common stock of Cytorad
and one warrant to buy one share of Cytogen common stock, via
Merrill Lynch.
   Freeport McMoran Resource Partners L.P. -- 17.5 million
depositary units, via Merrill Lynch.
   Genesis Health Ventures Inc. -- 2.5 million common shares,
via Smith Barney, Harris Upham  Co.
   Ionics Inc. -- one million common shares, via PaineWebber.
   Integon Corp. -- initial 6.5 million common shares, via
Smith Barney.
   Mark IV Industries Inc. -- $100 million of convertible
subordinated debentures, via Bear, Stearns  Co.
   Public Service Enterprises Group Inc. -- 4.5 million
common shares, via Merrill Lynch.
   Southern National Corp. -- two million depositary shares,
each representing 1/4 interest in a share of Series A
cumulative convertible preferred stock, via Bear Stearns.
   Stop  Shop Cos. -- $200 million of senior subordinated
notes, via BT Securities Corp.
   Univax Biologics Inc. -- initial three million common
shares, via Montgomery Securities.
   Vestar Inc. -- 2.5 million common shares, via Alex. Brown
 Sons Inc.
   Zilog Inc. -- 1,250,000 common shares, via Alex. Brown.
                                                                                                       

                         MUNICIPAL
                                                                                                       

                          Tuesday
                                                                                                       

   New York State -- $85 million of improvement bonds, via
competitive bid.
   Virginia Housing Development Authority -- $64,445,000 of
mortgage revenue bonds, via competitive bid.
                                                                                                       

                         Wednesday
                                                                                                       

   Rochester, N.Y. -- $75.4 million of 1992 Series A
improvement bonds, via competitive bid.
                                                                                                       

                         Thursday
                                                                                                       

   Metropolitan Seattle, Wash. -- $90 million of Series U
sewer revenue bonds, via competitive bid.
                                                                                                       

                    One Day In The Week
                                                                                                       

   Fulton County Hospital Authority, Ga. -- $100 million of
Series A  B hospital revenue bonds (Northside Hospital),
(MBIA Inc. insured), via a Robinson-Humphrey Co. group.
   Harris County Health Facilities Authority, Texas -- $85
million of hospital revenue bonds (Texas Memorial Hospital),
via a First Boston Corp. group.
   Nevada -- $82 million of limited-tax general obligation
bonds (Nevada Municipal Bond Bank Project), via a Smith
Barney group.
   Phoenix -- $92 million of senior-lien streets and highway
user revenue and refunding bonds, via a Smith Barney group.
   Philadelphia Hospitals  Higher Educational Facilities
Authority -- $112.5 million of 1992 Series A hospital revenue
refunding bonds (Children's Hospital), via a Smith Barney
group.
   San Francisco Redevelopment Agency -- $110 million of 1992
Series lease-revenue bonds (George R. Moscone Convention
Center), via a Goldman, Sachs  Co. group.
   Virginia Public Building Authority -- $200 million of 1992
Series A state building revenue refunding bonds, via a BT
Securities group.