Consolidation
   Seen in Airlines
   Reservations
   ---
   Merger of Covia and Galileo
   Operations May Create
   World's Largest System
   ----
   By Asra Q. Nomani
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The merger isn't expected to involve an exchange of cash.
The new company is expected to be called Galileo
International, and would be based near United's Elk Grove
Village, Ill., headquarters. The stakes are high: Reservation
systems can be rich sources of profit and strong marketing
weapons.
   A consortium of airlines led by UAL Corp.'s United own
each of the two reservation systems. United is the principal
owner of Covia, while 11 European carriers represent most of
the partners of Galileo. Both companies distribute the Apollo
ticket-reservation computer program among travel agents.
   The companies' executives are betting that a merger, among
other things, would lower fixed costs through efficiencies.
Plus, they are hoping to centralize operations that are
otherwise widespread. The plan would require the approval of
U.S. and European regulators.
   Last year, two other computer reservation systems in the
U.S. and Europe tried unsuccessfully to combine under a joint
venture. Sabre Travel Information Network, a unit of
Dallas-based AMR Corp.'s American Airlines, and Amadeus
Global Travel Distribution of Europe called off the talks
after discovering "unbridgeable" differences in company
philosophies. The breakdown was considered a blow to the the
global efforts of the two companies.
   If the combination of Covia and Galileo is cleared, it
likely would catapult them ahead of Sabre, the world's No. 1
system. Under the plan, it's understood the new company would
set up a U.S. arm to parallel distribution operations set up
in European countries by the current Galileo.
   Ownership of the new Galileo International would be split
50-50 between European and North American carriers, in an
apparent effort to placate egos on both sides of the
Atlantic.
   But United would clearly remain the dominant partner with
a 38% stake; British Airways PLC would own 15%; Swissair,
13%; KLM Royal Dutch Airlines, 12%; USAir, 11%; Alitalia, 9%;
Sabena, Olympic Airways, Air Canada, Aer Lingus, Austrian
Airlines and TAP Air Portugal would have 1% or less.