In Today's New Hampshire Race,
   Politicians Can't Rely on Rhetoric
   ----
   By Joseph Pereira
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Last week, Gov. Dean won the first leg of the slalom
contest by a split second -- 48 hundredths of a second, to be
exact, after combining the times of two heats. But that was
on his home turf in Stowe, Vt. Gov. Gregg is hoping to get
revenge this week on friendlier terrain. Just to make sure no
one gets injured, though, the race will be held on the ski
resort's easiest run.
   The gubernatorial race, as it were, is the latest
flowering of the rivalry between the two neighbors, which
generally aren't very neighborly toward each other. New
Hampshire folk consider Vermonters a bunch of transplanted
New York liberal yuppies. And Vermont residents think most
New Hampshirites are backwoods Republican rednecks.
   So things were bound to get testy after Vermont poured
$250,000 into ads this winter to attract skiers from Boston.
That campaign -- double its effort last year -- annoyed New
Hampshire, which depends on Boston for nearly 80% of its
business.
   "There were a few exchanges between the two states," says
Gov. Dean, a Democrat. After he noted that former New
Hampshire Gov. John Sununu has a condominium in Vermont, Gov.
Gregg, a Republican, posed the challenge.
   Mr. Gregg says he hasn't practiced for the event. "As good
capitalists, we don't have time to hit the slopes," he says.
"We've been busy working."
   Mr. Dean, on the other hand, has gotten a few practice
runs in. "We don't have New Hampshire's banking problems, so
we can afford the time," he says.
   Not only the governors will race, but also their aides --
about 15 a side. Indeed, though Gov. Dean beat Gov. Gregg
last week, New Hampshire also claimed victory on the basis of
its aides' times.
   Even today's race may not settle matters. Gov. John
McKernan of Maine -- which also claims to be the region's ski
capital -- hasn't participated in the contests. So Maine
wants to hold a third race soon (in Maine, naturally) to
determine which state really has the best slopes.