Enterprise -- Washington Update:
   Democrats Court Entrepreneurs; Optimism Index Falls
   ----
   By Jeanne Saddler
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Paul Tsongas, the New Hampshire Democratic primary winner,
would require employers to pay for workers' health insurance,
the kind of mandated coverage that small-business groups
fervently oppose. But he would let small firms join state-run
buying groups designed to cut costs. The former U.S. senator
from Massachusetts also favors a lower capitalgains tax rate
the longer an investment is held and would "provide even
lower rates for investment in smaller firms."
   The National Federation of Independent Business says the
best pro-business record among the Democratic candidates is
Gov. Clinton's. "His philosophical underpinnings are decent,"
says John Motley, the federation's chief lobbyist.
   Mr. Kerrey's record "is abysmal," says Mr. Motley. "And
Tsongas is a typical senator from Massachusetts; but he
sounds like he's had a conversion and I hope he means it."
   ---
   SMALL-COMPANY OPTIMISM, hiring and sales all decline
again.
   The monthly optimism index of the National Federation of
Independent Business, a measure based on entrepreneurs'
shortterm plans for their companies, fell again last month.
It has lost ground steadily since April of 1990. Moreover,
small-company hiring was off dramatically: 19% of companies
surveyed had cut employment during the fourth quarter,
compared with 10% a year earlier. Meantime, only 10% planned
to add to their staffs, vs. 13% a year before. "The
jobs-generating machine was in full reverse" in the fourth
quarter, writes the federation's chief economist, William
Dunkelberg.
   Also, the small-business lobbying group said a quarterly
drop in sales was reported by the largest share of small
firms ever recorded in the 18-year history of the survey
series. About 39% of the companies had lower sales than a
quarter earlier for the fourth quarter ended Dec. 31.
Meanwhile, the NFIB says that even low interest rates won't
get businesses to produce more when there is little demand
for their products or services.
   There is little any president could do about this
recession except wait, the NFIB report says.
   ---
   INCREASED INVESTMENT minority-owned firms and venture
capital funds for minority businesses is the goal of
legislation introduced this month by House Small Business
Committee Chairman John LaFalce (D., N.Y.) and Rep. Andy
Ireland (R., Fla.), the committee's ranking minority member.
The measure would give a tax deduction for taxpayers who
purchase stock in such concerns if the stock is held for
three years. In addition, investors in those enterprises
wouldn't owe taxes on 50% of their capital gains if the stock
were held for three years. Re-investing the profits in other
minority firms would reap a nine-year tax deferral. The bill
aims to quickly attract capital to go directly into minority
companies and create jobs.
   ---
   BOGUS CONSULTANTS are trying to profit from the fears of
small-business owners who think they need special help to
comply with the new Americans with Disabilities Act, several
groups warn. The groups, including the American Institute of
Architects and the Council of Better Business Bureaus, note
that there isn't any such thing as a certified ADA
consultant. They say companies should be wary of high-priced
consultants and instead use disabled people in their
communities as advisers on complying with the law. Rules
reflecting the law take effect July 26. The Council of Better
Business Bureaus says that within a couple of months it plans
to issue a series of pamphlets on how the law affects various
industries.
   ---
   STATE PLANS for Clean Air Act compliance must include
small firms.
   The federal Environmental Protection Agency will require
the states to have technical-aid programs for small
businesses. These would provide for a state ombudsman and a
state advisory panel on what constitutes compliance with the
law. A federal ombudsman at the EPA's Office of Small and
Disadvantaged Businesses will monitor the state programs and
periodically report to Congress on their progress. The EPA
will also operate several technical service centers and
telephone hotlines to offer small companies information on
the law and the technical options for controlling pollution.
   One concern of small businesses is whether they will be
penalized if they seek state help and a violation is found.
Small business groups say they haven't been promised that a
company won't be fined in such instances. National
Association of Manufacturers officials say they hope state
officials won't move against a business unless human health
is at risk. But distributing information to small companies
and acting as their advocate also play a vital role, stresses
William Sonntag, director of government relations for the
National Association of Metal Finishers. "It's true you could
get into an intimate one-onone and end up in an enforcement
action, but there's a lot of good the program will do short
of that situation," Mr. Sonntag says. Later this year, the
EPA will issue a small-business guide to the Clean Air Act.
   The Small Business Administration's guaranteed-loan
program can be used to help firms obtain funds for changes
needed to comply with the law.
   ---
   SMALL TALK: Nearly half of uninsured workers were either
self-employed or working in firms with fewer than 25
employees in 1990, according to the Employee Benefit Research
Institute, in Washington, D.C. . . . One sign of political
discontent: about a dozen National Federation of Independent
Business members have announced plans to run for national
office, including business owners who will challenge Oklahoma
Rep. Mike Synar and Sen. Ernest Hollings of South Carolina,
both Democrats.