Autodesk Forecast
   Of Earnings Drop
   Sends Stock Reeling
   ----
   By Marilyn Chase
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
In over-the-counter trading Friday, the company's stock
fell $6.25, to $28.25. The fall came on almost the one-year
anniversary of a telephone analyst conference that touched
off a 22% plunge in the value of company shares. The
conference involved a company forecast of disappointing
earnings.
   In a presentation before New York securities analysts on
Thursday, the company's outgoing chief executive officer,
Alvar Green, blamed the bad news on recession-weakened demand
for Autodesk's products, a softness that has been felt
especially in the architectural, civil engineering and
machine-tool markets. Officers of the company were said to be
traveling, and didn't return a reporter's phone calls.
   Analysts cited more than simple recessionary blues for the
profit letdown, and scrambled to revise their outlooks.
   "I was looking for profit of just over $15 million, or 61
cents a share, on revenue of $74 million," said analyst John
Rossi, of Robertson Stephens  Co. in San Francisco.
   Mr. Rossi said one reason for the profit letdown was that
Autodesk offered aggressive promotional discounts to
customers late in the third quarter, effectively
cannibalizing its own fourth-period sales.
   In addition, the analyst said Autodesk is making necessary
but belated investments in marketing and product introduction
of its blockbuster AutoCAD, a software product that "sold
itself in the past.
   "So we'll see them spending more in a period of slower
sales growth," Mr. Rossi added. "Their aim is to roll out a
lot of products. They've got 26 in development."
   Despite the unpleasant turbulence in the stock price, Mr.
Rossi said, "They're not going out of business. They've got
good cash flow." He said Autodesk's operating profit margins
have tumbled from their historic highs. But he added that he
expects the company to work toward recovering a sustainable
profit margin of about 25%.
   "The company seems to be managed through a series of
panics," Mr. Rossi said. "This may be the biggest one, but
it's not one they can't manage. They've got good technology
and talented people."