E-II Nearing Agreement That Includes
   Trust to Pursue Claims Against Riklis
   ----
   By George Anders
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Mr. Riklis acquired E-II in 1988 from American Brands Inc.
Over the next two years, E-II was involved in a variety of
asset transfers and funding agreements with Mr. Riklis's
other businesses that E-II creditors say eroded E-II's cash
position. In December 1990, Mr. Riklis agreed to step down as
E-II's chairman and place his stock in the company into a
voting trust directed by E-II's new management.
   Various E-II bondholders say they are seeking restitution
of at least $30 million from Mr. Riklis. Neither Mr. Riklis
nor aides at his main operating company, McCrory Parent
Corp., returned phone calls seeking comment.
   Participants in the E-II restructuring talks said that
attempts to negotiate an immediate cash settlement with Mr.
Riklis have stalled. They added that creation of a litigation
trust has emerged as a leading option in dealing with
creditors' claims against Mr. Riklis.
   Ownership of the litigation trust would be divided among
E-II's current bondholders. The trust would begin operations
with a kitty of about $10 million, provided by E-II, and use
the funds to pursue claims against McCrory and Mr. Riklis.
Any money it won would then be divided among the creditors.
   People familiar with the debt restructuring talks said
holders of E-II's 12.85% senior subordinated bonds due in
1997 are likely to get a package of cash and new notes
equivalent to the full face value of their bonds, plus some
of the interest accrued during the bonds' default period.
   Holders of E-II's 13.05% subordinated bonds due in 1999,
who have a weaker claim on the company's assets, aren't
likely to get full value, but would emerge as major owners of
E-II after its restructuring. Both classes of E-II bonds are
held by the Resolution Trust Corp., several insurance
companies and mutual funds and by Apollo Investments, a New
York investment bank that has recently been an active buyer
of the bonds.
   E-II is likely to carry out its restructuring in the form
of a "prepackaged" Chapter 11 bankruptcy-law filing, analysts
and Wall Street advisers said. In such filings, a company and
its creditors enter Chapter 11 in agreement about terms of
the restructuring and use the bankruptcy process as a quick
means of overhauling loan pacts.
   When E-II emerges from Chapter 11, it is likely to seek to
sell stock to the public in its two main subsidiaries,
Samsonite and Culligan, predicted Michael Weinstock, a BDS
Securities analyst. E-II's chairman, Stephen Green, said last
week that both Samsonite and Culligan are "doing very well;"
he wouldn't elaborate.
   For the nine months ended last Oct. 31, E-II reported
earnings before interest, taxes and McCrory-related expenses
of $80.7 million on revenue of $672.6 million. Large debt
bills and McCrory expenses, however, left the company with a
$153.8 million net loss.