Piling Up:
   As Recycling Surges,
   Market for Materials
   Is Slow to Develop
   ---
   Logistics, Cost, Mill Capacity
   All Contribute to Gluts,
   Posing Peril to Movement
   ---
   Some Firms See Opportunity
   ----
   By Frank Edward Allen
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Collection centers in many other cities and towns,
particularly in the Northeast and Midwest, are buried in old
newspapers, green wine and beer bottles and plastic milk jugs
that nobody wants. Aluminum cans bring only a pittance,
victims of the former Soviet Union's desperate effort to
raise hard currency last year by dumping bauxite ingot on the
market. And rising labor and shipping costs have combined
with the recession to squeeze waste haulers, materials
brokers and processors.
   Some haulers in the Minneapolis-St. Paul area, having run
out of indoor storage space, are dumping or burning
recyclable materials, says Timothy Nolan of Minnesota's
office of waste management. "Nobody wants the negative PR,"
he says, "but with so many things hitting all at once, it's
tough to make ends meet. Some processors are going out of
business."
   Many experts say this crunch was bound to happen. The
supply side of America's recycling revolution has been
growing at an explosive rate, but the demand side is still
barely under way. Manufacturers simply aren't geared up to
absorb the huge volumes suddenly available. Mr. Kneass fears
the country's entire recycling infrastructure could collapse
if efforts to expand markets don't take hold soon.
   William Ruckelshaus, chief executive of Browning-Ferris
Industries, sees such disruptions as "temporary and
understandable." But he warns that "nothing will kill
recycling faster than overreaction" to the problems. "The big
danger is that people will get turned off and discouraged,"
he says. "Unless there is consistent public demand for
recycling to continue, the politicians will lose interest in
a hurry."
   Over the past three years, as more states have adopted or
expanded recycling laws, the number of local curbside-pickup
programs for newspapers, glass, aluminum, plastic, cardboard,
office paper and other materials has soared. Among 163 cities
that applied for the Heinz National Recycling Awards last
year, two-thirds had begun their programs within the past
three years and nearly a fifth were less than a year old.
Many programs have expanded beyond conventional items to
include such troublesome waste as batteries, motor oil,
antifreeze and paint. Ann Arbor, Mich., recycles toner
cartridges from laser printers. Clifton, N.J., takes tires,
concrete and asphalt.
   The National Solid Wastes Management Association estimates
the number of curbside collection programs has grown to 3,500
from 600 three years ago, reaching 15 million households and
thousands of office buildings. About 40% of curbside programs
are mandatory, according to BioCycle magazine. Most of those
are in the Northeast, California and Minnesota.
   In parts of the Northeast and Midwest, where strong after
markets haven't developed, the oversupply is so great that
state officials report instances of separated trash being
mixed together again and hauled to dumps and incinerators at
taxpayer expense.
   Recycling critics are gloating. For years, they have
viewed recycling as a craze driven by panic about vanishing
landfills. Many also believe recycling initiatives are based
on faulty economic assumptions and that such efforts
ultimately cost more in time, labor, energy and
transportation than they're worth.
   "Recycling programs are efficient when they are able to
turn a profit," says Jerry Taylor, director of natural
resource studies at the Cato Institute, a libertarian think
tank in Washington. "But most of these mandatory curbside
programs aren't profitable. They're simply subsidizing the
collection and processing of materials" that probably should
be buried or burned.
   An exception, say Mr. Taylor and other critics, is
aluminum cans, now being recycled at a 65% rate. These
efforts, which preceded government mandates, always have been
efficient because they require less energy, and therefore
cost less than producing cans from bauxite ore.
   "The best way to tell if something should be recycled,"
says Mr. Taylor, "is whether it's already being recycled
because of market forces. If you need government intervention
to achieve recycling, then it probably will distort the
markets."
   Other critics argue that mandatory recycling policies put
an extra burden on municipal finances at a time when budgets
are strained. Lynn Scarlett, vice president for the Reason
Foundation, a conservative research concern in Santa Monica,
Calif., says recycling programs typically cost between $120
and $130 a ton, after subtracting any revenue from the sale
of reusable material. But a 1991 New Jersey study found
curbside programs cost some cities as much as $200 a ton, she
says. "Even in New Jersey, with the highest landfill disposal
costs in the nation, this cost can exceed the amount required
to simply landfill trash," she adds.
   Even the most zealous advocates of recycling concede that
not all waste materials can be reused. But they push for
recycling of as much waste as possible, for reasons both of
environmental quality and long-term resource conservation,
and urge patience in the short term while the industry
struggles to eliminate bottlenecks and develop markets. Some
of these efforts are advancing rapidly. Others might require
years of investment and support.
   To help absorb the newsprint glut, about 40 newspaper
de-inking plants are being planned and built in the U.S. and
Canada. In Pennsylvania and other states, more companies are
buying old newspapers for insulation and dairy-cow bedding.
Minnesota hopes to attract companies to turn old newspapers
into such molded products as egg cartons.
   Similarly, Coca-Cola, PepsiCo, Dow Chemical and Huntsman
Chemical of Utah all are investing in ambitious pilot
programs to recycle plastics. New Jersey, New York and
several other states are developing plans to use mixed glass
in highway striping, road signs and "glassphalt" paving.
   "We are confronting an enormous change in the way millions
of individual Americans deal with household and commercial
waste," says Mr. Ruckelshaus of Browning-Ferris, a former
head of the Environmental Protection Agency. The nation must
also cope with complex changes in the way industry gets its
basic materials, he says, affecting a wide spectrum of
business considerations, from plant design and product mix to
storage depots, transport networks and purchasing standards.
He calls America's waste streams "the mines of the 21st
Century."
   Among the largest and most perplexing of those waste
streams is used newsprint. It is a bulky, messy commodity,
awkward to store, costly to bale, and easily damaged by
water, sunlight and contaminants. It occupies up to 15% of
landfill space, garbologists say. But a de-inking plant costs
about $75 million to build, so the industry faces major
investments to comply with such laws as California's new
requirement that newspapers use at least 50% recycled paper
by the end of the decade.
   Meanwhile, newsprint recyclers continue to struggle with
all kinds of fluctuations and dislocations. Much processing
is done overseas because of lower labor costs, but last year
the Gulf war diverted about 37,000 sea containers to ship
goods to the Middle East. That diversion sapped critical
transport capacity. About 20,000 of the 40-foot-long metal
containers remained in Saudi Arabia all summer.
   Newsprint brokers in the Northeast, who couldn't move
their old papers to South Korea and Taiwan for processing,
reneged on contracts with many communities. The Long Island,
N.Y., town of Babylon and some of its neighbors stacked 1,200
tons of newspapers in an airplane hangar. By August, as
yellowing and drying reduced the paper's value and increased
the fire risk, piles were being incinerated in a waste-energy
plant.
   But market conditions loosened up in the fall, and the
hangar is empty now. Evan Liblit, Babylon's environmental
control commissioner, says local dealers now pay the town a
few dollars a ton for papers. Seventeen months ago, Babylon
had to pay the dealers $35 a ton to take them.
   More important, Babylon has organized a four-town
cooperative representing 1.1 million people. Mr. Liblit, the
co-op's executive director, says big paper companies that
need reliable, long-term supplies are helping build a
regional newsprint-baling plant for the 60,000 tons a year
the co-op expects to generate. A de-inking mill in Quebec
that starts up in May is hungry for supplies. Newsday, the
Long Island newspaper, is urging its newsprint suppliers to
buy used Newsdays from Long Island collectors for use in
recycled paper for its presses. Says Mr. Liblit, "Everybody
knows things will be better in a year."
   But the only way to guarantee that things get better, some
recycling advocates believe, is prompt federal action. In
November, Rep. Gerry Sikorski of Minnesota introduced
legislation designed to stimulate the demand side of the
recycling equation. Part of Rep. Sikorski's bill is modeled
after recent laws in eight states that require a minimum
percentage of recycled content in certain products, including
newsprint, aluminum and glass packaging, tissue and other
paper goods.
   "We need federal recycling legislation to balance supply
and demand," says Allen Hershkowitz, senior scientist at the
Natural Resources Defense Council.
   A dozen states now offer low-interest loans, grants or tax
credits to companies that make products from recycled
materials. About 35 states have recently adopted purchasing
programs designed to lift demand for paper products,
construction materials and soil additives with recycled
content.
   It may take years for such policies to have an impact. In
many parts of the country, the cost of recycled paper
products is still sharply higher than that of virgin stock,
as the Internal Revenue Service found out when it sought bids
for recycled paper for tax forms in 1990.
   Prices may come down as competition grows. In Rhode Island
and other states where the recycling of office paper is
mandatory, Fort Howard Paper has found ready sources of used
material for tissue products. Champion International has a
new advertising campaign designed to persuade more companies
to buy high-quality coated paper made from recycled stock for
use in annual reports and other publications. But until more
markets are developed, says Rhode Island's chief
environmental coordinator, Victor Bell, "we're talking
big-time glut."
   He should know. Rhode Island still sends about 30% of all
the glass it collects at curbside to the dump, mainly because
of breakage. (Broken glass of mixed color is hard to sort and
nearly worthless.) On the East Coast, furnace-ready clear
glass generally commands $45 to $50 a ton, but green glass,
which comes mostly from inported beer and wine bottles, is
virtually worthless. Few U.S. glass furnaces are designed to
take it, and they are scattered widely. In response,
recyclers in many states are scrambling to develop
non-traditional glass markets, including insulation for
piping and painted glass beads for highway signs and
striping.
   New York City's municipal asphalt plant used 38,000 tons
of crushed glass in 1990. Street pavers in Los Angeles
recently began using 5% mixed-color "cullet" in asphalt
mixes. New Jersey's glassphalt program is being expanded, and
Pennsylvania officials hope to cut logistical costs by using
rail cars to move big loads of glass from the Philadelphia
area to plants in the state's northwest corner.
   Some recycling gluts can come and go quickly. Last spring,
the Owens-Brockway unit of Owens-Illinois told recyclers in
the Northeast it couldn't take any more green glass. Then
last month, regional manager Austin Fiore complained there
was "no green to be found." He expected then to be about 500
tons short in delivering a 5,000-ton shipment to Puerto Rico
this week. But glass plants in the Northeast were idled over
the holidays and backlogs accumulated, so now Mr. Fiore
expects to be 200 tons over the contract.
   Even the mountain of mixed glass in Seattle might
disappear by spring. If the county government proceeds with a
glassphalt plan that would use 5% glass in the blend, Waste
Management's Mr. Kneass figures yearly demand in the county
alone will be three times the size of the stockpile outside
his window.