High-Tech Hysteria
   Grips U.S.; Skylab?
   No, Michelangelo
   ---
   A Celebrity Computer Virus
   Creates Hype and Profits;
   A Vaccine Called PC-cillin
   ----
   By Michael W. Miller
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The world will find out today whether Michelangelo is a
genuine plague or just a digital common cold. But already
Michelangelo-mania qualifies as the greatest high-tech
hysteria to grip the nation since Skylab fell out of the sky
in 1979.
   All week, Nightline, McNeil-Lehrer and hundreds of other
TV shows and newspapers have been on Michelangelo watch. Like
air-raid monitors warning how to duck and cover during an
attack, computer experts have been demonstrating how to
practice "safe computing" by administering software
"vaccines" with names like PC-cillin and PCrx.
   McAfee Associates, the No. 1 vendor of anti-virus
software, has been logging 2,500 calls a day for the past
week. Cable News Network was planning to broadcast live from
McAfee's Santa Clara, Calif., office throughout today.
   "People are really coming unglued," the company's chief,
John McAfee, said yesterday in a breathless exchange on his
way to a TV interview. "We've had about six hours' sleep in
five days."
   It's not as if Michelangelo is the only virus out there.
The Pakistani Brain, the Maltese Amoeba, the Kennedy Virus
and about 2,000 other strains are all said to be coursing
through the world's computers.
   But Michelangelo has become the first celebrity virus. One
reason is its enormous element of suspense: a countdown to
disaster culminating on the birthdate of its namesake. Its
threat -- total data annihilation -- is unusually dire. And
Madison Avenue couldn't have given it a catchier name.
   "Suddenly it's like living in California waiting for the
earthquake," says Jacob Slichter, a Minneapolis musician and
writer. He says local radio stations have been issuing
regular Michelangelo warnings, and just yesterday a rumor
circulated that a nearby nuclear power plant caught the dread
virus. "Now people are fantasizing about South Minnesota
going up in ashes because the plutonium is somehow wired into
the computer," he says.
   Much about Michelangelo is still a mystery, including its
origins. Computer viruses spread invisibly, programmed to
copy themselves from one disk to another. According to Mr.
McAfee, a professor in Germany first spotted the Michelangelo
program in early 1991. Virus-watchers think it may actually
have originated in the Netherlands, because of an early
cluster of sightings there.
   Reports of a Michelangelo epidemic started circulating on
computer bulletin boards a few months ago. "This destructive
virus is spreading world-wide very rapidly," read one January
posting on a California board.
   The whispers quickly turned into a roar, thanks in large
part to a media blitz by a hitherto obscure sub-segment of
the software industry. Like evangelists thundering against
doomsday, they sent a loud message that the way to computing
salvation lay in investing $80 or $100 in new anti-virus
software.
   The message worked wonders. Central Point Software Inc.,
maker of the "Michelangelo Protection Kit," recently hired
workers for a new 12-hour shift so it could pump out products
round the clock. Sales have also been brisk at Peter Norton,
where callers are greeted with a message urging them to buy
its "Michelangelo Limited Edition" software. McAfee
Associates, which distributes its anti-virus program via
computer bulletin-board, says the board's 16 lines have been
busy 24 hours a day.
   Mr. McAfee has a team of virus-busters who walk around his
office wearing black gloves. His office wall has a lush
painting of a spaceship cruising through the universe zapping
viruses. This week he has been going on television and
warning that 500,000 to 1.5 million computers are infected
with Michelangelo -- an estimate some scoff at.
   "He's got a terrific product, but he has a tendency to
hype things," says Charles Rutstein, author of the Executive
Guide to Computer Viruses, just out in a hastily issued
second printing.
   It's no hype, says Mr. McAfee. Major high-tech companies
like Intel Corp. and Leading Edge have found viruses in their
computers. Dataquest, a respected market-researcher, this
week reported that 15% of companies it surveyed had at least
one outbreak of Michelangelo.
   Israel Rittberg, president of a small Levittown, N.Y.,
company that sells software to real-estate offices, worked
round the clock Wednesday night removing the Michelangelo
virus from a customer's computers. He caught two hours' sleep
and then raced to another customer who also found the virus.
"These people are vandals," he says angrily.
   Some virus-watchers were expecting damage as early as
yesterday, since computers' built-in calendars may have
overlooked leap year and declared March 6 a day early. And
indeed, Mr. McAfee said late yesterday that he'd heard
reports that the virus had already destroyed data at more
than a dozen U.S. companies, but those reports were fuzzy and
unconfirmed.
   Even if Michelangelo turns out to be underwhelming, that
won't necessarily put an end to virus fever. For one thing,
the antivirus vendors can always take credit for safely
inoculating the nation's computers -- like the old joke about
the man who walks around with an "elephant stick" even though
he's miles away from any elephant. "See, it works]" he
retorts.
   And a few software companies are already pushing products
to eradicate the next looming threat to computer data: the
Friday the 13th virus. That's a week from today.