MARKETING
   ----
   By Richard Gibson
CAP'N CRUNCH, the name sake character of a Quaker Oats
cereal, is showing up in grade schools across the country
these days. His appearance reflects a popular, if risky,
marketing effort by some companies to reach kids.
   Quaker hired a company that turns out free educational
materials in which products and services are present but not
blatantly promoted. The Cap'n Crunch packet includes
suggested exercises in visual discrimination, logical
reasoning and following directions. Though none mention the
sugary cereal, all are tied into the cereal's current sales
theme, "Who's the real Cap'n?"
   Lifetime Learning Systems of Fairfield, Conn., sent about
40,000 packets last month to teachers of kindergarten through
third grade at an estimated 93% of public and private schools
across the nation. Lifetime says it's too soon to know how
widely the packets are being used.
   Quaker initially worried that teachers and parents would
turn mutinous at the cereal sailor's classroom invasion. "We
didn't want to do anything that would turn them off," says
the product's assistant brand manager, Ronald Zhiss.
   That was before Lifetime officials, whose clients have
included Eastman Kodak, Johnson  Johnson and PepsiCo, told
him the materials had been approved by a board of teachers,
and that in these austere days many teachers welcome free
help.
   But the practice raises some eyebrows. "This is very close
to the razor's edge," says Dawne Simmons, a spokeswoman for
the National Congress of Parents and Teachers, based in
Chicago. She says the group's guidelines on corporate
involvement in schools include the principle that programs
"must be structured to meet an identified educational need,
not a commercial motive."
                                                                                                       

   Store-Brand Pricing
   Has to Be Just Right
                                                                                                       

   TOO GOOD a deal can turn consumers off.
   Take private-label groceries. Consumers are wary of items
where the savings over a national brand are so great they
think the products must differ substantially in quality, says
Raj Sethuraman, a University of Iowa marketing professor who
studied scanner data on house brands. On the other hand, if
the savings aren't big enough, there's little incentive to
buy the house brand.
   When the price difference is less than 10%, "people won't
buy," the professor says. But if the gap is bigger than 20%,
"they will impute inferior quality."
   Another finding was that grocers who spend a lot promoting
house brands may be wasting their money. Prof. Sethuraman
confirms earlier findings that private-label price promotions
seldom draw consumers away from national brands, and merely
benefit shoppers who would have bought the house brand
anyway. But promotions by national brands can easily erode a
house brand's market share.
   Though retailers can defend their private-label items by
restricting in-store promotions by national competitors, they
can't do much about use of coupons by manufacturers.
Cents-off coupons "appear to be an effective deterrent" of
both new private-label products and growth in store-brand
market shares, Prof. Sethuraman says. That's partly because
they help a shopper decide which brand to buy before arriving
at the store.
   Sometimes, where a product is used determines what's
bought. "If margarine goes into an item being cooked, people
aren't as concerned about using store brands," the professor
says. "But if it's going to be set on the table, they want a
national brand."
                                                                                                       

   Tortilla Chips Gain
   On Other Salty Snacks
                                                                                                       

   AMERICANS are going nuts over salty snacks.
   The average person shelled out $51.45 for pretzels,
popcorn and other such fare in 1990, the latest year for
which figures are available, according to a report by the
Snack Food Association. That was up 7% from 1989.
   Potato chips remain the most popular salty snack, with an
estimated 80% of households buying the product in a two-week
period. But tortilla chips are gaining fast: Their
penetration has jumped 10 percentage points since 1981 to 58%
of households. Snack nuts are eaten in two-thirds of all
homes.
   Other between-meal favorites include corn chips, though
they've lost ground to other options; microwave popcorn and
pretzels, each with 42% penetration; and party mix. Despite
President Bush's preference, pork rinds bring up the rear,
with only 5% household penetration.
   Kids and teens have the heartiest appetites for most
snacks. But nuts and party mix are favored by those over 55.
Microwave popcorn is a favorite with middle-aged men on
low-cholesterol or weight-loss diets.
   Despite the nation's health binge, only 3% of snacks sold
in this category are considered "light," with low or no
sodium. Researchers also asked heavy snackers to assess how
guilty they feel about snacking. Though the figure increased
slightly over the past decade, only 13% today say they
"strongly agree" with the statement, "When I eat between
meals I feel guilty."
                                                                                                       

   Odds and Ends
                                                                                                       

   NEW policyholders at Kemper National Insurance Cos.
receive a 15-minute videotape explaining in simple words what
they've just bought. The tape includes tips on how to prepare
for possible claims. . . . Some supermarkets are testing
in-store food courts featuring fare from such national chains
as ChiChi's Mexican, Godfather's pizza and T.J. Cinnamon's
baked goods. Victor Cascio  Associates, a consulting firm in
Overland Park, Kan., calls its concept "The Supreme Court."