Senior Squeeze:
   A Retirement Haven
   Struggles With Curse
   Of Low Interest Rates
   ---
   Sun City, Ariz., Residents Toy
   With Riskier Investments
   As CD Returns Languish
   ---
   A Widow Gauges the Damage
   ----
   By Pauline Yoshihashi and Peter Pae
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
The extended rate decline has set off alarms all along the
quiet streets and lush fairways of this sprawling retirement
haven, shocking residents whose security is backed by safe
and simple interest-bearing investments. Now, thousands of
startled Sun Citians, like many others among the 35 million
Americans over 65, are faced with financial and investment
issues they hoped they'd never have to address.
   Falling interest rates may be a tonic for the economy as a
whole, but they are bitter medicine to many of the elderly.
The American Association of Retired Persons estimates that
54% of all interest-bearing money-market and CD accounts are
held by seniors, who have a huge 30% of their net worth tied
up in interest-bearing assets. For every one-percentage-point
drop in short-term rates, people 65 and over lose $14 billion
in income, according to Economic Analysis Associates, an
economic research firm in Stowe, Vt.
   This contrasts sharply with the way lower interest rates
affect younger people, such as baby-boomers buying a house
and running up debts as they raise their families. For every
one-point drop in short-term rates, consumers between the
ages of 25 and 44 gain $10 billion in income, the Vermont
research firm estimates.
   The loss of interest income is cushioned by lower
inflation, of course. It ran a mere 3.1% last year as
measured by the consumer price index; 10 years earlier,
although savers could get 14% on a three-month Treasury bill,
they faced 10.3% inflation. Still, the elderly don't get the
full benefit of this lessened inflation, because their
spending patterns don't mirror the components of the consumer
price index. They spend a higher percentage of their incomes
on health care, for instance -- and health care is one
expense that continues to surge.
   Some analysts say the comfort of high returns on
ultra-safe investments was something that couldn't last.
"Retired people were spoiled in the '80s," says Paul
Mastroddi, chief economist at J.P. Morgan  Co. "The high
rates were an aberration. Now they're returning to normalcy."
   If so, that's a particular jolt in a place like Sun City,
which is dedicated to creating a kind of golden-age sanctuary
from some of life's harsher realities. Since the 1960s, this
desert enclave northwest of Phoenix has been a little bit of
paradise for those who prefer to be known not as senior
citizens but "active adults." Its developer, Del Webb, added
18 golf courses, 64 bowling lanes, bocci and horseshoe courts
and many other amenities.
   Seniors pay anywhere from $60,000 to $200,000 to buy a
piece of the good life in Sun City and its sister development
Sun City West. The neighborhoods beckon them with an
enveloping air of safety, thanks to a volunteer "snoop squad"
that helps keep the crime rate low. There's even a sort of
lending library for sickroom equipment, called the Sunshine
Service. Silver-haired cleanup teams scour the streets, where
the worst litterbugs are city-owned trees shedding overripe
oranges onto the hot macadam. The 14,000 sandy acres of Sun
City have been overtaken by wave after wave of tidy tract
houses. Nearby are older developments like Blue Sky Mobile
Estates to the south.
   Thera McMehen, 88, lives there in a modest but comfortable
white mobile home. Decked out in a bright-red pant suit, she
sits at her kitchen table with a calculator and stacks of
papers carefully sorted into Ziploc bags as she totes up the
damage to her investment income last year.
   "Near as I can tell, I'm in the hole almost $1,000," she
says, in accents of her native Oklahoma. With investment
income totaling about $6,500 last year, a drop of that size
is no small concern. Her Social Security last year came to
$6,396.
   Despite the letup in inflation, Mrs. McMehen, who is
widowed, finds that most everything she needs costs more.
That includes the $239 a month rent on her mobile-home lot;
her auto insurance, which has doubled; utilities; and even a
jar of High Top strawberry jam, which has jumped 50% to
$2.09.
   And there's the constant worry of health care. Mrs.
McMehen fractured her hip last year in a tumble, and has cut
back on her driving and gotten an aluminum walker because of
dizzy spells. While Medicare has taken care of most of her
medical bills up to now, she pays $526 every six months for
supplemental insurance.
   Mrs. McMehen's nest egg comes from a lifetime of hard work
that began shortly after she left Oklahoma for Texas and,
later, Arizona. Before refrigerators, she and her family sold
soda pop, ice and watermelons -- "a penny a pound, two cents
ice cold" -- from a roadside stand along Indian School Road
in Phoenix. "We sold four tons of ice on July 4, 1928," she
recalls. "If I had a nickel for every ice-cream cone I
scooped and every pop-top I popped, I'd own the big building
that's there now."
   Instead, most of her savings result from years of
homesteading with her late husband on 320 acres of wild
Arizona desert near Buckeye. "Sold off most of it and got
$114,000," with $25,000 clipped for taxes, she says.
   Though Mrs. McMehen always saved, she avoided most
equity-based investments. "I tried to be as cautious as I
could," she says. "I never played the market." Much of her
assets are in such things as money-market funds, but their
complexity confuses her. "They send me all kinds of papers,
but Jiminy Christmas, I can't keep up with them all," she
says. All she knows is that her income has dropped, and she
plans to sit down with an investment adviser soon.
   "Those CDs are no good these days, and I have to do
something," she says. But the self-reliant Mrs. McMehen
retains her good humor. "Be sure to buy me some red pens,
those two-for-a-dollar ones," she tells her visiting son,
James, as he heads out with her grocery list and a stack of
coupons. "I'll need to be writing in red ink."
   Other retirees, like Charles and Ruth Sackett of Sun City
West, have finally branched out from safe, fixed-income
investing into more promising -- but riskier -- strategies.
The Sacketts moved here from Tallmadge, Ohio, when Mr.
Sackett retired after 42 years from his field service job
with B.F. Goodrich Co.'s aerospace division. Like most Sun
Citians, they paid cash for their house, a bright
three-bedroom model that cost about $110,000 with furnishings
and customized add-ons like a big porch for Mrs. Sackett's
ceramics and crafts hobbies. The Sacketts supplement their
pension and Social Security income of about $1,500 a month by
investing the proceeds from selling a house they inherited in
Ohio.
   But with each rollover of maturing CDs, Mr. Sackett, 72,
has become more concerned. He got 10% on three-year CDs in
1983. When the bank offered a 4.35% rate on one-year
certificates last fall, it shocked him into taking action.
For the first time in his life he has hired a financial
planner and taken the plunge into investments like equipment
leasing partnerships and stock mutual funds. He took an
investing course at a local college, where he learned, he
says, "that CDs aren't 100% safe, and that with a little bit
more risk you can keep ahead of inflation."
   That, of course, is no sure thing. But historically, it is
true that equities keep one ahead of inflation a lot better
than fixed-income investments do. However, "These people
remember the Depression," says J. Donald Larkin, a Sun City
financial adviser. "Most can't stand any kind of risk, and
it's hurting them."
   Despite the natural caution of age, though, some older
residents of Sun City do play the long-term investment odds,
and as a result suffer less from the current interest
climate.
   Joseph E. Zwisler, a robust 80-year-old, sips a glass of
crisp Chardonnay at Sun City's exclusive Lakes Club and
speaks of the power of the stock market. "Inflation has
become a way of life," says Mr. Zwisler, a blunt,
square-jawed Chicago native who moved here in 1984. In the
face of an uncooperative economy, he continues to plow about
$50,000 a year -- largely investment income -- into the
market. Bailing out of equities, he thinks, "is a mistake too
many people make when they reach 65."
   Mr. Zwisler, an accountant who went on to head a Milwaukee
industrial company, favors a high-octane mix of 65% stocks
and 35% fixed-income investments such as municipal bonds.
"Well, I consider good utility stocks fixed income," he
explains. "They're stable, and they offer the possibility of
some growth income."
   Like many of his Depression-era generation, Mr. Zwisler
was not born to the country-club life. His first job, as an
accounting-firm proofreader, paid $80 a month, barely enough
for him and his wife, Ouida Marie. "That meant $35 a month
for the apartment, $5 for transportation, $5 a week for
groceries and $8 a month for lessons and courses I was
taking," he says. When he became a CPA in 1935, his pay
jumped to $135 a month -- "a real bonus," he laughs. "Going
through the Depression, you really appreciate those things."
   A devout student of the market, Mr. Zwisler subscribes to
a raft of financial publications and combs through corporate
reports as a hobby. He sets his standards high, seeking a 20%
return on equity for firms he invests in. He diversifies by
buying just a few hundred shares of each of a range of
stocks.
   He concedes that his approach isn't for everyone. "I may
be a little more aggressive than someone who wants to pass on
an estate to their family," says Mr. Zwisler, whose has no
surviving children. Two beneficiaries are the local medical
center and the Episcopal church.
   Mr. Zwisler represents a minority of growth-minded
retirees who've avoided depending on interest-based
investments. Del Webb Corp. pegs Sun City residents' combined
net worth at about $8 billion, and annual income at more than
$1 billion. Residents have some $4 billion in deposits in
local financial institutions, and a local Citibank says its
average savings account balance is about $50,000 here. "A lot
of people are rolling over into very short-term CDs, trying
to ride it out," says a spokeswoman for the bank. "They're
parking their money."
   Some cannot shake their fear of investing. "I know where
my money is when it's in the bank," says Dorothy, who
declines to give her last name as she leaves a WalMart store.
Instead of trying riskier investments that might -- or might
not -- return better, she is sticking with her CDs and
dealing with low returns simply by cutting back her spending.
"I'm no gambler," she says. "When you raise a family, you
learn how to watch pennies, and I can do it again."
   Because of such caution, some economists say retirees may
be among the last to enjoy the fruits of an economic rebound
as low interest rates continue to take their toll on
conservative savers' disposable income. Not that their lost
income will keep low rates from reviving the economy, says
Elliott Platt, an economist at Donaldson, Lufkin  Jenrette:
"The positive actions of the non-retired will dwarf whatever
negative effects take place in the retired category," he
says. "I don't think this group is a leading sector in the
economy in overall expenditure patterns."
   In the meantime, cautious senior savers may be in for a
bumpy ride. Although the Federal Reserve doesn't plan any
further interest-rate cuts now, it remains ready to press
rates lower if that seems necessary to spark a turnaround.
"This is not good news to savers like the elderly," says
Cynthia Latta, an economist at DRI/McGrawHill Inc. "To some
extent, the economy will be jump-started at their expense."
   ---
   Corrections  Amplifications
                                                                                                       

   CHARLES SACKETT retired to Sun City, Ariz., after working
for Goodyear Tire  Rubber Co. of Akron, Ohio. The company
was misidentified in Thursday's edition.
   (WSJ Feb. 3, 1992)