A Woman's Right to Choose Breast Implants
   ----
   By Sharon Green
The majority of women who opt to have breast
reconstruction or augmentation do not make this decision
lightly. Thousands of women have called the Y-ME national
hotline during the past year asking questions about silicone
breast implants.
   Who are these women and why have so many of them rebuilt
their bodies? As can be expected, many of our callers are
breast cancer survivors. They have faced breast loss, a year
or two of chemotherapy, and some have had their chests
radiated. They face each day hoping that they have overcome
cancer. Many no longer want to be reminded every morning and
night of the cancer that played havoc with their bodies.
   It is estimated that one-third of current breast cancer
patients are having reconstruction, most often with silicone
implants. Saline implants can be an alternative, but they are
not as aesthetically pleasing. An estimated 20% of implants
are performed to reconstruct the breast; the rest, for
augmentation. Y-ME's most recent survey (October 1991) of its
own Hotline counselors -- all breast cancer survivors --
showed that among the respondents who had implants, the
overwhelming majority were satisfied with their implants and
87% believed the devices helped their emotional recovery.
   Y-ME Hotline counselors also indicated that, of the
hundreds of women they have talked to with implants, 71% are
very satisfied, 28% are moderately satisfied and only 1%
dissatisfied with these products. In addition, 89% of the
respondents believe that silicone implants should remain a
viable option for any woman who wants them, as long as the
woman is informed of the risks and benefits.
   But what about the healthy woman who wants her breasts
augmented? These women, too, have begun to call our hotline
because they have no place else to voice their frustration
over the current controversy over whether silicone breast
implants are safe. I have talked to many of these women.
Their stories are varied, most deal with self-image and
self-confidence, and their experiences clearly show that
implants made a positive difference in their lives. Their
comments have made me and the counselors at Y-ME realize that
breast implants are a concern not only for cancer patients
but for all women.
   I believe women and their emotions are being held hostage
by the current circus surrounding the review process. Women
have waited more than a year for the Food and Drug
Administration to make a final ruling on the safety and
effectiveness of these devices. The FDA advisory panel's
recommendations made last November tying implant availability
to further research gave FDA Commissioner David Kessler a
strong mandate to get answers to lingering questions and to
break new ground with an official registry and an enforced
informed-consent process.
   Instead, Dr. Kessler issued a voluntary moratorium on
silicone implants and will be reconvening a panel that has
already been compromised by conflicting internal memorandums
and innuendo. His reason for this action was new evidence,
still unreleased, that he claims questions the safety of
these products.
   Once again, women and their doctors have been left in the
dark as a government bureaucracy and a politically ambivalent
administrator refuse to make a firm decision after more than
a year of reviewing the evidence.
   Y-ME's position is clear and simple. If silicone breast
implants can be scientifically proved dangerous, then this
information should be made available to women. If the data
are inconclusive, we demand full disclosure of all
information so women can make decisions based on fact and not
on unscientific claims and anecdotes. We also understand that
no medical device can be guaranteed 100% safe and that some
people are willing to take greater risks to improve the
quality of their lives. However, it should be a personal
choice based on all the medically verified evidence as it is
known today.
   Millions of women have chosen oral contraceptives to
prevent unwanted pregnancies. They choose them well aware
that the known risks for these pills include blood clots,
heart attacks and strokes, gallbladder disease, liver tumors,
water retention, mood changes, dizziness and nausea (from the
FDA booklet Current Issues in Women's Health).
   To ban or severely limit silicone breast implants based on
inconclusive data would be one more insult to women by taking
away their right to make informed decisions regarding their
own bodies. For others to deny the right of a woman to
implants because they fundamentally believe implants are
unnecessary is arrogance in its ugliest form.
   ---
   Ms. Green is executive director of Y-ME National
Organization for Breast Cancer Information and Support, in
Homewood, Ill.