Bond Dealers Say Recent Fed Changes
   On Auctions Will Create Riskier Market
   ----
   By John Connor
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The dialogue between federal officials and market
participants came here at a meeting of the Public Securities
Association, a bond trade group. It marked the first major
public airing of the controversial primary-dealer changes and
auction proposal in a report issued late in January by the
Treasury, Fed, and Securities and Exchange Commission in
response to the Salomon Brothers Inc. bond scandal.
   As part of that report, the Fed moved to "open up" the
primary dealer system for government securities, effectively
downgrading the status of being a primary dealer. The Fed,
among other things, dropped its dealer surveillance
activities, eliminated a requirement that primary dealers act
as effective secondary market-makers in Treasury securities,
lowered its criteria for capital strength, and eliminated its
standards for management strength and control.
   The PSA said in a white paper released here that these
changes, especially when coupled with the Treasury's plan to
shift to a new ascending-price open auction system, will
foster market illiquidity, heighten risk, and boost borrowing
costs. Federal officials disputed these contentions, but the
debate here made it clear that important aspects of the
government market overhaul aren't playing well with market
participants.
   Fed officials have "abrogated their responsibility," said
J. Patrick Rothstein, managing director of Merrill Lynch
Government Securities Inc., in releasing the PSA critique.
John Sites, senior managing director of Bear, Stearns  Co.,
said the government may be inadvertently undermining the
commitment of dealers to the U.S. government market at the
worst time possible, alluding to the $400 billion deficit
forecast for fiscal 1992.
   Peter Sternlight, executive vice president of the New York
Fed, said the decision to open up the primary dealer system
flowed from a widespread but mistaken notion that the Fed was
certifying the creditworthiness of primary dealers and
perceptions of special status, "even clubbiness." He said
there was "just too much extra freight piggy-backed onto the
primary dealer designation."
   Mr. Sternlight said the new primary dealer system could
end up with many more members, but Arthur Cooke of Bank of
California, said, "My guess is Peter {Sternlight} will be
surprised at the very small number who will wish to sign up."
   Primary dealers, now down to 38 from 41 at the high point
last year, recorded net pretax profits from their primary
dealer operations of slightly more than $1 billion last year,
up from about $800 million in 1990. The 1991 numbers are
based on the 41 dealer total. And 85% of the primary dealers
made a profit last year vs. 70% the year before. The 10
largest primary dealers accounted for about 50% of the
customer business. These figures were presented to primary
dealers at a closed meeting here by a New York Fed official
and confirmed by a Fed spokesman.
   Dealers sharply criticized the Treasury's proposal to
shift from the present price auction method to an open
auction system under which there would be repeated rounds of
bidding at ascending prices, with all securities eventually
awarded at a single yield. The Treasury intends to start
trying the system next year, once the auction system has been
automated. This plan is "fraught with danger," said Merrill
Lynch's Mr. Rothstein, who chairs the PSA's government and
federal agencies securities division.
   Several major government securities investors said they
aren't interested in bidding in the proposed system, which is
intended partly to attract a wider bidding audience.
   Deborah Danker, deputy assistant Treasury secretary for
federal finance, appeared to signal flexibility on the
auction question when she told the dealers in soliciting
comments on the proposal that "it may be this alternative is
not really as promising as we think."
   Authors of the PSA white paper stressed that it
represented the views of primary and non-primary dealers,
national and regional firms, banks and brokerage houses.
Anticipating charges that the dealers' criticisms are
motivated by selfinterest, Mr. Cooke of Bank of California
said: "I don't think it's self-serving. I think it's
reality."