West German
   Weak Economy
   Still Stagnates
   ---
   GNP Fell 0.5% in 4th Period
   From Previous Quarter;
   Inflation Rate Increases
   ----
   By Terence Roth
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Otmar Issing, a Bundesbank governor and the central bank's
chief economist, says the decline that began with the second
quarter of 1991 has been sharper than the Bundesbank
expected. The economy, though weakened, is widely considered
to be fundamentally sound considering the pressures of slow
world growth, unity-related fiscal pressures and the influx
of jobseeking immigrants.
   "I don't think it will come to a sharp decline," Mr.
Issing said in an interview. "But I don't want to paint too
pretty a picture. We are in a very critical situation."
   The Federal Statistics Office on Friday confirmed earlier
estimates that western Germany's gross national product in
the fourth quarter grew by only 0.6%, the slowest annual rate
since 1987, from a year ago and fell 0.5% from the third
quarter. That extended to three quarters western Germany's
economic slowdown, although the statistics office revised its
original report of a 0.5% decline in the second quarter to
zero growth. The reported 0.5% quarterly decline in the third
quarter was left unrevised.
   Speeding the quarter-on-quarter decline in the final 1991
period was a 4% drop in industry capital spending and slowing
construction activity, even after accounting for seasonal
factors. In an annual comparison, fourth quarter industry
spending was up only 0.5% from a year earlier, compared with
a 15.2% year-on-year rise recorded in the first quarter.
   Officially, western German gross national product rose by
an inflation-adjusted 3.1% in 1991. But, seen another way,
real GNP was down 1.4% in the fourth quarter from the first
quarter, translating into to an annual rate of decline of 2%,
said Martin Huefner, chief economist of Bayerische
Vereinsbank AG. "The cyclical situation in Germany clearly
has turned worse in the past months," he wrote in a recent
analysis.
   Many economists expect another 0.5% quarter-on-quarter GNP
decline in the first period with a recovery beginning in the
second quarter. Year-on-year comparisons for the first period
of this year are almost certain to show a decline from the
first quarter of 1991, when western GNP was up 2% from the
previous quarter and 4.5% from a year earlier.
   Mr. Issing wouldn't rule out another slight
quarter-on-quarter decline in the first quarter. "I can
imagine that," he said. "But when you are dealing with such
small changes, anything can influence them -- for example a
change in construction activity."
   But he said even a flat first period wouldn't bode well
for government expectations of 1.5% western German growth
this year. "It's still possible, but the likelihood isn't
growing," he said.
   Hope is seen in signs of a recovering U.S. economy and
potential for a recovery in Germany's vital export trade.
Eastern Germany, though it accounts for less than 10% of the
united German economy, is expected to show a roughly 10% rise
in output this year.
   Meanwhile, a sustained dollar recovery against the mark
poses new risks for Germany by increasing prices of imported
goods. This year's contract talks with major German unions
also could provide an inflation push on the wage front.
   Although many analysts speculate that the Bundesbank could
be moved to cut Germany's record-level official interest
rates if the demand continued to decline, inflation risks are
likely to keep Bundesbank rates in place for the foreseeable
future.
   Financial analysts already speculate that rapid growth in
the Bundesbank's M3 money supply -- a key guide for policy
decisions -- could show a deceleration in February from its
9% expansion rate in January, overshooting the Bundesbank's
3.5% to 5.5% monetary growth target for 1992. Mr. Issing said
part of this growth has come from unusual impulses, including
subsidized credit demand and the mark's popularity as a
parallel currency in eastern Europe.
   Mr. Issing acknowledged pressure on the Bundesbank to
reduce rates from home and abroad. Yet while he predicted a
"substantial" easing in German inflation starting in the late
spring, he said currency levels and wage negotiations and an
anticipated rise in fiscal outlays for eastern Germany from
the 140 billion mark ($83.86 billion) 1991 expenditure will
continue to play roles in Bundesbank policy decisions.
   "Contrary to appearances, we are examining our policies
all the time," he said. "But we don't react on day-to-day
considerations. Our main concern is always the our monetary
target."
   For the time being, Germany's high interest rates are
attracting foreign capital needed for eastern Germany's
industrial rebuilding. The Bundesbank said Friday that 14.1
billion marks in long-term investment flowed into Germany in
January, up from 5.8 billion marks in December.