Dow Corning Corp. Agrees to the Release
   Of More Data on Breast-Implant Safety
   ----
   By Bruce Ingersoll
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Dow Corning will release, as requested by the FDA, the 13
documents here today along with an 800-page compendium of
some 90 documents that the company promised earlier to make
public. Both sets of documents are covered by court-secrecy
agreements in product-liability cases against Dow Corning, a
joint venture of Dow Chemical Co. and Corning Inc.
   Rep. Weiss, in his letter to FDA Commissioner David
Kessler, expressed particular concern about a Feb. 29, 1984,
memo that indicated "massage instructions provided to
patients by plastic surgeons, which were intended to prevent
capsular contracture, were believed by Dow scientists to
cause rupture." Capsular contracture occurs as scar tissue
forms around implants, causing them to contract painfully.
   In the memo, Dow Corning official Eldon Frisch cited
complaints from Charles Vinnik, a Las Vegas plastic surgeon,
who found that many Dow Corning implants were rupturing
easily because of thin spots and that the silicone gel in
them had lost its cohesiveness. Mr. Frisch concluded that
massaging of the breasts, as recommended to patients, would
repeatedly stretch the implant shells, "resulting in
progressive weakening and ultimate rupture."
   What concerns Rep. Weiss, chairman of the House Government
Operations subcommittee on health resources, is that some
plastic surgeons still recommend implant massage to prevent
capsular contracture.
   In Midland, Mich., Dow Corning spokeswoman Barbara
Carmichael wouldn't comment on the 13 additional memos,
saying she hasn't yet read them. But she questioned the
preoccupation with internal documents dating back to the
early 1970s. "Women need substantive answers based on
science," she asserted. "Our concern is that all this focus
on old memos is keeping us from moving forward with the FDA
on studies that need to be done."
   At a news conference here today, she added, Dow Corning
will announce the company's long-term commitment to silicone
implant research. "Even if they ban the product, we are going
to continue to research the materials so that we can answer
women's questions," she said.
   The second batch of memos also provides new insights into
the frequency of implant ruptures. In a memo from December
1977, 30 months after Dow Corning introduced its so-called
flo-gel Silastic implant, a company official named Frank
Lewis reported that the rupture "problem is still recurring
at an inordinate rate." Mr. Lewis named four plastic surgeons
who reported rupture rates ranging from 11% to 32%.
   "I am sure some of these {ruptures} were the fault of the
doctor, but that alone could not account for such a high
percentage," he wrote. "These doctors have on the average 10
years of experience in this procedure."
   Four years later, a November 1981 memo reported more
complaints from Dr. Vinnik, the Las Vegas surgeon; this time
a failure rate of about 5%.
   The agency has been pressing Dow Corning officials for
early release of the confidential documents. Dr. Kessler
wants to give members of an FDA advisory panel as much time
as possible to review them before the panel meets Feb. 18 to
consider the future of silicone implants. Public disclosure
also would let the panel discuss the documents openly at the
meeting.