International:
   Labor Counters
   Tories' Tax Plan
   With Job Programs
   ----
   By Tim Carrington
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Labor's platform differs by offering several spending
projects aimed at relieving Britain's chronic recession,
including a #300 million job-training program and a #300
million "radical new employment program" on which it didn't
elaborate.
   The spending programs could be only marginally more
stimulative than the Conservatives' tax cuts. Labor's plan
would boost Britain's output in the first year by only 0.1%
or 0.2%, estimates the Nomura Research Institute in London.
   John Smith, Labor's "shadow" chancellor of the exchequer,
would exempt about 740,000 low-wage Britons from any income
tax. Those earning less than #22,000 a year would see tax
cuts. Labor would scuttle the Tory plan to chop the rate to
20% for the first #2,000 of income, leaving it at 25%; and it
promises not to increase the rate in future years. Labor
would impose a new top rate of 50% on taxable income above
#36,375, up from the current 40%.
   Labor would stick with the Tory proposal to cut the
special car tax to 5% from the current 10%, a move designed
to boost auto sales. And to stimulate industry, Labor would
extend tax breaks to manufacturing investments. The Institute
for Fiscal Studies estimates that Labor's proposed 40%
capital allowance would raise total investments in the
corporate sector by 6.5% in the new fiscal year. Labor would
hang on to a 0.5% stamp duty on securities transactions; the
Tories would end the levy.
   Presenting the Labor plan, Mr. Smith steered clear of past
Labor policies of punitive taxes and inflationary spending.
He even borrowed phrases popular among Conservatives in the
past decade, calling for "a supply-side environment within
which enterprise can thrive."
   But the alternative budget failed to calm worries that
Labor, if elected, would devalue the pound. Chris Dillow,
economist with Nomura Research Institute, notes that every
Labor government since the 1920s has devalued the pound.
   Mr. Smith also pledged that Labor would stick with the
exchange-rate mechanism that ties the pound to the German
mark at a median exchange rate of 2.95 marks. And despite the
rising deficit, Labor also said it would keep the commitment
to meet the terms for eligibility for the EC currency in late
1996.