Who's News:
   IBM's Grabe
   Quits as Exodus
   At Top Expands
   ----
   By Michael W. Miller
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
"There's no doubt in my mind whatsoever that Akers has
made a strategic decision to eliminate a whole layer of
management, and more importantly to eliminate an entire
generation," said Gerard Roche, chairman of the Heidrick 
Struggles executive search firm.
   Mr. Roche, who said he's spoken to half a dozen senior IBM
executives over the last year, estimated that he's currently
seeing 60% to 70% more high-level IBM resumes than usual.
Right now, he said, he's working on two presidency searches
in which active or recently departed IBM executives are under
consideration, and he said at least one more departure from
the company's top ranks is imminent.
   Just last week IBM Senior Vice President George Conrades,
once seen as one of the two contenders to succeed Mr. Akers,
announced his retirement, following a highly public ouster
from his post running IBM's U.S. operations. The week before
that the other serious contender, C. Michael Armstrong,
retired to become chairman of General Motors Corp.'s Hughes
Aircraft Co. unit.
   Their exits strongly suggested that Mr. Akers intends to
leapfrog the level of executives right behind him and choose
a successor from the "forty-something" generation of IBM
managers.
   Mr. Akers himself sent out a strong and unusually public
signal last week when he told a Business Week interviewer
that he'd explicitly informed Mr. Armstrong last fall that he
didn't have a shot at the top job.
   Mr. Grabe will retire on March 31 and become a special
partner of General Atlantic Partners, a New York investment
firm with major holdings in the software industry. IBM said
no successor would be named. It said Robert LaBant, the head
of IBM's U.S. operations, will assume Mr. Grabe's
responsibilities.
   A polished marketer long on a fast track inside IBM, Mr.
Grabe said he'd been considering leaving the company ever
since he reached his 30th year there last summer. IBM
recently changed its personnel policy to accord full
retirement benefits to employees with 30 years of service,
regardless of their age. Mr. Grabe said the new policy
offered him a way to try a second career as an entrepreneur
without financial penalty.
   Mr. Grabe's name occasionally surfaced on lists of
possible future chief executive officers of IBM. But
yesterday he admitted: "I had no delusions that I was going
to go run IBM. I just didn't see that happening."
   As for the timing of his retirement, he said, "I recognize
how it may look, but there's really no connection between
myself, George, Mike, and their decisions."
   An IBM spokesman also discouraged drawing any broad
inferences from the three retirements. "It would be
inappropriate to try to cast this into a wider theory," said
the spokesman, Rob Wilson. "It's just not true to say this is
part of some fiat across the company for more new blood
inside IBM."
   Mr. Grabe said he's leaving behind a company in the midst
of a serious slump. "In the U.S., business really has been
dead, and I don't see a lot of signs yet that capital
spending has begun to pick up," he said.
   More broadly, he said IBM still has to place more emphasis
on software and services, now that computer hardware is
rapidly becoming a commodity. Asked whether he was leaving
the company because of impatience with that slow transition,
he said: "I was leading the parade, so if I was impatient I
had only myself to blame."
   Separately, IBM is expected to announce today its purchase
of an equity stake in Red Shark Technology Corp., a small New
York developer of multimedia software.
   IBM is buying the stake from Stanley Katz, former chairman
of the FCB/Leber Katz Partners advertising agency. Mr. Katz
bought Red Shark from the agency when he retired as chairman
last year.
   The 20-employee concern specializes in merging
computerized video, audio, text and graphics.