Senate Finance Panel, in Partisan Vote,
   Clears $57 Billion Package of Tax Cuts
   ----
   By Jackie Calmes
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Members from both parties wagered that it was in their
interest simply to whisk the measure to the White House. Some
Republicans want to attack Democrats for raising taxes,
others simply hope to get the showdown behind them.
Democrats, sensing Mr. Bush's vulnerability this election
year, are eager to blast him for killing a bill that would
cut taxes on businesses and the middle class just to hold
down taxes for the richest Americans.
   Finance Committee Chairman Lloyd Bentsen completed the
package early yesterday, just hours before his panel's
session, after making last-minute changes to accommodate
wavering Democrats. The measure includes tax cuts worth an
estimated $57 billion over the next five years, and
provisions to raise a projected $63 billion to finance the
package. Most of the increased revenue would come from a new,
fourth tax rate of 36% on upper-income individuals and a 10%
surtax on millionaires.
   If the Senate passes the bill, lawmakers still would have
to work out differences with a separate Democratic measure
passed by the House. But the two versions are fundamentally
similar. And except for the Democrats' inclusion of higher
taxes and tax cuts aimed at the middle class, each bill
broadly resembles Mr. Bush's seven-point economic plan.
   Both parties alluded to the parallels during yesterday's
finance panel meeting, and both called for bipartisan
compromise. But neither gave any ground on the basic question
of higher taxes.
   "In an effort to conciliate, I have put all seven of the
president's proposals in" the bill, Sen. Bentsen said. But,
the Texas Democrat added: "If he (Mr. Bush) wants to continue
to protect the less than 1% at the expense of average
Americans, and veto this bill because it asks that
seven-tenths of 1% pay their fair share, that would be his
choice and not ours."
   "This is not a bipartisan bill," countered Oregon Sen. Bob
Packwood, the panel's top Republican. The Senate GOP leader,
Robert Dole of Kansas, said: "The bottom line is, as long as
there are (higher) taxes in this bill, it's going to be
vetoed, and that veto is going to be sustained."
   The Senate's Democratic leader, George Mitchell of Maine,
immediately answered Sen. Dole's critique, saying: "This is a
modest effort to redress the unfairness in the tax policies
of the 1980s."
   Specifically, the Democrats would combine the
millionaires' surtax and the 36% income tax on couples with
taxable income above $175,000 -- the current top rate is 31%
-- with a new $300-a-child tax credit for people with
adjusted gross incomes below $50,000.
   Despite the Democrats' unanimous vote, their support
clearly was tenuous. That was exposed first by the flurry of
concessions Sen. Bentsen privately made in drafting his bill,
with provisions for automakers, oil and gas producers,
student loans, capital gains, and business transportation,
among others.
   Sen. John Breaux of Louisiana won approval of an amendment
to repeal a requirement that restaurants pay payroll taxes on
employees' tip income. To make up the revenue loss, the
amendment would eliminate the current business deduction for
private-club fees.
   The following provisions of the bill parallel the
president's plan, and, in some cases, the House's bill:
   -- Businesses would get an extra 10% depreciation
allowance this year for new equipment put in service before
July 1, 1993. The president and House proposed 15%.
   -- Real-estate developers and full-time building managers
once again would be able to deduct rental losses on existing
properties, but only against their income from real estate
and not from unrelated ventures; 80% of losses could be
deducted and the remainder could be carried forward to the
next tax year. The provision is similar to the president's.
The House has a broader proposal.
   -- The top capital-gains tax rate, now 28%, would be
reduced according to a complex, two-part proposal. First,
there would be a new scale of rates -- 5%, 19%, 23% and 28%
-- for sales of existing assets. The lowest capital-gains tax
rate generally would apply to people in the lowest tax
bracket, which is 15%. The top-income taxpayers, those who
would be thrown into the new 36% income-tax bracket, would
continue to be taxed on their capital gains at 28%. A second
capital-gains provision would set a 14% tax for all taxpayers
on proceeds from sales of new, small-company stock that is
held at least five years.
   "Is it fair to say this is more complicated than current
law?" GOP Sen. John Danforth of Missouri asked about the
Democratic proposal. And Fred Goldberg, the assistant
Treasury secretary for tax policy, said the Finance Committee
provision "is likely to afford very little capital-gains
relief" to individuals with one-time gains from the sale of
small businesses and family farms. President Bush called for
a simple top rate of 15.4% on capital gains.
   -- Tax benefits for Individual Retirement Accounts would
be expanded and made available to all taxpayers, regardless
of income; Mr. Bush has a narrower IRA proposal and the House
has none. In addition, penalty-free early withdrawals from
IRAs would be allowed to pay for purchases of first homes,
major medical costs and college tuition. Mr. Bush and the
House also have proposed this.
   -- First-time home buyers who purchase newly-built homes
could receive a $5,000 credit. The administration's proposal
would apply to new and existing homes. The House has no such
provision.
   -- Some popular tax incentives, including credits for
business research and for low-income housing, would be
extended for another 18 months.
   Other highlights of the Senate bill include:
                                                                                                       

   -- The deduction that businesses can take for executives'
compensation would be capped at $1 million an executive. The
House bill has a similar provision, but Mr. Bush has no such
proposal.
   Republicans on the Finance panel objected that corporate
shareholders should decide whether executives' salaries and
perks are excessive. To that, Democratic Sen. Thomas Daschle
of South Dakota replied: "We're saying we can't afford to
subsidize salaries over $1 million a year."
   -- Two provisions would help domestic automakers at the
expense of imports. One, which Sen. Bentsen included for
Michigan's Sen. Donald Riegle, would reclassify certain
foreign minivans and sporting vehicles -- such as Britain's
Range Rover and Japan's Isuzu Trooper -- as trucks rather
than cars for tariff purposes, thus raising their customs
duties tenfold to 25%. The change would raise an estimated $1
billion over five years.
   Another provision, like one in the House-passed bill,
would keep a 10% luxury tax on autos priced higher than
$30,000. That price threshold would be indexed for inflation.
   -- The luxury tax on yachts, private planes, furs and
jewelry would be repealed. Mr. Bush and the House have called
for this.
   -- Independent oil and gas producers who pay the
alternative minimum tax would receive tax relief. The
provision was sought not only by the panel's oil-state
Democrats, but also by Sen. Dole. He released a letter from
Treasury Secretary Nicholas Brady supporting the move.
   -- College students could participate in a new program of
government loans that would be paid back through payroll
deductions; small businesses and financial institutions are
opposed. Separately, ex-students would have a choice of a
deduction or a tax credit of as much as $300 on interest paid
for past college loans.
   -- The excise tax on ozone-depleting chemicals would be
increased.
   -- Taxes on securities firms' inventories would be
increased. Mr. Bush and the House have proposed similar
action. But the Senate tax-writers joined the House in
rejecting Mr. Bush's proposals that would raise taxes on
annuities and corporate-owned life insurance; both industries
have heavily lobbied against the administration proposals.
   -- To help pay for the real-estate provisions, the
depreciation period for commercial buildings would be
extended to 40 years from 31 1/2 currently.