Marketing  Media:
   Canada Publisher
   Drops Book Plans
   About Bronfmans
   ----
   By Suzanne McGee
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
In his letter to Macmillan, Mr. L'Heureux voiced concerns
about "defamatory aspects" of articles about Hees and other
Bronfman companies written by Ms. Noble for Canada's Globe
and Mail newspaper. "Our experience suggests that at least
some portions of the manuscript will be actionable if
published," he said in the letter.
   Tom Reid, a spokesman for Hees, said the company was
"taken aback" by Macmillan's decision not to publish. "Not
one of us dreamed that {Mr. Besse} would back off," he said,
adding that the intent of the letter was simply to "caution"
Macmillan of what he described as Ms. Noble's apparent
"contempt" for Hees and its officials.
   The debate over Ms. Noble's manuscript, which has yet to
be submitted to Macmillan, highlights the difficulties faced
by Canadian publishers who want to print controversial
material about any of the large conglomerates or wealthy
individuals that dominate the country's business scene.
   "In this country, it's almost impossible to beat anyone
with financial muscle in a libel battle," said Clayton Ruby,
a Toronto lawyer familiar with Canadian libel laws. "We have
much narrower free speech rules here than in the U.S. and our
libel insurance rates and deductibles are calculated on the
basis of judgments awarded in the U.S."
   In the U.S., where jury awards in libel cases are
sometimes in the millions of dollars, the average deductible
on a libel insurance policy is $100,000, according to Mr.
Ruby.
   For libel insurance purposes, Canada is considered
internationally as part of the North American "pool," Mr.
Ruby says, even though judgments rarely exceed $30,000 to
$40,000. Given the size of the Canadian publishing market,
about a tenth the size of that of the U.S., it means
publishers can rarely afford to go to court to defend books,
especially in the midst of a recession.
   "Even the publicity we generated through a defense
wouldn't sell enough books to cover our deductible," said
Macmillan's Mr. Besse.
   In recent years, Toronto's Reichmann family has sued
Toronto Life magazine, seeking 102 million Canadian dollars
(US$88.1 million), alleging an article it published about the
family's early years defamed them. After exhausting their $1
million of libel insurance in a prolonged battle, the
magazine settled, issuing an apology and paying a group of
charities an undisclosed sum.
   Marq de Villiers, the magazine's editor, said that Toronto
Life has succeeded in finding new insurance coverage. "I'd
like to say that {the Reichmann suit} doesn't make us
cautious about what we publish, but the fact is that the
magazine can't take another hit like that," he said.
   "What the libel laws do is serve those who have money,
time and power," said John Ralston Saul, president of the
writers' rights group, PEN Canada. "As a result, what we have
is libel chill and self-censorship."
   Mr. Saul and the organization are battling for changes to
Canada's libel laws, to include a definition of a "public
figure," to exempt fiction and satire, and to seek speedy
handling of libel cases by the courts. He says he also hopes
Canadian publishers will be able to create some form of
co-operative libel insurance program based on domestic
experience.
   In the meantime, Ms. Noble says that even if Macmillan
sticks to its decision not to publish her book, she will keep
writing and seek another publisher.
   "I think it's important for people to better understand a
group that is the largest conglomerate in the Canadian
business world," she said. "I set out to demystify {the
Bronfman empire}. That's a journalist's job."
   Margaret Wente, editor of the Globe  Mail's business
section, said that Ms. Noble won a Canadian newspaper award
for the series of articles on which the book is to be based.
She said the Globe and Ms. Noble have never been sued by the
Hees group, and that the paper has printed only "technical,
not substantive" corrections to the stories.