Bon Ton Stores
   Says Profit Rose
   In Quarter, Year
   ----
   By Robert J. Brennan
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Mr. Gleim, in an interview, said Bon Ton expects to report
fiscal fourth-quarter and full-year earnings of 68 to 70
cents a share and 89 to 93 cents a share, respectively. "I'm
confident we'll be on the high side of those ranges," added
Mr. Gleim. That's in line with the estimate of the two
analysts who are following the company.
   Bon Ton operates several dozen stores, mainly in
Pennsylvania but also in Maryland, West Virginia and New
York.
   The results for the year ended Jan. 31 compare with pro
forma earnings of 75 cents a share for the year-before
quarter and 67 cents a share for fiscal 1991. Recent
per-share earnings were affected by an increase in the number
of shares outstanding because of last year's initial public
offering. Most retailers, with fiscal years ending in January
or early February, make the bulk of their profits in the
fourth quarter with the Christmas shopping season. Also, Mr.
Gleim said, companies often use the slower quarters to spend
on capital programs, further accentuating the profit swing
from the fourth quarter.
   The company previously reported sales for the quarter and
year rose 4.9% and 8.4%, respectively, to $103.8 million and
$298 million. Comparable-store sales were up 2.9% for the
quarter and 6.4% for the year. "We're pretty happy about
that. Most retailers have had a flat to down business," Mr.
Gleim noted. He said annual sales per square foot, excluding
those of leased departments, are currently $149 to $150, and
he hopes to see that sales measurement grow about 5% a year.
Average store size for Bon Ton is about 80,000 square feet,
he said.
   Bon Ton Stores made an initial public offering last
September of 3.5 million shares at $13 each. The publicly
traded shares represent about 33% of total shares
outstanding, but only about 6% of voting power. Shares
outstanding include about 6.4 million Class A shares with
supervoting rights, held almost entirely by members of the
founding Grumbacher family. M. Thomas Grumbacher is the
current chairman.
   Mr. Gleim said "we intend to continue our secondary market
strategy," which includes opening new stores and making
sensible acquisitions. He cited the recent agreement to
acquire Watt  Shand Inc., which operates two department
stores in Lancaster, Pa. "That was extremely good for us," he
said, because Lancaster has only one shopping mall and Bon
Ton can hold a dominant retail position there.
   Bon Ton's strategy is to stick to secondary markets with
less retail competition than big urban areas. "We want to
dominate in the things we sell. If a competitor has more in
home products, we will scale back in that area to concentrate
on apparel, where we can be a leader," the official said.
   He said growth is strong in Maryland towns, where it has
some stores, as people move away from the immediate area
around Washington, D.C. Further, he said, the company has
identified "about 25 contiguous areas" to its current markets
that are candidates for expansion.
   The company also has worked hard in figuring out the
demographics of the areas it serves. "Many of our markets
don't have strong population growth, but on the other hand,
there's not a lot of retail competition there," Mr. Gleim
said. "In these communities, people can actually have a
higher percentage of disposable income, despite the overall
economic trend." He said that's "mainly because housing is so
much cheaper," but also because other costs of living are
lower.
   "Our core customer is a moderate-income man or woman, age
25 to 55, with income from the low $30,000 range to
mid-$50,000," Mr. Gleim said. Naturally, there are other
customers, Mr. Gleim said, "but there are enough of the core
type for us to do well."
   People are also financially conservative in Bon Ton's
markets, Mr. Gleim said. "They tend to pay their bills
quickly, and our bad-debt picture is much better than for
major market retailers." Bon Ton's delinquent accounts are
less than 1% of credit sales, compared with 2% to 3% for big
retailers, he said. People in these markets want some
fashion, but they also want reasonable prices, Mr. Gleim
said. Some of its leading brand lines are Liz Claiborne, Levi
Strauss, Estee Lauder and Esprit. While the company has done
relatively well, like other retailers its profit has been
under pressure from promotions such as sales or markdowns.
   Bon Ton's merchandise line is mainly apparel, which
accounts for about 72% of sales, Mr. Gleim said. Cosmetics
account for 8%, accessories 9% and home products, including
bed and bath items, 10%. A few stores also sell furniture.
   Liz Claiborne Inc. is Bon Ton's single biggest vendor,
accounting for about 7% of sales volume, Mr. Gleim said. "Our
strategy is to be a fashion leader at all price ranges.
Fashion doesn't have to be determined solely by price," he
added.
   The company's debt equals about 40% of total capital, Mr.
Gleim said. After the public offering, Bon Ton had roughly
$25 million in cash available, and after completion of the
purchase of Watt  Shand, it should still have cash on hand
of $12 million to $15 million, Mr. Gleim said.