Board of Contributors:
   Revise Bank Capital Standards Now
   ----
   By Martin Feldstein
The Basel standard requires banks to have $4 of equity
capital for every $100 of "risk-weighted" assets. In
calculating its risk-weighted assets, a bank gives full
weight to business loans but only a 50% weight to home
mortgages and no weight at all to Treasury bonds. Thus a bank
with $800 million of business loans, $400 million of
mortgages and $200 million of government bonds would have
$1.4 billion of total assets but only $1 billion of
risk-weighted assets; the Basel rules would require it to
have at least $40 million of equity capital. The Basel rules
also require banks to have at least $8 of total capital --
including funds raised by issuing bonds and certain preferred
stock as well as common equity -- per $100 of risk-weighted
assets.
   Before this standard became officially effective, the
domestic regulators imposed the leverage capital requirement
on American banks. The leverage standard varies from bank to
bank based on the judgment of each bank's own supervisors.
Every bank is required to have at least $3 of equity capital
for every $100 of loans and assets on its books, with no
adjustment for risk differences. But the $3 is an absolute
minimum. In practice, the supervisors generally require banks
to have between $4.50 and $5.50 of equity capital per $100 of
assets with the amount depending on the supervisors' judgment
about the quality of the bank's assets and earnings. The
higher this "leverage standard" -- i.e., the more equity
capital that the bank needs per $100 of loans -- the less
that it is able to lend.
   It is often easier for a bank to meet the Basel standard
than the leverage capital standard. A bank can have more than
enough equity capital to expand its lending under the Basel
standard but still not be able to lend any more in practice
because it could not meet its leverage capital standard if it
increased its lending. The $1.4 billion bank described above
needed only $40 million of equity capital to meet its Basel
standard but would require $70 million of capital to meet a
5% leverage capital requirement.
   If the bank actually had $50 million of equity capital, it
could do an additional $250 million of lending before it was
limited by the Basel standard, but it would be prevented from
doing any additional lending because of the leverage
standard. Indeed, it would have to shrink in size by $400
million to comply with its leverage capital requirement.
   The combination of significant capital requirements and
careful regulatory supervision is important to prevent the
kind of excessive risk taking that got so many banks and
thrifts into trouble in the 1980s. When financial
institutions were allowed to operate with little or no equity
capital, taking big risks was a heads-I-win-tails-you-lose
option. As long as the taxpayers continue to protect most
depositors, there is good reason to require equity capital as
an incentive for prudent behavior and a buffer between loan
losses and government deposit insurance.
   But excessive capital requirements also create problems
for the economy. Current bank capital requirements limit the
ability of healthy banks to expand their lending to
businesses and households. This particularly hurts smaller
businesses that cannot issue commercial paper or bonds and
that are dependent on one or two banks for all of their
borrowing needs. The inability of these businesses to borrow
is a drag on the whole economy and a particularly serious
problem in some regions and industries.
   This problem is likely to become even more serious when a
stronger recovery increases businesses' needs for capital to
finance additional inventories, increased wages, and new
equipment. Without additional bank lending, these businesses
will be unable to expand and the recovery as a whole will be
weakened.
   There is a widely shared concern in the government and
private sectors that the bank capital regulations and overly
tight supervision have created a credit crunch that is
preventing a stronger economic recovery. But until now the
government actions to alleviate regulatory stringency have
been concentrated on such technical things as the method of
evaluating banks' real estate assets and the guidelines for
bank lending to borrowers in difficulty. These actions have
been rightly criticized as relatively ineffective.
   A more fundamental reform would substantially increase the
ability of banks to lend without any change in the Basel
capital standards. It would change the extra domestically
imposed "leverage capital requirement" to a uniform 3%
standard. Some recent analysis that I have been doing with
Richard Syron, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of
Boston, indicates that this change in the leverage capital
requirement would more than double the amount of additional
lending that New England banks could currently do.
   According to the analysis done at the Federal Reserve Bank
of Boston, the domestically imposed leverage capital standard
(rather than the international Basel standard) limits the
lending of four of the five top New England banks and half of
all the New England banks with assets of more than $1
billion. If the New England banks had to satisfy only the
international capital standards and a 3% leverage capital
ratio (instead of the current variable leverage standard),
they could increase their business lending by more than twice
as much as they can under existing rules.
   The continuation of some leverage capital requirement is
probably justified because the Basel risk-based capital
standard makes no allowance for any risk other than default
risk. A bank could therefore in principle take substantial
risk through an interest-rate mismatch (holding long-term
bonds funded with short-term deposits) without having to have
any capital if the bonds are Treasury securities. A uniform
3% leverage ratio would prevent this without the adverse
effects of the current variable leverage capital standard.
The combination of the Basel capital requirement on
risk-adjusted assets and a uniform 3% leverage capital
requirement on all assets would achieve a sound capital
standard without strangling bank lending.
   A decision to shift to a uniform 3% leverage standard can
be made by America's three banking regulators -- the Federal
Reserve Board, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. and the
comptroller of the currency -- without legislation and
without consulting authorities in other countries. Now that
the Basel capital requirements are officially in effect, the
time has come to make that revision. Doing so would help
banks to provide the loans that will be needed for a healthy
recovery.
   ---
   Mr. Feldstein, former chairman of the president's Council
of Economic Advisers, is a professor of economics at Harvard.