Economy:
   Greenspan Sees `Stirrings' of Recovery;
   Comments Suggest Rate Cut Isn't Likely
   ----
   By David Wessel
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
"There are reasons to believe that business activity
should pick up," said Mr. Greenspan. He pointed to recent
improvements in the housing and retail industries, a modest
increase in factory orders, signs of life in industrial
production as monitored weekly by the Fed, a recent pickup in
money-supply growth and indications that business and
household balance sheets are strengthening.
   Fed policy makers, in their written semiannual report
submitted yesterday to Congress, said cuts in interest rates
last year are "expected to provide effective support for
economic growth this year." They added, "In this regard, the
early indications of a marked pickup in residential real
estate activity and a rise in retail sales are a particularly
favorable sign."
   But, the report said, the Fed policy makers also stressed
at their meeting earlier this month "that economic
developments need to be monitored closely to guard against
the possibility that the economy might falter."
   Mr. Greenspan was similarly cautious yesterday about
promising a rebound. That may be, in part, because he told
the same committee just six months earlier that he saw
"compelling signs" that the economy was growing. That turned
out to be a false start -- and so could the current glimmer
of recovery. "It could just as easily peter out, as indeed
the much more vigorous recovery of last spring petered out,"
the Fed chairman said.
   As a result, he said, the Fed will be "particularly
sensitive to signs that the anticipated strengthening in
business activity isn't emerging." He said the central bank
will be "prepared to act should the need arise."
   But after some prompting from Rep. Charles Schumer (D.,
N.Y.), Mr. Greenspan acknowledged that his carefully chosen
phrases were "somewhat more optimistic than in recent
testimony," a hint that Mr. Greenspan is increasingly likely
to sit tight rather than cut rates immediately.
   Although some Fed officials are prepared to cut rates
again to ensure a healthy economic recovery, others are wary.
That's partly because they want to avoid accusations that
Republican appointees to the Fed are trying to help President
Bush's re-election bid. In addition, they are anxious about
the possibility of big tax cuts this year.
   Forecasts made earlier this month by most Fed board
members and presidents of regional Fed banks suggested the
economy will grow between 1.75% and 2.5% in 1992, far better
than 1991's 0.2% growth. That's in line with the White House
forecast of 2.2% growth for this year.
   Mr. Greenspan told the committee that he sees "clear
signals" that the underlying inflation rate is falling. He
said he sees a good chance that "within the foreseeable
future we will have attained the lowest rates of inflation in
a generation." Fed policy makers anticipate that consumer
prices will climb between 3% and 3.5% this year. Prices rose
only 2.9% last year, but that understated the basic inflation
rate because oil prices retreated during the year after
rising sharply in late 1990.
   Mr. Greenspan disclosed that Fed policy makers agreed to
aim to increase the important M2 measure of the money supply
between 2.5% and 6.5% in 1992, the same range as in 1991. The
M2 measure grew only 3.1% in 1991. M2 consists of currency,
travelers checks, checking accounts and certificates of
deposit under $100,000.
   Mr. Greenspan refused to speculate on why financial
markets reacted so negatively to the Fed's decision to reduce
to 10% from 12% the percentage of checking-account deposits
that banks must hold as reserves. Both the bond and stock
markets yesterday regained some of the ground they lost
Wednesday after the Fed announcement.
   The move will increase bank profits modestly and thus
should make bankers more willing to provide loans, Mr.
Greenspan said. He said banks probably couldn't function with
reserves any slimmer than 10%. "Even though we can't do very
much, doing a little bit -- which is what we did -- is better
than nothing," he said.
   Mr. Greenspan reiterated previous Fed pleas for
congressional authority to pay interest on reserves. Forcing
banks to keep more than $40 billion in accounts that don't
pay interest amounts to a tax on banks, he said.