What's News --
   World-Wide
Peres's Labor Party announced that it would attempt to
topple Shamir's government this week in a parliamentary
no-confidence vote.
   ---
   Democratic presidential hopefuls clashed in a televised
debate in New Hampshire. Arkansas Gov. Clinton, who is
leading in recent statewide polls, drew fire from the other
four candidates over his proposal for a middle-class tax cut.
They also discussed education and crime.
   ---
   Muslim fundamentalists said some of their leaders were
arrested in Algeria. The week-old military-backed government
reportedly seized the fundamentalists after the the bombing
of a police headquarters and the slaying of a soldier.
Algeria on Saturday recalled its envoys from Iran and France
to protest statements against the regime.
   ---
   Consumers demonstrated in Russia and Uzbekistan against
high prices, and two other former Soviet republics reined in
reforms to head off protests. Separately, forces loyal to
Georgia's ousted Gamsakhurdia abandoned one stronghold but
claimed to have repelled troops of the ruling regime in two
cities.
                                                                                                       

   Ukrainian leader Kravchuk ruled out the prospect of a
single army for the Commonwealth of Independent States, and
he emphasized that the process of formation of national
armies in the former Soviet Union couldn't be halted.
   ---
   Bulgaria's incumbent leader won the country's first direct
presidential vote by a surprisingly slim margin, according to
incomplete results from yesterday's runoff election.
Pro-Western reformer Zhelev captured 53% of the vote to
defeat a socialist-backed candidate, Valkanov, the state news
agency BTA said.
   ---
   Serbia and Croatia accused each other of violating
Yugoslavia's two-week-old ceasefire, after four people were
killed during weekend fighting that put renewed strains on
the truce agreement.
   ---
   Researchers in Boston reported preliminary human tests
with an experimental drug for adult-onset diabetes indicating
that the drug can regulate blood sugar better than injected
insulin can. The drug, called insulinotropin, is a naturally
occurring hormone.
   ---
   Defense Secretary Cheney cautioned against being "overly
fixated on Saddam Hussein," but predicted the Iraqi leader
eventually would be toppled. The New York Times, quoting
unidentified U.S. and Saudi officials, reported that Saudi
Arabia was urging the U.S. to organize a large, covert
campaign to remove Saddam Hussein.
   ---
   Rheumatologists' case reports are seen as evidence of a
possible link between silicone breast implants and
immune-system disorders. The hundreds of case reports from
around the country will be evaluated next month by the FDA
before it decides whether to ban or drastically curtail use
of the implants.
   ---
   The Iranian government paid Lebanese kidnappers for the
upkeep of their American hostages and between $1 million and
$2 million for the release of each hostage, the Washington
Post reported. A Bush administration official, commenting on
the report, told the Associated Press that the Iranians acted
"completely on their own."
   ---
   Haiti's ousted leader Aristide met in Washington with
Organization of American States officials Saturday and said
he is determined to regain his post and remove the general
who ousted him Sept. 30. But Aristide's prospects for
returning as Haiti's president faded when the nation's
current rulers boycotted the OAS meeting.
   ---
   Minority enrollment grew 10% at U.S. colleges between 1988
and 1990, though the deteriorating economy threatens to
reverse some of the increase, the American Council on
Education said. The council's status report showed that the
enrollment gains were small for blacks and Hispanics but
substantial for Asian students.
   ---
   The Zaire government announced it was suspending "until
further notice" the proceedings of a national conference set
up to chart a democratic future for the African country.
Prime Minister Nguza said in a televised statement that
certain decisions taken by the group were threatening to
"create a political crisis."