The Work Ethic Is
   A Living Thing
   To the Morgans
   ---
   Florida Family Had Means --
   Spiritual Not Financial --
   To Raise 18 Children Well
   ----
   By Eric Morgenthaler
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Mrs. Morgan took the dream as a sign from God, for the
Morgans recently had become born-again Christians. Over the
next two decades, despite sometimes grinding poverty on their
small farm near this Florida Panhandle town, the Morgans
pursued their calling: They had babies.
   First came Betty. The next year Elijah arrived. Then
Isaiah and Walter, and then came the twins: Daisy and
Hezekiah. Next was Zechariah, then Paul and John and Marie
and Joseph. Then Samuel and Nepton and Randolph and Nadine.
And Patricia and Geraldine. Finally, Nehemiah, who was born
in 1968 -- the year Betty, the oldest, graduated from
Bethune-Cookman College in Daytona Beach.
   In all, the Morgans had 18 children: six girls and 12
boys.
   "Lots of noise, lots of noise," Mrs. Morgan says, clasping
her hands and laughing gaily, as she describes life with a
houseful of kids -- all born at home except Betty, who was
born in a hospital. "Whenever they would go out and go for
the school bus, it seemed like a storm had blown through.
Lots of noise, lots of laughter, lots of chatter. But I
endured it."
   She did better than that. All 18 of the children graduated
from high school. Ten went on to do at least some college
work, largely with grants and loans. Today, even in a
recession, all have good jobs. There are two brick masons, a
carpenter, two chefs, an Army and a Navy noncom, a
beautician, a postal clerk, a computer operator, a teacher
and a corrections officer. Elijah, Isaiah and John are
ministers in the Church of Christ Written in Heaven, the
Pentecostal sect to which their parents belong. The four
eldest of the Morgans' 46 grand-children are now in college.
   In 1978, after Mrs. Morgan got the last of her own
children into elementary school (and thus out of the house)
she went back to school herself, for she had dropped out of
high school to marry. In 1980, she graduated from the local
junior college, then began working in special education. Her
husband, who is 76, is retired from his last wage work, as a
custodian, but he still farms their 40 acres.
   "The Lord blessed me," says Mrs. Morgan, a gracious,
soft-spoken 65-year-old. "I have much to be thankful for."
   The Morgans are notable for having successfully raised
such a large family under difficult conditions. But their
life also is a lesson in values. "We were raised different
than a lot of families," says Nehemiah. "We were raised to
work."
   "I would go by that house and see them in the fields, and
they were so little that when they hit that hoe they would
bounce," says their 83-year-old neighbor Pandora Merritt.
   The children were rousted out of bed as early as five in
the morning, to do chores before school -- milking cows,
chopping peanuts, shelling peas, cleaning house. After
school, there was more work to do. The boys, as well as the
girls, ironed clothes and cooked; even the toddlers didn't
get off scot-free.
   "As soon as they started walking, when they threw
something down, I'd teach them to pick it up," says Mrs.
Morgan. "Because if they didn't do it, I was going to have
to. I sure wasn't going to live in a dirty house."
   The Morgans raised their family, and live today, deep in
the pine woods, down a red-dirt road about six miles south of
this little town near the Alabama line. Mossdraped live oaks
shade the property, and near the house are pear, pecan, fig
and peach trees. Mustard greens, English peas, broccoli and
cauliflower are growing in the garden. Mr. Morgan still has a
field of sugar cane, from which he makes syrup.
   The farm is part of a close-knit black neighborhood known,
after a church nearby, as the Jerusalem Community. As many as
40 families live in an area of about two square miles. Mr.
Morgan's family has been in the county for at least three
generations. He, himself, was one of 18 children. He and his
wife settled here, on 40 acres he had purchased next to his
father's farm, soon after their marriage. (They had met and
married in Waco, Texas, her hometown, when he was in the Air
Force.) Six of Walter and Annie's children have homes on
family property, as do Mr. Morgan's three sisters.
   Although the Morgans had some very hard years, their basic
needs were always met. "We didn't have a lot of money, but we
always had food to eat, because we raised it," says Elijah,
the oldest son.
   However, they lived in something of a time warp. They
plowed their fields behind mules until the 1950s, when they
got a tractor. They took their corn to a mill to be ground;
they put up canned goods. They had no electricity, running
water or central heat until the 1960s, and they didn't have a
telephone until nearly the end of that decade. When Mrs.
Morgan wanted to get a message to a neighbor, she would send
a note with one of the children. They got their first TV set
in the early '70s.
   They used to do their laundry on washboards -- a big job
with all those babies. "You talk about diapers," says Mrs.
Morgan. "Oh man, we went through some diapers in those days.
And when the weather was bad, we had to dry them indoors."
Even when they got a washing machine, they had to haul
well-water to fill it.
   The children bathed in a big tin tub, with water heated on
the kitchen stove. They never had bicycles and had few toys.
They amused themselves outdoors, making castles of pine
needles, or rolling old tires down country paths. "It was a
lot of fun," says Elijah. "We always had someone to play
with."
   In 1957, just before Christmas, a kerosene stove exploded
and the Morgans' house burned down. Nobody was injured, but
Mrs. Morgan, who was seven months pregnant with her 11th
child at the time, recalls the fire as "the worst thing that
ever happened." The family moved into a tiny two-room house,
with a tin roof and tar-paper siding that looked like brick.
The six oldest boys slept in one bed.
   The Morgans lived in the little house for two years, and
two babies were born there. As the Morgans saved money, they
bought and stockpiled materials to build a new home -- the
four-bedroom ranch-style house they live in today. They were
hard years, but the children have happy memories.
   "Even in that little house, we didn't feel poor or that we
were missing anything," says Isaiah, "because we were all
together and the bond of love was there -- and that made the
difference."
   The children give their parents the credit for that. The
Morgans were strict but loving. "Mamma was a person you could
always talk to," says Zechariah. "She always had her arms
open." The family always had daily prayers and Bible reading,
went to church on Sunday and conducted an at-home service
every Wednesday night.
   (Mr. Morgan was a disciplinarian. Recalling the only time
a child of his ran away from home, for two or three days, he
says: "He wanted to do his own thing. I said you won't do it
here.")
   The parental guidance extended to racial matters. "They
taught us to love everyone," says Zechariah. "They never
taught prejudice and hatred."
   Before the civil-rights era, the Morgan children had few
contacts with whites. Aside from the occasional visit to
town, where segregation was strictly enforced, "Our only
encounter was at the school-bus stop, when the white bus
would pass and the kids would yell things at us out the
window," says Zechariah. Betty says segregation "was
something we just accepted, until the change came."
   Daisy was the first in the family to attend school with
whites, in the first year of integration at Marianna High
School in the mid-'60s. "Someone would make a slur or a
comment, and you'd fight back," she says. "But I had double
trouble because when I got home, I had to deal with Mom and
Dad."
   Now that her children are grown, Mrs. Morgan is still
mothering. She works as a teacher's aide in a program for
handicapped adults. "They need the same thing children at
home need," she says. "They need love. They need to know
somebody cares."