Tax Report:
   A Special Summary and Forecast
   Of Federal and State Tax
   Developments
   ----
   By Scott R. Schmedel
August says the ruling also bars estate-tax deductions for
a business owner who, as is common, co-signs loans to his own
firm. But in a recent reply to CPA Barry Lockwood of Markle
Stuckey Clark  Co., San Francisco, an IRS official states
the ruling from his office didn't cover that issue and adds:
"The mere existence of the guarantee as an encumbrance on a
marital trust or bequest would not cause disallowance of the
marital deduction in any case." August says he was surprised
when he saw a copy of the letter signed by Richard
Grosgebauer.
   August believes the letter reflects IRS awareness that the
ruling was wrong on this point and says it may indicate where
the review is heading.
                                                                                                       

   YOU CAN'T MARK OUT the sales tax on this foreign exchange.
   New York state officials say they have squelched schemes
by 15 German nationals working in Dutchess County to avoid
$20,000 in sales taxes on some $275,000 of auto purchases.
Tax Commissioner Wetzler says the buyers told dealers the
sales were exempt from the 7.25% tax because the cars would
be shipped to relatives in Germany. Then the buyers
registered the cars in their own names in New York -- but as
exempt gifts from their foreign relatives.
   Suspicious of the gift claims, motor-vehicles-department
workers called the tax agency, Wetzler says. Now the auto
agency has begun requiring proof of shipment before granting
export exemptions. The state will seek unpaid taxes and
perhaps civil penalties from the buyers, Wetzler adds, but
the dealers aren't accused of any wrongdoing. Wetzler won't
identify the buyers, but he says they are IBM employees.
                                                                                                       

   THE TELLTALE ART isn't worn on the novelist's sleeve.
   And so an exempt educational foundation plans to finance
psychotherapy for a dozen fiction writers (none able to pay
for it) by researchers who will study the effects of
treatment on creativity. A worthy project -- but the plot
thickens. The unidentified foundation will pay three of its
board members and its research director to analyze the first
four writers. That move could compromise the foundation's
exempt status.
   Now private ruling 9201035 (we couldn't put it down)
allays any anxiety, in the IRS version of a happy ending. The
analysts are to be paid market rates or less and to have no
voice in their own pay. The program's public benefits foster
the foundation's exempt aims and far outweigh any personal
benefits to foundation directors. Thus, the program doesn't
involve "self-dealing" with associated individuals and
doesn't jeopardize the foundation's overall exemption.
   Finally, the ruling says, the program itself doesn't
involve taxable spending.
                                                                                                       

   AN OWNER-EMPLOYEE holding over 2% of an S corporation's
stock needn't pay Social Security tax on the value of company
medical benefits, including insurance premiums, IRS
Announcement 92-16 says. The statement answers tax
practitioners' recent inquiries. It doesn't apply to
partners, though, notes Deborah Walker of KPMG Peat Marwick.
                                                                                                       

   THE MAXIMUM PAYMENT into a 401(k) retirement plan allowed
in 1992 rises to $8,728 from $8,475 in 1991, IRS Information
Release IR-92-3 says. Cost-of-living adjustments also raise
the maximum annual withdrawal from a defined-benefit pension
plan to $112,221 from $108,963.
                                                                                                       

   CHEATS WHO EVADE TAX on legal income will get more
attention from crime investigators, the IRS promises. Heeding
calls to fix an overemphasis on narcotics and other
illegal-income cases, it announces over a dozen
administrative actions to ensure a proper balance in its use
of agents.
                                                                                                       

   IN OVER THEIR HEADS, the roofing repairmen turned a leak
into a flood.
   Richard H. Marx of Highland Park, Ill., paid repairmen
$1,550 in 1972 to fix a leak in a 10-year-old roof. When next
it rained, there were 15 leaks. After more repairs, the
ceiling fell in during a storm. The contractor gave up. Marx
sued for breach of contract and warranty and won a judgment
for $13,000 in 1975, but never could collect. In 1975, he
spent $17,378 to replace the whole roof. He deducted that,
$943 in related costs and $5,961 in legal costs as a casualty
loss.
   But the IRS denied the claim; a casualty loss must stem
from a sudden event, not deterioration. Marx appealed to the
Tax Court. Now Judge Goffe agrees the original leak doesn't
justify a deduction -- but he says the repairers' negligence
does. Still, only repair, not replacement, counts. The judge
allows a deduction of only $3,335 for necessary repairs and
related costs.
   And the judge has rejected any deduction at all for the
legal costs.
                                                                                                       

   BRIEFS: While deadlines for filing to the IRS are March 2
for Form W-2 wage reports and Feb. 28 for Form 1099 payment
reports, as we noted earlier, payers must send copies to
employees and payment recipients by Jan. 31. . . . The Ways
and Means Committee plans hearings Jan. 28 and 29 and Feb. 26
on a group of expiring tax breaks.