IMF Funding for Former Soviet Union
   Is Mired in a Bush-Congress Standoff
   ----
   By Robert S. Greenberger
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
"This is such a crucial issue for our country's
self-interest," says Sen. Nancy Kassebaum (R., Kan.), who is
part of a bipartisan effort to urge both Congress and the
White House to move faster. "I think it takes the leadership
of a president to make people understand why this is so
important to us."
   Recently, former President Nixon and even Mr. Bush's own
envoy to Moscow, Robert Strauss, have complained that the
administration's cautious approach risks missing an important
chance to shape the post-Cold War world. And officials such
as Treasury Secretary Nicholas Brady call the IMF the
linchpin of any rescue operation of the former Soviet Union.
   But the watchword at the White House is prudence --
especially while it is feeling pressure on the right from
Patrick Buchanan. The president's big primary victories this
week over his conservative challenger may yet prove to give
him some maneuvering room on foreign aid.
   For the moment, though, Bush aides are arguing that
pouring money into the former Soviet Union before stringent
economic reforms are in place would be ineffective at best.
During a conference here last week sponsored by the Nixon
Library, Edward Hewett, the National Security Council staff
member for Russian policy, said that the West recently has
injected $44 billion into the former Soviet Union. And, he
pointedly said, "No one knows quite where it went."
   Mr. Hewett insisted that "all of us agree on the stakes
here." But he argued that it's important for the U.S. to
operate through the IMF in order to ensure the money is used
effectively to promote reform. "I don't think there's any
other way to do it."
   On Capitol Hill, lawmakers complain about White House
prudence but aren't ready to lead the way themselves. But if
the IMF replenishment isn't written into law soon,
election-year politics and the legislative calendar could
delay passage for at least a year. That would be too late,
some economists warn, to head off hyperinflation and other
economic catastrophes that could bring massive social unrest.
Also, without fresh funds, the IMF may be hard-pressed to
meet its other expanding commitments in the former Soviet
satellite states of Eastern Europe, as well as its programs
in Latin America and Africa.
   "The till may not be empty by the end of the year, but it
will be getting there," warns an administration official who
monitors the IMF closely.
   It isn't that President Bush opposes aiding the former
Soviet Union. The problem is that he hasn't been vocal enough
about his support to provide congressional leaders with the
political cover they feel they need in an election year. In a
letter in October 1990 to Sen. Patrick Leahy, the Vermont
Democrat who is chairman of the Senate Appropriations
subcommittee on foreign operations, Mr. Bush pledged to
"strongly support" the IMF and the $12 billion increase.
   But lawmakers like Sen. Leahy remember being mousetrapped
by a Republican president in 1983, during the last IMF
replenishment. Back then, several Democrats, including Sen.
Leahy, went along with President Reagan and supported an
increase. In the following year's election campaign they were
targets of a letterwriting effort and commercials by
Republicans criticizing them for endorsing foreign aid. Now,
amid recession and a national isolationist mood, they are
saying: After you, Mr. President.
   "I will not stand to have any senator, especially a
Republican senator, suggest that I'm the one holding up
something that the president will not come out in favor of,"
Sen. Leahy said during a recent hearing.
   President Bush missed a chance to send such a public
signal to lawmakers last week during a speech at the artfully
publicized session put on by Mr. Nixon. Instead, he
sidestepped Mr. Nixon's pointed criticisms and made only
general comments about the need to support reform in the
former Soviet Union.
   Oddly, one reason U.S. policy-makers like the idea of
funneling aid through a multinational agency like the IMF is
that it was supposed to shield them from complaints that they
were overly distracted by foreign affairs. The IMF also would
insist that Russia and the other republics take certain tough
economic steps before aid would be provided -- a disciplinary
role that would be awkward for the U.S. to play.
   Russia and several other former Soviet republics are
likely to be admitted to the IMF next month. After that, says
Sen. Richard Lugar, an Indiana Republican who strongly
supports aid to the former Soviet Union, "The Russians will
be looking for a response from the U.S., and that response
should be support for the IMF replenishment."
   Once IMF reform measures are in place, the U.S. and other
nations will consider setting up a ruble stabilization fund.
U.S. officials estimate that such a fund could require as
much as $12 billion, with about half needed to bolster
Russia's currency. These measures are expected to encourage
private investment in the fledgling economies of the former
Soviet Union.
   But that may not happen if the U.S. doesn't act now,
lawmakers say. Now is the time, says Sen. Lugar, for
President Bush to offer "a comprehensive view" of U.S. policy
toward the republics. "We have a remarkable opportunity," he
says. He hopes the administration won't let it slip away.