ATT Cuts Rate
   On Credit Cards
   One Point to 15.4%
   ----
   By Peter Pae
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Although it has become one of the largest issuers of
cards, ATT ranks only 10th in balances outstanding that
incur finance charges because they aren't paid back in full
each month.
   Still, the amount owed by ATT cardholders grew nearly 60%
in the last six months to $3.8 billion from $2.4 billion. But
ATT's balances outstanding are still far behind Citicorp,
which has $34.15 billion in balances outstanding and Chase
Manhattan Corp., with $10.31 billion.
   For ATT cardholders, the rate cuts have been a major
boon. ATT's card rate, which is pegged to the bank's prime
lending rate, has been lowered a total of 3.5 percentage
points since April 1991. On an annualized basis that
represents a $133 million savings on the $3.8 billion of ATT
cardholder balances outstanding.
   ATT's biggest competitors have kept their rates at about
19.8%, with the industry average remaining stubbornly high at
about 18.6%. The widening spread is prompting an increasing
number of cardholders to seek out lower-rate cards such as
ATT's Universal card.
   "ATT has changed the competitive equation," says Robert
B. McKinley, president of RAM Research Corp., a credit-card
research firm. "Banks feel the pressure and they're trying to
figure out what to do with their rate structure."
   Since introducing the card with much fanfare two years
ago, ATT jumped ahead of the largest banks last month to
become the third largest issuer of Visa and MasterCard credit
cards. It has been able to gain market share by offering
cards with no annual fee to those who signed up in the first
year and by the rate reductions.
   Several large card issuers, including Chase and Household
International are reportedly considering changes in rates and
fees. A Chase spokesman said it "continually reviews the
rates," but added that he knew of "no rate changes in the
works." Household declined to comment.
   Citicorp, the nation's largest credit-card issuer, said it
also "always look at factors including pricing," but declined
to elaborate. A spokesman asserted, however, that ATT's rate
reduction doesn't put pressure on the bank to lower its
rates, although he noted that ATT "does add pressure on the
bank to offer alternative cards . . ."
   ATT's 15.4% rate applies to cardholders who signed up
during the first year of the cards introduction. Cardholders
who acquired the card after the charter membership period
will see their rates reduced to 16.4% from 17.4%, effective
April 1.