Politics  Policy:
   Bush Rejects Aggressive Steps in Facing
   Congress Over Deadline for Growth Plan
   ----
   By Michel McQueen and John Harwood
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
Proposals considered but discarded include a prime-time
address from the Oval Office criticizing Congress, a
unilateral attempt to exercise a line-item veto of individual
spending programs and a full-scale campaign to limit
congressional terms.
   Last week, Treasury Secretary Nicholas Brady ruled out
another step advocated by conservatives in and outside the
government to show Mr. Bush's clout: to have the president
unilaterally cut the capital gains tax by regulation. Mr.
Brady said the president lacks the legal authority to do
that.
   Instead, President Bush is expected to announce a more
modest series of steps to express his disappointment with
Congress for failing to adopt his proposed tax package by
today, the deadline he set in his Jan. 28 State of the Union
address. Although lawmakers will probably vote on their
version today, Mr. Bush says he considers it unacceptable and
will veto it immediately if it is passed.
   Mr. Bush, at a speech currently scheduled for 4 p.m. EST
today to an audience of Republican lawmakers and other
political leaders, is expected to call for Congress to
rescind funding for certain projects it has already approved,
calling them a waste of money. GOP lawmakers are expected to
back up Mr. Bush by using congressional rules to force votes
on the spending cuts the president proposes.
   "This will be a rolling announcement beginning tomorrow,"
said Rep. Christopher Cox (R., Calif.). Mr. Cox, who obtained
commitments from more than 100 Republicans to help force
votes on the spending cuts, predicted that votes would take
place "if not daily, then on a regular basis." He said his
GOP colleagues believe they may be able to kill some programs
this way; but that if not, they will at least be able to
embarrass Democrats by forcing them to go on record in
support of dubious programs.
   Mr. Bush is planning to cut as much as $5 billion in
spending on 1,300 federal projects. Targets for elimination
will be drawn from a list buried in Mr. Bush's fiscal 1993
budget, congressional GOP budget sources said. Among others,
that list calls for killing the Commerce Department's
International Trade Adminstration and the Small Business
Administration's tree-planting program. As a first step
today, the president is expected to propose a $1 billion
package to cut 65 to 75 projects or programs.
   Mr. Bush is also expected to extend indefinitely his
moratorium on new federal regulations, and he will repropose
his original economic package.
   The strategy began to fall into place yesterday after
weeks of internal wrangling that highlighted continued
disarray and disagreement in the administration. White House
and campaign aides debated for weeks over everything from
what forum Mr. Bush should use to deliver his message to
Congress to what he should say and how harsh it should be.
   They considered variously an Oval Office address, a formal
evening press conference or a trip out of town. Initially,
White House aides settled on a speech to the National
Republican Women's Federation, but late yesterday Mr. Bush's
campaign officers ruled that out in favor of an audience of
lawmakers.
   The delay in the White House's decisionmaking was all the
more surprising given Mr. Bush's heated rhetoric in
challenging Congress to pass his program, which included a
series of tax cuts for business aimed at spurring economic
growth. The president himself set the deadline as March 20
and warned, "From the day after that, if it must be, the
battle is joined." He added that "when principle is at stake,
I relish a good, fair fight."
   Charles Black, senior adviser to the president's
re-election campaign, denied that the administration is in
disarray and insisted that Mr. Bush's remarks today, coupled
with his expected veto of the Democrats' tax bill, represent
a public-relations boon.
   "We get two hits here to make Congress look ineffective
and like tax-and-spenders," he said. The White House plans to
follow up by placing opinion articles in major newspapers and
speakers on news programs. White House aides also insisted
that this is only the start of Mr. Bush's attack on Congress.
   But a more aggressive strategy for attacking Congress and
testing executive authority that was advocated by
conservatives fell by the wayside because of legal and
political objections by top advisers.