Politics  Policy:
   Former Officer
   Of BCCI Held
   In Bribe Case
   ---
   Pakistani Allegedly Paid Off
   Public Officials in U.S.,
   According to Affidavit
   ----
   By Thomas Petzinger Jr. and Peter Truell
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
In an affidavit sworn last week, Christopher Headrick, a
special agent of the Federal Bureau of Investigation,
indicated that Mr. Ahmad was wanted in connection with
investigations by a federal grand jury here and a state grand
jury in Manhattan. The grand juries, the agent explained, are
investigating "allegations that former BCCI officers in the
U.S. bribed public officials," among other things.
   According to the agent's affidavit, John Moscow, an
assistant district attorney in Manhattan, had learned from an
informant that "Mr. Ahmad's duties as head of BCCI's
Washington, D.C., office included the bribery of certain
government officials." The affidavit said the informant also
identified Mr. Ahmad as BCCI's coordinator for "certain types
of industrial espionage," including "the giving and receiving
of commercial bribes."
   The affidavit identified the informant only as a
"longtime, high-ranking official with BCCI," and neither
identified nor speculated on who received any bribes.
   Mr. Ahmad was under detention here after his arrest as a
material witness Friday at the home of a relative in
Williamsburg, Va. He hadn't been charged. He was expected to
be turned over to prosecutors in Manhattan as soon as today.
Officials conducted the arrest after learning from the
informant that Mr. Ahmad planned to leave the U.S. over the
weekend after a stay of about two weeks.
   Authorities have long wondered whether the pattern of
political chicanery that BCCI established elsewhere in the
world -- notably in Pakistan, Africa and Latin America --
also reached into the U.S. It's unclear whether Mr. Ahmad's
arrest will push the BCCI case to a new level of scandal and
intrigue, or whether it will prove another false lead in the
effort to establish the political dimension of the scandal
here. To date, no public officials in the U.S. have been
charged with receiving bribes from BCCI.
   Well before the bank -- which was controlled by BCCI
Holdings (Luxembourg) S.A. -- was seized by Western
regulators on accusations of fraud in July, speculation
abounded about the role of BCCI's Washington office, which
Mr. Ahmad headed in the late 1980s. Though it had no official
banking operations here, the office maintained a staff of
nearly two dozen people and a stable of at least three
Mercedes limousines and a Cadillac. In addition to Mr. Ahmad,
the senior members of the office included several retired
high-ranking Pakistani government officials.
   Amjad Awan, who was convicted of money-laundering charges
last year in federal court in Tampa, Fla., also worked in the
Washington office before transferring to BCCI's Miami office
in the mid-1980s.
   The arrest and joint questioning of Mr. Ahmad further
signals stepped-up cooperation between investigators at the
state level in New York and the federal level here. Robert
Morgenthau, the Manhattan district attorney, has previously
accused the Justice Department of refusing to cooperate in
his investigation of BCCI.
   State and federal officials also recently worked together
on a plea agreement in which BCCI -- though none of the
individuals who operated it -- pleaded guilty to federal
criminal charges.