U.S. Is Protected Against Debtor Claims
   Seeking to Recover Money, Justices Rule
   ----
   By Paul M. Barrett
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Under a centuries-old legal doctrine known as sovereign
immunity, the government is generally protected against legal
actions seeking money damages. But the federal Bankruptcy
Code states that when a government agency formally makes a
claim against a debtor company, it essentially waives
sovereign immunity and opens itself to certain types of
counterclaims by the debtor. One such counterclaim could be
based on an alleged overpayment of taxes.
   In its decision, however, the Supreme Court said that when
a government agency doesn't make a claim in a bankruptcy
case, the code doesn't contain a waiver of sovereign
immunity. The government's immunity is considered to have
been waived only when a statute does so "unequivocally," the
high court said. And the relevant section of the Bankruptcy
Code doesn't contain such a waiver, the court concluded.
   In a 1989 decision, the Supreme Court said that state
governments were similarly protected against monetary claims.
   In the case before the high court, the Justice Department
had warned that if the court interpreted the Bankruptcy Code
to contain a broad waiver of sovereign immunity, the federal
government would be exposed "to significant monetary
liability under a wide variety of . . . provisions."
   The case involved the bankruptcy-court proceedings of an
Ohio ski shop operator. An officer of the company drew a
$26,000 check on the firm's corporate account, using most of
the money to pay individual taxes he owed to the Internal
Revenue Service. When a trustee for the company appointed by
the bankruptcy court discovered the unauthorized withdrawal
and transfer, the trustee sought to recover the money. A
bankruptcy court judge ruled that the company officer's
transaction was improper and ordered the IRS to return
$20,000 of the amount to the company. A federal district
court and appeals court affirmed that decision.
   On an appeal by the Justice Department, the Supreme Court
reversed the lower-court rulings. Justice Antonin Scalia
wrote the majority opinion, concluding that the relevant
section of the Bankruptcy Code doesn't "unequivocally
express" a waiver of the government's immunity from legal
actions seeking monetary damages. Justice Scalia based the
decision strictly on the text of the code, refusing to
consider its legislative history or broader legal principles.
   Justice John Stevens, in a dissent joined by Justice Harry
Blackmun, said the majority's decision, in effect, condoned
the transfer to the federal government of money "stolen" from
an insolvent company. Justice Stevens stressed that "despite
its ancient lineage, the doctrine of sovereign immunity is
nothing but a judge-made rule that is sometimes favored and
sometimes disfavored," often depending on whether a given
interpretation would be fair.
   Moreover, Congress generally has intended to allow parties
in bankruptcy proceedings to seek money owed to them by the
government, Justice Stevens said.
   (U.S. vs. Nordic Village Inc.)