Heard on the Street:
   Plays on Preferreds May Pay Off for Investors
   Waiting for Upturns in Beaten-Down Sectors
   ----
   By Craig Torres
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Preferred stocks are so called for two reasons. First, if
a company goes bust, its preferred ranks higher than its
common and is more likely to retain at least some value.
Second, companies typically must pay all their preferred
dividends -- even ones that were skipped in tough times --
before common shareholders can get any payout.
   Picking preferreds can be tough because most stock
advisers focus on common instead. Here are three ways
investors might play a beaten-down sector that some analysts
expect to turn up, while collecting better than Treasury-bill
yields.
   Great Western Financial's 2.6 million-share convertible
preferred issue might be a good way to await a bounce in
savings-and-loan stocks. The big California thrift issued the
preferred in 1991 to boost capital. The issue pays $4.375 in
dividends annually; at yesterday's price of 58 3/8 the yield
is 7.5%. Great Western can't call the issue until May 1,
1996.
   Great Western's nonperforming loans total $1.6 billion,
about 4% of total assets. More than half its problem assets
involve foreclosed real estate. But there are good reasons to
think Great Western is poised for a turn. Profit hit a record
$2.24 a share last year, thanks to lower borrowing costs and
higher fee income. Great Western is using surplus capital to
buy up deposits of dead thrifts and expand; in three years it
has become a leading thrift operator in Florida. New-loan
origination fell 40% in 1991, but Great Western profited a
bit from refinancings. If interest costs on fixed-rate
mortgages keep rising, adjustable-rate mortgages, a Great
Western specialty, should become more attractive.
   Joseph Jolson, thrift analyst at Montgomery Securities,
says he thinks management will stick with the
bread-and-butter business of single-family home loans while
acquiring deposits and adding checking accounts to gain fee
income. He rates the common stock a buy; it eased 3/8
yesterday to 19 1/2, for a 4.5% yield. If the common seems
tempting to risk-takers, the preferred may appeal to people
who want to see more proof the thrift is heading for better
times.
   Among property-casualty insurers, USFG's common has
gained 29% this year, to 9 3/8. Fans of the Baltimore-based
insurer are betting that its restructuring will pay off. In
the past year, USFG has shed a pile of junk bonds, dropped
certain insurance lines in nine states and sold a number of
businesses unrelated to insurance. Salomon Brothers analyst
Michael Frinquelli applauds management's efforts to refocus
the company, but he says he doesn't expect profit until next
year.
   He also sees two points of vulnerability: It's easy for an
insurer to underestimate the amount of reserves it needs
against claims when the business mix changes, he says; and
independent agents' loyalty to the company may have been
shaken by hard times.
   Investors in USFG's common may be risking a too-early
arrival. A loss of about 78 cents a share is expected this
year. But some see a 1993 profit of 68 cents a share. Why not
watch from the grandstand of USFG's Series C preferred
issue?
   Between now and the preferred's call date of June 13,
1994, investors can collect about $11.40 in dividends. The
annual payout rate is set at $5, giving the preferred trading
at 56 7/8 a fat yield of 8.8%, compared with a yield of 2.1%
on the common. The preferred can be called for $53.50 a share
in cash or converted to 4.158 common shares for each
preferred share.
   "If you like the long-term turnaround story in USFG and
want to get paid to wait, the convertible preferred is the
way to invest," says Salomon's convertible-securities analyst
Anand Iyer.
   Energy stocks are another sector that could easily dismay
investors who arrive too soon. "Over the next three to six
months, it's tough to make a case for energy stocks," says
Ned Shadek, manager of the $110 million Putnam Energy
Resource Trust portfolio. "And a lot of these stocks may not
work out for 12 to 24 months." But in the long term, energy
shares look deliciously cheap, he says. One of his favorite
wait-and-see plays in energy stocks is Grant Tensor
Geophysical preferred, which makes up about 2% of his
portfolio.
   Grant Tensor is a hybrid -- a high-technology company with
direct links to the energy sector. The Houston-based concern
conducts three-dimensional seismic surveys for oil and gas
exploration companies. "It's the difference between listening
to a heart with a stethoscope and looking at it with a CAT
scan," says G. Bryan Dutt, analyst at Howard Weil.
   The company issued the preferred last year to reduce debt.
The issue pays $2.437 in dividends a year, putting the yield
at 6.45% at yesterday's closing price of 37 3/4. Enthusiasts
have pushed Grant Tensor's common up 34% this year, but
investors such as Mr. Shadek say the company isn't immune to
a downturn in energy prices. The company had a loss of $1.18
a share in 1990. Analysts are puzzling over 1991 estimates
because the company announced a restructuring charge of about
$600,000 and an as yet unspecified charge for discontinued
operations.
   The preferred shares are up 26%. Mr. Shadek says Grant
Tensor is "less sensitive to oil and natural gas prices than
an exploration and production company would be," adding: "We
like the yield; you get paid to wait" for a turn in energy
prices.