Inside Track:
   RJR Treasurer
   Raises Holding
   By 20,000 Shares
   ----
   By Alexandra Peers
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
He paid $10 a share, the same price at which the stock
closed yesterday in New York Stock Exchange trading. Mr.
Zuckerman now owns 100,000 shares.
   "I'm confident that the value of this company will grow at
a rate faster than the overall market," Mr. Zuckerman said
yesterday. But he added that with the SEC reviewing a planned
$1.2 billion RJR bond offering slated for the spring, he
couldn't "say anything to hype the stock."
   Insider activity at RJR is unusual. Many of the top
officers are precluded, until 1993, from selling the large
blocks of stock they received in the LBO, and most own so
much stock they're not adding to it. But Mr. Zuckerman was a
latecomer to the company, joining in February 1991. Insider
stock ownership at RJR is "very strongly encouraged," the
executive noted.
   The company's shares missed out on the recent stock market
rally. Many individual and institutional investors simply
don't play the stock because of its high debt burden, while
some major institutions' investment policies bar them from
buying the stock because of a high price-earnings ratio based
on trailing 12-month earnings.
   But some analysts say the company is gradually, and
successfully, addressing its leverage problems by paying down
and restructuring debt. But they say RJR still has further to
go to gain back market share in its core business,
cigarettes.
   "Cigarette sales are down for the whole industry, but RJR
is leading the pack on the way down," said Dean Witter
Reynolds Inc. analyst David Goldman. What RJR is facing is
decreased consumption of cigarettes in the U.S. in general,
and of the Winston and Salem brands in particular. Moreover,
the U.S. Surgeon General earlier this week requested that RJR
discontinue its "Joe Camel" ad campaign for Camel cigarettes,
because of the cartoon character's appeal to children.
   Nonetheless, given the "lower base" RJR stock price is
starting at relative to competitors such as Philip Morris
Cos., Mr. Goldman says almost any earnings surprises, or any
further inroads into cutting debt, could boost RJR's stock.
He thinks both are likely and, for that reason, he's
recommending buying the stock.
   In the fourth quarter, RJR had net income of $161 million,
or 14 cents a share, mainly reflecting reduced interest
expense. Two weeks ago, RJR lightened its debt load, using
bank loans to retire nearly $1 billion of junk bonds yielding
an average of 14.9%. The company's planned bond offering
would pay the bank loans.