Foreign Exchange:
   Dollar's Surge Against Mark
   Isn't Sustainable, Traders Say
   ----
   By Michael R. Sesit
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
"If your horizon is several months, there is no problem"
with betting on a stronger dollar, said Jean-Michel Charpin,
chief economist for Banque Nationale de Paris in Paris. "But
if you are playing short-term, be a little careful."
   He is sticking to his earlier forecast that the U.S.
currency will climb to 1.75 marks by this summer, which is
nearly 8% higher than its level in New York late yesterday.
   In late New York trading, the dollar stood at 1.6250 marks
and 128.65 yen, up from 1.5920 marks and 126.84 yen late
Tuesday. The British pound fell to $1.7520 from $1.7850. At
its peak in intraday trading yesterday, the dollar was up
7.8% against the mark since year end, 8.5% since last
Thursday.
   As a result of this climb, the profits on many Americans'
foreign stock and bond investments have been whittled
significantly in dollar terms. A prolonged strengthening also
could reduce U.S. exports, which have been one of the few
bright spots in the nation's stagnant economy, by making them
more expensive overseas.
   The Treasury is watching the dollar's surge against the
mark, but isn't alarmed. A senior U.S. Treasury official said
yesterday, "We would take the view that it's too early to
determine how fundamental that shift is. It's not possible to
tell how sustained that will be."
   In early trading in Tokyo Thursday, the dollar was at
128.15 yen, up from Tuesday's close of 126.05 yen. The U.S.
currency was trading at 1.6170 marks, up from 1.5688 marks
Tuesday. Financial markets were closed in Tokyo Wednesday for
a national holiday.
   Many analysts and traders have predicted for months that
the dollar will rise in 1992. The propellants: a U.S.
economic recovery; stable, if not higher, U.S. interest
rates; and slowing economies in Europe, where interest rates
will fall.
   But they also believe the dollar's latest skyrocketing
climb is overdone. "This is a false start based on the
perception that Germany is going into recession and that the
U.S. is coming out of recession," said David R. Kenerson Jr.,
an executive vice president at fund managers Van Eck
Associates Corp.
   He doubts that a U.S. recovery is around the corner or
that Germany is recession-bound, and asserts: "It isn't time
yet for the long-run dollar rally." In fact, Van Eck
Associates yesterday increased their portfolio's exposure to
European currencies even as the dollar ascended.
   Traders attributed yesterday's 2.1% advance -- 2.7% at its
peak -- to panic buying by investors and speculators. These
investors feared missing out on a rally like last year's,
when the dollar soared 28% from mid-February to early July.
   "We all know what happened last year, and people are
afraid it could happen again," said Kit Juckes, an
international economist at S.G. Warburg  Co. in London.
"People worry about standing aside and watching this latest
dollar move."
   In many ways, the currency's rise yesterday and on
previous days is building on its own momentum. Each time it
pierces important points on charts that many traders and
speculators use to predict currency movements, it triggers
more buying. Also, as the dollar climbs, it activates
"stop-loss" orders -- instructions that investors,
corporations and traders leave with banks to buy or sell
currencies at specific levels -- that spark additional
buying.
   "It's a ground swell of forward-looking belief that is
feeding on itself," said Richard Witten, partner in charge of
currency sales at Goldman, Sachs  Co. "On a trend basis, the
dollar's downward move has been broken; all of the short-term
momentum models no longer suggest a dollar downturn."
   Peter Stein, a trader at Commerzbank AG in Frankfurt, said
many investment funds and corporations had begun unwinding
hedges they had put in place earlier to protect against a
dollar decline. "This triggered stop-losses; 1.60 {marks} was
a big point," he said. "Once it goes, it goes, everybody
needs {dollars}." He adds that "the target for the moment is
the 1.64-1.65 {mark} level."
   Already, "We've seen some profit taking by guys who got it
right," said Mr. Stein. "But more guys got it wrong." Thus,
he said: "It's very hard to pick a top at the moment."
   Also propelling the dollar are signs of weakness in the
German economy, the possibility of German labor strikes over
wage disputes and a rally in the German bond market on the
expectation of lower interest rates. In addition, "people now
expect that if the settlements in the {German} wage
negotiations are moderate -- around 6% -- then it's very
likely that during the second quarter, there could be a
significant decrease in German interest rates," said Mr.
Charpin of BNP. "That's what the market has begun to
anticipate these last few days."
   On the flip side, Mr. Juckes of S.G. Warburg notes that
the latest combination of a dollar rally, a U.S. stock market
rally and a sell-off in the short-end of the U.S. Treasury
market is "symptomatic of an imminent U.S. recovery and
expectation of Federal Reserve tightening by the third
quarter."
   He agrees that slower German growth will lead to lower
German interest rates and "significantly" lower European
rates later this year. But he doesn't think the U.S. economy
is poised to rebound. He thinks a second recessionary "dip"
may have begun during the fourth quarter of 1991 and could
extend through the first quarter of this year.
   "At some point the market has got to rethink these
expectations {of an imminent U.S. recovery}, because they
have no obvious foundation in economic statistics that I
see," said Mr. Juckes. "To the degree that the {dollar's}
rally is based on an imminent recovery in the U.S. economy,
it's premature."
   In six months, the dollar could be trading as high as 1.80
marks, up about 11%, Mr. Juckes said. "But I wouldn't be
surprised if we saw 1.50 {a fall of nearly 8%} on the way
there."
   Mr. Kenerson of Van Eck is also pessimistic on the
prospects for U.S. growth. He thinks the net effect of any
move to lower taxes is likely to be neutral because "it won't
be a large package." In addition, he argues that any stimulus
from lower U.S. interest rates will be less than many
analysts contend.
   Noting that consumer income is growing very slowly after
adjusting for inflation and the continuing fear of job
losses, Mr. Kenerson said: "That says to me that neither
consumer confidence nor spending is going to bounce back very
quickly." What's more, he contends that slower growth in
Europe will reduce the outlook for U.S. exports, despite the
low dollar.
   "Then what is going to pull the U.S. economy out of
recession?" he asked. "The answer is nothing. Growth in the
U.S. for a considerable period of time is going to be sub-par
while the country works off its debt load."
   Mr. Charpin of BNP warned that Germany's central bank will
be less likely to lower interest rates if wage settlements
are closer to 7% than 6%. Stable German rates could stall a
dollar rally.
   "To create a story backed by fundamentals that the dollar
is going up significantly, you've got to believe that the
rise in German rates is over and that the decline in U.S.
rates is over," said Mr. Witten of Goldman Sachs. "Most
economists, our own included, believe that that will be the
case, not necessarily now but about six months out."
   However, he added, "currency markets tend not to wait" for
fundamentals to come into line.