Corporate Focus:
   U.S. Bioscience Holders Are Latest to Get Costly Lesson
   ---
   Stock Plummets $13.75 After
   FDA Unit Declines to Approve Drug
   ----
   By Michael Waldholz
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The panel's action was a shock to the company and its
investors, who had expected the federal agency to give the
drug, called Ethyol, a warm send-off. Instead, the panel
ruled that more evidence was needed to prove that Ethyol is
effective in protecting healthy cells from the toxic effects
of cancer chemotherapy.
   As a result, U.S. Bioscience shares on the American Stock
Exchange, which had soared as high as $44 in recent weeks,
plummeted $13.75 yesterday to close at $17.75 in trading of
5.5 million shares. Analysts said the the FDA action,
although unexpected, should be heeded by investors who during
the past year have pumped billions of dollars into the stocks
of unproven biotechnology companies. Yesterday's plunge by
Bioscience shares knocked a total of $550 million off the
market value of the company in one fell swoop.
   The FDA action also suggested that U.S. Bioscience
executives, under pressure to meet the growing expectations
of investors, may have promised more about Ethyol's prospects
than they could deliver.
   In fact, analysts said it appeared that in the wake of the
FDA panel's recommendation, two major U.S. Bioscience
shareholders were selling off their holdings. U.S. Healthcare
Inc. said it will distribute its 17% stake, or 6.7 million
U.S. Bioscience shares, to its own shareholders in the form
of a special dividend. Previously, U.S. Healthcare had an
option to acquire a 17% stake owned by Marion Merrell Dow
Inc. Prior to the FDA panel's meeting, Marion said it decided
to sell its 17% stake in U.S. Bioscience. Neither company
would explain their decisions.
   "{The FDA} delivered a very important message to
pharmaceutical companies and investors," said Patricia
Padgett Lea, an analyst at Vector Securities International
Inc., Deerfield, Ill. "No drug, however, promising or
urgently needed" will get FDA approval without meeting
"regulatory standards."
   In recent months, Philip Schein, U.S. Bioscience's
chairman and chief executive officer, led investors to
believe that Ethyol was on the FDA's fast-track for approval.
Analysts, who until this past fall had been cautiously hoping
the drug might be released for marketing within the next few
years, revised their predictions, saying Ethyol might reach
the market by 1993, and soon afterward garner sales of
several hundred million dollars.
   Ethyol, they argued, would gain wide use because its
protective effect on healthy human tissue would allow cancer
doctors to increase dosages of chemotherapy, thereby
increasing the effectiveness of current cancer drugs.
   But after reviewing clinical studies of Ethyol, the FDA
panel said it was uncertain about the drug. The committee
said Ethyol appeared to reduce damage to bone marrow cells
often caused by cyclophosphamide, a drug prescribed for a
number of cancers. But the committee added that it wasn't
certain if Ethyol also protected tumor cells and, therefore,
reduced the chemotherapy's effectiveness.
   "There's no doubt that the panel thought {Ethyol} was
promising," said Michael Friedman, associate director of
cancer therapy evaluation at the National Cancer Institute.
Dr. Friedman said, however, that the panel believed the
company had yet to test the drug fully.
   "From the data presented it just wasn't clear how to use
the drug, how much of a benefit it would provide, and which
{cancer} drugs it would best be used with," Dr. Friedman
said. "There were just too many questions left to be
answered."
   Officials at U.S. Bioscience said they will continue
testing Ethyol and expect the drug eventually to get FDA
approval, albeit for more restrictive use than previously
hoped. But analysts said some investors, whipsawed by the
jackknife action of the company's share price in recent
months, were caught in the recent enthusiasm for medical
stocks, as well as the company's own boosterism.
   In 1991, investors poured $3.2 billion into 79 initial and
secondary stock offerings for companies in the
medical-technology field, according to Vector Securities. As
with U.S. Bioscience, most of those companies have products
still early in human testing, a time when more drugs fail
than succeed to make it to market.
   Until last year, investor interest in U.S. Bioscience and
Ethyol was muted. The company was formed in a spinoff in 1987
by U.S. Healthcare. From the beginning, U.S. Bioscience was
organized and run by Dr. Schein, a leading cancer specialist
who at various times had held top academic, government and
corporate research positions.
   Dr. Schein's strategy was to develop cancer treatments
using medicines that had been discovered but hadn't been
fully developed. Ethyol was created for the U.S. Army to
protect soldiers against the effects of radiation in the
event of nuclear war. But the drug was shelved because it was
available only in intravenous form, making field use
difficult.
   Dr. Schein became aware of Ethyol and licensed it from its
developers after several colleagues began working with the
drug. In February 1990, the company raised $33 million in an
initial public offering and then raised an additional $57
million last May when it offered another two million shares
to the public.
   Meanwhile, analysts had become impressed by Dr. Schein's
ability to identify interesting experimental drugs and get
them into testing. "He showed us early on that he knew what
he was doing," said David Webber, an analyst at Alex Brown 
Sons.
   Indeed, Wall Street was particularly impressed when U.S.
Bioscience quickly received approval to sell Hexalen, a drug
for treating ovarian cancer.
   Thus, when Dr. Schein surprised a gathering of
institutional investors in November by announcing that the
FDA had ordered an early review of Ethyol, many in attendance
believed the drug was slated for quicker-than-expected
approval.
   In early November, U.S. Bioscience shares traded in the
low $40 range, and on Nov. 15, dipped as low as $35.25. But
within four trading days of the investment meeting, the share
price almost doubled, closing at $62.75. By early January it
was trading in the mid-$80s, prior to a 2-for-1 stock split.
   The stock dropped a bit after it was reported last month
that Dr. Schein and some executives sold about 260,000 U.S.
Bioscience shares in prices ranging from $43 to $76. Dr.
Schein, alone, sold 23% or 125,000 of his shares, valued at
$7.4 million. He said the sale was aimed at diversifying his
holdings.
   But several analysts, angered by the FDA action, are
wondering whether the company insiders were hedging their
bets, perhaps aware that Ethyol data might be seen as
incomplete. At the FDA hearing last week, a top FDA official
suggested that the Ethyol study had been terminated before
adequate data could be assembled.
   While U.S. Bioscience executives said the FDA had
suggested the company stop the Ethyol test early because the
drug was doing well, FDA staffers insist that wasn't the
case. Several analysts said that they simply are puzzled as
to exactly what transpired and uncertain as to just how to
explain what occurred to their clients at large institutions.
Although the full FDA could, theoretically, overrule the
committee, FDA staffers said privately that was unlikely to
happen.
   "I think U.S. Bioscience has a very exciting drug with
great potential," said George Kemp, a cancer researcher at
Eastern Virginia Medical College who has helped test the
drug. "Going to the FDA right now, however, may have been
premature."
   ---
              U.S. Bioscience by the Numbers
                                                                                                       

                     The Fundamentals
                                                                                                       

                                       1990       1989
                                                                                                       

   SALES                              $3.45      $0.49
   ($ millions)
                                                                                                       

   NET INCOME (LOSS)                 ($4.9)     ($5.74)
   ($ millions)
                                                                                                       

   EARNINGS (LOSS)
   PER SHARE                          $0.30      $0.52
                                                                                                       

   MAJOR PRODUCT LINES:
                                                                                                       

   Hexalen, used with other drugs for ovarian cancer therapy.
                                                                                                       

   MAJOR COMPETITORS:
                                                                                                       

   Immunex, Bristol-Myers Squibb among others.
                                                                                                       

   *Not adjusted for 2-for-1 stock split on Jan. 16.