REVIEW  OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   Implants and the Press
While this observation may puncture some of the press's
more extreme pretensions, it is not really a critical remark
but merely a description of inevitable reality. It certainly
does not mean that journalists should not strive for
objectivity in reporting and fairness in commentary, though
we would add that these goals are not necessarily measured by
conformity to the fashions of the boys on the bus. But in
gauging the impact of the press on events, the thing to watch
is the stereotypes, and especially changes in them.
   To the breast-implant story, the press generally brought
the stereotype captured in a USA Today headline: "Safety vs.
Profits." Since Dow Corning and other makers are in it for
the profit, that is, we assume they will cut corners with
safety. The press is also good at "cover-up," so any missing
document becomes evidence of bad motives. (Over the years Dow
Corning has given the FDA more than 100,000 pages of
documents on breast implants and silicone.)
   This same assessment of motives orders what a reporter
will probe, and how far. The New York Times has one of the
most distinguished science sections in journalistic history,
but it has carried little if anything on the breast-implant
story. Instead, the Times has covered the controversy on page
one, where its lead reporter has been Phil Hilts. A week ago
one of Mr. Hilts's articles quoted two experts on different
sides of the issue, Dr. Nir Kossovsky of UCLA and Dr. Noel
Rose, chairman of immunology at Johns Hopkins. Mr. Hilts
scrupulously noted that Dr. Rose "has testified in court on
behalf of Dow Corning." He felt no necessity to mention that
Dr. Kossovsky has also testified, on behalf of plaintiffs, at
a rate, described in one deposition, of $315 an hour. It
happens that Dr. Kossovsky is also a member of the supposedly
independent FDA panel reviewing the device.
   Similarly, a long front-page Times article specifically on
the lawsuits details the complaints of plaintiffs and the
responses of the defense. But the interest of contingency-fee
lawyers in the cases is not news fit to print. For that
matter, a search of computer data bases finds that, with the
exceptions below, this part of the story has been discovered
only by legal publications (and these columns).
   Now, of course the "safety vs. profit" stereotype has an
anti-capitalist tinge, but society has lived with that so
long it is almost an honored tradition. What is disturbing
about the stereotype is not its ideological bent but its
mindless naivete.
   What does it mean to say that a corporation such as Dow
Corning seeks "profit?" Yes, its accountants calculate and
our columns report an item called "net income," but this
money does not go into the pockets of "the greedy." Some of
it is spent on items like plants to produce drugs, and some
of it is redistributed as dividends to shareholders. The most
typical shareholders of large companies are pension funds.
Lay aside the fact that Dow Corning says, and we have no
reason to doubt, the breast-implant product has not been
profitable recently; if it were, the prototypical, ultimate
recipient would be a retiree from a large company, perhaps
the New York Times.
   If there is anyone in the breast-implant story out to make
a killing, with what that says about motivation and moral
scruple, it is the lawyers. They typically get one-third of
the judgments, and the whole business is to stack one suit on
top of another to parlay a victory into a fortune. The
lawyers are interested in finding clients who can win their
cases; the New Jersey firm of Shevick  Ravich advertised,
"The truth behind breast implants; your dream can become a
nightmare."
   In all probability, silicone breast implants will soon be
off the market, like the anti-morning-sickness drug
Bendectin, on which there was a scientific consensus of
safety. Dow Corning's primary responsibility is not to defend
the truth, but to produce returns for shareholders. It will
take the device off the market, as someone who discovers he's
playing against loaded dice leaves the game. But if there is
something to be salvaged, perhaps it is a change or at least
modification in the journalistic stereotype. There is some
hope.
   Ms. Trausch says, for example, "I just have questions.
Could it be that lives have been saved with implants? Have
they taken the fear out of going to a doctor with the lump or
going through a mastectomy because a woman feels there is an
alternative to being deformed?" She concludes, "I'm not sure
I believe in the bogyman, and crusaders and their lawyers are
always looking for one."
   The current issue of Newsweek reports the implant
controversy, but not in its health or medicine sections.
Instead, the refreshingly skeptical article in the justice
section begins, "The lawyers are circling." The article
quotes lawyer Richard Laminack defending the cases, with
Newsweek concluding, "If you accept his argument, Laminack
and his legal brethren are just doing the Lord's work. But if
they win, they won't have to wait for heaven to get their
reward."
   There was a similarly skeptical report of the lawyers on
the ABC Evening News last Wednesday. The report on the
implant controversy noted that "in most of these cases,
lawyers get paid only if they win." ABC also pointed out,
quite unnaively, "Makers of the breast implants may have one
advantage: Because the symptoms in these cases vary so much,
lawyers say there is unlikely to be one huge class-action
suit resulting in one huge settlement, which otherwise might
drive those companies out of business."
   More subjectively, it seems to us there have been
relatively few quotes from Dr. Sidney Wolfe at Ralph Nader
Center. Reporters who might quote him on science may now feel
it necessary to mention he's been selling the lawyers
how-to-sue kits for $750 each, and maybe even to ask why the
Nader empire won't disclose its financing when it accuses
nearly everyone else of assorted cover-ups.
   Perhaps someday crowds of reporters will be covering the
truly juicy and almost unmined story of the contingency-fee
industry, the only-in-America method of financing and
nurturing lawsuits. The Association of Trial Lawyers of
America started the Breast Implant Litigation Group in 1989,
a year after Naderites demanded that the FDA ban implants.
The ATLA now has some 75 working groups, exchanging tips on
how to reap contingency fees from various good purposes.
Investors beware: Some of the more recent include the
Nutri/Systems Litigation Group, the Homeowner Warranty
Litigation Group and the Automatic Door Litigation Group.