Politics  Policy:
   House's Check Kiters Scramble to Save
   Reputations as Names Start to Be Named
   ----
   By Jeffrey H. Birnbaum
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The list of 24 names isn't scheduled for release until
next week. But the Associated Press obtained a partial list
of them, and many lawmakers on their own have begun
disclosing the number of checks they wrote with insufficient
funds. The names included prominent figures in both parties.
   The list of Democrats among the 24 included Rep. Mary Rose
Oakar of Ohio, the chair of the National Democratic Platform
Committee; Rep. Stephen Solarz of New York, the senior member
of the Foreign Affairs Committee; Tony Coelho of California,
the former No. 3 Democrat in the House; and two committee
chairmen, Michigan's John Conyers of the Government
Operations Committee, and Missouri's William Clay of the Post
Office and Civil Service Committee.
   Prominent Republicans were admitting to large numbers of
overdrafts, including Reps. Vin Weber of Minnesota and Duncan
Hunter of California, who have been important players in the
House GOP leadership. Topping the list, with 996 overdrafts
over 39 months, is former Rep. Tommy Robinson of Arkansas, a
Democrat-turned-Republican who ran unsuccessfully for
governor in 1990.
   Most of the 24 are Democrats, however, giving hope to
Republicans who see the episode as their chance to make major
gains in a chamber they haven't controlled for 38 years.
"This is a Democratic machine political scandal," Rep. Newt
Gingrich (R., Ga.) said yesterday on ABC News' "This Week
with David Brinkley."
   Democrats played down the large number of Democrats on the
"abuser" list, asserting the controversy was bipartisan. But
House Speaker Thomas Foley of Washington conceded on the
House floor last week, "We have a task to repair the
reputation of the House."
   Yesterday on ABC, Mr. Foley also took some blame for
allowing the problems at the House Bank to go so far. "I
regret I wasn't more energetic in following up the bank," Mr.
Foley said.
   Over the weekend, many lawmakers began trying to repair
the damage of their disclosures by calling the overdrafts a
mistake and apologizing to their constituents. Others reacted
defiantly, saying the reports were in error and denying
wrongdoing. Mr. Robinson of Arkansas told the Associated
Press, "I would dispute that to the end of time."
   The House Bank wasn't actually a bank, but rather a
cooperative for House members to deposit their government
payroll checks. Unlike commercial banks, the money didn't
accrue interest, but members were able to draw checks against
their future salaries. Overdrawn checks didn't bounce,
because funds came out of other members' deposits.
   The House Ethics Committee determined that the practice
was an abuse when a lawmaker had overdrafts that exceeded the
next month's payroll deposit eight or more times over the
39-month period. Other than the cost of administering the
bank, no federal money was used or lost, but the draws
against future salary are being seen by the public as "bad
checks" written against insufficient funds, and even
lawmakers with relatively few such overdrafts are having to
explain their situations to a resentful and skeptical public.
   By early next month, the names of all the bad-check
writers will be disclosed. Many of these disclosures will be
incorrect because of the haphazard state of bookkeeping at
the House Bank. But some of the lawmakers could lose their
seats at least partly because of the issue. At a private
meeting of Democrats last week, New York Rep. Thomas Downey
asked, only partly in jest, whether House leaders were going
to give classes in "resume preparation."