A.M. Best, Insurer-Rating Firm, Refines
   Its System Amid Criticism It Acted Late
   ----
   By Susan Pulliam
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
But it's unclear how far the measures will go toward
quieting criticisms of the rating concern, itself. Indeed,
the system appears to reward top quality companies, by adding
an A-double plus category, the equivalent of a triple-A from
Moody's Investors Service Inc. and Standard  Poor's Corp.,
the other primary raters of insurers' financial strength.
Moody's is a unit of Dun  Bradstreet Corp.; SP is a
subsidiary of McGraw-Hill Inc. Meanwhile, the new system
elminates "contingent" ratings, which indicated that an
insurer's financial condition has deteriorated.
   The new system will assign grades of A-double plus through
F. It includes six new ratings: A-double plus, B-double plus,
C-double plus and D, E and F. The previous system used
ratings of A-plus through C-minus.
   The change comes after Best had been criticized for not
downgrading swiftly enough certain ailing insurance
companies, including Mutual Benefit Life Insurance Co. of
Newark, N.J. The insurer was seized last summer by state
insurance regulators. Meanwhile, many insurance companies
have complained of downgradings that they call unnecessary.
   Under the new system, Best will eliminate "contingent"
ratings, which were used to indicate a "modest decline in
financial performance but not enough to warrant a rating
reduction." Travelers Insurance Co., the life-insurance unit
of Travelers Corp., carries an A-plus contingent rating, for
example. Companies with a contingent rating could receive
either an upgrading or downgrading under the new system.
   Some industry experts viewed the elimination of the
contingent ratings as a concession to insurers because it may
allow Best to avoid downgrading companies that were on the
cusp of a lower grade under the previous system. "By creating
an A-double plus rating, they can leave companies at an
A-plus rating," without awarding them the top rating, said
Fred Townsend, an industry consultant in Hartford, Conn.
   Whether the new system is enough to quiet concerns about
the adequacy of Best's rating probably will depend on how
many companies fall out of Best's top category under the new
system.
   About 23% of the almost 4,000 companies rated by Best,
including life insurance and property and casualty companies,
carry the top rating under the current system. Best will
assign ratings under the new system to the companies based on
1991 results in March, the spokesman said.
   Mr. Townsend said the new system is also probably aimed at
helping consumers distinguish among the best quality
insurance companies. "The primary motive is to form a more
select group at the top," he said.
   Best noted in its announcement, however, that failure to
receive the new top rating in each category, that of
double-plus, won't signal a downgrading.
   The new system also will provide consumers with more
information about the status of troubled companies.
Currently, the lowest grade a company can receive is C-minus,
or fair. Under the new system, companies can be rated D-below
minimum standards, E-under state supervision or F-in
liquidation.
   In addition, the rating of NA-11, or rating suspended, was
added to indicate that a previously-rated company has
experienced a sudden and significant event affecting the
company's financial position and the impact can't be
evaluated because of a lack of timely or appropriate
information.