Economy:
   Consumer Confidence Hits 17-Year Low,
   But Retailers Say Fight Is Far From Lost
   ---
   Bleak Labor Market Is Cited
   By Analysts for Plunge
   In Index of Sentiment
   ----
   By Lucinda Harper
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Today the picture is, in some cases, much different.
Inflation has been well-behaved for some time, and the
economy seems just to be stuck -- not deep in decline but not
growing noticeably either.
   It is the disheartening employment picture that is the big
similarity between 1974 and now. Analysts say that a bleak
labor market is almost single-handedly responsible for
pushing the Conference Board's consumer confidence index down
nearly four points to 46.3 (the confidence level of 1985
equals 100) from January to February.
   The new confidence figures dealt a big blow to many
business leaders who were hoping consumer malaise was turning
around, given the pick-up in retail sales and housing starts
last month.
   But just because consumer attitudes darkened in February,
that doesn't necessarily mean spending is slumping as well.
"There is no real correlation between confidence and consumer
spending," said Norman Robertson, chief economist for Mellon
Bank in Pittsburgh, noting that the drop in confidence over
the past year has been much greater than the drop in retail
trade.
   Still, Federal Reserve Board Chairman Alan Greenspan,
speaking before the Senate Banking Committee, said he found
the consumer confidence survey "quite disturbing."
   Fabian Linden, executive director of the Conference
Board's Consumer Research Center, called the decline in
confidence "disconcerting" and said that the "consumer's
prime concern continues to be job security."
   January's unemployment data, the most recent available,
showed that fewer Americans had jobs during the month and
that those who did were working shorter hours and for less
money. And General Motors Corp.'s announcement Monday that it
will close 12 plants over the next three years is likely to
heighten fears of job losses around the country.
   Mr. Greenspan reiterated his view yesterday that "the
basic level" of the nation's economic activity is, "in
historical terms, not as negative as the state of confidence"
would imply. He noted, for instance, that current job losses
aren't as severe as in past recessions.
   But Mr. Greenspan called this disparity "an issue of
concern," saying that it seems to reflect consumer worries
"for the longer term."
   "When we went into a recession in the past," Mr. Greenspan
explained, the expectation was that "a lay-off was merely
that, a lay-off, not a job loss. I think there's a different
attitude now."
   H. William Lurton, chief executive officer of Jostens Inc.
and the new chairman of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, said at
a luncheon held in his honor yesterday that the big drop in
consumer confidence didn't surprise him. In recent
discussions with business owners across the country, he said,
he found that "in most cases, business is not good."
   (See related story: "Buyers Aren't Charging In, Stores
Note, but Things Could Be Much Worse" -- WSJ Feb. 26, 1992)