Beverage Concerns Are Expected to Post
   Modest Increases in 4th-Quarter Profits
   ----
   By Michael J. McCarthy
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Coca-Cola Enterprises Inc., a big Coke bottler, had
another difficult quarter, and will probably report a small
loss. Anheuser-Busch Cos. should report an earnings gain of
about 10%.
   Sales in the $46 billion U.S. soft-drink market, dominated
by Coke and Pepsi, were slow in the fourth quarter, with
analysts estimating volume growth of 2% to 3%. Aside from the
recession, volume growth has been hampered by a dry spell in
introductions of new beverages that could stimulate greater
interest and demand. Partly because of that, Pepsi recently
established business partnerships to sell tea and fruit
juices. Pepsi also stepped up the development of a colorless
version of its flagship cola.
   For all of 1991, analysts believe volume in the U.S.
soft-drink industry rose only 2% to 3% in 1991 -- off from
the 4% to 5% growth rates of several years ago, fueled by
strong sales of diet colas. "The market was not a barnburner
last year," says Emanuel Goldman, a PaineWebber Inc. analyst.
"There was a lot of price sensitivity."
   Atlanta-based Coca-Cola, which generates about 80% of its
profits abroad, is expected to show about a 5% to 7% increase
in overseas volume, as measured by sales of cases by
bottlers, or distributors. That would be slightly lower than
usual, the result of poor weather conditions in some Pacific
Rim markets, a difficult economy in Australia and other
factors, analysts said.
   In the U.S., fourth-quarter case sales for Coke and Pepsi
are expected to rise about 2% to 3%; some analysts think
Coke's gain will be greater, though, as it benefits from a
continuing shift of fountain service accounts from Pepsi.
   In the fourth quarter, Coke is expected to earn 50 cents
to 54 cents a share, up from 44 cents a year earlier.
   Pepsi's earnings will again be hurt by profit troubles at
Frito-Lay, which until last year had been a steady,
predictable breadwinner. Analysts expect the big snack
company to report that domestic operating profit was flat or
down slightly in the quarter because of continued pricing
pressure.
   Late last year, Frito-Lay began a reorganization, which
included cutting 1,800 jobs. Given those cost savings, and
the volume growth expected from lower prices, "1992 will show
very strong Frito-Lay profit growth," predicts David Goldman,
an analyst with Oppenheimer  Co. Pepsi's Pizza Hut is
expected to show strong earnings growth in the quarter,
benefiting from its expanded delivery business.
   Pepsi, of Purchase, N.Y., will post earnings of about 41
cents a share, up from 37 cents a year earlier, excluding
extraordinary items in both periods.
   Analysts expect another poor quarter for Coca-Cola
Enterprises, but they foresee improvement now that the
company has merged with Coke's second-biggest bottler,
Johnston Coca-Cola Bottling Group. Price discounting, aimed
at luring penny-pinching consumers, hurt fourth-quarter
results at Coca-Cola Enterprises, which could post anything
from a loss of five cents a share to a slight profit. In the
quarter a year earlier, the company earned seven cents a
share from operations.
   The beer market suffered in the fourth quarter from a
one-two punch to consumers earlier in the year: higher
federal excise taxes and brewers' price increases. Industry
volume for the quarter probably declined about 2%.
   Anheuser-Busch, St. Louis, is expected to show a
fourth-quarter volume drop in line with the industry. The
previous year's quarter, however, reflects a buying binge in
advance of the Jan. 1, 1991, excise tax increase that drove
the company's volume up sharply. As a result, "the quarterly
comparison is all distorted," says Roy Burry, a Kidder,
Peabody Inc. analyst. Lower-priced beers, like Busch,
performed well in the quarter, he and others say, while the
upscale Michelob line continued to suffer.
   The No. 1 brewer is expected to earn at least 53 cents a
share in the quarter, up from the 50 cents reported a year
earlier.