Economy:
   Economy Is `Lackluster,' Survey Says,
   But Business, Fed Leaders See Upturn
   ----
   By Lucinda Harper
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
In the retail sector, the new Fed survey confirmed what
sales figures and merchants already have suggested: holiday
sales were flat or modestly higher than a year ago, before
adjusting for price changes.
   But despite the softness, banking and business leaders
anticipate "economic conditions will improve by midyear," the
survey said.
   Fed officials are expecting just that. Fed Gov. John
LaWare, speaking in Albany, N.Y., declared, "We're in a
genuine recovery." But he added, "unfortunately, it's very
slow." He predicted the economy will be growing again by the
second quarter.
   And Gerald Corrigan, president of the New York Federal
Reserve Bank, told an audience that a falling inflation rate
and corporate restructuring are creating the "potential for a
strong economic recovery . . . which may surprise us all."
   The following is a look at conditions in each of the 12
Fed districts:
                                                                                                       

   Boston district. Economic weakness still prevails in New
England. Retailers said consumers were "particularly
restrained" in the first half of the Christmas season, but a
"last-minute rush" prevented major sales erosion from a year
earlier. Manufacturers said that weakness reappeared
throughout the smokestack economy in the fourth quarter and
that new orders and backlogs were below late-1990 levels.
Realtors in New England have different stories to tell: some
say sales are healthy; some say they are weak. A regional
forecasting group sees a "delayed recovery" in the district.
                                                                                                       

   New York district. Residential construction is sluggish
and commercial office leasing activity has slowed, according
to the New York Fed. Unemployment rates in the district rose
in December for the third consecutive month after following a
"seesaw" pattern for most of 1991. Things aren't looking up:
Nynex, a local telephone company, said it will slash its work
force by 10,000 jobs over next two years.
                                                                                                       

   Philadelphia district. Economic activity was "steady" at
the close of 1991. However, retailers said Christmas sales
were below expectations despite massive price cutting. Lower
interest rates did nothing to increase demand for loans to
buy houses, but there was a surge in refinancing.
                                                                                                       

   Cleveland district. "There is still little sign of renewed
recovery" in this region. Industrial activity has slowed
recently, led mainly by the auto industry. However, the
Cleveland Fed said auto production is expected to strengthen
in this quarter. There is little sign of life in new business
or consumer loans.
                                                                                                       

   Richmond, Va., district. Retail sales were flat, and
manufacturing activity declined in December and early
January, but merchants and manufacturers were more optimistic
than they were during the prior Fed survey six weeks ago.
Realtors said lower mortgage rates had increased traffic
through houses on the selling block.
                                                                                                       

   Atlanta district. Manufacturers say business has remained
slow, although heads of printing and packaging industries
report small increases in orders and production. Several
bankers said they were disappointed by the small amount of
new loan activity that has emerged since interest rates were
cut sharply late last month.
                                                                                                       

   Chicago district. Most sectors of the economy slowed in
this region in December and early January. There was new
softening in production outside of the auto industry, which
previously had been the sole culprit in industrial weakness.
Employment in the industrial sector softened at the close of
year.
                                                                                                       

   St. Louis district. There were bright spots on the
manufacturing front -- a paper company said it will build a
new plant -- but for the most part, the industrial sector
remains weak. Some workers have been recalled at plants to
help replenish inventory, but a shoe factory announced
another round of layoffs. Retail sales were mixed throughout
the holiday and bank loans are still flat.
                                                                                                       

   Minneapolis district. The economy in this region is
"stagnant." The labor market has deteriorated: the
unemployment rate rose between October and November. Tourist
activity, though, was "excellent." Football's Super Bowl is
expected to bring roughly $45 million in spending to the
Minneapolis-St. Paul area.
                                                                                                       

   Kansas City district. Christmas sales seemed better than a
year ago, and housing sales have improved. Activity in the
farm sector has slowed from its recent peak performance.
                                                                                                       

   Dallas district. Competition is heated. Service companies
are lowering prices to keep market share. Construction is up
slightly, but respondents say there are signs of another
slowdown.
                                                                                                       

   San Francisco district. Intermountain regions in the
district are "relatively healthy," but weakness persists
elsewhere. There have been cutbacks in the aerospace and
electronic industries, and farm and ranch real estate sales
in Idaho are off 50% from a year ago because of poor
agricultural conditions.