Politics  Policy:
   Cuomo Praises
   Tsongas, Draft
   Bid for Himself
   ----
   By Albert R. Hunt
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Moreover, Mr. Cuomo, who continues to say that he won't
enter the Democratic presidential race, added that he thinks
the write-in campaign is "extraordinary and significant" in
many ways. "It bespeaks a significance to push this debate
and shows a general sense that we're just not down to
business yet."
   The one candidate, though, who he thinks has gotten down
to the business of addressing real issues is Mr. Tsongas.
Gov. Cuomo extolled the former Massachusetts senator's
virtues, frequently in a fashion that just as easily might
have been applied to himself.
   Sen. Tsongas, he said, is "connecting" with voters because
he "seems to make the most sense" in talking about the real
issues of the economy and jobs. The New York governor -- who
said he read Mr. Tsongas's book of economic prescriptions and
agrees with "a lot" of his ideas while disagreeing with
"some" -- congratulated the former Massachusetts senator "for
taking President Bush on" regarding the economy.
   He dismissed reservations that some other politicians have
expressed about whether Sen. Tsongas, a Greek-American from
Massachusetts, would appeal to other regions of the country.
"That argument is ridiculous," he declared. Trying to "depict
ethnicity" as a political problem "is a lot of crap." (Some
more conservative Democrats have expressed similar
reservations about Gov. Cuomo.)
   The New York Democrat said the other Democratic
candidates, especially Sens. Tom Harkin of Iowa and Bob
Kerrey of Nebraska, haven't been able to convey their ideas
to the voters yet. The Democrats' recent debate on public
television "was very good," Gov. Cuomo said, but "that hasn't
gotten through to the public yet."
   Arkansas Gov. Bill Clinton, with whom Gov. Cuomo has
clashed more than a few times, is running into political
trouble, he acknowledged. "Bill Clinton is smart, attractive,
quick, charming, well-informed, a moderate and a southerner,"
Gov. Cuomo said. That created "a very strong presumption of
electability. But the minute he ran into trouble {with
stories over alleged marital infidelity and avoiding the
draft} that presumption was rebutted."
   The architects of the New Hampshire Cuomo write-in
campaign are ecstatic that the governor was giving a major
speech last night at neighboring Harvard University that was
sure to attract lots of media attention in the area.
Originally, the governor said he would speak just on welfare,
but in the past few days decided to broaden it into a larger
discussion of the economy.
   In the prepared remarks, the New York Democrat leveled a
broadside against the economic policies of Presidents Bush
and Reagan: "Even after the {current} recession, the excesses
and short-sightedness of the '80s will leave us falling
further behind our global competitors. The nation's economic
wound is close to the heart."
   Mr. Cuomo insisted in the interview that despite his
praise for the write-in effort, he's not doing anything to
help it. He noted he has turned down numerous requests for
television and radio interviews in New Hampshire and requests
to speak at the University of New Hampshire and Franklin
Pierce Law School.
   But he displays a keen interest in the political scene.
Indeed, Gov. Cuomo said he has even crafted a 28-second
commercial for Mr. Tsongas. It would say:
   "A lot of people like things I'm saying about the economy
and think my ideas are good, but they say I'm not electable.
It may be because of the way I come across on television.
They would have said the same thing about Abraham Lincoln or
Harry Truman. I don't think this is so much an insult to me
as it is to you. It says you vote for a pretty face. Show
them they're wrong."