Big Board Fines PaineWebber $900,000
   For Alledged Sales-Practice Deficiencies
   ----
   By William Power
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Additional disciplinary actions against PaineWebber
brokers and at least one other former branch manager are
expected, the Big Board said.
   The case is a blow to PaineWebber's image, which has been
on the upswing amid a revival in profit because of the stock
market's gains and the firm's focus on cost control. The firm
hadn't had any major bad news since announcing a $57.4
million annual loss a year ago.
   PaineWebber agreed to be censured and pay the fines
without admitting or denying wrongdoing. It paid an $800,000
fine for itself and $100,000 for the individuals. The firm
also agreed to review whether it needs to improve sales
practices.
   Paul B. Guenther, president of PaineWebber's brokerage
operations, said in a memo to branch managers and department
heads that the firm settled the case "to get this matter
behind us." He noted that despite the various charges of
sales-practice violations, "no charges of fraud were ever
involved."
   Mr. Guenther added: "No allegation of impropriety is ever
welcome. We are confident, however, that the alleged
improprieties represent isolated occurrences. We are also
confident that the issues raised by the NYSE have been
remedied. In short, this is now a matter of history."
   The Big Board charged, among other things, that from 1984
to 1988, PaineWebber permitted recurring instances in which
unsuitable options investments were sold to customers, in
many cases causing thousands of dollars of losses. The
exchange accused two division managers and seven branch
managers of inadequately supervising brokers "over long
periods of time."
   The alleged violations already have triggered 293 customer
complaints and $5.8 million in settlements with customers,
PaineWebber said.
   In the Philadelphia office, the exchange said, an
unidentified broker, described only as the largest producer,
from 1984 to 1987 allegedly made "unauthorized and
unsuitable" purchases of stock that triggered complaints from
93 customers and caused PaineWebber to make more than $3
million in settlements. In some other branches, it said,
brokers allegedly engaged in improper trading for themselves.
   The Big Board said there were a number of indications,
such as internal memorandums and active account reports, that
should have alerted supervisory personnel to the problems.
"However, inadequate corrective action was taken by
supervisory personnel," the exchange said.
   The nine current or former supervisors consented, without
admitting or denying guilt, to findings of failure to
supervise. The first two listed are no longer with
PaineWebber, but the others remain:
   -- Lee Harold Lovejoy, 55 years old, of Hampton, N.J.,
former Philadelphia branch office manager, fined $15,000 and
suspended as a supervisor for three weeks. He is currently
manager of Tucker Anthony Inc.'s Philadelphia office. Tucker
Anthony is a unit of John Hancock Mutual Life Insurance Co.
   -- Robert Bradley Fuller, 53, Pasadena, Calif., former
Pasadena branch manager, fined $15,000 and suspended as a
supervisor for three weeks. He is currently employed by
Kemper Corp.'s Kemper Securities Group in Pasadena.
   -- Sheldon Alan Chaiken, 57, of Bridgeton, Md., former
division manager of the 20-branch Eastern division, including
Philadelphia, fined $10,000 and suspended as a supervisor for
two weeks.
   -- David Ware Stanger, 44, manager of the Santa Barbara,
Calif., office, fined $15,000 and suspended three weeks as a
supervisor.
   -- Gary Price Evans, 53, of Pasadena, manager of the
southern Pacific division, with about 20 offices at the time,
fined $10,000 and suspended as a supervisor two weeks.
   -- John Arnold McFerran, 51, former manager of the
Boulder, Colo., branch, fined $10,000 and suspended as a
supervisor two weeks.
   -- Donald Delia Dest, 66, of Clinton, Conn., former
manager of the New Haven, Conn., branch, fined $10,000 and
suspended as a supervisor two weeks.
   -- Burgess Askew Davis, 43, former manager of the
Louisville, Ky., branch, fined $10,000 and suspended as a
supervisor one week.
   -- William Ogram Webster Jr., 48, Wilton, Conn., former
manager of the Fairfield, Conn., branch, fined $5,000 and
suspended as a supervisor one week.
   Mr. Lovejoy declined to comment, while the others said
through PaineWebber that they settled to get the matter
behind them.