Quebec Seeks Exit
   From Involvement
   With Asbestos
   ----
   By G. Pierre Goad
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The Quebec government quietly invited bids last month for
wholly owned Bell Asbestos Mines Ltd. and the government's
54.6% stake in Asbestos Corp. The government has received
"more than one offer," said a spokeswoman for Quebec's
minister of energy and resources. Although the government
hasn't set a deadline, the spokeswoman said that "we would
like to complete (the planned sale) quickly."
   The saga of the Quebec government's asbestos adventures
won't necessarily end with a quick sale. Some minority
shareholders of Asbestos Corp. are trying to force the
government to buy them out at nearly 10 times the current
market price. In a complex transaction completed in 1986, a
Quebec government agency bought General Dynamics Corp.'s
54.6% stake in Asbestos Corp. for about 170 million Canadian
dollars (US$147 million), or about C$80 a share. The
government never made a follow-up offer to minority
shareholders. On the Montreal Exchange, thinly traded
Asbestos Corp. closed Friday at C$8.50, up 25 Canadian cents.
   More than five years after Quebec bought General
Dynamics's stake, a tenacious group of shareholders that says
it represents holders of about 500,000 Asbestos Corp. shares
is still fighting for a follow-up offer. The staff of the
Ontario Securities Commission agrees with the group. The OSC
lawyers said in a 1988 notice calling a hearing on the affair
that the Quebec government was obligated to make a follow-up
offer at C$80 a share for the minority-held shares. However,
the commission hasn't ruled yet.
   The Ontario hearing is on hold, pending the result of a
legal challenge of the commission's jurisdiction by the
Quebec government. Quebec lost in a lower court but has
appealed. Separately, the Quebec Securities Commission ruled
that it doesn't have authority over Quebec government
agencies. The shareholders group has appealed that decision.
(Canada doesn't have a national securities commission.)
   "It was a very rotten deal," says F. Warren Hurst, a
retired stock broker who co-chairs the Asbestos Corp.
shareholders group. "We were left high and dry," Mr. Hurst
said, adding the that group doesn't have any plans to give up
its fight.
   Mr. Hurst and Alfred L. J. Page, an attorney for the
group, said they are both mystified by a statement released
by Asbestos Corp. Friday night. In the statement, Asbestos
Corp. said it was informed that the Quebec government agency
intends to sell its stake. Then Asbestos Corp. added: "Should
the sale of these interests take place, S.N.A. (the
government agency) and the government of Quebec would assume
their responsibilities under securities legislation arising
from previous acquisitions."
   The Quebec government spokeswoman said she didn't know
what that means. She added that the government's decision to
sell "doesn't affect the minority-held shares." She didn't
elaborate. Benoit Cartier, president of Asbestos Corp.,
didn't return calls.
   Asbestos Corp. and Bell Asbestos Mines each own one
asbestos mine and 22.5% of a limited partnership in Thetford
Mines, Quebec, that operates the mines. The partnership, LAB
Chrysotile Inc., also operates a third mine owned by
investors led by Jean Dupere, president of LAB Chrysotile.
Mr. Dupere's group owns the remaining 55% of LAB Chrysotile,
said Clement Bernier, senior vice president.
   Mr. Bernier said that LAB Chrysotile produced about
350,000 metric tons of asbestos fiber last year and was
profitable. He declined to provide specific figures, adding
that the partnership doesn't publish its results. He said LAB
Chrysotile is the largest producer of asbestos outside the
former Soviet Union.
   Mr. Bernier said that Mr. Dupere's group made an offer to
the government for Bell Asbestos Mines and the stake in
Asbestos Corp. He said that he also understands the
government has received one other serious offer. He declined
to elaborate. Mr. Dupere was skiing in Europe and couldn't be
reached for comment.
   ---
   Corrections  Amplifications
                                                                                                       

   A QUEBEC GOVERNMENT AGENCY owns 54.6% of Asbestos Corp.
The percentage was incorrect in some editions yesterday.
Also, Benoit Cartier is chairman and acting chief executive
officer of Asbestos Corp. Mr. Cartier's title was misstated
in yesterday's edition.
   (WSJ Jan. 28, 1992)