New Stock Listings
The Big Board began trading Global Health Sciences Fund,
Denver, a closed-end investment company that invests
primarily in companies related to the health sciences, under
GHS, as an initial offering.
                                                                                                       

   On the Amex, Hemlo Gold Mines Inc., Toronto, a gold mine
owner and operator, began trading under HEM. The company's
stock also trades on the Toronto, Montreal and Vancouver
exchanges and the International Stock Exchange in London.
                                                                                                       

   The national market system of the over-the-counter market
began trading the following initial offerings: Allied
Healthcare Products Inc., St. Louis, a medical gas equipment
and respiratory therapy equipment maker, under AHPI; Granite
Broadcasting Corp., New York, a television broadcasting
company, under GBTVK; and Industrial Holdings Inc., Houston,
a maker and distributor of pipes and valves, under IHII.
   The following six companies presently trade on the Nasdaq
System and have been approved for designation in the Nasdaq
National Market, beginning tomorrow: Carolina First Corp.,
Greenville, S.C., a bank-holding company, under CAFC;
Frontier Adjusters of America Inc., Phoenix, Ariz., a
licenser and franchiser of independent insurance adjusters,
under FRON; International Cablecasting Technologies Inc., a
cable audio programming services provider, under TUNE;
Matthews Studio Equipment Group, Burbank, Calif., a film
equipment concern, under MATT; Miami Subs Corp., Fort
Lauderdale, Fla., a restaurant operator and franchiser, under
SUBS; and Peer Review Analysis Inc., Malden, Mass., a health
care utilization management programs provider, under PRAI.
                                                                                                       

   Additionally, the Big Board said it will begin trading
long-term options on the following five stocks today:
Campbell Soup Co. under ZCA for options expiring Jan. 1993
and WCA for options expiring Jan. 1994; Chubb Corp., under
ZCU for 1993 and WCU for 1994; Fruit of the Loom Inc., under
ZTL for 1993 and WTL for 1994; Maytag Corp., under ZMY for
1993 and WMY for 1994; and Nynex Corp., under ZNY for 1993
and WNY for 1994.