Zilog Corp. Expects Its Revenue Growth
   To Speed Up as New Chips Are Shipped
   ----
   By Stephen Kreider Yoder
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Zilog, Campbell, Calif., is quickly moving away from
standard "commodity-type" chips and toward chips designed to
perform very specific functions, such as controlling computer
disk drives, answering machines and television displays. Such
"applications-specific" chips carry higher profit margins and
will help drive Zilog's gross margins up to 51% from 50% last
year and 47% in 1990, Mr. Walker said.
   Among the chips Zilog will begin shipping is one that
controls "closed captions" on TV screens, which allow
hearing-impaired viewers to read dialogue and which will be
required on most TV sets sold in the U.S. starting next year.
Zilog has contracts to supply the chip to South Korea's
Samsung Electronics Co. and Goldstar Co., among others, Mr.
Walker said. Zilog has major contracts for another new chip,
built to control all-digital answering machines, from
companies such as Tandy Corp. of Fort Worth, Texas, he said.
   With such new products, "We have the potential of having a
significant uptick" later this year in the rate of revenue
growth, compared with the approximately 10% annual growth of
the past, Mr. Walker said.
   Zilog was a major rival of Intel Corp., Santa Clara,
Calif., in the early 1980s in microprocessors, but began
losing money until 1985, when management and investment firms
bought the company from Exxon Corp. Since then, Zilog has
made a steady comeback, showing a profit every month since
March 1986, Mr. Walker said.
   Despite a sluggish electronics industry, Mr. Walker said
Zilog expects to report its fourth straight quarter of
net-income growth since it went public in February 1991.
Sales remained strong to such big customers as
Hewlett-Packard Co., Palo Alto, Calif., which uses Zilog
chips in its popular ink-jet printers, he said. Zilog shipped
a big order of chips to a South Korean television maker in
February and continues to see strong sales to such companies
as Tokyo game-maker Sega Enterprises Ltd. and modem-maker
Hayes Microcomputer Products Inc., Norcross, Ga., Mr. Walker
said.
   Mr. Walker said he was "comfortable" with securities
analysts's estimates that Zilog will report first-quarter
earnings of about $3 million, or 30 cents a share on 11.2
million shares outstanding, compared with $1.7 million, or 21
cents a share on 8.1 million shares, in the year-ago quarter.
He said he was comfortable with estimates of first-quarter
revenue of $29 million to $30 million, compared with $25.2
million a year ago.
   Zilog's gross profit margins in the first quarter will be
50% to 51%, Mr. Walker said, compared with 49.2% in the
year-ago quarter. "We've never disappointed the Street and we
intend to keep that track record," Mr. Walker said.
   For the full year, Mr. Walker said he was comfortable with
analysts' estimates that Zilog will report net income of
about $14.5 million, or $1.30 a share based on 11.2 million
outstanding shares, compared with $10.5 million, or $1.14 a
share based on 9.2 million shares last year. He said he was
comfortable with estimates that Zilog will report 1992
revenue of $125 million, compared with $110.1 million last
year.
   Mr. Walker said Zilog may use some of its $45 million cash
position for acquisitions this year, adding that the company
is "actively looking" at several companies.