British Airways
   Posts Fivefold Rise
   In Pretax Earnings
   ----
   By Tim Carrington
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The results were particularly surprising as BA counts on
North Atlantic flights for about half its earnings. With both
the U.S. and Britain mired in recession, and new rivals vying
for passengers, the times weren't expected to produce a
gusher of profits.
   Part of BA's success stems from a fierce cost-cutting
campaign that began before the Gulf War a year ago and before
the recession hit with its full force. The company dismissed
about 4,600 employees last February, or 9% of its work force.
It whacked millions off its catering budget and even quit
giving away BA lapel pins.
   Lord King, BA's chairman, said the cutbacks would
continue. "In these uncertain conditions, it's essential to
seek further cost savings," he said.
   "They got their costs under control," said James Halstead,
airline analyst with Hoare Govett Ltd. Turning to other
European carriers, he added: "I don't think Air France knows
what a cost is. Lufthansa knows it has high costs but it
doesn't do anything about it." Mr. Halstead said that Swiss
Air and KLM Royal Dutch Airlines have cut operating costs
considerably.
   In its crucial North Atlantic routes, BA is facing off
with AMR Corp.'s American Airlines and UAL Corp.'s United
Airlines, which provide stiffer competition than Pan American
World Airways and  Trans World Airlines formerly did. Faced
with stagnant economies and tough competition in the North
Atlantic, BA boosted its fares to Tokyo and Continental
Europe. The result was that BA's average fare per passenger
rose.
   BA's strong performance comes as the airline is talking
with KLM about a possible merger. As both airlines have
succeeded in chopping costs, the combination is viewed as a
potential powerhouse in the rivalry for European fares. Air
routes will be opened to ever-greater competition because
internal barriers in the European Community come down after
this year.