REVIEW  OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   Japanese Troubles
What threatens Prime Minister Miyazawa is that both he and
Mr. Abe belong to the same faction in the Liberal Democratic
Party that has dominated Japanese politics since the 1950s.
The question rattling Japan's political establishment is
whether any of Mr. Abe's alleged bribe income went into the
campaign funds of the LDP faction that last November
propelled Mr. Miyazawa into office.
   All this might be less threatening to Mr. Miyazawa had the
LDP generally enjoyed a cleaner record these past few years.
But recall that back in 1988 Mr. Miyazawa was forced to
resign from his previous post of finance minister over
connections between one of his aides and the Recruit Cosmos
stock scandal. The Recruit scandal rolled on to topple Prime
Minister Noboru Takeshita in 1989. That same year, a geisha
scandal felled Mr. Takeshita's successor, Prime Minister
Sousuke Uno. The next prime minister, Toshiki Kaifu, held
onto his job for two years. During Mr. Kaifu's tenure,
however, the spotlight turned to the financial sector, where
a series of scandals in 1991 brought such sights as the
president of Japan's biggest brokerage house, Nomura,
apologizing and resigning.
   When this tide of scandal first began to flow some four
years ago, the question was why the Japanese people seemed
offended by what had long been taken as standard operating
procedure in Japanese politics and finance. Our sense of it
was that the increasingly sophisticated Japanese electorate
was showing its irritation with an unresponsive ruling LDP
that catered first to the demands of the state bureaucracy
and last to the voters.
   The biggest straw in the wind was the public outrage over
an unwanted 3% sales tax, demanded by the Ministry of Finance
and approved in late 1988 by the LDP. It was about the same
time that the Recruit scandal went ballistic. In elections
the following August 1989, the LDP for the first time in
decades lost its majority in the upper house of the Diet, a
significant event even though the upper house is relatively
weak.
   The LDP might have recognized then that Japan had evolved
radically since the 1950s. It's no longer a farm-based
developing nation with an electorate intent mainly on
recovering from World War II and willing to tolerate a vast
web of regulation and so-called administrative guidance.
Japan today is an economic superpower, whose voters are more
inclined to demand respect from their elected leaders, as
well as the higher living standards appropriate to their high
incomes. But they've got a problem: The Japanese people
remain saddled with politicians and bureaucrats who still
worship rice fields and who try to fine tune a $3 trillion
economy.
   While fine tuning to channel all that wealth, politicians
and bureaucrats come to wield a lot of clout. It's
predictable that people in such positions are tempted to take
bribes. It's also natural that public disgust over this kind
of corruption should continue to grow as the rusty
regulations remain in place and the scandals multiply.
   Japan deserves world respect for producing such marvels as
some of the world's most sought-after cars. But it's time for
Japan's politicians to get serious about deregulating the
Japanese economy. At the moment, there's not much evidence
that the politicians and public-sector bureaucrats are
inclined to get their clumsy hands off the marketplace -- in
Japan, or here in the U.S.