Insurers Studying
   Possible Assistance
   For Mutual Benefit
   ----
   By Susan Pulliam
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
"I am hopeful that a plan will emerge that has a safety
net feature that may make it possible to attract an
investor," said Victor Palmieri, who was appointed by the New
Jersey insurance department to oversee Mutual Benefit, which
is based in Newark.
   In the short run, however, the development will mean
further delays for policyholders, who have been without
access to the cash value of their policies since July, when
Mutual Benefit was seized by regulators. The insurer has,
however, continued to make all regular payments to
policyholders and to pay death benefits.
   Mr. Palmieri said he may not be ready to present a plan to
the courts until July. Originally, he had said that he hoped
to present a plan to the courts by mid-February.
   Some industry analysts have said that Mutual Benefit would
have had a negative net worth of between $500 million and $1
billion when regulators seized the company in July if its
assets were carried at market value. Presumably, the life
insurance group, working on behalf of the National
Organization of Life and Health Guaranty Associations, would
provide a portion of the amount necessary to help eliminate
that deficit.
   The July schedule for a plan may be set back even further,
Mr. Palmieri said, because of a provision in the Bush
administration's tax package that makes it harder for him to
sell or form a joint venture with other companies on Mutual
Benefit's corporate-owned life insurance business.
   Under the proposal, companies would no longer be able to
deduct the interest on loans taken out against the value of
life insurance policies on certain employees, such as
directors. As a result, Mr. Palmieri said, most of Mutual
Benefit's corporate-owned life insurance policies would
lapse.
   "The revenue stream from the existing block of business is
a huge part of their business, representing hundreds of
millions of dollars," Mr. Palmieri said.