Technology:
   Groupe Bull Mulls
   Link With Either
   IBM or Hewlett
   ----
   By Laurence Hooper
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
IBM and Hewlett have been widely named in press reports as
Bull's suitors. Still, both companies yesterday remained
reticent about the talks.
   Bull is interested in finding a new partner in a
computer-chip technology called Risc, which serves as the
engine for highpowered computer workstations. Hewlett has the
hottest Risc chip at the moment; while IBM is touting a new
standard it will develop with Apple Computer Inc. and
Motorola Inc.
   Mr. Lorentz also confirmed that any final agreement would
include a small equity stake in Bull -- a symbolic
counterbalance to the 4.7% stake held by Japan's NEC Corp.
   A Bull spokesman said Mr. Lorentz's main purpose in
talking to French reporters was to calm some of the wilder
speculation that has dominated the country's business press
in recent weeks. Yesterday, for example, French petroleum
giant Elf Aquitaine denied reports that it is being pushed to
take a stake in Bull.
   Mr. Lorentz also wished to give a more realistic sense of
timing on the negotiations, the spokesman added. He said that
"it will take some time" to conclude any alliance. Bull must
first make its recommendations to the French government, Mr.
Lorentz noted, which would then make a decision and pass the
matter back to Bull.
   The possible technical agreements with both companies are
still being hammered out, a process that always takes longer
than expected. Industry executives said IBM is pushing for a
broader pact than Bull originally envisioned, possibly
including sales by Bull of IBM-made personal computers.
Hewlett is said to be willing to match many of IBM's
proposals. Both companies are eager to get new outlets for
their technology in Europe.
   Separately, Bull said it had raised $1.1 billion in loans
and credit, mainly to refinance and consolidate a web of
debts connected with its ongoing restructuring. About $850
million in loans will be advanced by a syndicate of 30 banks,
led by J.P. Morgan, National Westminster, Banque Nationale de
Paris and Societe Generale, the company said.
   An additional credit line of $250 million was agreed on by
a number of banks outside France, the company said. Bull and
the French government are likely to cite these new financing
arrangements as a further argument for investing more state
funds in the troubled company.