International:
   Mexico Cracks Down on Pollution,
   Spurred in Part by Trade Politics
   ----
   By Dianna Solis
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The emergency measures were instituted Thursday afternoon
after levels of ozone, one of the more dangerous air
pollutants, hit 342 on the Mexican air quality index. Ozone
readings between 100 and 200 are considered unsatisfactory by
the World Health Organization; readings above 300 are very
dangerous.
   Coincidentally, the emergency measures were taken as the
U.S. Commerce Department staged a trade show in Mexico City
for some of the largest U.S. environmental services
companies. For them, the emergency measures only amplified
the need for their services. U.S. and Mexican firms, small
and large, are trying to cash in on new Mexican awareness of
pollution and the host of new environmental laws going on the
books. They are offering everything from face masks to waste
incinerators, from emissions-control equipment to
multimillion-dollar environmental audits.
   But entrepreneurs say it isn't going to be easy money.
Mexican awareness, and militancy, about pollution is in its
infancy. There is a lack of environmental expertise, and the
uneven pace of regulatory change testifies to the lack of
agreement on the right approach to cleanups.
   Consider Jorge Van Bertrab, who sells carbon-filter face
masks. He launched his commercial counterpunch on pollution
only a whiff away from an infamous oil refinery. The daily
belchings from the Eighteenth of March refinery were snuffed
last spring by the government in a blitz of publicity.
Mexicans at first shied away from the face masks, fearing
they would look silly -- until ozone levels soared in
November and December. "We sold in one week what we couldn't
sell in eight months," says the entrepreneur.
   In past years, Mexico was busy with other pressing
problems. But as the economy has begun to recover, awareness
of the serious pollution problem has grown. The Ministry of
Urban Development and Ecology, for example, is less than 10
years old. The Mexico City anti-pollution commission that
ordered the emergency measures last week is barely a month
old. And Mexico inked its comprehensive federal environmental
law a mere three years ago. Moreover, universities have only
begun to offer classes in environmental science or to train
engineers in industrial hygiene.
   The nascent crackdown is propelled as much by pollution as
by international politics. Mexico is trying to complete
negotiations for a free-trade pact with the U.S. and Canada
by mid-March. The chief trade negotiators of all three
countries met yesterday in Virginia to try to jump-start the
negotiations, which have stalled on several fronts, including
protection of the environment. This developing country of 82
million can ill-afford to have the pact derailed by continued
charges that its lax enforcement of environmental laws will
attract runaway manufacturers in the U.S. seeking to escape
tougher enforcement at home.
   Thus, last month Mexico's ecology ministry doubled the
number of inspectors to 200 along the 2,000-mile Mexico-U.S.
border, a polluted industrial corridor of assembly factories
known as "maquilas." Over the next three years, Mexico will
spend $460 million there to clean contamination and
strengthen the infrastructure of roads, bridges and sewage
systems. All new industries must now submit environmental
impact reports.
   Last year in Mexico City, 600 polluting factories were
closed, about six times the average rate of the previous two
years. But most of the closures were temporary and, in many
cases, partial. "They will just cut off the last line in your
product; you can still keep 80% of your process going," says
Enrique Medina, head of Industrial Ecology International, a
U.S.-Mexico environmental consulting firm in San Diego.
   Just the same, industry is bracing. "It appears obvious to
me that Mexico is trying to make a statement in light of the
free-trade agreement," says Robert Jones of Jones  Neuse
Inc. of Austin, Texas, an environmental engineering firm. He
says that it took the U.S. 20 years to devise its body of
environmental laws, while Mexico imposed its regulations in
one fell swoop. "It's an honorable goal but they are moving
too fast," he says.
   To illustrate his point, Mr. Jones says one Mexican firm
took him aback last month by explaining its waste-water
treatment technique -- dumping industrial liquids directly
into a natural stream. Government inspectors partly shuttered
the plant until it complies with regulations limiting the
chemicals allowed in such discharges. But only three private
labs in Mexico City can determine exactly what's in a plant's
effluent and how to treat it, Mr. Jones says. "There is
nowhere near the capacity in Mexico to perform that service,"
he says.
   That will change. Mr. Jones estimates Mexico's
environmental-services industry will expand to $5 billion to
$7 billion in sales in five years from its current $100
million. He could be right, if Texaco Inc.'s experience is
any guide. The energy multinational operates an oil-recycling
plant in central Mexico. After a government inspection late
last year, it began installing about $50 million of U.S.-made
emission-control equipment.