Publishing:
   Presidential Race Promises Fewer Books
   ----
   By Timothy Noah
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The 1992 campaign, which begins with a sitting president
struggling to win votes in his own Republican party and a
wildly unpredictable scramble among Democrats, would seem to
have all the dramatic twists and turns of a pulp thriller.
But "publishers really are gun shy" about signing up campaign
books, says Raphael Sagalyn, a Washington-based agent.
   The field isn't completely empty. As in 1988, Warner Books
has signed up a Teddy White-style insider's narrative of the
current presidential contest, to be written by veteran
political columnists Jack Germond and Jules Witcover. In
addition, Hyperion has signed up Los Angeles Times reporter
Thomas Rosenstiel to write a book on media coverage of the
election -- though Mr. Rosenstiel insists it is "not really a
campaign book." A third campaign volume will be cobbled
together by a team of Newsweek reporters but hasn't yet been
sold to a publishing house.
   But that's far fewer campaign books than in 1988, when a
half-dozen political reporters on the trail signed up with
publishing houses, including Thomas Oliphant of the Boston
Globe, Paul Taylor of the Washington Post and Sidney
Blumenthal, now with the New Republic.
   Mr. Taylor's effort, "See How They Run," was a
media-focused narrative published by Knopf that sold, he
says, nearly 18,000 copies. Mr. Taylor says writing the book
was "very satisfying." But he can't say the same for the
campaign. Writing the book, he says, "crystallized some
frustrations I feel about the electoral process" -- so much
so that shortly after he completed the book, Mr. Taylor
abandoned the political beat altogether.
   Two of the more successful political books written by
reporters who covered the 1988 presidential election weren't
really about the campaign at all. E.J. Dionne, author of "Why
Americans Hate Politics" (Simon  Schuster), and Thomas
Edsall, author with Mary Edsall of "Chain Reaction" (W.W.
Norton), instead provided analyses of long-term political
trends dating back to the 1960s.
   Campaign books "don't on the whole work," says Alice
Mayhew, an editor at Simon  Schuster. As if to underscore
her point, Ms. Mayhew asks whether Simon  Schuster published
Newsweek's 1988 campaign volume in hardcover. The book --
which Ms. Mayhew herself acquired, according to the book's
agent, Rosene Saal -- was indeed published in hardcover, but
only about 16,000 were reportedly sold.
   Random House has much higher hopes for Richard Ben
Cramer's "What It Takes," a group portrait of several
candidates in the 1988 race to be published in June. But Mr.
Cramer argues even more strenuously than Mr. Rosenstiel that
his work shouldn't be mistaken for a campaign book. "It's not
a book about the campaign, it's a book about the
campaigners," he says. Editor David Rosenthal adds that the
book has more in common with Tom Wolfe's "The Right Stuff"
than with "The Making of the President."
   When is a campaign book not a campaign book? In the case
of "What It Takes," when it is a planned six-year project
whose execution costs several hundred thousand dollars; has a
Mylar cover; sells for $28; and is more than 1,000 pages
long. "I certainly expect it to be a major best seller," says
Mr. Rosenthal.
   Another campaign book not regarded as such by its
publisher is "Born to Run," a biography of candidate Bob
Kerrey due out from St. Martin's Press in May. According to
editor Robert Weil, the book was signed up last spring,
before Mr. Kerrey declared his candidacy for president. "I
saw this sort of as a Ron Kovic, `Born on the Fourth of July'
kind of book," says Mr. Weil. Still, he concedes that the
fate of Mr. Kerrey's campaign will strongly affect sales. "I
hear rumors he may be a vice presidential candidate," says
Mr. Weil hopefully.
   Other noncampaign books about individual candidates are
scheduled or at least being contemplated. A lengthy newspaper
profile of Vice President Dan Quayle by Washington Post
reporters Bob Woodward and David Broder will be published as
a book by Simon  Schuster in August; a less respectful entry
by humorist Joe Queenan, titled "Imperial Caddy," is due out
from Hyperion in October. Simon  Schuster will publish a
biography of Mr. Quayle's boss, President Bush, by Time
magazine reporters Michael Duffy and Dan Goodgame that Ms.
Mayhew says will be out before the election.
   In addition, Paul Tsongas's surprise surge has created a
minor whirlpool of book activity. Jon Sawyer, a reporter with
the St. Louis Post-Dispatch, has taken a leave of absence to
write a book about the Tsongas campaign, though he has not
yet signed up a publisher. Meanwhile, agent Esther Newberg is
peddling to publishers Mr. Tsongas's famous 85-page campaign
pamphlet, "A Call to Economic Arms." A paperback edition of
Mr. Tsongas's 1984 book, "Heading Home," will be published by
Vintage in April.
   Mr. White's groundbreaking first campaign book about the
election of President Kennedy, "The Making of the President
1960," sold more than 150,000 hardcover copies. (Mr. White
died in 1986.) That's roughly six times as many copies as any
book about the 1988 race published thus far. The
less-acclaimed successor volumes in Mr. White's series,
covering the elections of 1964, 1968 and 1972, never dipped
below 60,000 copies.
   Mr. White's literary and financial success encouraged
other political reporters to write books about presidential
campaigns. Some of these, such as Joe McGinniss's "The
Selling of the President 1968" on Richard Nixon's campaign
and Timothy Crouse's "The Boys on the Bus" about the 1972
race, enjoyed a popularity rivaling Mr. White's own. As
recently as 1977, Mr. Witcover's "Marathon," an account of
the 1976 race, was a main selection of the Book of the Month
Club.
   Today, however, campaign books are less alluring. One
reason is an increase in campaign analysis in daily
newspapers and weekly newsmagazines. "Newspaper and magazine
journalists, not being completely stupid, began doing what
Teddy White had done," explains R. W. Apple of the New York
Times.
   Another problem is a greater ruthlessness by campaigns in
granting access. After Newsweek published a cover story about
candidate George Bush and "the wimp factor" in 1988,
reporters on Newsweek's campaign book were cut off by Bush
staffers. The freeze-out was so effective that the magazine
considered abandoning its book project.
   Eventually it did find a publisher -- but only after the
election was over. When the book was published, there was no
Washington book party, as there had been for a volume
published by Bantam four years earlier.
   "I'm not being a grumpy author complaining," says Newsweek
contributing editor Peter Goldman. "I think it reflects a
feeling in this industry that these books are not what they
were in Teddy White's day. They're not going to be megaton
best sellers."
   ---
              Campaign Books Through the Ages
                                                                                                       

                                                   HARDCOVER
   TITLE            AUTHOR              PUBLISHER    SALES
                                                                                                       

 The making of the  Theodore H. White   Atheneum    153,000
   President 1960
 The Making of the  Theodore H. White   Atheneum    111,000
   President 1964
 The Making of the  Theodore H. White   Atheneum     65,000
   President 1968
 The Selling of the                     Simon      150,000*
   President 1968   Joe McGinniss       Schuster

   President 1972
 The Quest for the  Peter Goldman and   Bantam       18,000*
   Presidency ('84) Newsweek team
 Whose Broad
   Stripes and
   Bright Stars?    Jack Germond and    Warner       25,000
   ('88)            Jules Witcover      Books
 The Quest for the  Peter Goldman and   Simon       16,000*
   Presidency ('88) Newsweek team       Schuster     18,000*
 See How They Run   Paul Taylor         Knopf
   ('88)
                                                                                                       

   *Estimate based on information from author, agent or
publishing source (official figures not available from
publisher)