Commodities:
   Oil Prices Decline, Apparently in a Correction;
   Pressure Builds on Saudi Arabia to Cut Output
   ----
   By James Tanner
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
But some traders and analysts said the declines were a
technical correction after last week's price run-up. They
said the voluntary production cuts -- by five of OPEC's 13
members so far -- could help to hold a floor under prices
until the oil ministers meet next month. As a result, they
said, a short-term pricing bottom may be near.
   The ministers will meet Feb. 12 in Geneva to decide on a
production level for the second quarter, which usually brings
a seasonal decline in oil demand. There is a growing sense --
further supported by the latest cuts -- that the meeting will
bring an across-the-board reduction in total OPEC output,
which recently exceeded 24 million barrels a day.
   "It looks like OPEC will cut 5% of production," said John
Hill, a vice president with the Merrill Lynch energy trading
desk, "and traders don't want to be short."
   Iran and Algeria announced yesterday that they will reduce
production this week by 50,000 and 20,000 barrels a day,
respectively, to prop up prices until the Feb. 12 meeting.
That brought OPEC's total voluntary cuts so far to 200,000
barrels a day.
   That is much less than the volume of cuts generally
believed necessary for oil prices to hold firm through the
second quarter. "These symbolic cuts will have to be deeper,
more sustained and at least matched by fellow OPEC members if
the organization is to prevent a slide in prices," reported
the Weekly Petroleum Argus.
   Even though the cuts to date are modest, the accumulation
of them is intended to put added pressure on Saudi Arabia,
the OPEC kingpin, to reduce its huge output, recently 8.5
million barrels a day. Saudi officials previously have
suggested they would consider reducing second-quarter volumes
if across-the-board cuts permitted Saudi Arabia to maintain
its current percentage of OPEC output.
   Also, there was word yesterday from another Persian Gulf
producer, the United Arab Emirates, that it supports
across-the-board reductions. According to Dow Jones
International Petroleum Report, an oil ministry official said
the United Arab Emirates is ready to cut its own output,
currently averaging about 2.5 million barrels a day, to help
OPEC stabilize the market in the second quarter. "The market
is really deteriorating," the ministry official said.
   In other commodity markets yesterday:
                                                                                                       

   GRAINS AND SOYBEANS: Soybean futures prices fell as
prospects improved for Argentina's soybean crop, coupled with
perceptions that the U.S. soybean crop also will be large
this year. Argentina's soybean-growing regions, ravaged by
recent flooding, got relief from the rain over the weekend.
Traders, who had bid up soybean prices last week, took the
improving weather as an indication that Argentina's crop
might not be as badly damaged as expected, said Richard
Loewy, president of AgResource Co., Chicago. In addition,
traders are increasingly aware of the gradual shift of U.S.
soybean-growing acreage out of the Southeast and Mississippi
delta areas, which traditionally are low-yielding regions, to
higher-yielding areas in the northern Plains and Great Lakes
regions. This means that over the long term, U.S. soybean
production is likely to increase. The price of the soybean
contract for March delivery fell 5 1/4 cents to $5.7375 a
bushel.
                                                                                                       

   PRECIOUS METALS: Gold took its turn in the spotlight,
rising sharply on technical factors early in the day, then
backpedaling to end just modestly higher. After trading as
high as $361.50, gold for February delivery ended $3.70 an
ounce higher at $358.20. March silver lost 1.3 cents an ounce
to finish at $4.277. George Milling-Stanley, precious-metals
analyst at Shearson Lehman Brothers, attributed gold's rise
to technical factors, such as short-covering in Europe.
Traders cover short positions, or bets that the price will
fall, by buying offsetting contracts. "Local" floor traders
in New York also helped push prices up to levels where they
believed large, standing buy orders from commodity funds
would be triggered, he added. Stephen Platt, vice president
of Dean Witter in Chicago, added that yesterday's
precious-metals activity also reflected traders' selling
silver and buying gold to unwind their long-silver-short-gold
spreads -- bets that silver will rise and gold fall.
Prospects of improved gold demand and reduced supply this
year call for higher prices, Mr. Milling-Stanley said.
Silver's fundamentals, however, don't justify its current
high price, he said. Although speculative activity sent
silver prices soaring last week, there isn't enough of it to
keep the rally going, he said, predicting a correction.
                                                                                                       

   ORANGE JUICE: Futures prices continued to fall sharply.
Juice for March delivery ended at $1.4505 a pound, down 4.1
cents. Orange juice prices have fallen more than 13 cents in
the past week. Prices had run up on the possibility of a
Florida freeze, but because temperatures didn't fall enough
to damage the orange crop, traders liquidated their long
positions by selling offsetting contracts, said Mr. Platt of
Dean Witter. Also contributing to the weakness have been
reports from processors that indicate the orange harvest is
exceeding government forecasts, he added. Prices at current
levels could begin to receive some support from buying by
processors, he predicted.