UAL to Trim
   Capital Outlays
   By $3.6 Billion
   ---
   Plan to Cut Fleet's Growth
   Is Aimed at Stabilizing
   Carrier's Balance Sheet
   ----
   By Brett Pulley and Roy J. Harris Jr.
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
"They've reached two saturation points: the balance sheet
and the domestic market," said Kevin Murphy, an airline
industry analyst at Morgan Stanley  Co.
   While United's revamped plan to take delivery of 122 fewer
planes during the 1992-1995 period will trim spending by
about 22%, it doesn't bode well for Boeing Co., the
aircraft's manufacturer.
   Boeing sought to play down the impact from the
announcement, even though the Seattle aerospace concern is
United's sole supplier of new aircraft. Boeing has about 17%
of its backlog earmarked for United. "The guts of it is that
no orders or options have been canceled," a Boeing spokesman
said. Rather, he said, United has "asked, and we've agreed,
to let both orders and options slide into later years."
   Earlier, United had set a $15.8 billion spending plan for
the three-year period. Now, under the new plan, the carrier
will spend $12.2 billion. Additionally, two weeks ago, when
United reported its largest quarterly loss ever of $252.6
million, the airline said it would trim capital spending by
"a minimum of $2 billion."
   United has orders and options on 278 aircraft for delivery
in the three-year period, but now it plans to take delivery
on only 156 of those planes. United refused to say how many
of the original 278 aircraft were firm orders and how many
were options, but the airline did say that if all of the
options were exercised, its spending plan for the three-year
period would have totaled $18.9 billion.
   Other carriers have recently taken similar measures.
USAir, a unit of USAir Group Inc., last year rearranged its
fleet growth program to enhance its liquidity by about $1
billion. And in September, AMR Corp.'s American Airlines
announced plans to cut its capital expenditures over the next
four years to about $13 billion from $21 billion.
   United said that it will take the entire 66 aircraft it
has firm orders on for this year, and for the entire period
it will continue to take wide-body aircraft to support its
long-haul international business. But the largest cutbacks
will be narrow-body 737 and 757 aircraft, typically used for
domestic service.
   Industry analysts say that the saturated domestic market
and the subsequent scaled-back fleet growth plans should
enhance profits in the coming years, because carriers will be
left with less capacity to fill.
   "For the industry this is a very positive sign. Because
when you add aircraft you've got to fill the seats," said
Paul Karos, an airline analyst at First Boston Corp. In late
New York Stock Exchange composite trading, UAL shares were
quoted at $144.25, down 87.5 cents, while Boeing stock was at
$48, down $1.375.
   The Boeing spokesman also said that the United delays were
already reflected in his company's recent decision to slash
production of its smallest jetliner model, the 737, by
one-third, starting in October, to 14 per month.
   Phil Friedman of Morgan Stanley  Co. noted that the 737,
which carries from 108 to 170 passengers in its various
models and cabin configurations and sells for between $25
million and $30 million, probably produces Boeing's lowest
profit margin. Any serious delays among the larger 757s,
planes priced in the $50 million range, could hurt Boeing
more, he said.
   Boeing last month increased its rate for making the
twin-engine 757 to 8.5 per month from seven. Asked whether
delays could lead production to be reduced again, the Boeing
spokesman said the rate "isn't being reviewed, at least not
in the near term."
   Boeing has projected that 1,100 layoffs might result from
the 737 production-rate change in its Wichita, Kan.,
facility, where 21,800 work on various military and
commercial programs, including building work amounting to
about 75% of the 737. In Renton, Wash., where the 737 is
assembled, Boeing hasn't estimated the employment impact of
the production cut.