Law -- Legal Beat:
   University Can Give Student Fees
   To Partisan Groups, Court Rules
   ----
   By Junda Woo and Michael Allen
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
These causes included Amnesty International, gay and
lesbian rights, the reelection of U.S. Rep. Ron Dellums and a
local marijuana initiative. A similar suit later by 32
Berkeley students against the student government was merged
into the first one.
   The appellate court, which first ruled in favor of the
university in the 1980s, re-decided the case this week in
light of a 1990 U.S. Supreme Court decision concerning
California state bar dues. In that case, the Supreme Court
found that associations violate free-speech rights when they
compel members to pay to support the group's ideological
causes.
   The Berkeley case is different, the appellate court said,
because politics isn't germane to a bar association but is to
educating university students. "The court regarded the
activity as educational -- one which supplements classroom
education by exposing the students to divergent views," the
ruling states. Citing a North Carolina case in which students
unsuccessfully challenged the use of mandatory student fees
to fund a student newspaper whose views they disapproved of,
the appellate court wrote, "The very nature of university
education presupposes free expression of divergent views."
   Pacific Legal Foundation, a Sacramento-based conservative
group that represented the students, said it will appeal the
case to the California Supreme Court. "It's my opinion that
it's not going to hold up," said Anthony Caso, a foundation
attorney. "You can't take money from people and use it for
political purposes against their will."
   "Groups on the left have very little trouble being
funded," said Steve Balch, president of the National
Association of Scholars, a Princeton, N.J., organization,
mostly supported by conservative foundations. "Groups on the
right do."
   Harvard University is one of the few schools that let
students refuse to allow their fee money to be spent on
causes. David Aronberg, chairman of the undergraduate
council, said about 16% of students choose to withhold money.
"But I don't think people should be allowed to get a free
ride," he added.
   At the University of Texas at Austin, which doesn't give
students a choice, student body leader Garth Davis said the
practice is justified because the students who distribute
money are elected. "That's what democracy is all about," he
said. (Smith vs. Regents, Court of AppealFirst Appellate
District, Calif., AO20553)
   ---
   JONES DAY LAUNCHES consulting business in Dallas.
   In what it describes as a legal-industry first, Jones,
Day, Reavis  Pogue formed a consulting affiliate to help
corporations manage their intellectual property.
   Former Texas Instruments Inc. General Patent Counsel
Melvin Sharp, who designed the semiconductor concern's highly
aggressive patent enforcement program, was named to head the
Dallas-based affiliate, known as Innovative Strategies Ltd.
   About 70 law firms are believed to have developed
ancillary non-legal businesses, ranging from investment and
trust advisory units to financial institution consultants.
But Jones Day, a national firm based in Cleveland, says its
new affiliate is the first to focus on intellectual property,
an increasingly important area for high technology companies.
   Since Mr. Sharp's program began at Texas Instruments in
1986, the company has generated more than $900 million in
royalties -- much of it from decades-old inventions -- or
more than its net income during the period.
   Mr. Sharp said Innovative Strategies's initial clients
include Texas Instruments; Cyrix Corp., a small chipmaker;
and AMP Inc., a big maker of electrical connection devices.
He said the new arrangement gives him more billing
flexibility than he would have had as a Jones Day partner by,
for example, allowing Innovative Strategies to charge per
project rather than per hour or to contract for a cut of the
royalties a client receives.
   Other employees of Innovative Strategies include James T.
Comfort, a former Group Patent Counsel at Texas Instruments,
and James L. Baumoel, managing partner of Jones Day's Dallas
and Austin offices.
   ---
   ELECTRONIC DATA SYSTEMS loses trademark appeal against
smaller firm.
   The federal circuit appeals court, whose duties include
reviewing decisions of the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office,
ruled that the Dallas computer-service company can't stop
Engineering Design  Sales Inc. of Danville, Va., from
registering a trademark with the letters "EDS."
   Both companies use block letters in a nearly identical
stylized box, and both sell to Sears, Roebuck  Co. and
General Motors Corp., of which Electronic Data Services is a
unit. But the appeals court disputed a Trademark Trial and
Appeal Board finding that the similarities could confuse.
   Engineering Design  Sales makes battery chargers and
power supplies. "There is no evidence," the court wrote,
"that those computer specialists in the administrative
departments at General Motors responsible for purchasing
computer services are also responsible for purchasing battery
chargers."
   Vincent N. Palladino, a partner in the New York law firm
Fish  Neave, said the decision confirms a shift toward
"realism" by the appeals court. Previously, he said, the
court has oversimplified trademark cases by fixating on a
logo's looks and on the general area in which it is used.
(Engineering Design  Sales vs. Electronic Data Systems, U.S.
Court of Appeals, Federal Circuit, Washington, D.C., 90-1100)
   ---
   GENCORP UNIT'S INSURERS win verdict in dispute over
hazardous waste cleanup.
   A California jury ruled that insurers of Aerojet General
Corp. Inc., a unit of GenCorp Inc., don't have to pay an
estimated $150 million for a hazardous waste cleanup at an
Aerojet plant.
   The ruling apparently leaves the company on the hook for
the full amount of the cleanup, which it had been hoping to
pass on to its insurance companies.
   GenCorp said it would appeal the decision, in which a San
Mateo, Calif., Superior Court jury affirmed the right of 30
insurance companies to deny paying Aerojet's claims for
cleanup costs.
   The case began in 1982 as a dispute over who should pay to
clean up ground water contaminated by a cleaning solvent
called trichloroethylene that had been dumped in areas around
Aerojet's Sacramento, Calif., plant periodically since the
1950s. Among the insurers involved in the suit were Lloyd's
of London, ITT Corp.'s Hartford Accident  Indemnity Co. unit
and Aetna Casualty  Surety Co., a unit of Aetna Life 
Casualty Co.
   GenCorp, an aerospace, automotive and polymer products
concern, claimed it was unaware of any pollution problems at
the site. But insurers argued that the company knowingly
dumped the solvent, a potential carcinogen, into nearby
grounds and ponds.
   The two sides will return to court in two weeks to argue
whether the insurers are obligated to pay for GenCorp's legal
expenses associated with the cleanup claims, which are
estimated at $35 million.