Fed Bank Probes
   Possible `Squeezes'
   In Treasury Issues
   ----
   By John Connor
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Mr. Sternlight also said the New York Fed has made
inquiries to dealers regarding tightness of certain five-year
note issues. He said several telephone calls were made to
dealers to try to better understand reasons for that
tightness. He identified the five-year notes sold last
December as having been particularly tight.
   Some market players have complained about what they
described as squeeze-like conditions for a time with
five-year notes sold last November, December and January.
According to some players, the tightness of some recent
Treasury issues mainly reflects heavy market demand for
Treasury securities to serve as a hedge against the
voluminous quantities of corporate and mortgage-backed
securities that have come to market in recent months.
   Mr. Sternlight indicated the New York Fed hasn't arrived
at any conclusions from its inquiries. "We're trying to get
information," he said. "We don't have answers at this point."
   A Treasury spokeswoman declined to comment on the matter.
The Treasury this year unveiled a new policy of reopening its
securities issues to combat squeezes, but stressed that the
policy will be used only for "acute" and "protracted"
shortages. No issues have been reopened yet. The reopening
policy is a by-product of the government's ongoing review of
the bond scandal involving Salomon Inc.'s Salomon Brothers
Inc. unit.
   The probe began last spring when Treasury, alarmed at a
squeeze in its May two-year notes, asked the Securities and
Exchange Commission to look into Salomon's government
bond-market activities. The SEC and the Justice Department
continue to investigate the May squeeze as well as a squeeze
in two-year Treasury notes sold last April. Also, the SEC has
confirmed it is "investigating other reports of possible
short squeezes in connection with recent Treasury auctions."
   The New York Fed recently has stepped up its
market-surveillance activities sharply. Mr. Sternlight
confirmed recent press reports that the New York Fed sent a
letter to primary dealers this month seeking information on
the seven-year notes.
   Peter Bakstansky, a spokesman for the New York Fed,
stressed of the Fed's seven-year note inquiry that "we're not
prejudging this; we're doing this as part of our market
surveillance."