Corporate Focus:
   Texas Instruments Braces for Long-Awaited Growth
   ---
   Firm to Boost Production, Shift
   To More-Lucrative Custom Chip Market
   ----
   By Michael Allen
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
If he sounds frustrated, it's easy to understand why. Four
years after TI launched one of the biggest expansions of chip
capacity in history, the semiconductor industry remains in a
slump, and the company is expecting anemic market growth of
8% this year. TI has been staggered by six straight quarters
of losses totaling nearly half a billion dollars and has cut
some 8,000 jobs, or 11% of the work force, over the last year
through layoffs, early retirement and attrition.
   But despite recent trends and their gloomy outlook for
1992 market conditions, TI executives view this as a
turnaround year for the beleaguered company. With the bulk of
its capital expenditures behind it, TI expects to rapidly
expand its production of advanced memory chips, while
accelerating its move into more-lucrative custom chip lines.
Officials claim they're taking market share from competitors
even in the teeth of the recession, by strengthening customer
ties.
   "We're not assuming any major help from the economy or the
markets for 1992, and we are planning as best we can to be
profitable in 1992," says Mr. Weber.
   By and large, analysts plan for profitability, too, with
the average 1992 projection in the range of $164 million, or
$2 a share. And, if the world economy starts to recover
anytime soon, they say TI could be on the verge of phenomenal
gains.
   "I don't think TI's been this well-poised for growth for
maybe 10 years," says Jerry Banks, a technology analyst with
Dataquest Inc., a San Jose, Calif., research concern.
   For better or worse, TI's current situation stems from its
strategic decision in 1987 to vastly increase its ability to
produce submicron memory chips using state-of-the-art
complementary metal oxide-silicon (CMOS) technology, which
uses less power and generates less heat than earlier
products. The decision committed TI to battle toe-to-toe with
the big Japanese conglomerates that had come to dominate the
cyclical memory chip business.
   So far, it has been a bloodbath, with even the Japanese
listing from heavy losses caused by a prolonged market slump
that has seen industry sales rise by less than 10% for a
record three consecutive years. And TI, with its higher cost
of capital, has been particularly hard-hit. Last year,
hobbled by heavy depreciation expenses and big one-time
charges for work force reduction, the company reported its
biggest net loss ever, of $409 million, or $5.40 a share, on
revenue of $6.78 billion.
   But TI officials insist 1992 will be different. After
capital expenditures of $909 million and $504 million in 1990
and 1991, respectively, the company plans to spend just $425
million on plant and equipment this year. Future capacity
expansion may take even fewer resources, since TI has formed
a series of joint ventures -- with Acer Inc. in Taiwan; with
Hewlett-Packard Co., Canon Inc. and the local government in
Singapore; and with Kobe Steel Ltd. in Japan -- for the rest
of the plant build-out, scheduled for completion in 1993. And
cost reductions undertaken last year are expected to trim
about $220 million from expenses in 1992.
   Perhaps equally important, TI expects this year to reach
volume production of one million chips a month in its new
facility in Avezzano, Italy, after some costly false starts,
as well as in its Miho, Japan, factory and in its joint
venture with Acer. Most of the product will be dynamic
random-access memory chips, or DRAMs, capable of holding four
million pieces of information.
   Although demand for the four megabit chips has been slow
to materialize -- mostly due to the slump in world-wide
computer sales -- analysts expect a significant upswing this
year, as hardware makers switch from earlier chip generations
to accommodate memory-gobbling software programs such as
Microsoft's Windows.
   But TI insists that its expansion strategy, which
envisions an eightfold increase in submicron CMOS capacity
over the next several years, isn't aimed merely at the fickle
memory market. They note that they have already started to
produce advanced logic devices, such as digital signal
processors, in the new wafer factory, taking advantage of the
engineering breakthroughs they achieved in learning how to
make memory chips with circuits eight-tenths of a micron
wide, or about one-hundredth the width of a human hair.
   TI has made a strong push into such so-called
differentiated products, which typically sell for many times
the price of commodity memory chips; last year, for the first
time, differentiated product sales represented the largest
single segment of TI's chip business, or about 35%, and over
the next few years the company is aiming to reach 50%.
   Current and former company employees attribute the gains
in this area in large part to TI's newfound willingness to
work closely with customers, never a strong suit before Jerry
R. Junkins was appointed president and chief executive
officer in 1985. Indeed, TI's misreading of the market led to
epic foul-ups in past decades, from its failure to make a
microprocessor that customers and software designers could
live with, to its hugely expensive failure in the home
computer market in the early 1980s.
   In recent years, though, TI has been making a concerted
effort to change its stripes, an effort that hasn't gone
unnoticed by customers. "They're a much easier company to
work with today than they were 10 or 12 years ago," says John
Stark, director of supplier and purchasing development for
Delco Electronics Corp., a Kokomo, Ind., unit of General
Motors Corp. Partly by beefing up its Indiana field service
operations, TI recently won a big contract from Delco to help
design a new generation of microcontroller to be used to run
the electronic guts of cars.
   Meanwhile, TI has quietly become the biggest outside
supplier of semiconductors to Sony Corp., for use in
everything from camcorders to Walkman radios.
   Of course, some might argue that being a major supplier to
Japanese consumer electronics companies and Detroit auto
makers isn't much to brag about these days. And TI officials
concede they are concerned about the near-term outlook in
both areas. But they insist their basic strategy of preparing
for an eventual electronics boom is a sound one, and they
remain unapologetic.
   "What goes up, must come down," says Mr. Weber. "And what
goes down, must come up."
   ---
             Texas Instruments by the Numbers
                                                                                                       

                     The Fundamentals
                                                                                                       

                                        1991      1990
                                                                                                       

   REVENUE ($ billions)                $6.78     $6.57
   NET LOSS ($ millions)                $409       $39
   NET LOSS PER SHARE                  $5.40     $0.92
                                                                                                       

   MAJOR PRODUCT LINES:

   Semiconductors; defense electronics (radar systems, HARM
missiles, laser-guided weapons), and digital products
(minicomputers, notebook computers, printers, electronic
calculators, children's learning aids, software productivity
tools)
                                                                                                       

   MAJOR COMPETITORS:
                                                                                                       

   Texas Instruments competes with a broad range of
semiconductor manufacturers, defense contractors, computer
makers and consumer electronics concerns.