The Peekaboo Look
   Gets Cold Shoulder
   From Skating Union
   ---
   The `Katarina Rule' Makes
   Fashion Modesty a Must;
   Going for Gold in White
   ----
   By Teri Agins
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Then, U.S. hopeful Debi Thomas wore a bodystocking
splashed with beads for her "Carmen" routine. Eventual gold
medalist Katarina Witt, of East Germany, wore for her short
program a sky-blue costume cut high on the leg and adorned
with ostrich feathers. Some judges and coaches, according to
Olympic scuttlebutt, were not pleased with either fashion
statement. Nor did they cotton to the Liberace look of West
Germany's Heiko Fischer, who competed in the male singles
with red-sequinned "blood" droplets cascading down his chest.
   Following the Games, the skating union concluded that such
showy get-ups were undermining the athletic integrity of the
sport, and skaters weren't adhering to guidelines. So it came
up with a stricter code dictating that skating costumes must
be "modest, dignified" and not "theatrical in nature."
Outlawed are too much exposed flesh, "excessive decoration"
and "unitards," like the one worn by Ms. Thomas. Judges are
supposed to shave points of skaters who don't comply.
   Unofficially, the code is called the "Katarina rule." Her
sultry style evidently rankled the skating union. During a
skating show months before the 1988 Olympics, the voluptuous
Ms. Witt came out of a vigorous camel spin only to discover
that she had also popped out of her plunging neckline.
   "The competitions are not a girlie show," declares Ann
Gerli, a veteran skating judge who bristles when women
compete in costumes that "are cut so high on the leg that
they looked like they had outgrown their underpants."
Benjamin Wright, head of the technical committee of the
skating union, says also that too many loose sequins and
beads have fallen on the ice, endangering skaters. Costume
deductions have been made in several instances.
   Though judges say they wouldn't fail an outstanding skater
on costume infractions alone, the dress code has chilled some
trend setters. "I normally wear anything I can get away with,
because of the music and the routine," says Calla Urbanski,
who with Rocky Marval will skate to "Can Can" for the U.S. at
the Olympics. To be safe, she previewed her costume before
several judges. At one judge's behest, she cut her feather
headdress, only to have another comment that he liked the
longer plumes. She decided to leave them short.
   Paul Wylie, another top singles contender, has closed up
the V-neck of his shirt a few inches on the suggestion of his
coach, Mary Scotvold, who says, "We aren't taking any
chances."
   The hand-wringing over a few stars' spangled outfits seems
out of step in this year's Olympics, with its emphasis on
show value. The skating union dropped the compulsory figure
exercises, which used to account for a third of the total
score, because they are too boring for TV.
   Furthermore, the skating union now allows amateur skaters
to earn money in skating shows and for endorsements (Tonya
Harding for Texaco Inc.; Kristi Yamaguchi for Kellogg's
Special K).
   The result, says Jef Billings, a skating-costume designer,
is "a slicker amateur skater. . . . The kids now sign with
managers and choreographers; they have makeovers and do
anything to make them look more complete and more
professional." Gone are the days of Dorothy Hamill, who won
her Olympic gold in a simple skating dress whipped up on her
neighbor's sewing machine.
   In many cases, however, the most daring skaters in the
rink have also taken the boldest fashion strides. Three-time
Olympic gold medalist Sonja Henie of Norway raised eyebrows
in the late 1920s when she raised her skating dress from
ankle to knee, enabling her to execute the sit-spins and
other tricky moves that women typically didn't do then. With
the help of her furrier father, Ms. Henie made ermine and
mink-trimmed dresses her trademark -- no doubt to the delight
of little girls who collected her popular skating doll.
   Dick Button, the 1940s U.S. Olympic ice champ, says he
grew tired of wearing the then standard black suit and bow
tie. In his first world competition -- which he won -- he
dazzled the crowds by showing up in a short white jacket,
thus starting a new trend for men. "Skaters should be free to
express themselves in costumes and choreography in the
competitive arena," he says. "That's the way in which the
sport advances."
   But there's a fine line between expression and taste, and
some skaters have come across as sore sights on the ice. "In
1987, there must have been a sale on fluorescent pink fabric
in Russia," remarks Dale Mitch, an ice skating historian.
This year Russian skater Natalia Mishkutyonek will don a
layered chiffon skirt "that isn't the best thing to wear when
you have a wide backside," says Elena Voitsokovskaya, the
figure skating correspondent for Russia's Sport Express
newspaper.
   Costume designers try to create outfits -- costing between
$1,500 and $6,000 -- that flatter toned bodies and long legs
and are practical as well. Mr. Billings, who designs for the
Ice Capades and for amateurs, takes care to choose colors
that don't look too dark when they get wet. "Otherwise if a
skater falls on the ice," he explains, "that wet patch on
their behind is an eyesore that keeps reminding the judges
that they fell."
   Vera Wang, who designed Nancy Kerrigan's outfit, knows
first-hand the problems of design and fit: Before she opened
her bridal salon in New York, she was a competitive figure
skater. "The skirt is hardest to fit so that it will fall
right" and accommodate a skater's muscular thighs and hips,
she explains. Ms. Wang and a fitter watch critically while
Ms. Kerrigan spins around and kicks in all directions. The
skater is worried. "I feel like it's riding up," she says,
tugging at the costume.
   Ms. Kerrigan, 22, has made several visits to the salon to
work out the kinks. Like most skaters, she has worn the dress
on ice in advance, to get comfortable wearing it. "I really
love the white dress because it makes me look so different
and I stand out." She adds that she didn't love last year's
black beaded number.
   Despite the dress code, most insiders believe that amateur
skaters will keep pushing the fashion limits, just as they
keep trying to add one more axel to their program. "In order
to attract the TV attention and hype, the skaters won't stand
still," says Ms. Gerli, the judge. "They are going to get
more glitzy,"
   But when it comes to skating fashions -- be they tame or
tawdry -- it is impossible to score a perfect 6.0. After Ms.
Kerrigan competed in the U.S. Nationals championship in her
all-white costume, a New York Times sports columnist likened
the outfit to "the Bride of Frankenstein." At the same time,
Ms. Wang was deluged with letters from fans. One wrote: "Vera
Wang, your design {is} enchanting . . . GORGEOUS. Touche
Vera]]]]]"
   ---
   Staff reporter Neela Banerjee in Moscow contributed to
this article.