Marketing & Media:
   Maxwell Overseers
   Reach Compromise
   On U.S., U.K. Law
   ----
   By Peter Waldman
   Staff Reporter of the Wall Street Journal
The compromise must still be approved by U.S. bankruptcy
Judge Tina L. Brozman, who has scheduled a hearing tomorrow
in New York.
   The agreement appears aimed at satisfying the different
requirements of U.S. and British bankruptcy laws, while
appealing to MCC's banks. Those creditors have expressed
displeasure with MCC Chairman Peter Laister, who now appears
to have been removed from the management loop. Mr. Laister
initiated the company's bankruptcy filing in New York to take
advantage of Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code, which
shields a firm from creditors while management tries to
reorganize.
   In contrast, British bankruptcy law calls for the
appointment of an outside administrator, who generally places
greater emphasis on repaying debts than restructuring assets.
   Though Mr. Laister seems to have been left out of the
agreement, the inclusion of Mr. Shaffer ensures that at least
one existing MCC officer will help in the company's
restructuring, in deference to U.S. custom. Mr. Shaffer's
exact role in MCC's reorganization wasn't made clear at
Tuesday's court hearing, though Price Waterhouse's lawyer did
tell the judge that the MacMillan president, according to the
agreement, would be removable only with the consent of Mr.
Gitlin or Judge Brozman.
   The Price Waterhouse lawyer also outlined other terms of
the agreement, which lawyers at the hearing called
"unprecedented."
   -- Price Waterhouse and Mr. Gitlin would each be heard in
the U.S. and British courts.
   -- Mr. Gitlin would be empowered to examine MCC's assets
and liabilities and devise a reorganization scheme, but he
would defer to Price Waterhouse in matters that the firm has
already investigated. (Price Waterhouse has prepared a
lengthy report for MCC's banks on the company's $2.5 billion
of debts.)
   -- Price Waterhouse would be MCC's "ruling body," but Mr.
Gitlin or Judge Bozman will have veto power over most
liquidations, borrowings and corporate charges exceeding #25
million ($46.9 million).