Democratic Legislators Warn Regulators
   About Risk of Fueling Financial Crisis
   ----
   By Kevin G. Salwen
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
In a mid-December meeting in Baltimore, Treasury Secretary
Nicholas Brady told examiners that they can help promote
economic growth. While providing sharp oversight, he said,
regulators should make their standards clear to bankers, in
turn "inspir{ing} confidence among those who now shy away
from providing credit." Mr. Brady's message, intended to be
part of a White House jawboning plan to ease the credit
crunch, was echoed at the conference by banking regulators.
   Some congressional Democrats worry that the administration
is relaxing standards in an effort to jump-start the economy
in time for the November election. "The nation is paying
heavily for the poor judgments, the timid supervision and the
outright forbearance that contributed to the huge losses in
the collapse of the savings and loan industry in the 1980s,"
said Banking Committee Chairman Henry Gonzalez (D., Texas).
"To repeat those mistakes -- whatever the motive -- would be
a total abdication of public responsibility."
   In particular, several Democrats pointed to a new policy
allowing bankers who disagree with examiners' views to seek
review by top regulators in Washington. "You should do an
immediate aboutface and cancel this surreptitious appeals
process," Mr. Gonzalez told the regulators. Rep. Charles
Schumer (D., N.Y.) predicted that administration officials
will recognize they made a mistake by adopting the appeals
procedure and "they'll back off."
   But regulators were quick to dispute Mr. Gonzalez's views.
FDIC Chairman William Taylor said the December conference, as
well as policy statements issued earlier last year,
represented no policy change. "This is not a question of
forebearance or relaxing standards," he insisted. "I really
do not think the standards were changed at all."
   Federal Reserve Gov. John LaWare added that "examiners
should not assume routinely that current adverse conditions
will prevail forever or that weak or illiquid markets will
remain that way indefinitely."
   Messrs. Taylor and LaWare said the appeals process wasn't
any more than a slightly more formal way of allowing bankers
to complain up the line about examiners. "There will always
be an open telephone line to me if someone has a complaint,"
Mr. Taylor said.