Enterprise -- State and Local Spotlight:
   Entrepreneurs Losing Patience for Costly Legislation
   ---
   Influence of Recession Emerges
   In Annual Survey of Small Business
   ----
   By Timothy D. Schellhardt
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
In Connecticut, for example, 93% of small-business owners
this year think the small-business trade group should
actively support a constitutional cap on state spending. Last
year, just three of four owners favored such a limit. Arizona
owners this year oppose extending the state sales tax to
include various new items, like professional and business
services, by margins of between 73% and 94% depending on the
item; last year such sales-tax extensions in general were
opposed by just 62%.
   "There's no doubt that the recession has had an impact on
our members and their views," says Jim Weidman, manager of
state media relations for the small-business trade group. "A
lot of them are hurting, and when you're hurting, you get
your back up and say, `not an inch more' on issues that
affect their bottom line."
   In New York, for instance, where half of the small
businesses surveyed say they've laid off workers in the past
year, 72% "strongly agree" that the state's tax and
regulatory climate is hostile toward business. Half say they
have seriously considered or taken a look at moving their
business out of state in the past year.
   In many states, owners think tax increases will prove to
be devastating. Because of a recent tax increase in Maine,
half the owners surveyed there expect to raise prices, 59%
anticipate limiting pay increases and 37% foresee layoffs.
   On several common issues, small-business owners are in
broad agreement: Lawmakers must corral rising costs for
workers' compensation and health insurance, rebuff efforts to
mandate employee benefits such as parental leave, and pare
state spending before boosting taxes. In Wyoming, for
instance, 90% of owners favor cutting state spending while
84% oppose raising taxes to cover any revenue shortfall.
   Arkansas owners, by 82% to 14%, favor requiring a popular
vote to confirm or reject tax increases approved by the
General Assembly. And 86% of Oklahoma owners think both
legislative houses should have to clear tax increases by a
three-fourths majority or put them to a popular vote.
   Here is how business owners surveyed view key issues in
their states:
                                                                                                       

   Taxation
                                                                                                       

   Despite budget problems in most states, small business
owners adamantly want legislators to look elsewhere before
they boost taxes. In Georgia, 93% of owners urge the General
Assembly to cut the state's budget before raising taxes.
Given a probable budget shortfall, 97% of Delaware owners
oppose a pay raise for public employees this year.
   Florida owners, by 84% to 6%, oppose a proposed
value-added tax to replace five business taxes. Maryland
owners, by 2 to 1, reject raising the retail sales tax to 6%
from 5% even for just a year.
   In New York, anti-tax feeling is so strong that 61% of
owners say they're considering relocating to another state
when they retire because of the state's current estate-tax
structure. Surprisingly, despite paying the highest gasoline
tax in the nation, North Dakota owners reject a
three-cent-a-gallon gas tax rise for highway work by only 53%
to 41%.
                                                                                                       

   Environment
                                                                                                       

   Lawsuits and the cost of complying with mandated
environmental changes worry small-business owners. By 2 to 1,
Delaware owners favor creating a fund to provide low-interest
loans to help small businesses meet environmental
requirements. Utah owners narrowly favor a small-business
assistance program and advisory panel for the new federal
Clean Air Act. Wyoming owners, though, are almost evenly
divided on those issues. And Kansas owners are divided over
tax credits to businesses that establish recycling programs.
   New Mexico owners, by 81% to 10%, oppose legislation to
allow private citizens to bring lawsuits when they believe
environmental laws are being broken. In North Dakota, owners
by 57% to 31% oppose allowing hazardous waste sites in the
state.
                                                                                                       

   General Business
                                                                                                       

   An array of business issues has surfaced in various
states. Owners in California, New Hampshire, Maine, Rhode
Island and Virginia overwhelmingly favor a law that would let
a merchant sue shoplifters for damages triple the retail
value of goods taken. Hawaii and Illinois owners strongly
oppose legislation to tightly regulate videodisplay
terminals, viewed as a possible health hazard.
   South Carolina owners want the state to issue business
licenses every two years, not annually. By 49% to 33%,
Virginia owners think state political action committees
should be banned; they feel PACs give special interests too
much clout.
                                                                                                       

   Labor
                                                                                                       

   Some fresh labor issues are heating up on the state level.
For instance, small-business owners in eight Western states,
by 3 to 1, oppose legislation to bar employers from
discriminating against smokers. And owners in Arkansas,
California, Hawaii, Montana, New Mexico and Oregon
over-whelmingly reject prohibiting employers from hiring
permanent replacement workers in labor disputes. Meanwhile,
in Minnesota -- the only state with such a strike-breaker law
-- 84% of owners think the law should be repealed.
   By 3 to 1, New York owners think employers should be
allowed to fire employees at any time, for any given reason,
but that they shouldn't be permitted to set rules to limit
the legal activities of their employees during non-working
hours.
                                                                                                       

   Education
                                                                                                       

   Small-business owners increasingly are interested in
education issues, noting that the preparedness of their
future work forces are at stake. Owners in Illinois,
Maryland, Tennessee and New Mexico favor allowing parents to
choose which school their child attends, but owners in South
Dakota and Montana dislike that controversial "schools of
choice" idea.
   Kansas owners reject, by 63% to 28%, requiring school
districts to give students a "warranty" on their education,
but Alaska owners strongly agree that a basic workplace
curriculum should be included in the state's definition of
"basic education."
   ---
   What Ails Them?
                                                                                                       

   How small-business owners rank the issues affected by
state government policies that cause them the greatest
concern.
                                                                                                       

   1  Workers' compensation costs
   2  Health insurance costs
   3  State taxes
   4  State regulations
   5  Liability insurance costs
   6  Local taxes
   7  Jobless insurance costs
   8  Mandated employee benefits
                                                                                                       

   Source: Analysis of National Federation of Independent
Business survey of small-business owners in seven states:
Alaska, Connecticut, Maine, Missouri, Oklahoma, Rhode Island
and West Virginia.