Corporate Focus:
   Pacific Enterprises Faces Ocean of Diversification Woes
   ---
   Charges and Auctions Mark End of Era
   With Utility's Future Uncertain
   ----
   By Frederick Rose
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
What was once simply the nation's largest gas distribution
company (and still is) grew grandly, changing its name,
buying properties at inflated prices, and moving into
luxurious headquarters with a burgeoning art collection and
hand-crafted chairs in the boardroom costing thousands of
dollars each.
   This week, the grand design collapsed in grand style.
   Pacific Enterprises threw in the towel on diversification,
announcing plans to sell most of its non-utility assets and
hinting strongly that the rest could also go. It eliminated
its dividend and racked up $250 million in one-time charges,
the latest of several write-downs on non-utility properties.
   Some of the company's antique furniture has been sold at
auction. And much of the corporate art collection, acquired
at a reported cost of $3 million, is up for sale.
   But, like a troubled victim just out the doctor's door
with an uncertain prognosis, Pacific Enterprises still faces
a precarious future, analysts say. "I think the company is
making the right move," says Ronald J. Barone, an analyst at
Kidder, Peabody  Co. "But we have a very, very sick patient
here, and it's going to be a long time in recovery."
   Investors are taking a similar view. In the two trading
days after the company's latest announcements, the stock has
shed about 25% of its value; it was quoted at $18.75 a share,
down 12.5 cents, in late New York Stock Exchange trading
yesterday.
   Plans call now for Pacific Enterprises to focus on its
Southern California Gas Co. unit. The division is considered
one of the nation's most attractive and profitable, with a
domain that covers much of California's residential and
industrial heartland. But profits from the gas company mostly
have just offset the losses of diversification operations
that were supposed to carry the company into the 21st
century.
   Up for sale now are the loss-ridden Pacific Enterprises
Oil Co. unit and five retailing chains that are estimated to
account for about one-third of Pacific Enterprises' $3.3
billion in retailing revenue last year and roughly $35
million in pretax profits.
   Pacific Enterprises will keep for the time being its big
Thrifty Drug Store operations, which are thought to account
for about two-thirds of the retail revenue and to have
produced losses of about $120 million last year, before taxes
and interest charges. But the company is hinting broadly that
Thrifty Drug will one day be shed.
   Willis B. Wood Jr., Pacific Enterprises' president and
chief executive officer, says the company wants to
concentrate on Southern California Gas Co. and a few related
operations.
   But analysts and industry observers have considerable
doubts whether the plans can be carried out as suggested.
Leading the list of worries is whether a market inundated
with oil and gas properties will readily produce a buyer
willing to pay an attractive price. The same goes for the
retail operations, a hodgepodge of sporting-goods outlets,
membership discount stores, and drugstores all suffering from
recession-related ills.
   There's also a major question whether Pacific
Enterprises's $250 million in one-time charges has adequately
accounted for the prospective losses on the operations going
on the block, let alone any losses on the Thrifty Drug
operations, should those be sold. Indeed, Pacific Enterprises
cautioned that further charges could be required. Mr. Wood
says the $132 million write-down applied to the oil and gas
properties is only the charge that is required by the
company's "full cost" accounting, not an effort to set the
properties to prevailing market prices.
   As well, the $110 million "provision for loss on the sale
of retail operations" is simply the good will added to the
books when these operations were purchased again, not an
attempt to approximate an estimated market price. Good will
is the accounting recognition of a premium paid above book
value.
   "I believe that there are more writedowns to come -- maybe
several hundred million dollars' worth," says David
Fleischer, an analyst at Prudential Securities.
   Should they actually occur, such charges could prove
painful to a balance sheet already weakened by past
writedowns. Although consolidated accounts for Pacific
Enterprises showed a strong $1.91 billion of shareholders
equity at Sept. 30, nearly three-quarters of that, or about
$1.35 billion, represents Southern California Gas. State
regulators have served notice that they will guard against
any encroachment on the gas company's capital.
   Nothing prepared outsiders for the extraordinary turn that
the then-Pacific Lighting Corp. took in May 1986 with the
purchase of Thrifty. "This was not a venture in which we just
woke up one morning and said, `Let's go out and buy a
drugstore chain,' " says Mr. Wood. But it looked that way.
   The company's forays into pistachio groves, oil, and
leasing paled beside the $800 million purchase of the
retailing chain. In a single stroke, shares outstanding
swelled 40%. And the retailing investment was compounded two
years later with the purchase of the outlets of troubled
Pay'n Save Inc. for $232 million in stock.
   Spending on oil and gas also grew with purchases of
producing properties and hefty exploration outlays. So
anxious was Pacific Enterprises to buy in that it plunked
down $339 million for Sabine Corp. in 1988 -- $60 million
more than the next highest bidder.
   Much of this was propelled not only by Mr. Miller, but by
James R. Ukropina, a lawyer with the company's outside firm,
brought in as general counsel in 1984, and named president
two years later. Mr. Ukropina resigned suddenly in December,
blaming health problems.
   Pacific Enterprises' major task now is to reverse losses
in the Thrifty chain, where management has churned and where
competition in California's depressed economy is stiff. In
the latest of many strategy changes, the chain is renovating
roughly half of its 617 outlets this year, at a total cost of
about $25 million; boosting its marketing; and overhauling
its inventory procedures, says William E. Yingling, chairman
and chief executive of the unit.
   ---
            Pacific Enterprises by the Numbers
                                                                                                       

                     The Fundamentals

                                     1990       1989
                                                                                                       

   Sales ($ bil.)                      $6.60      $6.92
   Net Loss ($ mil.)                 ($88.0)    ($59.0)
   Loss Per Share                    ($1.45)    ($1.09)
                                                                                                       

   Major Product Lines:
                                                                                                       

   Natural Gas distribution, drug and discount retailing and
sports retailing, oil and gas exploration and production.
                                                                                                       

   Major Competitors:
                                                                                                       

   Gas distribution business: none Drug and discount
retialing: many, including Longs Drug Stores Corp., Sav-on
outlets of American Stores Co., Vons Cos. Oil  Gas
production: many, including all major integrated oil
companies and independent oil companies.