Out of the Bamboo Gulag
I was kept in captivity in three different places. To put
it very simply, I was basically under solitary confinement or
confined in isolation. Even though there was not much
physical torture, the psychological torture was even harsher.
If one's will is not strong enough, it could lead to total
collapse.
   There were three other activists who started their prison
terms roughly at the same time with mine, namely Wong Zhichi,
Ho Kou and Cheng Yau-ng. They all showed signs of deep
depression and were hot-tempered from time to time. There
were two other Hong Kong citizens, Lai Pui-shing and Lee
Lung-hing, who were arrested in 1989 after the June 4
incident, and they also were depressed and their morale was
very low. The last two did not read, did not take exercise,
their mental state was very unstable and I fear that they
cannot cope with the stress until their terms end.
   For me, the most difficult time was when I was put into a
dark cell. This happened twice. The first time occurred
during the first year when I was in the Mei County Prison.
All prisoners were required to submit a year-end report. I
refused to make a statement to the effect that I pleaded
guilty to my so-called crimes and would accept ideological
reform. I was put into a dark cell for 20 days.
   The second time occurred when I gave the prosecutor's
indictment to my parents to bring back to Hong Kong. I was
put into a dark cell for one month. It was only because I was
to be transferred to another prison that my days in the dark
cell came to an end.
   When I was in the dark cell, I was chained at the feet.
There was nothing to do, nothing to read. At times, nobody
came for 24 hours on end. The dark cell is a single-story
building with a small hole at the ceiling for the wardens to
keep an eye on me. The light that passed through the hole let
me differentiate between day and night. I kept on counting
the days but things got very muddled very soon. I tried to
paste rice grains on the wall to help the counting but there
were days when I could not remember whether I had pasted a
rice grain on the wall or not.
   During the period when I was confined in isolation, there
was one prisoner, known as the "labor-reform leader," to
supervise me. Actually, his duty was to follow me everywhere,
making sure that I could not communicate with anyone. That
"leader" was imprisoned for raping a small girl, and so his
mental state was not like that of a normal person.
Nevertheless, he got his prison term shortened by one year
for his special duty. He always shouted at me and ordered me
as he wished. He had more power than the prison wardens. He
was released from the control of the work brigade, reporting
directly and solely to the highest official in the prison.
The supervision by this very special prisoner was really
great harassment.
   The Chinese prison is really like hell on earth. Human
dignity is completely downtrodden. There is not even an iota
of human rights and human dignity in the whole system. I
think my treatment was not among the worst simply because I
am a citizen of Hong Kong and that the campaign for my
release had made my name known world-wide. So they were much
more careful when dealing with me. Likewise, the more
well-known democracy activists also were not physically
tortured.
   Taking my experience as an example, one can say that the
support from overseas is very important. If the pressure from
the outside is great, its effects on the Chinese government
are proportionally greater. Therefore, I appeal to all the
people who support the democracy movement in China never to
abandon us. Without outside support and concern, the lives of
the activists would be even worse.
   When I was arrested 10 years ago, I was considered to be a
radical Trotskyite. During my imprisonment, I had the
opportunity to read a number of Marxist-Leninist classics,
like "Das Kapital." This enabled me to have a more in-depth
understanding of Marxism and it helped me a lot in
understanding China. I think I am more of an orthodox Marxist
now.
   The Chinese Communist Party is an offshoot of Stalinism.
China is not a socialist country. What Marx said is true;
socialism should grow out of a developed capitalist country.
The Chinese economy is backward, its productivity is low and
the whole country was so poor before liberation that it was
predestined to move onto the road of bureaucratic
dictatorship. The unrest and political struggles after
liberation merely show that Stalinism cannot save China. It
likewise cannot save the Chinese Communist Party. The June 4
massacre really made the CCP crumble on all fronts.
   Since the people have discarded Stalinism, it is no wonder
they have illusions about capitalism. The Communist Party
wants to save itself. The bureaucrats also have to look after
their own interest. So they think that the capitalist road is
the only exit for them. At present, I believe that capitalism
won't save China and it is not the future for China.
   I find that Hong Kong has made great progress politically.
Many people are now concerned with politics, realizing that
Hong Kong's political future is really inseparable from
China's political future.
   Hong Kong still has its freedoms and this should provide
good soil for political development and political activities.
My personal future development will also be on the same
route. It is my wish to be an independent leftist, conduct
mass-based activities, and fight for all political prisoners
in China.