The Modern Okies:
   Industrial Migrants
   Scour U.S. For Work,
   With Dwindling Luck
   ---
   Jackie Vanya, a Steelworker,
   Uproots Family 4 Times,
   Ends Up Home and Broke
   ---
   Why He Shot Diablo the Dog
   ----
   By Dana Milbank
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
But the worst moment came a year ago, in Milton, Pa. Mr.
Vanya couldn't find space for his dog Diablo on his trip back
home to Houston. So he dug a hole in the back yard, called
Diablo for the last time, and shot him.
   The odyssey has taken its toll. The 43-year-old former
star fullback on his high-school football team -- nicknamed
"Bear" because of his ferocious play -- is once again
unemployed. He has endured a heart attack and wears a
nitroglycerin capsule around his neck. His wife has wrestled
with a drinking problem.
   The family lives here in his father's home these days,
collecting food stamps and wondering what's next. "Each time
you move it seems like something for the better," he says,
"and each time it ends in disaster."
   That is the lament of today's industrial migrants --
displaced workers who travel the country in search of work.
Over 1.3 million unemployed pulled up stakes in the 1980s,
according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics. Many were part
of a broader exodus leaving depressed economies in Michigan,
Ohio and Pennsylvania. But increasingly, the migrants come
from the ranks of white-collar and service workers.
   While often reluctant to move, the new migrants see little
alternative: Many job losers who refuse to leave home wind up
in minimum-wage, part-time jobs, or seeking relief on welfare
rolls or even in homeless shelters. They have become "a lost
generation" without any solutions, says Carrie Leana, a
professor at the University of Pittsburgh's business school
who has studied unemployed steelworkers.
   Migrants do better economically. Of people who lost jobs
between 1985 and 1990, 87% of migrants found new jobs; only
70% of non-movers did, according to the Bureau of Labor
Statistics. "A guy who goes where the jobs are may not make
as much money as he once did, but at least he's working. And
work does something for people," says Joseph C. Anderson, who
runs the United Steelworkers' re-employment office in
Houston.
   Something, but not necessarily enough. A continuing Boston
College study of a General Motors Corp. plant in Fort Wayne,
Ind., where most of the 2,900 workers had earlier lost their
jobs at other GM plants, has found fierce resentment among
migrants. Many must settle for lesser jobs or shifts than
they worked before. Their presence has fueled such antagonism
within the local union and among natives that researcher Russ
Eckel, who is conducting the Boston College study, contends
migrancy is the chief cause of the plant's problems. The
movers also have higher rates of drug and alcohol abuse and
divorce than other auto workers.
   A GM spokeswoman says the Fort Wayne plant has one of the
best quality records in the company's truck and bus group,
and that its "management-union relationship is very good."
   But Mr. Eckel says: "The experience of migrants is
antithetical to building a new, trusting labor-relations
system that everyone says we need to be competitive. People
are much more disaffected and alienated, and they are much
less willing to make a commitment to a particular plant,
community and corporation."
   Mr. Vanya never expected to be a migrant. He was born on
Houston's east side in 1948, the grandson of a refinery
worker and son of an Armco Inc. steelworker. The oldest of
five boys, Jackie helped his dad, the local union president,
organize mills on weekends, earning a nickel for each
pamphlet he handed out. After two years of junior college and
two years playing semipro football with the Tulsa
Thunderbirds while working in a sporting-goods store, he
returned to Houston as an apartment manager.
   Soon, with his father's help, he landed a coveted job as a
janitor in Armco's No. 1 melt shop, where scrap steel was
turned to molten metal at temperatures higher than 3,100
degrees. Melt-shop work paid best, and Mr. Vanya early on
resolved to become a melter himself. But it was also the
toughest and most dangerous work in the mill: Over the years,
Mr. Vanya has been scarred by stray drops of molten steel and
once lost a friend who fell into a vat of the fiery liquid.
   Back then, in 1973, Mr. Vanya was confident that the
plant, which employed 6,000, would sustain him for a
lifetime. The plant stretched for six miles along the Port of
Houston and was an entire community. Houses were built side
by side, down the street from the fancier homes of managers.
Workers prospered and had their own shooting range, bowling
leagues and softball teams.
   But Armco's own prosperity was waning. Orders began
falling, and the company didn't have the expensive new
pollution controls that would soon be required. So in
November 1975, when it came time for the yearly furlough, Mr.
Vanya was told he wouldn't be called back. He found temporary
work on the graveyard shift at a local tool company, but that
job, too, disappeared in February 1976.
   He resolved to leave Houston to support his growing
family. His two boys, ages seven and five, had been joined by
two more children, ages four and two, who he adopted when he
married a local woman, Paula. "There was always another job
up the road, and I was young," recalls Mr. Vanya. "When
you're young, you think you can lick the world."
   He had little trouble finding a new job 90 miles up the
road in Beaumont, Texas, at Korf Industries' Georgetown Texas
Steel wire mill. His family was homesick and lived in a
trailer park at first, but soon made new friends -- and Mr.
Vanya made money. He became a first-line supervisor in the
melt shop and earned up to $34,000 a year.
   But this didn't last, either. Mr. Vanya lost his job in a
management cutback in 1981. And the job scene in Texas had
become bleak, with local mills hurting and migrants from the
North pouring in. An ad in the Houston Chronicle for jobs at
Soule Steel Co. in Carson, Calif., offered a way out, and Mr.
Vanya took it.
   As in his first move, Mr. Vanya was able to find higher
pay at his new job, earning up to $44,000 as a foreman. Soule
was touted as a secure mill, a "showcase" stocked with new
Japanese equipment that made bar for construction. Mrs. Vanya
looked forward to days on the beach, and the children would
learn to ride skateboards.
   But the move proved more difficult than the first. Their
infant, J.R., got sick on the drive to California, and they
were stranded in the Texas plains outside Fort Stockton when
the engine in the '76 Monte Carlo died. The 26-hour trip took
a week. Mr. Vanya began work at Soule late and $2,000 in
debt. "Every time you move you start new," he says. "You're
living from check to check and you don't get a chance to
build something for the future."
   Once in California, their former $250-a-month rent in
Beaumont became $600, and Mr. Vanya found his higher pay
quickly disappearing. Mrs. Vanya, who had never ventured
farther than Louisiana before, grew unhappy when she realized
they could only afford to visit family members in Texas every
two years.
   Worse, after he finally settled in, Mr. Vanya's "showcase"
employer fell on tough times. In May 1985, five years after
he arrived, the company said it would liquidate the plant
immediately.
   Mr. Vanya called friends and sent his resumes everywhere.
This time, nothing surfaced at first. He and his wife took
minimum-wage jobs operating printing presses. He did yardwork
with the boys, $25 a lawn. He tried painting houses. Finally,
a friend called with a tip: There was an opening for a melt
shop foreman. Problem is, he would have to take a $4,000 pay
cut -- and the mill was 3,000 miles away, in tiny Milton, Pa.
   When the '76 Monte Carlo turned east, only three Vanya
children climbed aboard. Two others, his 17- and 15-year-old
sons, had decided not to come along and moved in with their
mother's father in Oklahoma. In Pennsylvania, the Vanyas
began to feel the full weight of migrancy. Mr. Vanya crashed
his car three times in the unfamiliar snow that winter, and
finally had to buy a new van.
   The couple grew increasingly homesick. They would drive 35
miles for okra, or a box of grits. They didn't make many
friends, and rarely left home. "After you move, you harden at
each place," Mr. Vanya says. "You don't want to get too
attached, because saying goodbye gets more emotional."
   Their son, Sean, had to repeat a year in high school and
was sullen at home. Mrs. Vanya stopped taking care of the
house and the bills, and her husband soon discovered the
liquor bottles she had stashed in the basement. "I couldn't
face getting up every day," she recalls. They considered
divorce. Mr. Vanya applied for other jobs in New Jersey and
Virginia, and was offered a position in Illinois. But he
withdrew. "It wasn't going to get me any closer to Texas," he
says.
   The stress began to show at work. Cargill Inc.'s North
Star Steel had bought the plant, which had begun to struggle,
and Mr. Vanya, anxious about keeping his job, worked
constantly. In return, he faced resentment. More than one
worker told him, "If you did it so good at your last plant,
how come it liquidated?"
   Mr. Vanya, like the other migrants, became afraid to
suggest changes and had trouble winning co-workers' respect.
"You could see the tension in {the migrants}," says a former
melt shop supervisor, himself a migrant from Ohio, Pittsburgh
and South Carolina. "They were tougher on their people, and
they were always looking over their shoulders."
   In September 1987, Mr. Vanya began fainting on the job. A
doctor figured it was stress. Mr. Vanya was in the parking
lot of a hospital, heading in to see the doctor again about
the fainting, when he had his heart attack that winter.
   Within a month, though, Mr. Vanya was back working at the
mill; his insurance had run out and, in any event, the
company needed his help during a labor dispute. "You could
tell Jackie was pushing himself too hard and he was very high
strung," says the former supervisor. But the plant's losses
began to grow, and by the time the recession arrived in 1990,
it seemed doomed. The all-too-familiar day came on Feb. 24,
1991. Mr. Vanya says he was told that the plant would be
closed by noon, and that he wouldn't get severance pay.
   More desperate than ever, Mr. Vanya found temporary work
as a forklift operator for $5.50 an hour. Mrs. Vanya's
part-time day-care work couldn't make up the difference, and
by the fall, the couple had no choice but to return to Texas.
With no company to pay for the move, they left their
belongings with their daughter, who decided to stay in
Pennsylvania.
   Still, there was no way to take Diablo along. A stray that
used to run around outside the mill, he was in bad shape when
Mr. Vanya took him in and nursed him back to health. When it
was time to go, though, the dog was too wild to let loose or
give to a friend. The pound would have killed him anyway, Mr.
Vanya reasoned. So he shot him. "It's the saddest thing I had
happen to me," he says.
   Thirty family members came for a reunion on Lake Houston
on their first day back. But the community they had yearned
for had changed. These days, the wind blows dust past the
mostly deserted mill onto an equally empty Industrial Road.
Theaters, bowling alleys and skating rinks have closed. The
Armco plant closed for good in 1982. One former steelworker
delivers flowers; another fills bags at the grocery store.
   For the first time, the Vanya family relies on food
stamps, and Medicaid for his heart medicine. Mrs. Vanya uses
the food stamps; Mr. Vanya is too ashamed to shop with them.
He closed his retirement account to pay for the trip down,
and he is $7,000 in debt and two months behind on payments
for his van.
   But he isn't quitting. "I could just cry in my beer, but I
won't do it because I have pride," Mr. Vanya says. "I'd
rather put up a fight. I want to set an example for my
children." The options, though, have become thin. He's called
and written steel mills throughout the country, but most
aren't hiring, and those that are want younger managers with
business degrees.
   He would like to settle in Houston, where he has applied
to local refineries and paper companies, and has looked into
managing local stores, without success so far. He is working
odd jobs and may move the family into a trailer. "This is
where I was born and raised, and this is where I want to
stay," Mr. Vanya says. But he knows better. "If somebody
calls up and says, `I've got a job for $35,000 or $40,000,'
I'll go. I've got to take care of my family."
   And, luckily for this migrant, his family takes care of
him. "I wish we could have all these years back," Mrs. Vanya
says, sitting in their borrowed kitchen, a Marlboro in one
hand and her husband's hand in the other. "But I'm with him.
If we have to go, we will."