LAB NOTES
   ----
   By Jerry E. Bishop
                                                                                                       

  labnotes boric acid
Cholesterol watchers may not have to worry so much about
eating beef and chocolate.
   For years, beef fat and cocoa butter have been ranked with
dairy butter among the dietary no-nos for people whose blood
cholesterol levels render them prone to coronary heart
disease. The fats are high in saturated fatty acids, which
tend to raise blood cholesterol levels.
   Four years ago, however, nutrition scientists at the
University of Texas in Dallas fed volunteers synthetic
versions of fatty acids and found that one, stearic acid,
doesn't raise cholesterol levels. They suggested stearic acid
could be used to make a more buttery margarine that
cholesterol-conscious consumers could use without guilt.
   Now a follow-up experiment with natural fats bolsters the
earlier finding with the synthetic fats. Texas researchers
Margo A. Denke and Scott M. Grundy got 10 middle-aged men
with cholesterol problems to go on a liquid diet in which 40%
of the calories came from fats, typical of the American diet.
The men tested four diets, each with a different natural fat.
   The men's average cholesterol levels were highest when
their diet was based on butterfat, which is high in total
saturated fat (25% of calories) but low in stearic acid (4%
of calories). With beef tallow, which is lower in total
saturated fat (19%) but richer in stearic acid (7.6%), the
average cholesterol levels were slightly lower than with
butterfat. Cholesterol levels were even lower when the men
ate a diet built around cocoa butter, which is the richest of
the four fats in stearic acid (13%). The lowest cholesterol
levels occurred when the fat was olive oil, which is
extremely low in all saturated fatty acids, including stearic
acid.
   Because saturated fats rich in stearic acid have less
effect on blood cholesterol levels, it's all right for
cholesterol watchers to enjoy lean red meat, but not fatty
meat, and an occasional chocolate treat, the researchers
conclude.
                                                                                                       

   Sapphire Fibers Monitor
   Engine Heat and Strains
                                                                                                       

   Threads of sapphire may be buried in tomorrow's auto and
jet engines.
   Man-made sapphire fibers about the thickness of a human
hair are already used to reinforce metal and glass parts. The
glass plate over the machine that reads bar codes at the
supermarket checkout counter is reinforced with the nearly
invisible sapphire fibers, for instance.
   Recently, engineers at Virginia Polytechnic Institute in
Blacksburg developed a way to use the sapphire fibers to
monitor temperatures, pressures and strains in superhot
environments such as jet engines, power plants and cermic
engines that might power autos of the future. The fibers can
withstand temperatures of as much as 2,000 degrees Celsius,
more than twice the temperature at which conventional optical
fibers would melt, say Kent Murphy and Richard Claus of
Virginia Tech's Fiber and Electro-Optics Research Center.
   The pair has patented sensors in which laser beams are
piped through the sapphire fibers. The sensors measure minute
changes in the light waves caused by shifts in temperatures
and pressures, and by strains in surrounding materials.
   In a jet engine, the sapphire sensors, by detecting
changes in sound-wave pressures, could warn the pilot that
the engine is on the verge of shutting down, Mr. Murphy says.
In an auto engine, feed-back from the sensors could
automatically change the fuel mixture to keep the engine
operating at its most efficient temperature and pressure, he
suggests.
                                                                                                       

   Boric Acid Holds Promise
   As a Cheap Lubricant
                                                                                                       

   Tough but cheap machine lubricants may be sitting in the
medicine cabinet.
   The lubricants would be made of boric acid, long used
around the house as an antiseptic and cockroach killer, and
by industry for making cement and glass, as well as for
soaking candle wicks.
   Boric acid's lubricating properties were discoverd
serendipitously by Ali Erdemir at Argonne National Laboratory
near Chicago. Dr. Erdemir, who calls himself a tribologist,
or friction expert, says he was investigating the use of
boric oxide, a white crystalline powder, as a possible
high-temperature lubricant. He noticed, however, that boric
oxide became slippery at room temperature. He found that the
boric oxide was absorbing water from the air to become boric
acid.
   It turns out that when powdered boric acid is spread over
machine parts, it forms layers that are only loosely bonded
together and thus easily slip past each other. The atoms of
each layer, however, are strongly bonded and resist breaking
apart. The result is a lubricant that is slipperier than
other dry lubricants and tougher and longer-lasting than
graphite. One drawback: it might dissolve in the rain.
   The discovery, itself, isn't patentable but some of its
applications are, Dr. Erdemir says. "There's been a
tremendous interest from industry, and we're working with a
number of companies on special applications."
                                                                                                       

   Odds and Ends
                                                                                                       

   Genetic fingerprinting of bulls is developed by University
of Wisconsin researchers to help dairy-cow breeders pick
sires that have inherited the genes for high milk production.
. . . Parrot ranches are proposed by Yale University
ecologist Steven R. Beissinger to preserve dozens of species
threatened by skyrocketing trade in the birds. . . . A
consortium's plan to begin making a "digital map of the
universe," which will show the location of one million
galaxes and 100,000 quasars, gets an initial $3 million grant
from the Alfred P. Sloan Foundation.