Heard on the Street:
   Street Seeks the Winners as IPO Fever Spreads
   To Thrifts, Including One in Class of '88 Rescue
   ----
   By Todd Mason
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
So eager is the Street for new thrift investment plays
that a few professional investors are depositing $50 in
likely conversion candidates, knowing that savers will get
first crack at the stock. Coastal's planned IPO, if it
succeeds, could inspire other coming-out parties for the
so-called Class of '88-thrift rescues created by the
government's Southwest Plan bailout.
   "The market is very good right now for savings-and-loan
and bank stocks," says Coastal Chairman Manuel J. Mehos.
   Investors even are salivating over Ronald Perelman's $8.8
billion First Gibraltar Bank; some think he ended its
lucrative government-aid pact as a prelude to an IPO. Also
widely expected is an IPO of Robert M. Bass's American
Savings Bank in California. Neither financier would comment.
   The late 1980s thrift bust wiped out 700 institutions. But
now many thrifts have a story to tell; 1991 was the
industry's first profitable year since 1986. The year brought
a rush of mortgage-refinancing fees and a slump in interest
rates, which enabled thrifts to borrow for months at 4% and
lend for years at 8%. Yet borrowing short and lending long is
precisely where the thrift crisis began 13 years ago when
short-term rates surged, turning mortgage portfolios into
millstones.
   There's also a long-term threat: Sears, Roebuck, General
Motors Acceptance, Citicorp and other giants are nibbling
away at thrifts' business. "The future of thrifts as a
specialized home lender is not very good," says Reid Nagle,
president of SNL Securities, L.P., a Charlottesville, Va.,
research firm specializing in bank and thrift stocks. Bad
loans still lurk in some thrift portfolios. "The toughest
thing for the market to get its arms around is asset
quality," says Clay G. Lebhar, a Prudential Securities
managing director.
   To overcome such risks, underwriters are pricing new
thrift issues attractively. When Bell Bancorp, a $2.1 billion
Chicago thrift, converted to stock ownership Dec. 17, its $25
price was seven times projected earnings and 54% of book
value -- a bargain even compared with other thrifts trading
at an average 10 times earnings and 62% of book, says SNL.
Bell now trades at 30 7/8. N.S. Bancorp of Chicago has
spurted to 19 7/8 since going public at $8 in late 1990.
   Cragin Financial, another Chicago thrift, trades at 21, up
from June's offering at $10.
   Conversion fever will bring riskier offerings, says Louis
Paar, senior vice president of underwriter Adams Cohen
Securities. "Most, but not all, of the thrift IPOs have been
the healthier, quality institutions." Safety, not price, will
be Coastal Banc's selling point. Mr. Mehos hopes the shares
fetch book value of $12.08 or more. The thrift was cleansed
of bad debts in the 1988 rescue; nonperforming loans are a
miniscule 0.33% of its portfolio.
   One risk is Coastal's government-aid agreement, now
guaranteeing a cushy 8% return on $184.4 million in troubled
assets. Criticism of the Southwest Plan's generosity could
lead to a government buy-out of the accord. Coastal would get
a pile of cash, but probably couldn't earn an equivalent
yield today. Also missing at the $1 billion Coastal is a
strong retail banking base, rivals assert. Coastal says it
will use its proceeds to buy up rivals' branch offices and
build market share.
   "My theory is that the majority of thrifts will be
acquired by banks," says Michael Sammon, a senior vice
president of regional brokers Chicago Corp. He has been
buying thrift stocks to put into unit trusts for investors,
paying market prices of about 70% of book value in hopes
acquirers will offer 125%. Right now he likes Cragin, Deer
Bank of Deerfield, Ill. (a Chicago suburb), and First Federal
Capital Corp. of LaCrosse, Wis.
   SNL studied 75 conversions in 1987; as a group they show a
modest, five-year appreciation of 31.6%. But nine are down
50% or more, and another nine are history, victims of the
real-estate bust now gripping the East Coast.
   ---
                   Tempting If Converted
                                                                                                       

   Here are 10 healthy thrifts that could be attractive plays
if they decide to convert to stock ownership.
                                                                                                       

                                                ASSETS
 INSTITUTION                 LOCATION        (in billions)
                                                                                                       

 Albany Svgs. Bk.*          Albany, N.Y.         $2.14
 Capitol Federal            Topeka, Kan.          3.54
 Financial Federal Savings  Olympia Fields, Ill.  1.01
 Great Financial Federal    Louisville, Ky.       1.18
 Harris Svgs.               Harrisburg, Pa.       1.02
 Mutual Svgs. Bk.           Milwaukee             1.18
 Pomona 1st Fed.            Calif.                1.44
 Security Bank              Milwaukee             2.16
 Standard Fed.              Chicago               1.34
 Third Federal              Cleveland             3.13
                                                                                                       

   *Conversion already pending
   Source: SNL Securities L.P.