IPOs Continue to Explode
   But Fireworks Are Fading
   ----
   By Anne Newman
   Staff Reporter of the Wall Street Journal
"People got burned a bit, and that put a dose of sanity
into the market," says Tony Ehinger, head of the equity
syndicate at First Boston Corp. "People were no longer
guaranteed a 20% upside, and that took some players out of
the market."
   Despite less frenzy surrounding IPO offerings, investors'
appetite for new stock is still healthy. More than 120
companies have raised $7.4 billion from initial stock sales
since Jan. 1, according to IDD Information Services Inc. At
this rate, first-quarter IPO sales are expected to be a
record. If the pace continues, this year could well shatter
the record $18.3 billion raised by IPOs in 1986, as well as
last year's near-record $16.4 billion.
   And with 162 companies in the pipeline hoping to raise
more than $9.7 billion in IPOs, sellers and buyers alike
don't expect a big slowdown in offerings -- unless the
broader stock market falls sharply.
   Overwhelmed by the flood of offerings, however, large
investors are becoming much more finicky about investing in
IPOs. One reason is that biotechnology and health-care
stocks, the hottest part of the IPO market last year, have
taken a licking this year. Some investors feel they can do
well by buying the fallen shares of already public companies.
   Demand for IPOs has cooled enough that on Tuesday,
debt-laden AmeriServ Food Co. of Dallas postponed its IPO
rather than than accept an anemic price. "We're in no hurry,"
AmeriServ chief financial officer Monty Standifer says.
"There's just so many offerings out there, it's difficult to
get quality people to focus on individual companies."
   Another debt-laden concern, Valassis Communications Inc.,
last week was forced to lower the price of its 22.1
million-share offering to $17 each from a hoped-for $21.50,
paring the proceeds it raised to $375.7 million from $475
million.
   Large investors say they are in no hurry to snap up
expensive new companies. "I've been trying to coach everyone
to just say `No,'" Roy McKay, manager of the $890 million
Scudder Development Fund, says of the team of Scudder
analysts that review prospective offerings. "There are a lot
of opportunities with existing companies," he says. "We don't
feel the pressure to put our money into IPOs."
   More speculative investors, who dart in and out of "hot"
IPOs to make quick profits, also have cooled their ardor
since a few deals soured, investment bankers say. Demand was
so intense for the initial offering of Buttrey Food  Drug
Stores Co., for example, that underwriters at Morgan Stanley
 Co. raised the IPO's price to $21 a share from the
originally planned range of $16 to $18, a sure sign the deal
was hot. Offered at $21, Buttrey shares traded briefly as
high as $21.50 the first day but closed at $20, where the
stock tread water for a few days before drifting lower.
Yesterday, Buttrey closed at $17.75 in national
over-the-counter trading.
   Of course, a few red-hot IPOs are still "popping," or
jumping to a premium on the first day of trading. Lone Star
Steak house  Saloon Inc., priced at $13.50 last week,
quickly vaulted 55%. It closed yesterday at $22.125 in
over-the-counter trading. But the IPO was limited to only 1.4
million shares; underwriters say that now it is mainly such
smaller issues, with large institutional followings, that are
likely to quickly jump in price.
   What is much more worrisome is that a number of recent
IPOs are trading at huge multiples of their per-share
earnings, in some cases as high as 100 times profit.
   Investment bankers say they recently have been forced back
to the negotiating table when buyers balked at some lofty IPO
prices. "We realized it was time to go back to the issuers
and have some more frank discussions about what a particular
deal is really worth," one banker says.
   AmeriServ, for example, had hoped to sell 5.1 million
shares to the public at about $11 each, hoping to use the
proceeds to pare its $70 million in debt. But buyers were
wary; underwriters offered the stock at $9 a share and then
dropped the price to $7.50 before deciding to postpone the
IPO, according to potential investors who passed on the deal.
An official with lead underwriter Donaldson, Lufkin 
Jenrette Inc. declined to comment.
   Veteran IPO investors say they welcome any cooling period.
"We've been encouraged by some of the more realistic
pricing," says William Newman, who manages a portfolio of
small and medium-sized stocks for Bankers Trust Co.
   He is looking at the pending IPO of Xircom Inc., a maker
of products that connect laptop computers with local-area
networks. Xircom plans to sell three million shares,
including one million by insiders, at $10 to $12 each. SP
analyst Robert Natale is concerned, however, about how long
Xircom can keep competitors at bay and recommends that
investors "flip" the stock as soon as they get it.
   But the biggest deal of the year -- American Express Co.'s
offering of its wholly owned subsidiary, First Data Corp. --
appeals to Mr. Natale. The leading third-party processor of
MasterCard and Visa credit card transactions, First Data
should be in a good position to benefit from an economic
recovery, he says. At a proposed price of $24 to $26 a share,
he calls the 44 million share offering reasonably priced.
   Despite the recent hints of sobriety in IPO prices, large
investors say it won't take much to get IPOs sparking again.
For the year, IPOs have been a good bet: SP's new-issues
index is up 6.2% since year's end, compared with a 1.9% fall
in the SP 500. "It doesn't take long to get the animal
spirits going again," says Mr. Newman of Bankers Trust.
"Another week of higher stock prices and you'll take the
wraps off of some of these offerings."