U.S. Youngsters Score Low in Science,
   Math, But Testing Methods Questioned
   ----
   By Jonathan Weil
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
However, officials from the Educational Testing Service of
Princeton, N.J., which conducted the survey, played down the
inevitable comparisons of American schoolchildren to their
foreign counterparts.
   "These results help us see what is possible for nine or
13-year-olds to do no matter what country they're from," ETS
President Gregory R. Anrig said. "If a Korean 13-year-old can
do something there's no reason for an American not to be able
to. But we've got to figure out how to do that. It's more
important to use it that way {in order to set national goals}
than the traditional American horse race approach."
   South Korean children scored the highest in all
categories. Children from Taiwan, Switzerland, Hungary and
the former Soviet Union were consistently in the top five.
   A 1988 ETS comparison of math and science skills in the
U.S., South Korea, the United Kingdom, Ireland and four
Canadian provinces showed U.S. 13-year-olds at the bottom and
South Koreans at the top. However, a ETS spokesman said
neither the methodologies nor the results of the two studies
are comparable.
   Results of the latest study, funded by the National
Science Foundation, the U.S. Department of Education and the
Carnegie Foundation, concluded that the top students from all
countries in the study performed at the same achievement
levels.
   The amount of student homework in mathematics and science
was greater among three of the four highest-ranked countries
than in the U.S. And the number of American students watching
television five hours or more a day was more than twice that
of the highest ranking countries.
   Also, the study reports, throwing money at education is no
cure-all. The U.S. spends 7.5% of its gross national product
on education, compared with South Korea's 4.5%.
   "There's not a lot of news," said Diane S. Ravitch,
assistant secretary for educational research and improvement.
"Our best kids are doing well. Our problem is with the other
90%, which is well below where it should be."
   Ms. Ravitch endorsed greater standardization of
educational goals in elementary and secondary schools, urging
Congress to appropriate more funding for training of
elementary and secondary school math and science teachers.
   The survey acknowledged that findings from 12 of the 20
surveyed countries are not of representative population
samples. For example, in the former Soviet Union, only those
in Russian-speaking schools were included in the study,
excluding 40% of the population from the sample. And in
Italy, only students in schools in northern Emilia-Romagna
province were tested, eliminating as many as 96% of the
student population.
   "They're often skewing testing in at least some of the
countries to the more elite schools," said Iris Rotberg, a
senior social scientist at the Rand Corp. in Washington
currently on leave from the National Science Foundation.
   "This is very visible research, and people are attempting
to base public policy on its results. But for the most part,
it's irrelevant for public policy purposes . . . These are
blips. These are artifacts. They don't mean anything," Ms.
Rotberg said.
   Those announcing the results defended the methodology,
saying that recently tightened standards of the National
Academy of Sciences were met, as were quality control
measures.