Freddie Mac Eases
   Mortgage Rules
   To Eliminate Bias
   ----
   By Paulette Thomas
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
A recent study by the Federal Reserve Board, for example,
said just 3.6% of the 350,000 mortgages that Freddie Mac
bought in 1990 were in neighborhoods of more than 80%
minority populations. The same study showed that blacks
across the country are more than twice as likely to be
rejected for mortgages than whites with similar incomes.
   Another study, commissioned by Freddie Mac, said the
agency's underwriting guidelines "might have unintentionally
contributed to discriminatory lending practices."
   Freddie Mac said a panel of 30 lenders and community
groups helped to shape the new guidelines and clarify others.
"We've changed the substance of some of our requirements to
more clearly point out the flexibility that exists in them,"
said Leland C. Brendsel, Freddie Mac chairman and chief
executive, adding that he is "committed to make sure that our
underwriting guidelines have no hidden biases."
   The new guidelines break with some industry practices. The
agency, for example, will consider buying mortgages from
applicants who have no history of credit. It also will allow
public assistance, including food stamps, to be considered as
income. A history of timely payment of rent and utilities may
be considered as a good credit record, under the new
guidelines. Grants from housing programs and nonprofit
community organizations may be acceptable as down payments on
the home.
   "I'm glad to see that Freddie Mac accepts the fact that
their impact on the market is not necessarily benign," said
Chris Lewis, a lobbyist for the Association of Community
Organizations for Reform Now, a low-income and
moderate-income group.
   He noted that the guidelines still allow Freddie Mac to
reject mortgages based on broad assessments of neighborhood
"viability."
   Nearly 60% of all mortgages made are bought by
secondary-market players, such as Freddie Mac and the larger
Federal National Mortgage Association, or Fannie Mae.