Quick  Reilly, With Strings Attached,
   Offers Money-Back Guarantee on Trades
   ----
   By William Power
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
There are some strings attached, however. Quick  Reilly
makes no guarantees about a stock's investment performance.
Nor are there any promises about the price at which a trade
will be executed. "The execution of it is not guaranteed;
it's the service on the part of the local branch office,"
said Mr. Quick, adding: "I don't have any control if a
customer doesn't like the price of a stock because he's in a
fast-moving market."
   A complaint qualifying for a refund, Quick  Reilly said,
would include a delay in delivering stock certificates or any
instance in which a broker doesn't follow a customer's
instructions. For example, a commission refund would be due
if a customer who wanted to have stock registered in a
grandchild's name is sent a certificate in the name of the
grandfather instead, Mr. Quick said.
   Even with its qualifiers, the refund policy seems to be a
securities-industry first. While major brokerage firms have
refunded commissions on a case-by-case basis to bigger
customers who complain, brokers haven't offered such a
sweeping incentive to all customers. One reason: the risks of
having thousands of investors trying to wrangle free trades.
   Mr. Quick said his firm expects to pay out only a
"nominal" amount of refunds because it's confident about its
service.
   Quick  Reilly made its refund offer as it's launching a
$5 million advertising campaign. The firm said that after 14
months of research, it found that many investors believe that
discounters are less professional than full-service firms.
"We felt we had a problem with awareness," Mr. Quick said.
"We needed to emphasize personal service."
   Full-service brokerage firms such as Merrill Lynch  Co.
-- which, unlike the discounters, provide investment advice
and research along with trading -- said that they don't have
plans for any across-the-board refunds.
   Merrill said it looked into some sort of service guarantee
in late 1989 and 1990, but decided such a step would be
sending a message to investors that the firm's service
frequently falls short. "Our customers almost unanimously
said that they do not equate a warranty or a rebate with
Merrill Lynch; they weren't buying a toaster from us," said
William Henkel, director of quality assurance for its
brokerage network.
   American Express Co.'s Shearson Lehman Brothers Inc. unit
said it doesn't need such a gimmick because "quality service
is a given." And a spokesman for Dean Witter Reynolds, the
brokerage unit of Sears, Roebuck  Co., took a jab: "We
weren't aware that (Quick  Reilly) had poor service in the
first place. We always thought they were OK."