Economy:
   Hollings Invokes
   Hiroshima as Reply
   To Japanese Critic
   ---
   Senator Reminds Workers
   That Mushroom Cloud
   Was `Made in America'
   ----
   By Laurie M. Grossman and Michael J. McCarthy
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
In an obvious allusion to the August 1945 bombings of
Hiroshima and Nagasaki, in which nearly 200,000 Japanese
perished, the senator told the workers, "You should draw a
mushroom cloud and put underneath it, `Made in America' by
lazy and illiterate Americans and tested in Japan."
   The remark drew applause from the Roller Bearing workers.
   But the comment stunned state officials who have worked
hard and successfully to attract foreign investment to the
state, much of it from Japan. Gov. Carroll Campbell, who is
so keen on recruiting foreign investment that he recently
flew to Taiwan and Japan in search of investors, responded in
a handwritten statement, "There are many fine Japanese
companies located in South Carolina employing thousands of
our workers. These companies brag on how qualified South
Carolinians are. . . . I resent Japanese politicians
criticizing American workers. But excessive rhetoric on
either side serves no useful purpose."
   Foreign investment provides one-third of the investment
dollars in South Carolina. Last year, foreign firms provided
$830 million of $2.4 billion in business investment. And in
recent years, 41 Japanese firms have built plants in South
Carolina, employing 9,000. Japan is second only to Germany in
investing in the state.
   Others in the state also criticized the comments. "It
doesn't help when key political leaders of the state make
remarks like that," says Prof. Jeffrey Arpan, chairman of the
international business department at the University of South
Carolina in Columbia. He adds that foreign investment,
particularly from Japan, has been crucial in revitalizing
South Carolina's economy in recent decades, allowing it to
diversify beyond its largely textile roots.
   "I was not real comfortable," said Nancy Truesdale,
executive vice president of Hartsville's Chamber of Commerce,
who was on hand at the bearing plant where the senator spoke.
"He was trying to make some American workers feel good about
themselves, but the remark was unfortunate."
   Initial reaction in Japan to Sen. Hollings' remarks was
subdued, mainly because the comments hadn't been widely
reported by Wednesday morning.
   One official at the Foreign Ministry tried to play down
the significance of the statement, saying that "It seems to
be one of the various (remarks) being made in connection with
the ongoing U.S. election campaign." But he added that he is
concerned about possible excessive reactions by the media to
the remarks.
   Sen. Hollings is an often outspoken and respected senior
member of the Senate who carries a lot of clout on
business-related matters as chairman of the Commerce
Committee. He also faces what is considered a difficult
re-election campaign this year, as he seeks his fifth term.
   An aide to Sen. Hollings said the remark was simply "a
joke," and was aimed at comments in January by Japanese
Parliament Speaker Yoshio Sakurauchi. Mr. Sakurauchi said
laziness and an illiteracy rate of 30% among the work force
was turning the U.S. into "Japan's subcontractor."
   By late yesterday, it became apparent that Sen. Hollings's
offhand remark in a South Carolina plant had taken on a life
of its own. The Senator issued this statement: "I'm not
Japan-bashing. I'm defending against America-bashing. When
you defend America, they want you to apologize. I made a joke
to make a point."