Who's News:
   Rosenfeld Leaves
   Bankers Trust Post
   For Lazard Freres
   ----
   By Steven Lipin
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The resignation comes less than one month after longtime
corporate-finance chief Ralph MacDonald retired unexpectedly
at the age of 50, and a few weeks after the resignation of C.
Edward Midgley, another corporate-finance executive who was
hired in 1990 to strengthen the bank's relationships with
corporate America.
   Mr. MacDonald, who brought in both Mr. Midgley and Mr.
Rosenfeld, was said by people close to the bank to have lost
a duel for the presidency with global-markets head Eugene B.
Shanks, who was named president Jan. 21. Mr. MacDonald, for
his part, said last week that he had been planning on
resigning when he reached the age of 50.
   The capital-markets area, which includes the bank's
proprietary trading as well as risk management such as
interest-rate swaps, is the bank's most profitable division
and receives an increasing amount of the bank's capital.
Trading and risk management accounted for almost two-thirds
of the bank's record 1991 earnings of $667 million, or $7.75
a share.
   While Bankers Trust has been trying to build its
corporate-finance relationships with the hiring of Mr.
Midgley and last year's addition of 10 investment bankers,
employees and outsiders say it hasn't borne fruit and the
resignations reflect the staff's frustration and lack of
sponsorship from top management. With merger activity drying
up and stiff competition from traditional investment banks,
corporate-finance profits have been in the doldrums, although
there has been some success in Eastern Europe.
   The departures are "a sign that something's amiss here,"
said one of the company's bankers. "The bank has come late to
relationship banking and is still struggling with it."
   Mr. Rosenfeld, 45, alluded to the differences in a brief
interview, acknowledging that "it was evolutionary for me."
He added: "Lazard is focused on relationship banking. It's
time for me to be in that kind of environment." A Lazard
spokesman said Mr. Rosenfeld "brings a wealth of experience
as an investment banker to us, and his understanding of
relationship banking will fit right in with what we are
doing."
   Mr. Rosenfeld, who was brought in with great fanfare as
head of merchant banking and mergers and acquisitions, was
also said to be unhappy with his reduced role at the firm. He
was recently told to share MA and client coverage with John
Zacamy, one of the more recent additions.
   Steven Lazarus, senior vice president at executive-search
firm Mariaschin  Co., said: "Given the departures, we'll
have to see what Bankers Trust does to show its clients and
staff that corporate finance is a business they want to be
in. Right now it doesn't seem that way."