Browning-Ferris
   Discloses Payouts
   To Fired Officials
   ----
   By Jeff Bailey
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Messrs. Hoover and Stanton were fired after each sold half
his stake in the garbage-hauling concern just weeks before a
negative announcement sent the firm's shares tumbling.
   Both men, who were also formerly board members of the
nation's No. 2 trash hauler, will continue to participate in
"all of the company's benefit plans," the statement said.
They also will receive cost-of-living adjustments on their
pay. They are listed as "part-time" employees.
   William D. Ruckelshaus, chairman and chief executive
officer, in a letter to shareholders in the annual report
also issued this week, wrote that Messrs. Stanton and Hoover
"resigned," and didn't mention the stock sales that preceded
the termination of the two men. "These men served BFI well
during a long association, and contributed much to the
company's success," Mr. Ruckelshaus wrote.
   The five-year payout and part-time status is part of an
agreement between the company and several top officers. "It
is a contractual obligation," Mr. Ruckelshaus said through a
spokesman. "If we have a contractual obligation, we'll honor
it."
   The two men sold half their Browning-Ferris stock in the
weeks before a Sept. 3 announcement that fiscal
fourth-quarter results would trail analysts' expectations.
That day, Browning-Ferris shares fell $4 to close at $21.75
in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The stock fell
further, but has rallied since, and was quoted in late
trading yesterday at $22.625, down 12.5 cents.
   Mr. Stanton sold 60,000 shares Aug. 12 at $27.61 each and
Mr. Hoover sold 15,000 shares Aug. 23 for $27 each, according
to filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
   The disclosures prompted an inquiry from the SEC, which
the agency and the company have declined to comment on. Mr.
Ruckelshaus hired outside lawyers to review the trades and
after receiving their report he fired the two men. Messrs.
Stanton and Hoover both deny any wrongdoing.
   Mr. Ruckelshaus, whose base pay is $806,000, waived his
right under an employment agreement for an additional 1991
bonus of at least $201,500, the proxy material said.
   Browning-Ferris has been hurt by the recession and some
regulatory problems at big dumps. Yesterday, it reported that
first-quarter profit fell 34% to $40.3 million, or 26 cents a
share, from $60.8 million, or 40 cents a share, a year
earlier. Revenue for the quarter ended Dec. 31 was virtually
flat at $801.3 million.