Thailand Plans
   To Overhaul
   Stock Market
   ---
   It Hopes Strict Regulation,
   New Financial Products
   Will Increase Trading
   ----
   By Cynthia Owens
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The National Assembly is expected to soon approve the
centerpiece of the program, a bill that would establish a
single regulatory body for the securities industry and
streamline many stock-market procedures. The proposed
legislation also contains Thailand's first rules against
insider trading and calls for the creation of a rating agency
to provide investors with information on public companies.
   The financial overhaul is part of a deluge of legislation
that the interim government, put in place by last year's coup
leaders, is trying to pass before it steps down for a general
election to be held on March 22.
   To be sure, it will take time for markets for such
products as commercial paper and securities derivatives to
develop and for all relevant regulations to be drafted and
implemented.
   Still, the opportunities are tremendous, says Prasarn
Trairatvorakul, a Bank of Thailand official and a principal
author of the reform package. "It is like you throw a stone
into the water and see how far the ripples will go," he says.
"They can go very far."
   Once the laws are in place, the speed and extent of the
changes will depend largely on the Securities and Exchange
Commission that the legislation will create. Under the
current system, the Finance Ministry, the Bank of Thailand
and the Stock Exchange of Thailand share regulatory powers
over the securities market, a setup that presents market
participants with a confusing array of rules in some areas
but leaves gaps in others.
   With the SEC as the central authority, regulatory
enforcement and supervision of the stock market are likely to
improve. The commission, modeled on similar agencies in more
developed financial markets, is also likely to give foreign
and domestic investors alike more confidence in the market.
   At the same time, many prohibitive regulations will be
stripped away, simplifying stock-listing procedures and
making it far easier for new financial products to enter the
market. "It will be one-stop shopping, which will save a lot
of time," says the foreign manager of a joint-venture finance
company in Bangkok.
   Removing some of the SET's regulatory responsibilities
will give the exchange time to concentrate on market
development. "International pressure will force Thailand to
change" and create new trading instruments, says Chaipat
Sahasakul, SET senior vice president. He says that once the
stock market has developed sufficiently, he would like
Thailand to create markets for public and corporate bonds,
and eventually futures and options. "If we don't do it,
somebody else will," he says.
   Last year, the SET installed one of the region's most
sophisticated computer-trading systems to help keep pace with
growth in trading. Average daily trading volume has doubled
since a year ago, and more than 50 companies are expected to
be listed this year. The exchange is planning to begin an
afternoon trading session later this year and expects 24-hour
trading within five years. Bangkok shares, after taking big
hits during the Persian Gulf crisis and the February 1991
coup, have been rising on expectations of strong economic
growth later this year.
   SET President Maruey Phadoongsidhi says the new laws will
allow regulation to catch up with these advances. His next
goal is surveillance. "We need to make provisions for better
protection of the public," Dr. Maruey says.
   Under the proposed legislation, a new rating agency will
require companies to divulge more information on their
finances than they do now before they can even receive a
rating. "A high level of disclosure should help raise the
level of research" and give investors a better idea of what
they are buying, says Robin Fox, research manager for
ChinTung Asia Ltd.'s Bangkok office.
   To expand the domestic mutual fund industry -- since 1976
limited to one company, appropriately called the Mutual Fund
Co. -- the Bank of Thailand announced last month that it was
accepting until Feb. 27 applications for up to 10 mutual-fund
licenses from financial partnerships. These groups must
include a Thai bank, to ensure adequate backing, and a
foreign partner, to provide expertise in fund management.
   "Everybody {was} juggling to find the right group," says
Ted Hayermann, president of Multi-Credit Corp. of Thailand
Ltd. His company, which is affiliated with British brokerage
house Smith New Court Securities Ltd., is a likely candidate
for one of the licenses.
   Banks also will be allowed to issue commercial paper --
short-term corporate debt -- in a first step toward
developing a financial market that offers more than bank
loans and equity issues as a way for companies to raise
funds.
   Says the central bank's Dr. Prasarn: "This is just a
start."