Court Backs Choice of General Dynamics
   To Build the Navy's Second Seawolf Sub
   ----
   By Andy Pasztor
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Tenneco Inc.'s Newport News, Va., shipbuilding unit, which
lost the bid after a heated competition, had filed suit to
block the award on the ground that the Pentagon failed to
properly weigh the potential loss of jobs in Virginia.
   Since then, the Bush administration has proposed scrapping
plans to build a fleet of the super-quiet attack submarines,
which cost more than $1.7 billion apiece. The Pentagon now
wants to finish the first Seawolf, already under construction
in Connecticut, and then proceed with plans to design a
smaller, less expensive attack submarine that could go into
production by the end of the decade.
   Congress is likely to go along with the Pentagon's plans,
though union leaders, lawmakers and locally elected officials
from both states are fighting to keep the Seawolf alive.
   The Pentagon, in effect, determined last year that it
probably wouldn't have enough work to maintain two shipyards
capable of assembling top-of-the-line submarines. Based
largely on price and efficiency reasons, the Navy picked
Electric Boat for the Seawolf work.
   Regardless of what happens to the Seawolf, some Navy brass
argue that construction of additional Los Angeles-class
attack submarines at Electric Boat is the only way to retain
engineers and skilled labor and maintain the shipyard's
production capability for the long term.
   "The Navy must continue to build submarines at least at a
low rate," or it will find it "virtually impossible to design
or build" the next generation of vessels, according to one
recent report to the service's top acquisition official. The
Navy, according to this report, is looking at "consolidating
submarine design and support . . . under one contractor" as a
long-term solution.
   Navy spokesmen said that the report's recommendations are
preliminary and that the Navy's civilian leadership hasn't
decided on a specific plan or designated a single yard for
future submarine work.
   But yesterday's ruling, which reversed a lower court
decision, is bound to provide ammunition to those advocating
a single-yard strategy for submarines. Giving Seawolf work to
one yard "will inevitably threaten the viability of the
other" yard, according to the decision, which also said the
Navy relied on "relevant and rational" criteria in awarding
the Seawolf contract.