Travel:
   Airlines Seek to Earn More From an Irritated Clientele
   ----
   By Bridget O'Brian
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
After two years of billion-dollar losses and stagnant
traffic, the nation's carriers are feverishly trying to
kick-start a stalled travel industry. But money-losing
carriers are loath to drop fares too much, for fear of losing
even more than they have. And they're also afraid to raise
them, realizing that price elasticity is close to the
snapping point.
   "Hell, they're already too high]" exclaimed Donald J.
Carty, executive vice president of AMR Corp.'s American
Airlines. Marilyn Hoppe, vice president of revenue management
for America West Airlines, agrees. The industry is "taking
too many increases," she said. "We feel traffic won't bear
that."
   The industry's domestic load factor, or percentage of
seats filled, slipped to 53.9% in January from 55.7% a year
earlier, according to the Air Transport Association. In a
further sign that the industry is worried about losing
traffic, an industrywide move to increase leisure fares by 2%
was scrapped shortly before it was to go into effect
Saturday. An earlier attempt to raise all fares 2% also lost
steam.
   What airlines are struggling to do instead is bolster the
money they get from passengers without actually having to
take the kind of across-the-board increases that make the
most public relations-minded of them cringe. One method is to
limit availability of its discounted tickets. Even a small
change can be lucrative.
   Revenue at all carriers jumped significantly after the
airline industry followed Delta Air Lines' lead last
September and eliminated a 20%-off three-day advance purchase
business fare. Travelers who had to fly with little warning
suddenly were forced into a higher fare category.
   That's also why some carriers, led by Northwest Airlines,
currently are trying to eliminate a seven-day advance
purchase fare. That would push travelers into buying either a
14-day or a 21-day fare. Those who can't plan that far ahead,
however, would end up paying the most expensive full-coach
fare. For the most price-sensitive traveler, Northwest
revived a 30-day advance purchase fare that lowers ticket
prices by an average of 10%. This strategy-lowering the
lowest fares -- is the tried-and-true method of attracting
more passengers. Northwest is a unit of NWA Inc., which in
turn is a unit of Wings Holdings Inc.
   Yet what may be lucrative for the carrier can be immensely
frustrating for the consumer. "It's like taking coupons to a
grocery store," complains William W. Bliss, a former real
estate broker who lives in Sedona, Ariz. "The person who gets
screwed is the guy who has to go at a day's notice." Some
recent, last minute trips to Los Angeles were so costly that
he decided to drive instead.
   As every business traveler knows all too well, those who
fly at the last minute pay a premium for their flexibility.
Over the past few years, that premium has grown to sometimes
four or five times the price of the cheapest seat. "The gap
between the highest and lowest fares has become too large to
become economically viable," says Don Garvette, a pricing
expert with the airline consulting firm Simat Hellieson 
Eichner.
   Passengers flying at even the lowest fares are
complaining. When Dina Markson, a fund-raiser for a New York
nonprofit organization spent a weekend at the New Orleans
Jazz and Heritage Festival four years ago, she paid about
$200 for her ticket. At $406, "this year it's ridiculous,"
she says.
   To be sure, increases of any size are especially
noticeable during a recession, when everyone's trying to cut
back. "Corporations are feeling the pinch," says Arlene
Macchia, manager of travel and meeting services for Allied
Signal Inc., an aerospace, automotive and
engineered-materials company. "Up until this time we were all
fat and happy."
   While Topaz Enterprises Inc., a travel auditing firm, says
corporate travel costs have increased only 12% since 1990,
don't try telling that to Pam Koles, manager of travel
services at BOC Group PLC, a British industrial gas and
health-care concern.
   Ms. Koles is frustrated by another airline method of
raising fares without raising fares -- the elimination of
many corporate discounts or scaling them back. Her company
negotiated a special contract with one airline, which she
wouldn't name, that called for providing a certain number of
passengers in return for a special discount. Recently, after
only a year, the carrier declined to renew.
   "I think corporate travel is a victim of the airlines,"
she says. "There's this perception by airlines that business
travelers have to pay this because they have to go, that it's
a captured market. Well, we don't have to travel."
   Companies like Ms. Koles's increasingly are looking hard
at all business trips. Video conferencing is replacing many
face-to-face meetings and sometimes eliminating the need to
travel at all.
   At Allied Signal, Ms. Macchia says employees are shopping
around for the best prices and whenever possible combining
what would have been two trips into one. And if an employee
wants to stay over on a Saturday night, thus becoming
eligible for a lower fare, "we wouldn't be unhappy with
that."
   Harold Seligman, president of the travel consulting
concern Management Alternatives, has a client whose travel
policy may be the most succinct of all: "If you can't fax it,
forget it."
   Airlines are painfully aware of the perception that
they're gouging passengers. Flyers schooled on the cut-rate
fares of the 1980s are having difficulty adjusting to the
higher fares of the recessionary 1990s, the airlines say.
   "The public without question has been somewhat spoiled
with the availability of desperation fares, and has come to
believe those levels represent the true value of the
transportation," says a Delta spokesman. "That's not true at
all."
   When flyers write into American Airlines to complain about
fares, chief financial officer Michael J. Durham frequently
finds out what their companies manufacture, checks the price
over the past several years and writes back to point out that
their product costs more these days, too.
   "On average, ticket prices today are lower in
inflation-adjusted terms than they were 10 years ago," he
says. Unfortunately, he says, the industry "has developed a
pricing system that's almost always destined to make the
consumer feel he's paid more than the product is worth."
   What Americans would like to see is the industry adopt a
fare system in which the highest fare comes down and perhaps
the lowest fare does, too. There would be enough fare levels
in between to provide a mix that would prove profitable. At
present, however, " We're obviously not enjoying monopoly
prices, because we're all losing our butts," says Mr. Durham.