International:
   North Korea Delays Meeting With U.S.,
   Which Seeks `Modest Upgrade' in Ties
   ----
   By Michel McQueen and Damon Darlin
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
U.S. National Security Adviser Brent Scowcroft, who
accompanied President Bush on his visit to Seoul, told
reporters the U.S. made the overture in the hope of
contributing to reconciliation efforts between North and
South Korea. He said initially that the North Koreans
rejected the effort, but other officials later indicated it
wasn't a complete rebuff.
   "They came back a couple of days ago and said they wanted
a delay," one U.S. official said. "They were interested, but
they didn't know when."
   The Bush administration and the South Korean government of
President Roh Tae Woo are consulting over ways to draw North
Korea out of its isolation. U.S. and South Korean officials
strongly denied a New York Times story Monday that said Mr.
Bush was "implicitly critical" of Mr. Roh for signing pacts
with North Korea that may lead to reconciliation of the
divided nations.
   "He didn't say that. He didn't say that at all," said Mr.
Scowcroft, who attended the private dinner where the comments
supposedly were made. A senior South Korean government
spokesman said, "We are in full lockstep."
   Another participant at the dinner, South Korea's
ambassador to the U.S. Hyun Hong Choo, said the two leaders
discussed how to get China and Japan involved in the Korean
reconciliation effort. Both leaders are still suspicious of
North Korean intentions, Ambassador Hyun said, adding that
"There was no tone of warning from President Bush."
   South Korea has declared that it is free of nuclear
weapons and will use nuclear energy only for peaceful
purposes. The U.S. has cooperated by removing all its nuclear
weapons from the country, undermining excuses North Korea had
made for not signing an inspection treaty.
   North and South Korea recently agreed to make the Korean
peninsula a nuclear-free zone and pledged to work toward
mutual inspection. The two sides also agreed on the need for
"confidence-building measures," such as more trade and
communication.
   Mr. Bush was to leave South Korea today for a four-day
visit to Japan, completing a 12-day trip that also included
Australia and Singapore.
   In public, Mr. Bush said that the U.S. "fully endorses"
South Korea's initiatives and that the U.S. would continue
its military support for South Korea, where about 40,000 U.S.
troops are stationed.
   "Paper promises won't keep the peace," Mr. Bush said in a
speech before the South Korean National Assembly. The U.S.
president also strongly warned against growing isolationist
sentiment in the U.S. "As long as I am the president, the
U.S. will remain absolutely opposed to isolationism," he said
in a speech to business leaders.
   At a news conference, Mr. Bush said that if North Korea
fulfills its promises to allow international inspection of
nuclear facilities, the U.S. and South Korea would cancel
their annual joint military exercises. North Korea has
frequently demanded an end to the large-scale war games. On
Tuesday, South Korea's Defense Ministry announced that it was
suspending the exercises, the Associated Press reported.
Earlier, Japan's Kyodo news service, citing U.N. sources in
Vienna, and South Korea's Yonhap news service said North
Korea was likely to sign a nuclear inspection accord, without
conditions, as early as this week.
   In private discussions with Mr. Roh, Mr. Bush played down
U.S. requests for more action on lowering trade barriers. But
publicly Mr. Bush hectored South Korean businessmen about
their country's reluctance to open markets further. At a
luncheon speech to American and Korean business executives,
Mr. Bush said, despite Seoul's removal of many trade
barriers, "doing business is still more difficult than it
should be for such a proud and successful country." He cited
for special criticism South Korea's annual
government-sponsored "frugality" campaigns, which urge
citizens to buy domestic products. "Attitudes toward imports
must change," he said. "While the notion of frugality isn't
inherently bad, import restrictions hurt your own consumers
and weaken the competitiveness of your firms."
   At the urging of American business executives traveling
with Mr. Bush, the White House inserted several sentences in
the president's speech calling for broader opening of South
Korea's financial markets. "In order for Korea to build upon
its own spectacular growth it will need a more open financial
system," the president said.