Retailing:
   Tough Economic Times Are Knocking
   Stuffing Out of Many Furniture Stores
   ----
   By James S. Hirsch
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
"When it happens, it's like a loved one lying in bed
dying, and one day he closes his eyes," says Chairman Marvin
Homer, whose immigrant father founded the company in 1912
with four brothers. "I felt numb."
   The home-furnishing business has taken a beating this
recession as consumers have decided they can do without new
$1,200 wicker sofas and $700 paisley poufs. Retail sales of
furniture fell 6% last year, to $28.19 billion, the second
consecutive yearly decline in inflation-adjusted dollars,
according to Wallace Epperson, an analyst at Mann Armistead 
Epperson, based in Richmond, Va. More than 1,800
furniture-store companies went out of business in the first
10 months of last year, up 21% from the year-ago period,
reports Dun  Bradstreet Corp.
   Not just the mom and pop operations are failing. This
month, Seaman Furniture Co., operating under heavy debt after
going private four years ago, filed for Chapter 11
bankruptcy-law protection from creditors. The furniture
retailer, based in Uniondale, N.Y., said it plans to close 15
of its 37 stores. The wreckage is even worse in Southern
California, land of high rents and upscale upholstery, where
Barker Bros., RB Furniture Inc. and at least two other major
retail furniture chains have filed for bankruptcy protection
in recent months.
   Retailers say the region's soft economy has made $1,000
loveseats a luxury item, and survivors -- competing against
liquidation sales -- are barely hanging on. "You want to
offer service and quality products, and the guy next door
comes out with ads screaming `40% off,'" says Richard Raguse,
financial vice president of Thomasville Furniture Industries
Inc. of Orange County, Calif. "You just have to hang in there
for the short-term shootout."
   While recessions have never been kind to furniture stores,
this downturn has been particularly unforgiving. For one
thing, layoffs have devastated white-collar employees,
usually furniture stores' best customers because they have
the most discretionary income. And many professionals who
haven't lost their jobs are too nervous to splurge on a
$1,600 cherry-wood armoire.
   Noting that people are tending to hold on to their
furniture longer these days than in recent years, M. Farooq
Kathwari, chairman of Ethan Allen Inc., says, "The consumer
is becoming more of an owner of products instead of a user."
   Consumers, when they do buy, aren't trading down in
quality, but they are paring costs in other ways. They are
opting for decorative accessories, like porcelain lamps,
instead of major pieces, or they are picking up a single
chair, forgoing the matching loveseat and sofa. They are also
hunting for, and getting, bargains.
   "If it's not a necessity, people are waiting for values,"
says Bernadette Castro, chief executive officer of Castro
Convertibles Corp. Last year, the New Hyde Park, N.Y.,
furniture company twice ran promotions in which it gave away
a matching $1,250 loveseat with the purchase of a queen-size
bed -- the first such giveaway in the chain's 60-year
history.
   Even in good times, selling furniture isn't easy, as many
people are traumatized by the possibility of committing a
decorating gaffe that could haunt their home for years. But
now furniture stores are facing competition on new fronts.
Couch potatoes are buying their sofas, fittingly, from home,
using a growing number of furniture catalogs. (There are more
than 80.) Imported home furnishings, from chains like
Sweden's Ikea AB, the Bombay Co. and Pier 1 Imports Inc.,
have also grown in popularity. And specialty stores for
bedding, lampshades, recliners -- whatever -- are carving out
lucrative niches.
   Even renegade entrepreneurs are jumping in. Mr. Epperson,
the furniture analyst, recently spotted a man on a grass
field in Richmond who hauled a truckload of generic recliners
from Tennessee. A sign read: "Today only, any recliner $130."
"It's a sign of the times," Mr. Epperson says.
   With pressure on prices, many furniture stores are
emphasizing service and custom-crafted goods. Sofa  Chair
Co., which has five outlets in St. Louis, allows customers to
choose the color, size and style of their furniture. When a
bank executive's wife returned from France with a rich piece
of fabric, the company, which contracts out its
manufacturing, made it into a sofa covering.
   At Ethan Allen, known for its classic American colonial
designs, salespeople are called "designers," attend training
seminars called "Ethan Allen college" and occasionally visit
homes of consumers who want decorating guidance. "We take a
customer and try to turn him into a client," says Mr.
Kathwari, the chairman.
   Furniture stores associated with Ethan Allen, Armstrong
World Industries Inc.'s Thomasville Furniture unit and Masco
Corp.'s Drexel Heritage Furnishings Inc. unit are likely to
emerge as winners in the current shakeout, industry analysts
say. These manufacturers have agreements or partnerships with
independent retailing outfits, many of which carry the
manufacturer's name. (Ethan Allen, sold in 300 outlets
bearing its name, owns about 10% of them.) The furniture
makers are guaranteed that their products are either carried
exclusively in that outlet or will have a percentage of floor
space. Retailers in turn benefit from the manufacturer's
national advertising campaigns, brand-name strength, training
support and, in some cases, preferential delivery schedules.
   The upshot is that other small furniture retailers may
face the same fate as the 69-year-old Mr. Homer in Chicago.
However, while he has lost his business, there are still
pleasant reminders of the family business legacy. He recently
showed up at an estate auction and bid for a beautifully
carved walnut dining-room table, with inlaid wood, that
Homer's Furniture made in the 1930s.
   He bid $3,200 -- and lost, to a bid of $5,000. Says Mr.
Homer: "That's a testament to something."