Aquino Backing
   Of Ramos Splits
   Government
   ---
   Advisers and Church Leaders
   Differ With Her Choice
   For Philippine President
   ----
   By Lawrence MacDonald
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
As expected, Mrs. Aquino announced her decision Saturday
before about 300 senior government officials and supporters
assembled at the presidential palace for a Catholic Mass
marking her 59th birthday.
   "Secretary Eddie Ramos, I am confident, will fearlessly
continue the vision of this democratic society that our
people have fought hard to re-establish" she said. "I will
support Eddie in pursuit of this goal."
   Mr. Ramos, who served Mr. Marcos for more than 10 years as
the head of the Philippine Constabulary, a paramilitary
police force, became an instant hero in February 1986 when he
switched sides and backed a popular uprising supporting Mrs.
Aquino's claim to have won a snap election called by Mr.
Marcos.
   However, as a Protestant in a nation that is 85% Catholic,
Mr. Ramos is opposed by senior Catholic leaders. Manila's
Cardinal Jaime Sin, who normally presides at religious events
attended by the president, was absent from Saturday's
ceremony. Cardinal Sin has indicated his preference for
another candidate, former Supreme Court Chief Justice Marcelo
Fernan.
   Mr. Ramos's main rival for the president's support, House
Speaker Ramon Mitra, reacted to Mrs. Aquino's choice with
bitter defiance. Speaking on Saturday to a convention of the
Laban ng Demokrattikong Pilipino, the largest party in
Congress, Mr. Mitra said: "The president's promised word has
hung over this campaign for months. Now she has spoken. But
on May 11 it will be the nation that will speak."
   Although Mr. Ramos usually rates higher than Mr. Mitra in
opinion surveys, he lacks a campaign organization and can win
only if Mrs. Aquino's endorsement attracts new supporters,
particularly congressmen, who traditionally run the national
campaign machinery of Philippine presidential candidates.
   Analysts said that it wouldn't be clear for several days
and perhaps weeks how many of Mr. Mitra's supporters within
the LDP will bolt to Mr. Ramos's camp in response to Mrs.
Aquino's endorsement and the prospect of government support.
   For now, most of the politically active relatives of Mrs.
Aquino's late husband, Sen. Beningo Aquino, whose 1983
assassination galvanized the opposition to Mr. Marcos's rule,
are supporting Mr. Mitra.
   Even Mrs. Aquino's politically influential brother, Jose
"Peping" Cojuangco, has so far declined to back her choice. A
source in Mr. Mitra's campaign said Sunday that Mr. Cojuangco
was resigning his position as secretary-general of the LDP
but would continue to be a party member. Should Mr. Cojuangco
decide to quit the party and keep a public pledge to support
his sister's choice, several key congressmen would be
expected to follow him.
   Mr. Fernan, meanwhile, said Saturday that he would
continue his quest for the presidency. Without Mrs. Aquino's
backing, however, he stands little chance. Both Mr. Mitra and
Mr. Ramos have asked him to run as their vice president to
woo Catholic Church support and to create a ticket with
balanced geographical appeal. (Mr. Fernan is from the central
Visayas, a voterich region where both Mr. Mitra and Mr. Ramos
lack strong links.)
   With several other candidates also competing for
anti-Marcos votes, analysts said that the administration
split had increased the chances of a victory by the leading
opposition candidate, Eduardo "Danding" Cojuangco, Mrs.
Aquino's estranged cousin and a former close friend and
business associate of Mr. Marcos.
   Danding Cojuangco's claim to the Marcos mantle is disputed
by several rivals, including Mr. Marcos's widow, Imelda. But
analysts said that among the opposition candidates, Mr.
Cojuangco is the strongest because he has both money and a
strong rural campaign network.