Marketing  Media:
   MCA Inc. Says
   Park's Crowds
   Surged in 1991
   ----
   By Richard Turner
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The 52% year-to-year increase must be taken in context:
the $600 million park didn't open until June 1990. When it
did, the opening was a public relations disaster because
three rides didn't work. One, "Jaws," still won't open until
1993. The year 1990 as a whole fell far short of
expectations.
   But since then, Mr. Williams said, the stream of visitors
has been steady despite the recession and a resultant
downturn in tourism. Hotel occupancy in the Orlando area fell
to 74.4% in 1991 from 78.9% the year before, according to
Patrick D'Sa, an associate at PKF Consulting in Miami. He
attributed the decline to the addition of thousands of new
hotel rooms, teamed with the recession and a travel slowdown.
   Mr. Williams said this year's 23% increase at Universal
Studios Florida occurred in the face of continued flatness in
both hotel occupancy and airline arrivals in the Orlando area
for the first two months of 1992, despite being compared with
the period of the Persian Gulf War in 1991.
   A spokeswoman for Orlando International Airport said no
figures were available for 1992. She added that although the
number of annual passengers remained flat from 1990 to 1991,
in the month of December domestic traffic was up 8.1% from a
year earlier and international traffic -- roughly 15% of all
arrivals -- was up 43.9%.
   A spokesman for the Orlando Convention and Visitors Bureau
said hotel occupancy in January was up by 1.4% from a year
ago, which he said was encouraging, "but not a dramatic
increase." Another source, the Dick Pope Jr. Institute for
Tourism Studies at the University of Central Florida, said
the January increase in hotel occupancy in its survey was
only 0.1%, in spite of a decline in the average daily room
rate of $4.30.
   Given these facts, Mr. Williams reasons, "We're taking
market share from the competition." Specifically, MCA
executives believe that their park drew "a few hundred
thousand" more visitors than Walt Disney Co.'s Disney-MGM
Studios, although they say they can't prove it. Disney-MGM,
also a Hollywood-theme park and part of Disney's dominating
Walt Disney World a few miles away, drew 28 million visitors
in 1991, down 7% from the prior year, according to Amusement
Business.
   Disney, which doesn't talk about its attendance, declined
to comment on MCA's claim, but individuals close to the
company privately dismissed it. "They're only off by a few
million," said one.