Enterprise -- Washington Update:
   SBA Panel Would Revamp Venture-Capital Program
   ----
   By Jeanne Saddler
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Although the 33-year-old program provided start-up capital
for companies such as Apple Computer Inc. and Federal Express
Corp. and also helped create the private venture-capital
industry, it has fallen on hard times in recent years. The
recession, the inherent risk of venture-capital investments
and lax SBA regulation of the program helped create a high
failure rate for SBICs in recent years, studies of the
program say.
   For example, River Capital Corp. of Springfield, Va., and
First Connecticut Small Business Investment Co. of Bridgeport
failed in 1990, owing the SBA nearly $30 million each.
Another SBIC, Royal Business Funds Inc. of New York, failed
in the late 1980s, leaving the SBA saddled with a Colorado
ski resort that its officials operated for several years at a
loss of $11 million. Last year, a review conducted for the
Senate Small Business Committee said the SBIC program is in
danger of self-destructing as a result of structural and
regulatory problems.
   Despite its recent difficulties, the SBIC program has been
an overall success, says the task-force chairwoman, Patricia
Cloherty, senior vice president of Patricof  Co. Ventures, a
New York-based venture capital firm. "The historic proof is
that the program doesn't lose money. And even with a poor
tool {the use of borrowed funds to make equity investments},
the SBICs have financed a nice crop of big companies," she
says. "The issue is to make that universe of companies
bigger."
   The task force's main recommendation for fixing the
program is aimed at its most serious structural problem: the
fact that SBICs have to make equity or long-term investments
in venture-oriented companies by using borrowed funds.
Reviews of the program suggest that many SBICs ran into
trouble because they had to repay those loans on a regular
basis, even though their investment wouldn't show any
short-term profits. The SBA already has stiffened its
oversight of the program by changing some rules and adding
staffers to review the investment companies.
   Under the task-force proposal, the report says, the
government would benefit not only from receiving the eventual
dividends paid on its preferred stock, but also from sharing
with other investors in a company's profits. The government's
return on its investment in SBICs could reach about 10% under
the new system, compared with an average of 7% in past years,
says David Croll, a member of the task force who is also
chairman of the National Association of Small Business
Investment Cos., the trade association for SBICs based here.
   Mr. Croll says the new financing proposal for the
investment companies also would attract pension-fund
investors. Pension funds, which provide about half of all the
money used by the venture-capital industry, haven't invested
in SBICs, because the old operating system would have forced
them to file complicated tax returns. The private
venture-capital industry also shrank in size during the
recession, says Mr. Croll. It now handles about $1 billion a
year, compared with about $4 billion annually in the late
1980s, he says.
   The Bush administration has said it wants to spur
investment in businesses with high potential, and SBA chief
Patricia Saiki is expected to back the task-force
recommendations when she announces them today. But the fate
of the proposal during this congressional term is uncertain,
Capitol Hill staffers say, because the proposal is new and
relatively complex. Moreover, the Bush administration's
support for the idea still isn't known.
   ---
   BUDGET BATTLE: Extra funding plan for SBA loan guarantees
hits a snag.
   Election-year politics and the 1990 budget agreement
threaten the SBA's request for added funding to help its main
loan guarantee program meet a 30% rise in demand from last
year. President Bush asked Congress to give the agency enough
money to cover an extra $1 billion of guarantee authority
this fiscal year. But his budget office suggested that
Congress find the money by cutting funds from housing
subsidies for the poor, a program to help public TV stations
buy equipment and an Indian business-development program.
Lawmakers aren't likely to cut those programs. The budget
agreement would require Congress to cut funding for something
else if it gave more money to the loan program.
   Some lawmakers also question whether the White House is
serious about its request. Even though the extra funding
would give the basic loan program $5 billion for fiscal 1992,
Mr. Bush's fiscal 1993 budget would again cut the program to
$3.5 billion. Some Democrats suggest Mr. Bush simply plans to
blame Congress if the popular program runs out of money.
   Democrats also are angry that the SBA started a special
loan program in New Hampshire just before its primary
election. Although demand for the loan guarantees is up
significantly without counting the new effort, the New
Hampshire initiative has made Congress more cynical about the
administration's motives.
   SBA chief Saiki will testify on her agency's
loan-guarantee needs before the Senate Small Business
Committee tomorrow; the House Small Business Panel will meet
on the issue today.
   ---
   REGULATORY RELIEF: Combining some environmental regulation
and reporting functions was proposed yesterday by the
Printing Industries of America, which represents 13,000
printers, and the Small Business Legislative Council, a
coalition of 100 other trade organizations. The groups asked
a House committee's panel on Transportation and Hazardous
Materials to support letting small firms file one annual
inventory report on all of the hazardous materials they use;
on-site consultations with federal officials about
environmental rules without the threat of fines; and
coordination of rules by various federal agencies. "The
overwhelming majority of people will do the right thing if
they know what the right thing is," said Ben Cooper, chief
lobbyist for the printers group. "Our environmental laws are
so confusing, they make it impossible to know what the right
thing is."