International:
   Russia, Ukraine Will Go Head to Head
   Over Military Issues at C.I.S. Conference
   ----
   By Gerald F. Seib and Natalia A. Feduschak
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
Russian President Boris Yeltsin, likewise, will be called
upon to explain his decision this week to create a Russian
defense ministry, the first step toward a separate Russian
army, apparently dooming a unified C.I.S. military command
that was previously agreed to. Western military attaches in
Moscow say the move indicates Russia thinks the 11-nation
commonwealth can't survive as a military entity.
   The two strongest C.I.S. members also remain locked in a
dangerous tug of war over control of the Soviet Black Sea
Fleet, based in the Crimea, on Ukrainian territory. In recent
days, according to an officer at the fleet's base at
Sevastopol, Ukrainian leaders escalated their demands in
negotiations with Russia and other republics. Ukraine, which
once demanded possession of 20% to 30% of the fleet to guard
its seacoast, is now demanding more than 80% of the
nonstrategic portion of the 300-ship fleet, the officer says.
   Officers say a vast majority of officers and sailors
support keeping the fleet as part of the C.I.S. armed forces.
"There are so many difficulties if we separate {the fleet},"
says Gen. Vladimir Russakoff, commander of a naval air
division.
   If this weekend's summit meeting doesn't resolve questions
about the fleet, officers in Sevastopol say ominously that
they see other, less conventional ways to work out the
dispute. They note that a Crimean political movement is
collecting signatures to force a referendum to separate the
Crimean peninsula from Ukraine. The Crimea is former Russian
territory that was ceded to Ukraine in 1954.
   The movement has until April 3 to gather the 180,000
signatures needed to force a vote to break away the Crimea,
officers say. If it succeeds, the Crimea, populated
overwhelmingly by ethnic Russians, could become an
independent area, or affiliate with Russia. And Crimea's
leaders then could give Sevastopol special status as the home
of the Black Sea Fleet, or make Sevastopol an internationally
open zone in which the fleet could remain under C.I.S. or
Russian control.
   Despite the halt in nuclear shipments to Russia, President
Kravchuk still insists that Ukraine plans to remain
nuclear-free. He recently asked the West to help build a
reprocessing plant in Ukraine to destroy the nuclear weapons
locally under international supervision. He said this would
guarantee their destruction and provide fuel for Ukraine's
nuclear power plants.
   Ukrainian officials complain that, by sending nuclear
weapons to Russia, they are giving away something for
nothing. Ukrainian industry helped build the weapons, and
officials in Kiev say the nuclear material in them is worth
at least $1 billion. They would like to see at least some of
it returned as nuclear fuel.