French Lessons:
   The Agnellis of Italy
   Learn How Not to Do
   A Takeover in Paris
   ---
   A Nasty Fight Over Perrier
   Results From Friendly Bid
   For Its Parent Company
   ---
   The Swiss Knight Strategy
   ----
   By Peter Gumbel and E.S. Browning
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
Imagine, therefore, Mr. Agnelli's dismay to find himself
embroiled in a bitter takeover contest in France that he
neither wanted nor expected, lined up against the very
friends he has been courting all these years. That is
precisely the situation the Agnelli group now faces as it
battles for control of Source Perrier S.A., the famous
mineral-water company, and its parent, Exor S.A., in one of
the few big takeover fights anywhere in recent months.
   What started out as an amiable effort by the Agnellis to
increase their already substantial stake in Exor has suddenly
turned into a nasty takeover brawl reminiscent of the roaring
1980s. The Agnellis are pitted against an alliance between
two of Europe's biggest food groups, Nestle S.A. of
Switzerland and France's BSN S.A. Adding poignancy to the
affair is the fact that the Agnellis, through a complex
network of cross-shareholdings, are linked both to BSN and to
its powerful investment bank, Lazard Freres  Cie. Yet here
is Lazard, the Agnellis' oldest French friend, whose senior
partner sits on Fiat's board, leading the counterattack
against them.
   The Italians say they are avoiding public comment until
the fight is over. But privately they aren't hiding their
astonishment and anger. "Of course we are upset," fumes one
of their top officials. "It is all very, very surprising for
us."
   The outcome of the battle, which is being waged as much in
the French courts as on the Paris Bourse, is far from
certain. One thing, however, is already clear: For all its
recent liberalization, the French business establishment is
still run by a powerful old-boy network that is hard to
penetrate -- and that can blackball would-be members who get
uppity.
   The Agnellis have stumbled, according to officials from
both sides, because they tried to circumvent the tight-knit
club. By cutting Lazard and others out of the original Exor
deal, they turned allies into enemies. In part because of
stubborn Italian pride, both sides suggest, they then refused
to shift tack and repair the damage.
   "The problem is that they managed to alienate a large
number of important French companies. It wasn't just us,"
says Antoine Riboud, the chairman of BSN, an erstwhile
Agnelli ally that launched a counter-bid for Exor on Feb. 21.
"They made a big mistake."
   The "mistake," retorts an official close to the Italians,
was to believe that Paris is an open market. "The Agnellis
were thinking like Americans and not like Frenchmen," the
official says. "They said, what does the book say we should
do? Then they went by the book. They didn't consider the
psychological reaction."
   Europe has, in fact, been opening its financial markets in
the drive toward economic union. An Italian-Swiss battle for
control of so prestigious a French natural resource would
have been unthinkable just a few years ago. But nationalism
remains a potent force in mergers and acquisitions, and in
practice Europe-wide regulations still count less than local
customs.
   Italy's gung-ho entrepreneurs have been learning this
lesson most painfully. Carlo De Benedetti took on the Belgian
establishment and lost when he tried to wrest control of
Societe Generale de Belgique in 1988. More recently, Leopoldo
Pirelli ran into fierce German resistance when he bid for
tire maker Continental AG. The botched hostile effort cost
Pirelli S.p.A. tens of millions of dollars -- and led to Mr.
Pirelli's relinquishing executive control.
   The Agnellis thought they were on safer ground in France
because they had painstakingly forged a relationship with the
financial establishment, especially Lazard. That bank, housed
in an unmarked and unflashy building on Boulevard Haussmann,
prides itself on discretion. "We are a little like a maitre
d'hotel who serves a meal," Michel David-Weill, its lead
partner, once remarked. "The mistress of the house doesn't
particularly want you to congratulate the maitre d'hotel for
the dinner."
   The modest veneer, however, belies financial clout -- and
more than a dash of arrogance. Lazard, its critics say, likes
to think that no major deals are done in France without its
approval. It also has influential branches in New York and
London.
   Mindful of its power, Mr. Agnelli took pains to cultivate
Lazard over the years. When he had business to do in France,
he asked its advice. Associates say he fostered a personal
friendship with Andre Meyer, an autocratic partner who did
much to establish Lazard's international reputation before he
died in 1979.
   The Agnellis' troubles trace back to the fall of 1990,
when they decided they didn't need their hand held any more
in the French business world. They had Fiat swap some shares
and assets with French telephone giant Alcatel Alsthom S.A.
-- without involving Lazard. Lazard was snubbed again when
the Agnellis bought into Exor, a $1 billion holding company
that includes some swank Paris real estate, the prestigious
Chateau Margaux Bordeaux vineyard and a 35% controlling
minority interest in Perrier.
   The Agnellis first bought a 13.5% stake in Exor in January
1991. They slowly raised it to 34% and then, last November,
made a takeover bid. (The Agnellis have since raised their
Exor stake to nearly 40%.) The transactions culminated months
of patient negotiations with Exor's founders, the
Franco-Greek Mentzelopoulos family, and with Exor management.
   Agnelli officials say they saw no need to retain Lazard to
assist with what was supposed to be a friendly acquisition.
By then, Gianluigi Gabetti, the head of the Agnelli family's
main Italian holding company, had developed a strong personal
relationship with the Mentzelopoulos family and with Exor's
chairman, Jacques Vincent, the officials say. Indeed, they
had every reason not to bring in Lazard: Mr. Vincent is a
corporate maverick who doesn't get on well with leaders of
the Paris financial establishment.
   "It was a typical case where no intervention by an
investment bank was necessary," says a senior Agnelli
official.
   The transaction, he adds, shouldn't have taken anyone by
surprise. For months the Agnellis had signaled that they
wanted to gain control of Exor as part of their strategy for
expanding in France. Lazard's Mr. David-Weill and BSN's Mr.
Riboud should have been familiar with these general plans,
Agnelli officials say, because both sit on the boards of
Agnelli companies, including the main holding company in
Italy and its two investment arms.
   For his part, Mr. Agnelli is a board member of Lazard's
parent, while his brother Umberto sits on BSN's board. The
Agnelli group holds 5.8% of BSN stock. The Agnellis and BSN
also have operated several Italian noodle, sauce and cheese
joint ventures, although BSN now is in the process of buying
out the Agnellis' share.
   Moreover, Agnelli officials maintain, BSN had indicated to
them that it was prevented by antitrust considerations from
taking part in the Exor deal even if it had wanted to. BSN
holds a large share of the French mineral-water market with
its Evian and other brands, and any link with Perrier, the
market leader, risked being vetoed by French authorities.
   BSN's Mr. Riboud, however, says he told the Agnellis that
they were wrong to leave him out of an Exor bid, and warned
that he might act if a third party entered the scene. "I said
to them, everything that touches mineral water is our
business," Mr. Riboud recalls.
   He had another reason to be nervous about the Agnellis'
move into Exor. The Agnellis have made no secret of their
wish for a larger stake in BSN, and some in the French
establishment saw their Exor bid as a prelude to a move for
greater influence at BSN itself.
   Whatever the case, the Italians were ill-prepared for the
storm that greeted their Nov. 28 bid for Exor. Within days,
they were under fire from the French press and some of the
big guns of the French establishment.
   Critics included Cie. de Suez, the powerful investment
group, Credit Agricole, a major bank, and the French
government's huge investment arm Caisse des Depots 
Consignations, all minority Exor shareholders. They
complained that the Italian bid of 1,320 francs ($240) per
Exor share, a 23% premium on its market value before the
offer, was far below the stock's historic high.
   There were some efforts to patch things up. Suez, which
both is a holder of Exor stock and is itself partly owned by
Exor, tried to persuade the Agnellis to give it a piece of
the action. So did Mr. Riboud and his banker, Lazard.
   The Agnellis, however, declined to include them. Agnelli
group officials say they did so largely in deference to their
partners, Mr. Vincent and the Mentzelopoulos family, who
wanted to proceed as planned. But when the French bourse's
market watchdog launched an investigation into the deal early
in December, the Italians sensed that they were running into
trouble. "We already had an indication that there were
difficulties," says a top Agnelli official.
   The trouble was far bigger than they could have imagined.
It took the shape of Nestle, the giant food group. According
to an official report by the Paris market's regulators, the
Commission des Operations de Bourse, a financial arm of Suez
contacted Nestle within days of the Agnelli takeover
announcement to canvass interest in a rival bid for Perrier.
   The Swiss, who had long been interested in Perrier but
thought it untouchable, jumped at the chance. Unlike the
Agnellis, Nestle was prepared to cooperate with key players
from the French establishment. The obvious candidates were
Suez and BSN. When Nestle's chairman phoned Mr. Riboud just
before Christmas, the BSN chief recalls, "I said, `I'll hop
on a plane and be right down to see you.'"
   Lazard, turning on the Agnellis, egged Nestle and BSN on.
By the end of the month, the Swiss company had started buying
stock in both Exor and Perrier.
   Two key meetings then followed, and Lazard helped to set
up both. On Jan. 3, it was host of a meeting between Nestle's
finance chief, Reto Domeniconi, and BSN's Mr. Riboud. They
discussed various options for gaining control of Perrier,
with the aim of dividing it between them. Before launching a
rival bid, however, they decided to give Mr. Agnelli a last
chance to settle the matter on friendly terms.
   That evening, Lazard's Mr. David-Weill telephoned Mr.
Agnelli, who was on a mountain vacation, and asked for a
meeting the following Sunday, Jan. 5. He informed Mr. Agnelli
that Nestle would also be attending, leaving little doubt
that the Swiss company was interested in Perrier. According
to testimony Mr. David-Weill gave to Paris Bourse regulators,
Mr. Agnelli agreed to meet but described his associates as
"not flexible and rather difficult."
   At 3 p.m. that Sunday, Mr. David-Weill, Mr. Riboud of BSN
and Nestle's Mr. Domeniconi met in Turin, the Agnelli group's
headquarters, with Mr. Agnelli, his brother Umberto and Mr.
Gabetti of the Agnelli holding company. The Franco-Swiss
message was clear: You can keep Chateau Margaux and the Paris
real estate, but let us have Perrier, or we will take it with
a hostile bid. Although he could have made a significant
capital gain by selling out to the Nestle group, Mr.
Agnelli's reply was equally clear: Exor and Perrier are not
to be divided up.
   Why Mr. Agnelli rejected these overtures is unclear. But
officials on both sides say Latin pride and loyalty played a
role. Having developed a strong relationship with Mr.
Vincent, Exor's chairman, the Agnellis were reluctant to
renege on their deal with him and the Mentzelopouloses.
   The Italians struck back. The day after the Turin meeting,
an Agnelli ally, food and paper concern Saint Louis S.A.,
acquired a 13.8% Perrier stake. This gave the Agnellis and
their allies control of a seemingly untoppable 49.3% of
Perrier stock. But it also left them open to charges that
they had misused inside knowledge of Nestle's intentions.
French regulators said they didn't find evidence of
wrongdoing, but Nestle has brought the case before a Paris
commercial court. And the regulators nonetheless ruled that
because of the sharp increase in their Perrier stake, the
Agnelli-led group must bid for Perrier as well as Exor. They
did so last Thursday.
   No one knows how or when all of this will end. Feelings
now may be running too high for a friendly solution.
"Confrontation doesn't frighten us," Giovanni Agnelli said
last week in a rare public comment, adding that "the war
could be long."
   Regardless of who wins, the battle will leave scars both
for the French establishment and for the Agnellis. "The
Agnellis thought it was like buying a cigarette pack at the
tobacconist," says one member of the French establishment.
"Then someone comes in with a gun. It's a holdup and there's
blood all over the floor."