Letters to the Editor --
   They're Coming Back:
   It's Over Over There
We plan to reduce overseas-military strength by about 26%
in the next four years. During that time, we will vacate 39%
of our supporting sites, which range in size from small plots
of land to the Lucius D. Clay Kaserne, which houses more than
4,000 U.S. military and civilian personnel.
   The Defense Department has established procedures for
vacating foreign bases. Following our public announcement,
negotiations begin with the host governments in accordance
with base rights and stationing agreements. We negotiate
compensation for our investments in the facilities,
environmental cleanup responsibilities and other damage
claims, and disposition of equipment. If there is
environmental damage, we first determine who was responsible.
Many of our sites have been occupied by various international
powers over the years. Contamination may have occurred before
U.S. occupancy.
   We have announced the return of several depot-maintenance
facilities in Germany. Americans will now be working an
additional one million hours at Army depots and private
factories in the U.S. overhauling military equipment.
   The bottom line: We already have vacated many sites
overseas, and have plans to accomplish much more just as
quickly. And we have maintained the security of the U.S. and
its allies while protecting the interests of our taxpayers.
   Colin McMillan
   Assistant Secretary of Defense
   Production and Logistics
   Washington
   ---
   As an ex-German who shall remain forever grateful to the
brave Americans who, first, liberated us from Hitler's
tyranny and then stood guard for more than 40 years to
protect Germany from the evils of communism, I am utterly
dismayed to read in Mr. Garfinkle's article that last October
"an army of German military bureaucrats descended on
Washington officialdom making a series of demands," among
them "that, when the U.S. vacates bases in Germany, it pay
for environmental cleanup in accord with German law and
standards." Have these Germans no couth?
   When our family travels to Europe, we make it a point to
visit American military cemeteries, there to reflect upon the
gift the gallant ones resting there bestowed upon us, and
there to pay our respects. I would recommend such a visit to
that "army of German military bureaucrats." Perhaps they
might return to ask that Americans, especially the families
of those who gave their lives in World War II, forgive them.
   Uwe E. Reinhardt
   Princeton, N.J.