Marketing:
   From Sharks to Hornets, Team Logos
   Help Sports Apparel Score
   ----
   By Laurie M. Grossman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Consider:
   -- The NHL, which had trouble giving away licensed apparel
in the 1980s, has seen sales double in each of the past two
years to about $200 million annually.
   -- In the NBA, sales of licensed apparel soared from $10
million in 1984 to $440 million in 1991.
   -- In baseball, after the Chicago White Sox changed their
logo and colors last year, sales increased fivefold from 1990
to $80 million.
   Part of the reason sales are up is because many popular
logo items carry high price tags. Starter Sportswear Inc.,
New Haven, Conn., for example, is doing a booming business in
hooded parkas that sell in stores for $120 to $130 apiece.
   The clothes are also getting free publicity. In recent
weeks, millions of viewers of the American Music Awards saw
the dancers with pop music star Hammer sporting team jackets,
and rap stars such as NWA and Ice T have popularized the
clothes in their videos. The high cost of being fashionable
has also brought crime, though, with kids stealing clothing
they can't afford from stores and other teens.
   In all, the retail market for licensed apparel should
total about $3 billion in 1992, and the segment is growing
four times as fast as the $33 billion sporting-goods industry
in general. Sales jumped 28% in 1991 and are expected to grow
at least 20% this year, says John Horan, editor of the trade
newsletter Sporting Goods Intelligence.
   The striking colors and features of the apparel have
contributed to their appeal. Fast disappearing are the drab
browns and oranges of years past. In their place are blacks,
silvers and teals with snarling sharks and grimacing whales.
"It's more a fashion than a team loyalty," says Kevin Murphy,
merchandise planner for Wilson Sporting Goods Co. in River
Grove, Ill.
   Marketing consultants also believe that the bold clothes,
particularly the black and silver emblems of the Los Angeles
Raiders (football) and Kings (hockey), pack a psychological
punch. "The imagery is very aggressive and very strong," says
Stewart Owen at Landor Associates, an image-consulting firm
in San Francisco. Consumers can "wrap mythology around them
and not have to worry about the real team."
   Indeed, teams with losing records are some of the biggest
winners in licensed apparel. The Charlotte Hornets are near
the bottom of the pro basketball standings -- but with a
flashy teal and purple uniform crafted by men's clothing
designer Alexander Julian, Hornets clothing is the
third-highest seller in the NBA.
   Perhaps the best example of a team that has engineered a
marketing and fashion coup is the San Jose Sharks. Without
much TV coverage for hockey, the organization's executives
saw merchandising as the ticket to higher revenue. And coming
into the Bay Area, which already has four popular pro teams,
San Jose had to come up with an even bigger hit -- something
that would sell throughout the country.
   "Our job was to hit this market with a vengeance," says
Matthew Levine, the Sharks executive vice president of
business operations and a former marketing consultant. "This
is an entertainment business -- not sports. We want to build
national demand for our products."
   Accordingly, five months before San Jose was officially
awarded the franchise in May 1990, team organizers began
market research. A thousand people rated potential logos, and
400 more met in focus groups discussing attributes like
confidence and strength.
   The team discarded names like Stingrays, Seawolves and
Screaming Squid. The most popular choice, the Blades, had too
many gang connotations. But the name Sharks -- one syllable
and brash -- fit the bill. ("The term communicates strength,"
Mr. Levine says. "Instead of saying `I'm cool,' people can
say `I'm shark.'")
   Next came colors. Staffers talked fashion trends with 10
retailers. They combed through L.L. Bean and Neiman Marcus
catalogs -- and found teal. And they combined the teal with
black and silver, the colors of the top-selling apparel from
the Los Angeles Raiders and Kings.
   Finally, the team considered 150 shark designs, selecting
a monster that's jet black and chomping through a hockey
stick. "We didn't want a dolphin-looking shark or a cute
shark," says Mr. Levine. "We wanted something aggressive."
   In 1991 the Sharks accounted for $75 million of the sales
in the NHL, and 80% of that was outside California. Many
stores sold out of Sharks goods at holiday time. The
licensed-apparel unit of SLM International Inc., a New
York-based toy and sporting-goods manufacturer, had a backlog
of thousands of orders, ran out of T-shirts and hats almost
immediately and sold at least $1.5 million of Shark jerseys
alone. San Jose is even developing its shark into a cartoon
character for television, videos and comic books.
   The success is prompting other pro teams to change their
logos or colors to make them more marketable. Next season,
for instance, the Milwaukee Bucks will abandon their dark
green and lime green hues, while the Phoenix Suns will drop
their purple and orange. In the NHL this year, the Hartford
Whalers are changing their logo to a more aggressive whale
and replacing green with smoky blue.
   Consumers' tastes are ranging beyond simple T-shirts with
a silk-screen design. T-shirts and sweatshirts with satin
patches or embroidered crests, going for $28 to $36, beat out
more conventional shirts that cost at least $10 less at J.C.
Penney and other retailers. Sales are also booming for
authentic-looking pro jerseys, which sell for $115, says
Wilson Sporting Goods.
   "It's all going more upscale," says Howard Zunenshine,
co-chief executive officer of SLM International. Adds Mark
McMahon, merchandise manager for athletic footwear and
apparel at Penney: "Improved designs seem to be synonymous
with the growth. It's not just cheap T-shirts anymore."
   But all of the hype has a negative side. Around the
country, police are grappling with thefts of clothing with
team logos, often in brutal attacks. Ronald Cade, of the Los
Angeles Police Department, says the city has seen as many as
10 such crimes a day. While individual thefts are declining,
he says, groups of teens ransacking local retailers for team
jackets and sports shoes are on the rise.
   Twelve-year-old James Nolbert lost his $140 Atlanta Hawks
Starter jacket when a group of six older teens smacked him in
the face and ripped it from his back last year. His mother,
Marie Nolbert, a nurse in Stone Mountain, Ga., won't buy him
any more clothes with team logos.
   "As parents we give kids what they want," she says. "But
we're putting a price tag on their lives."