Northeast Utilities Says Agency Clears
   Its Acquisition of PS New Hampshire
   ----
   By David Stipp
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
But Northeast said the federal Nuclear Regulatory
Commission also must approve the acquisition. The NRC hasn't
yet scheduled a date to consider the proposed purchase, a
Northeast spokesman said.
   Northeast said the FERC approved amendments to its
original ruling on the proposed purchase. The amended
decision "appears to address the most critical concerns
raised last summer about certain conditions the commission
attached to the merger." Those issues concerned the rights of
other utilities to use long-distance transmission lines owned
by Northeast after the purchase. The FERC had ruled that
other utilities could sign priority contracts to use the
lines, which comprise the majority of transmission lines into
New England from other parts of the U.S.
   Northeast Utilities and regulators in Connecticut and New
Hampshire had complained to the FERC that the ruling could
have hurt customers of Northeast and PS New Hampshire by
preventing the two utilities from using the lines themselves
to buy cheaper power from other states.
   The FERC's amended ruling "should allow" Northeast to
charge other utilities for its power costs in excess of
cheaper power it might have purchased when the other
companies are tying up Northeast's lines, the utility said.
The FERC didn't approve all the changes Northeast and the
state regulators wanted, but it "apparently does address the
critical issue of transmission access in a manner that treats
Northeast and PS New Hampshire customers fairly," Northeast
said.
   Northeast's proposed purchase of PS New Hampshire, based
in Manchester, N.H., is a major part of the New Hampshire
utility's bankruptcy-law reorganization. After the purchase,
Northeast will own PS New Hampshire's 35.6% share of the
Seabrook nuclear power plant, bringing its total stake to
about 40%.
   In an unrelated development, an internal report by the NRC
inspector general concluded that in 1990 NRC staff members
lied to Congress about safety documentation at the Seabrook
plant, according to an article in the Boston Globe. NRC
staffers falsely told members of Congress that they knew
Seabrook's manager, Yankee Atomic Electric Co., had reviewed
X-rays of 2,669 critical welds at the plant before the NRC
approved Seabrook's operating license, according to the
Globe.
   An NRC spokesman declined comment, but said the
"commission has directed the staff to do followup work on
issues arising" from the NRC inspector general's report. A
spokesman for the Seabrook plant also declined comment, but
asserted that "our reviews of the plant's weld-related
records have confirmed its safety."
   Separately, Northeast said it plans to name Bernard M.
Fox, its 49-year-old president and chief operating officer,
to the additional post of chief executive officer, effective
July 1, 1993. Mr. Fox will succeed William B. Ellis, 51, who
has agreed to continue as chairman until Aug. 1, 1995, at
which time he plans to retire.