Economy:
   FDIC Faces Tougher Questions as Banks
   Split More Between Winners and Losers
   ----
   By Kenneth H. Bacon
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The disparate fortunes facing banks complicates a major
decision facing the FDIC: How much should it increase the
premiums that banks pay on deposits to sustain the Bank
Insurance Fund. That rate is currently 23 cents per $100 of
domestic deposits. Mr. Taylor has recently hinted that the
rate is likely to go up, perhaps to as high as 30 cents. Many
banks say any increase would restrict their ability to lend
and would hurt the economy. They also question whether an
increase is necessary to meet the continuing costs of bank
failures.
   In remarks to the same meeting, David Mullins, vice
chairman of the Federal Reserve Board, said a sharp increase
in insurance premiums would hurt the banking industry and
perhaps contribute to the failure of weak banks. He called
current premiums an "enormous burden" on banks and said the
Fed is trying to participate in the FDIC's deliberations with
discussions of the impact of a premium boost.
   Before his speech, Mr. Taylor said the FDIC would consider
the premium issue in two weeks or so. Some analysts at the
American Bankers Association and elsewhere fear that the
comparative strength of the healthy part of the industry will
make it easier for the FDIC to seek a large boost effective
June 30 on the Robin Hoodlike theory that profitable banks
are in a good position to supply funds needed to close sick
banks.
   Separately, the Comptroller of the Currency proposed a 27%
to 30% increase in assessments it charges 3,900 nationally
chartered banks to cover the cost of bank examinations. If
the proposal is adopted after a month of public comment, the
higher fees would take effect with the semiannual payment due
July 31.
   Under the proposal, a bank with assets of $100 million
would see its semiannual assessment rise $4,539, to $20,151.
A $1 billion bank would pay $23,426 more, or $103,225, and
the semiannual payment for a $40 billion bank would rise
$521,745 to $2,277,682, according to the comptroller's
figures. The higher assessments will pay the cost of hiring
600 additional field examiners over the next two years to
allow the comptroller's office to examine every bank
annually, as required by a new banking law. Officials in the
comptroller's office estimate the agency won't have to boost
assessments again until 1995, although changes in banking
conditions could move that date.
   In his speech, Mr. Taylor said that commercial bank
profits for 1991 would be slightly higher than last year,
when the FDIC reported profits of $16.6 billion. Looked at in
other terms, the return on bank assets will be about 0.55% to
0.56% for last year, up from 0.50% in 1990, he said.
   But he said that results will vary widely. Of the nation's
50 largest banking companies, for instance, 15 will have a
return on assets of 1% or more -- a strong showing -- while
11 had losses.
   Mr. Taylor said that the FDIC's "view of the future is
kind of a mix of hope and of skepticism, hope that the repair
of the system is under way, but skepticism that our need to
deal with specific problems will diminish in the near term."