November Fall
   Linked by SEC
   To Institutions
   ----
   By Kevin G. Salwen
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The Nov. 15 drop sent Wall Street investors into a panic,
worrying about whether the Friday slide would lead to another
Black Monday. And it also sent them looking for scapegoats.
They found two easy ones in the Republican senator from New
York, who on Nov. 14 had pushed through a provision to force
down credit-card interest rates, and the president who
praised him, saying, "Thank God we have people like Al
fighting for our values every day."
   When the market started to plummet the next day, the
finger pointing began. By 2 p.m., the Dow Jones average had
fallen 50 points, and Wall Street was worried. That concern
turned to panic in the next two hours as prices collapsed. In
Washington, Sen. Christopher Dodd (D., Conn.), a supporter of
the D'Amato amendment, read from news wires about the
market's fall and proclaimed the credit-card bill a culprit.
   Now the SEC, in a letter to Rep. Edward Markey (D.,
Mass.), says the credit-card debacle and the men who pushed
it appear to have had nothing to do with the market's
collapse. Rather, it was esoteric market-trading strategies
by institutional investors trying to lock in profits and to
protect against losses.
   Indeed, the SEC argues that investors shouldn't try to
connect market moves with "triggering events." The report
reminds market watchers that the October 1989 plunge was
blamed on the collapse of an effort to acquire UAL Corp. And
it adds that observers explained last November's 3.93% slide
with, in addition to the credit-card bill, such disparate
events as rumors of a new Soviet coup, a report on the
decline of U.S. industrial production and a decline in
biotechnology stocks.
   SEC studies show, instead, "that most market swings are
better understood in the context of longer-term institutional
investment outlooks, as well as the short-term effects of
professional and speculative trading strategies."
   In last year's slide, like the other drops, "it was
discovered that some firms may have engaged in dynamic
hedging {in options and futures}," the latest report said.
Specifically, the report said institutional investors used
"over-the-counter puts." Like listed options, OTC puts give
the owner the right to sell underlying stocks at a specified
time and price. Unlike other options, they are often
customized to match a large investor's needs to hedge a
specific broad basket of stocks.
   Saying its report was preliminary, the SEC wasn't more
specific in how these products were used. But the products
are designed to work similarly to "portfolio insurance," a
failed hedging product that many institutional investors
bought prior to the 1987 crash as a way to "guarantee"
against drops in their portfolios. Studies of the 1987 crash
have said that portfolio insurance helped ignite the crash by
forcing selling by hordes of institutions at the same time.
   The report, generated by the agency's market-regulation
division, which is led by former professional trader William
Heyman, contends that pension funds and mutual funds appear
to have "grown concerned over protecting year-to-date gains
in their stock portfolios." The Dow Jones industrial average
had risen nearly 600 points, or about 25%, from its 1991 low
on Jan. 9 to mid-October. The indicator remained above 3000
for the next month, until the 120-point collapse.
   The most recent plunge, the SEC shows, wasn't dissimilar
to the 1987 and 1989 drops, though it was less steep than
those 508-point and 180-point tumbles. On both of those
occasions, charts indicate, yearlong climbs in stock prices
had pushed indexes to stratospheric levels that often make
investors uncomfortable.
   Rep. Markey, who heads the House Telecommunications and
Finance Subcommittee, said the report raises questions over
whether future drops could be propelled by institutional
hedging strategies. He suggested that the SEC take a harder
look at the use of such products, though he stopped short of
calling for limits to their use.
   The agency also said it was too early to determine whether
the November decline was aided by the expiration that
afternoon of options and futures contracts. Noting that the
expirations tend to increase volatility in those markets that
spills over in the stock market, the SEC has been pressing
the American Stock Exchange and Chicago Board Options
Exchange to shift the expiration of contracts to the morning
from the afternoon.