Marketing  Media:
   MGM-Pathe Aides
   Assume Control
   Of Parent Firm
   ----
   By Richard Turner
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
As part of the action, MGM-Pathe took control of Pathe's
Wilshire Blvd. offices yesterday and began poring over
financial records which the unit hadn't had access to. All 11
Parretti-appointed officers were suspended from "authority,"
while Mr. Parretti was suspended without pay.
   "This takeover permits the two companies to go forward in
a more cohesive manner," said Mr. Stanfill in an interview.
   Recent relations have been far from cohesive: Pathe, a
public company, had been the vehicle for Mr. Parretti to wage
his war to keep control of MGM-Pathe. But with the naming of
Messrs. Stanfill, Ladd and Meeker, Mr. Parretti loses his
beachhead, and a unit of state-owned French bank Credit
Lyonnais S.A., which controls MGM-Pathe, takes charge. Some
observers wondered if Mr. Parretti would keep up his legal
fight, particularly given his problems with the law in Italy,
where he was jailed in late December on tax evasion charges.
   Mr. Parretti is a defendant in a lawsuit filed by the bank
in Delaware Chancery Court, seeking to oust him from the
Pathe board. He lost a similar suit in December over control
of MGM-Pathe in a decision so sternly worded by Chancellor
William P. Allen that observers wonder how Mr. Parretti could
prevail in the other action.
   Oddly, a lender liability lawsuit filed in state court in
Los Angeles against the bank by Mr. Parretti and Mr.
Parretti's public relations team lists Pathe as the
plaintiff. It's not known what will become of the suit. The
bank had been providing minimal funding to Pathe, but it also
wasn't known where the money to pay attorneys had been coming
from, or if the bank had been in the curious position of
funding lawsuits against itself.
   Mr. Meeker said he didn't know how Pathe was paying its
legal bills. "Ask me in a week," he said, adding that his
team was seeking to begin making timely filings with the
Securities  Exchange Commission and examine oustanding
litigation to make the company "clean as a whistle."
   Last month Mr. Stanfill joined Mr. Ladd as co-chairman and
co-chief executive of MGM-Pathe and promised to revive the
ailing studio.