America's Infant Mortality Problem: Parents
   ----
   By Nicholas Eberstadt
The latest initiative to revitalize progress against
infant mortality was unveiled last year by the Bush
administration. Known as the Healthy Start Program, it
proposes to halve infant mortality over the next five years
in selected localities by "wrapping pregnant women and babies
in a blanket of care" fashioned from the "coordination of
federal, state, local, and private programs."
   Unfortunately, there is little reason to suppose that this
latest effort will be any more successful than its
predecessors. For almost a generation, in fact, Washington's
infant mortality "strategy" has been a plan for battle in a
bygone world. By and large, our public health policies
presume that high infant mortality levels bespeak lack of
household income or medical services -- quantities a
government might supply. In modern America, however, material
poverty and inadequate health care are hardly the only
threats to infant survival -- and may not be the major ones.
   The economic data cannot explain why some poorer groups of
Americans have lower infant-mortality rates than some richer
groups. By the Census Bureau's most recent estimates, for
example, Asians and Pacific Islanders have a higher poverty
rate than U.S. whites, yet their infant mortality rate,
according to the Centers for Disease Control (CDC), is
substantially lower. By the same token, infant mortality
rates for Hispanic Americans and non-Hispanic whites are
reportedly just about the same, even though the poverty rate
for Hispanic children is more than twice as high.
   Nor can economic factors account for differences in infant
mortality rates between U.S. blacks and residents of Puerto
Rico. By a wide variety of measures, it is U.S. blacks who
are more affluent. Their educational attainment is higher;
their unemployment rates are markedly lower; their per-capita
income is more than 50% higher. But infant mortality in 1988
was two-fifths higher for blacks than for babies born in
Puerto Rico. Clearly, traditional notions of poverty do not
explain what is happening in America today.
   Inadequate medical care is another less than fully
satisfactory explanation for the problem. In Western
societies, the great majority of infant deaths occur within
days of birth; the lower the baby's birthweight, the greater
the risk. At any given high-risk birthweight, however,
perinatal survival chances in the 1980s were substantially
better in the U.S. than in Norway or Japan -- frontrunners in
the infant mortality race. This advantage showed up for
blacks as well as whites. Since medical intervention plays a
decisive role in the survival of low-birthweight babies,
these figures strongly suggest that U.S. infant health
services on the whole are very good and broadly available to
those in need.
   America's infant mortality problem has less to do with the
survival chances of any low-birthweight baby than with the
unusually large numbers of infants born into high-risk
categories. Among blacks, the incidence of low birthweight
(defined as 5.5 pounds or less at delivery) is not only
higher than that of virtually any other Western population
but also twice as high as that of U.S. whites. Yet the
incidence among U.S. whites is high as well -- nearly twice
that of Norway, for example. When one considers that infant
mortality rates are roughly 20 times higher for
low-birthweight babies than for those above 5.5 pounds, the
significance of America's disposition toward low birthweight
becomes deadly clear.
   Why does America produce so many low-birthweight babies?
The answer may have much to do with the behavior of
parents-to-be. Evidence suggests that the attitudes,
practices and life styles of many American parents --
including many who are neither poor nor poorly educated --
are exposing U.S. babies to unfamiliar and unnecessary
hazards.
   A 1989 CDC study underscores this point. According to the
CDC's survey of nearly 8,000 mothers, poorer white women had
the same incidence of low birthweight as more affluent ones.
On the other hand, white babies described as "unwanted or
mistimed" had a substantially greater risk of low birthweight
than those described as "wanted at conception."
   CDC data show that one of the maternal characteristics
most strongly associated with low birthweight is
out-of-wedlock childbearing. Regardless of a mother's race or
age, her child is more likely to be low birthweight if
illegitimate. And regardless of a mother's race or age,
infant mortality is higher for out-of-wedlock births. (CDC
data tend to ignore the important role fathers play in
infants' well-being.)
   It has long been argued that the correspondence between
illegitimacy and higher infant mortality reflects only the
social disadvantages characteristic of unwed mothers. But
illegitimacy has been going "mainstream": Of the more than
one million babies born out of wedlock each year, more than
half are to white mothers, and more are to mothers 25 or
older than to teen-agers. More than a quarter of the white
single mothers in their early 30s now have at least some
college education.
   Other data from the CDC are even more instructive.
According to an eight-state pilot study, infant mortality
rates were higher for unmarried mothers who were college
graduates than for married grade-school dropouts. This result
showed up for both whites and blacks.
   Why should this be? Part of the answer may be suggested by
new data from Missouri on risky behavior during pregnancy. In
this study of 60,000 births, there was a strong inverse
relation between a mother's years of schooling and her
propensity to smoke during pregnancy. Even so, unwed college
graduates, irrespective of race, were more likely to smoke
during pregnancy than the average married woman -- even
though that "average" woman had almost an even chance of
being a high school drop-out.
   Unwed mothers, of course, are not the only parents to
engage in practices prejudicial to infant health, nor are
nicotine and "tar" the only hazardous substances to which a
fetus can be exposed. Illegal drug use during pregnancy can
hurt a fetus, although data on the prevalence of such
practices are hard to come by. It is widely supposed that
such behavior is characteristic mainly of impoverished, inner
city, minority populations. But some recent data from Rhode
Island suggest otherwise.
   At two intervals in late 1989, the Rhode Island Department
of Health tested women in labor for illicit drugs: cocaine,
marijuana, opiates, amphetamines. The sample was
representative of the state's entire population. Overall, 7
1/2% of the mothers tested positive for one or more of these
drugs. Mothers who were black, young or poor were more likely
to test positive. But what is perhaps most alarming were the
rates reported for groups usually considered low risk. Fully
7% of the white mothers tested positive. Women 25 years of
age or older recorded a similar rate. And 6.6% of the mothers
not classed as "poverty status" tested positive.
   Such behavior by mothers-to-be is all too characteristic
of the infant mortality problem in modern America. And
unfortunately, the traditional tools of social policy are not
easily applied against dangerous parental behavior. Despite
ever greater schooling for the population at large, the
proportion of babies receiving no prenatal care, or care
delayed until the last trimester of pregnancy, is slightly
higher today than it was in the mid-1970s. Education can be
highly effective when lack of knowledge is a constraint; it
fares less well when the problem is a lack of motivation.
   Key elements in the social policy and public health
communities appear determined not to confront this problem --
or even to acknowledge its existence.
   One may read the Ford Foundation's "The Common Good," a
major 1989 study largely given over to recommendations on the
welfare and future of America's children, without once
encountering the notion of parental responsibility. The
Department of Health and Human Services' 700-page 1991 policy
document entitled "Healthy People 2000" manages to omit any
mention of the correlation between low birthweight and
illegitimacy. And in 1990, a testy editorial note in the
CDC's Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Review, a leading public
health periodical, scolded that "marital status confers
neither risks nor protection to the infant," even though the
CDC's own data contradicted the assertion.
   Medical advances and increased health expenditures promise
the continuation of progress against U.S. infant mortality.
Unless the problem of hazardous parental behavior is
controlled, however, the infant mortality rate is likely to
remain needlessly high. It may well be that our government
and legal system, which prize liberty, are not particularly
suited to enforce model behavior upon negligent
parents-to-be. But it is not too much to ask our leaders and
health specialists to speak plainly about what it is that
really ails our nation's babies.
   ---
   Mr. Eberstadt is a researcher at Harvard's Center for
Population and Development Studies and the American
Enterprise Institute. He is writing a book on the U.S. infant
mortality problem.