Short Interest
   On Big Board
   Declines 7%
   ---
   Amex Down 3% in Month;
   RJR Nabisco's Figure
   Was Off Substantially
   ----
   By Robert J. Brennan
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The short interest in RJR Nabisco Holdings Inc. dropped
substantially, to about five million shares from 30.4 million
at the mid-December trading month. The company has completed
a swap offer of outstanding cumulative preferred shares for
new common shares; arbitragers had traded on price
discrepancies ahead of completion of the deal. RJR short
interest had dominated the Big Board list in recent months.
   Similarly, Chemical Banking Corp. saw a previously high
short interest position dwindle. It completed its stock-swap
merger with Manufacturers Hanover Corp. on Jan. 1.
Arbitragers had been shorting Chemical and buying Manny
Hanny, pending the merger, playing market price spreads of
the merger partners against the announced merger prices.
Chemical Banking short interest dropped to 3.2 million shares
from 7.7 million.
   BankAmerica, on the other hand, maintained a short
interest level of 10.7 million shares, about the same as the
month before. It hasn't yet completed its merger with
Security Pacific Corp. Citicorp, the continuing subject of
speculation about its financial health, led the short
interest list with 14.4 million shares, up from 12.9 million
at mid-December.
   Blockbuster Entertainment Co., also among perennial
short-interest leaders, was down marginally, to 13.4 million
shares from nearly 14 million a month before.
   Telefonica de Espana, which recently has seen a sharp
increase in short interest in its American depositary
receipts, was steady at mid-January at 9.4 million ADRs. The
ADRs each represent three common shares in Spain. The
company's shares have been rising on a strong outlook for
Spain's telecommunications market, and many arbs also have
been playing for price spreads between the company's shares
in the home market and the ADRs in the U.S.
   Unisys Corp. short interest remained high at 11.9 million
shares, up from 11.3 million. The computer company in
November canceled the planned public offering of its defense
business, citing wavering market conditions and the uncertain
outlook for Pentagon spending levels.
   New York exchange short interest fell at the Jan. 15
settlement date to 729,399,078 shares from 784,381,911 at
mid-December. On the Amex, short interest fell to 65,006,504
shares from an adjusted 66,943,322 shares. The month included
the 21 trading days through Jan. 8.
   At mid-January 1991, short volume was 785,333,129 shares
on the Big Board.
   Traders who sell short borrow stock and sell it, betting
that the stock's price will decline and that they can buy the
shares back later at a lower price for return to the lender.
   Short interest is the number of shares that haven't yet
been purchased for return to lenders. Although a substantial
short position reflects heavy speculation that a stock's
price will decline, some investors consider an increase in
short interest bullish because the borrowed shares eventually
must be bought back.
   Fluctuation in short interest of certain stocks also may
be caused partly by arbitraging. The figures occasionally
include incomplete transactions in restricted stock.
   The level of negative sentiment measured by the Big Board
short interest ratio was reduced to 3.46 from mid-December's
4.20. The ratio is the number of trading days at the
exchange's average daily trading volume that would be
required to convert the total short interest position.
Average daily New York exchange volume for the 21 trading
days was 210,724,285 shares. Some analysts suggest, however,
that the ratio has weakened in value as an indicator because
options and other products can be used to hedge short
positions.
   The following tables show the Big Board and Amex issues in
which a short interest position of at least 100,000 shares
existed at mid-January or in which the short position had
changed by at least 50,000 shares since mid-December (see
accompanying tables -- WSJ Dec. 22, 1992).