Slowing Down:
   Japan's Car Makers
   Now See Advantages
   In Restraining Growth
   ---
   Honda Reduces Its Hiring,
   Curtails Plant Building;
   Toyota Scuttles a Pickup
   ---
   Worries About Protectionism
   ----
   By Paul Ingrassia and Clay Chandler
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
President Bush is leading the chairmen of Detroit's Big
Three car companies to Tokyo this week, where on Thursday
they will sit down with the chairmen of Japan's five largest
auto makers to admit defeat and, at the same time, apply a
little protectionist pressure. But even before the Tokyo
trip, Japan's explosive automotive-industry growth was
starting to slow down.
   Of course, Japanese auto makers will continue to grow at a
rate sure to be the envy of a downsizing Detroit. The slower
growth will undoubtedly offer a short respite to the
beleaguered Big Three, though the less-intense competition
could cause American car buyers considerable expense.
   "Adjusting to slower growth is the biggest issue for the
Japanese auto industry in the 1990s," says Shoichiro
Irimajiri, executive vice president of Honda. "The Japanese
industry hasn't faced this problem since World War II. But
the top management of every car company is thinking about it
now."
   That is certainly the case at Nissan Motor Co., where
Atsushi Muramatsu, executive vice president for finance,
declares: "This is a time for consolidation, not for
expansion."
   In increasingly xenophobic Detroit, some auto executives
regard such statements as disingenuous, designed to avert
protectionism in America and Europe without conceding much of
anything. Such skeptics deride the Japanese tactics as "talk
and ship," -- talking slowdown while shipping as usual.
   But signs of slower growth do seem to go beyond mere talk.
They include:
   -- For each of the past five years, Honda has hired on
average 436 Japanese college graduates, most of them
engineers. New hires from next year's crop will total 180.
And after Honda begins output at a new factory in England
next fall, it won't build any new assembly plants in Europe,
the U.S. or Japan until late in this decade.
   -- By 1993, Japanese auto makers will have 10 car-assembly
plants in the U.S. (some of them joint ventures with the Big
Three), all built within the past decade. No one expects the
Japanese to duplicate that feat over the next 10 years. It is
quite possible that Japan won't add any new U.S. plants.
   -- Some of Japan's smaller car companies are hurting. The
worst off is Isuzu Motors Ltd. It recently reported a net
loss of 47.28 billion yen ($278.2 million) for the fiscal
year that ended Oct. 31, and now seeks help from Detroit.
General Motors Corp., which owns 37% of Isuzu, recently
agreed to put two executives in senior positions at Isuzu,
and also to help Isuzu increase exports of engines and
transmissions to GM operations in Europe and the U.S. Isuzu
nevertheless expects to sustain losses this year as well.
   Political pressures are providing some of the impetus for
the Japanese auto makers to let up on the accelerator. They
know very well that automobiles and auto components
constitute about three-fourths of the U.S. trade deficit with
Japan (though much of the importing of cars and parts is done
by the Big Three). Thanks to their wide acceptance by
American consumers, Japanese cars accounted for 31% of the
U.S. market last year, a record, and up from less than 20% in
1980.
   Now "the Japanese industry, especially Toyota, is paranoid
that its success at Detroit's great expense will incite
protectionism," declares John Casesa, automotive analyst at
Wertheim Schroder & Co. in New York. So months before
President Bush turned his Tokyo trip into a trade mission,
Toyota Motor Corp. had started to react.
   Last year, the company put on hold its plan to invade
Detroit's most profitable market niche with a full-size
pickup truck for the U.S. market. Toyota also let lapse an
option to buy a big piece of land outside Detroit where it
was going to build a new research center. And at a press
conference in Detroit last fall, an executive of Toyota's
U.S. sales arm predicted that the Big Three would gain market
share in 1992.
   Certain of Toyota's recent actions seem designed to make
that prediction come true. The company, for instance, has
aggressively raised prices on some of its vehicles. When
Toyota launched a new version of the Camry, last fall, it
raised the base sticker price a full 11.5%, to $14,368. The
increase was so big that archrival Nissan uses this line in
an ad for its Stanza model: "We can see by the look on your
face that you've priced the new Camry."
   Honda launched a new version of its Civic compact last
fall, and raised the price of its lowest-priced model by
11.2%. And Mitsubishi Motors Corp. is raising the base price
of its new Montero sport-utility vehicle 13.5% over the
previous model. "We're going upscale," a company official
says.
   The strategy reflected by the price increases, Mr. Casesa
says, is a replay of that the Japanese used in the early
1980s. Faced with strict import quotas that limited their
market share, they raised prices and used profits to develop
more luxurious cars and build U.S. factories. One big
difference: no new factories this time.
   The Big Three last time matched the Japanese price
increases, rather than try to increase market share with
lower prices. The quotas consequently helped Detroit only in
the short term.
   The Japanese slowdown is a relative thing. Toyota, far
from cutting its assembly capacity, as GM is doing in
dramatic fashion, plans to increase its annual capacity by
700,000 vehicles over the next three years. Toyota is
building a plant in England, doubling the size of its
Kentucky factory, adding a new plant in southern Japan and
planning smaller facilities in Turkey, Pakistan and Colombia.
   But even this increase isn't exactly what it seems. Faced
with a shortage of workers and a sluggish market in Japan,
Toyota is planning to slow the pace of production at home. In
1990, the typical Toyota employee worked 2,300 hours -- more
than 44 hours a week. The typical Big Three employee worked
about 2,050 hours.
   Now, under pressure from the company union, Toyota
officials have pledged to reduce individual work schedules to
an average of 2,000 hours by next year. That will cut the
company's domestic production -- which reached 4.16 million
vehicles in 1990 -- by roughly 500,000 cars and trucks
annually, enough to substantially offset Toyota's plant
expansion overseas.
   Toyota's experience demonstrates that the pressures on
Japan's car companies transcend international politics. While
Japan's economy is robust by U.S. standards, its growth rate
has slowed sharply -- and so have vehicle sales. Between 1988
and 1990, car sales in Japan posted annual double-digit
gains, an unheard-of increase in a mature market. Last year,
however, car sales dropped 6.5%, the Japanese Automobile
Dealers Association reported yesterday.
   What's more, the U.S. recession is hurting Japan's major
export market. While Japanese car companies gained market
share last year, their total sales declined.
   Japan's car companies are withstanding recession far
better than the loss-plagued Big Three are doing, thanks to
their global reach and to their lean, efficient production
systems. But the Japanese aren't immune to economic forces
either. Toyota expects its pretax earnings to plunge 30% in
the fiscal year that ends June 30. Nissan recently posted a
48% drop in net earnings for the six months that ended Sept.
30. Thus, Japan's No. 2 auto maker will have severely
depressed profit for two consecutive years.
   As a result, Nissan, like Honda, is sharply cutting its
hiring in Japan. The company will hire just 2,550 new
employees in its home market this year, one-third fewer than
it hired in 1991, and the biggest one-year decline in hiring
in Nissan's history. "We're facing tough times," says company
spokesman Masamichi Ozawa. "It has made us very conservative
in our hiring practices."
   Honda's conservatism extends as well to capital spending.
Two years ago, the company's outlays for plants, equipment
and new-product development peaked at 330 billion yen ($2.58
billion). But capital spending for the year ending March 31
will be some 30% lower; spending for next year will be flat.
   The big reason: Honda, for the first time in a decade,
isn't building any new plants. And while the company
continues to pour money into new-product development, Honda
executives recently have hinted that they might let some
models remain on the market more than four years before
giving them a complete overhaul. Extending the standard
four-year product cycle would produce major savings.
   "Honda is way out in front in realizing the implications
of the new situation," says Neal Doying, auto analyst at
Baring Securities (Japan) Ltd. "The other Japanese car makers
will have to start thinking that way, too."
   Especially the smaller companies. Fuji Heavy Industries
Inc., which makes the Subaru, ran into trouble two years ago,
and was bailed out by its biggest shareholder -- Nissan,
which dispatched an executive to run Fuji, and took other
measures to help out.
   Now Isuzu is Japan's most troubled auto maker, and it
shares a common problem with Fuji. The two companies are
equal partners in an Indiana assembly plant that is operating
at about half-capacity. The factory is showing losses, and
that won't change unless the two companies can sharply expand
sales in the U.S.
   Analysts say that despite everything, the long-term
outlook for Japanese dominance of the world-wide auto
business hasn't changed. But political, economic and
competitive pressures still are likely to leave scars on
companies once regarded as virtually invulnerable.
   "In the 1980s, the Japanese made it look easy," says
Wertheim Schroder's Mr. Casesa. "They won't be able to do
that in the 1990s."