OTC Focus:
   Nasdaq Index Falls 2.45 Points to 621.83
   Amid Uncertainty on Economy, Profits
   ----
   By Anne Newman and Dave Pettit
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
Analysts expect small-stock profits to jump 32% in the
first quarter, far outpacing an expected 8% climb in the
earnings of larger, so-called "midcap" shares and a 7.5% gain
in profits among the largest publicly traded companies,
according to a just-released study by Prudential Securities
Inc. analyst Claudia Mott. She analyzed estimates provided to
the Institutional Brokers Estimate System for 627 smaller
companies with market values of about $750 million or less
and with at least two analysts following each company. She
and analyst Melissa Brown also reviewed the IBES estimates
for companies generally in the SP MidCap Index and about
1,200 of the market's largest stocks, with an average market
value of $3.1 billion.
   Ms. Mott cautioned that analysts' expectations are often
over-inflated and said she expects a smaller, 15% to 20%
first-quarter rise in small-stock profits. Last quarter, for
example, analysts expected a 25% jump in small-stock profits;
earnings actually rose 14%. Growth in profits among smaller,
domestic companies should outpace gains at larger companies,
many of which are more vulnerable to slowdowns in sales from
Japan and Europe, Ms.Mott said.
   Analysts expect a sharp turnaround in profits for small
companies in basic industries such as paper and forest
products makers, mining and manufacturing. "I'd put money on
the fact that they'll be up, but I doubt they'll up 62%," she
said, referring to the huge growth estimated by analysts.
Similarly, she expects a robust climb in earnings among
"consumer cyclical" companies such as makers of auto parts,
homes and furniture; analysts estimate an 83.4% jump in that
group.
   Growth among smaller financial-service companies is likely
to slow after profits more than doubled in the last quarter,
she cautioned. Analysts estimate a 27.7% climb in earnings
among smaller financial companies. A disappointment in
earnings in that group could weigh on the Nasdaq index, which
includes scores of small regional banks and thrifts.
   Intel dropped 1 3/4 to 63 1/4. This week's Barron's
magazine profiles the company and the increasing competition
that it faces in the microchip business.
   BioSpecifics Technologies slumped 5 1/2 to 24 1/2
following a separate Barron's article saying the company may
lose a contract with German chemical maker BASF. The pact
accounted for 87% of its revenue in the 1990 first nine
months.
   National Savings Bank of Albany jumped 4 3/4 to 30 1/4
after the company received an unsolicited merger proposal
from TrustCo Bank Corp. National Savings Bank said its board
probably will reject the plan. Shares of TrustCo, of
Schenectady, N.Y., closed unchanged at 39.
   Quidel soared 1 7/8 to 7 1/8. Ladenburg Thalmann analyst
Louis Ehrenkrantz made positive comments about the stock on
Friday's edition of Public Broadcasting System's "Nightly
Business Report." Mr. Ehrenkrantz cited the company's receipt
last week of Food and Drug Administration approval to market
a device to be used in detecting ovulation.
   EnClean slipped 2 to 14. Several analysts reduced earnings
estimates, citing concerns that recent heavy rainfall in the
Southeast will hamper its site remediation business.
   Tech Data advanced 1 1/8 to 38. Fourth-quarter profit rose
to $4.1 million, or 52 cents a share, from $2.2 million, or
35 cents a share, a year ago.
   Simtek Corp. gained 1 1/4 to 4 1/2. The Colorado Springs,
Colo., company received a U.S. patent covering a memory cell
technology and the method it uses to make random access
memory cells.
   Piedmont Management gained 7/8 to 12 5/8 after the New
York financial services concern's board approved a plan to
combine the company's two classes of stock and give all
holders equal voting power.
   Magna International advanced 7/8 to 25 3/8. A Wertheim
Schroder  Co. analyst was said to have initiated coverage of
the car-parts maker's stock with a "buy" recommendation, Dow
Jones Professional Investor Report said.
   Score Board dropped 2 1/2 to 37 1/4 despite the
collector-card maker's report that earnings for the fiscal
year ended Jan. 31 jumped to $1.25 a share from 61 cents a
share a year ago.