Turkey's Growth Does Not Require Pain
   ----
   by Alan Reynolds
A monetary cure for Turkey's inflation would make both
privatization and the balancing of Turkey's budget deficit
(which amounts to about 12% of gross domestic product) easy
to achieve. In the absence of such a cure, private capital
markets cannot accommodate the shares of privatized firms
because Turkish citizens will continue to turn to real
estate, gold and foreign currencies to protect themselves
from inflation. And the budget cannot be tamed without a
monetary fix, because high inflation undermines the tax
system, while the government is forced to finance domestic
debts at budget-busting interest rates.
   Reducing inflation should precede wholesale privatization,
not be held hostage to it. Low inflation means the prospect
of future earnings would be discounted at a much lower
interest rate. That would make the stock market soar,
allowing at least some of the assets of state enterprises to
be spun off to domestic and foreign portfolio investors. A
higher market value on state enterprises would also make
privatization irresistibly attractive to politicians of every
stripe.
   Turkey's new government is therefore not necessarily
unwise to suggest that privatization of unprofitable state
enterprises be postponed until they can be restructured and
sold off at a better price on a stronger Turkish stock
market, rather than unloaded at distress sale prices to
foreign corporations.
   The previous government of Turgut Ozal did many wonderful
things, but privatization was not one of them. The Ozal
government sold a couple of profitable state enterprises to
foreign companies, but selling profitable firms obviously had
no impact at all on government borrowing. Other state
enterprises sold shares amounting to a tiny fraction of the
company's value, which did not change management or anything
else.
   By contrast, the new regime proposes to make the
money-losing state enterprises autonomous. The hope of
depoliticizing state enterprises is to let the managers take
the heat for cost-cutting decisions (such as layoffs, plant
closings or buying materials from cheaper foreign sources)
that otherwise would be blamed on politicians.
   One legitimate worry about Turkey's new coalition is that
it has made a lot of costly promises, which can be achieved
only if the economy provides attractive real, after-tax
returns to both capital and labor, and thus enjoys a long
period of strong growth. At 7% economic growth a year, the
economy would double in size in less than a decade, and so
would real government revenues. But such rapid growth is
unlikely without a serious plan to get and keep inflation
down.
   Turkey almost became another supply-side "miracle" when it
sharply reduced tax rates and trade barriers in 1983-84.
Income tax rates were slashed across the board, dropping to a
range of 25%-50% from 41%-68%. That made it politically
feasible to introduce a 10% value-added tax to replace the
existing and inefficient sales taxes. Economic growth
averaged 6% from 1984 to 1990, compared with less than 1.8%
in the previous six years. However, the supply-side
economists also preached the importance of a sound, stable
currency to keep inflation down. Turkey has not yet gotten
this part of the message at all.
   The central bank is obliged by law to finance up to 15% of
the budget, and also permitted to print money to cover the
deficits of state enterprises. This absence of an independent
central bank makes it impossible to separate monetary from
fiscal policy, depriving the government of the most potent
tool for ending inflation. Because public borrowing soon
became associated with a high probability of inflationary
monetary policy, fostering the flight of capital into foreign
currencies, it became impossible to fund legitimate public
borrowing in a responsible manner. Knowledge that the central
bank will bail them out also takes pressure off the state
enterprises to control costs.
   By itself, neither privatization nor a balanced budget can
stop Turkey's bad habit of devaluing the currency to
accommodate inflation and then printing money to finance the
formidable interest expense that the resulting inflation
imposes on the government budget. By repealing the statutory
requirement that the central bank fund government and state
enterprise deficits, it would become possible to use monetary
policy to solve both monetary and fiscal problems. For
example, Turkey might emulate the policy adopted by Mexico,
slowing the rate of currency depreciation from, say, two lira
per dollar per day toward zero over a period of three or four
years.
   High nominal wage increases embodied in current two-year
labor contracts would have to be renegotiated, perhaps by
offering some cost-of-living adjustment instead. Downward
pressure on pricing behavior could be reinforced by
additional trade liberalization and a reduced VAT, which also
follows the Mexican example. Interest rates would soon fall
with the reduced exchange-rate risk and declining inflation.
The reduced cost of domestic debt service, for both the
government and the state enterprises, would probably suffice
to completely eliminate the budget deficit. Turkish exporters
might balk at the competitive discipline on their price
increases, but not if they reflect on what the sinking lira
has done to their costs of labor, credit and imported
machines and materials.
   It is hardly possible to exaggerate the economic potential
and strategic importance of Turkey. As a country that
successfully managed the transition from a regimented
quasi-socialist system to a remarkably energetic and
entrepreneurial economy in very few years, Turkey is also a
vital role model for the Commonwealth of Independent States,
and for the neighboring Islamic countries, which have yet to
begin the transition to democracy and free enterprise. Rather
than harping on the few remaining problems, the West should
be helping with the solutions.
   ---
   Mr. Reynolds, director of economic research at the Hudson
Institute, is working on a study of the future of Turkey for
the Turkish Economic Development Foundation.