Who's News:
   First Chicago's Venture Capital Head,
   Canning, Will Set Up His Own Firm
   ----
   By George Anders
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
A First Chicago spokeswoman categorized Mr. Canning's
departure as "amicable," and said that the bank has agreed to
invest as much as $125 million in Madison Dearborn's fund.
Mr. Canning will keep offices at First Chicago's
headquarters, she said. He also will continue to oversee
First Chicago's $950 million of existing venture capital and
buy-out investments, though he will do so as a hired outsider
instead of as a bank employee.
   Since July 1980, the bank's venture capital unit has
invested $1.65 billion, which has grown to a value of about
$3.2 billion as of Sept. 30. Of that total value, about $1
billion has been fully collected in cash; the rest consists
of market values of publicly traded stocks or private
valuations. Overall, First Chicago calculates, its venture
capital unit has yielded annual returns of 29.6%.
   In recent years, Mr. Canning's 14-person department has
contributed about $100 million a year to First Chicago's
operating revenue, the bank spokeswoman said. That's about 5%
of overall operating revenue at the 17,500-employee bank.
   Potential regulatory changes may make it tough, however,
for venture capital units to keep operating so aggressively
within banks, Mr. Canning said. As a result, he said, both he
and First Chicago's top management in recent months began
thinking about ways to split his operation from the bank
itself.
   Most venture capital investing by banks has been done
under provisions of the Small Business Investment Company
Act, which exempts banks from usual restrictions against
owning more than 5% of an industrial company. Those SBIC
rules have been interpreted liberally enough to allow banks
to buy businesses with as much as $1 billion a year in sales.
Recently, though, Washington rulemakers have begun steps to
tighten up SBIC rules considerably.
   "With this regulation pinching in on everyone," Mr.
Canning said, setting up his own new firm "was the one way to
keep our group together." Both Mr. Canning and First Chicago
expect the separation to be completed between Sept. 30 and
Dec. 31 of this year.
   In setting out on his own, Mr. Canning has picked a
difficult time to raise money from outside investors. The
buy-out business has cooled from its late 1980s peak, and
venture capital has lost some of its luster. While Mr.
Canning conceded that large buy-outs have become much harder
to complete, he argued that smaller buy-outs -- in which he
and his team specialize -- are still plentiful.
   Most of the First Chicago venture group's investments have
been in companies with a market capitalization of $250
million or less, such as the 1988 buy-out of Health
Management Associates Inc., which recently was taken public
at more than 10 times the price that First Chicago paid for
its stake. The venture capital unit also has been a large
investor in funds raised by other leveraged buy-out groups,
including Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co., Clayton & Dubilier
and Merrill Lynch Capital Partners, a unit of Merrill Lynch &
Co.
   With the breakaway of Madison Dearborn, First Chicago
observed that it expects to save money on the salaries for
Mr. Canning's group. Although those amounts aren't publicly
disclosed, neither Mr. Canning nor the bank spokeswoman tried
to dispel persistent rumors that Mr. Canning and at least one
or two of his aides earn more than $1 million a year in
salary and bonuses -- putting them ahead of First Chicago's
president and chairman.