Computers:
   Advanced Micro
   Wins a Round
   In Intel Feud
   ----
   By Stephen Kreider Yoder
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
While the dollar award fell below many analysts'
expectations and far short of the $2.3 billion Advanced Micro
wanted, the ruling constituted a partial victory for Advanced
Micro, or AMD, because it wanted the chip rights to help it
win other courtbattles with Intel and ease the legal worries
of potential customers over the use of current and future AMD
clones. Intel has charged, in a case scheduled to go to court
next month, that AMD's clones violate Intel copyrights.
   "Justice has been done," W.J. Sanders III, chairman of
Advanced Micro, said in a statement.
   Retired Judge J. Barton Phelps, the arbitrator in the
case, stopped short of granting AMD all of Intel's 386
technologies. Instead, he awarded AMD a clear title to
whatever technologies are already built in to its
reverse-engineered clone of Intel's chip. The award must be
approved by California Superior Court.
   Andrew S. Grove, Intel's chief executive officer,
countered that the ruling isn't a victory for AMD at all,
because AMD got few of the damages it wanted and must still
face Intel in court in cases that affect AMD's ability to
clone future generations of chips. "It's a non-event," Mr.
Grove said. "The remarkable thing is how little real impact
this decision will have on either company."
   Mr. Grove criticized the award, saying the arbitrator had
exceeded his powers in his decision, adding that Intel will
appeal if the Superior Court approves the award of the 386
rights. "The arbitrator decided to sprinkle holy water on
{AMD's chips}, saying they are now ready to go to heaven,"
said Mr. Grove. The award, including the damages, "is largely
outside his jurisdiction," he said.
   The award is the latest wrinkle in the bitter legal
rivalry between the two chip makers. They have been sparring
for years in courts and markets, with AMD most recently
grabbing market share from Intel with a clone of Intel's
popular 386 chip while Intel tries to defend its dominance
over the $3.3 billion microprocessor market. Intel-designed
chips are the most popular brains of personal computers.
   The decision by Judge Phelps caps a five-year spat that
began in 1987 when AMD accused Intel of reneging on an
agreement that was to give AMD the rights to make Intel's 386
microprocessor. Under the 1982 agreement, Intel, based in
Santa Clara, Calif., was to give AMD the rights to certain
chips in exchange for the rights to chips that AMD was to
design. But Intel refused to hand over the 386 rights and AMD
blamed a subsequent string of-money-losing quarters on the
lack of that chip in its product line.
   In October 1990, Judge Phelps ruled that Intel had acted
in bad faith by secretly deciding to thwart the 1982
agreement while leading AMD to believe that the deal was
still on. In his 1990 findings, the arbitrator wrote that
Intel's actions were "a classic example of a breach of the
covenant of good faith and fair dealing, preaching good faith
but practicing duplicity."
   But, at the same time, Judge Phelps ruled that AMD had
failed to deliver chip designs that were its part of the
bargain. The arbitrator spent the next 16 months considering
the remedies he announced yesterday.
   The awards reflect the 1990 findings. In a 90-page
opinion, Judge Phelps said that Intel had decided "as a
matter of corporate strategy to keep its intent under wraps
in order to retain AMD in what was then an empty corporate
relationship so that AMD would not be tempted to jump ship
and team up with another company to compete with Intel in
some new alliance."
   But because AMD had failed to deliver on its part of the
1982 pact, he ruled that AMD is only entitled to total
damages of $15.3 million for Intel's failure to deliver
certain chip technologies as part of the 1982 pact.
Furthermore, the judge also refused AMD's request for a
refund of $23 million in royalties paid to Intel.
   Judge Phelps said that the true extent of the damage that
Intel's bad faith dealt on AMD was "immeasureable." Thus, as
a remedy, he ruled that AMD should have the rights to its own
386 clone, and the right to use any technology embodied in
the clone in future versions of its chips.
   AMD is now "is protected from Intel harassment over its
use of any alleged Intel intellectual property," Judge Phelps
wrote.
   Intel's Mr. Grove countered that the 1982 agreement with
AMD bars any award of damages, including the granting of the
rights to the 386, and that doing so is outside the
arbitrator's powers. Judge Phelps has argued that he was free
to fashion whatever remedy he thought was appropriate.
   AMD is counting on yesterday's ruling to defuse the next
battle in the Intel-AMD feud, when a federal court in March
begins considering what may be a more critical case, a
lawsuit in which Intel has accused AMD of illegally using
copyrights on software called microcode in a chip called the
287. Intel has sued AMD for copyright violations in its 386
chip as well, demanding $600 million in damages.
   AMD openly admits to using Intel's microcode in its 287
and 386 clones, but argues that it does so legally under a
1976 agreement with Intel. Even if the federal court rules
against Intel on the 287 case, Judge Phelp's award of the 386
clone rights could make moot Intel's federal case against
AMD's 386 clone. If the federal court rules in favor of AMD
in both cases, the company will be able to use Intel
microcode in chips it develops until 1995, AMD maintains.
   Use of the microcode would make it easier for AMD to
continue to clone successive generations of Intel's chips,
including the next-generation 586, expected out this summer,
and further generations including the 686 and 786, which
Intel is already developing.
   Intel argues that Superior Court approval of yesterday's
ruling isn't guaranteed, and that the federal court may not
accept the state court's ruling anyway.
   It is critical for AMD to clear the legal uncertainties
surrounding its clone if it was to keep increasing its market
share at the pace it has so far. While many U.S. and Asian PC
makers are using AMD's clones, and have helped AMD gain a 30%
share of the 386 market in the fourth quarter of 1991, other
makers shun the clones. Japanese PC makers, important players
in the booming laptop and notebook-computer markets, have
avoided AMD's clones altogether because of legal worries, AMD
says.
   Meanwhile, AMD, charging that Intel conspired to bar it
illegally from markets, filed a federal antitrust suit last
year that is expected to go to court next year. And the
Federal Trade Commission last year began an informal inquiry
into Intel's business practices. Intel maintains that it
hasn't broken antitrust laws.