After All, Concerns'
   Strong-Arm Tactics
   Don't Settle Dispute
   ---
   Instead Chairmen of Stevens,
   Southwest Agree on Truce
   Before Arm-Wrestling
   ----
   By Bridget O'Brian
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
But when all was said and done -- and lots was said and
done -- Mr. Kelleher had lost the best of three match-ups to
determine which of the two companies would continue using
"plane smart" in its advertising.
   Luckily for him, the 61-year-old chairman went into the
contest knowing that the outcome didn't matter; the two
companies already had worked out an agreement. And, after he
had bested Mr. Kelleher, Mr. Herwald told the crowd what it
was: Stevens Aviation would cede "plane smart" to Southwest
"to show there's no hard feelings and no abuse of senior
citizens."
   Mr. Herwald had challenged Mr. Kelleher to the wrestling
match earlier this year after the tiny South Carolina
aircraft servicing firm noticed Southwest using "Just Plane
Smart" in advertising. Stevens had been using "plane smart."
The companies turned the event into a publicity stunt/charity
fundraiser.
   Mr. Kelleher, who plays up his reputation for hard living,
entered the ring puffing a cigarette and with the theme from
"Rocky" playing. He was preceded by cheerleaders and followed
by his trainers, one of whom had a bandoleer strapped across
his chest filled with airline-size bottles of Wild Turkey,
Mr. Kelleher's drink of choice. The businesslike Mr. Herwald
wore a polo shirt, casual trousers and boat shoes. On his
right arm was a temporary tattoo with a skull and the words,
"Born to raise capital."
   A burly 37-year-old who works out with weights, Mr.
Herwald lost the first round when Mr. Kelleher sent in a
ringer, 62-year-old J.R. Jones, the 1986 Texas armwrestling
champion. In the second round, Mr. Kelleher lost to a Stevens
customer service representative, diminutive Annette Coats.
   In the last round, the only one between the two
executives, Mr. Kelleher pretended to ask for a time out to
go to the men's room, then jammed Mr. Herwald's arm to the
table. The referee deemed that ploy unfair, and the two men
engaged in an apparent struggle for several minutes before
Mr. Herwald's victory.
   The audience at the Dallas Sportatorium, where
professional wrestlers go at it on weekend nights, was
stacked with Southwest employees. One of the city's largest
all news radio stations broadcast the match live.