Turning Point:
   Olympia  York Plans
   A Huge Restructuring
   Involving Many Banks
   ---
   Real Estate Giant's Lenders,
   Owed Nearly $20 Billion,
   May Well Demand Equity
   ---
   Comedown for a Mighty Firm
   ----
   By Neil Barsky
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Olympia and York's bankers could demand equity and other
concessions in exchange for new money and leniency on much of
OY's nearly $20 billion of debt. Over recent days the
Canadian conglomerate has lined up a series of cash infusions
to deal with the more immediate crisis of having to retire
nearly $300 million of short-term commercial paper.
   If, like some banks, a real estate company can be "too big
to fail," OY appears to be that company. With more than two
dozen banks on the hook for at least $100 million each,
including a half-dozen or so believed to be owed at least
$500 million each, the real estate giant would shake many
institutions if it collapsed.
   The bankers' only choice, many concede, is to ease the
cash-flow crisis by continuing to back the Reichmann
brothers, who built a floor and tiling company into one of
the largest collections of real estate assets in the world.
   For months, the company's chief strategist, Paul
Reichmann, has been meeting with scores of bankers, trying
quietly to assure them that the secretive Toronto
conglomerate was fundamentally sound despite the global
recession in commercial real estate. OY's major holdings of
office buildings are concentrated in Canada, New York City
and the London docklands, where its 71-acre Canary Wharf
project has been siphoning billions of dollars from the
company's other holdings.
   With loans coming due and cash flows shrinking, Olympia 
York, whose name once seemed synonymous with raw financial
might, has been forced to change strategy. Within weeks, a
large group of OY's banks, led by Canadian Imperial Bank of
Commerce, will sit down to map out a comprehensive debt
restructuring plan that could require OY to forfeit equity
in some of its projects in exchange for more money and time
to work out the problems, according to bankers.
   An Olympia  York spokesman confirmed the company is
seeking to restructure its loans. "Given the very substantial
equity in the company and our strong relationship with a
number of the world's leading banks, we are confident that
our efforts will be successful," the spokesman said.
   In a departure from past practice, the closely held
company is believed to have retained J.P. Morgan  Co. and
one other financial firm to advise it.
   Earlier this month, the financial markets gave a sampling
of how they might react to an OY collapse. Amid rumors of an
impending OY bankruptcy filing, the stock market declined,
bank stocks fell and even the Canadian dollar dropped against
the U.S. dollar.
   The import of OY to the world's banking system was also
underscored earlier this month. Company officials met with
officials of Bank of England and the Bank of Canada to
discuss OY's precarious situation, say people close to the
talks.
   Even though the company is believed to have violated
numerous covenants in its loans already, the banks appear
agreeable to an out-of-court solution. Unless a handful of
banks bolt from the group and insist on being paid off
immediately, the restructuring could be a textbook case of
how a highly indebted company asserts its will on its
lenders. Even the choice of Canadian Imperial Bank of
Commerce as the lead bank suggests OY's strength in the
negotiations: Paul Reichmann sits on that bank's board of
directors.
   The restructuring talks mark a turning point in the career
of Mr. Reichmann, who has commanded an almost mystical
following among bankers who have marveled at the private
company's succession of large gambles in real estate
projects. The company's troubles have left many bankers
searching for explanations of how such a once-strong company
could have grown so weak so fast.
   "There are others in real estate you don't care about, but
the fact is I have always been in awe of them," says one
banker who has lent to the company. Adds a Japanese banker:
"Paul Reichmann is the exact type of borrower we're taught to
lend to in business school. He has integrity and he is smart.
The world-wide economy in real estate is so bad right now I'm
not sure there's anyone who isn't in trouble."
   Even before the banks get down to work, OY has taken
steps intended to calm the markets and restore its
increasingly shaky reputation for financial stability. Such
moves give a glimpse into OY's banks' willingness to give
the company breathing room as it tries to untangle its many
problems.
   Last week, for example, OY agreed to sell Exchange Tower,
a Toronto office building, back to its banks for what is
believed to be about $300 million, according to knowledgeable
individuals. The sale, which may be tantamount to a
foreclosure, was made necessary when the Dominion Bond Rating
Service lowered its rating on 300 million Canadian dollars in
commercial paper -- short-term promissory notes -- backed by
the tower's mortgage, and the paper program had to be
retired.
   The agency had affirmed the company's rating just a week
earlier. But it said it lowered the rating because companies
were refusing to roll over OY's paper. Panic in the
short-term-paper markets could be deadly for any company,
since few have the cash on hand to retire the debts at once.
   Despite that, Dominion remains optimistic about OY. "We
take a long-term view," says Doug Sawchuck, an analyst at the
rating service. "They have a winner in Canary Wharf whether
it's a year or five years down the road. New York and Toronto
will remain prime office centers. In the long term, they have
value there."
   The company also appears to be looking outside for a
strong executive to back up Mr. Reichmann, whose time and
energy have been stretched to the limit over the past few
months. People familiar with the situation say OY is in
serious negotiations with former Manufacturers Hanover
President Thomas S. Johnson to take a senior position with
the firm. Mr. Johnson would become the most senior
non-Reichmann in the company.
   "Johnson's hiring would be good news," says a banker
involved in the negotiations. "He is well thought of in Japan
and England, he knows the capital markets and he has
unimpeachable integrity." Mr. Johnson, a highly regarded
banker who was passed over for the top job at Manufacturers
when the bank decided to merge with Chemical Bank last
summer, did not return phone calls.
   In another sign that banks are rallying round the company,
11 lenders stepped into the breach Friday to fortify OY with
an $89 million bridge loan. One banker says the 11
institutions, all of which are believed to have large
existing exposures to OY, are Canadian Imperial, Royal Bank
of Canada, Credit Suisse, Commerzbank AG, Citicorp, Barclays
PLC, Credit Lyonnais, Lloyds Bank PLC, Chemical Banking
Corp., Hongkong Shanghai Bank and the National Bank of
Canada.
   The banks that are believed to have the largest exposure
to Olympia  York are believed to be Bank of Montreal, Bank
of Nova Scotia, Canadian Imperial and Royal Bank of Canada in
Canada; Citicorp, Chemical and Security Pacific Corp. in the
U.S.; and Sumitomo Bank Ltd. and Dai-Ichi Kangyo Bank in
Japan.
   The restructuring follows a series of painful financial
blows that would have floored many companies. The three
industries OY is most heavily invested in -- real estate,
energy and newsprint -- are all in world-wide slumps. The
value of its stockholdings has dropped from over C$6 billion
in 1990 to less than C$4 billion today. Rumors of trouble
have forced the company to withdraw from the low-interest
commercial paper markets, where it once had over $835 million
in outstanding debt.
   Moreover, the company is believed to have lost over $200
million on an ill-fated investment in Campeau Corp. And a
purchase of a 19% interest in Santa Fe Pacific has not been
profitable, either. Its 24.8% interest in Landmark Land Co.,
which once had a stock-market value in the tens of millions
of dollars, is close to worthless.
   But all that is positively cheery compared with the
company's situation in London. Led by a conviction that
London would emerge in post-1992 Europe as the world's third
financial capital after New York and Tokyo, OY embarked in
1987 on what even then seemed an audacious project: a $6.5
billion urban reclamation plan that would create a city
within a city from an old industrial area in the London
docklands.
   Since then, OY has spent over $3.5 billion out of its own
coffers, which makes Canary Wharf one of the largest bets in
history. And while the project has attracted big-name U.S.
tenants such as American Express and Morgan Stanley, it has
so far failed to dislodge many major British companies from
their offices in the financial district. Overbuilding
elsewhere in London and the British recession have combined
to make the still hard-to-get-to project years away from
success.
   Financing the project has proved almost as difficult as
finding tenants. For some time, the company has been seeking
long-term financing for its Canary Wharf tower, which is the
largest in England. A planned $370 million financing on
another Canary Wharf building fell through last week, and the
company has a continuing legal dispute with Morgan Stanley
over when OY is obliged to pay the U.S. investment bank $250
million for its Canary Wharf building.
   The Canary Wharf bet mirrored a strategy that worked
wonders for OY in the past. In 1977, the company made a
now-legendary purchase of eight Manhattan office buildings
for a meager $320 million, at a time when New York City's
survival as a world-class city was in question. New York
recovered, and the properties quickly appreciated to nearly
$3 billion at the market's peak. Then in the early 1980s, OY
bet the company's fate again, this time on the success of a
six million-square-foot office center in lower Manhattan.
While other developers were only willing to build one
building at a time, OY agreed to guarantee the construction
of four office towers simultaneously. That project, too, was
a huge success, and today the development, known as the World
Financial Center, houses the world headquarters of American
Express, Merrill Lynch  Co. and Dow Jones  Co., publisher
of this newspaper.
   Then in 1989, as if to show its acumen was not confined to
real estate, OY made millions more by betting $800 million
on the direction of the yen against the dollar in a
"yen-denominated" mortgage. Before the rest of the real
estate world could even figure out the details of the
investment, it paid off handsomely when the yen rose against
the dollar.
   Such moves are what helped OY become the world's premier
real estate company. Today, it owns close to 45 million
square feet of office space, or as much commercial real
estate as exists in San Diego, Cleveland or Pittsburgh. In
New York, it is the largest owner by far, with 14 office
buildings. In Toronto and its suburbs, it owns 19.
   If OY's only holdings were in real estate, its
restructuring might be a relatively simple affair.
Unfortunately for the company's banks, however, OY has used
as collateral for corporate loans such diverse holdings as a
75% controlling interest in Gulf Canada Resources, Canada's
largest oil company, and its 82% interest in Abitibi-Price,
the world's largest newsprint company.
   The complexity of its various loan agreements virtually
assures that the banks will be working on unraveling the
company's finances for months to come.
   ---
   Larry M. Greenberg in Toronto contributed to this article.