LEISURE  ARTS -- Television:
   A Long Look Into Mr. Turner's Library
   ----
   By Robert Goldberg
Now comes the latest, "MGM: When the Lion Roars," a
three-part docu-miniseries airing over three nights (TNT,
Sunday, Monday and Tuesday, 8-10:30 p.m. EST; re-airing
Sunday, March 29, 12-7:30 p.m.). It's the story of a
Hollywood empire, as told through the films of that very same
MGM film library, and it proves conclusively that,
environmental rhetoric aside, no one can recycle like Mr.
Turner.
   Fittingly enough, the saga of MGM starts with a
scrap-metal dealer and his 24-year-old protege. On April 26,
1924, Louis B. Mayer and his young sidekick, Irving Thalberg,
open the doors of a megastudio, Metro Goldwyn Mayer. The
money (and corporate control) is coming from the Loews
theater chain, but the creative vision belongs to these two
men.
   They declare that MGM is a movie factory, an assembly line
that will churn out a film a week. Over the next four
decades, MGM will in fact deliver an impressive string of
hits, from "The Wizard of Oz" and "Singin' in the Rain" to
"Dr. Zhivago" and "Gone With the Wind."
   But more than films, what MGM really produces are stars --
"more stars than there are in heaven," according to its
publicity. If MGM is a factory, it's a glamour factory. As
the largest proponent of the star system, the studio creates
an astounding stable of contract players: Clark Gable, Greta
Garbo, John and Lionel Barrymore, Judy Garland, Jimmy
Stewart, Joan Crawford, Spencer Tracy, Katharine Hepburn,
Elizabeth Taylor.
   By the mid-1930s, MGM has become the largest and richest
of the studios, but Mayer and Thalberg are feuding. Thalberg
pushes for prestige films like "Mutiny on the Bounty." Mayer,
showman and despot of MGM, comments, "Whenever I hear the
word prestige, I know I'm going to lose money."
   In subsequent years, MGM goes through many incarnations.
After Thalberg's early death, Mayer turns MGM toward his
brand of entertainment -- the white-picket-fence,
girl-next-door, happily-ever-after brand. Wholesome family
fun is the order of the day, from the "Andy Hardy" and "Young
Dr. Kildare" series through the patriotic battle films of
World War II to the Fred Astaire and Judy Garland and Gene
Kelly spectaculars ("An American in Paris," "Meet Me in St.
Louis," "Easter Parade"), not to mention the pet movies,
"Lassie Come Home" and "National Velvet."
   The ascension of Dore Schary in 1948 brings to the studio
a style somewhat more literate ("Red Badge of Courage") and
contemporary ("Asphalt Jungle," "Cat on a Hot Tin Roof").
Finally, dwindling profits, cutbacks and red ink lead to a
succession of new executives and owners, and the eventual
demise of MGM.
   This rise-and-fall saga, as assembled by producer Joni
Levin and writer/director Frank Martin, is packed with more
than its share of glamorous stars and great footage -- the
appeal of a "That's Entertainment." And there are some good
stories too, like the time matinee idol John Gilbert was
stood up at the altar by Greta Garbo; when Mayer suggested,
"Why do you need to marry her -- just sleep with her,"
Gilbert socked him in the jaw and left him on the floor of
the men's room.
   But running as it does for 7 1/2 hours over three nights,
this show is for the devoted movie buff only. No doubt the
film makers had a massive task winnowing the MGM library, but
as the series goes on and on, introducing fashion designers
and set builders and still photographers, it feels like
you've stumbled into one of those interminable Academy Awards
ceremonies. I would have been happy with something one-third
as long.
   Our host is Patrick Stewart, star of "Star Trek: The Next
Generation." Articulate and affable as ever, he is a charming
usher through this theater of memories. But the set he
strolls through (a wedding cake floating on cloud nine),
while meant to evoke the old Ziegfeld days, is just plain
bizarre -- too tacky to be lavish, not tacky enough to be
camp. And this wedding-cake confection is symptomatic of the
series' overwrought tone.
   Uninflected insights, like King Vidor's description of
making "The Big Parade" (as the soldiers advance through the
woods, he wants every move to be on the beat, so the sequence
has the feeling of a funeral march, the feeling of death),
these are few and far between. More common is hyperbole,
words like "marvelous," "magnificent" and "animal magnetism."
Mr. Stewart tells us: "MGM was the grandest motion picture
studio the world has ever known. . . . There's magic in the
very name."
   If all of this feels like an advertisement -- it is. Mr.
Turner has created an entertainment that is not just three
nights of programming, it's also a huge in-house promotion, a
massive ad for his networks. These MGM movies and MGM stars
that he's getting us all excited about -- he's the sole
supplier, and they'll be airing on TNT for years to come.
   Louis B. Mayer once said, "Movies are the only thing you
can sell and still own." The old fox would have been
impressed by Ted Turner.