International:
   Internal Struggle
   At Porsche Centers
   On Chairman Bohn
   ----
   By Timothy Aeppel
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
A spokesman for Mr. Bohn at Porsche's Stuttgart
headquarters declined to comment on the rumors. He confirmed
that the supervisory board, which can replace the chairman,
is meeting today. Some insiders think a successor to Mr. Bohn
could be chosen at that meeting.
   Finding a successor won't be easy, and underscores the
difficulties facing the troubled car maker. Bayerische
Motoren Werke AG's director of research and development,
Wolfgang Reitzle, was offered the job, according to people at
BMW, who add that he turned it down. Porsche wouldn't confirm
the offer was made.
   "It's a thankless task to head Porsche right now," said
Stephen Reitman, an auto analyst at UBS Phillips  Drew in
London. "And there aren't that many qualified candidates out
there who would consider it."
   Mr. Reitman said BMW's Mr. Reitzle has little reason to
jump, as he's already a candidate to succeed BMW's
63-year-old chairman, Eberhard von Kuenheim. BMW is one of
Europe's most successful car companies.
   Even if Mr. Bohn is dismissed and a successor named, it's
unlikely a new manager could overcome Porsche's problems. The
entire sports-car industry is in crisis, especially in the
crucial U.S. market, where consumers have turned their backs
on high-powered imports. Porsche's U.S. sales fell by more
than half in 1991, to 4,388 cars. In 1986, Porsche sold
30,471 cars in the U.S.
   Still, the company is profitable and has inherent
strengths. One of Mr. Bohn's strategies, for instance, has
been to build up the division that designs cars under
contract for other global producers. This has helped offset
falling sales. Porsche also is sitting on a pile of cash. Mr.
Bohn told a news conference last month that the company has
620 million marks ($376 million) in liquid assets and a cash
flow of 273 million marks.
   The company already is adapting to the tough times. It's
eliminating 550 jobs in Germany, out of 8,700. And after a
tug of war between Mr. Bohn and the controlling families, the
company shelved plans for an expensive new model, opting
instead to develop a range of cheaper cars.
   Mr. Bohn's contract expires at year end. Experts think
he'll be kept on at least until then. But, said one company
source: "The {Piech and Porsche} families have always been
quite ruthless in the past in changing chairmen who they
don't feel are doing the job correctly."