Potomac Watch:
   Bush Is Haunted
   By Desert Storm
   As Election Nears
   ----
   By Paul A. Gigot
"George Bush," Mr. Nunn tells the world, his vote for
sanctions over force long forgotten. "President Bill Clinton
will never send American men and women into harm's way unless
he's prepared to finish the job."
   Far-fetched? Perhaps. Yet Saddam and his regime survive a
year later to torment the president who denied his dream of
conquest. And the allied security guarantee for the Kurds is
set to expire June 30.
   As incredible as it once seemed, it's now possible to
imagine George Bush on the political defensive on the Gulf
War this autumn, especially against an opponent who never had
to cast a vote on sanctions. Straddling Bill Clinton may have
hedged on his support for the war, but not enough so that he
won't feel free to lambaste its unhappy aftermath.
   The underlying problem is that Mr. Bush has yet to
consolidate the splendid military victory of Operation Desert
Storm. Even before the war had ended, my editorial colleagues
wrote in the space to the left on this page about
Eisenhower's World War II mistake of stopping short of
Berlin; they did not want Mr. Bush to "stop at some Elbe in
the desert." Everyone hooted at the time, including, I recall
since I was the target, Democratic House Speaker Tom Foley in
a TV exchange.
   Saddam is the only one laughing now. His troops hung Shias
from tanks in the south, surrounded Kurds in the north and
shot any coup plotters. Our State Department Arabists, so
wrong about Saddam for so long, predicted he would fall
anyway. Instead, Turkish President Turgut Ozal was rewarded
for his support of Mr. Bush with an election defeat at the
hands of a Gulf War critic. Mr. Bush turned most of his
attention to the will-o'-the-wisp of peace for Palestine.
   It's a mark of Washington cynicism that everyone assumes
Mr. Bush, down in the polls and eager to highlight foreign
policy, wants another fight with Saddam to finish the job
now. If only it were true.
   Certainly no one in the administration would weep if
Saddam fell tomorrow. Some closest to the Oval Office would
accept even Genghis Khan, so eager are they to remove the
symbol of Saddam. Mr. Bush is also prepared to bomb Iraq's
missile sites if Saddam fails to comply with United Nations
resolutions. But beyond this possible and necessary skirmish,
there are no signs of a change in strategy that might produce
long-term stability in the Gulf.
   Most officials expect, even hope, they won't have to bomb
Saddam. "My guess is he will ultimately cave," as he has
before, says one senior official. In the Pentagon, there's
great ambivalence about the uses of another bombing. An
attack would destroy the weapons we know about all right, but
it might strengthen Saddam by letting him again defy the
infidels. A surgical raid won't achieve the political goals
that Desert Storm didn't.
   How about the long-whispered U.S.-led coup, the "April
surprise?" This is more sound than fury. Such talk satisfies
critics in Congress, but also gives Saddam incentive to kill
more officers as examples. Cooler heads also understand that
a coup might replace the dictator with another Baath Party
thug, Son of Saddam. He'd have a weaker hold on power, but
the U.S. would find it impossible to maintain U.N. sanctions
against him.
   These sensible caveats show how few options Mr. Bush has
given himself, short of a second invasion; meanwhile, Saddam
can still stir trouble. The new Turkish leader, Premier
Suleyman Demirel, did a favor for Mr. Bush last December and
extended what began as Operation Provide Comfort for the
Kurds for six months through June. He's said any future
extension must be voted on by his Parliament, which is like
trying to get past George Mitchell's Democratic Senate; it
isn't likely.
   The U.S. is lobbying to change that, but the Turks are
understandably worried about angering Saddam again. A
communist insurgency has grown in Turkey in recent months,
aided by sanctuaries in Iraq (and also by America's new
ally-for-peace, Syria). But if Turkey no longer Provides
Comfort after June, the diabolical Saddam can be expected to
harass the Kurds in the middle of Mr. Bush's re-election
drive.
   With so few options, maybe it's time for Mr. Bush to
listen to people who were right a year ago. Albert
Wohlstetter, the venerable strategist who predicted what has
come to pass, now writes in National Review that Mr. Bush
should try "overt operations" on behalf of the Iraqi
resistance. Support with aid and recognition the Shias, Kurds
and Sunnis who have shown remarkable organization both inside
and outside Iraq.
   This carries risks, but perhaps fewer than merely hoping
for some new benevolent Son of Saddam. Such a U.S. commitment
to freedom would do more than another bombing, however
necessary, to pressure Saddam. It might also give Mr. Bush a
credible reply to Bill Clinton.