Letters to the Editor:
   Raising Kids: Nobody's an Expert
Iris C. Metz
   Educational Consultant
   College Preparatory Service
   Pittsford, N.Y.
   ---
   We deepen our current problems and invent new ones with
the kind of babble spoken of in the article. For generations
the Bible has served as the tool for training parents to
raise children. Only the lack of knowledge concerning what
the Bible really says about this subject is keeping parents
from raising strong and healthy children today.
   I think it's time we leave all this psychological ruin
(validating feelings, empowerment, timeouts, etc.) and return
to the basic foundations of biblical child-raising
techniques. Training the child's will via the rod with faith,
love and understanding is the time-tested, "God-correct"
answer.
   Paul B. Rakowicz
   Livonia, Mich.
   ---
   I found the facile tone of your article troubling and
annoying. I felt the urge to use some of the language on the
reporter that she apparently favors for children, such as,
"Sit down and shut up unless you can say something
intelligent, you idiot."
   Child-rearing is serious business and the stakes are high.
Children do not choose the households they grow up in, and
deserve the best treatment possible from all of us. Good
child-rearing is difficult and, yes, all parents, rich and
poor, educated and uneducated, good-hearted and
mean-spirited, make mistakes.
   All of which suggests that all parents deserve all the
support they can get if we are to achieve the best possible
world. I suggest your reporter read some of the works of
Swiss psychoanalyst Alice Miller. It will sober her up a bit.
   Jane Myers
   Ann Arbor, Mich.
   ---
   I just attempted to do a cardiac evaluation on a screaming
two-year-old who had a hole in his heart but whose mother
made no attempt whatsoever to calm the child down. She sat
there impassively while he destroyed my hearing and sanity.
   As I recovered back in my consultation room, I read your
article. I decided that what parents really need when raising
kids is less expert advice and more common sense. Somehow,
humankind has managed to make it through most of the past
500,000 years without benefit of child analysts; let this be
our guide in the future.
   Marvin L. Auerback, M.D.
   Foster City Pediatric Medical Group
   Foster City, Calif.