A Hidden Culprit in Auto Imports
   ----
   By Thomas Gale Moore
The law distinguishes between the fleets of domestic and
foreign manufacturers. A foreign auto is defined as one with
less than 70% domestic value added. Foreign fleets and
domestic fleets must each meet the standards separately; U.S.
producers cannot average the sale of domestically made cars
with those assembled abroad, even if manufactured by a wholly
owned subsidiary. The effect of this provision is to leave
the importers of small, fuel-efficient cars unconstrained
while requiring U.S. companies to manufacture light-weight
autos domestically to offset their sales of larger cars.
   To meet the standard, a full-line manufacturer must
encourage the sale of small vehicles by lowering its prices
while raising prices on those cars that are less gas
efficient. Effectively, CAFE represents a tax on large
vehicles, a portion of the industry where U.S. manufacturers
have had a comparative advantage. Some or all of the proceeds
of the tax on large cars are subsequently used to subsidize
the sale of small autos.
   CAFE, at least initially, benefited organized labor by
forcing American full-line automobile companies to produce
small cars in the U.S. Imported small vehicles counted only
against other imports. Thus if Detroit were to continue to
manufacture and sell large vehicles in the U.S. without
penalty, the car companies would also have to produce small
vehicles domestically.
   Although CAFE acted initially as a protectionist device,
it is now operating perversely to encourage imports. One way
for a large domestic auto company such as Ford to contend
with CAFE is to import a sufficient amount of parts for its
larger, less fuel-efficient cars to qualify these vehicles as
imports. Bringing in 30% of the value of the vehicle causes
the car to be treated as an import against which the auto
company can offset small, fuel efficient imports. In fact by
importing sufficient parts Ford caused its 21
miles-per-gallon Crown Victoria, which is made in Ontario,
Canada, to be switched from being classified as a domestic
car in 1991 for CAFE purposes, to being considered an import
for the 1992 model year.
   CAFE also provides a disincentive for Japanese auto
companies that have established manufacturing facilities in
the U.S. to buy more domestically made parts. For example,
the Honda Accord, assembled in Ohio, the Nissan Sentra, made
in Tennessee, and the Toyota Corolla, produced in Fremont,
Calif., are all classified as imports. (However, by a quirk
in the law, General Motors counts the Geo Prizm -- the same
car as the Corolla, produced in the same Fremont plant, as a
domestic.)
   The Japanese will want to continue to have these
fuel-efficient vehicles counted as imports to offset the
sales of imported large luxury cars with poorer gas mileage.
Therefore, to keep under the 70% local content rule, these
companies will continue to shut out American parts
manufacturers.
   Over the last few years, Japanese auto companies have
"banked" a large amount of CAFE credits by selling small,
fuel-efficient vehicles. Drawing on these credits and their
sales of fuel-efficient cars, importers of Japanese cars have
begun to bring into the U.S. large luxury vehicles, such as
the Lexus, which gets only 20 miles to the gallon, to compete
with top-of-the-line U.S. autos. As a result of CAFE,
American auto companies must inflate the price of their big
cars, but the Japanese face no such constraint. Thus the
Japanese are able to underprice U.S. manufacturers, not
because they are more efficient but because of CAFE.
   By now, it is unlikely that CAFE preserves union jobs. It
encourages the import of luxury cars made in Asia. It
discourages the use of U.S.-made parts by Japanese
manufacturers in the U.S. It is inducing American companies
to import parts for their larger cars. By hurting American
consumers and raising the price of the most sought-after
domestic cars, it undoubtedly reduces employment generally.
   While CAFE is ostensibly justified on the grounds that it
saves fuel, little evidence exists that much if any gasoline
has been saved overall. Depending on the response of
consumers to price changes, forcing automobile manufacturers
into taxing large cars and using the proceeds to subsidize
small more fuel-efficient cars may increase or decrease total
sales. At the same time, by luring consumers into
fuel-efficient vehicles, the cost of driving is reduced,
encouraging more auto use and gas consumption.
   In addition, making large cars more expensive motivates
the public to husband old gas guzzlers. Since these existing
large cars get poorer gas mileage, produce more air
pollution, and are less safe than new large vehicles,
maintaining them interferes with a number of goals: air
quality, safety and fuel efficiency itself. Alternatively
consumers can substitute new light trucks, which bear less
onerous regulatory controls but use more gas per mile.
Finally small cars hold fewer passengers, so families must
sometimes operate two cars when one larger car would have
held everyone.
   At best CAFE improves the fuel efficiency of autos, which
use only about 12% of all energy consumed in the U.S. Even if
automobile drivers alone are considered wasteful, a gasoline
tax would be the efficient solution. Such a tax would neither
encourage consumers to keep older gas guzzlers nor distort
trade-offs between large and small cars, imports and
domestics, or "muscle" hot rods and family wagons. A gas tax
of about 3 cents imposed in 1984 would have achieved the same
results as CAFE has to date.
   The other rationale for economizing on fossil fuels such
as gasoline has been "the greenhouse effect." While the
evidence for the greenhouse effect is questionable, an
efficient policy to deal with any possible global warming
would be a tax on the carbon content of fuels, not CAFE. As
mentioned above, CAFE may actually increase gasoline
consumption and hence carbon dioxide emissions.
   CAFE cannot be justified, therefore, on either energy
conservation or environmental grounds. If Congress is really
serious about the imbalance in the automobile trade between
Tokyo and Detroit, it should abolish fuel economy standards.
Such a policy would have negligible effect on energy
consumption and would be more effective in shrinking the auto
trade deficit than bashing the Japanese or sending the
president to beg for sales.
   ---
   Mr. Moore, a former member of President Reagan's Council
of Economic Advisers, is a fellow at Stanford's Hoover
Institute.