Occidental to Cut
   Canadian Holding
   To 30% from 48%
   ----
   By Suzanne McGee
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The shares will be resold by the underwriters to the
public at C$25.75 a share on an installment receipt basis,
the first installment of C$11.75 to be paid on closing in
early March, with the remaining C$14 a share due Dec. 31,
1992.
   The move by Occidental to dispose of some of its interest
in Canadian Occidental was expected. Although never publicly
targeted by Occidental, the Canadian operations were widely
presumed to be on the block as part of Occidental's
continuing asset sale process. To date, Occidental has netted
more than $2.6 billion in proceeds from the sale of
operations that had generated more than $10 billion in annual
revenue. The sales have also swept more than $2.3 billion of
long-term debt from Occidental's balance sheet.
   But the timing of the transaction caught Canadian
investors by surprise. They say they had expected the
Canadian oil and gas concern to issue new treasury shares to
help cover the $500 million it and its partners plan to spend
to develop a major oil find in Yemen. In trading on the
Toronto Stock Exchange yesterday, Canadian Occidental shares
closed at C$25, down C$2.50.
   "Regardless of when Canadian Oxy goes ahead with its own
offering, there are going to be a lot more shares available
now," said William Magee, oil analyst at Research Capital
Corp., a Toronto investment dealer.
   Nevertheless, Mr. Magee says he expects Canadian
Occidental's share price to jump again, as soon as the
company announces new test drilling results from its Yemen
oil field. The share price moved sharply higher early this
year on reports of initial reserve estimates. The stock has
traded as high as C$30.25. The Canadian company has a 52%
stake in the field, with Occidental owning 18%. To date, the
partners have reported estimated recoverable reserves of 235
million barrels based on the results of three wells, but
bulls estimate there might be as much as a billion barrels of
oil in the field.