Playing House:
   Troubled Teen-Agers
   Create a Fragile Family
   Beneath a Busy Street
   ---
   The `Trolls' Answer to `Pops,'
   A Charismatic  Ex-Convict
   Who Gives but Also Takes
   ---
   Life of Hustling in Hollywood
   ----
   By Sonia L. Nazario
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
"It's like a modern-day `Oliver Twist,' with Pops as
Fagin," says Elliott Carroll, formerly a group worker with
Angel's Flight, a Los Angeles runaway service agency.
   The teen-age boys and girls who become Trolls are among
the 1.1 million minors who run away from, or are thrown out
of, their homes every year. A recent study financed by the
Department of Health and Human Services indicates that
two-thirds of teen-agers who seek help at shelters say they
were physically or sexually abused by a parent; about a third
had an alcoholic parent, and roughly the same number say they
came from foster homes.
   Government and private social service agencies can't help
even a fraction of these teen-agers find work or places to
live, yet only a third of them return to their homes,
estimates Covenant House, a runaway services agency. Even
teen-agers who commit crimes are quickly cast out of packed
juvenile halls into the streets. Many join skid row's
permanent homeless population, go to jail or die young, from
a drug overdose, disease or suicide. Some flee to Hollywood,
looking for the glitter they've seen on television.
   And a few end up in extended family groups like the
Trolls. Although there are many smaller and more loosely
organized families of teen-agers in Los Angeles and other
cities, the Troll family is among the biggest, most cohesive
and longest-living of such groups.
   Despite the wretched life the Trolls lead under his wing,
Pops represents a kind of salvation for them. A bearded and
skinny 47-year-old, who says he served 22 years in prison for
murder (although Hollywood police say they can't find records
of it), Pops creates a rough-hewn family in exchange for
roughly 10% of the teen-agers' take, payable in cash, alcohol
or food.
   "They can pour their hearts out to me," Pops says, pausing
as a 13-year-old girl Troll whispers, "Bye, papa, see you
later," and gives him a lingering kiss on the lips.
   The Trolls first came together three years ago, Pops says,
when he was living in the Hole with six other ex-convicts who
drank and robbed. A 15-year-old girl named Jennifer, who had
run away from the wealthy oceanside enclave of Palos Verdes
Estates, visited the Hole because she had heard Pops was a
good listener. She decided to stay, and others followed. They
found in Pops a person who would hear out their tales of
neglect and abuse, some enhanced by drug use and a desire to
show off.
   Pops says he hasn't found a job or home because he wants
to stay and take care of the teen-agers. He is given to
drinking binges and disappearances -- he recently vanished
from the Hole, but social workers expect him back soon. Pops
continually emphasizes the sacrifices he claims to make for
the teen-agers. At a recent meeting, he reminded the Trolls
that he once went to jail for harboring minors (although
Hollywood police say they don't think this is true). "I give,
I give, I give. Somewhere, you got to give me back," he said.
And the teen-agers say Pops does give them something -- a
sense they are loved -- by hugging them and making sure they
get medical care if they need it.
   Once Trolls embrace Pops, it can be hard for them to
leave. After years of unhappy family life followed by the
degradations of life on the streets, they think they don't
deserve a better lot. "You are treated like scum by people,"
says Jennifer, now 17, who spends her days panhandling
because she needs a permanent address and identification card
to get any legitimate job. The only companies willing to hire
teen-agers like Trolls are operators of telephone sex-chat
lines, the Trolls say. About half of all chronic runaways,
both men and women, turn to prostitution, social workers say.
   Jennifer says she recently awoke 60 miles from the Hole on
a street corner, bruised and covered with blood after being
clubbed unconscious and raped by a prospective customer.
"Your self-worth totally dies when you do stuff like that,"
she says.
   Like many of the Trolls' stories, this account couldn't be
independently confirmed; the Trolls insist their tales are
true, and social workers say much of what the Trolls report
is sadly believable. Because the Trolls are minors, their
last names aren't being printed.
   Social workers are deeply split about Pops and the Trolls.
"He's the first adult many of them have seen who takes an
interest," says Leslie Forbes, director of Options House, a
Hollywood runaway shelter. But a social worker for L.A. Youth
Network, Mindi Levins, says some of her female clients who
are Trolls tell her that sex with Pops is part of their
initiation. One girl told Ms. Levins that, as an initiation
ritual, Pops had poured lighter fluid on her hand and lit it.
"Pops is some sick adult figure," Ms. Levins says. Pops
denies that there is any initiation, sexual or otherwise.
   The Trolls live in a cavern left by the California
transportation department after it built a section of the
Hollywood Freeway below Hollywood Boulevard. The roof is the
street above, which covers a triangular tunnel about the size
of a swimming pool. There are no bathroom or kitchen
facilities, so the Trolls use the bushes and try to get
vouchers for weekly showers at the local YMCA.
   They've hung up their mascot -- a tattered Troll doll with
yellow eyes and a bulbous nose -- from the Hole's ceiling.
Frayed couches circle a fire pit. A few Trolls have scavenged
scrap wood to build makeshift rooms and hung pictures of old
friends on the concrete walls. Pops, who keeps a sign reading
"Gifts for the Family" on his dresser, has a more private
canopy bed.
   A typical Troll day begins just before noon, when they
awake in time to get lunch from one of the runaway assistance
services in the Hollywood area. In the afternoon, Pops
assigns chores -- getting food, drugs or alcohol. Then most
go panhandling; others prostitute themselves. When they
aren't working, they socialize as they walk the length of
Hollywood Boulevard, usually several times a day and into the
night. Around midnight, they head for the Hole, where they
stay up until three or four in the morning, talking and
drinking.
   Chris, 14, who goes by the name "Motown," is a slight boy
with bleached hair and a ring through his nose. He says his
parents were divorced when he was young, and he grew up with
his mother, whose work as an executive secretary often took
her from home. When she died, Chris moved in with his father,
who also traveled frequently for business. "When I need
money, he gives it to me like that," Chris says, snapping his
fingers. "His way of caring for me is money. It's always been
the same: `Hey, son, what's up, gotta go.'"
   Now, having run away and joined the Trolls, things seem
better. "We're like brothers and sisters," Chris says,
greeting several Trolls with warm hugs. "We've all adopted
each other. I've gotten more of a family orientation than I
have with my real family." Chris, like an estimated 20% of
street teens, says he's homosexual and often goes home with
older men.
   To the girl Trolls, Pops is more than a father, less than
a lover. "I'm Pops's princess," says Jamie, 18, as she paints
her lips with black eye liner and fluffs her lime-green
Mohawk hair style. Around her neck is a dog collar, and a
spider earring is clamped on her nose. Three years ago, when
Jamie first joined the Trolls, she followed the custom of
sleeping in Pops's bed, "for protection," she says. "He just
hugged me like a father would hug his child. Eventually, he
got me my own bed."
   As their stand-in father, Pops teaches the teen-agers the
rituals of family life. He showed Jamie how to use a tampon
by slitting her teddy bear with a knife. Pops also performs
"marriages" among the Trolls after they present him with the
obligatory payment of a 40-ounce bottle of beer.
   Teen-agers not only get attention from the Trolls, but
something else that's becoming increasingly important:
protection from violence. Homicides in Hollywood related to
gang combat rose 10% in 1991. On Hollywood's two main
thoroughfares alone, 14 people were gunned down. Gangs such
as the White Fence or the 18th Street Crips terrorize
homeless teens to keep them off their drug-dealing turf.
   "Bang] Bang] You're dead," a car full of White Fence
gangsters yelled at a Troll named Joseph one evening as he
neared the Hole's entrance. Joseph says he sprinted away to
dodge a volley of gunfire. "Afterward, I sat down and shook
for a while," he says.
   Rape is a major danger, too, says Lois Lee, executive
director of another private welfare group, Children of the
Night. Several months ago, outreach worker Brian Bob found a
16-year-old Troll sobbing hysterically in the Hole. Minutes
before, she had been raped at gunpoint by an older man who
had fired shots at the only other Troll present to keep him
at bay. After being raped a second time, the girl turned to
Covenant House to help her get home to Dallas.
   Ms. Lee says that pimps often hire "catchers," security
guards or parking-lot attendants who, for a $50 or $100 fee,
will recruit young girls for prostitution. "They've already
gotten two of my best friends," says a Troll named Velda,
referring to pimps who picked up two 13-year-old runaway
friends using threats and promises of movie contacts. Velda,
who says she had been beaten by her mother and raped by a
male babysitter, ran away from an Iowa foster home, where she
says her foster mother had tried to push her down the stairs.
Velda, two months pregnant, says she hopes "some man will
come and save me."
   To panhandle, Trolls pack knives and work in pairs; some
of the girls solicit for money -- Pops doesn't require
prostitution, but he doesn't mind taking money from it -- and
the boys watch from nearby and provide protection. At night,
three Trolls take turns on watch, warning others when
occasional cocaine addicts or gang members appear. When one
Troll sees another in danger, they scream, "Troll Call]"
along Hollywood Boulevard, and Trolls race to their defense.
Such a call recently went out when several older men tried to
pull a 13-year-old nicknamed "Dancer" into their car.
   "If I see a sister in a fight, I step in," says Jamie, who
never sleeps without a lead pipe, knife and broken beer
bottle by her side. "The family helps me survive. Hollywood
eats people alive."
   For fun, the Trolls take LSD together and play tag in the
dark. Occasionally, male teens yell "Male bonding]" and line
up to relieve themselves on cars zooming by on the freeway
below. Other times they throw beer bottles onto the speeding
cars, leading to occasional raids of the cavern by police.
   The Troll family is often a violent, fragile alliance.
Pops's 10 Troll rules are outlined on a bamboo and paper
scroll that new Trolls must sign. The first rule: Everything
Pops says goes. LSD, marijuana and alcohol are fine, but no
shooting up. Pops has also established a four-tier hierarchy
under which prospects or new members are assigned the most
menial jobs, such as gathering firewood or filling jugs of
water at gas stations.
   Pops deals with wayward Trolls by ordering a collective
beating so brutal it can break bones, followed by banishment
from the Hole. Pops says he and a group of Trolls knocked one
teen-age boy unconscious three times, then kicked him out
after he'd made sexual advances on an unwilling female Troll.
   Last year, Hollywood police began investigating complaints
from private runaway agencies that Pops was a cult leader who
asks minors to shoplift for him and is engaged in "sexual
misconduct."
   "There are rumors that Pops is another Charlie Manson,"
says Hollywood police detective Rick Papke. But Mr. Papke
says the police couldn't find anyone willing to complain
about Pops on the record, and the investigation was completed
without any warrants being issued.
   Faced with the pressure of the investigation and
increasing encroachment by gangs, Pops decided he'd try the
life of a born-again Christian last winter, so he left the
Trolls for a three-month stay at the Christian Lighthouse
Ranch in Loleta, Calif.
   Without Pops, things in the Hole deteriorated. An older
Troll who was in charge sent out patrols to beat up people he
didn't like, several of the Trolls say. He also ordered the
Trolls to snatch purses and rob pizza deliverymen. As the
Trolls began behaving more like a gang, other gangs targeted
them for violence. Teens began arriving at Angel's Flight
with missing teeth, broken hands and knife wounds.
   "It all blew up," says Katherine, known as "Skittles." She
adds that some of her companions turned to Satan worship,
burning incense, slicing their arms to suck each others'
blood and scrawling "Satan Rules" on the walls.
   Hollywood's Hope Chapel, which helped get Pops to Loleta,
says he was kicked out of the Christian retreat. He returned
to the Hole late last spring. There, Pops found his
diminished flock bedeviled by vicious infighting. Pops
reasserted control and began to scour the streets for new
recruits. Then he began urging the teens to make more money
so they can flee the police and gang pressure and move to
Portland, Maine, where, he hears, homeless people get more
government aid.
   "We've got to get out of here]" he bellowed at a recent
Troll meeting, as one 15-year-old female Troll listened and
sucked her thumb. "Our mission: Portland, Maine]" he chanted.
"Our goal: Opportunity]"