Wing-Icing Rules
   Will Be Released
   By the FAA Today
   ----
   By Laurie McGinley
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
To further alert crews to potential icing problems, the
aviation agency also will order carriers to install new
visual aids on MD-80s. Such aids, said Anthony Broderick, the
FAA's associate administrator for regulation and
certification, would be the equivalent of "taking a piece of
yarn two inches long and sticking it on the wing. Under good
conditions, it will wave in the breeze, but if there's an
icing problem, it will hang there, frozen."
   Both requirements are expected to take effect within a few
weeks.
   The investigation into last Friday's crash of the
Scandinavian Airlines jetliner is still under way, but one
theory holds that ice broke off the wing during takeoff and
was ingested by one of the plane's tail-mounted engines,
causing an engine failure. The plane's pilot has been praised
for his skillful landing; none of the 129 people on board
were killed.
   Mr. Broderick said it was too early to know the crash's
cause, but the National Transportation Safety Board has been
urging the FAA for years to be more aggressive in dealing
with ice as a safety threat.
   Mr. Broderick also said the FAA will soon propose
long-term fixes to make both the MD-80 and the DC-9-10 less
susceptible to icing.
   Unlike most airliners, DC-9-10s don't have leading edge
slats on the wings -- a design that makes them more
susceptible to icing, Mr. Broderick said. To correct that,
the FAA will propose requiring modifications that would allow
the use of heated engine air to keep the wings ice-free while
on the ground.
   MD-80s have a different problem, he said. The fuel in the
wing tanks is chilled by low temperatures at high altitudes,
making the back of the wings very cold. As a result, those
parts of the wings have a tendency to accumulate ice that can
break off during takeoff and cause an engine problem. The FAA
is working on a proposal that would require the loading of
warmer fuel from ground-storage facilities into the fuel
tanks; the change would require some structural modification.
In addition, the FAA will propose requiring the installation
of ice detector systems on the wings that would warn the
pilots of an ice problem.
   Mr. Broderick said he didn't have cost estimates for any
of the planned changes.
   A spokesman for McDonnell Douglas said there were 943
MD-80s in service world-wide at the end of November. There
were 123 DC-9-10s in service about a year ago, the latest
figures that were available, he said. FAA directives apply
only in the U.S., but foreign aviation authorities usually
adopt them for their fleets as well.