Petro-Canada Chairman Draws Fire
   For Suggesting Halt to Hibernia Project
   ----
   By Suzanne McGee
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Adding that he isn't optimistic that a new investor can be
found, Mr. Hopper also said he believes the Canadian
government will have to offer tax incentives to attract a new
partner.
   The comments drew heated criticism from the government of
Newfoundland, where more than 2,000 jobs are dependent on the
project. Mr. Hopper also appears to have caused a rift within
the consortium itself, whose other members are the Canadian
units of Mobil Corp. of New York and Chevron Corp. of San
Francisco.
   "Those are the kind of comments I judge to be
irresponsible," Clyde Wells, premier of Newfoundland, said of
Mr. Hopper's remarks. "If you're out trying to find investors
to participate, it seems to me that you wouldn't do something
to deter them . . . It surely diminishes your bargaining
position."
   Mr. Wells said he spoke to other senior executives within
the consortium and that Mr. Hopper's comments are "completely
inconsistent" with the outlook of Mobil, Chevron and the
federal government, which to date has committed C$2.7 billion
to the project through grants and loan guarantees.
   Mobil and Chevron are scrambling to minimize any damage
that may have been caused by Mr. Hopper's comments.
   The 60-day timeframe mentioned by Mr. Hopper is "an
informal period agreed to as a reasonable time frame within
which to assess the market for the remaining share" of
Hibernia, said Graeme Connell, a spokesman for Mobil Oil
Canada of Calgary, Alberta. "No decisions have been made to
mothball the project."
   Charles Stewart, spokesman for Chevron Corp.'s Canadian
unit, said that if there is no interest in the Hibernia stake
within 60 to 90 days, partners likely will meet to discuss
their options. Suspending the project is only one of many
alternatives, he said.
   Mr. Hopper and other senior Petro-Canada officials have
declined further comment on the issue. David Hocking, a
spokesman for the company rejected speculation by some
analysts that Petro-Canada could be preparing to follow
Gulf's lead and walk away from the project. "But it has to be
said that the three parties have all stated they can't pick
up Gulf's share" of the project's expenses, he added. Under
the terms of the partnership agreement, Gulf has to pay its
share of the bill during the eight-month notice period,
leaving about C$750 million in expenses to be paid by the new
investor.
   Petro-Canada is already seeking a buyer for part of its
own stake in the Hibernia venture, Canada's largest,
costliest and most controversial energy project. The field,
discovered in 1979, was scheduled to begin production of as
many as 110,000 barrels of oil daily by 1996. That startup
date has now been changed to 1997, as a result of the
departure from the project by Gulf. Hibernia's sponsors have
said the project could be profitable with oil prices as low
as $14 a barrel as a result of government assistance.
   Petro-Canada has a 25% stake in Hibernia, with Chevron
holding 21.9% and Mobil 28.1%.