International:
   GNP in Western
   Germany Fell
   In 4th Quarter
   ----
   By Terence Roth
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Western Germany's annual inflation eased to 4% in January
from 4.2% in December. The central bank said the decline
could be deceptive, however, coming largely on the effects of
a weaker dollar and raw-materials prices in pushing down
import prices. Germany's inflationary buildup, it said,
continues unabated.
   The economy, the Bundesbank said in its delicately worded
February monthly survey, "has flowed into calmer waters"
after the unity-related boom ebbed in the first quarter of
1991.
   But some economists now see the technical recession in
Europe's power-plant economy as lasting until the second
half. Meanwhile, the combination of high German interest
rates and a sluggish economy handicaps Germany's neighbors as
they fight to spark their flagging economies.
   German economists trace the slump partly to the slowness
in economies elsewhere, particularly the U.S. and Britain,
which depresses orders to Germany's export-oriented
manufacturing industry.
   Taxes introduced last year to help finance the costs of
unity have depressed consumer demand in western Germany. In
the east, the pent-up demand that was released after the
collapse of the Berlin Wall in October 1989 has played itself
out. Despite subsidy flows from Bonn, consumers are
tightening their belts as the region rides out the worst of
its economic restructuring with a 17% jobless rate.
   But don't expect a Bundesbank shift to stimulate the
economy -- at least not soon. The central bank depicted
credit demand, rising at an annual 14% rate in the fourth
quarter, as showing that money supply is swelling unimpeded
by record interest rates or slowing economic growth.
   The Bundesbank said the credit expansion is partly due to
generous Bonn credit programs for investment in the former
East Germany as well as a spate of cash hoarding ahead of the
government's proposed tax on interest income. Moreover, as
the slowing economy is depressing corporate profits and cash
flows, companies are turning to credit financing of projects.
   The central bank again warned unions to moderate their
1992 wage demands after a round of major increases last year
increased western Germany's average unit labor costs by 7.5%
for 1991 alone.
   The German government expects eastern Germany's economic
plunge to bottom out this year, possibly with a 10%
production rise after declines of 15% in 1990 and 30% in
1991.