Year-End Review of Commodities:
   U.S. Recession, Soviet Collapse Are Expected
   To Continue 1991's Buffeting of Commodities
   ---
   CRB Futures Index Ended Year Down 6.5%
   After Slumping in August to Four-Year Low
   ----
   A Wall Street Journal News Roundup
But most of the drama last year was provided by the former
Soviet Union, where fast-changing events sent commodity
prices swinging widely. Russia, the largest republic in the
new commonwealth, is a major producer of commodities, and the
whole commonwealth will continue to be a major buyer. The
upheaval affected markets as diverse as oil, gold and base
metals, grains, cotton, and sugar.
   The Gulf War jolted commodity markets early in 1991-gold
and oil prices plunged when Operation Desert Storm began.
During the brief war, commodity prices declined but rebounded
as the war's outcome became clear, raising hopes for an early
recovery from the recession. But the rally lasted only as
long as the victory euphoria and by midyear prices had
resumed their decline.

   Energy
                                                                                                       

   Going into 1992, many oil economists and analysts are
beginning to review -- and, in some cases, reduce -- earlier
projections on oil prices. But generally the outlook still is
for some firming of prices during the winter, a seasonal
weakening in the second quarter, and then a fairly strong
second half.
   The expected result would be a 1992 average in crude
prices equal to, or perhaps exceeding, the 1991 average level
of just under $22 a barrel for West Texas Intermediate, or
WTI, the U.S. benchmark crude. "Basically, we look for a flat
oil market with the first half the most problematical," sums
up Michael Rothman, a senior energy futures analyst in New
York for Merrill Lynch & Co. He suggests a 1992 price range
for WTI of $19 to $25 a barrel.
   William Edwards, a Houston energy pricing specialist, is
among those still bullish on the price outlook for the early
months of the new year. "If we have a normal winter, we will
see WTI in a $20-$24 range," he says, "but, if there is a
severe winter, we will see it at $25 to $30."
   However, many oil analysts are beginning to hedge by
cutting their price estimates in the wake of the surprising
bearish bias in oil markets since early November. While
actual circumstances haven't changed much recently,
perceptions have. As a result, the pricing correction
expected in the spring may have come early, some suggest.
   In any event, oil prices -- previously expected to remain
fairly firm through the winter -- fell $4 to $5 a barrel,
with WTI dropping from near $24 a few weeks ago to less than
$19. It ended 1991 at $19.12 a barrel, and some suggest
further sharp declines are likely this year. "Petroleum
product prices will continue soft while crude prices will
fluctuate over the year in the range of $12 to $25 a barrel,"
says Norman Higby, a Menlo Park, Calif., energy forecaster.
   Before the new bearish wave swept through oil markets, it
was generally believed that sluggish world oil demand would
rise steadily through 1992, pushing prices higher. It was
assumed the economy of the U.S., the world's biggest oil
user, was rebounding from recession. Also factored in were a
cold winter and further rapid declines in oil exports from
the former Soviet Union.
   Demand did begin reviving some in the just completed
fourth quarter and still is expected to rise further in 1992.
But the International Energy Agency and others are revising
earlier forecasts to trim the size of the expected 1992
demand increases, mainly because of the slowness in economic
recovery in the industrial nations. Meanwhile, the winter has
been relatively mild so far. Also, despite the political and
economic turmoil there, Soviet oil exports have held steady.
As a result, European and U.S. inventories of gas oil and
heating oil have increased to burdensome levels.
   From a fundamentals perspective, according to the Dow
Jones International Petroleum Report, continued high crude
"availabilities" in the physical market, slow economic growth
and the lack of any severe weather in either the U.S. or
Western Europe can be expected to keep downward pressure on
crude values in the near term. "Looking six months ahead, we
are in for a period of sustained weakness," agrees Peter
Gignoux, the director of Shearson Lehman Brothers
international energy desk in London.
   Among the other uncertainties in the oil markets are the
output levels of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries, now near capacity, and the issues related to the
August 1990 invasion of Kuwait by Iraq. Except for Iraq,
whose oil exports remain embargoed by the United Nations,
OPEC has been producing flat out at more than 24 million
barrels a day, the highest level since before the Persian
Gulf crisis began. Kuwait's output is recovering faster than
had been expected after being closed by the Iraqi invasion
and is now expected to reach the emirate's old OPEC quota of
1.5 million barrels a day, perhaps as soon as the end of
1992.
   Iraq now claims it could quickly export as many as 1.5
million barrels a day if allowed by the U.N. So far, Iraq has
rejected the restrictive terms of the U.N.'s proposed
emergency sale of Iraqi oil. But Iraqi and U.N.
representatives will meet in Vienna in early January to talk
about it, and some oil market participants look for Iraqi oil
to begin pouring into world oil markets soon.
   These factors contributed to the recent oil-price
declines, which included a drop in the average of the OPEC
basket of seven crudes from close to $21 in early November --
the base price targeted by many of the oil exporters -- to
nearly $17 a barrel in late December. That, in turn, spurred
some oil ministers to call for an emergency OPEC conference,
ahead of the scheduled Feb. 12 meeting, to set new output
curbs to prop up prices.
   Also, the price decline has led to a dilemma for
oil-market participants. "We are looking at a market that is
fundamentally adequately supplied, but there is no spare
capacity," says Paul Mlotok, an oil economist with Morgan
Stanley & Co. in New York. "If anything goes wrong in
supplies," he adds, "there will be a big spike upward in
prices. But in the second quarter, when demand drops, OPEC
will have to hold two million barrels a day off the market."
                                                                                                       

   Grains and Soybeans
                                                                                                       

   Very tight stockpiles of wheat and corn are setting the
stage for what could be the most volatile year in the trading
pits since the U.S. drought in 1988.
   The impact on prices from routine speculation about bad
growing weather or export deals will be amplified because
there is little cushion in supplies. The U.S. wheat stockpile
by June 1 is expected to be half of the June 1991 level. U.S.
corn stockpiles have shrunk about 70% since the drought.
   So far, however, odds favor a large corn harvest this
year. Moisture conditions are good throughout much of the
Midwest and farmers are expected to plant 2% to 4% more acres
this spring. Based on average yields, the fall corn harvest
could range as high as 8.5 billion bushels, up roughly one
billion bushels from the 1991 harvest.
   The outlook for U.S. crop exports remains lackluster. The
former Soviet Union is a major buyer but its purchases depend
on credit guarantees from the Agriculture Department. Armed
with surplus wheat stockpiles, Europe and Canada are expected
to be tough competitors again this year.
   The range that grain prices might trade within this year
is unusually wide. Richard A. Loewy, president of AgResource
Co., Chicago, says the price of a bushel of U.S. wheat could
possibly be as low as $3 and as high as $5. Some analysts are
predicting that a bushel of corn could range from $1.80 to
$3.50.
   Soybean prices figure to be the steadiest of the major
crops this year. U.S. stockpiles are adequate in the wake of
a larger-than-expected U.S. harvest.
                                                                                                       

   Precious Metals
                                                                                                       

   Gold, silver and platinum all ended 1991 substantially
lower than a year earlier: Gold declined 10.2%; silver 7.4%;
and platinum 17.1%.
   The recession was partly to blame for damping industrial
demand. And, with inflation under control, there was no
reason for investors to buy precious metals as a hedge
against inflation.
   Gold and platinum were also hurt by the former Soviet
Union's troubles. Gold prices fell to the lowest level in
five years on fears the republics, desperate for cash, would
sell massive quantities from reserves. Also, when it became
clear the Soviet Union's inability to service its debt was
growing, traders worried that the country would default on
"swap" credit arrangements, forcing banks to sell millions of
ounces of gold held as collateral. Platinum came under
pressure for similar reasons.
   Some of those fears were allayed when the leading
industrial nations agreed to a debt-relief package for the
country, which took some pressure off its immediate need for
cash. And revelations by a Soviet official that the country's
gold reserves are a fraction of what had been thought has led
traders to believe the Soviet Union, or its successor
confederacy, might not have any more gold left to dump in the
world market. So, the reformed republics are likely to have
less impact on the markets this year.
   Last year was also a time of soulsearching for gold
investors who began to doubt the metal's traditional role as
a haven investment. Two major world events -- the Gulf War
and the Soviet coup attempt -- presented prime opportunities
for gold to attract money from investors who worried about
the safety of paper assets during times of chaos. But
investors ignored gold, leaving traders to wonder whether
gold these days is anything more than raw material for
jewelers.
   Not even the Federal Reserve's big interest rate cut just
before Christmas could breathe life into the precious metals.
As the stock market soared to records in response to the Fed
action, gold, silver, and platinum prices remained in the
doldrums.
   As long as the stock market continues to do well, gold
will do poorly, says James Kneafsey, president of Cambridge
Financial Management, a Cambridge, Mass., institutional
investment firm. That's partly because the frenzy in stocks
has drawn investment interest away from relatively weak
performers such as the precious metals, he says.
   Gold, silver, and platinum will need a much stronger
economy to revive industrial demand, Mr. Kneafsey says. Gold
jewelry demand and industrial uses of silver and platinum are
sensitive to the economy.
   And, at least for gold, inflation needs to rise to excite
investors, he says. If the annual increase in the consumer
price index rises above 4.5% to 5%, interest in gold may perk
up, he says.
   Higher inflation and a stronger economy are both possible
as the election approaches, he adds, as politicians scramble
to rev up the economy.
                                                                                                       

   Livestock and Meats
                                                                                                       

   An expanding cattle herd is likely to weaken prices, after
an overall price decline of about 10 cents a pound in 1991.
   Cattle supplies rose last year, as ranchers throughout the
U.S. expanded their herds roughly 2%. In addition, last
year's tepid prices prompted many feedlot operators to hold
cattle back and fatten them to unusually heavy weights, about
1,163 pounds for the average head compared with 1,126 pounds
in 1990.
   As a result, analysts say, a backlog of beef could swamp
prices on the cash and futures markets in early 1992.
   After that, the fate of beef prices rests largely on the
health of the national economy. Consumer demand for beef, the
most expensive meat, has plunged as shoppers worried about
the economy spurn steaks and roasts for less expensive
products. It will take renewed demand to pull beef prices out
of their doldrums, says Dan Vaught, livestock analyst for
A.G. Edwards & Sons, St. Louis.
   Hog farmers, meanwhile, are likely to increase pork
production to the highest levels since 1980, when a record 91
million hogs were slaughtered. Though demand for relatively
cheap pork products isn't as weak as for beef, analysts
expect the surge in pork supplies to push the cash market for
hogs as low as 35 cents a pound in the spring. After that,
prices can be expected to rally a bit, but probably not above
50 cents a pound.
   There are hopes that the restructured Soviet Union will
buy large quantities of U.S.-subsidized pork bellies and
other fatty pork cuts this year. Such purchases could help to
balance the negative price effects of increased pork
production.
                                                                                                       

   Copper
                                                                                                       

   The red metal fared better than it should have last year,
considering the economy was weak and the prices of other base
metals were depressed. But copper prices were held aloft by
squeezes in the London Metal Exchange that traders say were
engineered by Yasuo Hamanaka, Sumitomo Corp.'s chief trader.
Mr. Hamanaka has said his trading is not speculative but is
directly related to meeting customers' copper needs.
   Last month, the London Metal Exchange stepped in with
trading limits that averted a potential squeeze and prices
tumbled below $1 a pound. For the year, copper ended 18.3%
lower.
   Copper's fundamental outlook isn't encouraging. Demand has
been dismal in North America and Asia, says William O'Neill,
senior futures strategist at Merrill Lynch, and will probably
continue to be sluggish into the first quarter and perhaps
through the first half. Whether demand picks up later in the
year will depend on how well the economy is faring, he says.
                                                                                                       

   Cotton
                                                                                                       

   After a wild year, the cotton market is expected to be
calmer this year.
   Prospects of shortages and planting delays caused by
weather problems sent prices in May to their highest level
since 1980. But as the dust settled across the Cotton Belt,
traders realized just how much cotton had been planted-the
largest crop since the 1930s and the second largest in U.S.
history. As estimates of the crop size rose during the year,
prices fell. From the highs of the year to the lows, prices
dropped almost 40%. Cotton ended the year down 24%.
   Prices were also dragged lower by competition from foreign
growers, particularly the Soviet Union. The reformed
republics probably will continue to aggressively sell their
growths, says Sharon Johnson, cotton specialist at Cargill
Investor Services in Atlanta. Demand will remain static until
the U.S. economy picks up, she predicts.
                                                                                                       

   Sugar
                                                                                                       

   Weak demand, in part because the Soviet Union wasn't
taking its usual amount, hurt prices last year and may
continue to this year.
   Cuba's crop is expected to be smaller because of machinery
and fuel problems. But much of what it does produce will add
to world supplies because of the problems of its biggest
customer, the former Soviet Union.
   Harri Schwartz, analyst at Cargill Investor Services,
thinks the Soviet republics will iron out their difficulties
and return to the market. And Cuba's harvesting and shipment
problems may turn out to be worse than expected, reducing its
crop even further, he says. In addition, current low prices
are likely to attract buyers seeking to rebuild stocks, he
says. All this adds up to higher prices of 12 cents to 14
cents a pound, he predicts.
                                                                                                       

   Coffee
                                                                                                       

   Producer countries tried vainly last year to find a way to
boost low coffee prices through various schemes. Brazil
started the ball rolling by temporarily halting export sales
in March, explaining it was considering a return to an
international quota system. The move sent prices briefly to
$1 a pound. Separate attempts led by Colombia to develop an
agreement among producers to withhold a percentage of coffee
exports lifted prices during the late summer and again in
December.
   But neither a quota system nor retention plan emerged from
the International Coffee Organization meetings in September
or December. And although producers continue to talk,
analysts are skeptical any solutions will be found this year.
Coffee ended the year 12.4% lower.
   Where politics failed, nature may succeed in pushing
coffee prices higher. Unusually dry weather in Brazil
triggered speculation that the crop will be smaller than
expected and helped to support prices late last year. Prices
this year will hinge on the size on the Brazilian crop, says
Judith Ganes, senior analyst at Merrill Lynch. If the crop
comes in at the higher end of current estimates, prices could
slip. But a crop at the lower end of the range could push
prices up toward $1 a pound again, she predicts.
                                                                                                       

   Cocoa
                                                                                                       

   For the first time in eight years, demand is expected to
be greater than production. This result should support
prices, but upside potential will be limited by the lingering
presence of large world stocks, says Ms. Ganes of Merrill
Lynch. She predicts prices would trade at $1,200 to $1,550 a
ton this year.
   But Mr. Schwartz of Cargill thinks prices could rise even
higher. Unlike other crops whose planted acres are adjusted
each year according to prices, cocoa trees don't allow for
that type of flexibility and it will take years to increase
the crop, Mr. Schwartz explains. He expects prices will rise
to $1,400 to $1,600 a ton. If traders build expectations for
several years of deficit into the price, cocoa could rise
perhaps as high as $1,900 to $2,000.
                                                                                                       

   Orange Juice
                                                                                                       

   A fairly quiet year was suddenly jolted to life after an
October estimate of the Florida orange crop by the government
fell far short of industry expectations. Prices soared from
the range of $1.20 a pound to about $1.70 over the ensuing
weeks.
   Prices could go even higher early this year if a freeze
develops in the next few weeks in Florida and reduces the
already small crop. But if one doesn't come along,
disappointed speculators will probably send prices down to
$1.55 a pound, perhaps even $1.35 by the end of this month,
predicts Celeste Georgakis, senior analyst at Cargill
Investor Services.
   Another big unknown is the size and timing of the
Brazilian crop. Dry weather this past autumn might have
reduced the crop size, and will probably delay the harvest by
one to two months, Ms. Georgakis says.