Politics  Policy -- Campaign '92:
   Viewing Presidential Race on TV Brings Home
   Potent Perceptions on Candidates, Medium's Role
   ----
   By David Shribman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
On Wednesday night, NBC correspondent Andrea Mitchell
began a spot on Mr. Tsongas by explaining that the former
Massachusetts senator is often disparaged as "boring,
earnest, terrible on television." But then she set out to
portray Mr. Tsongas, a cancer survivor who has stubbornly
remained near the top of New Hampshire polls, as "a man with
a mission who has licked tougher odds than he faced this
year" and as a contender with "ideas which have already
forced other Democrats to be more substantive in this year's
campaign."
   A day earlier, Cable News Network anchor Bernard Shaw
introduced a long segment on Mr. Buchanan by saying that he
"is portraying himself as the conservative messiah." And when
he appeared live on ABC's "Good Morning America" that
morning, the conservative commentator used his segment to
proclaim that "This campaign is really on the go" and that he
has "A bold vision to replace what they don't have in
Washington." He held up a Boston Herald headline that
bellowed: "Buchanan on the Move."
   Such dynamics -- Mr. Tsongas grinding it out with a
self-consciously down-home appeal, Mr. Buchanan brandishing a
newspaper headline, magnifying its effect thousandfold and
conveying a sense of movement in his campaign -- -have become
important parts of the character of the campaign thus far.
   While the campaign itself is being staged in the villages
and veterans posts of New Hampshire, much of the struggle is
being conducted on television screens. And the view from the
living room, more than the view from the benches of a
community center in a frosty New Hampshire town hall, helps
shape how the candidates are perceived. For that reason, The
Wall Street Journal monitored more than 35 hours of
television news programming last week, including network
morning and evening newscasts and political reports from
Cable News Network.
   Though the only voters who matter in the short term are
those in New Hampshire, which next Tuesday holds the first
primary, television is giving the nation its first
perceptions of the candidates. Moreover, even in New
Hampshire, where voters pride themselves on an intimate style
of campaigning, network newscasts play a role far more
important than generally recognized.
   WMUR-TV, the main New Hampshire television station, is
giving the campaign comprehensive coverage. But its signal
doesn't reach all voters in the state. "If you don't get
cable up here, you don't get WMUR -- so for many people, it's
the networks that shape the campaign," says Robert Kantack, a
Democratic activist in Jackson, N.H., a tiny village deep in
the White Mountains.
   "Sure, the candidates are going to coffees in New
Hampshire homes, but the key events are played out on the
screen," says Paul Maslin, a Democratic political consultant
not affiliated with any of the 1992 contenders. "If you don't
get on television, you're not campaigning."
   Mr. Buchanan's television performances were a classic
example of how media appearances have almost come to replace
rallies and factory visits as campaign events. "The media
coverage is so important that headlines and video packages
now have political importance of their own," says Ralph
Whitehead, a University of Massachusetts journalism professor
who follows cultural and political trends.
   Ms. Mitchell's report was typical of the sort of
television coverage Mr. Tsongas has been getting. CNN's
Frederick Allen, for example, characterized Mr. Tsongas as
perhaps "the first media `pet rock' who doesn't sink like
one." Moreover, a survey by the Center for Media and Public
Affairs, a nonpartisan Washington study group, found that 88%
of the television coverage Mr. Tsongas received in the first
month of the 1992 campaign was positive -- by far the most
favorable coverage given to any of the contenders.
   In an age where the public has grave suspicions about
politicians, Mr. Tsongas has made a virtue of his casual,
unvarnished style, winning over voters -- and reporters.
"Journalists love candidates who are not slick and
conventionally polished," says Robert Lichter, co-director of
the media study center. "There's a competition between
television journalists and candidates over who sets the
agenda, so journalists like candidates they don't have to
compete against."
   Last week, television viewers in remote Orford on the
western border of New Hampshire and in cozy Bartlett, in ski
country on the eastern border -- along with millions across
the country -- also were witnesses to the difficulties Gov.
Bill Clinton of Arkansas is having as he tries to protect his
campaign from charges that he was unfaithful to his wife and
that he angled to avoid the draft.
   Indeed, CNN newscaster Catherine Crier compared Mr.
Clinton's predicament to Chinese water torture -- "a slow but
steady drip of potentially damaging allegations." Appearing
on the daily "Inside Politics" program, Ms. Crier noted
"growing Democratic concerns about Clinton's electability" --
a theme that was prominent in network stories about efforts
to promote a write-in campaign for Gov. Mario Cuomo in New
Hampshire or to press other leading Democrats to plunge into
the race. As CBS correspondent Bob Schieffer noted Tuesday
night, "If Clinton's problems persist, many pros wonder about
his electability even if he gets the nomination."
   Mr. Clinton took further hits later in the week after the
networks picked up questions raised by The Wall Street
Journal about the Arkansas governor's draft record.
   But even with his difficulties, Mr. Clinton is a
formidable force on the airwaves. Reports about
public-opinion polls show him atop the field, in New
Hampshire and elsewhere. Reports about charges against him
crowd out reports about what Sen. Tom Harkin of Iowa, Sen.
Bob Kerrey of Nebraska and former Gov. Jerry Brown of
California are saying on the campaign trail.
   "Clinton is dominating the television," says Mr. Maslin,
the Democratic political consultant, "so he's dominating the
campaign."
   The television study shows that Mr. Clinton had more
coverage in January than all his rivals combined -- but that
he is getting the least favorable coverage of the five
Democratic contenders. "The classic thing is happening," says
Mr. Lichter, the co-director of the media study center. "As
he was designated the front-runner, his coverage is getting
more negative."
   Television coverage of politics, to be sure, can be
shallow and cursory. But last week's programming also showed
how the electronic medium can add texture and perspective to
public perceptions.
   CBS's "This Morning," for example, offered a long segment
on how sex scandals have affected presidential campaigns in
the past, even touching on charges that both Andrew Jackson
and his wife were bigamists. Talking with average voters in
Portsmouth, N.H., Richard Threlkeld of CBS illustrated the
limited political appeal of President Bush's pet economic
prescription, lowering the tax on capital gains. "Even
life-long Republicans who know and like George Bush say that
when it comes to capital gains, voters don't get it," he
says.
   And James Wooten of ABC captured the difficulty the
Democrats are experiencing as they struggle in New Hampshire
to have an impact with their economic appeals. "No one
message seems to have much more resonance than another," Mr.
Wooten reported, "and voters may simply have to make their
choice, as they have before, on their instincts and intuition
about the candidates."
   The difference this time, however, is that television
images may be stronger than native instincts.
   "People here are exposed to more television than ever
before," says state senate Democratic whip Wayne King of
Rumney, N.H., "and people may not even know where their
notions are coming from."
   ---
   Campaign Coverage
                                                                                                       

   Number of stories about each candidate on the three major
network evening news shows in January 1992. (Some stories
dealt with more than one candidate)
                                                                                                       

   Republicans
                                                                                                       

   Bush:                     43
   Buchanan:                 11
   Duke:                      1
                                                                                                       

   Democrats
                                                                                                       

   Clinton:                  25
   Kerrey:                    7
   Harkin:                    5
   Tsongas:                   3
   Brown:                     2
                                                                                                       

   Note: Reflects only those stories that treat these
individuals in their role as candidates
   Source: Center for Media and Public Affairs