Your Money Matters -- Taxes 1992:
   After the Gain Comes the Taxing Pain
   Of Figuring Your Mutual-Fund Return
   ----
   By Tom Herman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Mutual-fund investors generally enjoyed dazzling returns
last year. Now comes the painful part: Calculating taxes.
   Even seemingly routine transactions can often produce
throbbing headaches as the tax-filing deadline draws near.
"This is a fairly complicated area even for experts," warns
Peter K. Scott, director for Internal Revenue Service
policies and practice at Coopers  Lybrand.
   For many people, the knottiest problem is how to calculate
capital gains and losses on fund shares they sold. Even
meticulous record keepers who carefully save all their fund
statements often explode in frustration when trying to figure
out which of the various methods is best to use.
   "It's a very difficult problem for the average investor,
particularly when you have automatically reinvested
dividends," says A. Keith Brodkin, chairman and president of
Massachusetts Financial Services in Boston. Instead of
receiving their dividends in cash, investors often tell their
funds to reinvest those dividends in additional fund shares.
   Here is a summary of the basic rules on mutual-funds and
taxes, and tips on how to avoid some common pitfalls.
                                                                                                       

   What's Taxable. By now, shareholders should have received
forms from their mutual funds with details of how much they
received in distributions last year. Look for Form 1099-DIV
or a substitute.
   Typically, holders receive money from their mutual funds
in the form of dividends and capital-gains distributions. You
have to report any distributions as income even if you told
the fund to reinvest the money automatically in additional
fund shares. Contrary to what may seem logical, the IRS says
dividends declared and made payable last October, November or
December but not actually paid until January of this year are
fully taxable for 1991.
   Mutual fund investors also have to report any capital
gains or losses on fund shares they sold last year. Remember,
you may incur a capital gain or loss every time you transfer
money from one fund to another, either by telephone or by
writing a check. Also keep in mind that the rules on capital
gains apply even with mutual funds that invest only in
tax-free municipal bonds.
                                                                                                       

   How to Report. In general, if you didn't sell mutual fund
shares last year, all you have to do is enter the information
from your funds on your tax return.
   Ordinary dividends included on Form 1099-DIV are reported
on Form 1040, line 9. If the total of gross dividends and
other distributions exceeded $400, report it on Schedule B.
Ordinary dividends include not only dividends from stock
funds but also from taxable bond and money-market funds.
   Exempt-interest dividends, such as those paid by tax-free
money funds, aren't included on Form 1099-DIV but are
reported to shareholders separately. Shareholders have to
report these dividends, along with any other tax-exempt
interest, on Form 1040, line 8b, even though they don't pay
tax on the money.
   Capital-gains distributions reported on Form 1099-DIV are
treated as long-term capital gains regardless of how long the
shareholder has owned the fund. Taxpayers who don't have any
other capital-gains transactions that require them to fill
out Schedule D can enter such distributions directly on Form
1040, line 14. If gross dividends and other distributions,
including capital-gains distributions, exceed $400, report
them on Schedule B. The IRS says upper-income taxpayers will
find it saves them money to report capital gains
distributions on Schedule D and use Part IV of that schedule
to figure the tax. See IRS Publication 564 for more details.
   Special rules apply for taxpayers who received a capital
gain distribution on fund shares held for six months or less
and sold at a loss. There also are special rules for
taxpayers who received exempt-interest dividends on fund
shares held for six months or less and sold at a loss. Again,
see IRS Publication 564 for details.
                                                                                                       

   If You Sold Shares. Gains and losses realized when selling
mutual-fund shares have to be reported on Schedule D. This is
by far the most complicated task for fund investors -- and
the area where it is easiest to make the most costly errors.
   For investors who bought all of their fund shares on the
same date and at the same price, there should be no problem.
But those who made additional investments along the way, or
participated in an automatic reinvestment plan, have to take
into account each full or fractional share received.
   Many taxpayers wind up paying too much tax because they
forget the extra shares bought with reinvested dividends.
Suppose, for example, you invested $1,000 in a fund many
years ago and received another $800 in distributions that
were plowed back into additional shares. Then you sold your
entire stake late last year for $2,000. What is your gain?
   Some taxpayers mistakenly subtract their $1,000 original
purchase from the $2,000 they received upon selling their
shares, leaving a $1,000 gain. Wrong. The correct answer is
only $200. Subtract $1,800 (the $1,000 original investment
plus $800 in reinvested dividends) from $2,000. It's "very
important to keep track" of all reinvested dividends and
retain records, says Tricia K. Bonner, partner at the law
firm of Thacher Proffitt  Wood. If you haven't, ask the fund
to send you the necessary records.
                                                                                                       

   Foreign Taxes. This issue affects investors in mutual
funds that invest in international stocks, bonds and other
securities. Mutual funds are supposed to notify shareholders
if they are entitled to claim a tax credit or deduction for
taxes that the fund paid to a foreign country or a U.S.
possession.
   Sidney Kess, a New York lawyer and accountant, says it is
usually wise for taxpayers to take a tax credit, rather than
a deduction. That is because a credit directly reduces your
tax bill on a dollar-for-dollar basis. But to do that, you
must fill out the IRS's user-unfriendly Form 1116, "Foreign
Tax Credit."
                                                                                                       

   Fees and Other Charges. Mutual-fund shareholders can't
deduct any of the commissions, fees and other charges they
paid to buy shares. But they can usually add these fees and
charges to the cost of their shares.
                                                                                                       

   Additional Information. The IRS has several free
publications that provide useful information for mutual-fund
investors. These include Publication 17, "Your Federal Income
Tax For Individuals"; Publication 564, "Mutual Fund
Distributions"; Publication 590, "Individual Retirement
Arrangements"; Publication 550, "Investment Income and
Expenses"; and Publication 514, "Foreign Tax Credit for
Individuals."
   Vanguard Group's 1991 Tax Guide, a 110-page paperback that
offers helpful advice and handy worksheets, is available for
$5 from The Vanguard Group; Attn.: Tax Guide; P.O. Box 2700;
Valley Forge, Pa. 19482-2700. Stephen Utkus is the editor.
   ---
     Calculating Gains or Losses on Mutual Fund Shares
                                                                                                       

   To figure the taxable gain or loss on mutual-fund shares
you sold, you first have to determine your cost. There are
essentially three basic approaches.
   For many people, the best choice will be the "specific
identification" method, in which you specify exactly which
shares you sold. If you made a profit, you can minimize your
tax bill if you are able to show that you sold the shares
that cost you the most. The IRS can be tough: You should be
able to show that you told your broker or your fund the
particular shares to be sold at the time of the sale. The IRS
also says you should be able to show you received a written
confirmation of which shares were sold, though many funds
don't do this.
   If you can't identify which shares you sold, the IRS says
to assume that you sold those shares you acquired first. The
big disadvantage of this "first-in, first-out" approach is
that the shares you bought first usually have the lowest
cost, so selling them results in the highest tax. On the
other hand, if the value of your fund plunged, this may be
the best approach because it would give you the biggest
capital loss.
   An alternative for some fund investors is the
"average-cost," or "average-basis" method, which requires
calculating the average per-share price for all your shares
of the fund. Once you've used this method, you must continue
to use it when you calculate gains and losses for that same
fund in the future.
                                                                                                       

                  THREE BASIC APPROACHES
                                                                                                       

   Suppose you bought 1,000 shares of a mutual fund at $10
each in January 1990. Then, through automatic reinvestment of
dividends, you received another 50 shares that July valued at
$10 a share; 50 more shares in December, valued at $11 a
share; 50 shares in July also valued at $11 a share; and 50
shares in December 1991 valued at $12 a share. Then you sold
100 shares late last December at $12 a share, or a total of
$1,200.
                                                                                                       

   SPECIFIC-IDENTIFICATION
                                                                                                       

   Sale proceeds:                              $1,200
   Minus highest-cost shares:                  $1,150
   (Based on 50 shares at $11 in July 1991
   and 50 shares at $12 in December 1991)
   Short-Term* Gain:                              $50
                                                                                                       

   *The shares sold were held for less than one year.
                                                                                                       

   AVERAGE-COST
                                                                                                       

   Sale proceeds:                              $1,200
   Minus average cost:                         $1,017
   (Divide total purchase price
   of $12,200 by 1,200 shares. That equals
   $10.17 a share. Multiply by 100 shares.)
   Long-Term Gain:                               $183
                                                                                                       

                                                                                                       

   FIRST-IN, FIRST-OUT
                                                                                                       

   Sale proceeds:                              $1,200
   Minus cost of first 100 shares acquired:    $1,000
   (Shares you bought in January 1990
   at $10 a share.)
   Long-Term Gain:                               $200