Credit Markets:
   Bond Prices Close Higher After a Rush to Adjust
   Positions Ahead of State of the Union Speech
   ----
   By Kevin Donovan and Anita Raghavan
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
The market was waiting for Mr. Bush to announce his
economic proposals last night in a speech that some analysts
have dubbed the most politically crucial of his presidency.
Among other things, Mr. Bush was expected to have announced a
package of measures aimed at spurring the economy, including
tax cuts for middle-income families and various investment
incentives. While such measures would be good for business
activity, bond investors have worried for several trading
sessions that too much stimulus could cause inflation to
accelerate, the budget deficit to widen and interest rates to
rise.
   But according to traders and analysts, the bond market's
apprehension about future economic growth eased somewhat
yesterday morning after the Conference Board reported that
its widely followed consumer confidence index dropped to 50.4
in January from 52.5 in December. The decline was
significant, because it showed that the Federal Reserve's
aggressive easing of monetary policy in late December has so
far failed to generate much optimism among consumers.
   The shift in market sentiment caused note and bond prices
to rise. That prompted speculators to cover short positions
-- or to buy securities to offset a previous sale of
securities -- giving prices an even bigger lift.
   Meanwhile, the employment cost index, also released
yesterday, provided further evidence that inflation is still
on a downward path. The Labor Department reported that the
employment cost index for all civilian workers rose 4.3% in
1991, down from the 4.9% gain in 1990.
   In addition to the State of the Union address, other
events on the near-term calendar could stir the credit
markets this week. Federal Reserve Board Chairman Alan
Greenspan will appear before the Senate Banking Committee
today for hearings on his confirmation to another term.
   In his last appearance before Congress earlier this month,
the Fed Chairman said he thought there was enough monetary
stimulus in the pipeline to get the economy moving again. But
evidence that consumer confidence continues to slide probably
tilts the Fed toward further easing in the weeks ahead if the
economic data fail to show a recovery is on the way, analysts
say.
   Also today, the Commerce Department will release gross
domestic product data for the fourth quarter. A Dow Jones
Capital Markets Report consensus of economists expects, on
average, that inflationadjusted GDP grew at an annualized
rate of 0.4% in the final three months of 1991, down from the
1.8% rate of growth in the third quarter.
                                                                                                       

   Corporate  Junk Bonds
                                                                                                       

   Corporations, including several large banking concerns,
offered nearly $800 million of new notes and bonds.
   Citicorp, First Interstate Bancorp and Great Western
Financial Corp. together issued $500 million of debt in the
public market. Citicorp offered $150 million of 10-year
subordinated notes priced to yield 9.56%, and First
Interstate sold $150 million of 12-year subordinated notes
yielding 9.17%.
   Meanwhile, BankAmerica Corp. said it plans to offer eight
million shares of cumulative preferred through underwriters
led by Merrill Lynch  Co. The shares are likely to be sold
sometime next week, market sources said.
   Anne McDermott, a bank analyst at PaineWebber Inc., says
investors are seeing two types of issues from banks. Most
banking concerns are selling 10-year or 12year subordinated
debt that they can count as Tier 2 capital for regulatory
purposes. Many banks are raising capital because regulators
will require banking companies to maintain capital equal to
4% of assets by the end of this year.
   Others borrowers are offering shorterterm debt to meet
simple funding needs.
   "There seems to be a rally going on in the market, and
that's encouraged a lot of chief financial officers to step
in," says Ms. McDermott. But "overall the levels look very
rich to me, which is why they are taking a while to get
sold."
   So far this year, banks and thrifts have offered almost
$3.9 billion of debt in the credit markets. In the same
period last year, these groups sold $25 million of debt
securities to the public.
   In trading, prices of most investment-grade corporate debt
ended 3/8 to 5/8 point higher. In the junk bond market,
prices ended little changed.
   The junk bonds of R.H. Macy  Co., which plunged more than
20 points Monday after the company filed for protection under
Chapter 11 of the federal Bankruptcy Code, stabilized
yesterday and even registered small gains. Macy's zero-coupon
bonds, for instance, chalked up 3 1/2 points to end at 17.
                                                                                                       

   Municipal Bonds
                                                                                                       

   Prices of municipal bonds ended generally steady to 1/8
point higher.
   Among actively traded issues, the Florida Board of
Education's 6.70% securities of 2022 closed 1/8 higher at 100
7/8, to yield 6.62%.
   In primary market activity, the Brazos, Texas Higher
Education Authority's $101 million student loan revenue
refunding bonds were priced by a Texas Commerce Bank N.A.
group.
   Yields on the Series 1992 A bonds were set from 5.20% on
the serial bonds due March 1, 1994, to 6.875% on the term
bonds due in 2004.
   Moody's Investors Service Inc. has assigned the bonds a
single-A rating.
                                                                                                       

   Mortgage  Asset-Backed Securities
                                                                                                       

   Another week of heavy real estate mortgage investment
conduit issuance is imminent, as yield spreads between
mortgage securities and Treasurys grow wider.
   Mortgage securities haven't been keeping pace with their
government securities counterparts during the past few
sessions, causing yields on mortgage securities to rise
faster than 10-year Treasury notes. This is providing an
opportunity for dealers to purchase mortgage securities as
collateral for new Remics at cheaper levels.
   The $300 million Federal National Mortgage Association
series 1992-37 Remic and the $700 million series 1992-34
announced yesterday put this week's total issuance at nearly
$2 billion. Also, several existing deals have been increased
in size.
   Because Remics are priced sequentially, and the
lowest-numbered Fannie Mae Remic was series 1992-32, there
are at least three more Fannie Mae Remics that have already
been priced that haven't yet been publicly unveiled.
   Last week, "Remic issuance remained heavy, with 17 deals
totaling $6.3 billion," write analysts at Donaldson, Lufkin 
Jenrette Securities Corp. in their latest "Mortgage Market
Analysis." In addition to the wider mortgage-over-Treasury
yield spreads, "The large supply of new mortgage-backed
securities production due to refinancings, and the steeper
yield curve is allowing dealers to create new Remic bonds at
cheaper levels."
   Analysts at Prudential Securities Inc. write in their
"Mortgage and Asset-Backed Market Review" that Remic issuance
volume has been rising "on the expectation that mortgage
pass-through securities issuance will exceed record levels in
the next few months. In the two-week period ended Jan. 24, 26
deals totaling $12 billion were priced," they noted.
   Among actively traded mortgage securities, Federal Home
Loan Mortgage Corp. Gold 7.5% securities for February
delivery rose 10/32 to 96 21/32, Government National Mortgage
Association 7.5% securities gained 15/32 to 97 25/32, and
Fannie Mae 7.5% securities rose 10/32 to 96 15/32.