Weekend Hobos
   Try to Recapture
   A Romantic Past
   ---
   `Beverly Hills 'Bos' Ride Rails,
   Or at Least Talk About It;
   The Secret Handshake
   ----
   By David J. Jefferson
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Actually, it's a hobby among a bunch of people here who,
in their own way, are trying to recreate some of the romance
of the rails.
   There is a big difference between these weekend hobos and
the hobos of old. Consider the name of their group: Beverly
Hills 'Bos. Their monthly meeting place: The bar of a rib
joint here called RJ's. Some have never actually ridden the
rails. Others just take part in an annual group ride. But
there are also some members like Fred Libertore, a
62-year-old painting contractor, who's called a "bridger"
because he says he's been riding the rails long enough to
have jumped steam trains. "I only ride 6,000 to 7,000 miles a
year now," he says.
   Just after the Civil War, migrant workers carrying hoes
across their shoulders hopped trains from farm to farm. "Hoe
boys," they were called, homeless and proud of it. Clark
Gable was a hobo for a time. So was Jack London, and Supreme
Court Justice William O. Douglas.
   Nowadays, real hobos are generally a sadder lot, afflicted
with the same problems of mental illness, violence and drug
abuse as the rest of America's homeless. "This image of
single men heading out alone to confront the future is a myth
that will not die. But I don't think many of the real hobos
you meet would strike you as lusty vagabonds," says Ted
Conover, whose book "Rolling Nowhere" is a first-person
account of riding the rails after college. He says
undocumented workers from Mexico are the real hobos now --
"the modern-day inheritants of the hobo tradition, riding the
freights to find work."
   But like weekend hobbyists who restore and ride old steam
trains, the Beverly Hills 'Bos are connecting with an earlier
generation. They gather at RJ's over imported beer to swap
tales of weekends spent dressing-down in faded Levis, plaid
shirts and bandanas and hopping freight trains for a bit of
recreational slumming. There are maybe 500 members of the
Beverly Hills 'Bos, and about 50 of them show up every month.
The only membership requirement is riding the rails -- or
claiming you have.
   "People do it for the challenge," says Warner Johnson, a
retired stockbroker known by the group as Choo Choo, who's
dressed in a denim jacket covered with patches from the
dozens of railroads he says he has ridden. "You don't know
how things are gonna work out, but things always do. That's
the way hoboing works."
   It's also great fun. "My favorite ride, even though it is
dangerous, is on the rear end of a load of lumber," Choo Choo
says. "You can sit on top, and you have a 360-degree view."
The favorite part for Dr. Poet, a 42-year-old songwriter
named Kevin McKenna, is that "the tracks show you people's
back yards. You see a different side of America."
   These folks greet each other with a "hobo handshake,"
pumping arms like a train's wheels and making hissing noises
to simulate air hoses breaking when boxcars separate. And
they call each other by their "road names," such as Santa Fe
Bo, Tehachapi Bob and Klickety-Klack Klasten.
   "They call me 20th Century Fox. That's because I work
there," says Ellen Gameral, 49, manager of the studio's
script library, who walks into the bar dressed in a black
blazer and skirt, clutching a Giorgio boutique shopping bag.
She says she's never ridden the rails herself, but she comes
to these gatherings because she likes meeting "remarkable
people." She's brought a potential new member tonight,
Camellia Hudson. But Ms. Hudson seems confused. "When I heard
it was hobos, I thought it was an acronym for a professional
organization," she says.
   The group was started by Bobb Hopkins, or Santa Fe Bo, 44,
whose acting credits include bit parts on "Fantasy Island"
and "Knight Rider," and his brother Chet (Hopalong) Hopkins,
46, a one-time photographer of rock stars. They say they
jumped a freight in 1976 when they were broke and wanted to
get to Boston for their grandfather's 90th birthday. They've
been hooked ever since. The brothers formed the National Hobo
Association for full- and part-time hobos in the late '70s,
and started the Beverly Hills chapter about five years ago.
   Santa Fe says he proposed to his wife, Northwest Nel, on a
moonlit boxcar ride up the California coast. He once filmed a
hobo documentary full of such tips as how to hop on a moving
freight ("One mistake and you find out why so many hobos are
called Shorty") and has written a screenplay called "The
Restless Road."
   One hazard is the "bull," or railroad policeman who keeps
transients away. Indeed, railroad executives find weekend
hoboing sophomoric. "They could get themselves killed," says
a not-amused Southern Pacific spokesman.
   The National Hobo Association claims about 3,800 members
and even has its own newsletter, "Hobo Times," put out every
other month by Los Angeles book publisher Garth (Captain
Cook) Bishop, 55. It costs $18 a year, and despite the
delivery problems, Captain Cook swears it's read by real
hobos, who pay just $6. It features pithy "Hoboisms" such as,
"When riding the rails, you're on hobo time, and every day's
a Friday afternoon."
   That was penned by Itchy Foot Stetson (Bob Spediacci), 47,
the head of a local courier service. He says he's been riding
the rails for more than 15 years, with nothing standing
between him and the elements but a foot-long hunting knife he
calls Duke. He doesn't use Duke in anger; it's perfect,
however, for slicing carrots and onions to make big pots of
Mulligan stew.
   The stew is served at so-called "hobojungle" parties,
beer-filled extravaganzas where the Beverly Hills 'Bos mix it
up with full-time hobos at area rail yards. On a recent
excursion to the Santa Fe yard in Colton, Calif., a dozen
'Bos are hanging out with a half-dozen real hobos, sharing
stew and beer. Dr. Poet entertains with his guitar and
homespun lyrics: "Some men sleep in beds. Some men sleep
around. But a hobo sleeps on the ground."
   Tex (Cindy Freeling), 38, warms her gloved hands over a
campfire and pulls her sporty black leather jacket tighter as
she tells the group about her maiden rail trip last year: the
'Bos' annual group trip from Los Angeles to Las Vegas. "I was
on this grain car, and I took off my top and hung out the
door to feel the wind," says Tex, an herbal nutritionist.
   The real hobos appreciate the story, along with the beer,
food and clothes that the 'Bos bring along. But the gulf
between real and imagined is wide -- and apparent. On a car
ride from the rail yard, Dr. Poet is busy pitching screenplay
ideas. But a hobo named Kelly, who has neither a road name
nor a secret handshake, competes by talking endlessly about
swarms of bats attacking livestock in the desert.
   The most recent member of the 'Bos is 84-year-old attorney
Melvin Belli, who says he qualifies because he worked
undercover as a hobo for the Feds in 1933 to discover if
hobos were Bolshevists. (Nah, he decided.) At a boozy
ceremony at an Irish pub in San Francisco, where Mr. Belli is
being inducted, a hulking, grizzled man suddenly staggers up
to him.
   "I'm Road Hog, King of the Hobos, and I rode a freight
train 260 miles down here to see Melvin Belli," he bellows.
   "Well," responds the King of Torts, "I rode to the front
door in a Rolls Royce. I should be ashamed of myself."