Letters to the Editor:
   Look Closer at `Billion Dollar Bill'
His record as the "Education Governor" is also not quite
so praiseworthy. While it is true he has the backing of the
NEA, it is not because of the academic accomplishments of
Arkansas school-children, but because of his pandering to the
education lobby's urging to raise taxes to increase teacher
salaries. While purchasing the support of this
special-interest group with tax dollars, standards have been
lowered, not raised, and many of those students responsible
for the increased college enrollments must take remedial
courses to teach them such advanced subjects as reading and
writing.
   Mr. Clinton has more than "roots on the left," as Mr.
Ferguson states. He is a hardcore, dyed-in-the-wool, bedrock
liberal of the worst stripe: a big-government socialist
passing himself off as a moderate.
   Finally, he is a blatant liar. During his last
gubernatorial race, he pledged repeatedly not to run for any
other office until he had completed his term. Now he has
repudiated the duties of the governor's office while
continuing to draw his salary, traveling and campaigning at
taxpayer expense with his entourage of aides, most of whom
are on the state payroll.
   David Lay, M.D.
   Heber Springs, Ark.
   ---
   Mr. Ferguson warns the business community to beware of
Gov. Clinton because although he sounds good for business,
he's a Democrat. So, in other words, no matter what a
Democratic candidate says, the business community should
simply vote Republican because . . . because, well because
Republicans are automatically good for business, that's all.
   I guess that Republican leaders such as President Bush can
be trusted to uphold their campaign pledges. I guess that
Republican leaders such as President Bush have made sure the
economy grows, jobs are plentiful and business is good.
   Please, Mr. Ferguson, give us businessmen a little credit
for being able to think for ourselves.
   Phil Angelides
   Chairman
   California Democratic Party
   Sacramento, Calif.
   ---
   I don't know where Mr. Ferguson got the idea that J.
William Fulbright was Gov. Clinton's hero. As a former
political reporter in Arkansas, I happen to know that the
governor's hero was that wild-eyed radical Winston Churchill.
   Jeff Waggoner
   Nassau, N.Y.