Technology  Health:
   Japanese Group
   Counters Charges
   By U.S. Chip Firms
   ---
   By Jacob M. Schlesinger
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The U.S. group portrays the pact as a clear statement that
the foreign share of the Japanese market would reach 20% by
the end of this year. The American chip makers say that the
foreign share hasn't budged from 14.3% in more than a year,
and top executives are visiting Washington this week to step
up pressure for possible trade sanctions.
   In its rebuttal, however, the Electronic Industries
Association of Japan said Tuesday it "has been and will
continue to follow through on the Japan-U.S. semiconductor
arrangement -- making every effort to expand foreign market
share in Japan."
   The Japanese trade group complained that the U.S. report
"mentions only the concept of market share," and argued that
the pact is far more complex than the Americans claim. The
Japanese said the agreement also takes into account
unquantifiable issues such as "long-term relationships"
between U.S. and Japanese companies in determining market
openness. Along those lines, the Ministry of International
Trade and Industry will sponsor a special meeting in Tokyo
next month between Japanese chip users and U.S.
manufacturers.
   American hardliners were particularly upset last year by
inclusion in the pact of two sets of statistics to measure
market share, a provision which they said would make it
easier for the Japanese to dismiss American complaints. While
the U.S. government says it favors the U.S.
industry-supported index, the Japanese trade group noted
yesterday that the index they prefer shows foreign market
share at a more respectable 16.2%.
   In addition, the EIAJ statement argued that "the 20%
figure is no guarantee by either the Japanese industry or the
Japanese government."
   While insisting that Japanese companies are doing their
best to buy more foreign chips, the EIAJ also prodded the
U.S. companies to make more efforts to sell, suggesting "the
establishment of additional local design-in centers," as well
as "quick response regarding quality assurance."