Politics  Policy:
   FCC Is Considering Changes in Rules
   That Could Stimulate Economic Growth
   ----
   By Mary Lu Carnevale
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Although the FCC has had a deregulatory bent for years,
the effort to clear up longstanding regulations that
communications companies find intrusive could crystallize
with President Bush's call for federal agencies to pinpoint
and speed actions that could stimulate economic growth.
   Commissioner Sherrie Marshall is pushing at least 12 steps
the agency could take -- perhaps within the year -- to ease
or end rules, spur investment and create jobs. The proposals,
many of which already are wending their way through the
commission, should be put on a fast track, she says.
   Ms. Marshall's suggestions, contained in a memo to
Chairman Alfred Sikes, are circulating with great interest at
the FCC and within the video and phone industries. Ms.
Marshall, the first commissioner to come up with such a list,
has played a pivotal role in shaping commission decisions,
successfully challenging Mr. Sikes and forcing the commission
to go in directions the chairman has opposed.
   Among her suggestions: relax or lift completely the ban on
individuals or corporations owning more than 12 AM radio
stations, 12 FM stations and 12 television stations
nationwide.
   In addition, she believes FCC rules should be relaxed to
allow more joint ownership and operation of local broadcast
stations. Because of operating efficiencies and advertising
packaging, easing restrictions could help keep some troubled
stations on the air.
   Among the more controversial proposals, Ms. Marshall also
would like to see the commission allow TV networks to own
cable systems. The move, she argues, could give the networks
a new revenue stream at a time they are being hurt by the
cable industry's rapid growth.
   The FCC began examining the network-cable proposal last
year, and it has generated much controversy. Indeed,
Commissioner James Quello said he is tending toward not
allowing networks to snap up cable companies -- and vice
versa -- because it could hurt network affiliates and
independent stations. "We'll have to examine whether it's a
boon or a detriment to free over-the-air TV," he said.
   For his part, Mr. Quello believes the commission should do
more to end regulations that stifle American Telephone 
Telegraph Co.'s ability to compete in selling
telecommunications services to big business users.
   Ms. Marshall would like to see revisions to depreciation
schedules for the phone companies. "This should spur
investment in our telephone networks," a move that could lead
to greater use of optical fiber and advanced switching
technologies. That won cheers from the telephone industry.
John Sodolski, president of the U.S. Telephone Association,
said that "any acceleration of depreciation is a plus for
this industry."
   Chairman Sikes, who had asked commissioners and key
departments to zero in on rules that could be eased or
lifted, initiated a review of FCC rules three years ago. The
commission, for instance, is likely to vote by this spring on
easing radio ownership rules and has been cutting through the
thicket of phone regulation.
   Some commission staffers aren't so sure that any changes
can be pushed through quickly, even at the behest of
President Bush. Many commission actions are preceded by huge
turf fights led by well-paid, influential lobbyists. "There
isn't a change we can make that doesn't have a large howl
factor to it," says a top FCC staffer.