Entertainment:
   Murdoch Plays Role of Hollywood Mogul
   ----
   By Laura Landro and Johnnie L. Roberts
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
"Fox is in great shape, but it's our fastest-expanding
business, and we're just beginning here," Mr. Murdoch said in
a telephone interview yesterday. Top on his agenda is a plan
to expand the Fox network from its current four nights of
programming to seven nights a week, possibly within the next
year. He also has ambitious plans to develop cable television
networks to fill expanding channel capacity in the next few
years.
   For most of the last two years, the Australian-born Mr.
Murdoch, now a U.S. citizen, has been consumed by efforts to
pull News Corp. out of near-collapse. After a breakneck
expansion in the 1980s, the company was staggering under a
crushing debt load; with the advertising industry heading
into a global recession, values of media properties were
plunging as the need to sell assets was greatest.
   But in the last nine months, Mr. Murdoch managed to pull
off a drastic restructuring, raising nearly $2 billion
through a combination of asset sales and new offerings of
debt and equity. Though hardly out of the woods yet, the
death watch is over for News Corp., and some of its riskiest
ventures -- including the Fox network and the British
satellite television operationare turning into valuable
assets with real moneymaking potential.
   With everything going so smoothly, the departure of Mr.
Diller came as a rude surprise to investors. News Corp.
American depositary receipts dropped $1 yesterday to $25 in
late New York Stock Exchange trading, as analysts fretted
over the implications of Mr. Diller's departure to pursue
other business ventures. Mr. Murdoch, who has virtually no
direct experience in Hollywood, also raised eyebrows by
insisting he would plunge into Mr. Diller's job himself.
   But Mr. Diller leaves Fox with a solid management team in
place and one of the most valuable new franchises in
Hollywood, the Fox television network. "Barry is a very
important executive, and you hate to see a guy like that
leave the management of a company," says Gordon Crawford of
Capital Group Inc., the money management concern that owns
about 10% of News Corp. stock. "But Fox is in great shape,
and News Corp. is a big global diversified company with a lot
of assets. Life goes on."
   News Corp. remains hobbled to some extent by its $7.2
billion in current debt and by the continuing bleak outlook
for advertising at its U.S., U.K. and Australian publishing
operations and at its television stations. Mr. Murdoch was
forced to sell many of his prized magazine properties, and he
is limited by bank agreements to only minor acquisitions in
the future. But Mr. Crawford of Capital Group says Mr.
Murdoch is a realist. "Rupert remains convinced that the
recovery is not happening so fast, and he's going to have to
continue to sell assets and cut costs," he says.
   News Corp. has until February of 1994 before it's next big
debt hurdle: a $2.4 billion balloon payment. According to
Stanley Shuman, a News Corp. director and a partner at its
financial adviser Allen  Co., roughly half of that debt will
be repaid from cash flow, with the remainder raised in the
debt markets or through sale of nonstrategic assets. In 1995,
1996 and 1997, respectively, another $500 million, $800
million and $1.9 billion come due. That total, $3.2 billion,
was originally scheduled to be repaid in 1994. In light of
the restructuring, "that debt now will be comfortably
serviced by the company, with all options to deal with it,"
Mr. Shuman says.
   News Corp.'s profit outlook, despite the rough economic
environment, also is much improved. Analysts expect News
Corp. to post a 30% to 40% increase in net income before
abnormal items for the year, with results jumping to between
$435 million and $460 million from about $323 million last
year -- and that's assuming no improvement in the advertising
climate.
   Though the company sold nine magazines last year, it still
has the profitable TV Guide, acquired as part of Triangle
Publications Inc. for $3 billion in 1988. However, last year,
TV Guide's ad pages fell 19%, one of the largest drops by any
major magazine. Its average weekly circulation, once around
18 million, is now about 15 million.
   Analysts are heartened by the turnaround at British Sky
Broadcasting Ltd., the direct broadcasting operation which
has produced more than $1.2 billion of losses. News Corp. and
its chief rival merged their operations, leaving News Corp.
with a 48% interest in that business. The heavy losses have
been written off, and some analysts value the asset at $2
billion. Although the operation will report a slight loss for
the full year, it's expected to post a profit for the first
time in the fourth quarter, the company said.
   If Mr. Murdoch has any trepidation about his ability to
oversee Fox directly, he certainty isn't acknowledging it.
Although he has focused most intensely on publishing for most
of his career, he's somewhat defensive about the suggestion
that his lack of hands-on experience in movies and television
will be a problem. "I've been a party to every decision made
for the last seven years" since News Corp. acquired Fox, he
says. "It's not just as if I'm coming in cold."
   Indeed, Mr. Murdoch has been no stranger to Hollywood. In
1986, he and his wife paid a reported $7 million for the
Beverly Hills estate of Jules Stein, the late founder of MCA
Inc., now a Matsushita Electric Co. unit, and spent heavily
to refurbish it. Mr. Murdoch, whose primary residence was in
New York, moved full time to the West Coast last year. He
said yesterday his itinerary will be much like Mr. Diller's,
spending about three weeks of each month in Los Angeles.
   Mr. Murdoch can claim at least one direct credit for a
film already: He produced the 1981 Australian film,
"Gallipoli." He says he has no plans to get involved in
creative decisions, however. Mr. Murdoch is reading scripts,
but mostly with an eye to the budget. "I'm not going to be
casting movies," Mr. Murdoch says. "All the pressures in
Hollywood are for costs to get higher, and my job is to see
that the costs are absolutely kept under control. We have to
be realistic, such as passing on a movie that we might love
to make but don't think will be worth it at $40 million."
   The 60-year-old Mr. Murdoch says he is no longer
interested in finding a foreign investor, such as a large
Japanese company, to partner up with Fox Film. "We wasted
about six months back in 1989 looking for a Japanese partner,
but we may have been too late then," he says. "We won't be
going back -- we're fully capitalized now and just fine on
our own."
   Mr. Murdoch says that he has no plans to bring in an
executive between him and the operating heads. Yesterday, he
promoted Chase Carey, a financial executive, to the post of
chief operating officer, but division heads will report to
Mr. Murdoch. Mr. Murdoch, for example, gave a strong vote of
confidence to Fox Film Chairman Joe Roth. Although Mr. Roth
championed a couple of expensive disappointments, notably
"For The Boys," the studio had the best profits in its
history last year, and this year is expected to be close
behind. Mr. Roth, who was a movie producer before he joined
Fox, is considered one of the most talented young executives
in Hollywood.
   Mr. Roth says Mr. Diller's resignation came as a shock,
but he anticipates no problems working directly for Mr.
Murdoch. "I have every intention of staying, and though I
don't know what {Mr. Murdoch} will do day-to-day, I expect
the company to be operated the way it was when Barry was here
overseeing the movies philosophically."
   But Mr. Roth adds, "These moviesgood, bad or indifferent
-- were movies I greenlit and supervised." And Fox's
relationships with movie makers, such as director Barry
Levinson, "are {with} people who are connected to me," Mr.
Roth says.
   Mr. Murdoch is likely to spend even more time expanding
the Fox network and developing new ideas for cable
programming. Although he declines to say what the latter
might include, "we see several gaps" in programming among the
current offerings, he says. "A few years ago, there were just
20 to 30 channels on every cable system, but that is fast
changing."
   As for the Fox network, its earnings and ratings continue
to grow, and it's expected to post an operating profit of at
least $40 million in the fiscal year ending in June. Mr.
Murdoch says Fox is ready to mount a challenge to the full
schedule of its three major competitors. It has already
grabbed an increasing share of the younger audience with such
shows as "Beverly Hills 90210" and "The Simpsons." Crows Mr.
Murdoch, "We're in great shape."