British Team, Firm
   Think French Deals
   Make Perfect Scents
   ---
   Group Attempts to Pick Up
   Classic Perfume Brands
   In Separate Acquisitions
   ----
   By Nicholas Bray
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
As part of the operation, Apax Partners and a team led by
perfume-marketing specialist David Reiner are buying the
brands and assets of Worth Parfums S.A. from its current
owner, French biotechnology company O.H.F. d'Etudes  de
Participations.
   Simultaneously, the group is acquiring the assets of
Carven's perfume and toiletries business from its current
owners, a French company indirectly controlled by Wasserstein
Perella  Co. of the U.S. And they have bought a long-term
license for world-wide use of Carven brands of perfumes and
toiletry from Carven S.A., the French haute couture company
that originally launched the perfumes.
   Apax Partners said the aim is to relaunch both brands,
bringing to an end a period in which sales have weakened
sharply against a background of successive changes in
ownership and management.
   "These are classic brands that have been around for many
years and they're still around," says Cyril Freedman, a
director of Apax Partners in London. "But they have not had
advertising support and they have inevitably declined."
   Buy-ins typically involve outside professionals aided by
venture-capital backers buying into a target company from
outside. In this operation, largely financed by Apax
Partners, Apax will hold a majority stake in a new company,
Worth PLC, while Mr. Reiner and his team will ultimately have
a stake of close to 40%.
   Apax Partners, formerly known as the MMG Patricof Group,
was a pioneer of venture capital in Europe during the 1980s.
   Mr. Reiner, a British businessman in his early 50s, will
be the new company's managing director. Currently a partner
in a concern producing toiletries for children, he made a
name for himself in the 1980s when he bought Coty perfume
from Pfizer Corp. and Goya from Imperial Chemical Industries
PLC. He revitalized both products and later sold them to
Kingsgrange, a British toiletries manufacturer.
   Worth, founded in 1858, created its first perfume in 1924.
Today, Worth sells Je Reviens and three other perfumes, Dans
la Nuit, Miss Worth and Worth Homme.
   Carven, founded in 1945, launched its first and most
successful perfume, Ma Griffe, in 1946, later extending the
brand to a range of perfumes for women and men. Carven
perfumes are currently marketed by Yardley Lentheric Group,
part of Wasserstein Perella.