Demographics:
   Baby Boomers
   Enjoying Fruits
   Of Rate Cuts
   ----
   By Kenneth H. Bacon
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
For the first time in years, wealth is flowing from older
Americans to the baby boom generation. In the 1980s,
unusually high interest rates and rising housing prices
helped the elderly build their assets, but made it expensive
for their children to buy houses. During the 1980s, income
for those 65 and over grew faster than it did for any other
group. The proportion of people owning their house rose for
senior citizens, but fell in every other age group.
   But last year's sharp decline in interest rates is
altering the economic balance between the nation's largest
generation, the baby boomers born between 1946 and 1964, and
its wealthiest ever, those over 65. "This is probably the
first reversal that we've seen in two decades," says James
Hughes, a professor of urban planning at Rutgers University
in New Brunswick, N.J.
   Nobody can predict how long today's low rates will
prevail, but last year's decline pushed many rates to the
lowest level since the 1960s.
   For millions of baby boomers, a lower-rate mortgage is
turning out to be a big step toward long-elusive financial
security. Analysts say that contrary to previous experience,
borrowers are investing, rather than spending, the money
they're saving on lower mortgage payments. In the short term,
that surprising development could delay recovery from the
recession. But over the long run it should strengthen the
economy.
   Young John Andreas and his wife Ruth cut their monthly
payment by 10% to $900 when they lowered the interest rate on
a 30-year, $86,500 mortgage. But rather than spend the
difference, they plan to continue the $1,000 payments and
apply $100 each month to the reduction of principal. He
calculates that this will enable him to pay off his 30-year
mortgage in about 20 years. "I want to be in a position to
retire at 55 if I want to," he explains.
   Barnett Bank, the biggest mortgage lender in Florida, is
finding that a large number of those refinancing are moving
to 15-year mortgages from 30-year loans. "People are cleaning
up their balance sheets, they're getting strong," says John
Godfrey, Barnett's chief economist. In many cases, the
decline in interest rates makes it possible to maintain
approximately the same monthly payment on the shorter loan.
   Jerrold and Jacqueline Slutzky recently took out a
$144,000, 15-year mortgage at 8.25% interest, replacing a
30-year one at 10.5%. Their monthly payments would have
fallen to about $1,930 from $2,100, but they plan to keep
paying at the higher rate in order to be done with the new
mortgage in 11 or 12 years, by the time their six-year-old is
ready for college.
   Mr. Slutzky, a 39-year-old stockbroker, says that many of
his friends and neighbors in upscale Tampa Palms, Fla., where
he lives just a few blocks from a golf course, also are using
their savings from lower-rate mortgages to pay down debt.
   "This is an exciting time," he says. "It's almost like the
economy is going through a Chapter 11 of its own. We're
reorganizing and restructuring to get ready for the next
spurt."
   Lyle Gramley, chief economist for the Mortgage Bankers
Association, also sees the refinancing boomers plowing
mortgage savings into debt reduction, rather than new
furniture or lavish vacations. "I don't think we're going to
see a groundswell of personal consumption come out of this,"
he says. Instead, he adds, "If you've got an overhang of
debt, one of the most important contributions you can make is
a reduction of debt service."
   This is what Robert and Susan Carpenter did when they
refinanced a second mortgage. Mr. Carpenter, an out-of-work
electronics technician getting through the recession by
driving for a courier company, was paying $325 a month on a
15-year $12,000 second mortgage at 10%. He paid that off by
taking out a new 30-year, $35,984 mortgage at 9%, which costs
him $35 more a month than the old payment. With the proceeds
he not only paid off the old second mortgage, he reduced
monthly payments on other debt by $150, in part by paying off
credit card debt on which he paid 18% interest. His wife, an
accountant, was then also able to cut her monthly car
payments to $450 a month from $565 by selling her BMW and
getting a General Motors minivan.
   The refinancing "wasn't a salvation, but it certainly
eased the pain," Mr. Carpenter says. "My wife and I were both
being squeezed."
   Repeated millions of times across the country, such
experiences will amount to billions of dollars in savings.
The Mortgage Bankers Association estimates that last year 1.4
million borrowers refinanced $165 billion of fixed-rate
mortgages, and that this year an additional three million
mortgages totaling $350 billion will be refinanced. On top of
that, rates will fall on $700 billion of adjustable rate
mortgages each year. As a result, homeowners will save an
estimated $22 billion over two years. For many, the savings
will continue year after year.
   Typically, nervous borrowers try to reduce their debts and
interest costs during a recession and the early stages of
recovery. Then, as the economy takes off, so do confidence,
consumption and borrowing.
   But Brad Edmondson, the editor of American Demographics
magazine, forecasts a different pattern this time. "I'm
convinced that this recession has permanently kicked the legs
out of the free-spending mentality that prevailed in the
1980s," he says. "Then we had incomes that were basically
stagnant, and baby boomers bought themselves the illusion of
affluence by going into debt." Now, he says, the difficulty
of shouldering the burden of that debt through a recession is
overhauling attitudes toward consumption.
   Debt has always divided baby boomers from their parents.
Retirees who lived through the Depression, helped win World
War II and ran the factories and offices that made the U.S. a
consumer's paradise feel they earned an affluence that their
children have achieved only by borrowing.
   Families headed by people 35 and under carry a median
mortgage debt of $44,000. That's more than twice the median
for family heads between 55 and 64, and quadruple the amount
for those in the 65-74 age bracket, according to the Federal
Reserve Board.
   Like many baby boomers, Mr. Andreas says that his father
is appalled by the amount of money he spends on housing. At
2,000 square feet, his four-bedroom house is twice the size
of the one in Milwaukee where he grew up. And he has a pool
out back. "There are times when my father sits and looks at
me and says, `Why do you have this kind of house? How can you
make these payments?' That's just a generational thing," Mr.
Andreas says.