Colonial Refugees:
   Soviet Union's Demise
   Strands Many Russians
   In Hostile Republics
   ---
   Apparatchiks in Latvia Lose
   Their Authority and Jobs;
   Their Homes May Be Next
   ---
   Pulling Down Cyrillic Signs
   ----
   By Barry Newman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
"The Russians are in shock," a Latvian says. "Moscow,"
says another, "isn't answering their letters anymore."
   Near the center of Riga, an old Cold War bomb shelter,
covered in grass, squats in an apartment-house courtyard. A
door leads to a dank, sunken room crammed with shoe boxes,
sweaters, sacks of leather scraps and rolls of cotton
ticking. Space has been cleared for a small counter. This is
Mikhail Litviniuk's office.
   He is 28, blond and Slavic-eyed. Ten years ago, he
migrated to Riga from Siberia. "It's mostly Russians in
business here," he says. "We're doing commerce." He is buying
up goods, that is, and waiting to sell when the price is
right. Mr. Litviniuk would like a decent office, but he has
got nowhere with Riga's authorities. A bomb shelter is the
best he can do.
   "It's prejudice," he says. "I can feel it." Civil-defense
cartoons taped to the concrete wall behind him show B-52s
dropping bombs and mushroom clouds rising. "Russians are like
worms. We can live anywhere. But it turns out I may not be
able to own property. I may not be a citizen."
   "No place to invest money," says his partner, Igor Ivanov,
squeezing around a stack of shoe boxes to lean on the
counter. "It will never be too late to go back to Russia."
   "But I wanted to be a Latvian," Mr. Litviniuk says.
   In the mid-1970s, a pop tune promoted the myth of the
Soviet melting pot. "My address is not a house," went the
words. "My address is the Soviet Union." Few believed it, but
the Russians sent out to the republics to ensure Moscow's
rule found life better there and gladly stayed. Now,
abruptly, they have all had a change of address. Despite
Boris Yeltsin's assurance of granting them Russian
citizenship, going home is their worst fear.
   Yet in the independent republics, "Russians go home" is
the new pop refrain. Russians in Moldova are picking up guns
to defend their turf. In the Crimea, an appendage of Ukraine
where Russians hold a majority, a move is on to pledge fealty
to Moscow. And here, Russians are at the short end of a
Latvian campaign to erase 50 years of unwilling
"Russification."
   Before the Soviet Union annexed Latvia in 1940, a tenth of
the republic's population was Russian. Death and deportation
pared the Latvians to 1.4 million by 1945, and there they
remained. Between 1946 and 1988, 940,000 Russians poured in,
plus 400,000 Slavs who spoke Russian. They dominated the
army, ran the bureaucracy, managed and manned the factories
and cornered the best apartments. Latvians drew closer than
any people in the empire to becoming a minority in their own
land.
   In October, a month after independence, Latvia's
legislature moved to "liquidate the consequences" of the
annexation. It adopted guidelines for possible future laws
that would deny citizenship to former Communists and retired
army officers, to anyone who can't speak Latvian, and to
anyone who has lived here fewer than 16 years. For Russians,
whether they qualify or not, the message is brutal.
   "They were always the winners, they `freed' us," a Latvian
says derisively. "If they don't like it, let them leave."
   The cultural abyss cuts deep. Latvians had to learn
Russian, so even Russians who married them rarely learned
Latvian. Russians and Latvians go to separate schools.
Russian children call Latvian children fascists; Latvian
children call Russian children occupiers. Russians like
closeness and hyperbole; Latvians like distance and
understatement. A drunken Russian tells stories to strangers;
a drunken Latvian sings. Russians hang rugs on their walls;
Latvians think that's boorish. Latvians love choral music;
Russians think that is a bore.
   At the Latvian Movement for National Independence,
Visvaldis Lacis has finished speaking, in Russian, with some
visiting Hungarians.
   "The language of empire," he says as they leave. He has
been a dissident for 45 years. Not long ago, the group he
heads was on the fringe. Now, its legalistic views on
citizenship have been embraced by the People's Front,
Latvia's largest mass organization.
   "We have our prewar constitution," Mr. Lacis says, in
English this time. "We will elect our parliament, and it will
decide the fate of the Russians." Only those with Latvian
roots should be fit to vote, he insists. "Are Germans
citizens of Greece, of France? Russians are not citizens. We
didn't ask them to come. It is not legal entry when you are
occupied, arrested, shot, deported."
   What would he do about Russians who are here nevertheless?
   "Stimulate voluntary repatriation. Otherwise, we Latvians
will see the death of our identity."
   Cyrillic signs are coming down around Riga as the Russians
await their fate. Latvian is the one official language now.
Parliament has pulled the plug on interpretation for Russian
deputies, who have had to finance a service of their own.
Russians who can't understand local television tune to Moscow
instead.
   Stopped from teaching in their language, Russian
physicists from the Academy of Sciences have opened a private
college in a vacated military college. At state enterprises,
where much of the work force is Russian and much of the work
is military, accounts and documents all must be in Latvian.
And Russian managers are getting the ax.
   "Under Soviet rule," Anatoly Belaychuk is saying, "I held
secret information. I had no right to contact Westerners.
Now, they say I'm too close to Moscow to start a Western
joint venture."
   Two years ago, he became Latvia's civil aviation chief.
Today, he sits in his high-ceilinged apartment, out of a job,
having a cup of tea and a Marlboro. He was banging out a deal
to create a Latvian airline, along with Westerners and a
variety of Slavs, until August's coup. Free Latvia's leaders
thought a national airline should be more than half-owned by
a nation. They axed Mr. Belaychuk.
   "It was all an excuse to get me out," he says. "They could
never forgive me for belonging to the Communist Party. I
always said secession would bring disaster. I thought the way
Gorbachev did."
   When he was five, in 1944, Mr. Belaychuk was brought to
Riga, where his father worked on the military railroad. He
has lived here since, never quite mastering Latvian; his
father is buried here. He doesn't know where to go now.
   "I've got ideas that are in great demand in Kazakhstan,"
he says. "I could go to Ukraine, to Russia. In Latvia, I have
no trust for democracy. My family always thought we were here
temporarily anyway. We never bought a dacha."
   Mr. Belaychuk had his counterparts in every republic. He
was one of Moscow's foot soldiers, the closest the system
came to nullifying nationalism and forging a "Soviet Man."
Not all were Russians. Latvia had its own Soviets: Viktor
Alksnis, the colonel who cried for a crackdown; party boss
Alfreds Rubiks, who greeted the coup with "joy and pride";
Boris Pugo, the interior minister who killed himself when it
flopped.
   Nor were all Soviets big shots. Doormen, waiters and every
petty functionary who passed out socialism's candy fit the
description. In a different way, so did the thousands whose
itinerant lives afforded no other identity to choose from.
Esmira Timofeyev is one of them.
   She sits shyly at the end of a food-heaped coffee table in
her parents' living room. On the couch sit her parents:
Galina Sviklis was born to an Azerbaijani father and a
Russian mother in Nagorno-Karabakh, Azerbaijan's Armenian
enclave. Victor Sviklis, a pure Latvian, joined the army in
1952, and served for 33 years in Lithuania, East Germany,
Ukraine, Kazakhstan, Turkmenia, Egypt, Leningrad and Russia's
Far East; he came home to retire.
   Their daughter, born in East Germany 30 years ago, lived
nearly everywhere her parents did. She came to Latvia with
them and married Vasily Timofeyev, who was born here of
Belarussian parents. He sits by her side now, eating a slice
of stuffed carp Azerbaijani style.
   "Of course I'm not Latvian," he says in Russian. "I'm not
Russian, too. What am I?" he asks his wife. "What are you?"
   "I don't know what I am," says Mrs. Timofeyev. "I've
always joked about it. I was taught that there is a Soviet
people, that my homeland is the whole Soviet Union. I wasn't
born in Latvia. I spent my childhood in the Ukraine. I don't
have that Latvian mentality. My father is very troubled about
it."
   She is speaking Russian, too, and her father looks pained.
   "There's something not quite genuine about me," she says.
"Everyone belongs somewhere, but I can't feel it. I'm not
Ukrainian or Latvian or Russian. What does independence mean?
Independent from where? Independent from what?"
   If Latvia models its citizenship law on the guidelines
already set down, Mrs. Timofeyev would qualify through her
Latvian father, but her mother and husband may not; their
abilities in the national language could be too weak. Some
Latvians think that's cruel.
   "Russians strive for the same goals we do," a young woman
says. "You can't alienate them all. It's racist." But Latvian
moderates lack a political voice. "Extremists organized
fastest," says Alex Grigorievs, a member of parliament who
has a Latvian mother and a Russian father. "In the center, we
have a vacuum."
   So do the Russians. They have no political party. Their
only advocates are the former Communists left in parliament
who may be less intent on stemming hatred than stirring
hysteria. Reborn as rights activists, the old comrades have
complained to Helsinki Watch and plan to alert the United
Nations. One of them, Gennady Romashov, says Latvia is
becoming "a totalitarian regime with an ethnic ideology."
   But some Russians may be more unequal than others. The
Soviet Union reversed the patterns of empires past: Rather
than import raw material and cheap labor, it exported both.
Thousands of Russians earn their keep in Latvian factories.
Technocrats and managers might flee as economic doom closes
in, but workers could lose not only a job but also the right
to stay in the only place they call home.
   At the hostel in one of Riga's seedier parts, a Latvian
woman answers the knock on her door. Do any Russians live
here? "Yes," she says, "too many." She leads the way to
another door along a pitch-black hallway. Under the linoleum,
something smells rotten.
   A sleepy Russian man responds to the knock and lets a
stranger into a small room warmed by body heat. It has three
beds and three cribs, a clothesline, and cupboards stuffed
with toys, pots and pans, hair curlers. Three young women in
house robes hold three squirming babies. Another man is dead
asleep on a bed.
   "We were wanted here when we came," says Natalya. Her baby
grabs a plastic horn and toots it. "Now we're immigrants. We
had a hope of buying an apartment. Now it's all ruled out. We
have no right for anything."
   The women, one a single mother, are on maternity leave;
they all make microchips at the factory that owns the hostel.
They won't give their last names because the two husbands are
in Latvia illegally. If the country goes through with its
citizenship law, all eight in this room will fail the test.
The women know it, and they are scared.
   "The layoffs have already started," Irena says. "If we
lose our jobs, we have to get out of the hostel. We could
lose our right to live in Latvia. We could have no place to
go."
   "If I had a place to live in Russia, I'd go back," Natalya
says. "Of course, I'd be sorry to leave. I did find something
here. It happens, you know. People can find happiness in
foreign places."