Commodities:
   Foreign Buying and Announcement Rumors
   Push Wheat Futures Prices Higher in Late Rally
   ----
   By Jeffrey Taylor
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The rumors, coupled with confirmed reports of wheat
purchases by other nations, helped push futures prices up
sharply in the last 15 minutes of trading.
   Contributing to the rally was activation of "stops," which
are preset orders to buy grain futures at given prices. Paul
Georgy, president of Allendale Inc., Crystal Lake, Ill., said
many commercial buyers had set stops at between $4.28 and
$4.30 a bushel for the March wheat futures contract. The
price of the March contract settled up 10.25 cents a bushel
at $4.375.
   After trading, Mr. Madigan did indeed make a significant
announcement. He said the U.S. will let the Commonwealth of
Independent States use $93.8 million in remaining U.S.
Department of Agriculture export credits -- which originally
were allocated for purchase of corn and soybeans -- to pay
for shipping instead.
   This was especially significant because of the large
quantity of grain waiting to be shipped to the C.I.S.
Existing purchases of one million metric tons of wheat,
400,000 tons of corn, 104,000 tons of soybeans, 51,000 tons
of soybean meal and 51,000 tons of soybean oil now can leave
port immediately, said Daniel W. Basse, market research
director for AgResource Co., Chicago. A metric ton is equal
to about 2,204.62 pounds.
   In addition, there were confirmed reports yesterday that
some North African countries, concerned about the health of
their own hard red winter wheat crop, had begun buying
foreign wheat.
   Morocco, for instance, bought 560,000 metric tons of
option origin wheat, of which some may come from the U.S.,
Mr. Basse said. Egypt also is expected to bid soon for
660,000 tons of wheat remaining as part of a U.S. export
credit allotment. Mexico was a buyer of 240,000 tons of
wheat, and Lebanon and Japan also are seen as potential
buyers.
   Moreover, the C.I.S. on Feb. 1 will become eligible for an
additional $200 million in export credits, which it can use
to buy whichever U.S. grain it wants. President Bush is to
meet Feb. 1 with Russian President Boris Yeltsin, with
additional U.S. food aid a likely topic for discussion.
   All this news of confirmed or potential foreign demand has
a strong effect on wheat prices now because wheat stocks are
extremely tight. The ongoing price surges in wheat,
juxtaposed against relatively weak soybean and corn prices,
have produced some unusual relationships among the major
grains.
   For instance, the price spread between March wheat, at
$4.375 a bushel, and March corn, at $2.61 a bushel, is at
record levels, Mr. Georgy said. The March soybean contract
fell 3.75 cents to settle at $5.7275 a bushel, while March
corn rose 0.25 cent to reach its $2.61 level.
   In other commodity markets yesterday:
                                                                                                       

   ENERGY: News that the United Nations would hold more talks
with Iraq cast a bearishness over afternoon crude-oil futures
trading on the New York Mercantile Exchange. Early in the
session, crude prices had been moving higher, mostly on
technical factors. But prices fell on word that the U.N.
would meet with the Iraqis Feb. 5-7 in Vienna to discuss the
possibility of Iraqi crude-oil sales. Crude oil for March
delivery lost 22 cents a barrel to finish at $18.72. Outer
months were lower as well. Under a U.N. plan, Iraq would be
allowed to sell as much as $1.6 billion of oil for emergency
supplies and Persian Gulf War reparations. The U.N.-Iraqi
talks come just ahead of the Feb. 12 meeting of the
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries in Geneva. That
producers' group is already trying to contend with an
oversupply of oil that is depressing prices. Gasoline futures
prices were lower, but a Department of Energy report showing
a decline in heating oil supplies helped the prices of
heating oil for February and March delivery settle slightly
higher.
                                                                                                       

   PRECIOUS METALS: Futures prices ended lower. Gold for
February delivery ended $3.40 an ounce lower at $354.90.
March silver dropped 6.8 cents an ounce to $4.225. April
platinum declined $1.50 an ounce to $344.20. A firmer dollar
and sales of physical metal overnight put pressure on gold,
said William O'Neill, senior futures strategist at Merrill
Lynch. Trading conditions are relatively thin, he said, which
exaggerates the impact on prices of large sell orders. Silver
fell along with gold, triggering further selling based on
technical factors after the price fell below $4.25, he said.
                                                                                                       

   COFFEE: Futures prices tumbled on unconfirmed reports that
Brazilian coffee industry members have decided to oppose any
attempt to revive international coffee quotas, said Melissa
Trout, an analyst at Cargill Investor Services. The initial
decline in reaction to the news triggered additional heavy
selling based on technical factors, she said. Coffee for
March delivery ended 2.2 cents a pound lower at 76.1 cents.