Who's News:
   David Is Named
   No. 2 at United
   Technologies
   ----
   By Kevin Pritchett
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Senior corporate executives who formerly reported to Mr.
Daniell will now report to both Mr. Daniell and Mr. David;
the presidents of the company's operating units will report
directly to Mr. David.
   The selection prompted the announcement of the retirement
of Arthur E. Wegner, 54, who with Mr. David, in early 1989,
had been designated as one of two heads of the company's
various operations. At that time, the men were named two of
the four executive vice presidents at the $21 billion defense
and aerospace, industrial and automotive products company.
Mr. Wegner had headed the aerospace/defense sector.
   The company said Mr. Wegner was out of the country and
couldn't be reached for comment.
   Analysts had characterized the 1989 corporate
reorganization as establishing a competition to select Mr.
Daniell's successor. The company's retirement age is 65.
   "I have a lot of respect" for Mr. David, said Kent A.
Newcomb, an analyst with A.G. Edwards. "Ostensibly, Daniell
made the decision so he could free himself up for more
strategic work and give someone else the operations."
   "It's a good choice," concurred Howard A. Rubel, an
analyst with C.J. Lawrence, Morgan Grenfell Inc. "Either
Wegner or David would have done a good job. It appears that
the rationale for selecting David is that the company wants
to say that it's more than just aerospace; there are a lot of
other businesses that make the company tick. It's been a
horse race between Wegner and David. It's too bad that one
guy had to come in second."
   The question that puzzles some analysts is why Mr. Daniell
tapped Mr. David over Mr. Wegner, especially since their
performances have been characterized as very similar.
   "Maybe Art was too much of a gentleman," said one analyst,
who suggested Mr. David was more assertive.
   In an interview, Mr. David tried to play down the
horse-race metaphor. "I wouldn't characterize this as a
race," he said. "Frankly, I'm sorry to see Art leave the
company," Mr. David added. "We've had very parallel paths in
the company. I would characterize our relationship as
professional, cordial and friendly."
   Mr. David takes command of the company amid an extensive
restructuring. United Technologies took $1.53 billion in
pretax charges against its 1991 fourth-quarter earnings,
resulting in a $1.22 billion loss for the quarter.