GM Planning
   Big Stock Issue
   Tied to EDS
   ----
   By Jacqueline Mitchell
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
GM announced its third equity offering in seven months in
the middle of a mini-rally in stocks of the Big Three auto
makers yesterday. While it isn't clear whether the current
wave of "buy American" sentiment will result in long-term
gains for the U.S. car makers, the movement comes at a time
when many investors have concluded the worst is over for
Detroit.
   Chrysler shares jumped $1.50 to $15 in late New York Stock
Exchange composite trading yesterday on positive comments by
analysts about the company's new models. GM shares were
quoted at $34.125, up $1.375, and Ford shares rose $1 to
$32.75 in late Big Board trading.
   But GM's latest offering indicates that the auto maker
still has a long way to go to repair its battered balance
sheet. GM now has applied to the Securities and Exchange
Commission for permission to sell stock valued at a combined
$2.5 billion in issues aimed at a variety of different
investors. But that may not be enough to offset the company's
expected losses for all of 1991, which analysts estimate will
be as high as $2.9 billion.
   GM has launched a wide-ranging cost-reduction and
restructuring effort in a push to get back in the black this
year. The company plans to shed 74,000 jobs and close 21
factories in the next three years. One of those plants, a GM
spokesman said yesterday, will be the so-called "factory of
the future" in Saginaw, Mich. The plant, in which virtually
all production was done by robots, was a symbol of GM's rush
to automation in the 1980s. But the parts built at the
automated plant cost more than those built elsewhere, a GM
spokesman said. Such cost-cutting won't yield results
immediately, however, and GM needs cash to avoid further
delays in new product programs.
   "There's no question that GM is at the worst point in its
cash-flow cycle," said Dean Witter Reynolds analyst Ronald A.
Glantz. "With stocks high and interest rates low, this is a
good time to raise money this way."
   In the registration filed yesterday with the SEC, GM said
it plans to sell 15 million depositary shares priced $50
apiece. The company would also have an option to sell an
additional 2.25 million shares to the underwriters of the
issue. The yield on the depositary shares hasn't been set,
but analysts expect it will be competitive with Ford's 8.4%
yield on its recently issued convertible preferred. Ford
raised $2.3 billion in November in a single preferred stock
offering that was the largest such offering ever by a U.S.
company.
   GM said the money raised by its latest offering will be
used for the company's general corporate purposes, although
the underlying common stock is that of its data processing
subsidiary, EDS.
   Provisions for converting new Class C shares into GM Class
E common shares tied to EDS, including the conversion
premium, won't be determined until the time of offering. But
GM officials said converting the new depositary shares into
shares of Class E common stock wouldn't dilute EDS's earnings
per share.
   About 41% of the 239 million Class E shares are
outstanding and the remaining 59% of the shares are held by
the company. The company said it would not create any new
Class E shares for the converted shares, but would merely
shift shares held by the company to the public.
   GM Class E shares represent a dividend interest in EDS's
performance. They don't confer an ownership interest in EDS.
   Industry analysts said the new GM securities, expected to
yield about 7%, should be attractive in a climate where
certificates of deposit are paying yields well below 6%.
   "The market seems to have an appetite for auto-related
issues," said Maryann Keller, auto analyst at Furmen Selz
Inc. "You can't get anything worth troubling about in CD's.
That's the reason why deals like this are coming and are
quite successful."
   GM's Class E shares have soared 28% to $57.50 yesterday
from $45 a year ago. But GM's common share is down 6% from a
high of $36.25 a year ago.
   "The Class E common is on a roll," a GM spokesman said.
"The Class E common is more attractive than the GM common
shares because it's experiencing more of a steady rise. The
GM common is a cyclical stock."