Technology  Medicine:
   Generic Drug
   Makers Decry
   Canada's Policy
   ----
   By John Urquhart
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The generic industry has prospered under Canada's
comparatively lax drug-patent laws. But the government
announced Tuesday that it has decided to endorse
international trade proposals for stronger patent protection
for drugs.
   The proposals are part of a draft trade agreement prepared
by Arthur Dunkel, director general of the General Agreement
on Tariffs and Trade, or GATT.
   Canadian Trade Minister Michael Wilson said that Canada
decided to endorse the GATT proposals on patent protection to
help the final phase of the current GATT trade negotiations,
known as the Uruguay Round. The U.S. and other major
countries have been urging Canada for many years to
strengthen its patent protection for drugs.
   In Canada, a drug typically enters the market 10 years
after its patent is filed; a generic copy can enter seven
years later. The GATT plan would add another three years to
this period, meaning that generic products would come on the
market after 20 years instead of 17, the government said.
   By accepting the GATT plan, Canada's patent protection for
drugs would be similar to the current drug patent rules of
many other developed countries, including the U.S., drug
industry officials said.
   Canada's generic drug industry accounts for about 25% of
Canada's prescription drug market, industry analysts said.
Generic drugs are about 30% less expensive than brand-name
drugs.
   Mr. Kay warned that more than 2,000 generic-industry jobs
are threatened by the GATT patent rules. "Millions of dollars
of investments in pharmaceutical research and development may
have to be canceled," he said.
   The Pharmaceutical Manufacturers Association of Canada,
which represents brand-name drug companies, welcomed the
government's endorsement of the GATT plan and predicted that
the generic industry would continue to prosper in Canada
despite tougher patent rules.
   Herb Gray, an opposition Liberal Party member of
Parliament, said the government made a mistake in announcing
its concession on the drug patent issue while trade
negotiations are under way in Geneva. "They are terrible
negotiators, giving up a bargaining chip without getting
anything in return," he said.
   Mr. Wilson said that to assure that the patent rule change
doesn't result in an upsurge in drug prices, the government
will propose increased powers for the Patent Medicine Prices
Review Board, a quasi-judicial agency.
   Federal Health Minister Benoit Bouchard said he will meet
his provincial counterparts later this month to discuss ways
"to work together in ensuring that drug prices remain
reasonable." The provinces have tended to support the generic
industry as a means of controlling drug costs in provincially
funded health plans.