International:
   European Eyes Are on Germany's Wages
   ---
   Many Worry Generous
   Increase May Bring Recession
   ----
   By Terence Roth
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Even allowing for wage-negotiation rhetoric, most experts
view the 1992 labor talks as a deciding factor in whether
Germany can break out of almost a year of economic stagnation
by the third quarter, or will keel into a full-blown
recession lasting into 1993. Major wage increases now, they
say, could poison Europe's largest economy at the worst
possible time.
   Otmar Issing, the Bundesbank's chief economist and a
member of the bank's directorate, says the unions haven't
relinquished their old confrontational style, or adjusted to
the circumstances in unified Germany. "Wage policies still
carry substantial risks. . . . Too often old patterns of
thinking . . . set the tone of debates," he told business
executives yesterday. Indeed, there are few signs of change,
with unions pushing ahead with demands just a year after
previous talks boosted Germany's 1991 unit labor costs 7.5%.
   Unions representing 430,000 western German bank employees
plan to begin full-day strikes to back demands for a 10.5%
wage increase. The latest round of talks with banks broke
down on Wednesday. Now, the 2.3 million-strong civil
servants' union, which spearheaded 1991 wage increases
averaging 7%, is demanding a 9.5% boost, as is the 3.6
million-member IG Metall metalworkers' union.
   Those demands are bargaining positions. But German
industry was chilled last month when steelmakers caved in to
a strike threat and agreed to lift wages 6.4%, far exceeding
the 4.9% level that government and industry considered
affordable. That pact is viewed as a benchmark for future
agreements.
   Brushing aside government and industry appeals for
moderation, the public servants' union's chairwoman, Monika
WulfMathies, terms her union's demands "justified and
affordable." The IG Metall union claims industry is inventing
excuses to avoid sharing the wealth of the 1980s' strong
profit expansion.
   So far, the labor campaigns appear oblivious to an economy
widely seen riding a knife's edge after three consecutive
quarters of negative growth. A world economic slowdown is
forcing German companies such as Volkswagen AG, Daimler-Benz
AG, Fried. Krupp G.m.b.H. and Siemens AG, among others, to
cut thousands of jobs. In January, 7% of workers in western
Germany and 17% of those in eastern Germany were out of a
job.
   Perhaps not since the 1984 metalworkers' strike that idled
German car makers for several weeks has there been so much
focus on German labor talks. In addition to the economy and
German competitiveness at a time of collapsing trade
surpluses, at stake is whether Germany can cut interest rates
soon.
   "The arguments in favor of an economic turnaround in the
course of this year aren't very strong, and they were further
weakened by the first pay settlements," says Martin W.
Huefner, chief economist at Bayerische Vereinsbank AG in
Munich. A strong, U.S.-led world-wide recovery in 1992 might
help cancel out the effects of German wage increases, but
U.S. economists are predicting a slow, shallow comeback at
best.
   Germany's struggle with the costs of unification, a
sluggish economy and troublesome unions are unnerving other
economies dependent on the nation's economic engine and
closely tied to its monetary policy mechanisms. French
Finance Minister Pierre Beregovoy, remarking yesterday on the
prolonged German slowdown, was quoted as saying, "Signals of
recession should lead the German authorities, who have
serious difficulties . . . to be more attentive to what their
partners are saying."
   The statement amounted to another appeal for Germany to
lower its interest rates in order to stimulate its inert
economy and to provide room for its allies to do the same
without crippling their currencies. But one reason the
Bundesbank can't, or won't, lower rates is the threat of
back-to-back wage increases, which the bank sees as fueling
already overheating money supply growth.
   So why are unions pressing for wage increases in a country
where workers already are the best paid in the world, with
wages about 30% more than their U.S. and Japanese
counterparts? German labor analysts say long-term wage
programs of the big unions can't easily be swung around to
meet the changing economic environment. In 1974, for example,
the unions ignored the emerging oil-price crisis to wring out
double-digit wage increases, pushing what was then West
Germany into a prolonged recession.
   "By then it was too late," says Mr. Huefner, the Munich
bank economist.