International:
   Japanese Stress
   No Promise Made
   To Buy U.S. Autos
   ----
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
Mr. Miyazawa told NHK television that the summit
announcement that Japanese auto makers would try to import
nearly 20,000 Big Three vehicles and $19 billion more in auto
parts was "a target rather than a firm promise." The Big
Three are Ford Motor Co., General Motors Corp. and Chrysler
Corp.
   The announcement was "a kind of forecast of how many U.S.
automobiles and parts Japan would definitely be able to
purchase by 1994," he said in the interview. Mr. Miyazawa's
remarks are consistent with those made by other Japanese
government and business officials who have stressed that the
import projections were voluntary corporate goals -- not a
national committment. But many Japanese have expressed
concern that U.S. officials would view the figures as a
binding committment. Mr. Miyazawa's remarks were apparently
intended to dispel that impression.
   Mr. Toyoda, who heads Japan's largest auto maker, in a
separate interview said Toyota "will study and consider the
possibility of selling GM cars. It is too much to say we will
actually sell them."
   The Japanese and the Americans have viewed the "targets"
differently from the outset. J. Michael Farren, U.S.
undersecretary of commerce for international trade, said: "It
is not unusual for Japanese government officials to make what
looks like a fairly basic commitment and then qualify it
heavily at a later date." Still, he said, there will be "a
very negative reaction here in the U.S. if they don't
expeditiously move to meet and exceed the goals."
   Because of the Martin Luther King Jr. holiday, auto
executives couldn't be reached for comment.
   During the four-day summit, which ended Jan. 10, Toyota
announced it was setting a target of selling as many as 5,000
GM vehicles a year through its dealerships. Japan's other
four major auto makers -- Nissan Motor Co., Honda Motor Co.,
Mazda Motor Corp. and Mitsubishi Motors Corp. -- separately
set targets totaling about 15,000 more vehicles.
   But in the aftermath of a meeting with their U.S.
counterparts, the so-called Big Five have expressed doubts
that Japanese consumers will buy U.S. cars.
   Separately, a senior Japanese lawmaker placed the blame
for the U.S.-Japan trade imbalance on what he described as
inferior U.S. workers.
   "American workers don't work hard enough. They don't work
but demand high pay," the Japanese press quoted Yoshio
Sakurauchi, speaker of the House of Representatives, as
saying. His aide, Tadahiro Mishima, confirmed the general
content of the reports of Mr. Sakurauchi's speech to
supporters in western Japan. But he denied the specific
portion of the reports in the nationally circulated
newspapers Yomiuri and Mainichi that quoted Mr. Sakurauchi as
saying managers in the U.S. can't give written orders because
about one-third of U.S. workers are illiterate.
   In a separate auto-related development, Toyota said it
will break one link in its traditional "keiretsu" relations
with its auto parts affiliates and buy 240,000 electronic
fuel injection sensors a year from Hitachi Ltd.
   Hitachi, a Japanese electronics manufacturer, is a member
of a rival keiretsu, or corporate group, that includes
Toyota's chief rival, No. 2 auto maker Nissan.