Technology  Health:
   Rogers Cantel Set
   For Conversion
   To Digital System
   ----
   By Suzanne McGee
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Cantel's entire system is scheduled to be converted to
higher-quality digital capability by March 1993, said Roger
Keay, vice president, technology, of Rogers Communications
Inc., a telecommunications concern that holds an 84% stake in
Cantel.
   "This will offer our customers a lot of features, such as
clearer and more secure communications and over the longer
term will help control the costs of expanding the network,"
Mr. Keay said.
   Cantel is one of the first cellular phone concerns to
announce a switch to digital and is quicker than most to
convert its entire system, industry officials said.
   "This is a very aggressive schedule," said Norman Black,
spokesman for the Cellular Telecommunications Industry
Association in Washington. Mr. Black noted that the few U.S.
cellular phone companies that have announced their intentions
of offering digital service to customers are starting their
conversions in large markets first in order to expand the
capacity of their systems.
   McCaw Cellular Communications Inc. has said customers in
New York, Los Angeles and Miami will receive digital service
by the third quarter of 1992, but that markets in the Rocky
Mountain states and central U.S. states will have to wait
until mid-1993 to take advantage of a digital network. McCaw
and Cantel have announced plans to link their systems to
allow international call delivery beginning next month.
   Analysts say they expect Cantel's announcement to give the
company at least a temporary marketing edge over regional
Canadian competitors, such as BCE Mobile Communications Inc.
of Montreal, since digital networks offer more clarity,
privacy and error-free data transmission capability.
   Both Rogers and Cantel are based in Toronto. Ericsson GE
Mobile Communications, based in Paramus, N.J., is 60% owned
by Sweden's L.M. Ericsson Telephone Co. and 40% by General
Electric Co. of Fairfield, Conn. McCaw, a cellular phone
concern, is based in Kirkland, Wash.