International:
   Philip Morris Is Hot in Eastern Germany
   ---
   Preserving Local Smokes' Bad
   Old Features Spurs Sales
   ----
   By Timothy Aeppel
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
So while competitors were revamping East German brands to
make them taste more like milder "American blend" cigarettes,
Philip Morris bought a crumbling factory in Dresden and kept
it churning out its strong-tasting, high-tar products with
few changes. Philip Morris even kept the frumpy East German
packaging.
   It was a risky move, but it worked. Philip Morris now has
the top-selling cigarette in eastern Germany, a harsh-tasting
holdover called F-6, and more than 45% of the regional
market.
   Philip Morris's experience in Eastern Europe is in strong
contrast to its operations in other countries. Cancer fears,
health regulations and product-liability worries,
particularly in the U.S., are pushing cigarette companies
elsewhere to make their products less noxious. But in former
East Germany and around Eastern Europe, the bad old features
of cigarettes have turned out to be a main selling point.
Germans, both western and eastern, are health conscious, but
seem more tolerant than Americans of risky activities such as
smoking in general and smoking high-tar, high-nicotine
cigarettes in particular.
   "People here are still accustomed to a strong,
full-flavored cigarette, and they're not going to give it up
overnight," says Mr. Fluri, using the industry's code words
for cigarettes high in tar and nicotine. Anyhow, the company
says, Philip Morris has carried the eastern Germans a big
step forward by printing health warnings on its packages,
something that never appeared under communism.
   It's just another quirk of selling in this new market of
16 million people. After the Iron Curtain ripped open, East
Germans rushed to buy foreign goods. Just about anything
imported from the West, whether cars or yogurt, was deemed
superior to domestic brands. That included a rush to
experience the mystique of once nearly unobtainable Western
cigarettes. Philip Morris's heavily promoted Marlboro brand
is still a leading seller in the region.
   But while easterners continue to prefer some Western
consumer products, a certain backlash has developed in favor
of familiar old brands. Local eastern German breweries, for
instance, have gained market share as they've obtained access
to better-quality materials and packaging.
   Price is also a factor. Eastern German cigarette brands
sell for about 60 pfennigs (37 U.S. cents) less than Western
brands, which sell for about four marks ($2.54), and there
are similar discounts for local beers and even local
newspapers. Eastern German consumers also have realized that
their love affair with Western products was jeopardizing
local jobs.
   In the case of cigarettes, the simple fact seems to be
that smokers in eastern Germany are caught in a time warp.
The U.S., Europe and many other parts of the world have been
moving toward tobacco blends that are lower in tar and
nicotine but require advanced processing to add "flavor." But
that never reached Eastern Europe. Small numbers of Western
cigarettes were sold in the region before the revolution, but
only in special stores where customers paid in hard currency.
   Mr. Fluri says Philip Morris started scouting the East
German market as soon as it began to open in the autumn of
1989. The company quickly focused on Dresden, the
cigarette-making capital of prewar Germany. Parts of the
factory that Philip Morris bought were built as early as
1900; it has stained-glass windows and iron stair railings.
But almost all the equipment needs to be replaced or updated.
   The company's basic aim was to defend its leadership
position in Germany's enlarged market, which consumes 146
billion cigarettes a year. Philip Morris accounts for 33% of
the western German cigarette market-dominated by Marlboro.
The company's factories in Munich and West Berlin already
were working at capacity so it would need new plants anyway.
   The decision to stick by the old brand was also cost
effective; it allowed Philip Morris to accelerate production
without waiting for costly changes in manufacturing. The
Dresden plant spit out 12 billion cigarettes last year -- or
20% more than it produced before the takeover.
   Some basic changes are unavoidable. Cigarette makers
investing in eastern Germany have a grace period, until Jan.
1, 1993, to meet European Community regulations on tar and
nicotine levels, as well as a new standard for warning
labels. Philip Morris decided to make the changes slowly, to
avoid shocking consumers with a sudden shift in taste.
Moreover, company officials insist they won't have problems
adjusting to the tar and nicotine limits. They say they have
edged the level close to the requirements already.
   The only restriction in the meantime is that eastern
German cigarettes can't be sold in the West because they
don't meet EC standards, but Western cigarettes can be sold
in the East.
   If the company had any doubts about its approach, they
were wiped away after it saw what happened to one of its
leading competitors. Germany's Reemtsma Ci garettenfabriken
G.m.b.H. bought Cabinet, East Germany's top-selling brand.
But the company purchased the name, not the factory. It
shifted production to a Western plant and altered the taste
to match Western standards. Sales plummeted.
   "Part of this might be a backlash by East Germans against
the label being pulled out of its old factory," says a Bonn
Economics Ministry official. But the company also appears to
have badly misjudged eastern German tastes.
   Philip Morris seized on the debacle to push its own
products even harder. The company's advertising campaign for
F-6 adopted the slogan "F-6: The taste remains." The company
also developed campaigns for the factory's less-popular
brands, using targeting techniques most eastern Germans had
never seen before. The Karo brand, for instance, was
developed as a cigarette for "rugged individualists and
intellectuals." One advertisement shows a set of eggs, all
exactly alike, except for one that is checkered to resemble
the Karo cigarette package.
   Philip Morris doesn't break down profits for individual
units, but it says that the eastern German operations made
money in 1991. Net earnings for the entire Munich-based
subsidiary were 250 million marks ($158.5 million) on 9.1
billion marks in sales last year.