You Say Potato,
   I Say Vital Supply
   Of Plant Germplasm
   ---
   At the Potato Center in Peru,
   Old Varieties Are Guarded
   And New Ones Invented
   ----
   By Thomas Kamm
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Four years later, when the villagers of Huancapi returned
to their abandoned farms and wrecked homes, they contacted
the Centro Internacional de la Papa (CIP), or International
Potato Center here. Agents of the CIP earlier had collected
seeds from the village and stored them away as part of its
world potato collection (300 different species, 4,500
different varieties). They were able to restore many of
Huancapi's unique potatoes to cultivation.
   When a Wall Street Journal reporter visited the CIP 15
years ago and wrote about its activities, the center was busy
preparing for just such a genetic crisis. Carlos Ochoa,
potato hunter, was trekking all over South America at
considerable personal risk to gather as many potato varieties
as possible before they were lost to disease, development or
desertification.
   On one expedition, Mr. Ochoa was collecting wild potatoes
in the mountains of Northern Peru when he says he suddenly
heard someone scream from above: "Catch him alive]" Mr. Ochoa
fired shots into the air. The attackers responded by rolling
rocks down the mountain, but Mr. Ochoa managed to hide in a
trench and then ran away. "They must have thought I was a
treasure hunter," says Mr. Ochoa. "And they were right.
Potatoes are much more precious than a jewel."
   It is the same spirit that has animated many of history's
seed-bank guardians, from the swashbuckling plant explorers
of the 1920s to the heroic scientists of Leningrad's
Institute of Plant Industry -- who, under Hitler's siege,
starved to death one by one rather than eat any of the
samples of rice, peas, corn and wheat that guaranteed their
countrymen's postwar food supply.
   By now the CIP has collected most of the known potato
species (three of them, or about 1% of the world's potatoes,
are named after Mr. Ochoa), and the center is turning its
attention to the production of new strains to fend off the
possibility of large-scale famine as the globe's population
increases.
   Perhaps the most exciting potato in the CIP at the moment
is the "hairy potato." By cross-breeding domestic varieties
with a wild Bolivian potato species called Solanum
berthaultii, which is inedible and has hairy foliage, the
CIP-working jointly with Cornell University -- has come up
with an edible potato that is resistant to all major potato
pests and costs less to produce. "Insects get trapped in the
hair and die," explains Dr. Ali Golmirzaie, a geneticist here
who works on the project. "The hairy potato saves costs by
reducing the need for pesticides."
   "You should make clear that the hair isn't on the
potatoes," says K.V. Raman, a CIP entomologist. "It's on the
foliage."
   While it works within the Consultative Group on
International Agricultural Research, a group of 16 centers
that look into increasing all the world's major crops, the
CIP thinks its product has an edge. The potato yields more
nutritious food faster, on less land and in more varied
climates than any other major crop, it says. One acre of
potatoes can yield 50% more calories than an acre of grain.
   So CIP scientists, with an annual budget of $18 million
coming from governments and multilateral organizations, are
hard at work discovering ways to produce potatoes that can
grow anywhere, resist diseases, mature quickly, store well
and generate regular yields without extensive pesticides or
fertilizer use.
   "What's in this room is indispensable," says John Dodds,
head of genetic resources at the CIP as he shows a visitor
into a "growth room" and then opens a door into an adjoining,
similar room where the ambient temperature is 6 degrees
Celsius. "You probably have here about 80% of the potatoes
known to mankind."
   In fact, there is not a single potato in the room, but
rather a sort of collection of potato bonsais. The room is
filled with rows and rows of shelves that house collections
of hermetically sealed test tubes. Inside the test tubes is
the seed material, or germplasm, of most of the existing
potato varieties -- in triplicate, just in case. The storage
rooms are earthquake-proof. Terrorists have twice attacked
the CIP's field station in the town of Huancayo, without
explaining why. The potato center considered moving to
neighboring Ecuador after the attacks, but instead simply
moved some of its activities -- and copies of its collection
-- there.
   Within a few years, the potato on your plate might well
have originated in a laboratory where scientists, through
genetic engineering, have introduced desirable traits or
eliminated diseases. For instance, the CIP is currently
working on transplanting synthetic genes, or genes from
certain silk moths, into potatoes to eliminate a variety of
pests. "We're genetically engineering the potato plant to
contain genes whose toxins kill the potato tuber moth," says
Peter Gregory, the CIP's research director. The CIP is also
engineering potatoes that are resistant to drought or heat or
have higher salt tolerance. But Mr. Gregory says it could be
about five years before these potatoes are "actually on the
table" because of regulatory and safety uncertainties
surrounding biotechnology.
   Meanwhile, the CIP is also working hard on natural methods
to eliminate pests by developing biological pesticides,
friendly fungi, pest-devouring bacteria or aphrodisiac traps
that protect potatoes. "What we're looking for is integrated
pest management," says Mr. Raman.
   Recent finds include the beauveria brongniartii, an
insect-killing fungus, made from residues of barley husk,
that is cheap and provides "excellent weevil control," Mr.
Raman says. Potato losses from weevil damage in the Andean
countries of Peru, Bolivia, Colombia and Ecuador are
estimated at $17 million a year, and Mr. Raman says things
like the fungus he has developed could save potato farmers
$105 million in pesticide annually.
   Potato authorities here say all this research is already
paying off. Third World potato production is rising, and new
countries, like Bhutan or Madagascar, are becoming producers
thanks to the CIP's regional offices that disseminate its
findings. "The potato," says Gregory Scott, a CIP
agricultural economist, "is coming into its own."