Alaska Governor Launches Legal Assault
   On U.S. Agencies Over State's Resources
   ----
   By Charles McCoy
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Mr. Hickel's intention is to win the state more power to
develop the resources, force the agencies to develop them
more aggressively or make the federal government pay Alaska
for revenue the state says it's losing as a result of federal
restrictions. That could amount to billions of dollars, the
governor's staff says.
   The outcome of the governor's legal crusade won't be known
for years, and some resource attorneys think it is quixotic.
Still, because of Alaska's unique position as the repository
of some of the nation's last great stores of economically
important raw materials, as well as much of its remaining
wilderness, the legal campaign will be closely watched by
environmentalists and pro-development groups across the
country.
   Some environmentalists are already alarmed about what
might happen if the governor succeeds in court. "In general,
the federal agencies have acted more strongly to protect
natural resources than the state," said Tom Waldo, a staff
attorney for the Sierra Club Legal Defense Fund in Anchorage.
"In particular, we don't feel that Gov. Hickel has been a
friend of the environment." Beyond that, a court victory for
Alaska would invite similar challenges to the resource
agencies' authority in other states.
   In the initial suit, the state alleges that federal
agencies managing certain Alaska waterways and lands
adjoining them, including the rich and scenic Glacier Bay
area, have improperly restricted commercial fishing and other
activities. The suit charges that the agencies' actions
violate both the federal Alaska National Lands Conservation
Act and the Alaska Statehood Compact, the agreement that
governed Alaska's entry into the union in 1959.
   The suit names as plaintiffs the Secretary of the Interior
and the Secretary of Agriculture, among others. An Interior
Department spokesman said the agency has been negotiating
with the state over the issue and hopes to come to some
agreement, but added that "the governor is trying to force
the issue, and that isn't going to get it resolved any
sooner." None of the other plaintiffs could be reached for
comment. The governor has said the state also intends to sue
the government over the ban on exporting North Slope crude
oil, and has promised other lawsuits attacking various
aspects of federal management of land and resources in
Alaska. A spokesman for the governor said some of the
additional suits will be filed in a matter of weeks.
   The federal government owns about 212 million of Alaska's
365 million acres of land, including such environmentally
sensitive areas as the 17 million acre Tongass National
Forest and the 19 million acre Arctic National Wildlife
Refuge. Federal environmental regulations have put much of
the Tongass off limits to loggers, and Congress recently
rebuffed another effort by the oil industry to gain clearance
to drill for the huge oil deposits ANWR may hold. An aide to
the governor cited both areas as examples where federal
controls may have deprived Alaska of billions of dollars of
potential royalties, fees and other revenue.