Arbitrators Rule
   Prudential Brokers
   Churned Account
   ----
   By Michael Siconolfi
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The award, by a three-member panel of the American
Arbitration Association, is one of the largest ever levied
against a brokerage firm in a dispute with a customer.
   "The amount surprises me," said Richard P. Ryder, editor
of the Securities Arbitration Commentator, a Maplewood, N.J.,
newsletter. "It's hefty."
   A spokesman for Prudential Securities, a unit of
Prudential Insurance Co. of America, said, "We think the
award is unwarranted, incorrect and unsubstantiated by the
facts. We are considering appealing."
   The case was filed last year by David and Virginia Smith,
a retired Coronado, Calif., couple. They alleged that former
Prudential brokers Stanley Longworth and Howard Rose, along
with former San Diego branch manager David Utter, assured
them their account was being handled in a responsible manner.
   Mr. Longworth persuaded the Smiths that the best way to
make money was to trade actively and "catch the dips" in
market prices, according to Bradd Milove, the Smiths'
attorney in San Diego. But the amount of trading was
excessive and some investments were unsuitable for people
like the Smiths, the arbitrators found.
   During one 12-month period between March 1987 and July
1990, the Smiths alleged, their account was reinvested a
total of 72 times. In another nine-month period, the brokers
generated $625,000 in commissions on commodities trading
alone, according to papers filed with arbitrators. During one
particularly heavy day of trading, commissions totaled
$18,000.
   A three-member panel of the American Arbitration
Association ruled that Prudential must pay about $1.4
million, including $600,000 in "exemplary" damages, which
typically are awarded to punish and deter a defendant. Mr.
Longworth, who knew the Smiths through common membership in a
yacht club, was ordered to pay about $300,000 and Mr. Rose
was ordered to pay $112,000. Mr. Utter, then-branch manager
of Prudential's San Diego office, was ordered to pay almost
$100,000.
   Messrs. Longworth and Rose no longer work at the firm; Mr.
Utter now is a broker in the firm's San Diego office. None of
them could be reached for comment.
   In a separate but also large arbitration case, a former
PaineWebber Group Inc. executive was awarded $1 million after
an arbitration panel found that PaineWebber defamed him.
   Barry Berkeley joined PaineWebber in November 1989 to head
its mortgage-backed securities sales division as a national
sales manager. He was promoted to managing director, a senior
post, in March 1990. One month later, Mr. Berkeley was fired
after returning from a two-day vacation, according to Jeffrey
Liddle, a New York attorney who handled the bulk of Mr.
Berkeley's arbitration hearings.
   Mr. Berkeley alleged that senior officials in
PaineWebber's bond department told employees and Wall Street
competitors that he was fired for poor performance and taking
an unauthorized vacation. The officials also told prospective
employers that Mr. Berkeley had a "compliance problem" and
had to be physically removed from PaineWebber's trading floor
when he was fired because he was "ranting and raving,"
according to papers filed with arbitrators.
   A three-member panel of the National Association of
Securities Dealers ruled that Mr. Berkeley should receive $1
million for "defamation, interference with prospective
advantage, and injurious falsehood." In finding that
PaineWebber improperly fired Mr. Berkeley, the executive was
allowed to keep $775,000 in advance pay that PaineWebber
sought to keep.
   In a statement, PaineWebber said Mr. Berkeley's five
months at the firm "involved numerous internal conflicts
regarding the administration" of the firm's mortgage-backed
securities department. The firm also noted that Mr. Berkeley
had asked for $25 million in damages in his claim.
   Mr. Berkeley spent six months looking for work after
leaving PaineWebber, according to Aegis Frumento, his lawyer
in New York. Mr. Berkeley now is a managing director and
mortgage-backed securities salesman at Daiwa Securities
America Inc. In a statement, Mr. Berkeley said, "It is too
easy to ruin a person's life with careless talk."