Rule of Law:
   Economic Rights: Guild Cuts Off Cornrows
   ----
   By L. Gordon Crovitz
CLINT BOLICK: The board is comprised by law exclusively of
cosmetologists who practice in this field.
   JUDGE SPORKIN: Some world we live in. Someone trying to
make a living and -- it's like Russia, isn't it?
   MR. BOLICK: It's like Russia used to be.
                                                                                                       

   This court hearing last month is part of the battle for
economic rights under the Constitution, which Mr. Uqdah hopes
will stop regulators from closing down his hair-braiding
salon. It says something about the times that Mr. Uqdah, a
black-nationalist capitalist, has as his lawyer Mr. Bolick, a
civil-rights lawyer whose mentor and younger son's godfather
is Justice Clarence Thomas.
   Federal District Court Judge Sporkin blocked a
cease-and-desist order against Mr. Uqdah pending more court
arguments today. At issue is a 1938 law passed by Congress to
create a "Board of Cosmetology" for Washington, D.C., to
license beauticians. Mr. Uqdah's Cornrows  Co. has been
under regulatory attack by the cosmetology board since his
salon started in 1980. Regulators fined Cornrows $1,000 and
ordered it to close unless Mr. Uqdah complies with
cosmetology regulations.
   "We're not talking about gene splicing or test-tube babies
or something complicated here," Mr. Uqdah explained in his
shop, part of his home in northwest Washington. "We're
talking about hair-braiding." Still, there's a possible
prison term. "If I'm supposed to go to jail for operating a
salon without a license," he said with a laugh acknowledging
the absurdity of the thought, "I'll deal with that." He could
also do for discriminatory regulations what Rosa Parks did
for segregated buses.
   Mr. Uqdah and his wife, Pamela Farrell, specialize in
cornrows and braids, which they call "an integral part of our
African culture." Customers pay $85 to $1,000. The firm sells
videos and stylebooks, has a toll-free phone number for
questions about children's hair, employs eight and grosses
about $500,000 a year. Ms. Farrell has trained some 250
braiders, several of whom are now competitors.
   The problem is that it takes $5,000 and nine months of
study to get a beautician's license, but the cosmetology
board's rules have little to do with Cornrow's business. The
beautician exam includes finger waves, which were popular in
the 1930s, and pin curls from the 1950s, but nothing about
braiding.
   Mr. Uqdah says his shop doesn't use chemicals or other
potentially dangerous materials or techniques. Yet lawyers
for the regulators say it is "beyond peradventure that these
regulations are for the public benefit in terms of public
health, welfare and safety."
   Make that somewhere this side of peradventure. The
tendency of people in trades to use licensing laws to block
competition goes back to the medieval guilds. Here, the five
members of the cosmetology board are all owners of other
salons. "There's a conflict of interest," Mr. Uqdah says.
"These salon owners on the board don't understand what we do
here, but they know we're a threat." He noted the irony of
occupational licensing laws, used against blacks during Jim
Crow, now being used by a primarily black board against a
salon specializing in African hair styles.
   There's good evidence that barring entry was the purpose
of Washington's cosmetology board. The Congressional Record
of 1938 quotes an owner of a small salon who opposed the
board as "sponsored by the owners of the remaining number of
exclusive and high-priced beauty shops" who "hope to limit or
control competition."
   A report by the District of Columbia bar association in
1985 said the city's "cosmetologists are grossly
overregulated," with rules that create "a significant barrier
to entry into the profession." The study noted that rules
require certain equipment for schools with fewer than 25
students ("four shampoo bowls, 10 stoves, six dryers, three
blowers"), while larger, more established schools have no
such requirements.
   All this may make the case against Mr. Uqdah seem absurd,
but the law makes these due-process or equal-protection cases
hard to win if "only" an economic right is at stake. In legal
jargon, judges now decree that economic rights are not
"fundamental" and that economic regulations need only have a
"rational relationship" to a legitimate goal. Still, there's
nothing legitimate about barring competition.
   Mr. Bolick, who works at the Institute for Justice in
Washington, already has one victory against anti-competitive
licensing laws. In 1989 he represented Ego Brown, who started
several upscale shoeshine stands in Washington only to be
told that a 1905 regulation in the city barred outdoor
stands. Federal Judge John Pratt said this violated the Equal
Protection Clause because other vendors weren't similarly
limited. "A court would be shrinking from its most basic duty
if it abstained from both an analysis of the legislation's
articulated objective and the method that the legislature
employed to achieve that objective," Judge Pratt wrote. Judge
Sporkin might find that the cosmetology board has more to do
with blocking competitors than with protecting consumers.
   Mr. Uqdah could get support from higher courts. Mr. Bolick
wrote a book in 1987 setting out a litigation strategy for
economic civil rights, "Changing Course." He got a letter of
praise from Justice Thomas, then chairman of the Equal
Employment Opportunity Commission where Mr. Bolick had
worked. Justice Thomas wrote that the book "makes the
philosophical connection between civil rights and the natural
law." He added,
   "Equally important, but more significant because of its
rarity, is the compelling relationship . . . between `civil
rights' and economic liberty."
   Justice Thomas also had some interesting comments during
his confirmation hearing about the suspect history of
occupational licenses. "Laws that did not allow my
grandfather to enjoy the fruits of his labor," Justice Thomas
said, were so powerful and so arbitrary that he "literally
had to get a drink before he went to the licensing bureau in
Savannah to get the license he needed to drive his oil
truck." Some things haven't changed.