Tracking Travel
   ----
   By Jonathan Dahl
BUSINESS travelers know a good deal when they see one,
even if it's at the expense of their company.
   Corporate consultants and travel managers say they've
noticed an alarming increase in employee violations of
company travel policies. According to JBH Travel Management,
about 25% of employees at the companies it audits upgrade
their hotel rooms and car rentals without any managers'
approval. And for the most part, they never get caught.
   Most companies hire travel agencies or set up their own
corporate travel departments to seek the best deals. But they
don't bother to compare expense accounts with initial
reservations to make sure policies are followed. "The manager
looks at the expense account and assumes the bigger car or
room was the only thing available," says Jan Heffington,
president of JBH, in Denver. "Unless you really go overboard,
nobody is going to notice."
   It's much harder to do this with air fares because many
companies use computers to flag any changes travelers make in
reservations. Even so, 15% to 20% of employees at some
companies refuse to accept a lower fare they're offered, says
A. Jenkins  Associates, a consulting firm in Mountain View,
Calif. They may cite a legitimate reason, but "wanting more
frequent-flier miles on a certain airline is often the real
reason," says A. Jenkins.
   Even a little cheating adds up, because U.S. businesses
spend over $100 billion a year on travel. Ms. Heffington
suspects many business travelers break their company policies
because they are angry at cutbacks in travel perks. "In a
way, it's backfiring on the companies," she says.
   Mr. Jenkins says some employees are also fed up with
travel agencies making last-minute changes in their flights
to save money -- changes that can throw trips out of whack.
"They've already set up their meetings, and this agent calls
with a new flight time," he says. "The traveler thinks, `So
what? Don't bother me, buster.'"
                                                                                                       

   Car-Rental Companies
   Shift to Bigger Mix
                                                                                                       

   SMALL CARS are still popular among auto buyers, but rental
companies are gambling that people feel differently when they
rent.
   Several big car-rental companies are changing their fleets
to offer more midsize and luxury cars and fewer compacts.
Dollar Rent A Car Systems says compact cars now make up only
about 20% of its fleet, down from 40% in 1990. Avis says the
percentage of big cars in its fleet has jumped six percentage
points in the past six months.
   Marketing considerations play a role. Rental companies
think vacationers don't like to cram their family into small
cars; they note that minivans tend to rent well. But much of
the change is being dictated by auto makers and the deals
they are offering rental companies, in which they often have
ownership ties.
   Fewer compact cars usually mean higher costs for
travelers, because the bigger models rent for 5% to 10% more.
But the fleet shifts should make some bait-and-switch tactics
less common. Companies have sometimes booked compact cars at
low rates, and then persuaded customers to pay for more
expensive cars at the counter. Now, there are simply fewer
small cars to reserve at the low rates.
                                                                                                       

   TWA Fares Poorly
   In Government Rankings
                                                                                                       

   IF THERE was one airline to avoid last year because of
consumer complaints and poor on-time performance, it was
Trans World Airlines.
   TWA had the worst rate of consumer complaints and
second-worst on-time record for the year, according to the
Transportation Department. A spokesman for the carrier, which
has filed for Chapter 11 protection from creditors, says it
has taken several steps to improve in both categories, and
notes that complaints fell 21% from 1990.
   Otherwise, there was little overlap between poor on-time
performances and consumer complaints. Delta Air Lines had the
second-best complaint rate, but third-worst on-time record.
                                                                                                       

   Odds and Ends
                                                                                                       

   MORE National Car Rental System locations offer the
company's "Smart Key" system, allowing customers to rent and
return cars with a machine similar to an automated teller.
But travelers who like to rent cars with low mileage can't
get that information from the machine. The company says that
it hasn't received any complaints and that on average its
cars have fewer than 10,000 miles. . . . Business air fares
are expected to rise 10% to 12% this year, American Express
Travel Related Services predicts. The travel agency cites two
years of big industry losses, higher operating costs and new
airplane deliveries. American Express also says corporate
meeting fares and business discount tickets will be harder to
obtain in 1992. Meanwhile, lodging, car rentals and meals are
expected to increase 2% to 5%.
   ---
   On-Time Performance
                                                                                                       

   Percentage of flights on time in 1991
                                                                                                       

   Northwest            86.3%
   America West         84.5
   Alaska               84.5
   USAir                84.4
   Southwest            84.3
   Pan Am*              83.5
   American             83.4
   Midway*              82.8
   Continental          81.4
   Delta                80.5
   TWA                  79.2
   United               78.3
                                                                                                       

   *Ceased flying
   Source: Dept. of Transportation