Taking the Pulse:
   Confidence Surveys
   May Help to Predict
   Shape of the Recovery
   ---
   But They Can't Give Timing;
   Polls Suggest Consumers
   Fear `Diminished' Future
   ---
   What Questions Are Asked
   ----
   By David Wessel
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
So, one would expect to find Mr. Druckrey pessimistic. But
he isn't. "We're guardedly optimistic there will be some
turnaround in the economy," he says.
   Production planners in businesses around the country are
facing the same paradox: Business seems to be turning up, but
some closely watched measures of consumer confidence aren't.
   Last week, the Conference Board, a business-research
organization based in New York, said its confidence index had
fallen to the lowest level since the bleak, oil-shock days of
December 1974. In short order, stock prices sank; Federal
Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan pronounced the report "very
disturbing"; USA Today and the Washington Post put the bad
news at the top of their front pages, and CBS made it the
lead story on its evening news.
   But two days later, last Thursday, the University of
Michigan's Survey Research Center quietly slipped its paying
clients its latest reading of the national mood: It rose a
bit in February, though remaining at a low level, and
respondents surveyed at month's end were more optimistic than
those surveyed at the beginning. Despite the center's efforts
to keep the report confidential, word quickly leaked to
financial news wires. Yet few in the financial markets or the
press seemed to care.
   The numbers generated by these and similar surveys have
been puzzling economists for years, largely because of the
pollsters' mixed record in predicting consumer spending and
the course of the economy. The surveys are in vogue now
largely because a drop in consumer confidence was among the
first signs that the U.S. was sliding into recession in
mid-1990. But consumer confidence also dropped markedly after
the 1987 stock-market crash, and the economy didn't take the
hint.
   Only a few doomsayers read the Conference Board's latest
number as a sign that the economy is heading south again. "It
provides good insight into what people are thinking," says
Mark Bundy, manager of forecasting and production planning at
Maytag Co., the Newton, Iowa, appliance maker. "But it's not
always giving insight into what people are doing." Maytag is
ramping up production because sales are strengthening and
other indicators are signaling an improving economy.
   Even so, Mr. Bundy doesn't shrug off the
consumer-confidence figures. "It's something that sits in
your stomach," he says. What puzzles him and others about the
numbers is that the most prominent surveys find consumers
gloomier than one would expect, given the current levels of
unemployment and inflation.
   That divergence points to what could be the real news in
the numbers. They don't predict how many washing machines
Americans will buy this year, or what month will bring an
economic recovery. But they may help predict something far
more important: the recovery's shape and feel. What they are
indicating, some close observers of the confidence surveys
believe, is that Americans fear the economy won't be able to
deliver the American dream of a rising standard of living.
   An "era of diminished aspirations" is discerned by Richard
Curtin, director of the University of Michigan's survey. In
the exuberant 1960s, he says, "All we needed was a small
sighting that things were going to get better, and people
changed their view." That's no longer so, he says.
   The helmsman of the U.S. economy, Fed Chairman Greenspan,
is drawing a similar conclusion. "There's always been a sense
of buoyancy in the attitudes of Americans, a buoyancy which I
find regrettably lacking at this particular point," he told
the Joint Economic Committee of Congress this week. For the
past several weeks, Mr. Greenspan has warned repeatedly:
"There is a deep-seated concern out there which I must say to
you I haven't seen in my lifetime. . . . People can get past
short-term hardships, but if they think that they are not
short-term . . . but something fundamental to their future,
then a deep-seated concern arises."
   The risk, of course, is that sagging consumer spirits
about the economy could become a self-fulfilling prophecy.
Consumer spending accounts for two-thirds of all economic
activity and thus is an essential ingredient in any healthy
recovery. "If consumer confidence stays at very low levels
for a long period of time and that depresses consumer
purchases" -- an important caveat because it may not work out
that way -- "that could retard the recovery," says Michael
Boskin, President Bush's chief economist.
   One troubling possibility is that some television news
reports about consumer confidence and gloomy stories about
the economy make consumers think things are even worse than
they are. A few years ago, Stephen Pruitt, an Indiana
University economist, gave a test group newspaper clippings
and transcripts of TV news shows on the same unemployment
report and then asked questions similar to those posed by the
University of Michigan survey. Those who got the TV version
were consistently more pessimistic, he found.
   "Network coverage in and of itself is capable of altering
people's expectations," Mr. Pruitt says. "People are being
browbeaten. Everybody thinks things are bad because that's
what they're being told."
   Last week's Conference Board report was a scary signal at
a moment when confused investors, businesses, politicians and
workers are all looking for the first robins of an economic
spring. Most forecasters predict steady though only slow
improvement in the economy over the next six months. But
sometimes they prove too optimistic -- as they were last
year.
   In contrast to the Conference Board's survey, "we're not
at a 17-year low," says Mr. Curtin of the Michigan survey.
"We're not even lower than we were last year."
   But that's not to say Mr. Curtin is upbeat as he looks at
what consumers are saying. "There's not much good one can say
about the current situation," he says. Based on his survey,
which is included in the Commerce Department's official,
though not always reliable, index of leading indicators --
the statistical gauges that tend to foreshadow turns in the
economy -- he predicts "very meager growth" in coming months.
"Meager may be an exaggeration," he adds, offering
"stagnation" as an alternative.
   The two surveys have split in the past, too, probably
because they ask different questions. The Conference Board
survey of 5,000 households, conducted by mail by National
Family Opinion Inc. of Toledo, Ohio, asks respondents to look
six months ahead and focuses on the availability of jobs. It
releases its results publicly once a month.
   The Michigan survey, which tends to be less volatile,
questions 500 households a month by telephone, asking them,
among other things, to look at family finances and overall
business conditions one year ahead. It releases results to
subscribers twice a month and makes them public with a
one-month lag. No one would pay for the service if the
figures were available to the public immediately, Mr. Curtin
says; without subscribers, the survey would perish.
   Both surveys ask all sorts of detailed questions -- such
as "How likely are you to buy a new car?" -- but the figures
watched most carefully are the indices that the two
organizations compute to summarize their findings.
   Donald Hilty, Chrysler Corp.'s corporate economist, finds
that the Conference Board measure is especially sensitive to
what's going on in the job market, while the Michigan measure
tends to track interest rates. To cope with this dissonance,
he simply averages the two readings. This overall measure of
confidence turns out to be a better predictor of auto sales
than the specific query about plans to buy a car, he says.
"It's one of the most important factors we look at," he says.
"Consumer attitudes will turn up a few months before auto
sales do."
   Other surveys give even more frequent readings -- and they
are also gloomy. A weekly telephone poll of 250 consumers,
commissioned by Money magazine and ABC News, has been sliding
since last spring and is nearly as low as at any time in its
six-year life. Albert Sindlinger, who surveys about 900
consumers a week by phone from Wallingford, Pa., issues
reports twice a week. He sees the U.S. economy undergoing a
transformation as painful as the Depression. "People who have
all this confidence in the future are lambs going to the
slaughterhouse," he says.
   For decades, economists have pointed to consumer, and
business, attitudes as an important factor in figuring out
how the economy works. Back in 1927, A.C. Pigou, an eminent
British economist, listed "changes that occur in men's
attitudes of mind" as one "initiating impulse" of industrial
fluctuations.
   Modern consumer-attitude surveys all trace back to the end
of World War II and a University of Michigan economist named
George Katona, who argued that "what people did depended not
only on their actual economic and asset situation but on what
they thought of them," says his successor, Mr. Curtin.
   The first survey was sponsored by the Federal Reserve
Board, which basically wanted to know how much money
Americans had saved during the war. "Katona convinced them
you just couldn't knock on someone's door and say, `How much
do you have in your savings account?'" Mr. Curtin says. "You
needed to build up a rapport, a sense of confidence and
trust. To do that, he devised a series of questions that
measure consumer confidence." Ironically, the Fed then told
Mr. Katona not to bother to report replies to the confidence
questions. But it soon changed its mind.
   Ever since, economists have been arguing about how useful
consumer-attitude surveys really are in predicting the
economy's course. The argument has intensified lately because
the 1990 plunge in confidence readings proved significant.
   Even though everyone is examining the same history, there
is no consensus. Within the legions of economists employed by
the Federal Reserve, for instance, almost every camp is
represented.
   In Washington, a trio of Fed economists concludes that
changes in consumer sentiment are significant only because
they presage crucial changes in household income. An
economist at the San Francisco Federal Reserve Bank says that
income isn't the only factor and that the surveys pick up
something else that influences decisions to buy big-ticket
items, namely, "perceptions of uncertainty and the likelihood
of financial distress." An Atlanta Fed economist argues that
consumer surveys don't reveal much more than one can learn
from checking stock prices and interest rates. And a fourth
study, at the Kansas City Fed, finds confidence measures
useful primarily "in exceptional circumstances where
confidence changes abruptly because of unanticipated
non-economic events," such as the Gulf War. Just what is an
"exceptional circumstance"? The author, C. Alan Garner,
admits: "Realistically, I don't come up with a good
definition."
   Although the economists who compile the surveys offer
charts and graphs that show how closely their readings track
the economy's ups and downs, some veteran forecasters have
found the link so weak that they were uncomfortable when the
Commerce Department added the Michigan survey to its index of
leading indicators. One problem is that the confidence
measures do tend to fall before recessions but often don't
climb until the recovery has begun.
   But whether consumer-confidence measures are or aren't
missing the turning point in the economy may not be the main
question right now. "I mean, it's one thing to come out of
the recession," Mr. Greenspan said on Capitol Hill this week.
"It's another thing to get growth restored to where there is
opportunity for new jobs."
   With Congress at odds with itself and President Bush on
whether and how to cut taxes, Mr. Greenspan issued a sober
warning: "We have to be extraordinarily sensitive to
developing an economy which is creating a longer-term outlook
which people can feel optimistic about."