Appeals Court Affirms the Guilty Plea
   And Life Sentence of Jonathan Pollard
   ----
   By Paul M. Barrett
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The panel unanimously said that prosecutors hadn't acted
unlawfully when they required Mr. Pollard to plead guilty as
a condition of their negotiating an agreement with his wife,
Anne Henderson Pollard, who was also charged in connection
with her husband's espionage.
   Judge Laurence Silberman wrote the majority opinion, in
which he acknowledged that "the government was engaged in
rather hard-nosed dealings" with Mr. Pollard. But stressing
that Mr. Pollard had waited nearly four years to file this
appeal and hadn't contested his guilt, Judge Silberman
concluded that prosecutors hadn't violated the Constitution
or any other law. Judge Ruth Ginsburg joined the majority
opinion.
   Judge Stephen Williams dissented. He asserted that while
the guilty plea itself was permissible, prosecutors had
committed "a fundamental miscarriage of justice" when they
broke their promise to emphasize Mr. Pollard's cooperation at
his sentencing and instead underscored the magnitude of the
damage he had caused to national security. Judge Williams
said he would have returned the case to the trial judge for
resentencing.
   Mr. Pollard pleaded guilty to one count of conspiracy to
deliver national defense information to a foreign government.
From June 1984 through November 1985, he copied and delivered
to Israeli agents large amounts of classified U.S.
intelligence material. Mr. Pollard, who later said he did it
for the good of both the U.S. and Israel, was paid between
$1,500 and $2,500 a month for the latter 12 months of his
espionage efforts.
   After he was arrested, Mr. Pollard sought a plea bargain
with prosecutors, who had refused to negotiate a deal for his
wife unless he admitted his guilt. Mrs. Pollard did plead
guilty and served three years in prison. Mr. Pollard has been
imprisoned since his sentencing.
   Mr. Pollard's lawyers said they were considering whether
to appeal Friday's decision, according to the Associated
Press.
   The appeals court rejected Mr. Pollard's argument that the
"wiring" of his plea bargain to his wife's violated the
constitutional protection of "due process" and against forced
self-incrimination. Only official threats of physical harm,
lies or improper inducements such as bribery would "render a
guilty plea legally involuntary," the court said. "Almost
anything lawfully within the power of a prosecutor acting in
good faith can be offered in exchange for a guilty plea," the
court added.
   As to the sentencing, the two-judge majority agreed that
"the government pressed its case against Pollard at
sentencing with considerable force," calling the harm he had
caused "substantial and irrevocable." But, the majority said,
prosecutors "never asked, in so many words, for a life
sentence," which they had promised not to do.