Haggling Over Taxes
   In the Capital Takes
   Its Toll on Economy
   ---
   Unsure About New Breaks,
   Consumers and Businesses
   Are Waiting on Sidelines
   ----
   By Rick Wartzman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The president and lawmakers have put together proposals
that they say will help stimulate the sluggish economy. But
for the moment, the election-year battle over which course to
take appears to be putting a slight drag on the economy.
   As the weeks march on, some households and businesses that
had been hoping to take advantage of various proposed tax
breaks are now sitting on their hands, waiting to see how
things shake out. Some are beginning to fear that, in the
end, no tax legislation at all will be enacted.
   Thus, even measures that have bipartisan support don't
show signs of spurring economic growth. Both the president
and House Democrats, for example, are seeking to eliminate a
"luxury" tax that has hurt yacht sales. But while the tax
itself "has had a devastating effect on this industry," the
pending repeal is "even worse," said Irwin Sperling,
executive vice president of Pacific Yacht Sales Inc. in
Marina del Rey, Calif. "Now, customers who might earlier have
been willing to pay the tax don't want to be the last person
in America to have to fork it over" if the levy is repealed.
   Similarly, some companies are delaying acquisition of new
equipment until they see what, if any, investment incentive
will be enacted. The president and House Democrats have
proposed an extra one-year, 15% depreciation allowance for
equipment bought since Feb. 1. But some companies fear that
date may not hold, while others continue to lobby for a
permanent investment tax credit.
   The result is that at Monarch Machine Tool Co. customers
are holding back on "orders that should have been placed by
now," grumbled Robert Siewert, president of the company in
Sidney, Ohio. "Everyone's confused. Nobody knows what's going
to happen." Raymond Ross, president of rival Cincinnati
Milacron Inc., also has sensed "procrastination taking place"
by his customers.
   Despite the downturn in the steel industry, Allegheny
Ludlum Corp. has aggressively pursued new capital projects
and is now in the last phase of a three-year, $120 million
investment program, most of it for a new finishing plant. But
additional spending may well "depend on the opportunities"
created by a tax bill, said a spokesman. Therefore, the
Pittsburgh company remains "vitally interested" in the debate
on Capitol Hill.
   Most households and businesses, of course, won't be swayed
one way or another by the tax bill. When it comes to buying a
house, for instance, real estate agents say people tend to be
more concerned with the level of interest rates and whether
they can make the down payment. Some businesses, such as
Eastman Kodak Co. and Westinghouse Electric Corp., say their
spending plans were set long ago and won't be influenced by
inside-the-Beltway antics.
   But the basic idea behind any economic-stimulus plan is to
entice consumers who are on the edge of buying. Any
legislative bottleneck undermines that effort.
   Perhaps no sector of the economy is feeling the effects of
the impasse as much as the housing industry. "Right after the
president's speech, people were saying the $5,000 credit
looked attractive," said Peter Rucci, a senior vice president
at Shannon  Luchs Co., a real estate concern in the
Washington, D.C., area. "But in the last couple of weeks,
things have tapered off," Mr. Rucci said, as mortgage rates
have climbed a bit and "all the indecision and wrangling" in
Congress have "created a lack of confidence."
   The situation has become one of such concern that Federal
Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan encouraged lawmakers this
week "to come to a fairly quick conclusion" on the tax
credit, because "whether one likes this credit or not, the
one thing nobody likes to have is uncertainty." Further
delays, Mr. Greenspan told the Senate Banking Committee,
would only "create problems for the market" and cause the
economy to "lose jobs and lose construction."
   Sen. Alfonse D'Amato (R., N.Y.), who doesn't often agree
with the Fed chairman, concurred in this instance. "What a
sorry spectacle," he said, "to be exacerbating" problems in
the economy "as a result of indecision."
   Treasury Secretary Nicholas Brady, in a speech to an
economists' group this week, went so far as to suggest that
the fight over the tax bill is partly responsible for driving
up long-term interest rates. "When people watch the debate
that's been going on here about how we're going to solve this
country's problems, they get depressed," Mr. Brady said.
   Several people in the business community said it would
help move things along if key lawmakers announced -- as they
have in past legislative sessions -- that no matter what tax
measures emerge, they'll absolutely be retroactive to
purchases since Feb. 1. But such assurances are "not about to
happen in this political atmosphere," said John Nolan, a
Washington tax lawyer and a former senior Treasury official.
   Indeed, a staff member of the tax-writing House Ways and
Means Committee said yesterday that while "no one has any
inclination to toy with" the Feb. 1 date at this stage,
lawmakers can't "in good conscience" set it in stone. That's
because if Congress finds it needs extra revenue to make a
bill fly, "you can always get a little money by moving up the
effective dates."
   ---
   Clare Ansberry and Frederick Rose contributed to this
article.