Heard on the Street:
   St. Joe Paper Stock Wins Analysts' Plaudits,
   But Real Estate Slump May Defer Rewards
   ----
   By John R. Dorfman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Ragen MacKenzie in Seattle and Dillon Read in New York
also weighed in with favorable reports, and a surge in
fourth-quarter profit was a pleasant surprise.
   People who jump in now expecting further quick gains will
probably wind up feeling foolish. "You can't go out and hit
the bid for 3% of Florida tomorrow morning," says David
Winters, who follows St. Joe for Mutual Shares and its sister
funds in Short Hills, N.J. "You're in the worst real estate
market since the Depression."
   But this is a stock that might well be worth buying and
putting away for a child or grandchild. "It's a
safety-deposit-box stock; it really is," says Mr. Winters.
   Judged by earnings, St. Joe stock looks expensive: The
price is 46 times the past four quarters' per-share profit.
Judged against the underlying asset value, however, St. Joe
stock still looks cheap.
   Scott Black, president of Delphi Management in Boston,
figures the assets are worth $65 a share. Mr. Kass pegs them
at $100 a share. Frank Curzio, a market-letter writer in
Queens, N.Y., thinks the true figure is even higher,
especially as some of St. Joe's land is in "oil prone" areas.
   The company declines to guess how many jelly beans are in
the bottle. "We have not made our own calculation," says
Stanley D. Fraser, chief financial officer. "Frankly, we
don't know how to value 1.1 million acres of land. I'm
interested whenever I hear these figures, and I wonder how
{people} got them."
   The trouble, as one money manager puts it, is that "you're
talking about theoretical valuation, because the company is
not going to be sold and it's not going to be liquidated."
The Alfred Du Pont Testamentary Trust owns 69% of the shares
outstanding. Each year the trust gives 3% of its assets to
three organizations in Delaware and Florida that provide
health care to children and the elderly.
   So, as they say on Wall Street, there seems to be no
"catalyst" to trigger the release of buried values.
   Mr. Kass thinks he smells a whiff of catalyst. "Based on
my conversations with executives and board members, there is
no question in my mind that an extraordinary event is being
considered," he says. "My best guess is that the paper
company and associated operations will be sold."
   Most people who own the stock don't expect any such thing.
"We'd be surprised if they did anything major, but we
wouldn't be surprised if they made minor moves," says Michael
Price, who runs Mutual Shares.
   The company's Mr. Fraser says St. Joe plans to proceed
with methodical development of its real estate, such as
putting up three-story suburban office buildings where the
market will support them. A big Miami project is on hold
because of high vacancy rates. Sell the paper company? Mr.
Fraser says he has "no knowledge" of any such plan.
   Though the stock long term will be influenced by asset
values, short term it moves with earnings. Earnings, in turn,
depend in large part on demand for corrugated paper boxes.
(St. Joe makes about 2% of the U.S. supply.) Even if box
demand picks up next year -- as most people think it will --
St. Joe stock is expensive, as judged by earnings.
   The company earned $1.35 a share in 1990, but only 90
cents a share in 1991. This year, analysts look for about
$1.10, and next year maybe $1.70. "On a pure earnings basis,
it's run ahead of itself," says Mr. Black of Delphi.
   He owns 120,000 St. Joe shares anyway, and says they are
worth holding because of the asset value and the company's
low long-term debt -- a mere $43 million, which is less than
the company's cash on hand.
   Sherman Chao of Salomon Brothers says the paper business
should see improved results this year. But the railroad has
lost a major General Motors contract (roughly 8% of revenue),
and he suspects Ford and Chrysler negotiated tough terms for
renewing their contracts. He rates the stock neutral for now.
   John Carey, manager of the Pioneer Fund in Boston, holds
403,900 shares of St. Joe and calls it "the quintessential
value stock." But he's not holding his breath for any quick
gains. "Sometimes," he says, "you grow old and die before
these values are realized."
   ---
   St. Joe Paper Co.
   (NYSE; Symbol: SJP)
                                                                                                       

   Business: Forest products, railroads, real estate
                                                                                                       

   Year ended Dec. 31, 1991:
   Revenue: $582.2 million
   Net income: $27.6 million; 90 cents a share
                                                                                                       

   Fourth quarter, Dec. 31, 1991:
   Per-share earnings: 46 cents vs. 32 cents
                                                                                                       

   Average daily trading volume: 12,935 shares
                                                                                                       

   Common shares outstanding: 30.5 million