REVIEW  OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   Public Citizen's Non-Disclosure
The group, however, is considerably more modest about its
sources of funding. Its Dr. Sidney Wolfe wrote us recently to
deny that trial lawyers accounted for more than about 1% of
the group's contributions. When questioned, however, he
refused to disclose the source of the information, adding
that it was an internal estimate. Public Citizen would hardly
be satisfied with this level of "disclosure" from, say, Dow
Corning.
   Dr. Wolfe suggested to our Gordon Crovitz that he write to
Joan Claybrook, who runs Public Citizen, requesting that the
information about who funds the group be made public. Mr.
Crovitz did write Ms. Claybrook to ask if she would be
willing to authorize disclosure, but as the correspondence
printed alongside indicates, she responded with a stern, No
(see: "On Public Citizen's Sources of Funding" -- WSJ March
17, 1992).
   It is certainly the right of Public Citizen and the other
Naderite groups to keep their funding secret, though
disclosing contributions of more than $500 or $1,000 might
balance privacy interests with the public interest in knowing
more about who's behind the Nader groups. Public Citizen's
posture of denial here is especially striking because Ralph
Nader himself has defended his close ties to the trial bar,
which includes numerous fundraisers.
   In November 1990, Mr. Crovitz was invited to speak to a
meeting of trial lawyers in Atlanta that began with a
$1,000-a-table fund-raiser for Mr. Nader. Some 300 trial
lawyers and guests attended. When Mr. Crovitz noted the
mutual reliance of Nader groups and contingency-fee lawyers
in generating publicity and fostering litigation, Mr. Nader
defended his funding from the lawyers. "It's a power struggle
so there's no reason to be apologetic about it," he said. Mr.
Nader also said his groups got more contributions from
insurance companies than from trial lawyers, which could hint
at one reason the groups want to keep their contributors
under wraps.
   Public Citizen is free to keep its private interests
secret, though we'll continue harboring suspicions about its
connections to the trial lawyers. Still, maybe the group
should more appropriately change its name to Private Citizen.