NEC Discusses
   An Agreement
   With Samsung
   ----
   By Jacob M. Schlesinger and Damon Darlin
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
Mr. Sasaki wouldn't provide any details about what sort of
agreement the two companies were discussing or how far the
talks had progressed. An NEC spokeswoman later downplayed the
talks as routine exchanges that NEC has with many rivals. But
one Samsung semiconductor official, who asked not to be
identified, said the discussions were taking place at a "high
level" and concern a new "technology cooperation."
   Analysts said an agreement would likely involve Samsung
supplying NEC with some lower-level memory chips, or joint
development of future memory chip generations.
   Any closer relationship between the Asian giants would
mark an interesting twist in international semiconductor
politics. The ambitious South Koreans have become an irritant
to the Japanese -- just as the Japanese became to the
Americans -- by driving down chip prices world-wide in order
to boost market share. The situation has become particularly
difficult for the Japanese, who are now constrained by
American-set price floors on chips while the Koreans aren't.
   "I hope Samsung will learn from the market," Mr. Sasaki
said. One Korean industry analyst, who asked not to be
identified, noted that the Koreans are "having trouble
selling in Japan, so they have to compete fiercely in the
U.S." If NEC absorbs some of Samsung's capacity, the analyst
said Samsung might become "more cooperative" on pricing.
   Meanwhile, the Japanese are hoping to pare their product
lines, weeding out some of the commodity products and
devoting more resources to higher value-added chips. Under
that scenario, NEC could fill its lower-end product line with
Samsung chips. Hitachi Ltd. already has such an arrangement
with Goldstar Co.
   With the cost of chip development skyrocketing, chip
makers around the world are also looking for partners to
share costs. And many analysts say that Samsung's technology
in many areas is equal to the Japanese. "To some extent,
Samsung has technology strengths," Mr. Sasaki said.
   Last year, Samsung announced its development of 16-megabit
DRAMS at the same time as Japanese chip makers. It was the
first time a Korean electronics company had developed a
product at the same time as a Japanese company. Samsung is
working on 64-megabit DRAMs.