RTC Securitizes
   Commercial
   Property Loans
   ----
   By Paulette Thomas
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The deal -- the first of its kind for the agency -- not
only will rid the government of more assets from failed
savings and loan associations, but also could blaze the trail
for an expanded secondary market for commercial real estate
loans. That, in turn, could help ease the credit crunch. "We
think this will be a growing phenomenon in the 1990s," says
Michael Giliberto, a real estate analyst for Salomon Brothers
Inc.
   More than $1 trillion in home mortgages has been
transformed into securities through agencies such as the
Federal National Mortgage Association, or Fannie Mae. But
there is no similar agency for commercial loans. Commercial
loans, far more varied in size and terms than home mortgages,
are tougher to peddle as uniform securities. Analysts guess
that less than $10 billion in commercial loans have been
"securitized" in private deals.
   A secondary market for commercial real estate loans
"hasn't developed because there were technical problems, and
it wasn't worth anyone's time to work on them," says John
Tuccillo, chief economist for the National Association of
Realtors.
   The severity of the credit crunch has changed that, and
the realtors and developers have proclaimed establishing a
secondary market for commercial real estate loans their
highest priority. They are urging Congress to create an
agency that would act in much the same way Fannie Mae does. A
Senate Republican task force on real estate -- chaired by
Sen. Pete Domenici (R., N.M.), a member of the banking
committee -- has proposed a series of legislative and
regulatory changes to establish a strong commercial real
estate secondary market.
   "Unlike all our other deals," says Kenneth Bacon, who
manages the program for the RTC, "this deal has been closely
watched by lobbying and trade groups concerned about real
estate."
   The bailout agency, which will sell off more than $400
billion in assets from failed SLs, has become something of a
laboratory for new ways to package financial instruments.
Besides packaging and selling $11 billion of home mortgages
it obtained from failed SLs, it has sold $2 billion in
securities backed by apartment loans, for which there is a
much smaller market.
   With the commercial securities, it's venturing into an
area where investor interest is even less certain. The terms
of the deal are one measure of how difficult it is to attract
investors to commercial real estate. Payments on the loans
being packaged are all up to date, but the $528 million
offering had to be sweetened by a $150 million reserve fund,
equal to about 30% of the offering, in order to be rated
triple-A and double-A by the rating agencies.
   If a particular loan defaults, investors will be
protected, at least partially, by the reserve fund,
administered by a private trust. Moreover, the securities are
being offered in three classes, each with specified degrees
of risk.
   "All that suggests that pricing is still under tremendous
pressure," says Mr. Giliberti of Salomon.
   If the sale is successful, Mr. Bacon predicts, the agency
this year could sell an additional $2 billion to $4 billion
in securities backed by commercial loans. It holds $18.7
billion in commercial loans that are current now.
   The agency likes such deals, because they enable it to
liquidate assets quickly, and because they limit the
government's risk. At the most, the government could lose
only the amount it puts in the reserve fund. Over time, if
the reserve fund isn't needed, the RTC plans to liquidate it.