Bush Wins Applause but No Ovation
   ----
   A Wall Street Journal News Roundup
In politics, as in show business, it's called mixed
reviews.
   The quotes -- assuredly not indicative of a hit -- are
various assessments in the business community of President
Bush's State of the Union address. They were culled from
scores of interviews conducted yesterday by Wall Street
Journal reporters around the country.
   The interviewees -- top executives, for the most part --
would normally be expected to greet the words of a Republican
president with unbridled enthusiasm. Small business, too,
gave the president qualified approval. But these aren't
normal times for American business, and while the president's
message was warmly supported by some, his proposals were far
from the building blocks of a uniformly positive consensus.
   Here is a sampling of some of the business community's
opinion of the president's speech:
                                                                                                       

   JOSEPH JACOBS
   Chief Executive, Jacobs Engineering Group Inc.
                                                                                                       

   "An appeal for all of us to work together to help the
economy is a wellfounded one, and as an unabashed patriot I
loved the tone of the speech," says Mr. Jacobs, whose company
is an engineering, design, environmental and hazardous-waste
management and construction firm in Pasadena, Calif.
   "As to the specific suggestions, I obviously support them.
I liked his idea of setting a deadline. The economy needs
positive action, and we can't debate it endlessly and just
flounder around.
   "Confidence is extremely important. In some ways, I
believe we almost talked ourselves into this recession."
                                                                                                       

   ROBERT W. LINDAL
   President, Lindal Cedar Homes Inc.
                                                                                                       

   Mr. Bush's speech provided "a very good approach," says
Mr. Lindal, stimulating the economy enough, without
overheating it and driving interest rates back up.
   "The withholding change he's going to make himself will
free some cash flowputs a lot more cash in the people's
pockets right away."
   For Lindal Cedar, which makes custom homes, the best news
was the first-time home-buyer credit. Most of the
Seattlebased company's customers aren't first-time buyers,
but the tax breaks will create "movement in the marketplace,"
he says.
   "You'd always like more, but it does no good to overheat
the market and drive up interest rates."
                                                                                                       

   WILLIAM B. DERRICKSON
   Chief Executive, Quadrex Corp.
                                                                                                       

   "There are a lot of one-time, short-term things in there,"
says Mr. Derrickson. "Some of the root causes of why we got
to where we are aren't addressed -- like why people buy
Japanese cars instead of American. If you don't address the
root cause, nothing will be solved."
   The tax cuts represent a gamble, Mr. Derrickson says.
"What if it doesn't spur business on? Then we could have an
even bigger deficit problem than we have now."
   One area that needs major change, he says, is incentives
for research and development. "Research and development needs
to be put back into this country in a big way," Mr.
Derrickson says, arguing that the president's proposals don't
adequately address the problem. He says his own business has
been hurt because research and development costs have to be
accounted for in one year instead of capitalized over several
years. "They need to change the rules." Quadrex is an
environmental-engineering services company in Gainesville,
Fla.
                                                                                                       

   GLENN SCHAEFFER
   President, Circus Circus Enterprises Inc.
                                                                                                       

   "I thought the package was a little less than he would
come up with," Mr. Schaeffer says. "I think the conservatives
still want him to do nothing, saying the economy is already
beginning to perk up, so make gestures but don't do
anything."
   Circus, which plans to build a $290 million pyramid-shaped
hotel-casino in Las Vegas, Nev., by fall 1993, wouldn't
benefit from the investment tax allowance as it's currently
planned. "The 15% credit in 1992 applies if you're in service
by June 1993. We're in a state that has three of the largest
construction projects in the U.S. -- three of the largest
job-generating projects -- and they'll open after the current
in-service date."
   Pushing that date back would benefit not only Circus, he
notes, but also Mirage Resorts Inc.'s planned Treasure Island
casino and MGM Grand Inc.'s $1 billion hotel-casino and theme
park scheduled to open by early 1994.
                                                                                                       

   LESLIE G. McCRAW
   Chief Executive, Fluor Corp.
   "My reaction to the speech was pretty positive, more
positive than I expected," says Mr. McCraw. "I like the way
he looked, fresh and alert. I liked the structure of the
message in that it showed a recognition that in solving
problems, there are short-term elements and long-term
elements. It would have been a mistake to have knee-jerk
reactions."
   Fluor, an engineering, construction, maintenance and
technical services company, just had its best year ever. "In
terms of specifics, the obvious one in terms of our business
was the reduction in the capital-gains tax. It will probably
spur some spending on projects that wouldn't have gone
forward otherwise, which will create jobs for our clients and
for us.
   "Longer term, the RD credit was excellent. It should
increase U.S. competitiveness and will affect a broad array
of different industries, including some in this region like
biotechnology, pharmaceuticals and oil.
   "The notion of a moratorium on regulations -- everyone
should be for that. If there's a reduction of federal
regulations that by themselves discourage expansion, maybe
some states will take a cue from that and ease or reduce
state regulation."
                                                                                                       

   MARK GOODE
   Chief Executive, LaunchTech Inc.
                                                                                                       

   The proposal to extend the research and development tax
credit permanently "could go two ways," says Mr. Goode. "This
could be more posturing by President Bush. {Until now} the
administration has avoided anything that smacks of industrial
policy. This could be a trial balloon for a meaningful
redistribution of dollars, particularly for technology."
   With part of his Richardson, Texas, consulting business
directed at finding capital for emerging companies, Mr. Goode
is a strong supporter of the capital-gains tax cut, though he
concedes that "a very small percentage of Americans will
benefit" from it. Nevertheless, he says, "the stimulation
will create new jobs and new opportunities."
                                                                                                       

   ROBERT I. TOLL
   Chief Executive, Toll Brothers Inc.
   President Bush was "selling us short" by not presenting an
economic vision, says Mr. Toll. "What we saw to a large
extent was a rehash of proposals he's made in the past, which
are very political."
   But as a home builder, Mr. Toll says he kept jumping up
and saying "Yes, yes, yes]" as the president outlined the tax
credit for first-time home buyers. The proposal, he says,
wouldn't directly affect his Huntingdon Valley, Pa., company,
which concentrates on luxury housing that is out of reach for
most first-time home buyers. "The impact will be on what's
known as the daisy chain," he says. "If people are buying
move-up housing, they'll have to sell their home first."
   He cautions, however, that the tax-credit proposal, which
must be passed by Congress, could have a negative impact in
the short run. "There's nothing worse than telling somebody
they can buy it for less next week. Now everybody's going to
say, `Let's wait.'"
                                                                                                       

   DICK HAGENAUER
   Marketing Analyst, Whirlpool Corp.
                                                                                                       

   "My overall feeling is, {the package} was too political
and too complicated," says Mr. Hagenauer, who oversees
economic and product forecasting for Whirlpool. By "raising
too many issues" in trying to boost the economy, the
president risks confusing consumers, Mr. Hagenauer says.
   Whirlpool, which sells Whirlpool, KitchenAid and Roper
appliances in the U.S., stands to be one of the prime
beneficiaries of the credit for first-time home buyers. But
Mr. Hagenauer says that for many consumers, "uncertainty and
jobs" are still the biggest concerns. Whirlpool worries that
an overly ambitious program could backfire on home builders:
A package that overstimulates the economy could boost
inflation, raise interest rates and "nip any builder business
in the bud."
   To help avoid that, Mr. Hagenauer says, middle-income tax
breaks should be temporary.
                                                                                                       

   KIRK RAAB
   President, Genentech Inc.
                                                                                                       

   President's Bush proposals include four initiatives
essential to the young, RD-intensive biotechnology industry,
Mr. Raab says.
   "First, the research initiative. {Mr. Bush} addressed it
broadly, but I'm confident it will be directed to
biotechnology. The human genome project is typical of the
kind of research that needs government support.
   "Second, was the reference to regulatory agencies and the
benefits of making them more efficient.
   "Third was the RD tax credit, which is vitally important
to us." And finally, the capital-gains tax cut.
   Biotechnology "is an industry that constantly needs
infusions of capital," Mr. Raab says, "and the best source is
the equity market. There's no doubt that this will {help
make} more funds to be available."
                                                                                                       

   JACK SHEINKMAN
   President, Amalgamated Clothing and Textile Workers Union
                                                                                                       

   Mr. Sheinkman says he is "disappointed" with President
Bush's plan, calling it "the same warmed-over agenda. It is
too concerned with capital gains and doesn't address the
issue of an industrial policy."
   Mr. Sheinkman, whose union has shrunk from 350,000 members
10 years ago to 250,000 workers today, says providing
incentives to developers and major businesses won't achieve
the president's purposes if people aren't working.
   "The repeal of the luxury tax isn't going to stimulate the
economy. We need a stronger trade policy. Our government is
spending millions of dollars to lure manufacturers to the
Caribbean basin, exporting jobs. But they won't help American
manufacturers who are in Paris this week trying to export
men's clothes made here."
   Mr. Sheinkman also suggested that the president should
further cut defense spending, singling out the Star Wars
system. "He also needs to deal with the health issue in a
meaningful way."
                                                                                                       

   JEREMY SIEGEL
   Professor of Finance, Wharton School, University of
Pennsylvania
                                                                                                       

   Prof. Siegel says he was "disappointed" in Mr. Bush's
address, particularly "his confrontational position with
Congress: `You better pass my package or else.' A more
cooperative tone would have worked better."
   The ideas for changing the tax code could yield benefits
in the longer term, he says, but they're no quick fix for a
sagging economy. "How can a capital-gains cut get us out of
recession? Setting this up as the linchpin of his tax policy
is disingenuous."
   Moreover, "the home-buyer credit isn't necessary. The
lowering of interest rates is far more important in reviving"
the housing market. A policy for investment in education, in
plant and technology" is needed much more.
   Mr. Siegel also questions undoing some of the tax
revisions of the 1980s, the point of which "was to eliminate
loopholes, to treat all income equally. Now this would move
back to various exceptions." Inevitably, he says, the net
effect of the changes will be higher tax rates.
                                                                                                       

   WILLIAM W. GEORGE
   Chief Executive, Medtronic Inc.
                                                                                                       

   "My view is that the president's plan is a step in the
right direction but doesn't go far enough in various ways,"
says Mr. George, whose company makes pacemakers and other
medical devices.
   About the proposed moratorium on new federal regulations,
Mr. George says, "Ninety days is not a long time, and we have
a whole lot of concerns in that regard. The current research
environment is very restrained, and we end up doing a lot of
research overseas as a result. Doing research overseas is
becoming increasingly common in the health-care field; it
started in pharmaceuticals and now has reached the
medical-device industry.
   "We've also been concerned about access to health care for
the millions of uninsured Americans. A tax break is a step in
the right direction there, too, but I don't think it deals
sufficiently with the long-term issues like access to health
care for the uninsured, and the need to hold down costs.
We'll have to see more."
                                                                                                       

   ROBERT BLONQUIST
   Chief Credit Officer, Integra Financial Corp.
                                                                                                       

   "I thought it was a hard-hitting partisan speech, more so
than in the past, because we're in an election year," says
Mr. Blonquist in Pittsburgh.
   "It was more specific than I thought it would be, in terms
of reduction in nuclear arms and tax proposals, some elements
of which I'm not sure anyone in the audience understood.
   "I was upset at the president for leaning on regulators
because they're doing a good job. We need reasonable
independent regulatory review" so banks don't repeat the
mistakes of the past.
                                                                                                       

   JOHN KINSEY BAKER III
   Owner, The Book Haven
                                                                                                       

   Mr. Baker, whose shop is a small out-of-print and rare
book business in Lancaster, Pa., expressed dismay with
President Bush's proposals. "There's nothing in his plan
which will help me personally or my business. He's offering
some help to firsttime home buyers, and he's going to trim
the capital-gains tax, but I don't expect those moves to
translate into more sales at my store. A lot of people are
unemployed here."
   Repealing the luxury tax might help local boat builders,
some of whom have complained bitterly that the luxury tax has
crippled their businesses, Mr. Baker says. But he adds that
Mr. Bush appeared to offer relatively little to the middle
class. "At the very least, I'd have liked to have seen the
president allow us to fully deduct our IRA deposits,
regardless of income," Mr. Baker says. "Many people aren't
going to have real savings when they retire."
                                                                                                       

   CHARLES CASAMENTO
   Chief Executive, Interneuron Pharmaceuticals Inc.
                                                                                                       

   Mr. Casamento says he is "reasonably pleased" by President
Bush's proposals. "It may be enough if it all gets done.
That's the critical issue."
   Given that it's an election year for Congress as well as
the president, "I would think eventually people will get very
pragmatic. It may just happen."
   Mr. Casamento says the tax proposals related to equipment
purchases and to research and development spending are
especially welcome for small but fast-growing companies such
as his, a biotechnology concern in Lexington, Mass. He adds
that he also is pleased with the breaks for home buyers,
"because once housing gets going, the whole economy should do
better."