International:
   Sweden Rejects
   Merger of Volvo
   With Procordia
   ---
   Stockholm's Move Is Likely
   To Lead to Negotiations
   On Reshaping the Deal
   ----
   By Stephen D. Moore
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
But Mr. Bildt added that the government is prepared to
begin fresh talks with Volvo about the future of Procordia --
a food and pharmaceuticals company in which Volvo and the
government share power, each with voting stakes of 42.7%. It
was the government's imminent plan to sell its Procordia
holding under a privatization program that sparked the sudden
announcement over the weekend of the Volvo-Procordia merger
plan.
   Mr. Bildt acknowledged that it isn't clear whether
Procordia will proceed with its bid. He didn't rule out the
possibility of a modified merger proposal ultimately winning
government acceptance. He insisted that "all options are
open," and also suggested the possibility that both Volvo and
the state might end up selling their Procordia holdings.
   The driving force behind the proposed merger, Mr. Bildt
suggested, appeared to be Volvo's wish to improve its
strained financial position by gaining control of Procordia's
buoyant cash and profit flows. "But Volvo remains a very
solid company," he said, "and has considerable assets, such
as its large Procordia stake, which it could sell to raise
cash."
   Volvo declined to comment directly on the government
action. Pehr Gyllenhammar, chairman of Volvo and Procordia,
said both companies remain confident that the proposed merger
will proceed -- though perhaps after a negotiated settlement
in which certain conditions of the offer might be revised.
Mr. Gyllenhammar's comments were made in Washington, D.C.,
after the privatization panel's negative recommendation. He
wasn't available for further comment, a Volvo spokesman said.
   On the Stockholm stock exchange, Volvo's B-free stock, the
class of equity most traded internationally, skidded eight
kronor, or 2%, to 390 kronor ($66.67), or below the price
that prevailed before the merger proposal and 55.5 kronor
below the theoretical level of Procordia's offer.
   Procordia's B-free shares closed unchanged at 198 kronor,
after plummeting 6.6% in turbulent trading Monday.