Gillett Holdings' Restructuring Plan
   Has Old Friends Icahn, Black Fighting
   ----
   By George Anders
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Throughout the 1980s, Messrs. Icahn and Black worked
together quite closely. Mr. Black, as head of mergers and
acquisitions at Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc., helped Mr. Icahn
finance a variety of takeover bids, most notably the purchase
of Trans World Airlines. At one stage in 1990, after Mr.
Black left Drexel, he has said he briefly considered seeking
Mr. Icahn's help in setting up a new business.
   Last week, however, Mr. Icahn fired off a series of
objections to a proposed "rescue" of financially troubled
Gillett by Apollo Investments, a firm controlled by Mr.
Black.
   As reported, Apollo is proposing to inject $40 million
into Gillett, in exchange for as much as a 66% stake in the
company. Gillett's creditors, who are owed $1 billion, would
reduce their claims on the television station and ski resort
company to $600 million or less.
   Neither Mr. Icahn nor Mr. Black will comment on their
spat. But people familiar with the negotiations say Mr.
Icahn, who owns $65 million face value of Gillett's 13 7/8%
junk bonds, accused Mr. Black of designing a rescue plan that
was too favorable to Gillett's chief executive, George
Gillett, at the expense of the company's bondholders.
   Mr. Icahn at one point blasted plans to pay Mr. Gillett
$1.5 million a year, according to people familiar with the
talks. "I don't believe in these kinds of crazy things," Mr.
Icahn reportedly said. "My top four guys at TWA get $250,000
each."
   When Mr. Black attempted to defend the pay arrangements
for Mr. Gillett, Mr. Icahn reportedly shot back: "I don't
mind the guy, but Leon, did he marry your daughter, or what?"
   In the proposed restructuring, bondholders are being
offered 17% to 35% of Gillett Holdings' stock. Mr. Icahn
objected to a provision that would let Mr. Gillett
subsequently buy that stock from bondholders at a 35% premium
to its current value. If Gillett stock eventually proves to
be valuable, Mr. Icahn argued, bondholders should be allowed
to keep it.
   The latest breakdown in talks comes just a few weeks after
agreement on a restructuring of Gillett's debts had seemed
near. Gillett defaulted on some of its junk-bond debt in
August 1990, and has been seeking to restructure ever since.
People in contact with Messrs. Icahn and Black said it was an
open question whether talks would resume, or whether Gillett
might file for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection from
creditors without an agreed-upon plan of reorganization.
   Last week, Mr. Icahn also suffered a setback on one of his
largest investments, TWA, which filed for Chapter 11. "I
don't know if Carl had some other agenda last week," one
Gillett bondholder said.