Nova of Alberta
   Plans Equity Issue
   Of $207.6 Million
   ----
   By Suzanne McGee
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The issue is the company's second in less than a year.
Last July, Nova raised C$205 million through a 25 million
share issue, with proceeds again being used to reduce debt at
the petrochemicals operations. That issue, together with
proceeds from asset sales, helped trim Nova's nonutility debt
to about C$549 million at Sept. 30 from C$947 million at the
end of 1990.
   Analysts hailed the equity issue as the next step on the
way to a permanent solution to the problems that have dogged
the company since its C$1.32 billion acquisition of Polysar
Energy  Chemical Corp. in 1988. While Nova has successfully
cut debt associated with the acquisition, prices for most of
its key chemicals products have dropped steadily, squeezing
profit margins and resulting in losses.
   Last year, the newly appointed president of Nova, Edward
Newall, called off a plan to spin off the chemicals assets
into a publicly traded concern and announced C$675 million in
charges and write-offs related to the operations. Those
charges and write-offs represent most of the 1991 full-year
charges.
   "This issue will firm up their balance sheet a good deal,"
said Eleanor Barker, a Sanwa McCarthy analyst in Toronto. "It
also strengthens their hand in negotiating the sale of any
chemicals assets."
   While Nova's core gas pipeline business is operating
smoothly and profitably, the company is undertaking a
complete review of the chemicals business, which some
analysts, including Ms. Barker, believe will lead to the sale
of assets in the U.S. and eastern Canada. Mr. Newall said
previously that he expects the review to be completed by June
30.
   In trading on the Toronto Stock Exchange, shares of Nova
rebounded quickly following news of the issue. The stock
closed at C$7.50, down 50 Canadian cents, but up from a
morning low of C$7.25. Sanwa McCarthy's Ms. Barker said the
issue was attractively priced at less than the company's
estimated asset value of C$7.50. The stock has traded
steadily within the C$7 to C$8 range for several months.
   RBC Dominion Securities Inc., a Toronto investment dealer,
is lead underwriter of the equity issue. Nova said it expects
the issue to be completed Feb. 3.
   Nova, based in Calgary, Alberta, owns and operates the
province's gas pipeline system. It manufactures commodity
chemicals such as polystyrene, polypropylene and methanol at
facilities in the U.S. and eastern and western Canada.