Try Some of These
   Excuses Next Time
   You Bounce a Check
   ---
   Congressional Rubber Souls
   Offer Some Doozies;
   A Shrine to Virgin Mary
   ----
   By Jeffrey H. Birnbaum
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Consider Rep. Mary Rose Oakar, a Democrat of Ohio. She
says she always thought she had to put her money in the House
Bank. "When I came to Congress, they didn't tell us there was
another way to get your check," she says. The way the House
Bank worked, members were allowed to draw on their future
checks, which were then deposited into the bank. But for all
her 15 years in Congress, Rep. Oakar says she never realized
that she could deposit a U.S. House of Representatives
paycheck in any bank she chose.
   Rep. Oakar sits on the House Administration Committee,
which oversaw the House Bank. Unfortunately for someone in
that kind of job, her math is weak, too. For months now she
has said she had only six overdrafts; an unofficial list
places the number at 217.
   The House members' explanations wouldn't likely float at
your bank around the corner. Imagine walking into your bank
and explaining that your bounced check helped pay for a
grotto in your back yard dedicated to the Virgin Mary. That's
what California Republican Rep. Robert Dornan says is behind
what he asserts is his only bad check, which he first
disclosed last October.
   Rep. Dornan says through a spokesman that he actually paid
twice for the stone setting. He says he sent a check that the
contractor said was lost in the mail. He says he then sent a
replacement check, assuming that the workman would discard
the first one if it ever arrived. Rep. Dornan says his
account would have covered one check, but both checks were
cashed. The amount of the overdraft was less than $1,000, the
spokesman adds.
   Democratic Rep. Lawrence Smith of Florida points at least
indirectly at his wife, Sheila, who he says kept her "own
little checkbook" as a separate money-dispenser from the main
checkbook that was under his control. "Maybe hers and mine
might have passed one another," Mr. Smith says, but then he
adds gallantly, "I take full responsibility."
   Others blame the bank itself. "I feel that I was
victimized," says Rep. F. James Sensenbrenner Jr., Republican
of Wisconsin, about his 13 overdrafts totaling about $50,000.
"I was never notified of any problem with my account. Had I
ever received any indication, that would have been the last
time it would have happened."
   Democratic Rep. Charles Hatcher of Georgia cites his heart
attack and divorce as reasons for his 819 overdrafts. And GOP
Rep. Duncan Hunter of California asserts there was some
"moral balance" to his overdrafting, which involved 407
checks, because some of the money went to charity.
   Rep. Tim Penny, Democrat of Minnesota, says it was the
fault of his office manager, who had charge of his account.
Even this "meticulous, careful individual" didn't know about
three overdrawn checks totaling $99, he says. But, in any
case, the congressman says, at least his bad checks were for
good causes: One was to a Christian youth group and another
to a corngrowers association. "It helps me explain that I'm
not an abuser," he says.
   Denial is another favorite response. The biggest check
offender, Arkansas Democrat-turned-Republican Tommy Robinson,
a former House member, is alleged to have authored 996
overdrafts, but won't admit to a single one. And Democratic
Rep. Robert Mrazek of New York, who is currently running for
the Senate, is on the list for 972 overdrafts but says, "I
have never bounced a check" -- since none was ever returned.
   Rep. Hatcher of Georgia has a variation on that theme. He
is asserting that the 819 figure is too high -- it's probably
only 400 or 500, he said over the weekend. (A spokesman says
the congressman wasn't trying to minimize the number,
however.)
   Another Democrat, Edolphus Towns of New York, attributes
at least some -- but probably not all -- of what is listed as
403 overdrafts to an embezzlement by a former employee of
more than $28,000. A spokesman says the employee had a drug
problem that led to "a desperate need for capital," and wrote
a series of checks on the congressman's account to satisfy
it.
   Georgia Rep. Newt Gingrich, the House Republican whip and
the most outspoken critic of the House Democratic
leadership's handling of the bank mess, is himself having to
do a little explaining. Last year he admitted having three
bad checks. On Sunday he said he actually had about 20 of
them. (He explained the discrepancy by saying he had examined
records for a longer period of time.) Now a spokesman says
the number is between 20 and 30.
   Hey, it isn't that big a deal, Rep. Gingrich says. "I
don't think if you take a drink it's comparable to killing
somebody or driving under the influence," he told the
Associated Press.
   For some lawmakers, the best excuse is no excuse.
Democratic Rep. Jim Cooper of Tennessee says he stayed up all
night to examine his records so he couldn't be accused of
doing the work on taxpayer's time. He found six overdrafts,
and in addition to his profuse and repeated public apologies,
he is paying the Treasury $75 for each of them. "That's the
highest penalty I had heard of for a commercial bank," he
explains.
   The House members who weren't touched by the scandal, of
course, look best by comparison with their tainted
colleagues. Manuel Lujan is a former representative from New
Mexico who's now Interior Secretary. Asked if Mr. Lujan had
overdrawn his account while in the House, a spokesman said no
-- but then helpfully suggested directing the same question
at three other former House members in the Cabinet:
Agriculture Secretary Edward Madigan, Labor Secretary Lynn
Martin and Defense Secretary Dick Cheney.
   Yesterday, all three confessed to overdrafts.