Salomon Sees Executive Exodus
   Continuing Until U.S. Probe Ends
   ----
   By Michael Siconolfi
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
"We will continue to suffer damage with clients and
defections until the investigation is over," Mr. Maughan
said. "I hate to say this, but we will underperform the
{securities} industry" until then. "It's a fact of life."
   Salomon executives say the string of recent departures and
curbs on excessive risk-taking have eroded the firm's macho
trading culture. But Mr. Maughan said: "Just because we don't
growl and bite, doesn't mean we are still not a very
competitive firm."
   The Salomon Inc. unit, as reported, had pretax profit of
just $27 million in the fourth quarter, even as the rest of
the securities business reported blockbuster earnings. The
federal government's investigation of Salomon's bidding
violations in the Treasury securities market isn't expected
to be completed for a couple of months, people familiar with
the investigation say.
   In recent months, dozens of high-level Salomon executives
have left the firm as Interim Chairman Warren Buffett has
made drastic changes in the way the firm is run. He has
slashed bonuses, cut the influence of Salomon's once-powerful
stock traders and made sweeping cuts in Salomon's investment
banking operations.
   But the moves have set off an exodus of talented
executives that has Wall Street buzzing. The departures are
likely to continue, since Salomon has finally paid out $130
million from a deferred pay pool to more than 100 managing
directors, a senior post. Some analysts think Salomon's stock
and investment-banking franchises may have been badly
damaged.
   Among the executives who have left are many senior
managers with long-term client relationships. They include
Jay Higgins, Salomon's former investment banking chief; C.
Daniel Tyree, head of junk bonds; Michael Holland, head of
asset management; Ralph Fletcher, head of private placements;
George Balduzzi, stock block-trading chief; banking analyst
Thomas Hanley, Salomon's most prestigious stock analyst; and
Nicholas Bedford and Chris Mitchinson, heads of stock sales
and research, respectively, for Salomon's London operations.
   Just yesterday, Gordon Burns, a Salomon managing director,
told colleagues he is leaving to head up the
investment-banking operations at UBS Securities Inc. Earlier
this week, managing director Edward Olsen left to become head
of S.G. Warburg  Co.'s U.S. stock operations. As reported,
Mr. Tyree, Salomon's former junk-bond chief, was named vice
chairman of Shearson Lehman Brothers Inc.'s international
operations.
   Since the Treasury scandal erupted last August, 434
Salomon employees have resigned voluntarily, in addition to
more than 150 who have been laid off. During that period,
Salomon has hired 473 new employees. The firm employs about
6,000 world-wide.
   Mr. Maughan concedes the firm lost some key executives it
wanted to keep. But he says it could have been worse. "It's
really not so far out of line, relative to my first fears --
I don't know what people expected," Mr. Maughan said, adding
that some employees were forced out and other departures
stemmed from the firm's sweeping cost-cutting drive.
   Salomon's stock and underwriting operations -- two of Wall
Street's hottest businesses in recent months -- have been the
most severely hobbled by the fallout from the Treasury
scandal and the employee defections.
   Although Salomon has several deals in the works, its stock
underwriting business has ground nearly to a standstill.
Salomon's market share in lead-managing stock underwritings
for corporate clients has plunged to 33rd place so far this
year, with a mere 0.1% market share, from seventh place in
1991, said IDD Information Services Inc., which gives full
credit to lead managers.
   That's partly because the chief financial officers of many
corporations, unsure about Salomon's future, still are edgy
about giving lead-manager roles to the big investment bank.
"We're having a hard time winning equity mandates," Mr.
Maughan said.
   Salomon's U.S. stock operations have been slashed by about
20%, to 270, through layoffs and defections. But after two
consecutive years of losses, Salomon's stock operations now
are profitable, said Bruce Hackett, Salomon's stock chief.
"If you stop the bleeding, sometimes the patient just heals,"
Mr. Hackett said.
   Through all the trouble, Salomon's high-tech bond
arbitrage group, which makes big bets on global interest-rate
moves, "continues to be profitable" and "will get us through
this interim period," Mr. Maughan said. "We haven't cut those
positions."
   In the past two years, the bulk of Salomon Brothers'
earnings -- which totaled a pretax $1.04 billion in 1991 --
came from bond trading of all sorts, particularly the
arbitrage group. This secretive operation gained fame when it
was revealed that Salomon paid one arbitrage trader, Lawrence
Hilibrand, $23 million in 1990. Mr. Hilibrand was recently
named to Salomon's executive committee.
   Though many on Wall Street believe the firm has been badly
hurt, Mr. Maughan asserts the damage is not irreparable. "I
got a black eye," he said, referring to the defections. "I
don't think I lost a leg."
   ---
   Corrections  Amplifications
                                                                                                       

   SALOMON BROTHERS Inc. is ranked No. 12, with a 2.4% market
share in stock underwritings so far this year. Because of an
error by IDD Information Services Inc., Friday's edition
misstated the numbers.
   (WSJ March 9, 1992)