Short Interest
   On Big Board,
   Amex Drops 1%
   ---
   Short Sellers of Bank Stocks
   Pulled Back in Month
   As Those Stocks Rallied
   ----
   By Robert J. Brennan
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The shorts are expected to have a rougher time this month,
as the Federal Reserve Board's action to relax bank reserve
requirements is likely to boost further the earnings outlook
for banks. The shorts "with bank exposure are going to have a
rough time" in February, said Harry Strunk, a Palm Beach,
Fla., investment consultant who tracks professional short
sellers.
   Mr. Strunk noted that 16 short-selling funds he tracks
were down 5.3% in the month, with a range among them of 10%
better to 14% down. He noted that the Standard  Poor's Corp.
500-stock index was off 2%.
   BankAmerica led the list of companies with high short
interest volumes, at more than 12.3 million shares, up from
nearly 10.8 million at the mid-January month. Its high level
is attributable to arbitrage strategies involving its shares
and Security Pacific Corp., its pending merger partner. Arbs
buy one company's shares and sell short the other's, betting
on small market price discrepancies from the valuation of the
merger. Other large bank companies, Chemical Banking and
NCNB, had similarly high short interest prior to their
mergers with Manufacturers Hanover Corp. and CS/Sovran
Corp., respectively, but are no longer the subject of
shorting.
   Citicorp's total short interest dropped 3.8 million
shares, to 10.6 million. Citicorp's share price has moved up
since the beginning of the year, prompting short sellers to
buy back shares to cover their positions. The banking concern
has recently been getting better reviews from analysts, who
sense that the worst of its troubles are over. Also, Citicorp
has been selling off some assets.
   Blockbuster Entertainment Co. also saw short interest
decline, to 11.7 million shares from 13.5 million. It
recently said its video-rental store sales are good, despite
the recession, and that it intends to expand the chain.
   Unisys Corp.'s short interest also dropped, to 10.2
million shares from 11.8 million, although it remained high
on the list. The computer company suffered from bad publicity
last year about the outlook for its businesses, particularly
defense systems. But its shares are now trading near $10,
after falling to about $2 last year.
   Saatchi  Saatchi PLC, the British-based advertising
company, had large short interest of nearly 9.8 million
American depositary receipts, up from only 585,000 the month
before. Analysts have been expecting that the debt-laden
company will report poor 1991 results next month.
   New York exchange short interest fell at the Feb. 14
settlement date to 721,935,672 shares from 729,399,078 at
mid-January. On the Amex, short interest fell to 64,238,328
shares from an adjusted 65,146,526 shares. The month included
the 22 trading days through Feb. 7.
   At mid-February 1991, short volume was 792,380,050 shares
on the Big Board.
   Traders who sell short borrow stock and sell it, betting
that the stock's price will decline and that they can buy the
shares back later at a lower price for return to the lender.
   Short interest is the number of shares that haven't yet
been purchased for return to lenders. Although a substantial
short position reflects heavy speculation that a stock's
price will decline, some investors consider an increase in
short interest bullish because the borrowed shares eventually
must be bought back.
   Fluctuation in short interest of certain stocks also may
be caused partly by arbitraging. The figures occasionally
include incomplete transactions in restricted stock.
   The level of negative sentiment measured by the Big Board
short interest ratio continued to fall, to 3.06 from
mid-January's 3.46 and mid-December's 4.20. The ratio is the
number of trading days at the exchange's average daily
trading volume that would be required to convert the total
short interest position. Average daily New York exchange
volume for the 22 trading days was 235,638,181 shares. Some
analysts suggest, however, that the ratio has weakened in
value as an indicator because options and other products can
be used to hedge short positions.
   ---
   The following tables show the Big Board and Amex issues in
which a short interest position of at least 100,000 shares
existed at mid-February or in which the short position had
changed by at least 50,000 shares since mid-January (see
accompanying tables -- WSJ Feb. 24, 1992).