International:
   Mexico City Takes
   Measures in Face
   Of Pollution Crisis
   ----
   A Wall Street Journal News Roundup
The second phase of the new smog alert plan was instituted
by city officials on Monday after levels of ozone, a critical
component of pollution, reached 398 points -- the highest
ever recorded here -- on the Mexican air quality index in the
south of the city. Ozone readings of 100, which can produce
lung irritation, is the maximum level that is acceptable by
international standards. Levels of 300 can make healthy
people sick.
   Among the companies ordered to cut back production by
between 50% and 75% were General Motors de Mexico S.A.,
Procter  Gamble de Mexico S.A., Duracell and other
manufacturers of textiles, rubber products, paper, chemicals,
metals and other products.
   But by mid-afternoon yesterday, gusts of wind washed some
of the smog out of the valley surrounding the city and
reduced ozone levels to 160 points. City officials
accordingly announced that the emergency sanctions would be
lifted at 10 p.m. last night.
   It was difficult to assess how many industries complied
with the smog alert by slowing production. At least one, a
carton manufacturer, was fined for failing to comply. But
Mexico City Mayor Manuel Camacho Solis was effusive in his
praise of industries and residents for their "maturity and
conscience" in cooperating with the smog alert.
   City officials have warned that polluters face stiff
fines. But "we can't close them because they provide goods,
services and taxes," Fernando Menendez Garza, the city's
pointman on pollution-control, said in February after ozone
levels reached 348 points.
   In recent years, Mexico City has fought pollution by
banning cars one day a week, desulfurizing diesel oil and
reducing by 50% the lead content in regular gas. New
industries that burn fuel have been banned.
   Much of the city's problems lie with its geography: It is
surrounded by mountains that trap the smog, and, at 7,000
feet above sea level, the city absorbs huge amounts of the
sun's rays. And the fact that the air here already contains
23% less oxygen than at sea level makes fuel burn poorly,
producing even more pollutants.