Goldman Seeking
   Capital for Fund
   To Invest in Equity
   ----
   By Anita Raghavan and Randall Smith
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
A draft of the private placement memorandum dated Dec. 23,
1991, for the fund, then known as GS Capital Partners L.P.,
says the fund plans to invest in leveraged acquisitions,
reorganizations and other private equity investments.
   William Benedetto, a principal in the firm of Benedetto,
Gartland  Greene Inc., which specializes in raising money
for such funds, says at least one of his clients has been
approached about investing in the new fund. Another
institutional investor said he, too, was approached about the
fund by Goldman.
   In some respects, Goldman's merchant banking fund appears
similar to funds run by other Wall Street firms, including
Morgan Stanley  Co., Merrill Lynch  Co., the Blackstone
Group, and Wasserstein Perella  Co. The draft memo says
Goldman itself plans to contribute one-third of the capital
for the new fund, up to $250 million.
   However, the new Goldman fund is unlikely to acquire
majority stakes and exercise close operating control.
Instead, the firm aims to make investments alongside clients,
such as corporate managements and other investors.
   The Water Street fund purchased junk bonds of financially
troubled companies at discount prices, then tried to
influence the companies' debt restructurings. But the
bruising workout battles prompted an outcry over Goldman's
role from some other junk-bond investors, and sometimes from
the companies themselves.
   The new Goldman fund attempts to capitalize on the Water
Street fund's track record despite the controversy. The draft
memo says Goldman has made $1.23 billion in investments since
1983, with a total annual return of 30.6%. The $783.5 million
Water Street fund, which represents three-fifths of total
Goldman investments, has had a 33.4% annual return since
mid-1990.
   The new fund, which aims to gain annual returns of 25% to
35%, won't invest in companies in which Water Street already
has a position. A spokesman for Goldman would not comment,
citing regulations restricting promotion of private placement
securities.
   The memo says the new fund's investments in
reorganizations, unlike Water Street's, will be "privately
negotiated investments in equity and equity-related
securities in companies in which {Goldman} has management
rights. {Goldman} believes that there will be substantial
opportunities for the partnership as financially troubled
companies sell attractive businesses . . . ."