Letters to the Editor:
   What Free Market?
The salaries earned by investment bankers and lawyers are
largely the product of distortions the government has
introduced into the marketplace. The scientific researcher is
probably funded by the public in whole or in part. And even
the baseball player owes his wealth to a government-run
pro-baseball cartel in which the players' union is protected
while owners are prosecuted under antitrust laws for
resisting extortionate salary demands.
   It would be nice if so-called conservatives realized that
nearly every economic decision is influenced by the
government, and that for most of the past 60 years that
influence has been unthinking and undirected when it has not
been downright malign.
   I'm a Republican -- or was until I voted for Ron Paul, the
Libertarian candidate, in 1988 -- and I find at least a ray
of hope in some of the things Paul Tsongas is saying. The
Democratic candidates actually debated on national TV the
prospect of cutting middle-class entitlements. For 12 years
the Reagan-Bush crowd has declined to spend a dime of
political capital on these difficult issues.
   If Mr. Tsongas is a fake, he'll be exposed in due course.
But this year I'm not voting for the Republican "tax
collectors for the welfare state." Herbert Stein had better
go back and study his Adam Smith before lecturing Mr. Tsongas
about the market economy.
   Lee Euler
   Baltimore
   ---
   Mr. Stein's analysis of Mr. Tsongas's economic platform
contains a Randian maxim, and a truth. In a free market we
pay most for what we value most. If a left fielder is paid 80
times the salary of a science researcher, it is by the free
choice of the market. However, a question nags me: What is
the future of a society that holds such values? Is a left
fielder more valuable than a scientist? Ayn Rand might have
asked, "Valuable to whom?" The answer would provide an
objective measure of the morality of the valuer.
   Mr. Stein makes some excellent points as to the health and
growth of the American economy. But to what purpose growth?
The market will respond with equal zeal to our demand for a
new flavor of ice cream and to our want of a cure for a fatal
disease.
   I would remind Mr. Stein that the predictions of prophets
of doom such as Malthus have not been foiled by left
fielders, but by inventors, scientists and engineers.
   Angel Rodriquez
   Rockfall, Conn.