REVIEW  OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   The Kiting 55
Compare those statements with those of the House
leadership back in October when Roll Call, the Capitol Hill
newspaper, first broke the Kitegate story. When asked if the
American people were owed an accounting, House Speaker Tom
Foley said no: "This is now a matter that is over and done
with." GOP Minority Leader Bob Michel fretted about "undue
criticism," and then finally called for an in-house probe but
without the outside counsel now routine for Congressional
ethics investigations.
   A total of 296 out of 435 current Members kited checks at
the House bank, some for trivial amounts. But some 200
overdrew their accounts by more than the amount of their next
paycheck (roughly $5,000). The committee determined that 99
of those had overdrawn their accounts at least twice. Of
those, 55 were clearly "gaming" the system and frequently
using the bank to get large no-interest loans. Together, the
Kiting 55 wrote close to $10 million in bad checks in the
space of three years.
   At first, the committee was willing to disclose the 55 top
abusers. Then the House leadership leaned on the committee to
whittle down the list of names. One reason is simple: not
only does limiting the list to 19 scapegoats protect more
Members, it also makes it difficult to assemble a House
majority for full disclosure of all the names. The 19 Members
on the committee's hit list will obviously want to have
company in their misery. Many of the 139 Members who kited no
checks will also want full disclosure. But a majority of 218
Members for full disclosure is only possible if at least 60
Members who kited at least one check vote to have their
records made public.
   The committee's whitewash won't satisfy most voters. Calls
demanding that the American people be trusted with the facts
are pouring into Rush Limbaugh and other radio talk-show
hosts. It's true there is a case for not releasing the names
of all 296 affected Members. The committee took five months
to reconstruct the full records of just the 66 worst
offenders, and some of the other records are so flawed that
they could be misleading. But Congress has squandered all the
credibility it has and then some. Consider just its more
recent scandals: Jim Wright, Tony Coelho, the backdoor pay
raise, the Keating Five, the Clarence Thomas leaks, the
cocaine ring at the House Post Office . . . and on and on.
And don't forget all the laws Congress exempts itself from,
starting with special prosecutors and ending with OSHA regs.
   Even if full disclosure is questionable, the committee's
highly subjective decision to name only 19 offenders is
ludicrous. Members who individually kited more than 600
checks in three years would go unnamed, along with others
with individual overdrafts exceeding $600,000.
   Committee members downplay the scandal by saying the money
belonged to the Members, taxpayers weren't at risk and no
crimes were committed. None of this holds up. Courts have
twice ruled that money in the House Bank is public money.
Congress has covered House Bank losses with taxpayer money
three times in its history, the last in 1947.
   As for possible crimes, Rep. Porter Goss of Florida, a
Republican who signed the committee report, doesn't accept
its view that Members with large overdrafts at the bank
couldn't have violated federal laws on reporting loans of
$10,000 or more. Idaho Rep. George Hansen went to jail in
1984 for such a violation. Mr. Goss will press for full
disclosure on the floor. He has an uphill fight. Congress
Daily reports that House Democrats are confident that
Minority Leader Bob Michel will quietly support the release
of only 19 names and splinter GOP support for more
disclosure.
   Regardless of how many names come out, it's clear the rot
in the House goes deeper. Congressional leaders have insisted
on maintaining a hopelessly corrupt 19th-century patronage
system. House Sergeant at Arms Jack Russ, the designated fall
guy for Kitegate, told Congressional Quarterly before he was
shot by muggers last week that he had warned the leadership
to clean up the Bank. "We were told flatly: `It ain't broke,
don't fix it,'" said Mr. Russ.
   Last year, Speaker Foley told a Member that the scandal at
the Bank was merely a "housekeeping" problem. Well, Kitegate
is proving that the Members can't even keep their own House
in order. More than ever, it looks as if the voters will have
to clean it out.