The Wall Street Journal / NBC News Poll
   ---
   Washington Wire:
   A Special Weekly Report From
   The Wall Street Journal's
   Capital Bureau
   ----
   Compiled by Rich Jaroslovsky
"It's the second month in a row that there's been an
uptick in the perception that things are getting better, and
that's often a precursor of economic recovery," say pollsters
Peter Hart and Vince Breglio, who conducted the survey. A new
Chamber of Commerce survey of small and medium-sized firms
finds sharply higher expectations for the economy but less
confidence about their own enterprises.
   "Business people are apprehensive that the good news they
hear today may be the same false echo of recovery they heard
last spring," says Chamber President Richard Lesher.
                                                                                                       

   NO DEAL? Israel's loan-guarantee prospects look bleak this
year.
   This week's failure by U.S. lawmakers to forge compromise
legislation means the issue could be postponed until after
the U.S. elections. One reason: overwhelming public
disapproval of the deal. The new Journal/NBC poll shows a
third of voters favor Bush's stance of making the guarantees
conditional on a settlements freeze -- and 49% oppose the
guarantees under any circumstances.
   Israeli officials scoff at Baker's private assurances that
he hasn't intended to suggest that the cost of any
settlements might be deducted from Israel's U.S. economic-aid
package. The Israelis believe Baker meant just that, as a
signal that the U.S. would still have leverage over the
settlements.
                                                                                                       

   DEMOCRATIC FRONT-RUNNERS seek to shore up weaknesses in
coming weeks.
   The Clinton camp insists he took the hard shots in Georgia
on the draft question and has put it behind him. But the poll
finds doubts remain: Veterans, for instance, view him more
negatively than other voters do. Tsongas, meanwhile, expects
attacks in states where nuclear energy is an issue.
   He'll counter that he doesn't favor building more nuclear
power plants now but wants research on smaller, safer ones,
saying nuclear is less environmentally damaging than fossil
fuels. But his big worry is economic: The poll shows the
Democratic electorate to be more populist on such issues as a
capital-gains cut, which they oppose by a three-to-two margin
while he supports it.
   Clinton strategist David Axelrod says Tsongas's suburban
target voters are just 15% of Illinois Democrats, but if he
"tries to change his message, he'll be seen as just another
politician."
                                                                                                       

   BUCHANAN DAMAGES himself as he damages Bush, the poll
suggests. The number of voters viewing him negatively has
doubled to 34% since December. Pollsters Hart and Breglio say
he is "creating a political black hole for himself."
                                                                                                       

   A GENDER GAP cuts both ways for Bush. The president
benefits from stronger support among women against Buchanan
but does worse among them in November matchups. On the
Democratic side, Clinton's gender gap has disappeared, but
women more than men still have doubts about his alleged
extramarital affair.
                                                                                                       

   AN ANTI-INCUMBENT WAVE hasn't materialized in
congressional voting intentions, despite possible March 17
losses for a couple of Illinois lawmakers. While half the
voters in the poll want to "give a new person a chance," they
still favor Democratic candidates -- most of whom are
incumbents -- over Republicans by 38% to 30%.
                                                                                                       

   SQUEEZING OR KILLING Saddam Hussein are voters' preferred
options. In the poll, 33% think the best way of forcing him
out is to maintain economic sanctions, while 27% favor
assassinating him. Only 10% support using U.S. ground troops.
                                                                                                       

   BUSH WON'T DEAL on taxes as long as Buchanan stays in the
race.
   The president's refusal to accept Democrats' demand to pay
for a bill with higher taxes on the wealthy may leave him
looking ineffectual and insensitive to the middle class. But
any compromise would surely raise new charges from the right
of reneging on his no-new-taxes pledge.
   Congressional Democrats have little political incentive to
give ground. Voters in the poll favor their tax plan over
Bush's by 65% to 28%. A 48%-42% plurality now favors a
capital-gains tax cut -- a reversal from a month ago -- but
voters still think it much less important than a middle-class
tax cut or incentives for new equipment.
   Despite Bush's opposition, voters by an overwhelming 78%
to 18% favor raising taxes on individuals with incomes above
$200,000.
                                                                                                       

   MINOR MEMOS: America first? By 68% to 24%, Americans
believe Magic Johnson shouldn't be prevented from playing on
the U.S. Olympic team. By a margin of two to one, they say
Japanese companies shouldn't be allowed to buy big-league
baseball teams. . . . Barbara Bush, Hillary Clinton and
Marilyn Quayle all have more favorable positive/negative
ratios in the poll than their husbands do.