California Agency
   Agrees to Convert
   Health Net's Status
   ----
   By David J. Jefferson
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Under terms of the transfer, Health Net paid $75 million
to a new charitable foundation, the Wellness Foundation, that
will own 80% of the company, and agreed to issue the
foundation $225 million in 15-year interest-bearing notes.
Beginning this year, Health Net will begin paying the
foundation at least $20 million a year to retire the notes.
Health Net's management and directors will own the remaining
20% of the company.
   Originally, Health Net proposed giving the foundation just
$104 million and no ownership stake, a plan that was
criticized for undervaluing the HMO's assets -- though Health
Net had maintained the price was fair and was reached using
the same process applied in converting nearly 30 other HMOs
since the early 1980s. Approval of Health Net's plan by the
California Department of Corporations was delayed for months
because of concerns about the valuation.
   "This is a message to other persons wanting to convert
that there's going to be a full price paid to the public
charity," said Michael Tennenbaum, vice chairman, investment
banking for Bear Stearns  Co. in Los Angeles, which advised
the state on the fairness of the transaction.
   "This transaction is a `win-win-win' situation," said
California Corporations Commissioner Thomas S. Sayles. "The
state wins because California has another taxpaying company
to contribute to our tax base. Health Net wins because as a
for-profit corporation it now has access to capital markets
to raise the funds necessary to accomplish its corporate
objectives. Most important, the people of California win
because millions of dollars will be available to establish
and support preventive health care programs" through the
foundation.
   A Health Net spokesman said the concern was "delighted"
that the transfer is complete.
   Last year, as Health Net was going through the transfer
process, it received a half-dozen unsolicited acquisition
bids, which it rejected. Among the bidders were Blue Cross of
California, a not-for-profit Los Angeles insurance company
that is Health Net's former parent, and from Humana Inc., a
publicly traded hospital chain based in Louisville, Ky.