Marketing  Media -- Advertising:
   Finally, Some Marketers Seem
   Ready to Give Bimbo Ads a Rest
   ----
   By Joanne Lipman
Now, a few are taking the first tentative steps to
redefine women in advertising. Stroh's Old Milwaukee beer
still hasn't given up on its much-maligned bikini team,
though the buxom blondes are on furlough for the moment. But
Anheuser-Busch's Michelob this week launched a new campaign
featuring women as real people rather than sex toys,
following the lead of sister brand Budweiser.
   And Working Woman magazine confronts the issue head-on in
a new trade advertising campaign that breaks on Monday. In a
12-page insert called "The New Face of Feminism," different
women -- and men -- help define what trend spotters these
days are calling "the new feminism."
   "There's a sea change going on the women's market that
isn't yet represented" in most advertising, says Carol Taber,
group publisher of Lang Communications and publisher of
Working Woman. "The majority of women are offended by how
they're portrayed in advertising. Advertisers should sit up
and take notice."
   The Working Woman campaign attempts to tell advertisers
just how to talk to women now, by defining the issues
confronting them. "When my daughter told me what happened to
her at work today, for the first time in my life, I
understood," says a grey-haired man, referring to sexual
harassment.
   "I'm not a feminist," says another speaker, a young woman,
"but . . . I believe in equal opportunity, equal pay and the
right to run my own life." In small print, the ad cites
research by Yankelovich Clancy Shulman showing that only 33%
of women identify themselves as feminists, but 77% think the
women's movement has made life better.
   Working Woman had a 19% decline in ad pages last year and
is trying to convince advertisers that it knows how to reach
women better than its competitors. Regardless of the
magazine's motive, advertisers can use all the advice they
can get. Ad executives concede that they're hopelessly
muddled about how to portray women in a world where feminism
has suddenly gotten such a high profile.
   Pegging women used to be easy: In the 1960s, they were
housewives. In the 1970s, they became male-clone careerists
in bowties and glasses. In the 1980s, enter SuperMoms who had
it all. And as the 1990s began, they went back to the kitchen
as new traditionalists.
   But pigeonholing the "new feminists" may not be so simple.
At the heart of the Working Woman campaign is the idea that
women now want to be respected for whatever choice they make.
Advertising researchers expect that theme to become a common
one as advertisers adjust their portrayals of women.
   "The new feminism is much more practical," says Jane
Fitzgibbon, senior vice president and director of Ogilvy 
Mather's TrendSights division. It recognizes "women's
self-esteem, that I am important no matter what I do. My
views are important and I should be believed -- that follows
from Anita Hill."
   In practice, that probably means many advertisers will shy
away from showing women in the kitchen or women at work --
for fear of riling either group. Instead, they'll stay in
neutral territory. Ms. Fitzgibbon praises Levi Strauss 
Co.'s print campaign for women's blue jeans, for one, which
shows abstract-art renderings of women in jeans rather than
the teenage sex kittens so abundant in Guess? and Jordache
ads.
   Michelob and Budweiser, too, have deliberately retreated
from sexist images of women in their ads. Budweiser last fall
led the way with a campaign featuring an
electric-guitar-playing granny; that campaign bumped one in
which young men's fantasies came to life, and in which
bikini-clad babes naturally played a major role.
   This week, Michelob also dropped the sultry women in
spandex from its advertising. Michelob is perhaps best known
for its "The Night Belongs to Michelob" campaign of a few
years back, a sort of steamy celebration of pickup bars. Its
new television effort, the first from ad agency D'Arcy Masius
Benton  Bowles, which also handles Budweiser, looks instead
like wholesome soft drink advertising. Women and men are
shown bowling in one scene, a women's softball team
celebrating in another, and two women gossiping on a porch in
a third. The new slogan: "A great day calls for a great
beer."
   Still, advertisers have a long way to go. Most ads still
cling to stereotypes of women as sex toys or career women or
moms. And old habits die hard, even among advertisers that
have tried to change their stripes. Robert Goughenour,
Anheuser-Busch's group brand director for Michelob, says
Michelob's new ads reflect an older target audience, people
at least 28 years old, rather than any concern that the old
ads were sexist.
   Indeed, he says, he believes the "Night Belongs to
Michelob" ads, in which the camera lingered over young
women's curves, would fly just fine today. "Without sounding
crass," he says, "the chase continues."
   ---
   Hayes Tapped by Lowe
                                                                                                       

   Lowe Group reeled in Geer, Dubois President John Hayes to
be president of Lowe  Partners, its New York operations, a
split that marks another bad turn for the recently troubled
Geer Dubois.
   Mr. Hayes had been credited with cementing unsteady client
relationships in his 19-month tenure working with Geer's vice
chairman and executive creative director, Rodney Underwood.
   Two Geer clients, BASF Corp. and Paddington Corp., said
they were committed to staying with Geer despite its
president's awkward departure. Other key Geer clients include
Jaguar cars and Sony Corp., for whom it buys media. Earlier
this month, Geer saw $20 million in billings from its
then-largest client, B.A.T Industries' Brown  Williamson
Tobacco Corp., walk out the door over a billings dispute.
   At Lowe, Mr. Hayes succeeds President Richard Villante,
who takes on the new job of vice chairman. In an interview,
Frank Lowe, the flamboyant chairman of the Lowe Group, a unit
of Interpublic Group, said the appointment is part of a plan
to expand the New York agency. He said he intends to propel
Lowe, the 25th-largest agency in the U.S., into the top 10
within five years.
   Lowe  Partners' announcement put an end to months of
speculation on Madison Avenue about when and if Mr. Hayes
would accept Lowe's widely known offer. While his departure
itself came as no surprise to Geer, its timing did, Geer
executives said privately.
   ---
   Ad Notes. . . .
                                                                                                       

   MCCAFFREY  MCCALL: The Caribbean Tourism Organization, a
marketing group of 28 Caribbean countries, tapped McCaffrey 
McCall to handle a new consumer campaign, estimated at $15
million.
                                                                                                       

   DENVER: Karsh  Hagan Advertising, Denver, acquired most
of the staff and clients of DDB Needham's Denver office,
which recently lost the big Safeway account. DDB, a unit of
Omnicom Group, said it would have been difficult to sustain
the office without Safeway. DDB said it has offered Karsh 
Hagan various marketing services to assist it in servicing
two McDonald's ad cooperative accounts DDB previously worked
on at the office. Terms weren't disclosed; Karsh  Hagan said
it is assuming DDB Denver billings of about $6 million.
                                                                                                       

   NEW ACCOUNTS: Thermos, a unit of Household International,
tapped Keller Crescent Co. for a new consumer print campaign.
The Evansville, Ind., agency bested finalist,
Cramer-Krasselt, Chicago, for the estimated $3 million
account, as well as contenders D'Arcy, Masius, Benton 
Bowles, Chicago; Weber, Cohn  Riley, Chicago; and
Hollingsworth, Rockford, Ill. . . . In-N-Out Burger, Baldwin
Park, Calif., awarded the creative portion of its account to
Weller, Kollewe  O'Sullivan, Los Angeles. In-N-Out Burger's
previous agency was Livingston/Keye of Venice, Calif. Western
International Media will continue as media buyer. Billings
weren't disclosed.
                                                                                                       

   WHO'S NEWS: Leo Burnett, Chicago, named senior vice
president Ella Strubel, age 51, to the post of executive vice
president of corporate affairs.
                                                                                                       

   PEPSI: PepsiCo is unveiling a third world-wide sponsorship
agreement on Monday with pop star Michael Jackson, covering
Mr. Jackson's international tour and a new ad campaign.
                                                                                                       

   DICK CLARK: The oldest teen-ager in America is starring in
a 100th anniversary ad campaign for Nabisco Shredded Wheat,
via Foote, Cone  Belding's New York office, FCB/Leber Katz
Partners. The RJR/Nabisco unit is spending an estimated $12
million on the campaign.

   ASSIGNMENT: Perrier Group of America, U.S. distributor of
Source Perrier S.A.'s mineral water, awarded the creative
assignment for its Calistoga brand to Atlas Citron Haligman 
Bedecarre, San Francisco. The account had previously been
handled by Lord, Dentsu  Partners; media planning and buying
remains with Young  Rubicam, New York.
   ---
   Corrections  Amplifications
                                                                                                       

   THERMOS Co., Schaumburg, Ill., is owned by Nippon Sanso
K.K. of Tokyo. In Friday's edition, the parent company was
misidentified.
   (WSJ Feb. 4, 1992)