Marketing  Media -- Advertising:
   Networks Try to Persuade Firms
   Not to Flee When Crisis Strikes
   ----
   By Joanne Lipman
Crises "captivate" people, gluing them to their TV
screens, says Don Browne, executive vice president of NBC
News, who puts in an appearance in the tape. "That's an
excellent environment for an advertiser to be in."
   That bold message is borne of economic necessity. In 1991,
advertisers fled by the score during extended coverage of the
Persian Gulf War. Even after the war ended, many sponsors
pulled their TV spots every time controversy reared its head.
August's unsuccessful Soviet coup prompted an advertiser
exodus, as did the politically charged Supreme Court
confirmation hearings of Clarence Thomas.
   The Gulf War cost NBC alone $55 million, for example,
including lost ad revenue and increased news coverage costs.
The other networks were also hit with big revenue losses.
Advertisers didn't want to be sandwiched in between news
clips of tanks and bombings, or they were afraid of appearing
frivolous and insensitive during somber times.
   In its video, the network association insists advertisers
fled unnecessarily, and that people don't mind ads
interrupting crisis coverage. The video cites research
showing 70% of people surveyed supported advertising in
expanded war-coverage specials, for example, and 84% to 89%
believed it was appropriate during war coverage in regularly
scheduled news programs.
   Seven out of 10 people surveyed even thought advertisers
were doing a public service by financially supporting news
coverage, the research found. The association commissioned
the research by Bruskin Research Associates, which
interviewed more than 1,000 adults.
   The video also features interviews with news executives at
all three networks, each promising sensitivity to
advertisers. Ads won't be placed next to footage of blood and
body bags, they assure advertisers. "We don't go directly
from those kinds of pictures into a commercial break. There
is often a pad section or explainer section," says Joseph
Peyronnin, vice president and assistant to the president of
CBS News.
   The executives explain how they put together the news and
commercials. When the Exxon Valdez oil spill dominated the
news, CBS made sure no Exxon ads ran adjacent to the
coverage, CBS's Mr. Peyronnin notes.
   And don't forget those terrific ratings. ABC's prime-time
coverage of the Thomas confirmation hearings drew about a 22
share. The audience is full of "news junkies. . . . {it} is
large, it's demographically correct," says Jeff Gralnick,
executive producer of special programming for ABC News, in
the video. With other special reports on the likes of the San
Francisco earthquake and the uprising at Tiananmen Square, he
adds, "we're creating an audience that's a fertile audience
for advertisers."
   But will advertisers buy that logic? American Telephone 
Telegraph is skeptical. The telecommunications giant pulled
its advertising during the Gulf War, the Soviet coup attempt
and the Thomas hearings -- and would do so again. "Research
aside, a large number of people are in a gloomy frame of
mind," an ATT spokesman says. "Our intuition says they
likely aren't receptive to commercial messages at that time."
   PepsiCo, which pulled ads from extended Gulf War coverage
but continued to advertise in regular programming, says
"common sense" dictates whether or not to go ahead with ads.
Huge ratings are terrific, a spokesman says, but "large
audience numbers have to be balanced with evaluating the
suitability of the environment."
   The networks' go-go approach is an about-face from three
decades ago. When President Kennedy was assassinated in 1963,
the networks suspended commercials for almost four days. But
Peter Chrisanthopoulos, president of the network association,
says times are very different now. Viewers are "very
sophisticated," he says. "They realize that in order for the
programming to get onto the air, advertising funds are
necessary to produce and cover the story."
   ---
   Martin Names President
                                                                                                       

   WPP Group's Martin Agency named John B. Adams as
president, succeeding Donald P. Just, who said in October
that he would resign as president and chief executive
officer.
   Martin, a Richmond, Va., agency reporting through Scali,
McCabe, Sloves, New York, was recently tapped by Scali for
regional expertise in the pitch for Mercedes-Benz's estimated
$88 million account. Mr. Adams, 43 years old, is a major
figure in that collaboration. He was formerly executive vice
president of account management and new business at Martin.
   Martin Chairman Harry M. Jacobs takes on the role of chief
executive officer following Mr. Just's departure.
   Mr. Just had been discussing an unspecified "general
management" role at Scali since October, Mr. Adams said, but
it never jelled. "That role anticipated an opportunity for
Scali to buy itself back or be purchased from WPP Group," Mr.
Adams said. "It has taken a long time . . . and Don felt he
needed to move on." Mr. Just couldn't be reached to comment.
   ---
   Burnett Shuffles Aides
                                                                                                       

   Richard B. Fizdale, Leo Burnett Co.'s new chairman and
chief executive officer, promoted several top managers and
named five of them to an "unofficial" office of the chairman.
   William T. Lynch, formerly chairman and chief executive of
the agency's U.S. unit, was named president of the worldwide
agency, reporting to Mr. Fizdale. John C. Kraft, the agency's
vice chairman of finance and administration world-wide, was
named to the additional post of chief operating officer.
World-wide Vice Chairmen Henry J. Feeley and John J. Smith
also were named to the top management team. Albert C.M.
Winninghoff, head of Burnett's Amsterdam operations, takes on
the additional title of world-wide vice chairman, director of
corporate planning.
   Mr. Fizdale said the executive team will be an
"operational link" between the agency's international and
domestic operations, which Burnett runs as two separate
companies. At the agency's helm since Jan. 1, Mr. Fizdale
said the reshuffling wasn't meant to line up his eventual
successor. "Leo Burnett plans succession well in advance of
any {public} announcement, but it doesn't happen 24 days into
a guy's watch," Mr. Fizdale said.
   In addition, James G. Oates was promoted from vice
chairman to chairman of Burnett's U.S. unit, succeeding Mr.
Lynch.
   ---
   Ad Notes. . . .
                                                                                                       

   ACCOUNTS: Bozell, New York, successfully defended its $12
million multiyear account for the U.S. National Guard,
besting competitors Grey Advertising, New York; W.B. Doner,
Baltimore; and Stackig, Sanderson  White, McLean, Va. . . .
Raleigh, N.C., agency Howard, Merrell  Partners was assigned
the consumer and trade accounts for vinyl flooring from
Congoleum Corp., Mercerville, N.J.
                                                                                                       

   SUPER BOWL: CBS said it sold all the advertising time in
yesterday's Super Bowl broadcast.