Advertising:
   TV's New `Golden Age' Gets Canceled
   ----
   By Joanne Lipman
So ATT is out of the programming game, at least
temporarily.
   ATT and a handful of other major advertisers had been
heralded in recent years for resurrecting TV's "golden age,"
recalling the 1950s, when advertisers produced such gems as
the "Texaco Star Theater" and the "Kraft Music Hall." Yet
look around now, and most are nowhere to be found.
   Chrysler has shelved its "Chrysler Showcase."
Bristol-Myers Squibb has abandoned its TV specials. And
Campbell Soup has given up on made-for-TV movies. Even giant
International Business Machines, whose U.S. unit produced "A
Christmas Carol" a few years ago, has cut back to focus on
print advertising.
   The advertisers had plunged into TV production with
visions of breaking through the clutter of regular ads. They
hoped to associate their brand names with quality programs
instead of exploitative trash about sex and murders. A few
even thought they could save a little money, defraying
production costs with Hollywood-style tricks like selling
foreign and cable rights.
   Instead, the sponsors found that the TV business wasn't as
simple as it seemed. Programs took far longer to make than
planned, network ratings kept sliding, and the advertisers
simply didn't have what it takes to consistently prevent
great scripts from turning into lousy movies. Sometimes
specials weren't properly promoted, or their family-fare
content was deemed too boring by viewers.
   Worse yet, the economy worked against them. Producing a
two-hour TV movie can easily cost more than $3 million,
though advertisers sometimes share that with a partner. At
the same time, advertisers were under pressure to pare ad
budgets and other expenses. ATT's TV production funds, for
example, came out of its corporate ad budget. But the company
is "running virtually no corporate advertising right now"
because it's redesigning its corporate ad program, says Bob
Watson, director of advertising services.
   "Everything has come to a temporary, grinding halt," says
Werner Michel, who oversees advertiser programming as a
senior vice president at ad agency Bozell, whose clients
include Chrysler. And at ad agency Ayer, whose clients
include ATT and General Motors, "based on the current
economy, we've reached an apex for a while," says Aaron
Cohen, director of network and programming.
   Most advertisers hope to get back into programming in some
way when the economy improves -- but when and if they do,
they will be a chastened lot.
   Chrysler, for example, launched its "Chrysler Showcase"
series of movie specials in 1986 and planned ultimately to
air four a year, each around an important car-buying period.
But it never mastered the business well enough to produce its
specials so frequently; as a result, audience recognition
remained low. Some of the "Showcase" specials also got
disastrous ratings, such as the 1988 Valerie Bertinelli
vehicle "Pancho Barnes."
   "With all your eggs in one basket, there's no recourse,"
says Jim Julow, manager of advertising and media relations.
The lesson Chrysler learned: "Our business is the car
business, not the entertainment business." Chrysler is now
taking the less risky route of getting involved as a partner
on some future TV projects.
   The retreat comes as the networks are more eager than ever
to attract advertiser-supplied programming. The networks,
under financial pressure themselves, can no longer afford to
finance all of their biggest projects. "We've always been
receptive, but we're more aggressive about pursuing it than
in the past," says Larry Strichman, vice president for
miniseries and client specials at CBS.
   Yet despite Mr. Strichman's best efforts,
advertiser-supplied programming has dwindled 15%, he
estimates. CBS airs 55 made-for-TV movies a year, and ideally
he would like 12 to 15 of those to come from advertisers. But
advertisers provided only five this year, and he expects only
seven or eight at best next year.
   Among the dropouts is Campbell Soup. In 1988 the company
plunged into TV movie production strictly as a way to save
money. It planned to co-produce eight to 10 network movies,
primarily so that it could later offer the films to
independent TV stations in return for free commercial time.
   But Campbell dropped that game plan after producing only
four films, including 1990's "The Jessica McClure Story," the
true tale of the little girl trapped for two days in a
backyard well. Independent TV stations' ad prices have been
in a downward spiral, so the barter arrangement "doesn't make
as much sense as it used to right now," a spokesman concedes.
He also says Campbell has changed its ad strategy to promote
individual products rather than its overall brand name.
   Don't look for Bristol-Myers Squibb to be a big TV
producer, either. A few years ago, it dipped into TV
production with "People Magazine on TV," which it coowned
with Time Warner's People magazine. But the drug maker has
since dropped the costly project. "It's tougher under this
economy to do special programming at a premium" price, says
Peter Spengler, a Bristol-Myers vice president.
   Others are still in the game. Hallmark Cards' 40-year-old
"Hall of Fame" presentations, which have won more than 70
Emmy awards, are still going strong at a pace of four to five
a year. Packaged goods giants Procter  Gamble and Kraft
General Foods, along with General Motors, continue their
efforts. PG, which has long produced soap opera staples like
"The Guiding Light" and "As the World Turns," produced two
movies this TV season.
   Even though so many TV productions already have turned
into multimillion-dollar debacles, some advertisers plan to
take an even more expensive and riskier step: developing
weekly series, which can easily eat up $1.2 million to $1.3
million for each hour. Hallmark is working on a weekly drama
for CBS based on last season's "Hall of Fame" special,
"Sarah, Plain and Tall." Campbell Soup is considering series
and other forms of TV production.
   "The movies and specials are just the tip of the iceberg,"
says Jeff Grant, director of broadcast programming for ad
agency D'Arcy Masius Benton  Bowles, which produces movies
for PG and Kraft. "There's a lot of things going on that
will allow us to become involved in general programming."
   Even the somewhat humbled executives at ATT hope to get
back into TV programming when the corporate ad budget is
revived, perhaps as soon as next year. "With the incredible
amount of {commercial} clutter out there, it's a way to break
through," says ATT's Mr. Watson. "We still believe there's a
place for that concept at the advertiser's table."
   ---
   Coke to Sign Culkin
                                                                                                       

   Coca-Cola Co., Atlanta, is on the verge of signing
pint-sized actor turned millionaire Macauley Culkin to appear
in commercials for Sprite.
   The deal is expected to cover two commercials for the
lemon-lime soft drink, industry executives said. At least one
would include a tag for "Home Alone 2," 20th Century Fox's
sequel to its hugely successful film "Home Alone." The deal
could be worth as much as $2 million to 11-year-old Mr.
Culkin, according to a report in the Hollywood Reporter
yesterday.
   If signed, the endorsement would seem to mark a coup for
Coke. Archrival PepsiCo had a contract with Mr. Culkin for a
"Home Alone" promotion last summer, tied to the film's
release on home video. Talks to expand Mr. Culkin's role fell
through for financial and strategic reasons, another industry
executive said.
   Coke said it wouldn't comment on "rumors and speculation."
Sam Cohn, Mr. Culkin's agent, didn't return phone calls
seeking comment. Interpublic Group's Lowe  Partners, the
agency for Sprite, referred inquiries to Coke.
   ---
   Calling All Creatives
                                                                                                       

   WPP Group's J. Walter Thompson is seeking budding art
directors and copywriters with two creative aptitude tests
printed in a full-page ad in yesterday's New York Times.
   Among the test's challenges: Artists are asked to design a
new logo for the fictional Logo Co. and to "visualize your
way out of a paper bag." Writers are asked to devise a
100-word history of the U.S. and a 200-word "Dialogue in a
Dark Alley."
   The agency said it has hired 15 copywriters from
"thousands" of responses to two previous ads. "I always felt
there were people who'd be great at advertising if we could
just get them in an easier way," said Chairman James
Patterson. "Stephen King, when he was a struggling teacher,
would have made a great advertising writer."
   ---
   Ad Notes. . . .
                                                                                                       

   AEGIS: Aegis Group PLC, London, reported its first decline
in net income since going public eight years ago. Net in 1991
fell to #34.2 million ($55.9 million), or 21.11 pence per
share, an 18.6% decline from earnings in 1990. Aegis owns big
European media buyer Carat.
                                                                                                       

   NORWEGIAN CRUISE: As expected, Kloster Cruise Ltd.
assigned its Norwegian Cruise Line account to Omnicom Group's
Goodby, Berlin  Silverstein, San Francisco, ending a
three-week search. Goodby has worked for Kloster's Royal
Viking Line since 1986.
                                                                                                       

   MAGAZINE AD INCREASE: Magazine ad pages crept up 0.9% in
February, the first increase since August 1990, the
Publishers Information Bureau said. February ad revenue
totaled $528.2 million, up 4.9% from a year earlier.
                                                                                                       

   RUFFIES: Carlisle Plastics, Minneapolis, paid $45,000 to
settle charges of misleading advertising from 10 state
attorneys general over the terms "degradable" and
"compostable" on Ruffies trash bag packaging. The company,
which admitted no wrongdoing, said it is allowed to use
"compostable" and "source reduction" under "appropriate
circumstances."
                                                                                                       

   ACCOUNTS ABROAD: Saatchi Australian unit George Patterson
Advertising, Sydney, won the estimated $26 million account of
Optus Communications, the country's second telecommunications
carrier approved earlier this year. . . . Bozell, New York,
said it had entered a nonequity affiliation with Swedish
agency Welinder Stockholm. . . . Leo Burnett's Madrid office,
Vitruvio/Leo Burnett, won the account for McDonald's
restaurants in Spain.