Bush Backs Off
   Plan to Propose
   Medicare Cuts
   ---
   Formula to Save $40 Billion
   Dropped From Speech
   On Health-Care Package
   ----
   By Hilary Stout
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
But complaints from some Republicans in Congress and
general political apprehension have led the White House to
erase the specifics of the Medicare proposals. Instead,
people familiar with the plan say, the White House plans to
offer simply a long list of suggested savings from the
federal health insurance program for the elderly.
   Earlier, political worries forced the administration to
scrap another controversial element of the health-care plan,
a proposal to tax the employer-paid health benefits of some
highly paid workers. That idea, which White House budget
director Richard Darman insisted was essential to bringing
price sensitivity and competition to the health-care market,
was dropped after congressional Republicans argued the
president would be committing political suicide by proposing
it.
   Administration officials still believe substantial savings
must be made in Medicare to pay for the tax breaks, projected
to cost $100 billion over five years. They intend to present
a variety of options, without attaching dollar amounts to any
of them, ranging from finding administrative savings to
scaling back payments to research hospitals. "You won't be
able to pin down what the Medicare savings will be," said one
high-ranking official.
   By making suggestions rather than specific proposals,
President Bush would say, "Here are the options. You make it
all add up," another White House official said. The advantage
of this approach, the official explained, is that "it spares
us getting whacked" on the nettlesome issue of paying for the
tax breaks while allowing Mr. Bush to receive credit for
proposing them.
   The president still intends to propose capping federal
payments under Medicaid, the health program for low-income
people. Medicaid is financed jointly by the U.S. government
and the states.
   Under the president's proposal, the federal government's
Medicaid payments initially could grow no more than the
increase in the Consumer Price Index plus six percentage
points. The differential would fall to two percentage points
in five years.
   Currently, federal Medicaid payments are tied to what each
state chooses to spend; federal outlays for the program are
expected to jump more than 37% this year. Officials estimate
the cap could save at least $35 billion over five years. They
hope the limits would encourage states to enroll Medicaid
beneficiaries in health maintenance organizations and other
fixed-price, prepaid health plans.
   The plan that Mr. Bush will unveil was crafted under deep
political pressure, and has wrought considerable
consternation within the Republican party. It was only after
Harris Wofford, campaiging for national health insurance,
upset former Attorney General Dick Thornburgh in a fall
Pennsylvania Senate election, that the administration began a
full-court press to come up with a plan.
   While Mr. Darman had long argued for addressing the
nation's health-care problems, former White House Chief of
Staff John Sununu repeatedly blocked efforts to do so,
arguing that specific proposals on health care can only be
political losers in an election year. Mr. Sununu was forced
to resign in December, but some officials said he seems to be
proving to be right.
   Republican members of Congress have made just that point
in meetings with White House officials over the past few
weeks, where they have encouraged officials to remove
specific proposed cuts. "Largely what we said is there's
always such a strong urge on the part of Republicans to be
responsible, but in this particular case the exercise of
responsibility will kill your solution," said Sen. David
Durenberger (R, Minn.), who has participated in a number of
meetings and conversations with officials over the plan.
   "We said put everything on the table that you've got, but
don't do it dollar per dollar, except on the Medicaid side,"
he added.
   Administration officials argue that their plan still will
address the financing question in more detail than many
Democratic proposals now in Congress.
   Rather than expand government benefit programs, the
administration would give poor people tax credits to help buy
health insurance. Unlike normal tax credits, these credits
would work as vouchers. They would be collected by states to
pay for private health insurance on behalf of the
beneficiaries. Anyone who didn't want the state benefit
package could request the voucher and shop elsewhere for
coverage.
   To start, the full credits of $3,750 for families, $2,500
for couples and $1,250 for individuals would be available
only to people with incomes less than half of the
government's official poverty line. For families, that means
an income of less than $7,000 a year. Smaller credits would
be available for people whose incomes range from 50% of the
poverty level up to the poverty line. By the fifth year of
the program, the full credit would be available to everyone
under the poverty line and a smaller credit would be
available to people with incomes up to 50% above the poverty
level.
   Middle-income people could deduct some of the cost of
health insurance, including costs their employers don't pick
up. Families with annual incomes under $80,000 could deduct
up to $3,750; individuals with incomes under $50,000 could
deduct up to $1,250.
   Despite the administration's strong free-market bent, the
plan will contain a considerable amount of new regulation,
officials say. For example, it will propose prohibiting
insurance companies from refusing to cover people with
pre-existing medical conditions, currently a common practice.
And it will forbid them from denying coverage to anyone who
has been previously insured; that is intended to address a
growing concern among working people that they are in danger
of losing health insurance if they switch jobs.
   ---
   John Harwood and David Wessel contributed to this article.