Legislator's Plan
   Limits Japan's
   U.S. Auto Sales
   ---
   Sen. Baucus Wants Curbs
   At 1991 Level to Allow
   The Big 3 to Catch Up
   ----
   By Eduardo Lachica
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
"The time for gimmicks and Band-Aids is over," he said,
referring to President Bush's belated efforts to increase
U.S. sales of cars and auto parts in Japan.
   The Montana Democrat said he will introduce the plan to
his colleagues in the Senate today as a "doable" alternative
to the more Draconian, import-slashing measure sponsored by
Sen. Donald Riegle (D., Mich.) and House Majority Leader
Richard Gephardt (D., Mo.). The Gephardt-Riegle legislation
would require Japan to reduce its trade surplus with the U.S.
over five years. The bill would put the burden of
accomplishing this task on Japan.
   The Baucus plan calls for bilateral negotiations to set
car-sale limits. But if those negotiations fail, tariffs
would be imposed against Japanese imports to achieve the 1991
sales level.
   The proposed curbs would affect production of so-called
transplants, or assembly facilities established in the U.S.
by Japanese auto makers, as well as their exports. Japanese
nameplate cars turned out by these U.S. facilities would be
subject to limits unless the cars have at least 70% U.S.
content.
   The Big Three also must reduce their executive salaries to
"international levels," Sen. Baucus said.
   Under the Baucus plan, the International Trade Commission,
a quasi-judicial federal agency, would review the program
every two years and, if necessary, recommend adjustments. The
commission could recommend scrapping the limits entirely if
the Big Three domestic auto makers fail to increase
significantly the quality and performance of their products.
   Sen. Baucus said his plan is intended to encourage U.S.
companies to reinvest more of their earnings in new plants,
worker training and joint research.
   The Bush administration is unlikely to accept either the
Gephardt-Riegel or Baucus formulas. "We don't believe in
legislating markets or prices," a U.S. trade official said.
But congressional aides aren't ruling out the possibility
that the administration could act quietly to deter Japanese
auto makers from taking advantage of Detroit's current
vulnerability to the weak U.S. economy.
   A spokesman for General Motors Corp. said yesterday that
the No. 1 U.S. auto maker "appreciates Sen. Baucus's
objective of improving the current state of U.S.-Japanese
automobile trade," but would prefer to resolve trade issues
through "ongoing negotiations at the government and industry
levels." The spokesman said GM had no immediate reaction to
Sen. Baucus's proposal to limit executive salaries.
   It's unlikely, however, that Detroit's auto makers will
welcome caps on executive salaries, or government review of
their quality, as a quid pro quo for trade-protection.
   The Japanese government is poised to reject the Baucus
plan outright. "It's managed trade," argued Hiroshi
Hirabayashi, the deputy chief of mission of the Japanese
Embassy here. He said the plan would violate multilateral
trade rules and the U.S.-Japan treaty of commerce, if the
U.S. interfered with transplant production.
   Japan currently has a self-imposed limit of 2.3 million
cars that it can ship to the U.S. annually. It is expected to
readjust that figure before its fiscal year ends March 31.
There are no official limits, however, on the growth of
transplant production.