Marketing  Media:
   Philip Morris Said
   To Agree to Change
   In Labeling Policy
   ----
   By Lourdes Lee Valeriano
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The policy change was disclosed by the Rev. Michael
Crosby, a spokesman for the Midwest Province of the Capuchin
Order, which owns shares in Philip Morris and has been
pushing such a move. Fr. Crosby said adoption of the policy
was contingent on the order withdrawing its plan to introduce
a similar resolution in this year's annual shareholders
meeting.
   A spokesman for Philip Morris said the company had been
contemplating such a move but couldn't confirm that it had
made the policy change. However, he played down the
significance of the move because most of its cigarette
packages already contain such warnings.
   With the U.S. cigarette business shrinking, American
tobacco merchants are depending more and more on
international sales. Total tobacco revenue for Philip Morris
was $23.84 billion last year, with $12.28 billion coming from
overseas markets.
   Scott Ballin of the American Heart Association in
Washington said he saw Philip Morris's move as an effort to
blunt anti-smoking sentiment -- and any possible restrictive
legislation that could result -- in potentially rich Third
World markets. He cites the company's plan, contained in a
document sent to the Capuchin friars, to initially use
English warning labels "until such time as dialogue with
agencies of the local governments in question result in
warnings calling for different content and/or language."
   "It's a strategy on their part to ensure that they
continue to have some say over the labeling of tobacco
products," said Mr. Ballin.
   Brenda Follmer, spokeswoman for R.J. Reynolds Tobacco
International, the international tobacco unit of RJR Nabisco
Holdings Inc., said the nation's second-largest tobacco
marketer is also considering including health warning labels
on all of its cigarette packages.
   "As everybody's international business grows, we're all
looking at this issue," said Ms. Follmer.
   Ms. Follmer says more than 100 countries already require
warning labels, with the U.S. and some Scandinavian countries
having the toughest requirements. She says labeling has
become a growing issue as some of the Eastern European
markets open for the first time to U.S. companies.
   Like the Philip Morris officials, Ms. Follmer plays down
the importance of the decision: "Because so many countries
already require warning labels, I just don't see this as a
big issue."