Linen Switches
   His American
   Express Posts
   ----
   By Steven Lipin
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The moves are the latest in a series of management changes
at the company's TRS unit, which has been buffeted by falling
profits and problems with its Optima credit card. The action
signals that the company is trying to bring its best minds
together to strengthen the management team of the division,
which includes the flagship green card, company officials and
analysts said.
   Last fall Harvey Golub, chairman of IDS Financial
Services, was named chairman and chief executive of TRS in a
major management shake-up that stemmed from unexpected losses
at the Optima creditcard business. The 53-year-old Mr. Golub
succeeded two senior executives of TRS but needed another
hands-on executive to run day-to-day operations. Edwin
Cooperman, chairman and co-chief executive officer of TRS,
resigned in October, and G. Richard Thoman, the other
co-chief executive, was named a vice chairman in October but
is retiring in June, the company said yesterday.
   Once a cash cow that often supported money-losing
operations within the American Express family of companies,
TRS profit slid 59% in 1991 to $396 million. Competition from
credit cards has eroded the green card's franchise, and
profits have been hurt by the recession and the falloff in
business travel.
   "TRS probably needs a little more horsepower," said
Michael Blumstein, a securities analyst at Morgan, Stanley 
Co. "Linen really grew up in TRS, and it's not surprising
that he's going back."
   All TRS business units will report to Mr. Linen, but his
responsibilities will include "rebuilding the American
Express brand franchise," said James D. Robinson III,
chairman and chief executive of the New York financial
services company. In recent months American Express has
launched a new advertising campaign, and rolled out a new
strategy for its loss-plagued Optima card.
   But it will be a daunting challenge for the 48-year-old
Mr. Linen, who started out 22 years ago as an assistant to
Howard Clark Sr., American Express's then chairman. In a
letter to employees yesterday, Mr. Golub acknowledged that
"the job ahead will not be easy."
   The move comes less than two years after Mr. Linen was
brought in to resuscitate Shearson, the nation's
second-largest brokerage firm. After posting a $966 million
loss in 1990, Shearson prospered under Mr. Linen's guidance.
Buoyed by the stock-market rally, Shearson earned $207
million in 1991; those are the best results since 1986, when
Shearson made $344 million.
   "He has helped to engineer a solid turnaround at Shearson
Lehman," said Mr. Robinson.
   Despite the profit rebound, however, the refined Mr. Linen
never quite fit in with Shearson's rough-and-tumble culture,
people familiar with the firm said. He championed some
American Express influences at the big brokerage firm; these
include strict guidelines to brokers for "cold calling,"
those unsolicited calls to prospective clients.
   Mr. Laird, a 15-year American Express veteran who is not
that well-known in the brokerage industry, was somewhat of a
surprise choice, analysts said. He was chosen because he is
"schooled in American Express's philosophy of management," a
person familiar with Shearson said yesterday. He will
continue to report to Howard L. Clark Jr., chairman of
Shearson Lehman Brothers.
   While Mr. Laird could be stretched thin with the two
positions, a company spokesman said he will be turning over a
good deal of the day-to-day management of Boston Co. to two
senior executives who will be given additional
responsibilities. Still, some analysts believe Shearson's
veteran brokerage executive Joseph Plumeri, who heads up
Shearson's private client group, will assume more power
within Shearson's brokerage operations.
   ---
   Michael Siconolfi contributed to this article.