America's Growing Economic Lead
   ----
   By Lawrence B. Lindsey
Research by Andrew Warner of Harvard University and the
Federal Reserve shows that, contrary to popular belief,
America's advantage is in the production of high-technology
capital goods, and that this advantage has been growing. A
key reason for the recent boom in exports has been the rapid
rise of world-wide spending on capital goods.
   Back in the late 1960s, when by all accounts the U.S. was
the world's industrial giant, manufacturing amounted to about
22% of real gross domestic product. Much of this
manufacturing went into defense and the production of
consumer goods from shirts to automobiles. Only 28% of the
manufacturing base was devoted to capital goods such as
computers, aircraft and industrial machinery, and only 20% of
American capital-goods were exported. The total value of U.S.
capital goods exports was just 1.4% of GDP.
   Today, when some assert that the U.S. has lost its
manufacturing base, manufacturing output has risen to 23% of
real GDP. The share of the manufacturing base devoted to
capital goods has risen to 38%. This capital-goods boom has
been made possible by exports: About 45% of capital goods
output is now sold abroad, more than double the proportion of
the late 1960s. Capital-goods exports now amount to 4% of
GDP.
   Contrary to the pessimists' view, a major part of this
improvement occurred during the 1980s, and particularly the
late 1980s. During the 1980s, the growth in real exports
amounted to one-fifth of the real growth of the economy.
Inflation-adjusted growth in exports of capital goods
outpaced overall growth by better than two to one. Since
1986, the story is even more striking. Nearly half of
America's real economic growth over the past five years has
been in exports.
   Also contrary to the pessimists' claims, U.S. exports have
become less based on farm and other primary goods and more
focused on high technology. Capital equipment has risen to
41% of U.S. exports from 30% in the late 1960s, largely as a
result of the world-wide investment boom: As other countries
develop their economies, they purchase increasing amounts of
Americanmade machines, computers and airplanes.
   During the past two decades, the investment share of world
product has risen to 26% from 22%. In dollar terms, gross
world investment outside the U.S. in 1992 will be roughly $5
trillion.
   We should hope that this process continues, not only for
humanitarian reasons, but also to benefit the American
economy. Each 1% in world investment spending produces a 1.5%
increase in exports of capital goods, and almost a full point
increase in total merchandise exports. Strikingly, not only
does the relationship between world-wide investment and U.S.
exports pass traditional statistical tests easily, the
relationship stands up to a wide variety of mathematical and
statistical specifications. In fact, the link between U.S.
exports and world-wide investment shows some signs of having
strengthened in recent years.
   It is interesting to contrast the U.S. performance with
that of Japan. There is no evidence of a statistical
relationship between Japanese exports and world investment
spending over the past quarter century. There does appear to
be some improvement over time for Japan, although this
improving trend does not pass statistical muster. Further,
even at its highest, the sensitivity of Japanese exports to
world-wide investment spending remained below America's.
   One reason for the popularity of the pessimists' view is
that America's strengths are not apparent in goods that
consumers normally buy. To see them, one has to visit
factories, construction sites and airport hangars -- not your
usual tourist stops.
   The regional composition of investment also appears to be
shifting in America's favor. Latin America as a whole and
Mexico in particular are increasing their pace of investment.
During 1989, the U.S. exported twice as many capital goods to
Latin America as did Japan. The other area of potential
investment in the years ahead is the former communist bloc,
which could become a staggering source of future growth of
U.S. capital goods exports.
   The most urgent message of this analysis is that
encouraging faster worldwide economic development might be
the single most effective policy for promoting the growth of
exports. The export-promotion policy that many suggest as an
alternative to freer trade is a reduction in the exchange
value of the dollar. This has three potential drawbacks.
First, it's not clear that a country's monetary authorities
can control the value of their currency. Second, if
foreign-exchange markets perceive that devaluation is an
intended policy of the U.S. government, interest rates in
assets denominated in dollars might rise to offset the
exchange-rate loss. Third, devaluation would reduce
Americans' purchasing power and standard of living.
   Recent history provides a good test of the relative
efficacy of world-wide investment and exchange-rate
depreciation. The late 1980s were a period not only of
rapidly growing world-wide investment spending, but also of
real dollar depreciation. During the five years following the
Plaza Accord of 1985, the dollar fell 38% on a tradeweighted
basis. World-wide investment spending rose 38% over the same
period.
   Over those five years, total U.S. merchandise exports rose
$192 billion in inflation-adjusted terms. $106 billion of the
additional merchandise exports, or 55%, was statistically
associated with the rise of global investment.
   Let there be no mistake: Neither America nor any other
country can expect to enjoy an economic free ride. Americans
should continue their efforts to reform the nation's schools,
increase the investment rate, encourage the natural
entrepeneurship of the population and subject government
spending and regulation to rigorous cost-benefit tests. But
these are commonsense ideas that we would be well advised to
undertake regardless of the international trading situation.
   There may be some advantage in having Mr. Miyazawa and his
countrymen think that America is in decline. It probably pays
to be underestimated. But we would be foolish to
underestimate ourselves. World economic trends are moving our
way and we do not need to be protected from them. If
anything, we need to reinforce them and to increase our
exposure to them. The best industrial policy for America to
pursue is active involvement in the world's affairs to
promote global economic development and free trade.
   ---
   Mr. Lindsey is a governor of the Federal Reserve, in
Washington, D.C.