Disney Splits
   Its Stock 4 for 1
   And Shares Soar
   ---
   Close of $146.50 Sets Record
   As Firm Aims to Make
   Its Common `Accessible'
   ----
   By David J. Jefferson
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Wall Street was cheered by the action as well. "It's a
psychological boost and an indication that management has
confidence in their performance and that the stock price can
be sustained," said Harold Vogel, entertainment analyst for
Merrill Lynch. "These are all signals that things will be
continuing on a positive path for the next few quarters,
especially with prospects for a pickup in attendance at the
theme parks," which have been hurt by the recession.
   It was the first stock split since the entertainment
giant, based in Burbank, Calif., declared a 4-for-1 split in
January 1986. Before the 1986 split, Disney shares were
trading at $120, after having slipped as low as $45.25 a
share during the 1984 takeover battles that precipitated the
appointment of the Eisner-Wells team.
   "The price of our shares has recently moved higher after
having been well above the $100 figure for most of the past
three years," Mr. Eisner said. "By taking this action, our
board hopes to make Disney shares accessible to a broader
segment of the investing public."
   The Disney brand name makes its stock popular with
individual investors and the company is well aware that a
share of Disney makes an affordable baptism or bar mitzvah
gift. Notes C.J. Lawrence analyst Peter Appert: "Having a
lower stock price-point makes it more available and more
attractive to individual or retail investors, as opposed to
institutions" who hold about 41% of the company's 131 million
shares outstanding.
   The split will increase the total shares outstanding to
524 million, ranking Disney 13th on the New York Stock
Exchange in terms of shares (Exxon Corp. is No. 1 with 1.81
billion shares). With a total market capitalization of more
than $19 billion, Disney is by far the most highly
capitalized entertainment concern, Mr. Appert said.
   The split is subject to shareholder approval of an
increase in the number of Disney's authorized common shares
to 1.2 billion from the current 300 million and a
corresponding reduction in the par value from 10 cents to 2.5
cents. Disney will hold a special shareholders meeting April
20 in Burbank. If the amendments are approved, the split
would be effective immediately to shareholders of that date.
   With theme park attendance down in recent months, Mr.
Eisner told shareholders yesterday that he is encouraged by
advanced booking figures at Disney's resorts in Florida and
California and the response to the company's national
advertising. Chief financial officer Richard Nanula told
shareholders that he was "cautiously optimistic" about the
company's financial performance this year, and that Disney is
already showing signs of recovery in its businesses.
   Operating profits from Disney's theme parks and resorts
fell 18% in the last quarter compared with a year ago. But
the drop has more than been offset by a blockbuster
performance at the company's film division: last quarter,
operating profit and revenue from films exceeded theme parks
for the first time in 25 years; and just this past weekend,
Disney had half of the top-ten films at the box office, an
unprecedented number according to the studio.
   In the first quarter ended Dec. 31, Disney's net income
rose to $208.1 million, or $1.56 a share, from $170.4
million, or $1.28 a share, a year earlier. Revenue climbed to
$1.94 billion from $1.49 billion. Mr. Eisner has said that he
expects results for fiscal 1992 to "be far superior" to 1991,
when the company's net income dropped 23% to $636.6 million,
or $4.78 a share, on a 5.8% increase in revenue to $6.18
billion.
   Messrs. Eisner and Wells also tried to douse recent
speculation in the European press that the company's $3
billion Euro Disney theme park and resort near Paris has been
plagued with problems and won't open as scheduled on April
12. "Michael reiterated that it will open on time and within
budget and that recent reports on problems with contractors
in Europe are greatly exaggerated," a Disney spokesman said.
Though there had been some reports Disney was having trouble
finding workers for the French park, the spokesman said the
company has already hired 11,000 of the 12,000 employees it
will need by opening day.
   At the meeting, Disney also elected as a director Robert
A. M. Stern, an architect who has designed several hotels and
office buildings for Walt Disney World and Euro Disney.
Longtime directors Caroline Lionetti Ahmanson and former
Disney chief executive Donn Tatum retired, leaving total
board membership at 13.
   Separately, Daily Variety reported yesterday that Oriental
Land Co., which owns Tokyo Disneyland, has turned down plans
to build a second theme park in Japan similar to the
Disney-MGM Studios in Florida. A Disney spokesman said the
companies are continuing to discuss possibilities for another
type of theme park, however. Matsushita Electric Industrial
Co., owner of Disney archrival MCA Inc., last year announced
plans to build an $80 million "entertainment zone" with
shops, restaurants and some amusement attractions near Osaka
that is set to open in the summer of 1994. MCA also has been
contemplating a major theme park in Japan for several years.