Law -- Legal Beat:
   Iowa State University Files Suit
   Against Fax Firms in Patent Fight
   ----
   By Arthur S. Hayes and Wade Lambert
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
Steven Price, a director of the research foundation, said
the process was devised by David Nicholas in 1971 as part of
his doctoral thesis in electrical engineering. Mr Nicholas,
47, an engineer employed by a unit of Rockwell International
Corp. in Cedar Rapids, Iowa, was awarded a patent in 1973,
Mr. Price said, and stands to net a percentage of royalties
paid to the university, which owns the patent.
   Mr. Price said that Mr. Nicholas's encoding process wasn't
designed specifically for fax machines. But it has been
adapted to accelerate the transmission and improve the
legibility of the printed message.
   The suits against the two manufacturers -- filed before
Judge Harold Vietor of the federal district court in Des
Moines, Iowa, on Dec. 31 -- are the latest maneuvers in a
university campaign that targets 39 makers and retailers of
fax machines. Joseph Grear of the law office of Rolf Stadheim
in Chicago, which represents the university, said his client
stands to reap big payments from settlements and many
millions more from jury awards that could result in treble
damages.
   Mr. Grear said the university is asking for compensatory
damages for royalties from sales from May 1985 to December
1990, when the patent expired. The defendants, Mr. Price
said, either knowingly infringed on the patent or developed
the process independently after Mr. Nicholas was awarded his
patent. In the latter case, he added, they would still have
to pay royalties to the patent holder, Mr. Price added.
   Mr. Price said the university attempted to reach
settlements with Murata and NEC and sued only after it became
confident no settlement could be reached. He said the
university has settled with 11 other companies, including
Canon Inc., that require the companies to pay the university
$8 for every $1,000 in sales of fax machines using the
process from 1985 to 1990. Jack O'Brien, an attorney with
Fitzpatrick, Cella, Harper & Scinto in New York, which
represents Canon, confirmed the existence of the agreement
but declined to comment on the amount of payment.
   According to Keith Kuzmin, an analyst with Venture
Development Corp. in Natick, Mass., faxes weren't in wide use
until the early 1980s, when transmission time accelerated to
less than a minute a page. Previously, transmission had taken
three times as long. The speed-up, which Iowa State
attributes to its patented process, sparked the boom in sales
of fax machines for everyday office use, Mr. Kuzmin said.
Now, with prices falling to below $500, customers are buying
them for home-office use.
   Evan Finkel, an attorney with Spensley Horn Jubas & Lubitz
in Los Angeles, which represents Murata, said the company
declined to comment. NEC also declined to comment on the
suit, said Lourdes Cogswell, a company spokeswoman.
   ---
   PSYCHIATRIST in stock case gets probation, so he can still
treat patients.
   Robert H. Willis pleaded guilty to trading on confidential
information he learned during the therapy sessions of a
patient, Joan Weill, wife of financier Sanford Weill. Dr.
Willis bought stock in BankAmerica Corp. in early 1986 after
Ms. Weill told him that her husband was seeking to become
chief executive officer of BankAmerica. He also passed the
information on to his broker.
   Although U.S. Judge Miriam Cedarbaum called Dr. Willis's
conduct "reprehensible," she said she decided not to send him
to prison partly out of concern for the continued treatment
of his other long-term patients. Instead, Judge Cedarbaum, of
federal court in Manhattan, sentenced Dr. Willis to five
years probation and ordered him to pay a fine of $150,000.
Dr. Willis, of Tenafly, N.J., has agreed to pay an additional
$136,580 to settle a related suit brought by the Securities
and Exchange Commission.
   Judge Cedarbaum said, "It is with misgiving that I do not
sentence you to imprisonment." Citing letters of praise she
had received from many of Dr. Willis's patients, she added,
"I sincerely hope the letters from your patients reflect your
true character."
   She also ordered Dr. Willis to perform 600 hours of
community service each year while he is on probation. Dr.
Willis's attorney, Edward Brodsky, said his client will
provide couseling to the homeless and people with AIDS.
   Dr. Willis, 52 years old, could face additional penalties,
however, from state medical regulators and the American
Psychiatric Association. In criminal cases involving doctors
and psychiatrists, New York state regulators typically review
the case after sentencing to decide whether the doctor should
be punished with a reprimand or even the loss of a medical
license. A spokesman for the state health department said
that no action has begun in Dr. Willis's case, but that it is
likely to be reviewed for medical misconduct.
   The American Psychiatric Association also could reprimand
or suspend the doctor for violations of the profession's code
of ethics. The code says that psychiatrists "should
diligently guard against exploiting information furnished" by
a patient.
   A malpractice suit brought by Ms. Weill against Dr. Willis
is pending.
   ---
   DISPUTE WITH RETIREES resolved in Federated-Allied
bankruptcy case.
   The fight over health benefits had threatened to derail
the reorganization of Federated Department Stores Inc. and
Allied Stores Corp., which filed for bankruptcy-court
protection in January 1990. The companies and the Official
Retirees' Committee have been bickering for more than a year
over medical and dental benefits for nonunion employees who
retired before the bankruptcy filing.
   Under the terms of a settlement submitted to U.S.
Bankruptcy Judge J. Vincent Aug Jr. on Monday, a trust will
be set up to cover the health benefits of some 6,400 retirees
and about 2,500 of their spouses and dependents. The
reorganized company will fund the trust with quarterly
payments that are expected to total about $80 million on a
present-value basis. Retirees will also make contributions to
the trust, a so-called voluntary employee benefits
association.
   VEBAs, as they are known, are a common vehicle for
supplying nontaxable benefits to employees. But VEBAs seldom,
if ever, have been used to resolve a benefits dispute under
the bankruptcy code, according to Glen D. Nager, a partner at
the Washington office of Jones, Day, Reavis & Pogue, which
represents the debtors.
   Robert Usadi, a partner at the New York law firm Cahill
Gordon & Reindel, which represents the retirees, said the
plan "gives to representatives of the retirees . . . the
ability to make decisions in the future as to benefits and to
contribution levels independent of what Federated might do in
{its} own interests."
   The companies and retirees have requested that Judge Aug
hold a hearing on the settlement and their lawyers expect him
to approve the trust arrangement.
   ---
   ASBESTOS MAKER wins a round in insurance-coverage case.
   The issue before a U.S. magistrate judge in New York was
whether a company could be insured against lawsuits that it
anticipated when it purchased the insurance policy.
   While the usual rule is that a company can't claim
coverage for losses it was aware of at the time coverage
began, this case involved the more complex issue of whether
anticipated lawsuits constituted such "known losses."
   Magistrate Judge Leonard Bernikow, in deciding that
National Gypsum Co. might be entitled to coverage, found that
the expected lawsuits represented only "known risks," rather
than sure losses. The magistrate judge's recommendation is
subject to approval by a U.S. district judge.
   The finding last week came in an insurance-coverage suit
stemming from cases brought by school districts around the
country in which National Gypsum faces asbestos-related
property damage claims. The school districts, which filed the
suits in the early to mid-1980s, are seeking reimbursement
for the money they spent in encapsulating and removing
asbestos.
   The magistrate judge's recommendation involves a pre-trial
issue and doesn't necessarily mean that the insurance
companies will have to provide National Gypsum with coverage.
But lawyers said it is significant because it attempts to
resolve a growing legal question as to when knowledge of a
risk precludes coverage.
   Lawyers for National Gypsum said that $400 million of
coverage is at stake in this particular insurance dispute.
More than a dozen other asbestos manufacturers face similar
claims.
   (National Gypsum Co. vs. International Insurance Co. et
al., 86 Civ 9671, U.S. District Court, Manhattan)
   ---
   CHARGES DROPPED against former Drexel trader in Milken
case.
   Bruce Newberg, who worked for Michael Milken in Drexel
Bunrham Lambert Inc.'s junk-bond department, had been named
as a defendant in the criminal case against Mr. Milken. Mr.
Milken, former head of the junk-bond department, pleaded
guilty in 1990 to six securities-related felonies.
   The U.S. attorney's office in Manhattan said it dropped
the charges against Mr. Newberg because he already has been
convicted and sentenced to three months in prison on
essentially the same allegations in a case involving
Princeton/Newport L.P. An appeals court reversed some of the
charges against Mr. Newberg in the Princeton/Newport case
last year but affirmed the securities-fraud convictions. Any
further prosecution could have raised double-jeopardy
problems, lawyers said.