Bush's Capital Gains Tax Plan Favors
   The Rich, Congressional Study Finds
   ----
   By Jackie Calmes
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The committee concluded last year that more than 82% of
the tax benefits of the plan Mr. Bush proposed then would go
to those with income exceeding $100,000, and that the average
tax break for Americans earning more than $200,000 would have
been $12,526. The average gain for those making between
$30,000 and $40,000 would have been $208.
   In his State of the Union speech last month, Mr. Bush
emphasized different statistics to pitch his idea. He
asserted that "60% of the people who benefit from lower
capital gains have incomes under $50,000." The few taxpayers
at the top of the income scale, however, would have much
larger capital gains and therefore the lion's share of the
tax break.
   The Joint Committee's finding of a lesser tilt to the
wealthiest Americans in this year's plan comes even though
Mr. Bush's latest proposal would be more generous than last
year's version. The president wants to lower the rate to
15.4% on assets held more than three years; last year, he
proposed a 19.6% rate. The congressional analysts, as part of
a routine economic review, attributed less capital gains to
the highest-income taxpayers, thus accounting for the changed
analysis.
   The technical review also will have consequences for a tax
plan from the House's top tax writer, Ways and Means
Committee Chairman Dan Rostenkowski (D., Ill.). He now is
expected to propose that a new 35% top income-tax rate, which
is aimed at financing a middle-class tax break, apply to
higher-income taxpayers than he had previously suggested.
   Rep. Rostenkowski originally would have applied the new
top rate to individuals with taxable income of at least
$85,000 and to couples filing jointly with income of at least
$145,000. New estimates from the joint committee found that
he could raise enough revenue to pay for his middle-class tax
cut -- $45 billion over six years -- by applying the new tax
to individuals with taxable incomes of $150,000 and higher
and to couples making at least $250,000.
   That could help Mr. Rostenkowski, who has been under
pressure from some Democrats to raise the income threshhold.
They are afraid to vote for a tax increase unless it plainly
hits only the rich.
   The Treasury says that the Joint Committee's analysis of
capital gains taxation is flawed because it ignores
additional taxes that rich people would pay because a lower
capital-gains tax encourages them to sell more assets than
they would otherwise. The Treasury hasn't yet released its
analysis of who would be the biggest winners under the
president's proposal.
   On another point of perennial controversy, the Treasury is
acknowledging that cutting capital gains taxes eventually
would widen the deficit. Last year, the Treasury said that
the president's capital-gains tax cut actually would raise
revenue in each of the following six years. In a
little-noticed change, the Treasury says that Mr. Bush's new,
deeper cut would raise money through 1996 -- primarily
because so many people would sell assets to take advantage of
the lower rate -- but would lose $200 million in 1997. That
admission is bound to fuel criticism from Democrats who say
cutting capital gains taxes would widen the deficit in the
long run.
   Meanwhile, in a calculated gamble, House Democrats
tentatively are planning to put Mr. Bush's entire
economic-stimulus package to a vote later this month, along
with their own alternative. "You could find both bills going
down," said Rep. Ed Jenkins of Georgia, a Democrat on the
Ways and Means Committee.
   Some Democrats fret that any Democratic bill could be in
danger if Rep. Rostenkowski produces a tax-cut package that
includes a tax increase for upper-income people, and if
Republicans counter with one like Mr. Bush's that wouldn't
raise anybody's taxes but would have only disputed or
illusory spending reductions. Democrats say they would cast
the choice as one between honest accounting and Republican
deficit spending. But they grant that enough Democrats could
join Republicans, rather than vote for a tax increase, to
give the GOP the edge.
   For their part, some House Republicans are so disappointed
that Mr. Bush's blueprint doesn't cut taxes more deeply that
they will object if Democrats force a choice simply between
the president's plan and some Democratic alternative.
   Ways and Means Democrats caucused privately yesterday, but
apparently are far from deciding on their package. The panel
will begin voting next Wednesday, and a House vote could
occur in the final week of February. That same week, the
Senate Finance Committee will begin work on a separate bill.
Congress's Democratic leaders are hustling in the face of Mr.
Bush's much-touted March 20 deadline.
   The Democrats are likely to propose, besides a
middle-class tax cut, variations on Mr. Bush's proposals for
business-investment incentives, real-estate "passive loss"
deductions, a capital gains tax cut and liberalized
Individual Retirement Accounts.
   Rep. Rostenkowski, who insists that no tax bill should add
to the deficit, is considering some ideas from Mr. Bush's own
package for raising an additional $11 billion in new revenue
over the next six years. Those provisions would affect tax
treatment of securities, annuities and corporate-owned life
insurance -- all of which have drawn fire from the affected
industries.
   Rep. Jenkins, a longtime proponent of capital gains tax
cuts, proposed at the Ways and Means caucus that Democrats
adopt a plan similar to one espoused by Sen. John Breaux (D.,
La.). It would impose a 35% top rate on upper-income
taxpayers if, after a few years, a capital-gains tax cut is
proven to lose revenues over time. Given the partisan split
over the question of whether the tax cut would raise or lose
revenue, he said, "This gives a way out to both sides."