Technology  Medicine:
   IBM Announces
   Minicomputer Line
   With More Power
   ----
   By Paul B. Carroll
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Mr. Thompson predicted that the whole midrange market will
grow 3% this year, which he said meant that IBM should be
able to do better than the 7% growth it produced last year,
when the market as a whole was flat. The AS/400 line, which
generated $14 billion in revenue for IBM last year, or 22% of
its total, could even return to double-digit growth rates if
the economy picks up, Mr. Thompson said in an interview.
   The new E models, as expected, provide about 30% more
performance than the D models they replace. One model will
contain three processors, giving it 70% more performance than
the two-processor machine that was the top of the line for
the D models. IBM also indicated that it could design
additional processors into high-end machines as soon as it
thought customers were ready to use the additional power.
   IBM was a bit more aggressive on pricing than expected,
cutting prices about 10% if peripheral devices and software
are included in the equation. As expected, the machines will
be available quickly. Most can be purchased early next month.
   The high-end machine will also use 16-megabit memory
chips, making IBM the first to introduce a product using the
next generation of memory chip. That's no surprise, given
that IBM was first to market with the two prior generations.
But it does show that IBM has retained its edge with a
crucial technology, which Japanese companies are generally
considered to dominate.
   The new series of machines comes just 10 months after the
last rollover of the product line. That means IBM, which had
been turning over the line once a year, has managed to speed
up its cycle. IBM also said the early announcement, followed
by quick delivery, should let it avoid the sag in sales that
occurred last spring as customers waited to see what the
April announcement would bring.
   Sam Albert, a consultant in Scarsdale, N.Y., said the
early introduction also shows that IBM is feeling pressure in
the midrange, where it has had the most success in recent
years. He said Digital Equipment Corp. and Hewlett-Packard
Co. had made some aggressive announcements recently, so IBM
needed to retaliate.