Semper Fidelis:
   Yanqui Supporters
   Rally for Castro
   ----
   By David Asman
Fidel is in desperate need of spin control. In better
times, he may have tried hiring a consulting firm for an
image redo. For now, he has enlisted the help of his radical
pals in the U.S. and Europe for whom Cuba is one of the last
places on Earth where citizens still call starry-eyed
foreigners "comrades" -- at least while the secret police are
watching.
   These gringo "Fidelistas" held the first of several "Peace
for Cuba" rallies Saturday, Jan. 25, at the Jacob K. Javits
Center in New York (the second was in San Francisco this past
Saturday). Of course, given the reactionary media, you can't
just come right out and applaud the Revolution. So the
rallies are couched as an appeal to end the U.S. embargo of
Cuba.
   At a pre-conference interview before the first rally,
spokesmen William Kunstler and Ramsey Clark bristle at
questions that focus more on Fidel's dictatorial nature than
on U.S. efforts to undermine the Cuban Revolution. "Why is
the press so one-sided?" cries Mr. Clark. When asked how he
could support an embargo against South Africa but not against
Cuba, Mr. Kunstler becomes furious. "You can't compare South
Africa and Cuba," he fumes. "In South Africa, 90% of the
people can't even travel without a pass card." When reminded
that 100% of Cubans can't travel at all without pass cards,
Mr. Kunstler snarls, "Next question."
   Still, both men are evasive about their support for Fidel.
"Look, I don't like dictatorships anywhere," says Mr.
Kunstler. The seasoned lawyer is too sharp to be backed into
defending the indefensible. Besides, the rally has already
been criticized by the press for being too pro-Fidel. In
fact, 24 hours earlier Mr. Kunstler had to get his friend
Judge Bruce "Turn-'Em-Loose" Wright to issue a last-minute
restraining order prohibiting nervous Javits Center officials
from canceling the event. The officials had feared
overcrowding and a possible confrontation with anti-Castro
protesters.
   Inside the conference hall, the Fidelistas will have none
of this namby-pamby compromising. Tim Wheeler, the affable
editor of the Communist Party U.S.A.'s People's Weekly World
(the Daily World, when coffers were flush), sighs with me at
the unwillingness of conference organizers to come right out
and admit that they are pro-Fidel. Mr. Wheeler writes
frequently for Radio Havana. He laughs when I ask him whether
he's paid in dollars or Cuban pesos. He responds that he's
not paid at all. Which leads me to ask how the Communist
Party U.S.A. is doing these days.
   "Times are tough," answers Mr. Wheeler. "There was a big
split between the pro-Gorbachev Communists and the old guard.
But if you look at the chaos inside the Soviet Union, I think
it's clear now that the Gorbachev faction was wrong." Mr.
Wheeler ascended to the editorship of the People's Weekly
World after the purge of his pro-Gorbachev predecessor. But
the new-wave commies did not go softly into that good night.
According to Mr. Wheeler, the editor left with about $8,000
in computer software (later returned), possibly copied to
start a competing paper.
   Isn't it hard to keep the faith in this fractious
environment, I ask? Mr. Wheeler says he gets his strength
from his father, whom he describes as an unreconstructed
Stalinist. "He started as a speech writer for New York Sen.
Robert Wagner in the '30s and then got a job in Washington.
But he was blacklisted in the '50s."
   Neither Mr. Wheeler nor his father would be disappointed
by the defense of Fidel and his Revolution on display at the
rally. Amid posters from the American Federation of State,
County and Municipal Employees and various socialist parties,
rally coordinator Gabrielle Gemma reminds the 3,000 attendees
that "Our respect for the revolution is enormous."
   Don Rojas, executive editor of the Amsterdam News, a New
York City newspaper, pushes a bit further: "Cuba is accused
of saying yes to independence and no to foreign domination;
of saying yes to socialism and no to capitalism. These are no
crimes. These are virtues]"
   Mr. Rojas passes the baton to the revolutionary priest
from Brazil, Frei Betto, who demands: "You have to give
unconditional support for the Cuban revolution. I am
convinced that socialism is not a past nostalgia; it is the
future]" Red flags are unfurled and the crowd chants: "Long
Live Revolutionary Cuba]"
   Unlike the Fidelistas inside the hall, the 15,000
anti-Castro protesters gathered in the 20-degree weather
outside are mostly Cuban or Cuban-American. Mariano Alvarez,
age 56, came to the U.S. in 1961, two years after Castro came
to power. "I supported Castro at first," says Mr. Alvarez. "I
was a poor worker; what did I have to lose? Well, we lost
everything plus our freedom. Those idiots inside don't
realize this." But it was Mr. Alvarez's 27-year-old son who
persuaded him to come today from their home in Yonkers. "I'd
love to go to Cuba someday," says Mr. Alvarez Jr. And somehow
you can't help thinking that Cuba's future lies more with
this second-generation Cuban-American than with any of the
gringo Fidelistas inside.
   ---
   Mr. Asman is editor of the Journal's Americas column.