FBI Raids Facility
   For `BAT' Weapon
   Of Northrop Corp.
   ----
   By Roy J. Harris Jr.
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
An FBI spokeswoman in Los Angeles said that the bureau
doesn't confirm or deny reports involving search warrants.
Representatives of the U.S. attorney's office couldn't be
reached. A Defense Department spokesman declined to comment.
   Aviation Week magazine reports in this week's issue that
Pentagon and FBI agents involved in the raid had sought
pricing information on the BAT and Northrop's original
proposal for the Army project. The magazine also says that
paper shredders were impounded and locks were placed on file
cabinets.
   Northrop first disclosed the existence of the program,
also said to be called Alpha, in June. At that time, the
company said it had received a $344 million Army contract for
BAT, and was doubling employment on the project to 500. The
Army has said the entire program could cost $2.2 billion,
including development, testing and production.
   Under secret development at Northrop for six years, BAT
was described by the company as a "submunition" containing
bomblets to be carried by either the Northrop-designed
Stealth missile or the Army Tactical Missile. The bomblets
are self-guided, using acoustics and infrared sensors to
find, attack and destroy armored vehicles, possibly deep
behind enemy lines.
   Numerous Northrop programs have been embroiled in
investigations in recent years, leading the company to launch
a campaign to improve its image. A new chief executive
officer, Kent Kresa, was selected two years ago.
   In the past, government investigations have evolved from
complaints filed by employee "whistle-blowers," although the
Northrop spokesman said he wasn't aware of such a complaint
leading to this recent raid.
   In 1990, the company pleaded guilty to falsifying test
results during work on the air-launched cruise missile and
another weapons program. Two U.S. grand juries are continuing
to examine questionable payments made to South Korean
businessmen, allegedly to influence Korea's decision on
Northrop's F-20 fighter plane. Past inquiries have involved
the company's work on the guidance system for the MX missile,
and Northrop's biggest current program, the B-2 Stealth
bomber.