Politics  Policy:
   Three Bush Cabinet Members Bounced
   Numerous Checks During Time in House
   ----
   By Jackie Calmes
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The disclosures follow a House Ethics Committee report
last week that 355 present and former House members wrote bad
checks, some of them hundreds of times. As expected, most of
the lawmakers are Democrats, given their party's large
majority in the House, and Republicans from the president on
down have sought to exploit that fact, even though leading
House Republicans also have been fingered.
   But in the wake of his cabinet officers' admissions, Mr.
Bush's rhetoric notably softened. "It's a matter of
considerable agony for good people on {Capitol} Hill. And
let's get the facts out, and then I think the American people
are very smart. They will be able to make a determination as
to what was wrongdoing and who were simply victims of a
system that obviously has failed everybody."
   Earlier in the day, he told reporters the issue "is going
to be the institution of Congress and whether you need some
change there." Vice President Dan Quayle, who last week
called the bank scandal "a national disgrace," yesterday
tried to stay on the offensive and blamed House Democrats for
their "arrogance of power."
   So did Mr. Cheney. Amid his own confession, he angrily
faulted House Democratic leaders for the bank's slipshod
operations and its failure to notify lawmakers of
insufficient funds. But Mr. Madigan, while also complaining
of being left ignorant of his overdrafts, told a separate
news conference, "I don't see where there is any political
advantage to either party as a result of all this."
   Mr. Cheney said House investigators told him he had
written 25 bad checks and that he himself had identified 21
"problem checks" totaling $10,069 written in the nine months
before he came to the Pentagon in 1989. That period is less
than a quarter of the 39 months -- ended Oct. 3, 1991 --
included in the ethics panel's review.
   Mr. Madigan said he found 49 overdrafts totaling about
$30,000 in the 31 months ended last April -- the same number
that the ethics committee identified, he said. And Mrs.
Martin later confessed in a statement that 16 checks totaling
$5,125 exceeded her balances during two years. Earlier in the
day, a spokesman for the labor secretary had said it was
possible that "she bounced a check or two or three."
   The defense secretary's unusual and emotional public
confession was broadcast live by Cable News Network from the
same Pentagon studio used for daily briefings during the
Persian Gulf War -- illustrating the depth of concern for the
potential political fallout from the scandal. Mr. Cheney, a
Bush intimate and frequent administration spokesman on
international issues, found himself parrying a host of
questions about his family's financial practices.
   He said he was "stunned" to find overdrafts for checks
ranging from $12 to more than $1,900, and noted that funds
were always deposited within a short time to cover all
checks. "There was no desire or intention on my part to take
advantage of the system," Mr. Cheney said. Mr. Madigan, who
said his checks ranged from $13.50 to $8,618.84, echoed that
argument. Mrs. Martin's overdrawn checks ranged from $48.23
to $1,350.
   The vulnerability of the Bush cabinet to the House scandal
reflects the fact that Mr. Bush, himself a former House
member, has often picked his top officials from among House
Republicans.
   Housing Secretary Jack Kemp, Interior Secretary Manuel
Lujan and Veterans Administration Secretary Edward Derwinski
all insist that as far as they know they never overdrew their
accounts. In addition, Patricia Saiki, head of the Small
Business Administration, said her records show no
discrepancy, and the White House said Henson Moore, the
deputy chief of staff, hadn't used his account since 1981.
   ---
   Andy Pasztor contributed to this article.