Salomon Promises Its Bankers a 15% Raise
   ----
   By Michael Siconolfi
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
In the wake of Salomon Brothers' Treasury-auction bidding
scandal, the securities firm's new management has moved
quickly to slash costs. The Salomon Inc. unit has dismissed
scores of highly paid, high-ranking employees and cut the
clout and bonuses of its stock and investment-banking groups
as it returns to its historical strength in bond trading.
   But the moves appear to have had serious consequences,
leading to defections by senior stock analysts, investment
bankers and others. The unusual pay directives for both
investment bankers and stock analysts -- approved after a
series of meetings with Salomon's chief operating officer,
Deryck Maughan -- are aimed at easing the turmoil in
Salomon's ranks.
   A Salomon spokesman declined to comment yesterday on
specific pay plans. But he said the pay guarantees are part
of a "firmwide" plan to set a floor on 1992 compensation; he
said talks of such guarantees started last May, before the
firm's scandal surfaced. "The notion is to give people some
idea of some minimum expectations, done by departments," the
spokesman said.
   Like investment bankers at other Wall Street firms,
Salomon's bankers get the bulk of their pay from a bonus pool
whose size is determined by the firm at the end of each year.
It is highly unusual for a Wall Street investment bank to
guarantee payouts for entire groups of employees before
profits are determined.
   Under the new Salomon pay plan, the firm's investment
banking department will be divided into five sectors: real
estate, Europe, Asia, U.S. corporate finance and financial
institutions. Each will have its own pay pool.
   If a sector exceeds its revenue targets, all bankers will
get more money, with managing directors -- who hold a senior
post -- reaping the most benefit. If the targets aren't
matched, most bankers will still receive a 15% pay raise --
but managing directors will suffer deep pay cuts.
   "The key thing is if the firm does well, managing
directors in particular can make a lot of money," said a
senior Salomon executive. "If the revenue isn't there, the
risk is substantially on those people."
   Salomon's pay directive could be a gamble, some analysts
say. They caution that guaranteeing pay can be a recipe for
trouble on Wall Street, which is noted for its volatile
earnings. And now with pay guarantees set for Salomon's
stock-research and investment banking departments, other
Salomon departments are vying for similar deals, people
familiar with the firm said.
   Salomon officials assert that the new plan doesn't
conflict with the highly publicized "pay-for-performance"
stance of Salomon's interim chairman, Warren Buffett. That's
because the pay of individual investment bankers still will
be based on performance within the guaranteed pay pool.
   Some Salomon investment bankers already are grousing about
the new pay plan. With their 1991 bonuses already down an
average of 25% from a year earlier, these bankers say their
1992 compensation still could fall short of what they were
paid in 1990, despite the planned raise. In 1990, 106 Salomon
employees made $1 million or more each, including many
investment bankers.
   "A 15% raise is pretty good only if you're paid
competitively to start with," one Salomon investment banker
said.
   But senior Salomon executives stress that the revenue
targets are modest, and will be exceeded if the stock and
bond underwriting market stays hot. "We think these are
achievable goals," said a senior Salomon executive. At the
very least, he asserted, "There's no question about the
firm's commitment to {investment} banking."
   The plan comes as Salomon's investment banking group
mounts a comeback in Wall Street's underwriting race. In
January, Salomon climbed to No. 3 in the rankings for
underwriting new stocks and bonds, with an 11.4% market
share, after slipping to No. 7 for all of 1991, with a 7.5%
market share, according to IDD Information Services Inc. en