REVIEW  OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   Showdown in Sarajevo
Bosnia-Hercegovina, a poor, mountainous region of 4.2
million inhabitants, is a microcosm of what was formerly
Yugoslavia. There is no such thing as a Bosnian -- in either
nationality or language. Muslim Slavs, who converted to Islam
during 400 years of Ottoman rule, account for about 44% of
the population. Orthodox Serbs make up 31% and Roman Catholic
Croats 17% of the republic.
   Long before it became part of the Yugoslav federation in
1918, the region was the center of fierce tugs of war between
the competing AustroHungarian and Ottoman empires, and the
Roman Catholic and the Byzantine churches.
   After the Croatian and Slovenian declarations of
independence in June 1991 that set off civil war,
Bosnia-Hercegovina maintained a feeble balance of terror,
kept peaceful by the belief that hostilities there would be
even harder to control than in Croatia. Radovan Karadzic, the
main Serbian leader in Bosnia, said that if all-out war
should erupt, "Northern Ireland would be like a holiday camp
compared to Bosnia."
   Now that independence has been voted, many Bosnian Serbs
want to join with Serbia, as proposed by Mr. Milosevic.
Croatian nationalists want to become part of a greater
Croatia (there were reports for years that Serbia and Croatia
planned to divvy up the republic). But the majority of
Muslims and Croats want an independent Bosnia; and Muslims
reject any arrangement that would place their enclaves under
Serbian rule.
   Sarajevo, which was to be the headquarters for the U.N.
observer mission, is a powder keg. Over the past six months
there have been reports of a Croatian paramilitary buildup in
Bosnia as well as reports that Libya and Iran may help arm
Bosnia's Muslims. With Yugoslav army troops still mobilized,
a particularly bloody conflict is possible.
   However, this war would be different from the one in
Croatia. Ethnic groups in Bosnia are dispersed, so fighting
likely would be street against street. On the other hand,
frequent inter-ethnic marriages complicate loyalties and
explain why the radical Serbian nationalism that prevails in
Croatia is more diluted in Bosnia.
   Yet, Mr. Milosevic is again under the gun. Bowing to
Western pressure and domestic discontent last week, he
declared the civil war ended and even implied he might
rescind his territorial claims to Serbian enclaves in
Croatia. Now that Bosnia-Hercegovina has erupted, he has yet
another choice to make.
   Endless strife in this corner of Europe is not in the
West's interests. It is incumbent on its leaders once again
to help Mr. Milosevic make his decision, by explaining more
forcefully than the last time that yet another military
adventure would be unacceptable. If 60% of the people of
Bosnia-Hercegovina want independence, that surely is a large
enough majority in this ethnically complex country for the
West to support.