Law -- Legal Beat:
   Municipalities May Be Held Liable
   For Superfund Costs, Court Rules
   ----
   By Jonathan M. Moses and Junda Woo
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
The appeals court ruling is the highest judicial
interpretation yet of the issue of municipal responsibility
for cleanup costs. While it has legal effect only in New
York, Connecticut and Vermont, its influence is expected to
be broad. The Environmental Protection Agency said that
municipalities are potentially liable at 25% of its 1,200
priority cleanup sites. It is estimated that the entire
Superfund cleanup bill may reach $500 billion.
   Typically, larger corporations and their insurance
companies have been the first called on to pay Superfund
cleanup costs, but an increasing number of these businesses
are now suing local governments demanding that they
contribute also, since landfills are often used for household
as well as industrial waste.
   The case decided yesterday involved two landfills in
Connecticut that will cost $47.9 million to clean up. A group
of companies that used the sites sued more than 20
municipalities, demanding that they pay a share of the
cleanup bill.
   The municipalities argued that they shouldn't have to pay
since they used the landfills to dump only household garbage,
even if that waste included pollutants such as detergent and
insecticide. The appeals court rejected that argument, ruling
that the presence of any pollutant is enough to qualify under
Superfund.
   William A. Butler, the lead lawyer representing the
municipalities, said the case will now go back to the
district court for a determination of how to allocate the
cleanup costs. Mr. Butler said he expects the liability of
municipalities to be low since most their garbage was the
least hazardous. But that, too, may be a hotly contested
issue, because the companies may argue that liability should
be assigned according to the volume of waste dumped in the
landfill.
   Whatever the final result of the case, the decision will
likely fan the already contentious debate over what
Superfund, or the Comprehensive Environmental Response,
Compensation and Liability Act, says about local governments.
   "It will drive the fight in Congress to get municipalities
special status under Superfund," Stanley M. Spracker, an
environmental lawyer in the Washington office of Weil,
Gotshal  Manges, said of the decision.
   Several bills are already pending in Congress to grant
municipalities special status. A spokeswoman for EPA
Administrator William Reilly said he will issue a policy
statement within the next few weeks on how the municipal
share of cleanup costs should be allocated.
   ---
   APPEALS COURT CLARIFIES evidence standard in
discrimination cases.
   The ruling by a three-judge panel of the U.S. Second
Circuit Court of Appeals in New York came in an age
discrimination case against Bethlehem Steel Corp., Bethlehem,
Pa.
   While it has legal effect only in New York, Connecticut
and Vermont, lawyers said it was one of the first decisions
to clarify what judges should tell juries in "mixed-motive"
discrimination cases. In such cases, employees allege that
they were fired for discriminatory reasons and employers
counter that there were genuine business reasons for the
firings.
   The U.S. Supreme Court ruled in 1989 that judges should
instruct jurors that if they believe there is evidence of
discrimination, it becomes the company's burden to prove it
fired an employee for legitimate business reasons.
   But since that ruling, some lower courts have interpreted
the Supreme Court as requiring the jury to consider only
"direct evidence" -- such as actual discriminatory statements
-- before the burden shifts to the company. In its ruling,
the appeals court in New York said the judge can instruct the
jury to consider both direct and circumstantial evidence, the
latter being evidence that requires the jury to draw an
inference.
   "What is required is simply that the plaintiff submit
enough evidence that, if believed, could reasonably allow a
jury to conclude that the adverse employment consequences
were `because of' an impermissible factor," the court wrote.
   In ruling against Bethlehem, the court upheld a $995,000
judgment in favor of Alvin Joel Tyler, a former salesman who
alleged that he was fired by the company in 1986 because of
his age. He was 48 years old at the time.
   "It's very significant," said Judith Vladeck, a New York
lawyer who specializes in discrimination cases. "The whole
issue of what is direct evidence keeps coming up."
   Thomas Gill, the lawyer representing Mr. Tyler, called the
ruling "the clearest interpretation yet" of what evidence is
required in age discrimination cases.
   A spokesman for Bethlehem Steel said he hadn't seen the
decision and couldn't comment.
   (Tyler vs. Bethlehem Steel, U.S. Court of Appeals, New
York, 91-7908, 91-7918.)
   ---
   INSURER LOSES $1,125,000 wrongful-termination verdict.
   A California state court jury in San Francisco found that
Equitable Life Assurance Society of the U.S. should pay 15
years in lost wages to a former district manager. The award
is one of largest ever in California for economic loss in a
wrongful-termination case.
   The case involved a 20-year Equitable employee fired in
1990. Economic-loss awards generally make up for several
years of back pay. In the Equitable case, however, the jury
awarded enough pay to cover the years between the employee's
firing and his retirement, had he stayed at the company.
   "This is of serious concern to the defense bar," said
Kathy D. Steele, a labor lawyer at the San Francisco law firm
Fox  Grove, which was not involved in the case. In the past,
she said, million-dollar verdicts in such cases have included
awards for emotional distress or punitive damages. But the
California Supreme Court in 1989 eliminated punitive damages
in most discharge cases.
   An attorney for New York-based Equitable, Jeffrey Wohl,
said the company will file post-trial motions objecting to
the verdict. "Equitable strongly disputes that there's any
basis for this type of damages," he said.