International:
   World Wire
   ----
   Compiled by Richard L. Holman
Though China ended a three-year austerity program last
year, it will continue a tight rein on its credit policy and
money supply to guard against inflation and "ensure steady
but restrained economic development," the central bank chief
said.
   Beijing will strictly limit lending, Li Guixian, the
People's Bank of China governor, told senior Chinese bankers
from across the country. He said agriculture would get
priority for bank loans.
   Tight credit was one of the main factors in the austerity
drive China began in late 1988 to cool the economy and reduce
inflation. The retrenchment period ended last year, but China
wants to make sure the economy doesn't heat up again. As a
result of the short leash on foreign exchange and foreign
loans, Beijing said its foreign-exchange reserves at the end
of last year rose 54% to $39.95 billion from a year earlier.
   Mr. Li also said that China intends to expand its
financial markets, that more enterprises will be allowed to
issue securities this year, and that the government will
continue to back pilot efforts in trading at the country's
three stock markets.
                                                                                                       

   MOSCOW TRADE BANK SHUT
                                                                                                       

   The Vneshekonombank, the former Soviet Union's only
financial organization entitled to trade abroad, has been
closed indefinitely. The foreign trade bank posted a notice
that its operations were transferred to the Bank of Russia,
which denied this. Vneshekonombank was the only institution
where foreign organizations and individuals could open
accounts, and now their funds are in limbo. Meanwhile, the
central bank plans to issue checkbooks to Russians next month
for use in place of cash because of the worsening ruble
shortage.
                                                                                                       

   CANADA LISTS HOT AND COLD JOBS
                                                                                                       

   Ottawa has revised the list of needed job skills that
Canada uses in grading immigration applicants. Bakers,
physiotherapists and computer-software programmers figure
high on the list. Also in demand: blacksmiths, die setters
and powerhammer operators. Among the least desired: civil
engineers, grain-elevator managers, animal skinners,
pollution-control technicians, flying instructors,
economists, psychologists, public relations agents and
employment recruiters.
                                                                                                       

   KUWAIT EASES UP ON THE PRESS
                                                                                                       

   Kuwait lifted press censorship imposed by the government
five years ago. Officials say the step means the emirate's
local newspapers and magazines would be expected to continue
censoring sensitive material at their own discretion. There
has been no censorship on the foreign press in Kuwait since
the emirate was liberated from Iraqi occupation at the end of
February 1991.
                                                                                                       

   MONGOLIA'S ECONOMIC WOES
                                                                                                       

   Mongolia's two-year struggle to shift to a market-driven
system from central planning deepened its economic problems
last year. Ulan Bator, which at the end of 1990 characterized
its economy as being in "a severe crisis," said the situation
had worsened in 1991, as revenue fell, exports and imports
plunged, the trade deficit grew and stores were empty.
Unemployment, officially 6%, is probably closer to 10%, as
not all the jobless have registered. The central bank
estimated last year's inflation rate at 100%.
                                                                                                       

   SWISS TO VOTE ON IMF, TAX
                                                                                                       

   Switzerland's plans to join international lending and
development agencies and to cut taxes on securities
transactions will be put before the country's voters.
Opponents of the proposals gathered enough signatures to
force referendums on both issues. Bern has applied to join
the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank, which can
impose tough lending conditions. And Parliament last October
voted to reduce the stamp tax, or securities levy, which
opponents assert amounts to a gift to banks and speculators.
                                                                                                       

   IMF SETBACK FOR MANILA
                                                                                                       

   The International Monetary Fund withheld its approval of
the Philippine government's economic performance,
jeopardizing funding credits, loans and the country's
economic growth.
   The IMF has stuck to a 3.4 billion peso ($130.5 million)
target for the country's 1992 budget deficit. Manila,
meanwhile, has set a 13.8 billion peso deficit target, citing
the need for increased spending following the destructive
eruption of Mount Pinatubo. The IMF also is insisting that
the Philippines pass four revenue-raising measures favored by
the agency and that it increase electrical rates. But with
the approach of May elections, many politicians are opposing
new taxes and higher charges for electricity.
   Failure to win IMF approval will cost Manila about $400
million in IMF credits. It also could result in delaying
about $5 billion in loans and debt relief agreements from
foreign creditors.
   Among credits in jeopardy is a multimillion-dollar loan to
finance the expansion of the Phillipines' strained
power-generating capacity, which has already hurt business
badly.
                                                                                                       

   POSTSCRIPTS . . .
                                                                                                       

   Aeroflot, the former Soviet Union's national airline,
raised international fares 30-fold, payable in rubles or hard
currency -- allowing discounts -- or a combination of the
two. . . . The Japanese prime minister's office told NHK
Television that it would bar live broadcasts of banquets at
the leader's official residence. The move followed the
network's unauthorized broadcast of President Bush's collapse
at a banquet last week, when only speeches were to have been
shown.