Heard on the Street:
   Gambling-Equipment Stocks' Winning Streak
   Has Some Saying Now Is Time To Cash Out
   ----
   By Linda Sandler and Pauline Yoshihashi
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
In just a few months, IGT, WMS and Bally Gaming, spun off
from its troubled parent in November, have doubled or better.
Bally Gaming fell 1 1/4 to 19 1/4 Friday after reporting 1991
profit of 48 cents a share, but still sells at 40 times that
profit. IGT, the blue-chip slot-machine stock, has sprung
from a 52-week low of 10 3/4 to 59 Friday, or 46 times its
profit in the latest 12 months, making it nearly twice as
expensive as the average stock.
   All gambling-equipment stocks may have to "take a breather
until reality catches up with expectations," says Oppenheimer
analyst Steven Eisenberg. But for patient investors who're
"looking out two or three years," he says, IGT and WMS, best
known for pinball and video games, "still feel like big
winners." Video Lottery Technologies' stock stalled last year
after the company disappointed investors and fewer analysts
now tout it. Bally Gaming, which once "owned" Las Vegas's
slot-machine market, "lost it to IGT and will never catch up
again," says New York money manager Martin Sosnoff of
Atalanta/Sosnoff Associates.
   World-wide, only about 344,000 slot machines and video
lottery terminals have been installed. The number could be
925,000 by 1996, says Montgomery Securities' analyst William
Fellows, as more hard-up governments follow South Dakota,
Iowa and others and legalize gambling.
   But any hint of corruption in other states could slow the
already arduous legislative process in the U.S., investors
warn. Native Americans must fight the states before they can
build casinos. Some companies might lose contracts; closely
held Premier Technology now is contesting in court the
cancellation of its contract to supply Oregon with video
lottery terminals. Japan's closely held Universal
Distributing is strong in the U.S., and more competitors
could emerge.
   Recently, WMS Chairman Louis Nicastro sold 35% of his WMS
shares at prices as high as 39 1/2 on the day before and the
day after WMS executives made bullish speeches at the annual
meeting. Mr. Nicastro says, "I have no apologies for selling
the stock" when the company's future looks bright. Analysts
warn that Bally Manufacturing's financial troubles might
force it to sell its big Bally Gaming stake.
   Good machines count. An Oregon interoffice memo in
December shows Video Lottery Technologies' machines were
rated 95.40 among bidders for Oregon's video lottery
contract, and IGT's, 93.81. WMS, a newcomer to the market,
got a lower 80.86 grade, though Oregon factored in existing
business relationships. Oregon will lease -- not buy --
machines, so suppliers get less money up front.
   Big, experienced IGT, with 70% or more of Las Vegas's
market for slot machines and a big stake in video lottery
terminals, is popular with professional money managers. But
Kenneth Heebner of Capital Growth Management in Boston, who
has doubled his money in IGT, likes it first for the business
he can count on. With three new casinos opening in Las Vegas
in 1993 and 1994, he says, "this is a balloon payment" for
IGT. Casinos on riverboats and Native Americans' lands and
video lotteries, he says, represent "annuities of
indeterminate size" for IGT and others.
   IGT's Thomas Baker, chief financial officer, thinks
"Indian casinos may develop faster" than video lottery
terminals. Legal slot machines in Indian casinos could
multiply tenfold to 50,000 in two or three years, he says.
Atalanta/Sosnoff's Mr. Sosnoff thinks IGT could earn enough
to put its price-earnings multiple at 20 in a year's time,
and longer-run profit could grow at 25% a year.
   IGT, which shipped 30,000 machines world-wide last year,
soon will be able to make 87,000 machines a year in North
America, Mr. Baker says. WMS says it could work three shifts
and make 100,000 video lottery terminals a year, in addition
to its coin-op games. Video Lottery Technologies is smaller.
   Slot-machine fever is so hot that any mention of a new
gambling venture can push a stock up. Tiny, newly public and
expensive Grand Casinos, with first-quarter profit of
$906,197 from its sole business of managing Indian casinos,
briefly ran higher recently because of touts and publicity
about Connecticut's new Indian casino -- with which Grand
Casinos has no connection. Casino-operator Mirage Resorts'
stock recently ran up several points after it said it had
signed agreements with Native American tribes in Kansas and
Washington state to design and manage proposed casinos. But
Mirage Chairman Stephen Wynn says Native American gambling's
biggest impact really will be to propel more states into
casino-style gambling.
   Hilton Hotels is designing a riverboat for New Orleans,
but isn't wedded to the project; it would make more money
from a casino-hotel if Louisiana approved landbased gambling.
Hilton gets a vote from investors looking for a turnaround
and a cheaper long-term gambling play.
   Says Oppenheimer's Mr. Eisenberg: "We don't know yet if
this is an evolving or an exploding industry."