Winter Olympics 1992 -- On the Games:
   Olympic Hockey Skates Rings Around NHL
   ----
   By Frederick C. Klein
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
A second is that one can write about it for an American
audience without having first to explain it. I mean, you all
understand hockey, don't you? It's that game where, in its
familiar professional version, players skate around carrying
curved-ended sticks, which they use to bang one another and,
occasionally, a puck.
   Third, and most important for the nonce, is that there's a
heckuva Olympic hockey tournament going on in the 6,000-seat
local arena whose chalet-like exterior blends into the
architecure of this ski retreat. With the eight-team medal
round about to begin, no less than six clubs -- including the
upstart Americans -- have a solid chance at a medal, and the
remaining two, traditional hockey non-powers France and
Germany, are regarded as something more than pate de foie
gras.
   "I think there is no clear favorite, and no outsiders,"
said Igor Dimitriev, assistant coach of the team from the
Commonwealth of Independent States, after its 5-4 victory
over Canada on Sunday. He added: "I think this is very
unusual."
   It takes little historical perspective to recognize the
truth of that remark. You'll recall that only a short time
ago, the CIS made up the bulk of a country called the Soviet
Union, whose national color was red. And when most of the
world's sporting cognoscenti spoke of the Big Red Machine,
they meant the hockey minions of that land, not the
baseballers from Cincinnati.
   The Soviets made their Winter Olympic debut at the 1956
Games, and immediately made hockey their own. In the nine
quadrenniums from then to this one, they won seven gold
medals in the sport, posted a 53-5-2 record, and outscored
foes almost four to one. The two times they did not win, in
1960 and 1980, the U.S. did, and it was regarded as
miraculous.
   But that was then and this is now, and now the better
hockey ex-Sovs behave like better hockey players everywhere.
That is to say they play for pay in our National Hockey
League, and let the dental work be damned. No less than 18
Russians, etc., now ply their trade in the NHL, including
Sergei Makarov and Alexander Mogilny of the 1988 gold
medalists.
   CIS coaches (a.k.a. the United Team) bemoan the
prospective loss of their younger players more than that of
the above vets, and wonder aloud about the future of the
sport in their economically pinched maybe-commonwealth.
Things are so bad that reports circulate about Japanese
interests wanting to underwrite (i.e., buy) the entire
professional game in the CIS in return for TV rights. Will
hockey go over in Hiroshima?
   In the meantime, though, any tears for CIS Olympic hopes
are premature; however many players have wandered, there are
plenty left in the big, frosty expanse back home. The team
enters the medal round second in its tightly contested
bracket behind Canada, which it beat, and ahead of
Czechoslovakia, to whom it lost, 4-3, in a crackling,
early-week match. Each has a 4-1 won-lost mark; places were
decided by comparative scores in head-to-head action.
   The ex-Sovs are young (average age 23) but explosive,
especially on a power play that seems to have the puck on a
string. They outshot the Canadians 52-19, and might have won
9-4 or so and if not for some heroic work by Sean Burke, the
big Canadian goalie. On the other hand, the United Team
players tend to overcommit themselves offensively, and got
burned therefrom for the goals that made the game close.
   "We are inexperienced -- not stable," said Mr. Dimitriev,
shaking his head. That was never said about the Sovs.
   The class of the other bracket has been the reigning world
champion Swedes and -- surprise] -- the U.S. They hardly
could be more different. The Swedes are the tourney's
graybeards, featuring the likes of Borje Salming, 40, and
thirty-something Hakan Loob, Bengt Gustafsson and Mats
Naslund. They're ex-NHL standouts, returned home for reasons
of patriotism and rest.
   "In the NHL, you play 80 games, then 20 more (in the
playoffs,)" notes Mr. Gustafsson, who had a nine-year stint
with the Washington Capitals. "There's no way to live a
normal life."
   The U.S., by contrast, is full of young guys who'd love to
sample the misery Mr. Gustafsson rejects. Only two Yanks --
forward Tim Sweeney and defenseman Moe Mantha -- have had
more than a cup of coffee in the NHL. All would like to be
asked to dinner.
   This is a team that came here pretty much sans medal
expectations in the popular mind, the result of getting
whacked around by NHL clubs in its pre-Games tour. It also
lacked the individual stars of some previous Olympic squads.
   But the rugged schedule was a result of Team US's 1988
pre-Olympic experience, in which it beat up on college teams
only to be beaten upon at Calgary, and according to coach
Dave Peterson it has stood his gang in good stead. While
stars might be lacking, he says, team depth has been a plus.
   So, too, has "hot" goaltending, in the person of Ray
LeBlanc, a career minor-leaguer, and a quality Mr. Peterson
described as opportunism after the team's 4-1 win over tough
Finland on Thursday, a game in which it was outshot. One
might substitute the work "luck," but that's good, too.
   Other playoff teams have much to offer, in case CBS lets
you see them. Besides Mr. Burke, Canada has Eric Lindros, the
18-year-old phenom who has angered the entire province of
Quebec by refusing to sign with the local Nordiques after
they picked him in the most recent NHL draft. Finland has
Teemu Selanne, a 21-year-old forward who handles the puck as
well as anyone on the globe. Czech Petr Rosol, stumpy and
long-haired, has a terrific shot.
   And then there's the international style of play, which
features skating, passing, shooting and checking instead of
NHL-style brawling. Harry Sinden, boss of that league's
Boston Bruins, is here, and was overheard calling the United
Team-Czech game the best he'd seen in 10 years. Would that
he'd convince his colleagues]