Winter Olympics 1992:
   Television Highlights
   ----
   By Kevin Goldman
Canada's three-time world champion Kurt Browning is the
favorite as the men's figure skating begins tonight on CBS,
but U.S. contenders Christopher Bowman, 24, from Los Angeles
and Todd Eldredge, 20, from San Francisco will be in the
medal chase. Other highlights will include the entertaining
new Olympic sport freestyle skiing.
                                                                                                       

   A Large Audience
   CBS continues to score in A.C. Nielsen Co. ratings. On
Tuesday, it attracted 23.5% of U.S. homes with TV sets,
according to preliminary figures. ABC was second with 16.4%
and NBC lagged behind with 10.9%.
   The Games also are good news for TNT, the first cable
network to broadcast portions of the Olympics: On Monday, TNT
received 2.1%; normally it gets a 0.8%.
                                                                                                       

   Kudos for Hamilton
                                                                                                       

   Of all the CBS people broadcasting from the Games, kudos
must go to figure-skating analyst Scott Hamilton. He is
well-prepared and informative. His pairing with Verne
Lundquist is a wise one.
   What we could do without are the endless set-up pieces
before a sport is broadcast. Did we really need a piece over
five minutes in length from Charles Kuralt about mothers of
athletes who sit near one another in the stands?
   ---
                Thursday, February 13
                                                                                                       

                        7-9 a.m.
                                                                                                       

                           CBS
                                                                                                       

   -- Hockey live (Italy vs. Pol.)
   -- Speed skating live (men's 5,000 m.)
   -- Cross-country skiing live (women's 5 km.)
   -- Alpine skiing live (women's slalom)
                                                                                                       

                        1-6 p.m.
                                                                                                       

                         TNT
                                                                                                       

   -- Alpine skiing (women's combined slalom)
   -- Figure skating (men's original program)
   -- Hockey (U.S. vs. Fin.)
   -- Speed skating (men's 5,000 m.)
   -- Freestyle skiing (men's and women's moguls, semi-
   finals, finals)
                                                                                                       

                        8-11 p.m.
                                                                                                       

                          CBS
                                                                                                       

   -- Figure skating (men's original program)
   -- Alpine skiing (women's slalom combined)
   -- Freestyle skiing (men's and women's moguls, finals)
   -- Hockey (U.S. vs. Fin.)
                                                                                                       

   All times are Eastern Standard, events are available for
coverage, but plans may change.