Credit Markets:
   Long-Term Bonds Snap Eight-Day Losing Streak
   As Investors Rush to Lock In Yields Nearing 8%
   ----
   By Constance Mitchell and Sharon R. King
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
As the market perked up yesterday, cities, states and
corporations took the opportunity to sell an abundance of new
notes and bonds. Investment bankers on Wall Street estimate
that $2 billion of tax-exempt municipal bonds hit the market,
including a $1.4 billion offering of general obligation bonds
from California. More than $1.8 billion of corporate bonds
were sold.
   Yesterday's bond market rally began shortly after the
Labor Department reported that inflation, as measured by the
consumer price index, rose just 0.1% in January. That was
much milder than many analysts expected. The "core" rate of
inflation, which excludes the highly volatile food and energy
components, rose just 0.3% in January.
   Philip Braverman, senior vice president at DKB Government
Securities Inc., a subsidiary of Japan's Dai-Ichi Kangyo Bank
Ltd., said the combination of low inflation and high yields
made long-term bonds too tempting for investors to ignore.
   With yields on long-term Treasurys nearly 8% while the CPI
for the past 12 months has risen about 2.6%,
inflation-adjusted "real" yields are about 5.4%. "This is
extraordinarily high," said Mr. Braverman, adding that real
yields have never been higher. Typically, he said, real
yields "have ranged between 2.5% and 3.5%. Now, they are
almost two percentage points higher than normal. That was one
element that encouraged investors to buy," bonds, said Mr.
Braverman.
   Dealers still own a large amount of the $36 billion of
notes and bonds sold last week at the Treasury's quarterly
refunding of the federal debt. And they must absorb record
amounts of two-year Treasury notes and five-year Treasury
notes to be sold next week. In order to drum up demand for
the new securities, dealers have been slashing prices in
recent trading sessions to find a level that would attract
buyers. Apparently, investors were holding out for a yield of
8% on the long-term bond.
   Traders also attributed the market's advance yesterday to
widespread rumors that the Federal Reserve was buying
long-term bonds yesterday in an effort to bring down
long-term interest rates.
   But the rumors were unfounded. The Fed does, from time to
time, buy long-term securities for its own account or on
behalf of foreign central banks. Unlike the purchase and sale
of short-term securities, the Fed's transactions in long-term
bonds aren't intended to influence interest rates.
   Prior to the release of the CPI report, bond prices were
posting modest losses during overnight trading in Japan and
London, reacting defensively to news that Republican
presidential candidate Patrick Buchanan had done startlingly
well against President Bush in the New Hampshire presidential
primary.
   As the U.S. session got under way, note and bond prices
briefly moved lower on news that housing starts rose a
sharper-than-expected 5.5% in January.
   But the CPI data outweighed the housing statistics, which
were deemed suspect because all the gains were recorded in
one region -- the Midwest -- which might have been
attributable to mild weather.
   Meanwhile, Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan wasn't
asked about interest rates during his report to a House
Banking subcommittee. But his comments seemed to suggest that
the Fed isn't likely to cut short-term rates soon.
   On today's economic calendar is the release of the
December merchandise trade balance, weekly initial claims for
state unemployment insurance and weekly money supply data.
   Economists polled by the Dow Jones Capital Markets Report
project, on average, that the trade gap widened to $4.6
billion from $3.57 billion in November; that jobless claims
rose 12,000 in the week ended Feb. 8 after falling 13,000 the
prior week; and that the money supply measure known as M2 --
the one most closely watched -- rose $5.6 billion in the week
ended Feb. 10 after rising $10.2 billion the prior week.
   The Treasury's benchmark 30-year bond ended trading
yesterday at a price of 100 29/32, up from 100 4/32 on
Tuesday. Ten-year Treasury notes ended at a price of 100
20/32 to yield 7.39% compared with 100 4/32 to yield 7.46%.
   The Treasury announced yesterday that it will sell a
record $14.25 billion of two-year notes on Tuesday and a
record $9.75 billion of five-year notes on Wednesday. In
when-issued trading, which kicked off immediately after the
announcement, the yield on the two-year notes was quoted at
5.285% and the five-year note was quoted at 6.6575%.
                                                                                                       

   Municipal Bonds
                                                                                                       

   California, the biggest issuer in the municipal market
yesterday, received a mixed reception for its offering of
$1.39 billion of general obligation bonds.
   Bonds offered by California, like other high-tax states,
often sell briskly because they appeal to high-income
investors seeking tax relief. But some investors complained
yesterday that yields on the California's securities were too
low, considering the size of the offering and the fact that
the state's credit rating was downgraded recently by three
rating agencies.
   The California GOs bonds, won in a competitive sale by a
Goldman Sachs  Co. group, were priced to yield from 3.25% in
1993 to 6.50% in 2009 and 2012. The top 6.50% yield on the
offering is at the low end of a 6.50% to 6.60% range expected
prior to the sale.
   "I don't think {yields} were high enough for investors to
jump in and buy," said David MacEwen, a portfolio manager for
Benham Capital Management. The underwriters, he said, "were
pretty bold," and may wind up holding the bonds for a while.
   Late yesterday, underwriters reported an unsold balance of
about $463 million on the offering, which may be the largest
GO sale ever in the municipal market, according to California
officials. A fair amount of the bonds are expected to move
into dealer inventories, several dealers speculated.
   The California general obligation bonds are rated
double-A-1 by Moody's Investors Service Inc., double-A by
Standard  Poor's Corp. and double-A-plus by Fitch Investors
Service Inc.
   California Treasurer Kathleen Brown said proceeds from the
bond sale will be used to finance various construction
projects throughout the state and provide 13,000 jobs.
   "We are building needed schools and roads while at the
same time providing jobs during this ongoing economic
slowdown," Ms. Brown said in a release. "By putting our
dollars to work now -- while interest rates continue to hover
at record lows -- we can be sure these projects are financed
at the lowest cost possible."
   But while California may consider rates relatively low,
other municipal issuers postponed bond offering because
yields are not low enough. By historical measures, yields are
low. But they are much higher than they were about a month
ago. Some issuers apparently have decided to wait and see if
rates decline again before issuing new notes and bonds.
Overall, analysts estimate that as much as $2 billion of new
issuance may be postponed out of the week's anticipated
issuance of more than $5 billion.
   In addition to California, which accounted for the bulk of
the $2.8 billion of new tax-exempt bonds sold yesterday,
Wisconsin sold $450 million of general obligation bonds and
New York City's Municipal Assistance Corp.'s sold $392
million of revenue bonds.
   In trading yesterday, municipal bonds ended mixed.
                                                                                                       

   Corporate  Junk Bonds
                                                                                                       

   About $1.8 billion of new debt was sold in the corporate
market as a decline in interest rates encouraged corporations
to borrow money.
   It was the busiest day of corporate bond sales since Jan.
21, when more than $2 billion of new bonds and notes was
sold.
   Railroad and trucking concern Norfolk Southern Corp.
issued $250 million of 12-year notes yielding 7.945%. Norfolk
Southern is expected to use the proceeds from the sale to pay
down commercial paper as well as to fund its stock repurchase
program.
   In the secondary market for investment-grade corporate
debt, high-grade bonds gained 3/8 to 1/2 point.
   In the high-yield market, most junk bonds, or
speculative-grade bonds with low credit ratings or no credit
ratings at all, were little changed to 1/8 point higher.
                                                                                                       

   Mortgage  Asset-Backed Securities
                                                                                                       

   Prices of mortgage-backed securities ended higher.
   Three real estate mortgage investment conduit issues
totaling $900 million were announced.
   The Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp. announced a $300
million Remic backed by 15-year single-family fixed-rate
mortgages.
   In addition, the Federal National Mortgage Association
announced two $300 million issues. One is backed by 15-year
Fannie Mae securities, the other by Government National
Mortgage Association 9% certificates.
   In trading, Ginnie Mae 8% issues for March delivery were
up 6/32 at 99.
   In other mortgage markets, Freddie Mac Gold 8% issues were
up 8/32 at 98 24/32, and Fannie Mae 8% issues were up 6/32 at
98 18/32.