Arochem Corp.
   Official Charged
   In Major Fraud
   ---
   Federal Prosecutors Charge
   DiSpenza in Connection
   With Firm's Credit Line
   ----
   By Jonathan M. Moses
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Individuals familiar with the case said that more than
$100 million of the money lent to Arochem Corp., Stamford,
Conn., and its sister company, Arochem International Inc.,
Ponce, Puerto Rico, is missing. They said the case is one of
the largest involving criminal bank fraud currently pending
in the country. U.S. Attorney General William P. Barr, in a
statement, called the case an example of "large-scale fraud."
   Mark L. Weyman, an attorney for the two closely held
companies, said they had been unable to account for all the
money lent to the companies. Mr. Weyman, who is currently
negotiating with the Chase syndicate about the banks'
involuntary bankruptcy petition filed against Arochem last
month, said Arochem's biggest assets are two refineries in
Puerto Rico. He said the refineries are not currently
operating, and Arochem is seeking someone to either buy or
lease the refineries.
   Mr. DiSpenza and his lawyer had no comment as they left
the federal courtroom. He was released on $250,000 personal
bond and ordered to surrender his passport.
   The federal government alleges that Mr. DiSpenza filed
false reports to the bank about Arochem's business
operations, inflating its worth by more than $100 million.
Among other things, Mr. DiSpenza and other Arochem officials
allegedly provided the banks with false oil contracts,
receipts and invoices.
   The charges only deepen the disarray at closely held
Arochem, which has also been subject to lengthy litigation
concerning its ownership. A criminal investigation is also
expected to continue into Arochem's suspended president,
William R. Harris. An attorney for Mr. Harris had no comment
on the investigation or on the charges filed against Mr.
DiSpenza.
   Individuals familiar with the Arochem case said the
investigation is expected to continue and that it will focus
on locating the money. One focus of concern is likely to be
Arochem International Ltd., an offshore company alleged to
have been set up by Mr. Harris, a former oil trader for
Salomon Inc.'s Phibro Energy unit, on the Grand Cayman
Islands.
   According to the banks' filing in bankruptcy court, they
had lent out $196 million of the credit line, with the Chase
Manhattan Corp. unit and Bank Brussels Lambert S.A. of
Belgium each owed $71.7 million in principal. Swiss Bank
Corp. is owed $23.9 million, Banque Indosuez of France is
owed $19.1 million and Skopbank of Finland is owed $9.5
million.
   A Chase spokesman said the bank group is cooperating with
the criminal investigation and is "supportive of the
companies' efforts to sell or lease the two refineries."