Your Money Matters -- Investment Dartboard:
   Small-Stock Fan Picks Another Winner
   ----
   By John R. Dorfman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
That ties the record held by James H. Morgan, president of
Interstate/Johnson Lane in Charlotte, N.C. Mr. Steinberg is
chief executive officer of Financial Data Systems Inc., which
publishes Individual Investor magazine and America's
Fastest-Growing Companies. The stock he picked last
September, Michaels Stores Inc., soared 145.6% in six months.
   In 10 tries, Mr. Steinberg has finished first six times
and last four times. Both his home runs and strikeouts have
been memorable. He has picked the contest's three biggest
winners. In addition to Michaels Stores, they are Clearly
Canadian Beverage Corp., up 193.3%, and Dell Computer Corp.,
up 117.2%. But he has also picked the contest's two biggest
losers: Management Co. Entertainment Group, down 96.9%, and
Financial News Network Inc., down 69.9%.
   Overall, Mr. Steinberg's 10 picks have performed
admirably, with an average six-month gain of 22.9%. That
compares with an average six-month gain of 14.8% for all
investment professionals in the 21 contests held under the
current rules.
   By contrast, stocks picked by a heave of darts at the
stock listings have risen an average of only 7%. The Dow
Jones Industrial Average has risen an average of 4.4% per
period.
   Led by Mr. Steinberg, the pros as a group notched a 51.2%
average gain for the past six months, trouncing a randomly
selected Dartboard Portfolio, which rose 11.7%, and the 8.6%
gain of the industrial average. That gives the pros a 13-8
lead over the Dart Brigade.
   Mr. Steinberg's new favorite is Micro Healthsystems Inc.,
a small West Orange, N.J., company that supplies bedside
computers for hospitals. The company's MedTake computers
automate patients' bedside charts and tie into hospitals'
pharmacies, laboratories and intensive-care units.
   "I think it will be a 100% gainer," says Mr. Steinberg.
"Only 3% to 4% of all hospital beds are wired to these
machines. People think as many as 80% over the next four to
five years will be wired."
   What about competition? "I have read that IBM has
something," says Mr. Steinberg. "But I hear that it's lost in
the bureaucracy. By the time IBM gets up and running, Micro
could have effectively marketed this" through its
distribution agreement with Baxter International Inc.
   Mr. Steinberg says he is being conservative in estimating
Micro's earnings at 90 cents a share for the fiscal year that
will begin in April. He estimates 68 cents a share for the
fiscal year that will end this month. Revenue is only about
$20 million, but growing fast, he says. The stock closed
yesterday at $16.50 a share in national over-the-counter
trading.
   Second in the recent contest with a 63.2% gain in BancTec
Inc. was William Nasgovitz, president of Heartland Advisors
Inc. in Milwaukee. His new pick is Dekalb Genetics Corp., a
Dekalb, Ill., producer of seed corn, soybean seed, and
breeding swine and hens.
   Dekalb has greatly stepped up its research and development
spending, Mr. Nasgovitz says. Wall Street, in his view, has
penalized the stock because it thinks earnings will suffer in
the short run. But Mr. Nasgovitz thinks that is misguided,
and predicts that Dekalb will earn $3 a share in the fiscal
year ending in August, up from $2.70 last year. As for fiscal
1993, Mr. Nasgovitz doesn't give a number, but offers a
one-word forecast: "More."
   Dekalb Class B stock closed yesterday at $32 a share in
national over-the-counter trading. Mr. Nasgovitz is hoping
for $90 within three years.
   The returning champs are joined by a pair of new
aspirants. Charles Biderman writes Market Trim Tabs, an
investment newsletter in Santa Rosa, Calif. Art Bonnel of
Reno, Nev., manages the MIM Stock Appreciation Fund for the
MIM family of funds based in Cleveland.
   Mr. Biderman recommends a short sale of SGI International.
Short sellers borrow stock and immediately sell it,
anticipating that the price will fall. Eventually they must
buy shares to replace the borrowed ones -- but, they hope, at
a lower price.
   SGI International is a La Jolla, Calif., development-stage
company with a process for extracting liquids and
low-moisture coal from low-grade, high-moisture coal. The
stock market values the company at close to $400 million, but
Mr. Biderman thinks the company will be fortunate if its
revenue hits $8 million four years from now.
   The stock was quoted at $8.53 bid in over-the-counter
trading yesterday.
   Mr. Bonnel plumps for SPI Pharmaceuticals Inc. of Costa
Mesa, Calif. He likes its "strong foothold in Europe" and
prospects for sales in the former Soviet Union, based on a
joint-venture plant in Yugoslavia. He thinks earnings for the
fiscal year ended in November, which haven't been reported
yet, were about $1.80 a share, nearly double the previous
year's. For fiscal 1992, he predicts $3.50 a share.
   "This company is ripping," he says. SPI closed yesterday
at $30.25 on the American Stock Exchange. Says Mr. Bonnel, "I
really think within the year it can go to $45."
   Here is the Dartboard Portfolio the pros will compete
against for the coming six months: Ivax Corp., Justin
Industries Inc., Mexico Fund and Republic Savings Financial
Corp.
   ---
           Contestants for The Coming Six Months
                                                                                                       

   Jonathan Steinberg, Financial Data Systems Inc.
   BUY: Micro Healthsystems Inc. (MCHC)
                                                                                                       

   Charles Bidderman, Market Trim Tabs
   SELL SHORT: SGI International (SGII)
                                                                                                       

   William Nasgovitz, Heartland Advisors Inc.
   BUY: Dekalb Genetics Corp. (SEEDB)
                                                                                                       

   Art Bonnel, MIM Stock Appreciation Fund
   BUY: SPI Pharmaceuticals Inc. (SPI)
                                                                                                       

           Experts Vs. Darts The Past Six Months
                                                                                                       

                                               PERFORMANCE*
 EXPERT       AFFILIATION      RECOMMENDATION 9/5/91-2/28/92
                                                                                                       

 Jonathan     Financial Data    BUY: Michaels    +145.6%
  Steinberg   Systems Inc.      Stores Inc.
                                                                                                       

 William      Heartland         BUY: BancTec     + 63.2
  Nasgovitz   Advisors Inc.     Inc.
                                                                                                       

 George       Trevor Stewart    BUY: Gannett Co. +  3.7
  Jacobson    Burton  Jacobson
                                                                                                       

 Chris        Colonial Fund     BUY: Conner      -  7.7
  Bertelsen                     Peripherals Inc.
                                                                                                       

 Experts as a group                              + 51.2
 Dartboard Portfolio**                           + 11.7
 Dow Jones Industrial Average                    +  8.6
                                                                                                       

   *Capital gain or loss only
   **Four stocks picked by throw of darts: Farm  Home
Financial Corp., up 49.2%; Home Nutritional Services Inc., up
24.4%; NCH Corp., up 1.3%; Integral Systems Inc., down 28.3%.