Jack White & Co. Slashing Commissions
   In a Shift to Ranks of Deep Discounters
   ----
   By Karen Slater
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Jack White, president and owner of the San Diego firm,
said the planned Feb. 1 commission cut is a defensive move
"to maintain our position in the market rather than to
project growth." In 1991, a strong year for the stock market,
Jack White's basic stock-commission revenue rose only 5% to
10%, he said.
   "I think the deep discounters are getting more and more of
the business," Mr. White said in a telephone interview
Friday. "I want to re-ignite the growth in that section of
our business, and it is strictly price competitive."
   Total revenue of the White firm were up 30% last year, Mr.
White said, reflecting heavy trading volume in no-load mutual
funds. Still, the pressure the firm has felt in its basic
stock business may reflect some broader changes taking place
in the discount end of the brokerage business.
   A recent survey by Mercer Inc., a New York firm that
monitors discount brokers, found the price gap widening
between the deep discounters and the rest of the brokerage
industry. Indeed, some deep discounters are charging lower
commissions than reported in Mercer's first survey in 1983,
Mercer president Mark Coler said.
   Last year appears to have produced strong revenue gains at
both ends of the discount brokerage spectrum. Big discounter
Quick & Reilly Group Inc., for instance, saw its commissions
rise 40% in the nine months ended in November. Kennedy, Cabot
& Co., a Beverly Hills, Calif., deep discounter with which
Jack White competes, says its 1991 revenue rose about 25%.
   But "the guys in the middle may be feeling somewhat
squeezed," says Mercer's Mr. Coler.
   That thought is echoed by Leslie Quick III, president of
Quick & Reilly, which is one of the Big Three discount
brokers, along with Schwab and Fidelity Brokerage Services.
"I don't know if there is going to be any middle ground"
between the Big Three and the deep discounters, Mr. Quick
said.
   Mr. Coler of Mercer says Jack White's current commissions
are lower than those of the Big Three but higher than the
average discounter. He says the planned rate reduction would
clearly make the firm a deep discounter, placing it among the
10 least expensive firms on some selected stock trades.
   Under Jack White's planned new commission schedule,
transactions involving fewer than 2,000 shares will cost a
fixed $33 plus three cents a share. For trades of 2,000 or
more shares, the charge will be $33 plus two cents a share.
   Mr. Coler of Mercer said a typical trade at a discount
brokerage firm might be for 300 shares at $40. Under the new
White schedule, the commission would be $42, which would have
ranked among the 10 lowest charges for that trade in the
recent Mercer survey. That compares with a commission of $94
on the current White schedule, and more than $250 at a
typical full-service broker.