The ECU Could Stabilize Eastern Currencies
   ----
   By George Selgin
The strategy of the republics is regrettable for at least
two reasons. First, it is doubtful that the proposed new
central banks will command the public confidence necessary to
launch new paper currencies that are substantially better
than the decrepit Soviet ruble. Moreover, there is a grave
danger that the new institutions will employ their currency
printing presses to relieve the immense fiscal burdens of
their governments instead of demonstrating the restraint
essential to monetary stability.
   Second, a superior strategy for currency reform is readily
available: Members of the new Commonwealth of Independent
States could take part in the European Monetary Union, which
would allow them to enjoy all the benefits of Europe's
relatively stable money without having to bear any of the
overhead costs. Best of all, this alternative plan can be
pursued unilaterally by any of the republics, without any
special cooperation from the EC.
   This alternative involves setting up "currency boards" in
the republics that, unlike a central bank, would have no
discretionary powers over the money supply. Traditionally, it
is simply an arrangement for issuing domestic currency on the
basis of 100% reserves of low-risk assets that are
denominated in an established foreign currency.
(Currency-board arrangements were once common in Africa and
Southeast Asia, where they served to link British colonial
currencies to the pound sterling.)
   During the Russian civil war northern Russia also had a
currency board, which issued a special ruble linked to the
pound. Today, arrangements more or less like currency boards
function well in Singapore and Hong Kong. Of course, these
arrangements involve a sacrifice of monetary independence.
But the experiences of other nations -- including those of
Western Europe -- suggest that such independence is, after
all, a dubious blessing.
   To participate in the EMU, and even get a head start on
the EC, a reforming republic would merely have to set up a
currency board based on the ECU. The board would be
responsible for issuing a domestic currency denominated in
ECUs that are fully backed -- except perhaps for a modest
unbacked or "fiduciary" issue of permanently fixed amount --
by low-risk, interest-earning ECU-denominated assets.
   Part of the initial ECU assets of the board could be
supplied through an international low- or zero-interest loan
in order to facilitate the initial distribution of the new
currency to the public and financial institutions. This could
take the form of outright gifts, as was done in the postWorld
War II German currency reform, or of voluntary swaps for
rubles at a one-time-only fixed rate of exchange.
   Further issues of currency by the board following this
initial distribution would be made only in exchange for
deposits of ECU assets of market value equal to the desired
quantity of currency. Any business, foreign or domestic,
would be free to acquire currency from the board through this
procedure, perhaps after paying a modest commission in the
case of smaller transactions. The board would also be
responsible for buying back its currency on demand by
redeeming it in ECU assets.
   By this means the domestic currency supply would be
automatically determined by the needs of trade. The reforming
republic would avoid the dangers in having a money supply
subject to the discretion of its own central bank and would
derive the benefits from using Europe's common currency.
Foreign investment would be stimulated by lowered transaction
costs and the absence of exchange-rate risk.
   Such a currency reform would not by itself eliminate the
tremendous "overhang" of hoarded rubles. The board's limited
foreign currency assets would allow it to swap its new
currency for only a fraction of the public's rubles. The
board could, nevertheless, assist in replacing remaining
rubles by authorizing an additional swap of special, unbacked
currency units overstamped as "property certificates."
   These certificates would not be redeemed in ECU assets by
the currency board but would be accepted (along with regular
currency) in payments for state assets sold or auctioned to
the private sector. Once paid to the government, property
certificates would cease to be part of the money supply.
Their sole purpose would be to allow the public an
opportunity to rid itself of unwanted rubles while
accelerating the privatization process.
   True monetary reform must involve banking liberalization
and fiscal reforms in addition to the establishment of a
viable currency. But as far as the currency problem is
concerned, the ECU-backed currency board approach would set
the stage for the kind of capital flows the new commonwealth
republics so desperately need.
   ---
   Mr. Selgin, assistant professor of economics at the
University of Georgia, is an adviser to the Lithuanian
government.