Britain's RTZ
   Has 36% Drop
   In Pretax Profit
   ---
   Kennecott Unit Will Build
   $880 Million Smelter
   To Refine Utah Copper
   ----
   A Wall Street Journal News Roundup
RTZ said pretax profit fell to #562 million ($971 million)
in 1991 from #879 million a year earlier on a 3.8% decline in
revenue to #4.89 billion from #5.08 billion.
   Net attributable profit before exceptional items showed a
30% decline to #354 million from #507 million. This was
slightly higher than previous market forecasts for a total of
#300 million to #345 million.
   The company linked the decline in profitability to a 17%
drop in the average price of nonferrous metals as measured by
the Economist index. It underlined that the index showed 1991
prices down 34% over the past two years.
   "A deteriorating trend in prices was the main problem for
metals in 1991," commented Robert Wilson, RTZ chief executive
officer. He added that "total demand for metals, though
reasonably well maintained, did not increase" even as world
production did. He said aluminum and uranium were worst hit,
and that gold continued to drift in 1991.
   Elsewhere, RTZ's exposure to weak construction markets in
the U.S. and Britain dented profit from its industrial
minerals and industrial products divisions.
   RTZ said it made extraordinary provisions of #103 million
for potential losses on disposals and impairment of asset
values. It specified that these mainly relate to its 49%
holding in Australia's CRA Ltd., notably #67 million to cover
the carrying value of its investment in Bougainville Copper.
It didn't elaborate.
   RTZ had an extraordinary gain of #29 million in 1990.
   Mr. Wilson drew attention to several encouraging prospects
for the year. He observed that efficiency gains were
accelerated, and that operating cash flow fell by only 7% to
#744 million despite the profit decline. He also said that
high cash generation allowed RTZ to boost capital spending
slightly, while leaving its debt-to-equity ratio little
changed at 27%.
   Looking ahead, RTZ Chairman Sir Derek Birkin said that
"the prospects for 1992 are overshadowed by continuing
recession in North America and the U.K., and by clear signs
of slower growth" in other leading industrialized countries.
   He acknowledged that there are dangers of further
political instability and economic decline in former Soviet
republics and said that "consequently, the risk of additional
disruptive trade flows overhangs some of the mineral
markets."
   But for the longer term, he suggested that the supply and
demand picture will be better balanced as financial
constraints tend to restrain the development of new projects.
Against this backdrop, he said that "RTZ, with its strong
balance sheet and excellent track record should not be
inhibited in its own investment plans."
   In discussing the plans for Utah, Kennecott said its new
smelter will help reduce that world-wide bottleneck in copper
production and will make it possible for the company to
refine all of its own production from its Bingham Canyon
mine. About 40% of the mine's current output is exported for
smelting.
   The new smelter will produce about 85% of its own
electrical energy by recovering waste heat, a significant
saving for the energy-intensive process. The company also
said it will capture 99.9% of the sulfur contained in the
copper ore sent to the refinery, compared with 93% in its
current smelter. Sulfur dioxide emissions will be reduced in
the new smelter as well, the company said.
   The project will require environmental permits from both
state and federal governments. Kennecott said the engineering
and permitting process will take about a year to complete.
   The near-term impact of the U.S. move, however, was to
generate a #46 million exceptional charge after tax for
future depreciation at the group's existing smelter.