Economy:
   Congressional Democrats Revive Push
   For New Extension of Jobless Benefits
   ----
   By Jackie Calmes
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
It's unclear whether the effort would bring a new showdown
with Mr. Bush, who's been on the political ropes given his
hands-off approach to a worsening economy. However, a White
House spokesman said Friday, "We have no plans to extend the
unemployment benefits."
   The current program provides up to 20 weeks of aid to
jobless workers who have run out of state benefits. Rep. Dan
Rostenkowski of Illinois, chairman of the House Ways and
Means Committee, and Rep. Thomas Downey of New York, who
heads the Ways and Means subcommittee responsible for the
issue, want to make that aid available through Oct. 3 -- more
than three months beyond the present June 13 cutoff. Also
under their proposal, beneficiaries who exhausted their
federal aid before June 13 and still didn't have a job could
qualify for 13 weeks more aid -- for a new maximum of 33
weeks. Due to the potential cost, that level of aid wouldn't
be available to those who exhausted all benefits between
mid-June and October.
   The measure would cost an estimated $4.5 billion. It would
require the president to declare a spending emergency, in
order to avoid a budgetary mandate that new spending be
offset by other spending cuts or by tax increases. The
administration spokesman said it was "highly unlikely" that
the president would agree to waive the budget law. In the
past, both Reps. Rostenkowski and Downey had called,
unsuccessfully, for higher payroll taxes on employers to
finance additional aid to the jobless. Mr. Bush opposes that
option also.
   In the Senate, a spokesman said Finance Committee Chairman
Lloyd Bentsen (D., Texas) also would begin moving
unemployment legislation through his panel in coming weeks.
   The Democrats' plans became known Friday after the Labor
Department reported that the unemployment rate rose to 7.1%
of the work force in December from 6.9% the month before. The
news also came as Mr. Bush returned from an economic summit
in Japan that he had billed as a crusade for U.S. jobs. "The
president must now put away his suitcase and provide the
leadership we need to get the economy moving again," Rep.
Downey said.
   The program Democrats want to extend provides either 13 or
20 weeks of additional aid to jobless workers who have
exhausted their basic 26 weeks of state aid and are still
unemployed. The longer period of benefits is available to
claimants in states with the highest unemployment rates. The
aid became law only after a four-month fight between the
president and Congress, during which Mr. Bush blocked two
versions but suffered a slide in the public-opinion polls due
to his handling of the economy.