REVIEW & OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   Victories in the Campus Wars
There's even good news from Stanford "Hey, hey, ho, ho,
Western Civ's got to go" University. The PC crowd there tried
to make it harder to defend claims of rape on campus by
lowering the standard of proof for conviction under campus
disciplinary codes for all crimes. The Sexual Assault Task
Force proferred a high-minded reason for their assault on
innocent until proven guilty -- that weakening the burden of
proof would encourage women to press charges of rape and
harassment. The proposal was defeated after opposition by
student leaders from all sides of the political spectrum.
   At Wichita State University, faculty members recently
voted down a proposal that students must take courses in
race, gender and ethnicity. The leader of the faculty faction
fighting this requirement reminded his colleagues that the
issue was academic freedom. One dissenting professor declared
the vote only proved that there were "a closet full of David
Dukes" on the WSU faculty. The faculty at the University of
Washington also recently defeated a plan to require such PC
sensitivity courses.
   The faculty at Drake University in Des Moines approved
guidelines affirming principles of academic freedom. These
included a statement opposing any university regulation that
would prohibit any form of speech or communication in the
classroom, however offensive. The faculty also refused to
single out sexual, racial or religious harassment as crimes
for especially heavy punishment.
   On a related front, PCers might wish they had never
defeated the nomination of Carol Iannone to the National
Humanities Council. Joel Conarroe of the Guggenheim
Foundation and the leaders of the Modern Language Association
last summer managed to block the Senate confirmation of this
conservative scholar because she didn't share their race- and
gender-obsessed views of literature. Lynne Cheney, head of
National Endowment for the Humanities, has a new nominee,
Kenny Jackson Williams, a well-established professor of
English at Duke who takes classical literature seriously. She
is also highly articulate, a skill she has used to register
her distaste with the faddish orthodoxy's emphasis on race
and ethnic studies. Prof. Williams is black.
   There is also some bad news. At the University of
Wisconsin-Milwaukee, conservative radio personality Mark
Belling was invited as a speaker, then attacked by objects
hurled by protesters and driven off the stage. The local ACLU
leader criticized the assault on free speech, but
rationalized the mob's action by saying the students were
"justifiably frustrated" -- racism and homophobia led them to
violate the First Amendment rights of others. At least
student newspapers, left and right, denounced the
demonstrators.
   It's too soon to celebrate a turning of the tide, but not
too soon to say that intellectual dignity and conscience are
finding their voices here and there on the campuses. We call
that good news by any measure.