Wall Street Plays High-Brow Super Bowl
   ----
   By Stanley W. Angrist
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
About 100 guests, some from as far away as the West Coast,
are expected in the "trading pit" at the Parker Meridien
Hotel in Manhattan, and another 100 or so will phone their
orders. No money is changing hands, but the top two prizes
are one-week trips to Paris for two.
   To win will require more than picking the Buffalo Bills or
the Washington Redskins, which professional gamblers
currently favor to win by seven points. Traders actually will
be betting on moves in a Super Bowl "index," which is
calculated by subtracting Buffalo's score from Washington's
score and adding 100.
   Each player will start with 200 "points" of capital, which
can simply be bet in favor of one team or another and left to
ride. But, says Benoit Ruaudel, chief options trader for
currencies at Societe Generale's New York office, making lots
of options trades to exploit the game's progress is the only
way to run up a big score. The winner of the bank's rugby
market in Paris last year amassed a score of 1,800 points.
   This game favors loud, aggressive risktakers rather than
soft-spoken conservative types, say people who watched the
rugby versions in Paris and in Sydney, Australia. It helps to
know a little about both football and options, they advise.
At the least, they need to understand that call options
increase in value as the index rises above the "strike price"
-- the index level that one trader has bet will be achieved
and one has bet won't be -- and that put options become more
valuable as the index falls below the strike price.
   Thus, a trader who buys a Super Bowl 106 call has a winner
as long as Washington's score is at least seven points
greater than Buffalo's. But if, say, Buffalo scores a field
goal and the index falls to 103, the holder of a 104 put
option moves "into the money." If the trader with the 106
call is still holding it, he or she loses points; but that
trader could "pocket" some points by trading the option away
before the seven-point spread narrowed.
   If the difference in the teams' scores is great, players
who buy options with strike prices that initially are far
"out of the money" should start practicing French.
   Here is one high-risk option strategy. A player who thinks
Washington will win by a big margin expects a high index
number at games's end. At the start of the game, with the
index being quoted at 102 bid to 105 offered, a 120 call
option might "cost" around 0.5 point. This trader could buy
as many as 400 of these calls.
   Washington has to win by at least 21 points for this
strategy to pay off. If it wins by 27 points, the options
would finish "in the money" by seven points. After deducting
the initial cost, the profit would be 6.5 points on 400
options, or 2,600 points.