International:
   Miyazawa, Making Waves, Seeks to Curb
   The Clout of Tokyo University's Alumni
   ----
   By Urban C. Lehner
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The new policy, adopted last week, concerns the hiring
practices of government ministries, specifically their hiring
of elite civil servants. These are the people who run the
bureacracy of this bureaucratic state. Elite bureaucrats
aren't paid as well as their counterparts at big companies,
but their prestige is enormous. Last summer 14,836 young
Japanese took the rigorous qualifying examination but only
508 passed and only 310 have been hired to enter the
ministries this spring.
   Most Japanese parents would do anything to get their sons
one of these jobs, and that's where Tokyo University comes
in. The most powerful and prestigious bureaucracies, like the
Finance Ministry and the Ministry of International Trade and
Industry, traditionally take more than 70% of their entrants
from Tokyo University. Overall, about 60% of the new
top-class bureucrats are from Todai, as the school is called,
even though Todai graduates account for only about 50% of
those passing the examination.
   Getting their children into Todai means that parents first
must get them into the "right" high schools, which in turn
requires getting them into the right junior high schools,
primary schools and even kindergartens. At each stage there
are standardized tests to pass, most emphasizing rote
memorization, and to prepare for the tests many children
spend their after-school hours in "cram" schools from an
early age.
   The Miyazawa cabinet, hoping to ameliorate this
"examination hell" syndrome, de-emphasize credentialism and
promote diversity, is exhorting government ministries to use
their best efforts to reduce Todai graduates to 50% of the
incoming elite bureaucrats over the next five years. That
would mean hiring only 25 or 30 fewer Todai grads in a
typical year, but even this small suggested change left many
Japanese both stunned and cynical.
   The cabinet's program, said the Mainichi newspaper, "may
have revolutionary consequences, and could overturn the
hierarchical social structure -- and therefore has no chance
of succeeding without the cooperation of officials at the
Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of International Trade and
Industry and the National Police Agency, most of whom are
Todai alumni."
   Some of those officials saw the decision as a crass play
to the populist galleries by a prime minister immersed in
scandals and other political woes and facing an Upper-House
parliamentary election this summer. Most voters' children
don't get into Todai and some resent those who do. Mr.
Miyazawa, who was a Finance Ministry official himself before
entering politics, has long been a symbol of the power of the
elite bureaucrats.
   Privately, one of the prime minister's political allies
conceded that politics figured heavily in the decision.
Others saw merit in the cabinet's rationale, if not in the
decision itself.
   "As a long-term trend, it's the right way of doing
things," said Takashi Inoguchi, a Todai grad who teaches
political science at the school. "I'm not quite sure that
Tokyo University graduates are better, and rigidity of
thinking has been manifest in the bureaucracy."