International -- Washington Insight:
   Relative Lull in Middle East Terrorism
   Offers Some Cautious Hope for Change
   ----
   By Gerald F. Seib
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
But some U.S. officials are beginning to speculate that
fundamental political changes in the Middle East may be
reducing the terrorism threat. All the main state sponsors of
terrorism in the 1970s and 1980s -- Syria, Iran, Iraq and
Libya -- have powerful political reasons to avoid
underwriting terrorism for now.
   Attacks could still be staged by just a few operators
acting on their own. But in the past, the biggest operations
have been pulled off with help or sponsorship from a Middle
East government, and sometimes with logistical help from
former Soviet bloc nations in Eastern Europe.
   Because Middle East state sponsors may be reconsidering
their roles, and because the Soviet bloc has been shattered,
"the trends in counter-terrorism are really quite favorable,"
says one U.S. terrorism-watcher.
   The most encouraging sign so far is something that hasn't
happened: Nearly three months have passed since Israel and
its Arab neighbors opened historic face-to-face negotiations,
and there hasn't yet been a major terrorist incident launched
by the radical Arab forces vehemently opposed to the peace
process.
   That is a surprise; many U.S. officials expected a surge
of terrorism.
   Some analysts argue that this seeming calm is nothing but
a mirage. "After a while, the Middle East peace talks are
going to wane," says Robert Kupperman, who tracks terrorism
at the Center for Strategic and International Studies. At
that point, he says, groups that now probably are lying low
because Syrian leader Hafez Assad is participating in the
peace process "are going to feel far less restrained." He
adds: "None of these people is out of the terrorism business.
They're being held at bay by Assad for a while."
   Certainly there are some troubling signs. The Sudan, a
North African country that hasn't before been identified with
terrorism, has been drifting steadily toward the radical Arab
camp. Now it seems to be opening its doors to terrorist
operators.
   A coming State Department report on terrorism will assert
that in the past year the Sudan has "enhanced" its
cooperation with terrorist organizations, including the
notorious Abu Nidal organization based in nearby Libya. The
report also says that the Sudanese government reportedly has
approved the opening of terrorist camps.
   But elsewhere, the political picture is more positive.
Having lost its main benefactor with the decline of the
Soviet Union, Syria apparently decided about two years ago to
cultivate better ties with the U.S. It is eager to get off
the official U.S. list of states that sponsor terrorism. To
be sure, Damascus continues to provide a home to radical
Palestinian terror organizations that sometimes act against
Israel. But these groups haven't been as active on the
international front in the past few years.
   Iraq was building stronger ties to terrorist groups just
before it invaded Kuwait. But in the wake of the Persian Gulf
War, Iraqi leader Saddam Hussein appears to be lying low in
hopes the world community will lose interest in maintaining
international sanctions against him. Above all, he appears
eager to avoid provoking the U.S. and its allies to move back
into Iraq militarily to finish him off.
   Iran is dallying with terrorists, but seemingly in a
limited fashion. It appears to be sanctioning periodic
assassinations of exiled Iranian opposition figures. And just
as the Middle East peace talks opened last fall, it hosted a
conference of peace foes that brought together the region's
most notorious terrorist leaders.
   But there isn't any sign that the conference authorized or
ordered any action, and many analysts think Iran hosted it
mostly to satisfy radical elements inside its own government.
Iran was chiefly responsible for the release of remaining
U.S. hostages in Lebanon, an act that seemed to signal that
Iranian leaders had concluded the principal terror operation
in which they were involved hadn't paid off. In fact, Iran
was so eager to be rid of the hostage problem that in the end
it paid off the radical cells holding U.S. hostages in
Lebanon, perhaps as much as $1 million or more per hostage,
to release them, U.S. officials said. The payments were first
reported in the Washington Post yesterday.
   Meanwhile, Libya appears besieged and defensive, thanks to
a combined U.S., British and French political campaign over
charges that Libyan agents blew up a U.S. and a French
airliner a few years ago. Libya is scrambling to avoid
international sanctions or military reprisal, and doesn't
seem eager to let its terrorist clients loose -- at least for
the time being.