Advertising:
   Amex Card
   Takes On Visa
   Over Olympics
   ----
   By Joanne Lipman
In a bold move for American Express, the big credit card
issuer is attacking Visa's claims -- while still managing to
avoid naming its competitor -- in hard-hitting ads of its
own. It's a risky strategy for the company, which has built
its reputation with classy advertising that positioned it
above the competitor-bashing fray.
   But Kenneth I. Chenault, president of the consumer card
group, says American Express has no choice but to fight back.
Visa's latest Olympics ads are "misleading," he charges, and
"misinform the public."
   The new campaign lashes out specifically against Visa's
claim that the Winter Olympics "don't take American Express."
Like Visa's own ads -- and the Olympic Games themselves --
the spots are set in the French Alps. Even though the ads,
which came out in newspapers and on network television
yesterday, don't mention Visa by name, they leave no doubt
about their target.
   One ad pictures a gondola climbing high into the Alps; the
side of the gondola turns out to be a big American Express
card. "You're with someone who is right here to help you . .
. like no one else can," says the announcer. "So who is it?
Well, it isn't a bankcard."
   Another ad shows a horse-drawn sleigh and a little French
village with big American Express cards popping up all over,
similar in style to an American Express ad set in New York.
"You've got friends over here, all over town," the announcer
intones. "And you had the impression that lots of places over
here didn't take the card. Yeah, right."
   American Express denies it is practicing "ambush
marketing" by cashing in on the Olympics even though it isn't
an official Olympic sponsor. Visa paid about $20 million for
the right to be the exclusive Olympic credit card sponsor
world-wide; American Express paid nothing. Yet viewers
probably can't tell which is the real sponsor: American
Express's ads not only are set in the French Alps but refer
prominently to the "winter fun and games." They will air, as
will Visa's, during CBS's Olympic coverage.
   Mr. Chenault insists American Express isn't trying to bash
Visa but simply wants its cardmembers to know that they can
use their cards in Albertville, where the games begin this
weekend. While Visa is the only credit card accepted at the
ticket gate, American Express is accepted almost everywhere
else in town, he says.
   The credit card giant is also opening six customer service
centers, a mobile travel office outside each day's major
events and a 24-hour, multilingual help line for visitors.
Newspaper ads tout those services and others under the
headline, "An American Express Cardmembers Guide to the
Winter Games." WPP Group's Ogilvy  Mather crafted the
newspaper ads, though American Express's new ad agency,
Chiat/Day/Mojo, created the television spots.
   "We have a customer obligation to inform our card members
about our services, particularly when others are misinforming
the public," Mr. Chenault says. He says the campaign "isn't
at all meant to imply that Amex is a sponsor of the
Olympics."
   Yet with its snow-covered peaks and references to the
winter games, the campaign is sure to fool at least some TV
viewers. Just last week, 25% of respondents in a study by
Performance Research, Newport, R.I., identified American
Express as an Olympic sponsor, although 44% correctly
identified Visa. The confusion is likely to mount with the
new campaign.
   Marketing executives say that a little confusion may do
American Express good. "Ambushing" can be an effective
strategy for advertisers that don't want to bother paying
millions of dollars for the right to use the Olympic rings in
ads, they say. Plenty of non-Olympic sponsors other than
American Express will no doubt be trying out the strategy
themselves in coming weeks.
   While Bristol-Myers Squibb's Nuprin is the official
pain-reliever of the Olympics, for example, Johnson 
Johnson, which makes arch competitor Tylenol, is the
exclusive pharmaceutical sponsor of CBS's Olympic broadcast.
And while McDonald's is the only official fast-food sponsor,
Subway is trying to cash in with an in-store promotion of its
own. (Subway seized on the tenuous connection that cold-cut
suppliers Oscar Mayer Foods Corp. and Louis Rich Co. are
Olympic sponsors.)
   Similarly, the U.S. Postal Service's Express Mail paid
dearly to be the official Olympic delivery service. Yet
Performance Research found that 61% of survey respondents
instead named Federal Express as the official courier,
apparently assuming that its recent ad campaign is tied in to
the Olympics.
   American Express, though, has far more at stake than
chasing a little reflected Olympic glory: Its in-the-trenches
campaign may reflect that it can't afford to ignore its
competition any longer. In 1991, its U.S. card membership
dropped slightly to 25.8 million from 25.9 million in 1990,
and its charge volume of about $111.5 billion world-wide
remained flat, according to W. Wilson Davis, an analyst and
senior vice president of securities firm Gerard Klauer
Mattison  Co. Meanwhile, Visa and MasterCard, fueled partly
by American Telephone  Telegraph's aggressive push, grew
between 5% and 7%, he estimates.
   American Express's share of total U.S. card spending has
also been dropping, from 21% of all card spending in 1987 to
just over 16% last year, Mr. Davis says. Among other
troubles, the card has been under attack by a number of
restaurants and other businesses complaining that its fees
are too high.
   Visa executives Friday hadn't yet seen the new ads, but a
spokesman said the company was expecting them and wasn't
concerned. Visa has already been advertising its Olympic role
heavily for more than a year, he noted. "Any attempt at
ambush marketing is not only expensive," he said, "but it's
too little, too late."
   ---
   Lintas Wins Brand Bacardi
                                                                                                       

   Bacardi Import Inc. ended its five-month agency review
Friday, consolidating more than $20 million in billings for
all its rum products with Lintas: New York, whose new
campaign is called "Just Add Bacardi."
   The win gives Lintas, a unit of Interpublic Group of Cos.,
not just billings but also a badly needed vote of confidence.
The agency's new president, F. Stone Roberts, said he
considered polishing the agency's reputation a major priority
when he was appointed last week.
   For the incumbent agency, McCaffrey  McCall, the loss was
made less painful by a $15 million account win from the
Caribbean Tourism Organization. McCaffrey chairman Robert
Cherins said the new account "absolutely negates the loss" of
Bacardi's U.S. advertising. Last year Bacardi spent more than
$17 million on advertising its rum and coolers in the first
nine months alone, according to Leading National Advertisers.
Bacardi said it would increase spending in 1992.
   Nonetheless, the embattled midsized agency dismissed at
least six of its approximately 400 employees last week,
including two from the Bacardi account, according to industry
sources. Mr. Cherins declined to say how many were let go.
McCaffrey also is defending its jumbo $88 million account,
Mercedes-Benz of North America, a unit of Daimler-Benz AG, in
a review whose future could decide the future of the agency.
   Other New York agencies in the final round of Bacardi
presentations included Ammirati  Puris and Grey Advertising.
McCaffrey retains the account for Bacardi's Canadian unit.
   ---
   Pee-Wee's Penny Returns
                                                                                                       

   Penny, the penny-eyed, pigtailed cartoon girl from
"Pee-wee's Playhouse" is returning to television -- in a
drug-awareness spot, courtesy of actor Paul Reubens.
   Leo Burnett Co., Chicago, created the public-service
message for the Partnership for a Drug-Free America. Mr.
Reubens, who created and portrayed the character Pee-wee
Herman in a children's television show, licensed the Penny
character to the partnership for free and gets credit as a
production consultant. His role in making the spot fulfills
the 75-hour community-service sentence he received in
Sarasota County, Fla., last fall after pleading no contest to
indecent-exposure charges.
   The 30-second cartoon, aimed at six-year-olds to
eight-year-olds, will be offered to stations as soon as
"formalities" related to the pro-bono licensing agreement are
completed, Mr. Reubens's publicist said.
   ---
   Pepsi Sets Jackson Pact
                                                                                                       

   PepsiCo is signing pop performer Michael Jackson for a new
set of commercials, but don't expect to see them unless
you're traveling overseas.
   Pepsi figures Mr. Jackson has run his course in the U.S.
for now, but he is still quite popular overseas, says a
marketer for the big soft-drink company. So the new
commercials, to be produced by Omnicom Group's BBDO unit,
will be shown strictly abroad. The company is releasing
details of the sponsorship today.
   ---
   Ad Notes. . . .
                                                                                                       

   TWA: Avrett, Free  Ginsberg Chairman Jack Avrett said the
New York agency wasn't left holding the bag for client Trans
World Airlines, which filed for federal bankruptcy-law
protection Friday. Avrett gets paid up front every month for
its creative services, Mr. Avrett said. TWA said it expects
to increase its estimated $45 million advertising budget in
coming months.
                                                                                                       

   WHO'S NEWS: Karen Amorelli, president of ACR Advertising,
New York, resigned from the Saatchi  Saatchi unit best known
for its Seventh Avenue clients. Ms. Amorelli's departure,
after 20 years with the agency, comes three months after
Saatchi realigned the unit to report through Backer
Spielvogel Bates Worldwide, New York. Agency executives
didn't return calls seeking to find out when or whether she
would be replaced.
                                                                                                       

   DREYFUS: Two former executives from now-defunct Levine,
Huntley, Vick  Beaver opened their own agency, Paster Russo
Inc., to handle Dreyfus Corp.'s $8 million to $10 million
financial-services account. Ken Paster, the former account
head, and Nathan Russo, the former creative head, are based
in Dreyfus's New York offices but are out pitching new
clients, the executives said.
                                                                                                       

   ACCOUNTS: The Atlanta office of Fahlgren Martin, a unit of
Interpublic Group, won the Southeast Cadillac Dealer
Marketing Association's estimated $5 million account
previously handled by Babbitt  Reiman, Atlanta. . . . The
Chicago office of Bozell won the ad account for Speedy Car
X's Speedy Muffler King, a chain of 250 car-service stations.
The incumbent, the Detroit office of WPP Group's J. Walter
Thompson, retains Car-X's muffler and brake account.