Winter Olympics 1992:
   Results
   ----
   By Timothy J. Carroll
Germany's Jacqueline Boerner won the women's 1,500-meter
speed skating, edging favored teammate Gunda Neimann by 0.05
second. Ms. Boerner's winning time was 2:05:87
   Japan's Seiko Hashimoto, in her thrid and last Winter
Olympics, finally won a medal, taking the bronze.
   Yvonne van Gennip, the defending Olympic champion, fell 27
seconds into the race and didn't finish. Bonnie Blair, fourth
in the event in the 1988 Olympics, faded and finished 21st.
The top American was Mary Docter in 15th.
   The race was again postponed for one hour because of high
temperatures.
                                                                                                       

   BIATHLON
                                                                                                       

   Mark Kirchner, a double world champion, led Germany to a
1-2 finish in the 10-kilometer biathlon, edging his good
friend Ricco Gross.
   Messrs. Kirchner and Gross, both 21, are from the former
East Germany. Harri Eloranta of Finland won the bronze.
   The four Germans finished in the top nine in the race,
which combines marksmanship with cross-country skiing.
   Mr. Kirchner, an army sergeant, shot perfectly on both
shooting ranges and finished in 26:02.3. Mr. Gross was 15.76
seconds behind, including one lap on the 150-meter penalty
loop for missing one target from the standing position.
                                                                                                       

   LUGE
                                                                                                       

   Austrian sisters Doris and Angelika Neuner slid to a 1-2
finish in the singles luge.
   World champion Susi Erdmann of Germany, fourth halfway
through the two-day, four-heat race, took the bronze. Andrea
Tagwerker of Austria, third after Tuesday's two heats, slid
into the wall in the third run and finished seventh.
   Doris Neuner, 20, took the lead in Tuesday's first heat
and finished with a total time of 3:06.696. Her 22-year-old
sister nearly caught her yesterday, closing the gap to 0.073
second.
   Cammy Myler of the U.S. finished fifth.
                                                                                                       

   NORDIC COMBINED
                                                                                                       

   Fabrice Guy of France won the Nordic combined event, the
host country's first gold, while fellow Frenchmen Sylvain
Guillaume unexpectedly won the silver.
   Klaus Sulzenbacher of Austria took third.
   At the end of the 15-kilometer cross country circuit, Mr.
Guy was 48 seconds ahead of Mr. Guillaume. Mr. Guy started
out about 42 seconds behind Klaus Ofner of Austria, who led
after the ski-jump portion of the event. Mr. Sulzenbacher
started the cross-country skiing four seconds behind the
eventual gold medalist.
                                                                                                       

   COMBINED DOWNHILL
                                                                                                       

   Austria's Petra Kronberger is leadind after the downhill
portion of the women's combined race, putting her into the
favorite's position for today's slalom half.
   American Krista Schmidinger is second, although it's
unlikely that she will stay that close today to Ms.
Kronberger, the defending World Cup slalom champion.
   Chief competitors for the gold include Switzerland's
Chantal Bournissen, the 1991 world combined champion, who is
seventh, and Austrian slalom specialist Anita Wachter, who is
12th.
                                                                                                       

   HOCKEY
                                                                                                       

   Czechoslovakia beat the United Team 4-3 on a goal by Petr
Rosol with 3:18 left in the third period. Czechoslovakia
moves to 3-0 and clinches a spot in the medal round. The
United Team falls to 2-1.
   Canada, 3-0, also clinched a spot in the medal round with
a 10-0 rout of Norway.
   France beat Switzerland 4-3, keeping alive a hope of
making the expanded medal round. Stephane Barin's 20-foot
slap shot snapped a tie with 3:18 to play. France is now 1-2.
   Four of the six teams in each ofthe two groups make the
medal round.
                                                                                                       

   MOGULS
                                                                                                       

   World champion Edgar Grospiron of France was first after
the preliminary round in the first-ever men's Olympic
freestyle skiing.
   Fellow Frenchman Olivier Allamand was second, Canadian
Jan-Luc Brassard was third, and American Nelson Carmichael, a
former two-time world champion, stood fourth.
   In the women's preliminaries, Raphaelle Monard of France
led, followed by two-time world champion Donna Weinbrecht of
the U.S. Next were Stine Hattestad of Norway and American Liz
McIntyre.