Technology  Health:
   Dow Corning Still Keeps Implant Data
   From Public, Despite Vow of Openness
   ----
   By Thomas M. Burton and Scott McMurray
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
The company also hasn't made public post-1985 documents on
the controversial implants that the U.S. Food and Drug
Administration has requested; a company spokesman said Dow
Corning is in the process of accumulating that material for
the FDA. Last week, the company made public more than 100
pre-1985 safety documents after the FDA insisted it do so.
   Further, interviews with company officials indicate that
Dow Corning management didn't fully brief its own directors
about mounting evidence from medical journals that appeared
to link breast implants to a range of human immune-system
illnesses.
   Keith R. McKennon, named last week as Dow Corning's
chairman and chief executive officer, said in a weekend
interview, "I believe our overriding responsibility is to the
women who have our implants." Dow Corning is a 50-50 joint
venture of the Dow Chemical Co., also based in Midland, and
Corning Inc., which is based in Corning, N.Y.
   The 58-year-old former Dow Chemical vice chairman
contended that the company "has gotten itself in a terrible
pickle" by continuing to insist that court documents remain
under seal.
   Still, Mr. McKennon said yesterday that "on advice of
counsel, we will continue to seek and enforce protective
orders where our attorneys believe that is appropriate."
   Leroy Hersh, the lawyer who sued Dow Corning in the San
Francisco case, said he is seeking the safety documents'
disclosure, but that Dow Corning lawyers are scheduled Friday
to oppose his motion in a court hearing. His case, resulting
in a $1.7 million verdict against Dow Corning in 1984, is
separate from another San Francisco lawsuit that resulted in
a $7.3 million verdict last December against the company.
   An FDA advisory panel has set three days of hearings
beginning today on the safety of the silicone gel devices,
two million of which have been surgically implanted in
American women in the last three decades. Dow Corning is only
one of four U.S. manufacturers of the product, but it was the
developer of silicone implants.
   Last month, FDA Commissioner David Kessler set a
moratorium on the silicone implants' sale that will continue
at least until the conclusion of this week's hearings.
   One of the major unresolved questions about the devices
concerns whether silicone that seeps through the implants'
lining can cause a range of human immune-system diseases,
with symptoms ranging from arthritis-like joint pain to
severely swollen abdomens. Also at issue is the frequency
with which the implants rupture or lead to a massive buildup
of hardened, and deforming, scar tissue in the breasts.
   Mr. McKennon, a Dow Corning director since 1987, said he
recalls several briefings of the board on these matters.
Management raised the immune-system issue before the board in
"roughly 1990," he said, and convinced board members that "it
wasn't a problem."
   Yet articles in medical journals had raised the
possibility of a link between implants and immune diseases as
early as the 1970s. And Robert R. LeVier, Dow Corning's
technical director for health care, said the question of such
a connection "became of interest to me in 1987" and that the
company started several short-term animal studies on the
matter at that time.
   Still, Lawrence Reed, then Dow Corning's chief executive
officer and an executive who would have been key in briefing
board members, said in an interview he wasn't aware of the
immune-system issue until the last few months. Now Dow
Corning's president and chief operating officer, Mr. Reed was
replaced by Mr. McKennon as chief executive officer in the
wake of the breast-implant controversy.
   The issue of immune-system illnesses "came up just
recently in the {lawsuit resulting in the December 1991
verdict}, and it surprised everybody," said Mr. Reed in the
interview. But, later through a spokesman, Mr. Reed said he
knew of the issue in 1987 but that it didn't become
sufficiently pressing to warrant any human studies until last
year.
   Dr. LeVier and other top Dow Corning officials continue to
believe that, while the immune-system question is a serious
one, there isn't enough scientific evidence to prove the
implants cause such maladies.
   Several doctors say they have examined hundreds of women
with breast implants and immune-system illnesses. Some say
the diseases disappeared in many cases after the devices were
removed. However, there haven't been any rigorous medical
surveys of women to determine whether a statistical link
truly exists.
   Dow Corning itself commissioned such a study beginning in
last year's third quarter, a project Dr. LeVier said took two
years to design. That research, at the University of
Michigan, involves identifying thousands of Michigan women
with immune-system disease, and a control group of thousands
of others without the disease; the plan is to see if there is
a statistical difference between the two groups in the number
of women with breast implants.