Medicine:
   Breast Cancer Study Backs Hormone Use
   ----
   By Peter Waldman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Tamoxifen, produced by Imperial Chemical Industries,
blocks the cancer-stimulating action of the female sex
hormone estrogen. British cancer specialists have propounded
its use in all breast cancer patients for several years.
American doctors, however, were slow to begin using tamoxifen
before 1990, when a federal "consensus conference" noted that
the drug reduced recurrences of breast cancer by a third.
   The new analysis found that chemotherapy plus tamoxifen
after surgery for earlystage breast cancer increased the
number of patients who were alive 10 years later by 12% over
the patients treated with surgery alone. The proportion of
patients who survive 10 years after surgery alone wasn't
given because the analysis involved trials encompassing a
wide variety of patients with differing potentials for cure.
   However, recent trials in the U.S. found that four years
after diagnosis 80% to 84% of the women treated with
tamoxifen or chemotherapy after surgery were alive and free
of cancer, compared with 70% to 77% treated with surgery
alone.
   The so-called meta-study, an analysis of 133 treatment
trials dating back to the 1950s, is scheduled for publication
in the next two issues of the British medical journal Lancet.
Its results, released here yesterday, confirm what many
specialists already know about the benefits of hormonal
therapy, particularly with tamoxifen.
   The study concludes that for women over 50 -- more than
three-quarters of all breast-cancer patients -- chemotherapy
enhances the 10-year survival rate by 5%, compared with
having no treatment beyond surgery. A two-year course of
tamoxifen increases the 10-year survival rate by 8% above
surgery alone. Longer use of tamoxifen, which has few side
effects on middle-aged women, increases survival rates
slightly more.
   "A lot of people, especially in the U.S., are getting
chemotherapy, when, in fact, hormonal treatments, or a mix,
are more effective," says Richard Peto, a statistician with
the Imperial Cancer Research Fund and chief author of the
study.
   But U.S. doctors, who use chemotherapy more often than
doctors in most of Europe, aren't likely to change their
treatment patterns, says Andrew Dorr of the National Cancer
Institute in the U.S. Most don't read academic journals like
Lancet, he says, and don't understand how metastudies are
generated.
   The meta-study may have more impact on the treatment of
breast-cancer patients younger than 50. For them, the study
shows, the surgical removal of ovaries yields a slightly
higher improvement in the 10-year survival rate than
chemotherapy, when both treatments are compared to having no
treatment at all -- 11% for ovary removal compared with 10%
for chemotherapy. (Ovaries are the primary producers of
estrogen in pre-menopausal women.)
   Extrapolating from the data, Mr. Peto estimates that
combining ovarian surgery with chemotherapy would raise the
survival rate to 12% or more above the no-treatment standard.
   "I was one of the people who wrote papers in the early
1980s on how ablation would never work," says I. Craig
Henderson, the newly named chief of oncology at University of
California at San Francisco. "I was wrong."
   In addition, Dr. Henderson says he was "amazed" to see
hormonal therapies yielding 10-year survival rates on a par
with and better than chemotherapy.
   Another surprise in the data, researchers say, is that
tamoxifen appears to be just as effective as chemotherapy in
treating post-menopausal women infected by cancer types not
thought to be receptive to hormonal therapy. These so-called
receptor-negative cancers have generally been treated with
chemotherapy, the study says, but tamoxifen turns out to be
equally effective.
   "So if only one is to be given, tamoxifen might be
preferred," write the editors of Lancet, in an editorial to
be published with the study.