Travelers Moves to Keep Management
   In Control Amid Capital-Raising Effort
   ----
   By Susan Pulliam
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Travelers also said it lost $1.1 billion in pension
business last year as pension managers, worried about its
real estate problems, fled to other insurers with higher
ratings. The disclosures, along with other details of how its
real estate problems are affecting its business, were made in
the Hartford, Conn., company's annual report, mailed to
shareholders this week.
   The compensation packages, according to the proxy
statement mailed to shareholders, would provide a salary
based on the highest paycheck level of the previous year to
nine senior managers for three years, if there is a "change
in control" at the company. The plan also would provide for
any of the managers to receive three years' salary in one
lump sum if they are terminated without cause.
   The language in Travelers' "golden parachute" provision
isn't unusual. Many large companies have put such plans in
place in recent years. The action by Travelers is
significant, however, because it comes amid the effort to
raise capital.
   In year-end filings with the Securities and Exchange
Commission last week, Travelers disclosed that it is trying
to raise capital by selling a stake to an investor or
shedding certain businesses, among other options. In the
past, the company was said to be seeking to raise $500
million to $1 billion.
   The new compensation packages indicate that Travelers'
managers "want an investor, but they don't want to give up
control," said Gloria Vogel, an insurance analyst with
Shearson Lehman Brothers.
   But Ms. Vogel says the company may have to cut its
dividend to raise funds instead. She also said it may be
forced to transfer capital from other units to its life
insurance unit, which has the weakest capital base.
   A spokeswoman for Travelers said the company's
compensation plan is similar to those of other companies. The
plan is in addition to a previously adopted compensation plan
for all employees that would give them twice their normal
severance pay if the company undergoes a change in control.
   According to a spokeswoman, Chairman Edward H. Budd's
salary rose to $923,000 in 1991 from $700,000. President
Richard H. Booth's salary increase was to $667,308 from
$488,458 in 1990, and the salary of George A. McKeon, general
counsel, rose to $533,462 from $479,231.
   Travelers provided a better look at why it is seeking
capital in its annual report. Among other things, it
indicated how its real estate portfolio is affecting
financial results and cash flow: Of $1 billion in principal
payments on mortgages due last year, it said, only $258
million was paid as due. The rest is under negotiation for
possible restructuring, was foreclosed upon or is in the
process of foreclosure.
   In New York Stock Exchange trading yesterday, Travelers
stock was quoted at $20.125 a share, up 12.5 cents.