Technology & Health:
   LSI Withdraws
   From Sematech
   Research Group
   ----
   By Ken Yamada
   Staff Reporter of the Wall Street Journal
"We can do better with our research and development
dollars than investing in Sematech," LSI's president and
chief operating officer, George D. Wells, said in an
interview. But other big chip makers said LSI's withdrawal
won't hurt their support of the consortium.
   LSI objected to the consortium's direct funding of
companies that make chip manufacturing equipment, Mr. Wells
said. Sematech pumped money into semiconductor-equipment
companies, intending to improve the overall health of the
U.S. chip industry, he said. "Although that's a desirable
thing for the U.S. and the U.S. semiconductor industry, it is
not what we intended to do," he said.
   LSI's move comes after a recent poor showing for the
company. In November, LSI said it had slashed 140 employees
from its work force of 4,000, delayed the opening of a new
chip factory in Japan by a year to 1993, and would close for
five days during last month's holiday season. Earlier, it
reported third-quarter profit plunged 80% to $804,000, or two
cents a share, from about $4.2 million, or 10 cents a share,
a year ago.
   Both LSI and Sematech said that LSI's departure was not a
sign that the consortium, formed by U.S. semiconductor
producers and semiconductor manufacturing machine makers to
better compete with Japanese companies, is unraveling. For
other member companies, Mr. Wells said, "there is enough meat
on those bones."
   A spokesman for Intel Corp., Santa Clara, Calif., said it
will remain a strong supporter of Sematech despite LSI's
withdrawal. "We think that the success of Sematech is
critical to the success of America's high-technology sector,"
he said.
   LSI's departure will have "minimal effect" on funding at
Sematech, a Sematech spokesman said. The consortium receives
about $100 million in contributions from companies and
another $100 million in grants from the federal government,
he said. Although another company, which the spokesman would
not identify, turned in a two-year notice giving it the
option to resign, "the overwhelming majority of our members
are very happy and intend to stay," he said.
   LSI closed at $9, unchanged, in composite trading on the
New York Stock Exchange.