Utility Industry
   Decries Full Access
   To Transmission
   ----
   By Lourdes Lee Valeriano
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Mandatory transmission access would allow independent
power producers and cogenerators to use utilities'
transmission lines, regardless of utilities' objections.
Currently, independent power producers can use a utility's
transmission network to provide electricity to another
utility only with the first utility's consent.
   A comprehensive energy bill passed by the House
Subcommittee on Energy and Power last fall provides for
mandatory access as a means of increasing competition and
lowering power costs. The bill, which limits access to the
sale of power to other utilities, is expected to be
considered by the full House committee this March.
   The possibility of open access causes concern to many in
the industry. "It's one of the two or three most
controversial issues" in the House energy legislation, said
Shelley Fiddler, a spokeswoman for the House subcommittee.
   "It's a big issue for the industry" because it represents
additional federal intrusion into an area some see as best
suited to regional control, said Ernest Liu, a utility
industry analyst with Goldman Sachs. In addition, there
exists the fear that allowing mandatory transmission access
would eventually lead to "retail wheeling," or the use of a
utility's lines by independent power producers to supply
industrial consumers in that utility's area. The House
subcommittee bill currently bars retail wheeling.
   In a speech to the New York Society of Security Analysts,
Mr. Kuhn said that mandatory access "could hamper a utility's
ability to buy low-cost power from neighboring utilities and
. . . impair a utility's ability to serve the basic needs of
its own customers." The reason is that electricity can't be
stored once it is produced, Mr. Liu said. If a transmission
line is backed up, electricity would dissipate and could
cause a disruption.
   If the subcommittee bill does pass the House, it would
have to be taken up in a House-Senate conference committee.
The Senate energy bill doesn't mandate transmission access.
   As for the industry overall, Mr. Kuhn said he expects
energy consumption to grow annually at a 2%-to-2.5% rate for
the rest of the decade. Last year, consumption growth was
1.6%.
   He said that construction spending by investor-owned
electric companies is expected to increase, after declining
in the early 1980s and leveling off recently. Electric
companies, which spent $25.6 billion in construction last
year, will spend $27.1 billion this year and $27.9 billion in
1993.