The `Fortunate Fifth' Fallacy
   ----
   By Richard B. McKenzie
Fortunately, the reality of the changing income
distribution is far more complicated than the modern prophets
of gloom would have us believe. As rarely conceded, the real
median family income began to rebound after 1982. Moreover,
this measure of the real median is defective in three key
ways: (1) the method for computing the CPI was changed in
1983, the effect of which was to obscure the growth in real
incomes; (2) the average family size fell by 17% between 1970
and 1986; and (3) fringe benefits and other wage supplements,
which are not counted as family income, expanded from 12% of
total wages and salaries in 1970 to 20% in 1986.
   Researchers at the Congressional Budget Office have
determined that when the real median income is recomputed
with a consistent consumer price index (the so-called CPI-X)
and adjusted for the economies associated with smaller
families, the real median family income trends upward, rising
by 20% between 1970 and 1986. When real median income is
further adjusted to account, in a rough way, for the growth
in nonwage income, the rise during this period may be more
than 28%.
   While such revised data seriously undercut the critics'
empirical props, they have a ready-made comeback: The median
rose only because the rising economic tide "lifted the
yachts, but neither the tugboats nor the rowboats."
   Critics do have some of the facts on the changing income
distribution right. The share of total income going to the
quintile of households with the lowest incomes did fall from
4.1% in 1970 to 3.9% in 1990 (after reaching 4.2% in 1980),
and the share of income received by the middle three
quintiles fell from 52.7% in 1970 to 49.5% in 1990. At the
same time, the quintile of households with the highest
incomes rose relatively rapidly during the 1970s and 1980s,
with their share of income rising from 43.3% in 1970 to 46.6%
in 1990.
   The data do offer the surface appearance of a "most
fortunate fifth." But appearances are deceiving. Census
Bureau data reveal that the real mean incomes (adjusted only
for inflation by the CPI-X) of every quintile of households
trended upward during the 1970s and 1980s. These data alone
indicate that it is grossly misleading to suggest that
changes in the income distribution were "seismic" or that the
poor as a group got poorer, or that only the "most fortunate
fifth" gained over the past decade or two.
   Critics of the changing income distribution delight in
comparing current real household income of quintiles with the
1970s peak achieved in 1973, prior to the first oil-supply
shock that helped throttle income growth for the rest of the
decade. They stress that the real income of the lowest two
quintiles fell between 1973 and the late 1980s, rarely noting
the flaw in the price index or the need to make other
adjustments for decreasing household size and increasing
nonwage benefits. In addition, the relatively strong growth
in real household income in the middle and late 1980s is
never mentioned, mainly because such an acknowledgement
undercuts the simplistic claim that the downward trend was
all Ronald Reagan's fault.
   The average incomes of the lowest two quintiles of
households rose a modest 4.7% and 4%, respectively, between
1973 and 1989 (just before the current recession) using the
CPI-X as the deflator. And that's without even making other
adjustments. However, between 1983 and 1989 the average
income of the lowest quintile rose 11.1%, while the average
income of the second quintile rose 10.1%. The average income
of the middle quintile expanded by 10.7% and the fourth
quintile by 11.6% in the 1983-89 period.
   Granted, the average real income of the top quintile rose
by much more, 18.8%, but it is naive to assume that the top
quintile is an exclusive club. It in fact comprises changing
collections of households with changing collections of
household members operating on continually changing
conditions. A student in the early 1980s, for example, had
jumped several quintiles by the end of the decade simply by
taking his first job or by marrying someone with an income.
The very limited research done on the subject suggests that a
sizable share -- surely a third and possibly half -- of the
households in the top quintile at the end of the 1980s were
in a lower quintile in earlier years.
   Moreover, the nature of the quintiles of households
ensures that the top quintile often grows more rapidly than
the lower ones. People in the top quintile who increase their
productivity and hours of work, marry (or stay married), and
decide to have a nonworking family member go to work (and 83%
of the households in the top quintile have two or more income
earners, far higher than the lower quintiles) automatically
raise their quintile's mean household income. These people
cannot move to a higher category.
   People in any of the lower quintiles who do the same can
easily move up one or more quintiles, increasing their own
welfare but, in the process, reducing the mean income of
their former quintile.
   Overall, the critics have been right in stressing that the
rich have gotten richer, but they are way off base to suggest
that the rich were always rich during the 1980s, or that they
became richer at the expense of the rest of the population,
or that their riches were all ill-gotten or undeserved. It is
far more accurate to say that in the 1980s many rich and
not-so-rich Americans got richer faster than other Americans.
Some Americans in all quintiles fell behind. Both ends of the
income distribution were contributing to the economic
improvement of the other. Income growth was trickling in all
directions, not just down or up the income distribution.
   Clearly, the country has experienced a host of economic
problems over the past two decades, of which decreasing real
wages for some groups is one of the more important. While the
available data do not permit an exact determination of how
many Americans lost economic ground during the past two
decades, it is clear that critics have grossly exaggerated
the economic hardship visited on the vast majority of
Americans. Furthermore, the critics don't seem to realize
that many of the observed changes in real wages have been
instructive. They have caused many people to learn from their
experience and to take corrective action -- without
directives from Washington.
   ---
   Mr. McKenzie is a professor of management at the
University of California, Irvine. His study, "The
`Fortunate-Fifth' Fallacy," is soon to be released by the
Center for the Study of American Business at Washington
University in St. Louis.