REVIEW  OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   Feeding the Octopus
Foreign donors have taken heroic but futile measures to
keep the distribution process as honest as possible. EC and
Red Cross officials furiously deny that massive amounts of
aid are going astray, but some Western experts have estimated
that as much as 90% of the aid is misdirected, and Russians
tend to say that government aid in particular gets stolen.
   Charitable donors are dismayed of course, but these gifts
are as much politics as charity. Food is being channeled to
politically sensitive Moscow and St. Petersburg to head off
any unrest. Russian politicians complain that the aid props
up the current city administrations at the expense of the
political opposition, and they are right.
   The intent is not so much to fend off starvation as to
lower black-market prices by boosting supply. On one level,
then, it doesn't matter if the donations are stolen,
providing they hit the market either through official or
private channels. The effect on the market price is the same.
   But apparently Russian black marketeers, like
protectionists in capitalist nations, are trying to do what
they can to keep prices from dropping. Consider the curious
recent episode over a British beef shipment. Britain donated
120 tons of beef as part of a food package from the European
Community. Russian bureaucrats blocked the shipment on the
trumped-up grounds that it might have madcow disease. EC
officials issued assurances that the beef was safe, but the
Russian officials still wouldn't let the shipment through.
Soldiers who had been charged with offloading the meat
started stealing it, and armed police had to be called.
   The best explanation for certain Russian officials'
intense desire to keep out foreign beef was implied in a
recent editorial in Komsomolskaya Pravda: "Everyone knows
that the primary goal of the massive shipments of meat
products from Western Europe was to bring down prices on the
black market. Let those who are well-versed in logic make
their own conclusions."
   Normal black marketeers are proto-capitalists. But the
former party bureaucrats who are stealing aid shipments are
not. As long as functionaries can make a good living selling
stolen aid they won't have to think about getting a real job
in a privatized shop.
   In this way, foreign-aid shipments act as a life-support
system for the former nomenklatura. Here as elsewhere in the
world, foreign-aid programs -- which should really be termed
government-to-government transfers -- only strengthen a
corrupt apparatus, which must perish if a marketplace is to
develop.
   If you think that food riots are just around the corner,
maybe it is worthwhile to continue the food aid, even if it
means temporarily boosting the nomenklatura. But we're not so
sure that civic unrest is as big a threat in the two flagship
cities as it has been made out to be.
   Reports out of Moscow since the price liberalization have
of course focused on the most dramatic complaints. But in the
large cities there is a good understanding that
liberalization is a necessary ordeal. Most people have
several months of supplies laid up; often they have sheds of
home-grown vegetables in the countryside. The barter system
is still in place, so the ruble price rises don't pack a
devastating wallop. The inflation rate was already 450% a
year in any case. The army alone is said to have enough grain
to feed the entire Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS)
for three years, if Mr. Yeltsin can get his hands on it.
   The Western conundrum is how to make sure the people are
fed while the octopus -- the parasitic apparatus -- starves.
Cutting off aid may be necessary. Perhaps aid programs
controlled by foreigners from start to finish, culminating in
Western supermarkets in Moscow, would work if given political
sanction.
   But as long as the most sought after jobs in Moscow are
customs inspector, airport baggage handler and import license
official, we will know that there is a lot more to the
problem of feeding the former Soviets than simply shipping
them food.