Swing Votes:
   Many '88 Bush Backers
   Appear Up for Grabs
   This Time Around
   ---
   Middle-of-Roaders Are Irked
   By President but Find
   Democrats Lacking, Too
   ---
   A Michigan Group Sounds Off
   ----
   By Rich Jaroslovsky
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Mr. Bis is far from alone in his frustration. A new
nationwide Wall Street Journal/NBC News poll shows that many
former Bush voters have slipped their moorings and are now,
in political terms, floating free. But they can't find a
comfortable home with the Democrats either.
   These voters are looking for someone decisive, with strong
views on the economy. They also want a candidate who
addresses the issues important to them out of genuine
concern, rather than a crass attempt to seek votes.
"Someone," says 29-year-old secretary Denise Stump, "needs to
take a stand and make a move." But by and large, these voters
aren't finding anyone in the current crop of candidates who
measures up.
   Many voters have major unanswered questions about the two
Democratic frontrunners, former Massachusetts Sen. Paul
Tsongas and, especially, Arkansas Gov. Bill Clinton, and thus
could still move back into the GOP fold by November. Still,
the poll shows that only three in 10 voters nationwide think
George Bush comes very close to what they are looking for in
a president.
   "The Republicans are looking for a message, while the
Democrats are looking for a messenger," conclude Democratic
pollster Peter Hart and Republican pollster Vince Breglio,
who conducted the survey for the Journal and NBC. "So far,
they don't feel like they're getting either."
   To further explore the views that lie behind the poll
numbers, The Wall Street Journal early this week brought
together Mr. Bis, Ms. Stump and about a dozen of their
neighbors in this pleasant city of 80,000, home to Upjohn
Co., a sprawling General Motors Corp. plant and Western
Michigan University.
   The group, first convened for the Journal by pollster Hart
last October, is heavily weighted toward the kind of
middle-of-the-road swing voters who are likely to decide this
year's election. What's more, these voters will have to make
a choice soon: Michigan goes to the polls in only 11 days, on
March 17, and they must decide in which party's primary, and
for whom, they will vote.
   Their concerns about President Bush are inextricably
linked to their fears about the economy. Though Kalamazoo's
unemployment rate is among the lowest in this
recession-battered state, local residents are fearful of what
the future may bring, especially in light of GM's massive
planned layoffs. Even those who haven't been thrown out of
work "have got to worry whether it's your job tomorrow, or
your neighbor's job tomorrow," says Don Warren, a 53-year-old
Michigan Bell technician.
   Their attitudes, combined with the numbers from the poll,
explain a lot about the confused nature of the races in both
parties. While Mr. Bush struggles to shake free of a
significant protest vote for conservative commentator Patrick
Buchanan, the Democratic race is a muddle with no clear
favorite.
   The so-called "squeezed middle" group of voters provides
the key to the race so far. These people, middle-income
independent voters and 1988 Bush Democrats, make up about 18%
of the electorate, and 82% of them voted for Mr. Bush last
time. In the new Journal/NBC poll, however, only 29%
currently think they definitely or probably will vote for the
president, while 44% say they are inclined to vote for a
Democrat and 27% are undecided.
   Among all voters in the poll, 42% say they are inclined to
vote for the Democrat, 41% for Mr. Bush. The president still
defeats all the specific Democratic candidates currently in
the race when matched in head-to-head trial heats. But only a
little more than half of the people who say they plan to vote
for him say it's because they think he's the best man for the
job; three in 10 say they back Mr. Bush because none of the
Democrats look any better.
   In fact, among Democrats and independents, only 22% say
they are even "fairly satisfied" with the current crop of
Democratic candidates. Seventeen percent say they find one of
the principal contenders for the nomination, Mr. Clinton, to
be "unacceptable."
   Nor do the Democrats do much for the voters in the
Kalamazoo group. Even with the Michigan primary looming, the
level of knowledge these folks have about the candidates
isn't high. The controversies over Mr. Clinton's alleged
marital infidelity and the manner in which he avoided being
drafted during the Vietnam war are all many know about him.
They also know -- and like -- the fact that Mr. Tsongas has a
specific, detailed economic proposal. But they have
relatively little idea of what's in it, or of what kind of
person he is.
   Their views about Gov. Clinton in particular suggest the
heavy baggage he will carry if he has to win over these swing
voters as the Democratic nominee.
   Part of Mr. Clinton's problem is his handling of the
charges by a former cabaret singer who claims a 12-year
affair with him. "I would not choose him because I feel like
I couldn't trust him," says Lynne Hawthorne, a 46-year-old
floral designer and a political independent. Why? "Because of
the way he evaded the issue, the way he was kind of wimpy
about it, kind of mealy-mouthed. He never said yes or no. He
just skirted the issue."
   But a bigger problem for Mr. Clinton may be the draft
issue. "I agree it was a bad war," but Mr. Clinton "should
have gone along with his country," says Edith Pontius, a
57-year-old homemaker and a political independent who voted
for Mr. Bush last time but now is undecided.
   "The fact that he was thinking about his political career
back in '69 at age 23 -- that didn't sit right with me,
making his decision based on that," says John Whitman, a
38-year-old hospital worker and a Democrat. Mr. Whitman, who
joined the Navy so he wouldn't be drafted, has "no problem"
with Mr. Clinton's stand on the war itself. "My problem is
that he wasn't totally honest about it."
   Others in the group, though, defend the former Arkansas
governor -- even Dawne Washburn, an independent who voted for
Mr. Bush four years ago and is now intrigued with Mr.
Tsongas. "Vietnam was something that divided the nation,"
says the 43-year-old accountant. "After this length of time
to bring up something like that is not right."
   Ironically, it is President Bush who makes Mr. Tsongas
appealing to some of these Kalamazoo voters. They remain so
angry that the president broke his promise of "no new taxes"
that they are wary -- almost cynical -- about any candidate's
promises. Mr. Tsongas, with his "I'm not running for Santa
Claus" pitch, gets credit for leveling with the voters when
he states his opposition to the kind of middle-class tax cut
that might benefit several of them.
   "He's sticking with issues," says Peggy Tower, a
32-year-old Bush Democrat and mother of three who recently
went back to school. "He's saying, `Hey, look, this is the
way it's going to be, this is what I'm going to do.'"
   But there are doubts about Mr. Tsongas as well; several in
the group simply have a hard time imagining him sitting in
the Oval Office. Kathleen Patti, a 42-year-old artist and
framer who went Republican four years ago but is now
independent, says she might vote for him, but "I'm still kind
of skeptical. He doesn't seem to have a lot of experience and
leadership."
   Adds Mr. Bis, the man who says he'd sooner vote for Donald
Duck than the GOP: "He just doesn't impress me. He's just as
bad as the Republicans."
   The anger these voters feel over Mr. Bush's broken promise
on taxes comes through clearly in the nationwide Journal/NBC
poll: By 52% to 43%, voters say they "still have doubts and
reservations" over Mr. Bush's action. And a staggering 86%
say they wouldn't believe a candidate who promises he won't
raise taxes.
   Mr. Clinton's problems were also evident in the poll, with
one voter in three saying the fact that a candidate sought to
avoid the draft in the Vietnam war would disqualify him from
the presidency in their minds. Nearly one-quarter also regard
an extramarital affair as a disqualifying factor. And about
four in 10 say they still have doubts and reservations over
the specific allegations concerning Mr. Clinton. By contrast,
only one in 20 say the fact that a candidate had cancer in
the past, as is the case with Mr. Tsongas, would cost him
their vote; 79% say questions about his health have been
answered to their satisfaction.
   For Mr. Bush and the Republicans, the biggest worry is
voters like Mr. Warren, the Michigan Bell technician and
Democrat. Four years ago, he voted for Mr. Bush. Four months
ago, he was disillusioned with the president but figured he'd
still wind up voting for him come November. Now he says he
could well vote Democratic. "I got to go with somebody that's
going to try to keep the jobs," he says.
   Ever since the New Hampshire primary, President Bush has
said he understands and empathizes with the economic distress
many Americans are feeling. But many people here think Mr.
Bush still doesn't get it, and that he is saying he cares out
of political expediency.
   "I don't think he's gotten the message," says Ms.
Hawthorne, the floral designer. "Someone can say, `I've got
the message,' but you don't have the message until you walk
around in their shoes. There's no way he can feel what we
feel."
   One of Mr. Bush's problems is that the further he moves to
the right to placate followers of Mr. Buchanan, the more he
risks alienating these moderate swing voters, who think some
of Mr. Buchanan's hard-line views will divide the nation.
"Pat Buchanan has frozen his ability to do something," says
Richard Emmons, a 40-year-old sales representative who leans
toward voting Democratic this year.
   The Kalamazoo voters' concerns about Mr. Bush and their
own economic well-being are reflected in the Journal/NBC
poll, which found voters by 72% to 23% disapprove of the
president's handling of the economy. By 41% to 36%, voters
feel they are worse off now than they were four years ago,
and two-thirds aren't confident that life for their
children's generation will be better than for their own.
   Voters in the Journal/NBC poll also share the Kalamazoo
residents' belief that Mr. Bush, despite his protestations,
still doesn't understand their concerns. By 52% to 43%, they
believe the president "does not understand the message" they
are sending, and despite the president's recent focus on the
economy, 55% still say he isn't talking about issues that
matter to them.
   Fifty-four percent of all voters -- and more than six in
10 of the swing group -- agree with the statement that Mr.
Bush hasn't provided leadership on issues such as the economy
and health and is blaming the Democrats "as an excuse for not
doing his job."
   Among the Kalamazoo discussion-group participants, it is
Ms. Washburn who neatly captures their bemusement over the
confusing state of national politics. The president, she
says, "hasn't lost my vote 100%; if I had to vote right
today, I would probably vote for George Bush." But she
quickly notes that when the group last met four months ago,
"I said I would probably vote for Bush again {if} the
Democrats put up, say, another Dukakis -- and here I am,
considering Tsongas from Massachusetts."
   Adds Ms. Patti, somewhat wistfully: "I was hoping that
there would be someone I could just look at and say, `That's
the guy I've been waiting for.'"