Commodities:
   Pork-Belly Futures Prices Plummet After Rally
   Late Wednesday; Cash Market Also Weakens
   ----
   By Jeffrey Taylor
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The late rally was based on anticipation that the weekly
cold-storage report, due out after trading ended Wednesday,
would show a higher than previously expected outward movement
of pork bellies from storage.
   This proved to be correct. The U.S. Agriculture Department
report showed net outward movement of 1,530,000 pounds of
pork bellies, far higher than analysts' expectations of
500,000 to 1.3 million pounds.
   But the number wasn't enough to sustain prices in trading
yesterday. The May contract plunged 1.82 cents, just shy of
the daily two-cent limit, to settle at 36.92 cents a pound.
   Analysts said yesterday's decline may signal that the
price rally in pork markets over the past few days, having
failed to top 40 cents a pound, may have run its course.
"Despite the numbers in the cold-storage report, I think the
perception changed yesterday," said Dan Vaught, livestock
analyst for A.G. Edwards  Sons Inc., St. Louis. "Now
expectations are that bellies will be moving into storage
this week."
   The market also was hampered by weakness on the cash
market for pork bellies, which are uncured bacon. Prices on
most cash markets fell about one cent a pound yesterday.
   The selling also indicated traders' disappointment that
the Bush administration hasn't yet approved a food-aid
package shipping large quantities of U.S. pork to Russia,
despite a long period of rumors to that effect, said Mark
Stevens, livestock analyst for Cargill Investor Services,
Chicago.
   Traders are awaiting the monthly USDA cold-storage report,
which is due out after trading today. Some analysts think the
report will show record net inward movement into storage
during January. But they don't expect much immediate impact
on futures prices unless the report's numbers are
surprisingly high.
   Another factor likely to exert downward pressure on pork
futures prices over the next few days is the pork-processing
industry's recent lack of profitability. Meat packers have
been losing money lately because of high cash prices for hogs
and may balk at paying the high prices if demand for pork
doesn't improve.
   Partly because of this situation, the price of the hog
contract for April delivery fell 0.67 cents yesterday to
41.17 cents a pound.
   In other commodity markets yesterday:
                                                                                                       

   ENERGY: Crude oil futures settled higher in moderate
trading. In the absence of market-moving news since last
week's meeting of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries, traders saw yesterday's rise as a mild technical
adjustment. Pessimism about OPEC members' ability to abide by
a production-cutting agreement they reached last weekend
lopped $1.34 a barrel off March crude this week. Traders
indicate the market has now psychologically adjusted to the
OPEC news. Crude oil contracts for March delivery rose 13
cents yesterday, settling at $18.54 on the New York
Mercantile Exchange. April crude rose three cents, settling
at $18.74. Some traders said the higher price didn't reflect
strength in the market so much as a strategy by some buyers
to take advantage of current low crude prices to cover
refining needs for the next few months. Heating oil rose, but
not as much as some expected after an American Petroleum
Institute report that inventories have begun to drop from
high levels seen earlier this winter. Heating oil contracts
for March rose 0.34 cent a gallon, settling at 52.84 cents.
April prices rose 0.32 cent a gallon, settling at 52.63
cents.
                                                                                                       

   COFFEE: Futures prices rose. Coffee for March delivery
ended at 69.2 cents a pound, up 2.4 cents. The actively
traded May contract rose 1.6 cents to 71.9 cents. Guillermo
Sarmiento, president of Sarmiento Group, a Miami-based
consultant, attributed the rise to the issuance of fewer
delivery notices than expected yesterday, which was the first
day sellers of March coffee contracts can present notices of
their intention to deliver coffee. About 220 notices were
issued, rather than the 4,000 to 5,000 that some traders had
expected, Mr. Sarmiento said. Major dealers apparently aren't
willing to let go of their coffee now, perhaps in
anticipation of greater roaster demand later, he said. Prices
might rise a further two or three cents in a "bear-market
rally," he said, but will then run into producer selling and
"get hammered again."
                                                                                                       

   ORANGE JUICE: Futures took a breather yesterday after
rising sharply last week and then tumbling early this week.
March orange juice ended at $1.4190, down 0.05 cent; the
actively traded May contract finished 0.15 cent lower at
$1.3885. Stephen Platt, vice president of Dean Witter in
Chicago, attributed last week's sharp price rise to
short-covering and this week's decline to uncertainty about
the size of Brazil's next crop. Traders cover their short
positions, or bets that prices will decline, by buying
offsetting contracts. Mr. Platt said he has heard several
estimates of Brazil's crop, ranging from 225 million to 262
million boxes. Most people expect the crop to come in at the
upper end of the range, he said, but there's enough
uncertainty "to make it a rather nervous market." Perceptions
of rather tight supplies in the current crop will help
strengthen prices, he predicted.