World Wire
   ----
   Compiled by Richard L. Holman
Financial, transport and other service companies may
register their trademarks in Japan under revised legislation
that goes into effect April 1.
   The revision is intended to respond to complaints,
particularly from foreigners, that Japan lacks legal
protection for trademarks of service companies.
   Registrations for companies wishing to distinguish their
services by use of a trademark will be administered by the
Patent Office, affiliated with the Ministry of International
Trade and Industry.
   The Tokyo High Court upheld an appeal by New York-based
Major League Baseball Properties Inc., overturning a ruling
that rejected use of the firm's "Dodgers" trademark for
confectionary, given a similar trademark on file. The company
administers all intellectual property rights of U.S. Major
League Baseball teams.
                                                                                                       

   SOUTH AFRICANS ABROAD MAY VOTE
                                                                                                       

   In South Africa's unprecedented referendum on democratic
reform next Tuesday, South Africans who are temporarily
abroad may cast absentee ballots for the first time ever. The
balloting today and tomorrow in the U.S. will be conducted at
South African embassies and consulates. President F.W. de
Klerk called the referendum to decide whether to continue his
program of dismantling the apartheid system of racial
segregation.
                                                                                                       

   JAPAN WINS TUNA CONCESSION
                                                                                                       

   Tokyo wrested a major concession at a wildlife conference
when Sweden withdrew its proposal to ban trade in bluefin
tuna, after Japan, Canada, the U.S. and Morocco pledged to
cut their bluefin quotas. Japan accounts for 40% of global
consumption of bluefin tuna, prized for sushi. Also at the
meeting on trade in endangered species, Zimbabwe, Namibia,
Botswana and Malawi failed to win eased rules on trading in
elephant meat and hides. In return, they had proposed to
continue a voluntary ivory-trading moratorium, which they
hinted they now might ignore. Delegates also refused to ease
curbs on trade in rhinoceros horns, considered an aphrodisiac
in Asia.
                                                                                                       

   EC COURT UPHOLDS CARTEL FINES
                                                                                                       

   The European Court of Justice largely upheld heavy fines
on seven chemical companies for having operated a polyvinyl
chloride cartel. Three of the firms that challenged the
European Community Commission fines won small reductions from
the court. A lower EC court had ruled that the commission
failed to follow proper procedures. That decision last month
had raised the prospect, now moot, that hundreds of EC
decisions could be challenged.

   CHINA TO REFORM CIVIL SERVICE
                                                                                                       

   China vowed to gain control of its sprawling civil service
by 1995, as part of a drive to reinvigorate economic reforms,
Chinese newspapers said. Beijing will slash its lumbering and
inefficient institutions, perhaps cutting 15% of jobs; grade
civil servants, and overhaul pay. Trying to eliminate
subsidies that have run up budget deficits, Beijing declared
war this year on guaranteed lifetime employment and social
benefits, protection from dismissals and demotions, and
payment of salary no matter whether a worker shows up.
                                                                                                       

   BONN'S JOB-CREATION PROGRAMS
                                                                                                       

   The Bonn Economics Ministry's "Upswing East" program has
created 308,590 federally funded jobs in eastern Germany. An
additional 389,860 eastern Germans were enrolled at the end
of last year in job-creation programs run by the Federal
Labor Office. Thus, 698,450 people in the east were employed
through make-work government jobs. Upswing East is part of
efforts to rebuild the economy of formerly communist eastern
Germany.
                                                                                                       

   MANILA'S STRUGGLE LAUDED
                                                                                                       

   When global aid donors meet in Hong Kong this week,
President Corazon Aquino's administration will receive high
marks for economic reform, even though the Philippine economy
shrank last year.
   The annual meeting, hosted by the World Bank, will assess
the Multilateral Assistance Initiative, launched by the U.S.
in 1989 to help Philippine democracy recover from Marcos-era
corruption and mismanagement. After nearly $7 billion of aid,
the Philippines has the highest inflation and the lowest
economic growth among Southeast Asia's non-socialist
economies. Its 1991 performance was the worst since Mrs.
Aquino took office in February 1986.
   The initiative seeks to foster an economic environment
that encourages private investment and trade. On that score,
Manila's results are meager. New foreign investment in last
year's first 11 months totaled $623 million, a fraction of
the sums attracted by the Philippines' neighbors.
   Nonetheless, the World Bank intends to credit Mrs. Aquino
with gradually implementing politically tough but
economically crucial reforms that will begin to pay off after
May's general election. World Bank and private economists
praise Manila's liberalized investment and foreign-exchange
controls, lower import duties, tax collection improvements,
reduced energy-price subsidies and a debt-restructuring pact
with commercial creditors.
                                                                                                       

   POSTSCRIPTS . . .
                                                                                                       

   Most of Spain's 16,000 customs agents stayed off their
jobs for a second day. Strikers want compensation for jobs to
be lost when the European Community drops border checks Jan.
1. . . . In Greece, more than 200,000 public-sector workers
began a two-day strike over the government's proposed wage
freezes to cut debt and inflation. The walkout shut down
trains, state-controlled banks, post offices, utilities, tax
collections and customs services.