Amex to Cut
   Some Card Fees
   For Merchants
   ---
   Move Is Aimed at Stemming
   Business Dissatisfaction
   Over High Cost Levels
   ----
   By Peter Pae
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Mr. Golub's remarks were made as American Express
struggles with disgruntled merchants who, pinched by the
recession, have complained that the service fee is too high
and have threatened to drop the card while also urging
customers to use other credit cards whose merchant fees are
lower. The fee, known as the discount rate, is levied each
time a customer makes a purchase with a card. On a charge
card, the full amount of customer charges must be paid back
in full each month, or a late fee is imposed. With credit
cards, only a portion of total debt has to be paid each
month.
   Mr. Golub said American Express would "lower the discount
rate" that merchants pay on each card transaction where "the
value" of accepting American Express "is not present."
   He later explained in an interview and at a news
conference that a merchant's fees would be determined by how
much of its total revenues come from American Express
card-related business. A merchant with a lower than industry
average charge volume might qualify for a lower discount
rate. At the same time, however, merchants with significantly
higher than industry average charge volume might have to pay
higher fees, he said.
   "American Express now has a pricing strategy that reflects
economic reality," Mr. Golub said. The company, he explained,
had surveyed its merchant base to construct an
industry-by-industry revenue profile.
   To qualify for a lower rate, a merchant must submit its
revenues for comparison with its industry average. American
Express fees are one-to-two percentage points higher than its
credit card rivals, Visa U.S.A. or MasterCard International,
which charge merchants about two percent of the purchase
amount.
   While American Express appears to be addressing merchant
complaints, it is unclear how widespread the rate cuts will
be. In effect, it is gambling that it can continue to justify
the higher rates to a vast majority of the merchants while
having to lower the rates for some.
   In an expression of confidence in its latest strategy, an
American Express spokeswoman said if the card didn't bring in
an "incremental" increase in business for the merchant, "he
should question accepting it." At the same time, American
Express is hoping that it can further justify its higher
rates by concentrating even more on launching joint marketing
efforts with merchants and improving services it provides
them.
   Merchant fees are a critical part of American Express's
earnings. About $3.5 billion, or more than half of last
year's revenues from the flagship card business, was
generated from fees charged to more than 1.7 million
merchants. The remainder of those revenues came from various
fees and finance charges.
   In his speech before 2,000 travel agents and about 100
travel company officials from around the world, Mr. Golub
acknowledged American Express fees are too high for some
merchants. "Our value wasn't high enough to justify our
premium price," he said.
   American Express couldn't ignore a dangerous trend among
disgruntled merchants, who rather than dropping the card
outright, have been encouraging customers to use other cards.
Although American Express officials have denied that
suppression of the card has hurt its business, the $3.54
billion in revenues from merchant fees in 1991 was slightly
behind year-earlier $3.59 billion.
   In response, American Express has in recent months taken a
heavy hand against businesses that in hopes of negotiating
for better rates dissuaded customers from using American
Express cards. On the eve of the busiest Christmas sales
weekend last year, the company dropped clothing retailer
Laura Ashley Holdings PLC for discouraging a customer from
using an American Express card. Laura Ashley had also been
negotiating for a lower rate.
   American Express is evidently hoping that the latest
announcement will lessen merchant dissatisfaction. Indeed,
Richard Carrick, a travel director of resort operator Club
Med Inc. said American Express, by indicating more
flexibility with merchants, is "heading in the right
direction." Several other travel company officials agreed.
   But not all merchants were satisfied. Some maintain that
the rate cuts should be made across the board.
   The importance to American Express of the travel industry,
which accounts for two-thirds of its card revenues, was seen
in the attention showered upon it by Mr. Golub and other
American Express officials, including Chairman James D.
Robinson III. In his speech to the group, Mr. Robinson said
American Express was renewing its emphasis on its "strength
as a travel-related company."
   Mr. Robinson's comments underscore the company's plan to
pull back from other businesses it has entered, but in which
it hasn't been especially successful. These include life
insurance and real estate investments.
   Mr. Golub added that future promotions would place greater
emphasis on issuance of cards for business personnel. Also,
he said the company would increase its number of
travel-related offices around the world.
   At the same time, Mr. Golub said American Express plans to
scrap previous efforts to sign up as many card holders as
possible. Instead, the company would concentrate on boosting
profits by promoting more usage among its existing customers.
As a result, Mr. Golub said the number of card accounts it
loses will rise in the near term. "But by increasing loyalty
and reducing the number of unprofitable cardmembers, we
expect to lower operating and credit costs."