International:
   Mexico Seeks
   To Curb Banks,
   Brokers of U.S.
   ---
   Trade-Talks Stance Includes
   Ban Until '98 on Units;
   Canadians Affected Too
   ----
   By Dianna Solis
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
"Financial services is proving to be one of the difficult
chapters to get concessions," said a U.S. source familiar
with the Dallas negotiations.
   At the anti-drug summit in Texas with Latin American
leaders, President Bush met yesterday with Mexican President
Carlos Salinas de Gortari and trade negotiators for both
countries. Although Mr. Bush said that no breakthroughs had
been reached on the trade talks, he reiterated that his
administration will press for a free-trade pact as soon as
possible. A senior U.S. official later said the two
presidents had directed that the negotiations be accelerated.
   While the Mexican position on financial services dates
back to early December, few concessions in that area have
been won by American negotiators, sources from both sides
said. For example, Mexico is still asking for temporary
exclusion from the Glass-Steagall Act, a U.S. law that
separates retail banking from investment banking and
securities selling. Mexico has adopted European-style
universal banking, which allows financial holding companies
to operate investment banks, retail banks, brokerages and
insurance firms, thus capitalizing on their common client
lists. The U.S. Congress is considering reforming this area
of banking law.
   The Mexican negotiating stance on financial services was
first published in El Financiero, Mexico's financial daily,
and the Mexico City News, an English-language daily. The leak
follows a letter-writing campaign to U.S. Treasury Secretary
Nicholas Brady, urging greater trade opportunities, from such
unhappy U.S. groups and companies as the American Bankers
Association, the Securities Industry Association, Citicorp,
American Express Co. and Dean Witter Reynolds Inc.
   A copy of the Mexican draft shows that Mexico is proposing
the gradual entry of U.S. and Canadian financial firms into
the Mexican market between 1998 and 2010. Even after that,
foreign presence would be limited. The draft chapter also
proposes initially limiting an individual subsidiary's total
capital, or assets minus liabilities, to 0.5% of capital of
all financial institutions of that type.
   Separately, Mexican Treasury Undersecretary Guillermo
Ortiz said Mexico's newly privatized banks need time to
consolidate before facing competition. Since last year Mexico
has auctioned 11 of the 18 state-owned banks. It restricts
each foreign investor to 5% ownership and total foreign
holdings to 30%.
   Dr. Ortiz said Canada's negotiators seem more
understanding of Mexico's position. "I don't know if {Mexican
banks} could get killed, but it would seem that they need
time to adjust," he said.
   Likewise, Alan J. Stoga, a senior associate at U.S.
consulting firm Kissinger  Associates, agreed that Mexico
has a "legitimate problem" with restructuring its financial
system.
   U.S. brokerage houses are particularly eager to expand
their presence in Mexico. They are currently forbidden, as
are retail banks, from "deposit-taking" in Mexico. But many
U.S. brokers visit Mexican clients regularly and increased
their business here during the 1980s, years of massive
Mexican capital flight.
   No U.S. brokerage firms operate subsidiaries in Mexico.
But several Mexican brokers have offices in the U.S.,
soliciting clients into Mexico's booming stock market.
   Citicorp is the exception to the Mexican ban on
deposit-taking and loan-making. After the 1982 bank
nationalization, Citicorp was grandfathered in and continues
to offer retail services in Mexico.
   Meanwhile, a Washington research group estimated that the
North American free-trade pact could give the U.S. a net gain
of 130,000 jobs and improve the U.S. trade balance by $10
billion a year. Although many low-skilled jobs will be lost,
the accord could generate more high-skilled ones because of
its stimulus to sales of U.S. high-technology products, the
Institute of International Economics said. But the institute
warned that as many as 112,000 U.S. workers could be
displaced by imports from Mexico, and urged the U.S. to
commit at least $900 million over five years to retrain them.