Marketing  Media -- Advertising:
   Olympics Ambush Strategies Spur Debate
   ----
   By Joanne Lipman
"It's just too easy" to ambush official Olympic sponsors,
says Stephen Disson, a Washington-based sports marketing
consultant. He represents a number of official Olympic
sponsors, including at least four that are targets of
apparent ambush attempts: McDonald's (being ambushed by
Subway), Eastman Kodak (targeted by Fuji), the U.S. Postal
Service (fending off Federal Express), and Visa.
   The ambush controversy has become so highly charged that
the U.S. Olympic Committee may change the way it sells
sponsorships for future games, a top committee official said.
John Krimsky Jr., deputy secretary general, said in an
interview from the Winter Games site in Albertville, France,
that he hoped new policies will be in place by 1996, when the
summer games will be held in Atlanta.
   If the Olympic committee is to continue demanding hefty
prices from sponsors, it must "meet the need of exclusivity
for sponsors," Mr. Krimsky said. His goal, he added, is to
"eliminate any confusion in the public's mind" over who is
the real Olympic sponsor.
   But companies accused of ambush marketing warned that any
attempts to rein them in could backfire. None of them admit
to intentional ambushing -- but virtually all defend their
right to use Olympic-style imagery in ads.
   "It's far-fetched if the Olympics is trying to put a lock
on athletes," says a spokesman for Federal Express. Though
the courier concern denies trying to ambush the U.S. Postal
Service, its campaign for its new Expressfreighter foreign
delivery service looks as Olympian as any Postal Service ads.
As sprinters race from the starting block, a voice-over
intones, "In a year when the world will watch records fall .
. . why not set a few of our own."
   American Express also denies ambushing Visa, saying its
ads are merely correcting mistruths spread by Visa ads which
crow that the Olympics "don't take American Express."
Yesterday, American Express lashed out against both Visa and
the IOC, calling on the IOC to stop Visa's "misleading" ads.
   "If anyone has `ambushed' the Olympics, it is Visa, and I
ask you to put a halt to their odious campaign," wrote Harvey
Golub, American Express president, in a letter to Richard
Pound, an IOC official who had earlier threatened legal
action against American Express.
   In an interview, Mr. Golub said that American Express
would never have launched its campaign in the first place if
Visa hadn't attacked it first. But he also defended his
company's right to use Olympic imagery. "If in the month of
February we couldn't do advertising with a sports figure --
if we {couldn't run} a `do you know me' campaign with
Jean-Claude Killy," the former Olympian and currently
co-president of the Olympics organizing committee, he said,
"that would be a stretch that would boggle the mind of a
Talmudic scholar."
   The real victims in the ambush-marketing mess will most
certainly be America's athletes, the people who depend on the
sponsorship money for training and support. If the IOC
doesn't crack down on ambush marketing, potential sponsors
could refuse to pay hefty multimillion dollar fees. Yet a
crackdown could lead to a mass defection by the smaller
sponsors who support individual teams. Either route
translates into less money for the athletes.
   Subway, the sandwich chain, for example, sponsors the U.S.
ski and swim teams. It used the connection to fashion a
splashy in-store Olympic promotion, even though McDonald's
paid dearly to be the exclusive fast-food Olympic sponsor. If
Subway wasn't allowed to promote its Olympic connection, "we
would question whether we should support teams" at all, says
Richard Pilchen, vice president of marketing. "It wouldn't be
fair to the teams; they need the funding."
   Similarly, Eastman Kodak is an official Olympic sponsor,
but Fuji is already touting a big advertising campaign based
on its sponsorship of the U.S. track and field team. And
while Chrysler is the official automotive sponsor of the U.S.
Olympic Committee, Subaru sponsors the U.S. ski team and Ford
is an official sponsor of the CBS Olympic broadcast.
   The USOC's Mr. Krimsky insists ambushing is rare and
usually unintentional. But he adds that he hopes to avoid
those kinds of conflicts in the future by consolidating some
of the many kinds of Olympic sponsorships. Right now, one
company may sponsor the USOC, competitors may sponsor the TV
broadcast, and still other competitors may back the
individual teams. Ideally, Mr. Krimsky would like to see a
single company doing everything.
   Whether his ideas will pan out is a big question. Clearly,
though, something's got to change. Concedes Mr. Krimsky, "We
have a much more sophisticated advertising market that has
become increasingly a concern of some of our {Olympic}
sponsors."
   ---
   Rumrill Chairman Quits
                                                                                                       

   Rumrill-Hoyt's chairman and chief executive officer,
Richard S. Thomson, 56 years old, resigned in a clash with
management at parent Saatchi  Saatchi -- a move that may
shake loose Rumrill's showcase account.
   Rumrill, Saatchi's business-to-business advertising unit,
named Timothy Cronin, 46, to succeed Mr. Thomson. Mr. Cronin
is currently executive creative director and senior vice
president, and becomes president and chief executive officer.
William S. Stein continues as executive vice president
overseeing client services at Rumrill, as well as the
world-wide Du Pont account at Saatchi. Rumrill won't name a
new chairman, the agencies said.
   An executive close to the situation said the abrupt
resignation has prompted Eastman Kodak, Rumrill's showcase
client, to begin reviewing its estimated $6 million account,
which is aimed at professional photographers. But a Rumrill
spokesman said the firm's blue-chip clients, including
Eastman Kodak and Du Pont, took the news of Mr. Thomson's
departure "with some surprise but very gracefully and without
any great alarm."
   An associate of Mr. Thomson said Mr. Thomson had gone
through months of disagreement with Saatchi executives over
the movement of accounts and billings from the Rochester,
N.Y., shop to Saatchi  Saatchi Advertising, New York.
Richard O'Brien, Saatchi vice chairman, denied that version
and described the dispute as a "philosophical difference"
involving "confidential strategy." Mr. Thomson didn't return
a call seeking a comment.
   Industry executives said Mr. Thomson resisted Saatchi's
absorbing important Rumrill clients, especially the move of
the estimated $7 million Champion athletic-apparel account in
the fall and some Du Pont billings last month.
   ---
   Ad Note. . . .
                                                                                                       

   UNITED CAMPAIGN: Two orca whales appear to swim through a
water-filled 747 jet in a new, expensive commercial for UAL's
United Airlines from Leo Burnett, Chicago. The 45-second
spot, set to break during Sunday's Olympic coverage,
illustrates the roominess of United's trans-Atlantic flights.
The six-month production, estimated to have cost more than $1
million, included building two mechanical whales and a
455-square-foot model airplane.