Medicine:
   Gene Variation
   Tied to Clogging
   Of the Arteries
   ----
   By Ron Winslow
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The findings are based on autopsy studies of young people
who died of causes unrelated to heart disease. Scientists
used new gene-sleuthing techniques to identify different
forms of a gene for a protein that clears cholesterol from
the bloodstream and then measured the buildup of deposits in
artery samples.
   The researchers found that one genetic variant of the
protein, called apolipoprotein E, or apoE, was linked with an
accumulation of plaque on arteries that was 10% higher than
the most common form of the protein and 39% higher than a
form of the protein that appears to inhibit development of
disease.
   "The study is the first to find the effects of specific
genes on atherosclerosis by looking directly at lesions on
the arteries," said James E. Hixson, associate scientist at
the Southwest Foundation for Biomedical Research, San
Antonio, Texas. He presented findings at a science writers
forum here sponsored by the American Heart Association.
   Heart disease is the nation's leading killer, and
researchers believe a person's risk of developing it and
suffering a heart attack is about half related to genetic
factors and half to lifestyle factors such as diet, smoking
and exercise. Most people -- even those at higher genetic
risk -- can keep progression of the disease at bay, at least
for a while, by quitting smoking, getting exercise and eating
foods low in fat and cholesterol. But except for those with a
strong family history of heart disease, most people don't
know what their genes hold in store for them until they
suffer a heart attack or other manifestation of clogging of
the arteries.
   One tool that could help is a screening test that would
reveal a person's genetic makeup and, based on research such
as Dr. Hixson's, enable doctors to accurately estimate the
prospect for disease well before symptoms arise.
   "We have to be able to make diagnosis of atherosclerosis
earlier," said W. Virgil Brown, president of the heart
association. If doctors could tell people in their 20s or
30s, when a heart attack may be 30 years away, that deposits
in their arteries were two or three times what they ought to
be, he said, then people could take steps to retard or
reverse progress of the disease.
   Heart researchers have long predicted that such a test
will be available, but unlike such illnesses as multiple
sclerosis or cystic fibrosis, where just one or two major
genetic defects are responsible for disease, a complex
cocktail of genetic variations underlies the development of
heart disease. "Eight or 10 years ago, we were naively hoping
that a mutation of two or three genes would spring out of the
woodwork that would explain a large fraction of
cardiovascular risk," says Dr. Jan L. Breslow, director of
biochemical genetics and metabolism at Rockefeller University
in New York. "It's going to be much more complicated."
   Dr. Breslow and other scientists have identified 17
different genes, including the one for apoE, that code for
proteins involved in how the body processes cholesterol, and
researchers are trying to determine which among them most
prominently affect the risk of heart disease. At the same
time, Dr. Breslow notes, genes involved in how the body
processes dietary fat haven't even been identified yet.
   In the study of the apoE gene, Dr. Hixson, a geneticist,
and his colleagues looked at three variations already
identified by other researchers and known as E2, E3, and E4.
By getting one form of the gene from each parent, a person
could have one of six combinations of the variants. About 59%
of the population have the variation E3/E3; 23% have E4/E3
and 12% have E2/E3. The remaining three combinations are
rare, making up the remaining 6% of the population.
   In the study, based on autopsies of 683 men between ages
15 and 34, Dr. Hixson said the extent of fatty deposits on
the surface of arteries in the E4/E3 group averaged 32%,
compared with 29% in the E3/E3 group and 23% in the E2/E3
group. LDL cholesterol levels for E4/E3, the highest risk
group, were 137, compared to 130 for E3/E3 and 114 for E2/E3.
The direct measurement of the arteries confirmed the
association between LDL cholesterol levels and
atherosclerosis.
   Similar data from trials of cholesterol-lowering drugs
suggest that a person with the E4/E3 variant would be at
least 40% more likely to have a heart attack than a person
with an E2/E3 form of the gene, Dr. Breslow said.
   Dr. Hixson's report is from a nationwide project involving
14 centers and known as Pathobiological Determinants of
Atherosclerosis in Youth, or PDAY. Two years ago, PDAY
researchers reported a direct correlation between smoking and
diet and the buildup of lesions in blood vessels.
   The study underscores the fact that heart and related
artery diseases result from biological processes that begin
early in life. Dr. Hixson said the research team is studying
other genes, among several research projects, to help
determine which variations point to increased risk. "We need
to find more genes before there is going to be a really
useful screening test," he said.