Law -- Legal Beat:
   Shearson Deploys Its Legal Staff
   To Stem Tide of Arbitration Cases
   ----
   By Michael Siconolfi and Jonathan M. Moses
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
The lawyers and paralegals are part of new legal and
compliance teams in 13 of Shearson's divisions. The legal
groups will work with Shearson branch managers on ways to
slash legal costs by resolving investor disputes before they
get to arbitration or litigation.
   "Most (legal) claims can be prevented," said David
Robbins, a securities arbitrator and New York lawyer. "What
Shearson is trying to do is cut them off at the pass. It's
really a step in the right direction."
   Shearson, an American Express Co. unit, has been hit with
a disproportionately high level of investor complaints in
recent years. Of 3,000 arbitration cases ruled on involving
Wall Street brokerage firms in a 15-month period through late
1990, for example, 302, or 10%, were against Shearson,
according to the Securities Arbitration Commentator, a
newsletter based in Maplewood, N.J.
   Shearson lost 182 of the cases -- 60% of them -- paying a
total of $15.8 million, the newsletter says. That's far more
than Merrill Lynch  Co., which paid $5.2 million in
arbitration awards during the same period, and Prudential
Insurance Co. of America's Prudential Securities Inc. unit,
which doled out $4.9 million, the newsletter says.
   Shearson says the number of cases filed against it has
fallen roughly 30% in the past year, and that the pace of
awards has slowed, too. The firm hopes that its new legal
efforts, first disclosed in Securities Week, an industry
newsletter, will further reduce such cases and awards.
   "The new structure is consistent with the firm's belief
that the best way to address compliance problems is to
prevent them from happening," a Shearson spokesman said.
   But cooperation between branch managers and lawyers will
be a sticky issue, some lawyers say. "There's an inherent
conflict for branch managers wanting to keep producing
brokers happy and also complying with regulatory concerns,"
said Mr. Robbins.
   ---
   MYERSON CALLS himself the victim of an overzealous
prosecutor.
   Harvey D. Myerson, the New York lawyer charged with
criminally defrauding clients and partners of $3.5 million,
made the statement in opening arguments in federal court in
Brooklyn.
   "I was too uppity, flamboyant; a big, cigar-smoking Jewish
lawyer. I made it and I flaunted it," said Mr. Myerson to the
jury. "I think some of you know what it means to be called
uppity."
   Mr. Myerson was a senior partner in two New York law firms
that collapsed amid much publicity in the late 1980s. Both
law firms, Finley, Kumble, Wagner, Heine, Underberg, Manley,
Myerson  Casey and Myerson  Kuhn, filed for
bankruptcy-court protection, a rarity in the legal
profession.
   Mr. Myerson faces 14 counts of criminal racketeering,
conspiracy and fraud as well as one charge of obstruction of
justice. The indictment, which was handed up last year, is
the result of an investigation that began in 1988, when
Shearson Lehman Hutton Inc. accused Myerson  Kuhn of
overbilling the company by nearly $2 million. Mr. Myerson is
accused of swindling six clients out of $2.5 million and his
former Myerson  Kuhn partners out of $1 million.
   Prosecutor Sean O'Shea, speaking to the jury slowly from
notes, accused Mr. Myerson of turning "a legitimate Park Ave.
law firm into a criminal enterprise."
   Mr. Myerson's opening statement was a mixture of sarcasm
and rage. Pointing at prosecutors and investigators, he
called their actions "sick," and said they wanted to get a
"fat, rich" lawyer. He argued that he stood little to gain
from the alleged fraud and that prosecutors had used
intimidation to get his ex-partners and a former secretary to
testify against him. Mr. Myerson said that the prosecutors
had made deals with several younger partners who he claimed
were responsible for the overbilling. He told the jury that
he had "carried" those partners, paying them $300,000 a year
even though they didn't bring in a dime's worth of business.
   As for the $1 million he allegedly took from the firm, Mr.
Myerson said it was an advance made according to standard
practice among his former partners.
   Mr. Myerson's trial is expected to last six weeks and
involve more than 100 witnesses.
   ---
   LAWYERS CAN BE FORCED to reveal their fees, court rules.
   Maryland's highest court found that lawyers, if
subpoenaed, must disclose the amount of money they received
from individual clients. Such subpoenas by federal and local
narcotics investigators are an increasingly common weapon in
drug prosecutions.
   Although federal courts have allowed subpoenas of fee
information, the recent decision was among the first on a
state appellate level.
   The case arose when state tax investigators tried to
determine the assets of a person who had faced drug charges
and been represented by a Baltimore lawyer. William B.
Moffitt, an Alexandria, Va., attorney who represented the
Baltimore lawyer, argued that fee amounts are protected by
the attorney-client privilege. A lower court judge agreed.
   But the Maryland Court of Appeals, in a 6-1 decision,
ruled that confidentiality doesn't apply when "evidence is
sought from the lawyer through compulsion of law."
   In a 13-page dissent, Judge Robert M. Bell said the
information the state wanted could have been found elsewhere,
such as in bank records. "I believe this decision may be the
beginning of the demise of the attorney-client relationship,"
he wrote.
   The lawyer who was subpoenaed, William H. Murphy Jr., said
courts are responding to public pressure to win the war on
drugs at any price. "They are using the police function to
evade the attorney-client privilege," he said.
   (In recriminal investigation No. 1/242Q, Maryland Court of
Appeals, Annapolis, No. 72)
   ---
   PUBLIC LIBRARIES MAY eject homeless people whose conduct
is offensive.
   A federal appeals court in Philadelphia ruled that a
homeless man's constitutional rights were not violated when a
public library expelled him because he talked loudly to
himself and his body odor impeded the work of patrons and
employees.
   The homeless man, Richard R. Kreimer, sued the Joint Free
Public Library of Morristown and Morris Township, two New
Jersey communities, claiming its patron conduct rule was
vague and therefore violated the Fourteenth Amendment's due
process clause and the state's constitution. Mr. Kreimer
argued that library officials improperly used their own
discretion to ban individuals.
   Mr. Kreimer had become a cause celebre among civil
libertarians and homeless advocates throughout the country.
His supporters argued that if the courts allowed the library
to kick out homeless people, other public places such as
museums, train stations, airports could also limit access.
   Librarians argued that their facilities would be overrun
by homeless people if a ruling, which struck down the patron
code last year, was upheld by the appeals court.
   James Wyse, a partner with Schenck, Price, Smith  King in
Morristown, which represented the library, said the decision
makes clear that the code didn't seek to discriminate against
homeless people, only those who created a nuisance.
   Bruce Rosen, a lawyer with Lowenstein, Sandler, Kohl,
Fisher  Boylan in Roseland, N.J., which represented Mr.
Kreimer, said, "We have to study the decision, before we
decide where we go from here."