Technology  Health:
   Critical Care Shares Surge on Plans
   To Expand Into Outpatient Surgery
   ----
   By Suzanne Alexander
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Critical Care, based in Westboro, Mass., said it expects
over the next five years to buy 50 outpatient surgery centers
now owned by physicians. Doctors perform a variety of
surgical operations at the outpatient centers, such as hernia
repair, cataract surgery and knee-repair surgery.
   Surgery at outpatient centers is much cheaper because most
patients return home the same day instead of staying
overnight at a hospital. "This is definitely the wave of the
future. It's more cost-effective and it's more friendly {for
the patient}," said Patrick Smith, Critical Care chairman and
chief executive officer.
   Neal Bradsher, an analyst at Alex. Brown  Sons, said the
market for outpatient surgery is growing rapidly because of
the increase in recent years of less-invasive surgery
procedures and cost-conscious insurers. Centers provide "as
good service at prices that are one-quarter to one-half less
than hospitals," said Mr. Bradsher. "I think there's room for
4,000 surgery centers in the U.S. There are only 1,500 in the
U.S. now and only 250 that are corporate-owned."
   Critical Care said recent Department of Health and Human
Services rules that prohibit physicians from owning more than
40% of health-care entities to which they refer patients may
provide an impetus for physicians to sell to Critical Care.
   Currently, Critical Care's main business is providing home
infusion therapy for patients who are well enough to be
discharged from a hospital but still in need of treatment.
Nurses are dispatched to patient homes from 52 health-care
centers nationwide. Critical Care said it plans to double the
number of centers nationwide by 1995 and expand into
treatment services such as early labor for pregnant women,
infertility and pediatric chronic illnesses.
   At a Hambrecht  Quist life sciences investor conference
Tuesday, Critical Care said it expects 1991 operating profit
of about $25 million, or $1.23 a share, before a
restructuring charge of $17.6 million. Revenue is expected to
be about $233 million. Last year, Critical Care had net
income of $16.5 million, or 87 cents a share, on revenue of
$179 million.
   The company said it's comfortable with analysts'
projections of $300 million to $305 million in revenue for
1992, excluding contributions from the four or five
outpatient surgery centers the company hopes to buy during
the year. Under its expansion plan, the company said it
expects to have net income of $4 a share on revenue of $1.1
billion in 1996.