REVIEW  OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   Budget Redux
Now it's true that the government has just announced a
revision of its statistical procedures. Total output will no
longer be measured by GNP but by gross domestic product. Most
other nations keep books this way, and the standardization is
a good thing. While the OMB could scarcely have been
surprised by the changes, maybe this is an excuse. On the
other hand, someone once coined the adjective "Darmanesque,"
and the absence of a figure on outlays as a percent of
national output is certainly convenient, since this year's
budget must set a new record.
   We do know that Mr. Darman's OMB estimates a deficit of
$399 billion this year up from last year's record of $269
billion. These are the results of the "budget agreement" in
which Remocrats and Depublicans agreed to raise taxes in
order to curb the deficit. This year, it seems, the Bush
administration first negotiated with itself, compromising on
its capitalgains proposal and offering up a $10 billion cut
in military spending. Except for defense, this is a spending
chow down. Medicare alone would go up $11 billion. Washington
would continue to fund mass-transit systems, even for a city
that canceled the lowest-cost contract because it happened to
be won by a Japanese manufacturer. Among other big winners
are Head Start and AIDS research. Regulators at the EPA and
SEC also have reason to cheer. The punishment for the
National Endowment for the Arts is simply to get the same
$177 million budget next year. The $800 billion entitlement
programs remain off-limits.
   All this, of course, is before the Democrats get their
turn. To them, this budget is dead on arrival. "We don't
operate that way," Senate Majority Leader George Mitchell
said of Mr. Bush's deadline for congressional action. The
March 20 date "has no meaning in terms of what and how we
act." The congressional leaders are building up to a new trip
to Andrews Air Force Base with what passes for negotiators
from the executive branch.
   There are some hopeful signs. One indication that even the
Beltway understands how absurd the budget looks is that the
Washington Post used its federal page this week for an
excerpt from P.J. O'Rourke's "Parliament of Whores"; the
headline was "Baselines and Budget Booty." Mr. Bush would
cancel 246 domestic programs, including such howlers as
grants to study mesquite, milkwood, asparagus yield declines,
blueberry shoestring virus, grasshopper "biocontrol" and
problems with the prickly pear cactus.
   The secret of federal budgets is that even record spending
is manageable during periods of record economic growth. But
instead of trying to recapture the growth of the 1980s, Mr.
Bush's program aims to help the wrong targets, helping big
business invest more so it needs fewer workers but doing
little for the smaller, entrepreneurial firms that created
the jobs in the '80s. The surprise in the budget is a
provision that Wall Street houses would have to pay taxes on
their holdings on an annual marked-to-market basis. This is a
direct slap at firms still trying to raise funds through the
equity markets during the credit crunch.
   At least, we stressed yesterday, Mr. Bush gave himself a
March 20 deadline to do something, and in a way the politics
is more important than the specific proposals. Still, this
budget is not a fighting document. In a recession families
are keeping a close eye on their household budgets. Federal
mandates are forcing states and localities to choose between
cutting costs or risking the wrath of tax increases. The only
place in America where anyone still assumes he can ignore
constraints on spending is Washington.