Former Soviet Union's Oil Woes Unlikely
   To Hurt Exports as Much as Expected
   ----
   By James Tanner
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
"Production could fall another one million barrels a day
this year," says Lawrence Goldstein, president of business
development for Petroleum Industry Research Associates
(PIRA), "but exports will be down only about 200,000 to
300,000 barrels a day."
   Several reasons are cited, but the chief factor is
declining oil consumption in the former union. Domestic
consumption in Russia and the other republics is dropping
nearly as fast as production is falling, says Mr. Goldstein.
He forecasts internal Soviet oil demand will be down around
700,000 barrels a day this year.
   Any easing of the long slide in Soviet petroleum exports,
currently around two million barrels a day, is likely to have
a significant impact on the world's oil industry as well as
oil markets. It could contribute to added weakness in
petroleum prices, which already are falling, unless world oil
demand suddenly surges or there are supply disruptions
elsewhere. Oil prices fell again yesterday, with the futures
price of the U.S. crude for February delivery dropping 82
cents to $17.87 a barrel.
   Pessimistic projections for Soviet oil were chiefly
responsible for keeping a floor under world petroleum prices
for much of last year. It still is widely assumed oil exports
from Russia and the other republics could drop to near zero
this winter, the peak period for world demand, or later this
year. Also, such leading producers as Saudi Arabia and
Venezuela have cited the crumbling oil picture in the former
union as a basis for further postponing any return to output
quotas in the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries.
   Until it broke up, the Soviet Union was the world's single
largest oil producer. Its output totaled more than 12 million
barrels a day as recently as 1989. Current production in the
republics is now down to 10 million barrels a day or less,
although output is still ahead of Saudi Arabia's 8.5 million
barrels a day or U.S. volume of just under 7.4 million
barrels a day.
   Russia is responsible for some 90% of the former union's
total oil output. It also accounts for the bulk of the
exports, which have been dropping steadily for the past two
years. Exports fell by one-third -- an estimated one million
barrels a day -- just in 1991.
   But the new studies suggest export volumes have begun to
level. According to some experts on Soviet oil, exports could
even rise again soon, if only briefly. All cite the expected
demand declines.
   The International Energy Agency, the Paris-based group
that represents the major Western oil consuming nations, may
revise its forecasts for Soviet oil supplies and demand in
its next monthly oil market report, which is due out next
week. But in its early December report, the agency projected
that oil demand in the former Soviet Union would be around
8.3 million barrels a day in the 1992 first quarter and only
7.7 million barrels a day in the second. Each is down 500,000
barrels a day from the year-earlier periods.
   PIRA, the New York-based consulting firm Mr. Goldstein is
associated with, concludes in its study of the oil future of
the 15 republics that major declines have been taking place
in energy consumption in industry, the military and
electricity generation. Oil demand has been declining since
1985, the PIRA report notes, and is likely to fall a further
two million barrels a day from current levels, before it
bottoms out as the economy eventually turns around.
   "World oil prices will be affected in the medium term as
much by developments on the demand side, with the
two-million-barrels-a-day decline, as by the much-discussed
decline in Russia's oil production," the PIRA report
continues. It projects oil exports to be "roughly flat" over
the next few years -- with modest growth after 1995.
   The new assessments of the Soviet energy situation cite
political and economic chaos as a major factor in the
declines in demand. In its recent survey of the oil and gas
industries of the former union, Cambridge Energy Research
Associates suggests that the consequences of the severe
economic slump it anticipates could be a "major onslaught" of
Soviet commodities -- including energy -- onto the world
markets.
   "Already, growing amounts of oil, seeking hard currency,
have been finding their way to world markets through new and
unofficial channels," says Thane Gustafson, an expert on the
Soviet Union who wrote the Cambridge Energy report. With the
weakening of political power and the loss of central control
over exports of oil, he says, producers and refiners in the
former union are developing their own private commodities
markets and are trading oil independently, to take advantage
of the wide differences between world prices and the official
domestic prices.
   Mr. Gustafson also criticizes some widely publicized
predictions made last year that the former union could become
an oil importer by the mid-1990s. "The argument is fallacious
because the depression has not yet bitten seriously into
energy consumption," he says. By 1995, he says, a 30% fall in
total energy consumption is possible.
   Still, some oil analysts advise caution in adopting a
sanguine view about Soviet oil. Although demand for oil will
be down this year, "production is going to fall more than
demand," says Michael Rothman, a senior energy futures
analyst at Merrill Lynch  Co.