Your Money Matters:
   Beware Tax Consequences of Mutual Funds
   ----
   By Barbara Donnelly
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Most people would answer both questions with a resounding
`No.' But mutual fund investors frequently subject themselves
to such taxing situations, often without being aware of it.
   The potential tax consequences of mutual fund investing
"are generally treated as an afterthought" by fund managers
and investors alike, says William Jacques, chief investment
officer at Martingale Asset Management. "But it's a huge
issue, when you think about it because it can have a big
impact on wealth, and people aren't aware of it."
   The crux of the problem is that published performance
numbers don't take into account tax that investors have to
pay on a fund's returns, so a taxable investor can't
distinguish the relative tax impact when choosing among
different funds.
   For instance, some fund investors are more likely than
others to end up paying taxes on gains they never enjoy. This
can happen when they buy into a fund that has a lot of
accumulated capital gains that haven't yet been distributed
to investors. Because the gains are built into the price of
the fund's shares, investors are in the position of getting
back some of their own money -- and having to pay income
taxes on it -- when the gains are realized and paid out.
   For that reason, savvy investors avoid buying mutual fund
shares just before their big annual distributions, which
usually occur around year end. But even many of these
investors may not realize that no matter when they buy, a
portion of the price they pay for a fund reflects unrealized
gains that will eventually be subject to tax. For some funds,
that portion is significant, ranging from 20% to 40% of the
share price for many top-performing funds, as the
accompanying table shows.
   "This `tax load' is a relevant piece of information for
potential investors and should be easier to find than it is,"
says Mr. Jacques.
   The differences in the tax treatment of interest,
dividends and capital gains also mean that taxes have a
bigger impact on the long-term returns of some types of funds
than on others.
   Tax issues shouldn't supplant other considerations, such
as investment objective and risk, in selecting a mutual fund.
But for people who have money to invest outside of
tax-favored retirement accounts, such as individual
retirement accounts or 401(k)s, the potential tax impact on
long-term performance shouldn't be ignored.
   It's easy to overlook the tax angle because there is
little information available to judge the damage.
   "It's the raw {tax-free} returns that are splattered all
over the newspapers every quarter -- that's what sells the
funds and brings the money in, not how much the funds
actually put in investors' pockets," says Donald Phillips,
vice president at Morningstar Inc., which tracks mutual fund
performance. "While there are managers who take taxable
investors' interests into account, unfortunately they're not
rewarded for doing it in terms of getting more business; they
do it more from the goodness of their hearts."
   Looking at different types of funds, income-oriented funds
(such as bond funds and stock funds that feature high
dividends) derive the bulk of their total return from
interest and dividend payments, which are fully taxable in
the year they occur. Investors in these funds, in effect,
share their total return each year with the government, which
magnifies the tax impact because their interest and dividends
compound at a lower, after-tax rate.
   Growth-oriented funds, by contrast, get most of their
returns by buying stocks that go up in price, with little or
no thought given to income. But those price gains are only
recognized for tax purposes when the investment is sold and
paper profits are "realized," or turned into real money. Only
then does the Internal Revenue Service demand its share,
currently 28%, of any gain above the initial purchase price.
(State and local governments demand a share, too, which
varies with local tax rates.)
   To stay ahead of the tax collector, investors, therefore,
would want to hold investments that have steady long-term
appreciation potential, so that they can accumulate gains for
a long time without switching horses. It also means being
careful to realize gains and losses in the same tax year,
when possible, when profits are finally taken.
   Since price gains can keep compounding tax-free until the
fund manager decides to take profits, growth-oriented funds
are, in effect, tax shelters similar to IRAs -- provided the
manager wields this tax advantage properly.
   In general, the more a fund stresses growth, the greater
their long-term edge over income-oriented funds, on a
tax-adjusted basis. On average, small-company and
aggressive-growth funds lost only 18% and 20.8%,
respectively, of their compound return over the last five
years to the IRS, according to Morningstar. In the same
period, growth funds lost 22.7%, equity-income funds lost
29.1%, and bond funds 34.5% to 35.5%, of their total returns
to taxes. The Morningstar numbers assume that investors
continue to hold the funds at the end of the five-year
period.
   Indeed, to really get the benefit of deferring
capital-gains taxes, you have to be willing to invest for the
long haul. For instance, if an investor in a small stock fund
sold after five years -- and paid taxes on the increase in
the value of the fund over the period -- the tax advantage
over a bond fund would be much less significant.
   Similarly, even long-term investors will find their tax
benefit undermined if the fund manager doesn't maximize the
deferral by letting gains accumulate or offsetting them with
losses when they're realized. A growth fund that pays out
capital gains all the time will be taxed a lot more like an
income fund than a growth fund that minimizes taxable gains.
   But investors should also be careful of funds that deliver
too much of a good thing. A fund manager who succeeds in
deferring taxes on accumulated gains creates a tax problem
for new investors. Because the fund's share price reflects
the pretax value of those gains, new investors are buying
into a tax liability -- much like investors who buy into a
fund just before it makes a year-end distribution.
   Eventually, the fund manager will realize profits on those
gains and the resulting payouts will be taxable, even to
investors who arrived too late to enjoy the gains. New
investors are, in effect, paying taxes on someone else's
gains. In general, the more successful a fund has been, the
bigger the potential problem for new investors.
   New investors do finally come out even when they sell
their fund shares. That's because the distribution causes the
fund's share price to drop by a like amount, lowering their
eventual tax bill by an amount equal to the taxes they've
already paid. However, for long-term investors, evening the
score can take years.
   "If you're really a long-term investor, it means that you
give money to the government that otherwise you could have
held on to," says Robert "Tad" Jeffrey, president of The
Jeffrey Co., a private investment firm. "Because that money
could have been working for you, instead of Uncle Sam, you
never really catch up."
   Moreover, until the score does get even, both new and old
investors end up paying tax on the same gains. "The
government does double-tax mutual funds temporarily," says
Mr. Jeffrey.
   Fund companies aren't always helpful in providing updated
information on unrealized gains, although they do report them
in their annual reports. Investors can get a rough idea of
whether things have changed in the interim from the current
share price and reports of recent distributions.