International:
   World Wire
   ----
   Compiled by Richard L. Holman
China will funnel more cash to Shanghai and grant it
autonomy to raise money, in a bid to create a boomtown.
Beijing hopes to attract foreign investment to the Pudong
district of the technologically backward eastern port city of
12 million people.
   Beijing will increase allocations for the Pudong free
trade zone by more than a third to 300 million yuan ($54.8
million) a year. And Shanghai will be allowed to issue 500
million yuan of bonds each year to fund Pudong's development.
Similar policies stimulated booms in the southern cities of
Canton and Shenzhen in the 1980s.
   To reduce red tape, Shanghai will be allowed to clear
foreign projects in Pudong and deregulate imports and
exports. Since the 1990 creation of the Pudong zone, 157
foreign projects with total investments of $770 million have
been approved.
   Canton's hopes of opening a stock exchange were dashed
when Beijing said the country's third bourse would be in
northern China. The site, to be picked later this year, is to
be part of a new national market with the other two tiny
exchanges in Shenzhen and Shanghai.
                                                                                                       

   FOREIGN INVESTMENT IN UKRAINE
                                                                                                       

   Ukraine's Parliament passed a bill on foreign investment
to encourage Western help in rejuvenating the economy. The
law, effective today,thurs allows foreigners for the first
time to buy as much as 100% of a Ukrainian business or
property. It allows earnings and revenues to be sent abroad,
gives joint ventures tax breaks and protects property against
nationalization. Foreigners also may invest in housing,
stocks, bonds and intellectual property. All purchases must
be made in foreign currency.
                                                                                                       

   MEXICO'S POPULATION GROWTH
                                                                                                       

   Despite a birth-control campaign through the 1980s,
Mexico's population grew 16 million, or 25%, to 81 million in
1990, the census found. The 2.3% pace of annual population
growth in the decade now has slowed to 1.9%, the government
said. In the early 1980s when the pace was about 3%, the
aggressive birth-control effort was begun in the
predominantly Roman Catholic nation. The campaign included
media promotions and post-birth insertions of intrauterine
devices in unsuspecting women at state hospitals, a practice
that now requires patients' consent.
                                                                                                       

   BREAK-IN AT INVESTIGATORS' OFFICE
                                                                                                       

   A break-in was reported at the Italian Senate offices of a
commission probing irregular loans to Iraq by the Atlanta
branch of Banca Nazionale del Lavoro. Documents weren't
stolen but might have been microfilmed. The commission has
been investigating possible high-level complicity in Italy in
the granting of $4 billion in export credits in the 1980s to
Iraq by BNL's Atlanta branch, which the state-owned bank
claims were unauthorized. The U.S. Congress also is
investigating the case, uncovered in August 1989. The bank
branch's manager and other aides have been indicted in
federal court in Atlanta.
                                                                                                       

   ANTWERP'S ROLE IN DIAMOND TRADE
                                                                                                       

   Antwerp, the world's biggest warehousing and distribution
center for diamonds, increased its share of a shrinking world
market for the gems last year. The Belgian port city's
diamond imports totaled $7.57 billion and its exports $7.74
billion. The total of the two sums marked only a 1.3% decline
from a year earlier, as world trade in diamonds fell 6%,
strengthening Antwerp's position as a trading center. The
industry is facing a difficult year, partly because of the
stalled economy in the U.S., the biggest market for cut
stones. About 85% of all uncut diamonds and 50% of polished
diamonds pass through Antwerp.
                                                                                                       

   SEOUL TO MAKE INVESTING EASIER
                                                                                                       

   South Korea's Finance Ministry will relax two regulations
on investments by foreigners, effective April 1.
   Foreign firms won't need a permit for investments in
projects valued at less than $20 million; previously, the
floor was $5 million. And foreign financial institutions,
including banks and insurance companies, may invest directly
in domestic venturecapital companies; now such investments
must be made through foreign venture-capital firms or
investment partnerships.
   Separately, Seoul promised the U.S. easier access to South
Korean financial markets and less regulation of financial
transactions. These plans, discussed in policy talks in
Washington, involve South Korean stock purchases, daily
foreign exchange-rate changes and deposit rules for foreign
banks in the country.
   South Korea opened its capital markets to direct foreign
investments this year, but foreign financial firms have been
subject to various regulations. A comprehensive blueprint for
South Korea's financial market liberalization will be
completed this month and presented to Washington.
                                                                                                       

   POSTSCRIPTS . . .
                                                                                                       

   France will mint 20-franc coins, starting in the fall. The
country now circulates coins of one, two, five and ten francs
and centime pieces. . . . Japan and the European Space Agency
agreed on technological cooperation in developing space
shuttles, manned space stations and Earth observation
missions, though the accord isn't likely to lead to a joint
spacecraft. . . . Canada next week will call for proposals to
finance the upgrading of two terminals at Toronto's Pearson
International Airport and to manage the terminals under a
lease arrangement.