Foreign Exchange:
   Dollar Surges Against Mark and Yen,
   But Analysts Don't Anticipate a Rally
   ----
   By Charlene Lee
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
Tokyo's financial markets were closed Tuesday for a
holiday.
   Dealers and analysts had expected some sort of upward
correction yesterday after the dollar plunged across the
board in the wake of surprisingly weak U.S. unemployment data
released Friday. However, many were taken aback by the
currency's recovery to Thursday's levels.
   Market observers cautioned, though, against optimism for a
dollar rally in the near term.
   "I would not be carried away by any bullish dollar
scenario," said Bank of Boston chief dealer Jerry Egan.
"There's no reason in my mind to kindle the fires of a great
dollar rally."
   The market had generally oversold dollars Friday ahead of
the release of U.S. employment data for January. When the
nonfarm payroll figure registered a surprising decline of
91,000, the dollar dropped accordingly as speculation mounted
about another easing by the Federal Reserve.
   However, when the Fed yesterday failed to signal another
easing in the current federal funds target rate of 4%, many
players raced to take profits on short dollar positions
established last week.
   Peter Connolly, vice president and foreign exchange
manager for Wells Fargo Bank in San Francisco, characterized
the day's activity as "the unwinding of positions taken last
week, but the {dollar's} movements were accelerated by the
thinness of market volume."
   The profit-taking on short dollar positions started with
the Asian session, and the U.S. currency was further boosted
against the yen on heavy selling of yen for marks in
nondollar trading.
   Short-covering on the dollar picked up steam when European
players entered the market. It was further encouraged when
the Fed announced the execution of overnight matched sale
agreements, which drain reserves from the banking system and
indicate the Fed has not yet eased monetary policy.
   The Fed's signal threw much uncertainty into the timing of
the next easing, said Geoffrey Dennis, international
economist and strategist in New York for James Capel  Co.
   "The dollar is rallying on the assumption that for at
least a few more days, the Fed is on hold," said Mr. Dennis,
pointing to this week's U.S. Treasury refunding, starting
with the auction Tuesday of a record $15 billion in
three-year notes. Historically, the Fed has been reluctant to
ease during Treasury refunding periods.
   Traders and analysts, who on Friday were convinced of a
marked downtrend for the dollar this week, are now uncertain
of its direction after yesterday's activity.
   Although weak fundamentals toward the dollar haven't
changed, many now believe that a Fed easing, and a consequent
widening in interest rate differentials with Germany, isn't
imminent. But they also say any upward move in the dollar,
especially against the Japanese currency, is capped by the
looming threat of central bank intevention above 127.00 yen.
   Players are especially wary of 127.20 yen, the level at
which the Federal Reserve stepped into the foreign exchange
market on Jan. 17 to sell dollars.
   Bank of Boston's Mr. Egan said that in addition to
watching for signs from the Fed, the market will also key in
on the release of U.S. January retail sales figures on
Thursday and the producer price index and industrial
production data on Friday. These figures should provide the
market with a clearer picture of the state of the U.S.
economy, he said.