Manager's Journal:
   Stop Playing `Catch Up' With the Japanese
   ----
   By William Taylor
The problem with these tedious questions is that they all
proceed from the same faulty assumption: the assumption that
we are dangerously behind the Japanese because they are
unfair, and that we are reduced to playing "catch up" to
minimize the damage that Japan will do to the U.S. corporate
landscape. This is all defense, no offense.
   But this is precisely the time for U.S. businesses to
launch an offensive to claim the strategic high ground. Here
are three components of such a strategy:
   -- Launch a financial strike to capture strategic outposts
in the Japanese economy. In the late 1980s, a surging
Japanese stock market, low interest rates and a soaring yen
made it easy for Japan to "buy up" America. Today the
financial tides are reversed. While the Japanese stock market
is off 50% from its high at the end of 1989, the U.S. stock
market is at record highs. Interest rates in the U.S. are the
lowest anyone can remember. The obvious response: Launch a
few careful, strategically targeted offers at Tokyo.
   For all the talk of Japan's closed financial markets,
there are remarkably few obstacles to this under-used tactic.
Indeed, in a major study of corporate control in the Japanese
financial system, Harvard Business School professor Carl
Kester concluded that foreign investors can in fact acquire a
substantial minority equity position without a Japanese
company's consent.
   When T. Boone Pickens tried something like this several
years ago, his "raid" on Koito -- a Toyota-related company --
rapidly became a farce. But a better approach to investing
would be guided by strategic logic, not political
grandstanding. Specifically, U.S. companies should buy into
Japanese firms that have mastered critical technologies we
currently don't have.
   For example, much has been made of the lack of
American-based technology for manufacturing liquid-crystal
displays, the next generation of computer screens. Now is the
time for companies like Hewlett-Packard, Sun Microsystems,
and Apple to take advantage of their healthy stock prices and
take the offensive with Japan. These three companies could
issue a total of $750 million in new equity, combine that
with a total of $1.5 billion in low-interest borrowings, and
buy 20% of Sharp, one of Japan's leaders in high-resolution
displays.
   Of course, Sharp, like other Japanese companies, already
participates in joint ventures and alliances with American
competitors. But the track record on genuine technology
sharing in such alliances is spotty at best. Ownership gets
you "seats at the table" in ways that joint venture
agreements don't. The model here may be Ford's successful
alliance with Mazda -- an alliance helped, no doubt, by
Ford's status as a 25% owner of Mazda.
   -- Take back the living room. Next, using the financial
strikes like air cover, America's leading high-technology
companies move against the soft underbelly of Japan's
economic empire: the living room. There is a palpable buzz in
high-tech circles these days about America's chances for a
comeback in consumer electronics. Still, there is precious
little strategic commitment among America's big technology
players to making it happen.
   To see what is possible, all you have to do is visit a
company like Frox in Silicon Valley. Frox is now selling a
dazzling "television" and "audio" system that is,
essentially, a Sun computer workstation equipped with
remarkable software and simple-to-use controls. The
FroxSystem is a neat glimpse of what an American comeback
might look like -- and 90% of its content is made in the
United States. But for all its promise, Frox is targeting
high-income consumers willing to spend big bucks on "home
theater," not millions of middle-American homes.
   Making it big in computerized consumer electronics
requires big factories and deep pockets as well as innovative
technology. Companies like IBM, Motorola, and Microsoft
should leverage their global dominance of computer hardware
and software and move aggressively into mass communications
and home entertainment. The technology is there. So is the
market and the strategic opening. It's just a matter of
making the first charge.
   -- Open a second front in Asia. By forging strategic
alliances with South Korean companies, U.S. businesses can
keep the Japanese busy in their own pond. For too long, we've
looked at Korea as a "mini-Japan" that deserved tough talk
and hard trade bargaining. That's wrong -- it's bad analysis,
bad business, bad tactics. In fact, for its own reasons of
history and national pride, Korea is even more concerned with
the Japanese challenge than we are. Moreover, many of Korea's
leading companies are strong where we are weak -- in the
high-quality mass production of sophisticated consumer and
industrial goods.
   American companies could swap product know-how for Korean
manufacturing process know-how and engineering talent in a
range of industries. Telecommunications is one good
candidate. Korea has targeted telecommunications as a growth
area, and its giant chaebols (corporate groups) are making
real strides. U.S. companies should see these investments as
an opportunity, not a threat, and leverage them to increase
their presence in Asia.
   For example, ATT has been collaborating with Korea's
Goldstar in building telecommunications switches, fiber-optic
cable and transmission equipment. However, most of the
ATT-Goldstar products are destined for the Korean market
under Goldstar's nameplate. Why not use Korea as an export
platform to other countries in the region?
   Of course, economics isn't warfare. So one of the pleasant
aspects of talking about a U.S. offensive is that there would
be no casualties on either side. In fact, there would be real
benefits for both sides. A U.S. that would stop playing
dull-headed defense and start putting some points on the
board with a little fleet-footed offense might be less
belligerent overall toward Japan.
   ---
   Mr. Taylor is a contributing editor of the Harvard
Business Review.