Manufacturers'
   Optimism Edged
   Higher Last Month
   ----
   By Lourdes Lee Valeriano
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Mr. Handler, however, conceded that it's unclear how
lasting this rising optimism will be. A similar uptick in
sentiment occurred in December 1990 only to begin generally
declining again in March. He also cautioned that, overall,
"optimism remains at recession levels" and that the companies
reported no improvement in conditions in the previous three
months. Indeed, the index of expectations for the next three
months is at half the level in June, when it stood at 20.
   The index is calculated by combining responses to
questions related to five areas -- production, new orders,
unfilled orders, exports and inventories of finished goods.
   Mr. Handler said sentiment may get a further boost from
the latest round of interest-rate cuts. The most recent
survey of 1,000 manufacturers was done before the Federal
Reserve action on Dec. 20.
   According to the survey, the companies expected
improvements in production, new orders and unfilled orders.
They also continued to expect higher exports. As for
inventories, durable goods manufacturers expected an
increase, while those in the nondurable goods sector
anticipated a slight decline in inventories. "This suggests
the possibility of a good old-fashioned, durable-goods led
recovery in the first part of 1992," said Mr. Handler.
   Construction companies, in a separate December survey,
also were slightly more optimistic that conditions would
improve in the first quarter, but Mr. Handler said the sector
still had a long way to go. "Expectations are a fraction of
what they were prior to the recession."
   In addition, the companies reported that current industry
conditions continued to deteriorate in December. "The index
of current conditions has been below zero for almost two
years," said Mr. Handler.
   While some builders expected to see an improvement in
employment in the first quarter, employment levels continued
to deteriorate in December. "Over a third of all construction
firms indicated that their employment levels were below
normal for this time of year and only 18% . . . expect to
increase their manpower in the coming three months," said Mr.
Handler. And although more companies plan to raise prices in
the new quarter, December prices remained low, "reflecting
ongoing pressure on profit margins," he said.