Wyman-Gordon
   Has Loss in Period
   Of $90.1 Million
   ----
   By Joseph Pereira
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
After the announcement, Wyman-Gordon's shares tumbled 24%
in national over-the-counter trading, closing at $4.375, down
$1.375.
   Although the company, which is based in Worcester, Mass.,
has alerted analysts in the past year about its efforts to
scale back operations to better reflect its shrinking market,
the size of its write-off took Wall Street by surprise. "We
knew the company was broom-sweeping the closet," said John
Adams, an analyst for Adams Harkness  Hill in Boston. "They
just cleaned the closet a little bit cleaner than some had
anticipated."
   About $88 million of the charge is related to closing most
of one of the company's two metal-forging plants in
Massachusetts and the write-down of other structures and
equipment.
   The company faces some turbulence for most of this year,
analysts said. "In the {forging} business, there are three
major competitors, but there's only room for one," said Alisa
Bachana-Jaffe, analyst for Shearson Lehman Brothers Inc.
   "It's a pretty tough market," conceded James Walnista, a
spokesman for Wyman-Gordon. Its chief competitors -- Cooper
Industries Inc.'s Cameron Iron Works division and Alcoa
International Holdings Co.'s Aluminum Co. of America division
-- are deep-pocketed, he added.
   Mr. Walnista said that part of the restructuring involves
dismissals but declined to provide numbers until employees
are notified. Last year, Wyman-Gordon reduced its work force
to about 2,990 from 3,500 the year before.
   Mr. Walnista said he expects a turnaround later this year
and "getting into the black" by the end of 1992.
   A few analysts, though, remained skeptical about the
company's projections. As a result of intense competition,
Wyman-Gordon's profit margins have been shrinking for the
last few years, noted Ms. Bachana-Jaffe. She recommends that
investors "sell and avoid" its stock.
   For the year, Wyman-Gordon reported a loss of $99.7
million, or $5.59 a share, compared with net income of $8.7
million, or 49 cents a share, in 1990. Revenue declined 12%
to $355.4 million from $405.4 million.