Elsevier Plans
   More Purchases
   In Niche Areas
   ---
   Dutch Publisher Remains
   Open to Merger Deals,
   Despite Some Reversals
   ----
   By Sarah Borchersen
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
"Publishing is a world where contacts don't end after a
fruitless discussion about possible cooperation," Mr. Alberti
said. Elsevier sold its 33% stake in Wolters Kluwer, the
merged company formed to fend off Elsevier's hostile takeover
bid, in November 1990. Its 8.7% interest in Pearson was sold
in April 1991 after an unsuccessful attempt at cooperation.
In the company's 1990 annual report, chairman Pierre Vinken
said that the decline of the British pound against the
guilder and a fall in the value of Pearson's shares on the
London Stock Exchange ended further hopes of cooperation.
   Frank Hoogendijk, an analyst with Pierson, Heldring 
Pierson N.V., said that a merger with Wolters Kluwer would
still make sense. "There's good growth potential," due to the
financial strength of the two concerns, he said.
   Mr. Alberti emphasized that although Elsevier is a
cash-rich company, it is unwilling to pay too high a price
for a merger or acquisition. In the past the company
sometimes "lost out because we weren't willing to pay high
prices," he said.
   With a net working capital of around 300 million guilders
(about $166 million), Elsevier will be on the lookout for
publishing companies catering to professional fields that
offer both scope for growth and a continuity with Elsevier's
existing products. In October, Elsevier bought the leading
U.K. medical journal The Lancet from U.K. publisher Hodder 
Stoughton Ltd.
   Mr. Alberti stressed that the publications must already
enjoy a good market position, and the management of the
publisher must be willing in principle to remain, once
Elsevier has acquired the company.
   In May 1991, Elsevier acquired the U.K. scientific journal
publisher Pergamon Press from Maxwell Communication Corp. for
1.5 billion guilders.
   Mr. Alberti said 10 years ago Pergamon and Elsevier's
scientific publishing activities were the same size, but now
Elsevier's activities in this field are twice as large as the
U.K. publisher. He said Elsevier will therefore will have
"ample opportunity to improve Pergamon's performance."
   He said by the end of the year the acquisition will have
generated 150 million guilders in revenue for Elsevier and is
already offsetting the loss of income that would have been
earned by minority stakes held in Wolters Kluwer and Pearson.
   Indeed, Pergamon is the ideal type of acquisition as far
as Mr. Alberti is concerned because it "doesn't eat up cash
flow but generates it," he said. As a journal publisher,
Pergamon receives advance payments for subscriptions,
providing Elsevier with an immediate flow of income.