Autos:
   Industry Slump Drives Car Dealers to Try
   New Ways to Cut Costs, Rev Up Demand
   ----
   By Krystal Miller
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
To outlive the recession, dealers have to figure out how
to squeeze profits out of smaller sales volumes. "Dealers
will have to reduce their cost structure and lure more people
into their showrooms," says Christopher Cedergren, an auto
analyst with AutoPacific Group Inc. in Santa Ana, Calif.
   Mel Farr seems to have found one way to pull in potential
buyers. He is drawing dozens of consumers to his Detroit-area
dealerships by offering to provide financing for customers
who can't get credit anywhere else. Mr. Farr opened his own
finance company two years ago for those rejected by banks and
other traditional credit sources. "This is an untapped
market," asserts Alan Rothstein, manager of the finance
company. As banks have gotten stingier with credit, Mr.
Farr's Triple M Co. has helped boost his used car sales by
26%, or an additional 50 Ford and Toyota cars and trucks a
month.
   River Oaks Chrysler-Plymouth in Houston isn't making any
money from car sales. The dealership is profitable, says
Steven Wolf, vice president, because of its recently expanded
service department. "When sales are slow you have to depend
on something else," he says, adding that the dealership
recently hired several mechanics from a nearby dealership
that went out of business.
   Mr. Cedergren, the auto analyst, says a growing number of
dealers are relying on service operations to generate
profits. Many of them send out flyers announcing special
rates. Others, such as Mr. Wolf, put big signs in their
windows. Service departments are doing so well mainly because
people are holding on to their cars longer.
   Mega-dealer John Bergstrom is testing several new sales
and promotion techniques at his nine General Motors
dealerships in Wisconsin. His Cadillac dealership recently
offered all customers who have bought a Cadillac since 1986 a
free car wash and wax and a free oil change. While the cars
were being serviced, their owners each got a brand-new
Cadillac to drive. The program cost the dealership more than
$7,000 and didn't produce any immediate sales. But Mr.
Bergstrom considers it a success. "It got people thinking
about the new Cadillac," he says, referring to the DeVille
sedan.
   Mr. Bergstrom, who says his dealerships are all
profitable, adds that the dearth of buyers has taught his
managers valuable lessons. "We're learning that we really
have to hustle," he says. "When times are hard you have to
make special efforts."
   Other dealers are taking more radical steps. Swanson
Chrysler-Plymouth in St. Petersburg, Fla., got rid of its
nine-member sales staff after a survey found that customers
don't like car salesmen.
   Now, when customers walk into the showroom, they're
greeted by sales managers who answer questions about the cars
but apply no pressure to buy. Prices are listed on each car's
window, and there's no haggling. The dealership has been
operating without a sales staff since Jan. 1 and so far has
sold 100 vehicles. That's more than double the number sold a
year earlier. "We were looking for any way to improve sales,"
says George Fischell, Swanson's general manager.
   Dealerships that welcome haggling are willing to take a
smaller profit to sell a vehicle, contends Jay "Doc" Watson,
an automotive consultant who negotiates car deals for
consumers. "Dealers are happy to get a customer these days,"
he says.
   For example, dealers demanded a $700 to $900 profit on the
Ford Explorer a year ago. Today, Mr. Watson says, many
dealers are willing to accept a $200 profit on the vehicle.
And when the new Toyota Camry was introduced last year,
dealers wanted a $2,000 profit, he says. But now they'll take
$1,000.
   Managers at River Oaks Chrysler-Plymouth are trying to
make more aggressive use of a traditional sales tool: the
telephone. The sales staff no longer stands around chatting
when no customers are in the showroom. Instead, each sales
person is required to call at least 10 people a day. "It gets
our name out and gets people in," says Mr. Wolf.
   Not all the new efforts are working. Dan Bridges, general
manager of Myers Pontiac Buick GMC in Gastonia, N.C., gives
buyers free oil changes. But the offer won't last long. The
dealership is going out of business in the next few months
despite several such attempts to increase customer traffic.
"We did as much to survive as anybody else," says Mr.
Bridges.
   As always, the problems of some translate into
opportunities for others. Some dealers view the recession as
an opportunity to gobble up dealerships that have gone out of
business. Mega-dealer Victor Potamkin, for example, purchases
dealerships that are in trouble and turns them around by
adding new franchises.
   Last year Mr. Potamkin opened a total of three dealerships
with 11 different franchises. "This recession has provided us
with opportunities," says his son, Allen Potamkin, president
of the Florida Potamkin locations. In all, there are 55
Potamkin franchises in five states. "We've been able to gain
a strong presence because other dealers are cutting back," he
says.