Technology:
   Scientists Create Metal-Carbon Molecule
   With Novel Properties, Great Potential
   ----
   By David Stipp
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Called a metallo-carbohedrene, or metcar, the new molecule
contains eight atoms of the metal titanium and 12 atoms of
carbon. Preliminary experiments indicate the atoms form a
hollow, roughly spherical molecule with 12 pentagon-shaped
faces.
   The molecule, the first of its kind, is likely to have a
number of novel properties, including unusual magnetic and
electrical ones, said A. Welford Castleman, a Pennsylvania
State chemist who led the team that created the compound. Its
titanium atoms are thought to supply electrons that are
"delocalized" and shared by other atoms in the molecule --
such spreadout, mobile electrons can promote desired chemical
reactions and conduct electricity, among other things.
   The finding should pave the way for the creation of
similar ball-like molecules containing other kinds of metal
atoms, potentially enabling researchers to make customized
met-car compounds with desired properties. Dr. Castleman said
his team already has "put a couple of other things" in such
molecules besides titanium and carbon. He declined to
elaborate pending publication of the results in a scientific
journal.
   In a news release, the U.S. Department of Energy, which
funded the Pennsylvania State team's work, said the discovery
opens the door for compounds that may be useful for new
electronic materials, pollution control and "possibly in
modifying proteins in living organisms." The agency said
met-car compounds also may someday be used as chemical
"tracers" to study "biological and environmental systems."
   A report on the new molecule appeared in Friday's issue of
the journal Science.
   The Pennsylvania State team said it hasn't yet firmly
established that the new molecule has a cage-like structure.
"But whether cage-like or not, it's likely to have special
properties," said Dr. Castleman. He added that his team has
made only microscopic amounts of the new molecule so far but
"feels strongly" that larger quantities can be made fairly
easily.
   The team hasn't yet published its recipe for making the
new molecule, which may delay replication of the results by
other scientists. But Ting Guo, a researcher at Rice
University in Houston who is studying buckyballs, said the
Pennsylvania team's "result is probably true." He added that
the finding "is very exciting" and that there should be "a
lot of things to do with the new category of molecules."