Enterprise:
   Bill Collectors Thrive Using Kinder, Gentler Approach
   ---
   In Hard Times, Compassion Is Found
   To Be More Effective Than Threats
   ----
   By Brent Bowers
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
"I absolutely guarantee I can outcollect the goons by
being nice," declares Linda Russell, chief executive officer
of CollectionCenter Inc. of Rawlins, Wyo.
   The 55-year-old grandmother of five says courtesy has
always worked better than threats. But in the current
recession, she says, the low-key approach has become an
imperative as millions of once-prosperous workers and
managers find themselves strapped. "Across the country, we're
seeing people we haven't seen before," Mrs. Russell says.
   Moreover, the legal climate has shifted drastically since
the federal Fair Debt Collection Practices Act of 1977 banned
intimidation and deception in collecting. Many states
followed suit with even tougher laws, and the courts have
shown increasing sympathy to consumers in debt disputes.
   So Mrs. Russell trains staff at her offices in Wyoming,
Colorado and Nebraska in the etiquette of putting on the
squeeze. The No. 1 rule: Never lose your cool. If a debtor
launches into an X-rated rage on the phone, as often happens,
CollectionCenter employees are instructed to let him "vent"
his frustrations and then say: "I understand how you feel.
Let's talk about how we can solve the problem."
   The soft sell works in four out of five cases, Mrs.
Russell says. She declines to specify revenues but says they
have doubled since 1987.
   Of course, firms abound that use aggressive tactics, such
as making repeated phone calls to the workplace. But while
such agencies were once at center stage, they are
increasingly on the fringe, says Les Kirschbaum, president of
Mid-Continent Agencies Inc. of Glenview, Ill.
   Mr. Kirschbaum, 49, remembers the days when collectors
"could say anything at all to anybody" and even barge into a
debtor's house and seize merchandise legally. No more.
   Sometimes his firm acts as a de facto unpaid consultant to
troubled debtors, he says. Once, he says, a failed
entrepreneur pleaded inability to sell the costume jewelry on
which he owed money, "so some of our people called around and
found a buyer, and we had it shipped and we collected the
money."
   To be sure, most agencies will play hardball if friendly
persuasion fails. And some remain believers in the
old-fashioned tough-guy approach.
   Richard Ackerman, president of Credit Resolution Corp. of
New York, deals mostly with commercial debtors, who aren't
protected by consumer laws. Though most are "honorable," Mr.
Ackerman says, he doesn't hesitate to turn the screws on
those who aren't.
   "We get into people's geographical space," he says. He
pays 18 "operatives" -- most of them beefy former security
guards or policemen -- to deliver notices. He has also banded
creditors together to force delinquent debtors into
involuntary bankruptcy and has won court orders restraining a
deadbeat's own debtors from paying him.
   But in general, collectors say the trend is toward
diplomacy, not stridency. NCO Financial of Philadelphia, for
example, uses scripts to train employees to show concern
about the debtors' financial plight while trying to work out
a practical repayment schedule, says Michael Barrist,
president.
   Mr. Barrist claims to represent a new breed in his
profession, which he likes to call "accounts-receivable
management." The term "collection agency" has negative
connotations, he says.
   "We want to change the image, to be a white knight. Our
premise is that most people want to pay their bills. We try
to work out a realistic financial arrangement," he says. He
even appeals to debtors to show compassion toward him. "When
a collector calls, remain calm," he says in a recent press
release. "Bill collectors are human beings, too."
   Compassion has proved profitable: In just six years, NCO
says its revenue has grown to $3.8 million from $36,000.
   Some concerns are also extending the genteel approach to
check-bouncers. "Most bounced checks are written by honest
people" who just don't know how to balance their checkbooks,
says Brad Baughman, vice president for marketing of Checkcare
Enterprises Inc., a check-guarantee franchise service based
in Columbus, Ga.
   Courtesy is more likely to get fast results, he says.
Besides, he adds, "We need to perform as public-relations
extensions of our clients," who are loath to antagonize even
late-paying customers. So Checkcare instructs employees to
take breaks if their anxiety levels shoot up, and it sends
supervisors to the main work area to make sure nobody gets
rude on the phone.
   With its low-key style, Checkcare says it has doubled the
number of its franchisees in three years to 45 and tripled
revenue systemwide to $55 million. It handled 833,000 bounced
checks last year.
   It isn't just private firms that are promoting the
peaceful resolution of debt problems. In Houston, the Better
Business Bureau has launched a program called "Business
Care," under which it relays complaints from creditors to
small businesses, according to Dan Parsons, vice president
for operations. The bureau explains to the debtors that if
the bill is paid quickly, it won't have to report a billing
dispute.
   Mrs. Russell, the Wyoming businesswoman who is also the
current president of the 3,600-member American Collectors
Association, says a surprising number of dunned debtors thank
collectors for their assistance. She reads from a recent
letter: "I just wanted you to know what a wonderful feeling
it has given me to have your help in our financial problems.
Finally, somebody is on our side instead of on our backs when
it comes to money."
   The most effusive notes get framed, says Mrs. Russell.
"They make our people feel really good," she says.