Japan's Restrictive Trade Practices
   On Lasagna Are a Real Sore Spot
   ----
   By Dave Kansas
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
But Mr. Light didn't stop there. He also stipulated that
workers who continue driving foreign cars will no longer
receive mileage and other car-related benefits.
   "I was just getting sick and tired of the Japanese
stiffing us on every corner -- stiffing us on lasagna, rice,
chicken, beef and cars," Mr. Light says. "It was like that
movie `Network,' when the guy screamed, `I'm mad as hell and
I'm not going to take it anymore.'"
   Mr. Light's buy-U.S. policies, which took effect last
Friday, apply to more than employees. He has informed all
vendors doing business with Oak Tree that they should show up
in U.S.-made vehicles. And he vows his company will buy only
U.S.-made goods -- even if they are inferior or overpriced.
(In such cases, he promises to send the manufacturers letters
telling them to shape up.)
   One of his workers is going to buy a motorcycle, which Mr.
Light decided was good for $500 -- if it's American. "The kid
threatened to buy a Kawasaki if I didn't pay him a bonus,
too," Mr. Light says.
   The policy has already influenced one employee's choice of
vehicle. Melissa Hays this week traded in her Nissan Sentra
for a Jeep Wrangler. "If everyone did this, it would
stimulate demand," she says.
   Only one employee still owns a foreign car, bought in
October. In that case, Mr. Light has agreed to work out a
"time frame to get an American car."
   Though Mr. Light's lawyers believe the punitive rules are
legal, some car dealers in the area question their fairness.
   "Who made this guy God, that he could tell people what to
do?" asks Sam Tarantino, general manager of a Nissan
dealership in Hillside, N.J. "Anyhow, it won't make much of a
difference. What's $1,000 for all the grief an American car
will put you through?"
   Some dealers are cheering the news. Terry Edmundson,
general manager of a Chevrolet and Buick dealership in
Belleville, N.J., says: "Maybe it'll help us get back some of
our market share."