Digital Outlines
   Spending Cuts
   Of $400 Million
   ---
   Broad Reorganization Plan
   Said to Seek to Refocus
   Engineering, Research
   ----
   By John R. Wilke
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Mr. Olsen's plans follow news of an unexpectedly steep
loss for the fiscal second quarter, ended Dec. 31, the first
operating loss in the 35-year history of the Maynard, Mass.,
company.
   A memo that summarizes Mr. Olsen's remarks has been
circulating within the company and was obtained by The Wall
Street Journal. It says that Mr. Olsen intends to streamline
product packaging and engineering and kill off what he called
"perpetual projects" that divert precious engineering funds
to a few small-volume products.
   The move is likely to be welcomed by investors. "There's
no question Digital has room to cut its spending on research"
and remain technologically innovative, said Jay P. Stevens,
an analyst with Dean Witter. "It's not a question of doing
less research. It's a question of doing it more efficiently.
Their expense structure is completely out of whack, and
almost anything they cut is positive."
   A senior manager who attended the luncheon meeting at the
company's headquarters quoted Mr. Olsen as saying that "big
companies like Digital can't expect to compete in every
niche."
   It wasn't clear whether all the $400 million in cuts
sought by Mr. Olsen would come from Digital's $1.6 billion
research budget. Some of it apparently will come from the
amount spent by the company on manufacturing engineering, a
figure that Digital doesn't disclose, one insider said.
   Still, a large cut in research spending would be painful
for Digital, which has long taken pride in its heavy
investment in research. According to Inside RD, published by
Technical Insights Inc. of Englewood, N.J., Digital ranked
fifth in 1990 in research spending by the largest U.S.
corporations, after General Motors Corp., International
Business Machines Corp., Ford Motor Co. and American
Telephone  Telegraph Co. Moreover, as a proportion of
revenue, Digital's $1.6 billion research budget -- at 12.5%
of its calendar 1990 revenue -- far exceeded that of GM,
Ford, IBM or ATT.
   In the year ended last June 30, Digital spent $1.65
billion on research and engineering. Research spending in the
first six months of the current fiscal year rose slightly to
$829 million but was essentially flat after excluding the
effect of two recent European acquisitions.
   A Digital spokesman refused to confirm or deny the $400
million figure mentioned in the memo. He said: "We are
working to hold down RD spending, just as we are working to
reduce spending across the company. Engineering isn't exempt
from that processs."
   He added: "There is indeed a new effort under way to
streamline the Digital product set and scale down the number
of individual product offerings." For example, a typical
computer may be offered with dozens of configurations and
packaging options, he said.
   Mark Steinkrauss, director of investor relations, said
Digital already has in place initiatives that will save $1
billion in annual expenses in future years. Digital has taken
a total of $1.65 billion in restructuring charges over the
past two years to cover the cost of plant closings, product
consolidations and work force reductions.
   Mr. Olsen's presentation didn't address accelerated work
force reductions, which were widely expected after the
announcement of the second-quarter results. Digital posted a
net loss of $138.3 million, or $1.11 a share, on a weak 4%
revenue increase to $3.48 billion.
   Terry Shannon, an Ashland, Mass., consultant, said Mr.
Olsen will begin a companywide reorganization in two to three
weeks with the goal of simplifying product lines and
marketing. He said he expects several senior executives to
lose their jobs in the move.
   Peter Burris, director of Digital research for
International Data Corp., Framingham, Mass., said Digital is
"re-evaluating every one of its product lines" as it begins
the transition to a new computer design, code-named Alpha,
expected this year.
   Mr. Olsen was unusually tough on his top managers in the
Jan. 14 presentation. One of those who attended paraphrased
Mr. Olsen's message this way: "We no longer have appropriate
jobs for some of the company's very senior managers. They
will either figure this out for themselves or be fired."
   Digital shares closed $1.50 lower yesterday at $52.875 in
New York Stock Exchange composite trading.
   Separately, Digital responded to price cuts by competitors
by reducing prices on personal computers and related products
by 5% to 35%. Digital this month began a major push to sell
mail-order personal computers made to its design by Intel
Corp. and Tandy Corp.
   The cuts follow announcements this week by Dell Computer
Co., a major competitor, that it cut prices 4% to 38% on PCs
and by Apple Computer Inc. that it reduced its prices as much
as 37%.
   Digital also is considering taking more of its PC
manufacturing in-house, company insiders said. One executive
said the move would replace some of the PCs purchased from
Tandy, but he wouldn't be more specific.