Corporate Focus:
   Hughes Aircraft's New Chief Has Tough Strategic Task
   ---
   GM Subsidiary's Goal Is to Expand
   Its Innovative Non-Defense Products
   ----
   By Jeff Cole
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
But last week, the nod went to an executive neither from
GM's own Detroit corporate shop nor from Hughes's legendary
Southern California weapons labs. Instead, taking over next
month will be C. Michael Armstrong, a respected 53-year-old
International Business Machines Corp. global marketer who had
been a high-odds favorite to run IBM one day.
   The decision to put the first outsider ever at the helm at
Hughes -- a choice clearly authorized by GM -- shows just how
fast and furious the changes are coming at the nation's
largest defense-electronics concern. And Hughes is now at a
crucial point in its bid to diversify away from defense,
where it is still best known for a wide variety of military
systems that includes the Phoenix, Maverick and TOW missiles,
and satellites and radars.
   After years of erratic earnings, heavy investment in
problem programs, competitive misfortunes and legal headaches
-- all amid shrinking Pentagon budgets -- Hughes now faces a
dual challenge. It must expand its innovative array of new
non-defense products effectively into global and consumer
markets while it wrings more profit from its defense work.
   Indeed, Hughes sees itself not so much as another defense
contractor on the ropes, but as a crafty creator of
non-defense products that has yet to fully seize on its
creativity.
   "We have to compete on a world basis," says retiring
Hughes Chairman Malcolm Currie, who turns 65 next month.
"This will require partners who have marketing experience
that we don't have."
   For a company rooted in defense, but hoping to move to a
50% civilian mix by 1999 from the current 35%, a grueling
marketing task awaits. Hughes knows it must move aggressively
in selling such specialized goods as projection devices for
high-definition television, satellite-direct telephone
service, personal airline-entertainment equipment,
institutional video-monitoring networks and air traffic
control systems.
   Others agree. "They have the image of being able to come
up with really great technology, but not being able to make
money on it," says analyst Alisa Bachana-Jaffe of Shearson
Lehman Brothers, who believes Mr. Armstrong is just the
executive to help Hughes come through.
   "We've got to figure a way to take the technology and get
it out as fast as possible," says Anthony Iorillo, who
presides over Hughes's promising telecommunications and space
sector. When it comes to producing and marketing
internationally such things as commercial TV systems, says
Mr. Iorillo, current top Hughes executives "really are not
equipped by experience to deal in that, and we do need help."
   Under Mr. Iorillo, for example, is a Hughes-developed
technique for squeezing much more conversation into digital
cellular systems. Called Extended Time Division Multiple
Access, or ETDMA, it is born of Hughes's vast communications
experience. ETDMA capitalizes on the pauses in mobile-phone
conversations in an area, compressing the spoken information
to make more room on existing radio frequencies. Hughes
believes it will also allow the company to sell
satellite-driven phone service to world regions now entirely
unserved, without installing so much as a strand of copper
wire.
   The 54-year-old executive seems high on Mr. Armstrong --
whose skills "can help us perfect a strategy," according to
Mr. Iorillo -- even though he himself was one of those passed
over in favor of an outsider. ("It's a little sad that we
don't have somebody from within," Mr. Iorillo says.)
   It was in 1985 that GM outbid Boeing Co. and Ford Motor
Co. in an auction for Hughes Aircraft, paying $5.26 billion
to its previous owners at the Howard Hughes Medical
Institute, which the late aviation pioneer had established.
Since then, GM has stowed Hughes Aircraft in the carmaker's
GM Hughes Electronics Corp. unit along with Delco
Electronics. The overall design at GM -- widely thought to
have been shocked when it discovered the lack of a
profit-making culture at Hughes -- calls for using Hughes as
a "think tank" for civilian projects, while imposing tight
budgets on the military side.
   Especially during the last four years of Mr. Currie's
tenure, commercial programs mushroomed, while some defense
lines were cut back.
   Other defense contractors still marvel that Hughes,
dominant in the 1980s fighterjet radar market, declined to
bid for the radar work on the stealthy new Air Force Advanced
Tactical Fighter. Of the decision not to participate on one
of the few aircraft programs receiving broad government
support of late, Hughes Chief Financial Officer Michael T.
Smith says Hughes decided the risk was too high.
   While GM doesn't break out many of Hughes's specific
numbers, it did indicate in this week's financial report that
profit doldrums at the defense contractor are continuing --
even though softness at Hughes is overshadowed by the
carmaker's huge loss.
   Based on a reported operating margin of 7%, down from 8.5%
the prior year, Hughes Aircraft had 1991 pretax earnings of
around $540 million on revenues of $7.71 billion, roughly 20%
below the $665 million earned in 1990.
   Recently, Hughes has been hurt in the defense arena by
contracting rules that have sent some business to rivals such
as Raytheon Co., now a second supplier on the Advanced
Medium-Range Air-to-Air Missile. Mr. Currie maintains that
this particular problem is behind Hughes now, partly because
the Pentagon can't afford second-sourcing, and has generally
relaxed pricing policies for weapons.
   There are rumors at Hughes that Mr. Armstrong is GM's man
and is bound for greater glories in his native Michigan. Mr.
Currie, though, suggests GM watched the search without
preconceived ideas about the need for an outsider. He allows
that GM Vice Chairman Robert Schultz weighed in heavily in
the decision to hire Mr. Armstrong. Still, Mr. Currie says,
GM is satisfied with Hughes's performance, which it considers
acceptable for a company managing such sweeping transition.
   Across its military and civilian product lines, Hughes is
certainly benefiting from the lower costs it has achieved
through slashing employment to around 63,200 -- more than
17,000 lower than when GM bought it.
   "Look at headcount and revenues," says analyst Howard
Rubel of C.J. Lawrence Inc., noting the constant business
volume done with fewer workers. "It's been incredible
productivity."
   ---
             Hughes Aircraft Co. by the Numbers
                                                                                                       

                      The Fundamentals
                                                                                                       

                                   1991        1990
                                                                                                       

   REVENUES ($ billions)          $7.71       $7.82
   EMPLOYEES                     63,204      67,174

                                                                                                       

   MAJOR PRODUCT LINES:
                                                                                                       

   Phoenix, TOW, Maverick and various other missiles;
satellite and radar and other electronics systems for
defense; commercial satellites and services; electro-optical
sensors, video display systems, and cellular and other
communications devices.
                                                                                                       

   MAJOR COMPETITORS:
                                                                                                       

   Raytheon, Lockheed and others in missiles; Westinghouse,
Martin Marietta and Texas Instruments in radars and other
electronics; GE and Loral in commercial satellites; Motorola
and ATT in cellular, and ATT-Tridon, Scientific Atlanta and
GTE Spacenet in business networks.