Disney Profit Rose
   22% in Quarter;
   Payout Is Raised
   ----
   By Richard Turner
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
In the quarter ended Dec. 31, net income rose to $208.1
million, or $1.56 a share, from $170.4 million, or $1.28 a
share, a year earlier.
   The quarterly report flies in the face of conventional
wisdom about Disney's results, that the company's theme park
performance drives earnings, dwarfing the more high-profile
movie box office. In the latest quarter, operating profit
declined 18% at the theme parks and resorts unit, on
attendance the company described as "down slightly" from a
year earlier. The filmed entertainment and consumer products
unit, however, more than made up the difference.
   Operating profit in the entertainment division increased
81%, buoyed by the theatrical release of the film "Beauty and
the Beast," the videocassette release of "Fantasia" and an
increase in the company's television business. Consumer
product operating profit increased 15% on strong sales of
merchandise from "Beauty and the Beast" and "The Little
Mermaid," continued expansion of Disney's retail stores and
strong European sales.
   Total revenue rose 30% to $1.94 billion from $1.49 billion
but climbed only 6% in the theme-park area. The company said
there was an increase in the number of visitors staying in
Disney-owned resorts; however, that number didn't keep pace
with increased capacity from newly built hotels. The company
also said that the timing of the holiday periods, with more
Christmas vacation days extending into the current quarter,
affected attendance.
   Jeffrey Logsdon, entertainment analyst at Seidler Amdec
Securities Inc., said he anticipates better theme-park
comparisons in the second quarter. "That's when the impact of
the war and the recession really showed itself last year," he
said.
   Disney's success at selling videocassettes directly to
consumers continued to grow. The company announced earlier
this month that it had sold more than 14 million units of
"Fantasia," making it the highestselling videocassette ever.
   In New York Stock Exchange trading yesterday, Disney
shares closed at $132.50, down 62.5 cents. The earnings were
released after the close of market.
   Mr. Logsdon said he's expecting Disney to declare a stock
split soon, adding, "Now investors will be waiting for the
annual meeting." That's set for Feb. 18 at Walt Disney World
in Florida.