OTC Focus:
   Index Advances 1.58% in Broad Rally;
   Technology, Health Care Issues Rebound
   ----
   By Dave Pettit
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
"Some of these areas were oversold," said Robert O'Toole
Sr., head of Nasdaq institutional sales at Lehman Brothers.
"People saw a little correction, and they are back buying
again," he said.
   Shares of software concern Microsoft, which fell a total
of 3 3/8 Tuesday and Wednesday, jumped 2 3/8 to 117 1/2.
Medical Care International, a surgery center operator, gained
2 3/4 to 70, after losing 4 1/2 points earlier this week.
   The Nasdaq Composite Index, which tumbled 14 points during
the prior two sessions, rocketed 9.82, or 1.58%, to 632.23.
The Nasdaq 100 Index, which tracks large industrial stocks,
soared 14.55, or 2.15%.
   Advancing issues outpaced decliners by a wide 1,398 to
877. Trading activity remained strong. National Market System
volume was 201,960,000 shares, just below Wednesday's
205,790,000.
   The Nasdaq Composite remains 12.69, or nearly 2%, below
its record of 644.92, which was set Feb. 12.
   Traders said early OTC gains drew more buying later in the
session. "No one wants to buy when {stocks} are going down,
and everybody wants to buy when they are going up," said
Steve Bliss, head of OTC trading at Mabon Securities Corp. He
said he saw active trading among institutional investors.
   "If you are caught out there with cash, you look silly
because what are you going to do with it?" said Lehman
Brothers' Mr. O'Toole. Even though long-term interest rates
have drifted somewhat higher recently, he said that overall,
yields on interest-bearing investments remain unattractive.
   Amgen, Nasdaq's largest biotechnology stock, rose 1 1/2 to
64 1/2, while Liposome Technology jumped 3 to 21 3/4. The
companies will do research into using Amgen's protein
technology and Liposome's "stealth" liposomes in developing
therapeutic products. The medical technology concerns
wouldn't disclose the ailments at which the treatments could
be targeted.
   Liposome Chairman Nick Arvanitidis contends the company's
stealth liposomes are able to remain intact in the body for a
longer period than do traditional liposomes. Drugs are to be
placed in liposome shells to better target their delivery in
the body. Liposomes are made up of fatty molecules.
   Neorx also advanced after entering a research agreement
with a larger medical technology company. Neorx rose 1/2 to 4
3/4 after it and Genentech entered a pact under which they
will work to develop treatments for breast and ovarian
cancer. In New York Stock Exchange composite trading,
Genentech rose 1/2 to 27 3/4.
   Sun Microsystems jumped 1 1/4 to 33 1/2. Some observers
attributed the advance to anticipation about a conference
presentation the company was scheduled to make yesterday
afternoon regarding its new Supersparc microchip. Others said
the computer workstation concern's stock may have gained
following Hewlett-Packard's higher-than-expected earnings
report Wednesday, Dow Jones Professional Investor Report
said.
   H-P rose 3 1/8 to 76 5/8 in Big Board trading yesterday.
Strong workstation sales helped to boost H-P's results.
   Tseng Labs slumped 2 1/4 to 16 despite the company's
report that fourth-quarter earnings reached 14 cents a share,
up from 12 cents a share a year ago, and in line with
analysts' expectations. Mark Karsch, its chief financial
officer, said he wasn't aware of any news that would account
for the price decline. "I believe someone may have been
expecting an earnings release in excess of what the market
was expecting," he said. The stock jumped 1 1/2 Wednesday to
a 52-week high.
   Mr. Karsch, meanwhile, said he is comfortable with
analysts' estimates that put the company's first-quarter net
at 18 cents to 19 cents a share on revenue of $19 million to
$20 million. In the year-ago first quarter, the Newtown, Pa.,
maker of video graphics computer chips had net of 16 cents a
share on revenue of $17 million. Mr. Karsch said Tseng is
benefiting from strong sales of its ET4000 video chip.
   Autodesk rose 1 1/2 to 25. After the market closed, the
software developer reported fourth-quarter net income of 38
cents a share, down from 53 cents a share a year earlier. The
mean estimate of analysts surveyed by First Call, a unit of
Thomson Financial Networks, was 41 cents a share for the
latest quarter.
   Gull Laboratories fell 1 3/4 to 4 1/2 after the company
posted a loss of three cents a share for the fourth quarter,
wider than a year-ago deficit of two cents a share. It
attributed the lower results to inventory adjustments and
losses in its natural products division. The Salt Lake City
company makes medical diagnostic products.
   ---
   SALOMON UPDATE: Patrick Davis, 35 years old, formerly a
senior OTC trader with UBS Securities Inc., was named vice
president and manager of OTC trading for Salomon Brothers
Inc. Mr. Davis fills a new position created after several
senior OTC traders resigned from the troubled firm, which has
been cutting compensation in its trading operations in the
wake of its Treasury-auction bidding scandal.