International:
   String of Gloomy Japanese Statistics
   Turns Up Pressure for Interest Rate Cut
   ----
   By Quentin Hardy
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The survey adds to a spate of gloomy statistics published
in recent weeks that have prompted frequent calls by
government and business officials for the central bank to
again cut the official discount rate, the rate it charges on
loans to banks. Today's Bank of Japan quarterly survey of
business conditions, or "tankan", is expected to increase
pressure on the government to stimulate the economy.
   The tankan "will strengthen the calls on the Bank of Japan
to ease policy," said Robert Feldman, economist at Salomon
Brothers (Asia) Ltd. "It could act as a trigger."
   There were signs that fiscal planners were moving to give
the economy a boost. Senior officials of several key
ministries met late in the day with Prime Minister Kiichi
Miyazawa to discuss the economy, and observers speculated
that new stimulative policies would be announced after
today's weekly cabinet meeting.
   Kyodo, the Japanese news agency, said the Cabinet had
agreed at the meeting to pursue a package of five
pump-priming measures, including early implementation of
public works projects, promotion of equipment investment by
utilities, and moves to revive smaller companies. But Takeshi
Noda, chief of the Economic Planning Agency, told reporters
after the meeting that the ministers had only discussed
"things we wanted to do" to shore up the economy. Nihon
Keizai reported that the pump-priming effort would be
implemented in April.
   The tankan includes an index of manufacturing business
sentiment that represents the difference between the
percentage of businesses that expect conditions to worsen and
those that see improvement. In December, the index was a
positive 13. At the time, the Bank of Japan projected that
the index would fall to a positive 7 in the March report.
   Private analysts, some of whom noted that the Bank of
Japan in its September report forecast a positive 24 result
for December, think today's tankan could show a shift to
negative sentiment overall. That would be in line with the
trend. Recent days have seen reports of tightening in the
labor market, an increase in corporate bankruptcies,
declining industrial output, a drop in household spending,
and a buildup in inventories of manufactured goods such as
autos and machinery that reflects a sharp drop-off in demand.
   And if financial markets are indicators of future economic
prospects, Japan's outlook is troublesome. Stocks are
languishing near the lows they touched in the 1990 crash, and
trading volume is scant. Meanwhile, the yen is weakening
despite the best efforts of monetary authorities to prop up
the currency.
   Japanese policy makers have been trying to revive the
economy for months. The discount rate was cut to 5% from 5.5%
in the weeks just before the December tankan was released. It
was lowered again on Dec. 30 to its current level of 4.5%. In
addition, the government budget for the year ending March 31,
1993, includes increased spending on infrastructure.
   While many in the private and public sector maintain that
such efforts aren't enough, repeated pleas to Bank of Japan
Gov. Yasushi Mieno for another rate cut have fallen on deaf
ears. Mr. Mieno maintains that an imminent rate reduction
isn't in the works and that the economy is going through an
"adjustment" phase after several years of rapid growth.
   The central bank governor has a history of holding tight
to his discount rate and not signaling possible policy
changes. But many say today's tankan will prompt another cut
in the discount rate, possibly within the next few weeks. The
government may also advance public-works projects scheduled
for late in the coming fiscal year in order to sharpen the
stimulus in the first half.