Iacocca Takes Swipe
   At Nissan President
   In Trade Squabble
   ---
   Chrysler Corp. Head Denies
   Saying That Japan Lied;
   Steel Import Cuts Planned
   ----
   By Bradley A. Stertz
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Mr. Kume criticized the heads of Detroit's Big Three car
makers this week for belittling the results of their recent
trade mission to Japan with President Bush. He also expressed
outrage at some of Mr. Iacocca's statements after the trip,
notably his criticism of Japan in a speech to the Economic
Club of Detroit.
   "In the international business arena, Mr. Iacocca's
behavior and remarks were outrageous and insulting to us,"
the Nissan executive said. "I just can't tolerate his
comments that Japan or the Japanese government is a liar."
   Mr. Iacocca issued a statement yesterday saying he wasn't
surprised by Mr. Kume's attack and repeated his concern that
Japan won't buy as many U.S. cars and parts as it had
indicated it would.
   "It seems that this is the way they respond to pressure
these days," Mr. Iacocca said. "I didn't say the Japanese
government lied. I simply expressed a concern that Tokyo was
changing its mind on what we viewed as an agreement. This
concern will continue until I see some real evidence of
reciprocity on the part of the Japanese."
   Mr. Iacocca also said "it is disappointing" that Mr. Kume
rejected proposals for further meetings between U.S. and
Japanese auto executives. "It's time to follow up the words
we heard in Japan with some deeds," Mr. Iacocca said. "We're
still waiting for their response."
   A Nissan spokesman in Detroit said Mr. Kume didn't rule
out continuing talks on an individual basis. "We think it is
more productive to have one-on-one discussions," said Nissan
spokesman James Gill. "There are many examples, such as our
development of a compact van with Ford, to show those efforts
produce results."
   However, Ford Motor Co. Chairman Harold A. Poling said
top-level, summit-style talks between the Big Three chairmen
and their Japanese counterparts should continue. "There is a
need for further discussion about the chronic trade
imbalances Japan maintains with the U.S. and other countries,
which are threatening the world trading system," Mr. Poling
said. "We believe that appropriate government and business
leaders are the ones most likely to develop a solution."
   Chrysler's decision to forgo Japanese steel is one of the
few firm actions taken by any of the Big Three since the
trade debate heated up. Chrysler declined to say how much
Japanese steel it now uses in its manufacturing.
   A Chrysler spokeswoman said the company hasn't been able
to buy steel made in the U.S. over the past decade because it
didn't meet Chrysler's anti-corrosion requirements. But now
more U.S. steelmakers are "getting to the point" of supplying
the quality Chrysler seeks in the sheet metal it uses, she
said.
   Ford and General Motors Corp. said they purchase only
small amounts of sheet steel from Japan. A GM spokeswoman
said less than 1% of its steel comes from Japan, while a Ford
spokesman said the No. 2 auto maker buys only a small amount
of galvanized steel from Japanese suppliers.