International:
   Porsche AG Says
   Pretax Profit Fell
   97% for First Half
   ----
   By Timothy Aeppel
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The announcement -- made at the annual meeting at the
headquarters in Stuttgart -- compounds gloom already hovering
over the troubled luxury sports car maker. Porsche's sales
have skidded badly, particularly in the recession-battered
U.S. market. Some analysts question whether Porsche, a symbol
of flamboyant consumption, will ever be able to fully rebuild
the position it held in the 1980s. Says one European auto
analyst: "Consumers are turning away from cars with these
enormous price tags."
   Porsche's high-profile chairman, Arno Bohn, admits the
company faces a difficult road ahead. At the meeting, he told
shareholders there were no signs of an upswing in the U.S. or
other key export markets. Without such improvement, Porsche
will face continuing problems. Mr. Bohn also warned that
group sales for the year are likely to fall to 2.5 billion
marks from 3.1 billion marks a year earlier.
   Meanwhile, a number of shareholders voiced concern about
an internal power struggle that became public last month,
pitting Mr. Bohn against members of the company's two
controlling families, who reportedly were trying to oust him.
   Six of the 12 members of the company's powerful
supervisory board are members or allies of the Porsche and
Piech families -- who together own all Porsche's common
shares and 40% of the nonvoting preferred shares. Mr. Bohn,
whose contract was due to expire at the end of this year,
threatened to quit unless a decision was quickly made about
his successor, and the families were forced to back down. The
company has extended Mr. Bohn's contract for three years. But
the episode left the company looking divided and weak.
   At the meeting, some shareholders complained the families
were treating Porsche like a small family business. Several
complained the power struggle had tarnished the company's
image at the worst possible moment.
   In the wake of the news about collapsing pretax profit,
Porsche's stock slipped 10 marks to 585 marks.