International:
   Japan Cultivates an Environmental Image
   ---
   Government's Conversion
   To 'Green' Is Selective
   ----
   By Jacob M. Schlesinger
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Japan has recently toughened laws and slashed purchases.
And to make sure the world recognizes that metamorphosis,
Japan next week is to host the triennial conference of the
112-nation Convention on International Trade in Endangered
Species, which Japan refused to join when the group was
formed in 1975.
   Environmentalists who long saw Japan as their biggest
enemy now offer praise. In many ways, "the situation seems to
have been ameliorated," says Hideomi Tokunaga, an activist
working on the endangered-species issue. "The attitude of the
government officials has changed."
   But there hasn't been a total shift in attitude.
Government officials confess that their behavior marks less a
conversion than a campaign by a country increasingly worried
about being an international outcast. Though it's the host,
Japan's main role at next week's conference in Kyoto is
expected to be backing a call by African countries to make
some ivory trade legal again, and opposing a cut in
bluefin-tuna fishing. Japan still won't end its highly
controversial whaling.
   "If you do something only as a result of pressure, the
action won't stay forever," says zoologist Hideo Obara, one
of the deans of Japanese environmentalism. "I can't
understand why Japan is hosting this {conference}."
   Whatever the motivation, the change comes amid a broader
environmental craze in Japan. Keidanren, Japan's main
business organization, last year adopted an "environmental
charter," prompting many Japanese companies to create
"environmental departments." MITI is drawing up a "New Earth
21" blueprint to try to vastly reduce Earth-warming
carbon-dioxide emissions by the end of the next century, and
the agency is building a Research Institute of Innovative
Technology for the Earth. The government has appointed an
"environmental ambassador" and may dispatch "green
peacekeeping operations" to help developing countries with
environmental problems.
   In the Group of Seven industrialized nations (the others
are the U.S., Britain, France, Italy, Germany and Canada),
Japan ranks near the top in atmosphere, energy, transporation
and waste-disposal policies, according to a recent survey of
environmentalists. The Japanese say they already have the
best record on perhaps the world's most pressing
environmental problem, the emission of carbon gases that
promote the greenhouse effect. With high energy efficiency
and strict industrial-pollution controls, Japan releases less
than half of such gases per capita than the U.S.
   Still, many activists regard any aspirations by Japan to
eco-leadership as laughable, particularly when it continues
to lead the world in such practices as whaling and
rain-forest logging. The same survey of environmentalists
placed Japan dead last among the major nations in "land use"
and "protection of species and habitat."
   Despite the traditional Japanese love for nature, the
country's postwar priority has been rapid economic growth,
often at the expense of a long list of social concerns. And
Japanese society discourages grass roots political activism,
which in other countries is the source of support for green
movements; Japanese tax law discourages donating to such
groups. The Nature Conservation Society of Japan recently
noted in its 40th anniversary report that it has only 17,000
members, compared with 5.5 million members in the U.S.
   So foreign pressure is the main force for change. Such
pressure forced Japan into joining the endangered-species
convention in 1980, but it quickly became the group's biggest
renegade. The convention advocates a total moratorium on
trade in several hundred species it considers on the brink of
extinction. But the group's power is weak, and members are
allowed to "reserve" species they want to continue buying. By
the mid-1980s, Japan had 14 reservations, more than any other
nation, ranging from Himalayan musk deer to desert monitor
lizards. In addition, Japan didn't require permits for
imports of wild plants and animals, making enforcement all
but impossible.
   In 1984, a special Asian meeting of the convention in
Malaysia condemned Japan's attitude, and a world-wide
conference of the group in 1987 came close to doing the same.
The severe foreign criticism "was a great shock to the
Japanese government," says Kunio Kikuchi, director of the
Environment Agency's Wildlife Protection division.
   In 1987, Japan enacted its first law regulating trade in
endangered species. In 1989, it surprised environmentalists
by endorsing a world-wide ban on trading ivory tusks of
endangered African elephants. Last year, Japan agreed to stop
fishing for squid with drift nets, called "walls of death"
because they indiscriminately kill most marine life in their
path, and to stop importing hawksbill turtle shells. But both
acts came only after the U.S. threatened economic sanctions.
   Tokyo also soon hopes to enact tough legislation to
protect endangered species. In fact, Japan will soon have
eliminated all its endangered-species reservations except for
six species of whale. On this, the country remains
intransigent. It continues to kill more than 400 whales a
year as "scientific research," and engages in battles with
the Greenpeace environmental group.
   Japanese argue that whaling is part of their culture. To
stress the point, more than 300 government and business
leaders are expected to attend the Japan Whaling Association
banquet in April, and feast on a variety of whale dishes. "We
strongly believe the scientific evidence" shows whales aren't
endangered, says Masayuki Komatsu, a deputy director of the
Fisheries Agency.