A Diplomat Explains Yugoslavia
You ask what has happened. Several unfortunate, sad and
even tragic developments. Tito died in 1980, 10 years too
late to leave behind a functioning governmental structure. He
prepared no successors. In fact, the Serbian and Croatian
liberals whose heads he figuratively lopped off in 1971-72
were Yugoslavia's last, best hope for a more democratic, less
dogmatic system of governance. With their disappearance, the
country was basically lost to the old guard of former
partisans and Communist Party apparatchiks. The problem for
most observers, myself included, is that we did not recognize
the enormous damage that Tito had done. With his internal
machinations, he left Serbia weaker, Croatia not much better,
and so set the stage for events 20 years later. He compounded
the failure by drawing up a constitution in 1974 that
effectively returned power to the republics -- principally to
keep the Serbs from dominating the others. But as he
distributed power to the republican fiefdoms, he did not
demand a consequent responsibility for use of this new power.
Thus, there was no constitutional glue to hold the country
together when he left the scene. The economy was Tito's other
major mistake. Yugoslavia's foreign debt in the mid- and late
1970s was allowed to accumulate in an uncoordinated and
uncontrolled manner. The result was that by 1979-80, the
country was near bankruptcy. Western assistance helped solve
the problem temporarily up to 1986 or thereabouts, but
Yugoslavia's lack of financial and investment discipline
re-entered the scene so that by 1988 the country's economic
tribulations were catastrophic -- including an inflation rate
of some 2,500% in early 1989. It is almost back at that level
now. The foreign debt problem also expanded so that, today,
Yugoslavia owes creditors more than $15 billion. You will ask
if Tito alone or even the Communist ideology he preached was
responsible for today's breakup of the multinational state. I
am of the view that Tito and his variation of communism were
not especially important in the larger order of things in the
land of the South Slavs. Certainly, by much finagling he kept
the country together. Surely, the ideology gave a rationale
for various schemes and plans, most of them misbegotten. But
the problem, I fear, is the Yugoslavs themselves. They are a
perverse group of folks, near tribal in their behavior,
suspicious of each other (with usually sound reasons),
friendly on the outside but very cynical within, ever ready
for a war or a battle, proud of their warrior history, and
completely incapable of coming to grips with the modern
world. To go wandering in Yugoslavia, long before the current
civil war, was an adventure. As you will recall, we always
met strange people who seemed caught up in some time-warp. I
enjoyed the sensation of stepping back in history, for I am
something of a romantic. But I could afford my romanticism
(except when I was a serious ambassador]): the Yugoslav
leaders could not. When confronted by nasty facts of everyday
life -- e.g. International Monetary Fund conditionality for
loans -- they would hark back to the glorious Partisan days
and threaten to go off to the woods and eat leaves before
bowing to the horrible American-dominated (in their view)
international financial institution. So here we are in 1992
and Yugoslavia unravels as I write. The winter will end, the
cease-fire will lapse, the civil war will begin again -- and
this time, Bosnia and Macedonia will be involved. The Croats
and Slovenes knew they set out on a dangerous course when
they first pressed for independence. The Croats, in
particular, were well aware that the 600,000 Serbs in Croatia
would not be left unprotected by the Serbian authorities in
Belgrade. And, indeed, the Serbs reacted predictably. One may
debate whether the Croats were provocative at the outset and
the Serbs overdid things with their violent response. Whether
the Serbs were intent on creating a Greater Serbia at
Croatian expense is open to question. That so many people
died and suffered, that so many villages, towns and cities
were devastated -- that is not open to question. It all
happened. The bombing of cities by the Serbs who well knew
that no Serbian residents required protection (Osijek,
Dubrovnik, Zadar) was, in the purest sense of the word,
immoral. So, I would say, a plague on both houses. But that
is not enough. I ask myself whether these republics, which
had coexisted for so many decades in peace and even
friendship, can resume the personal relationships and trust
of earlier years. I conclude that they simply cannot. That is
the ultimate tragedy.
   Those who brought about the evil in the old land of the
South Slavs will go to their graves knowing that they, and
they alone, not only ordered killing and devastation in their
own land; they also put an end to the messy and untidy
structure that once was Yugoslavia. They have left behind a
population that will be as divided and hostile as anything
that characterized the Balkans for several hundred years. My
old Scottish mother, who understands tribal antagonisms as
well as I understand Yugoslavia, would say of these Yugoslav
"leaders": "Bad sest to them." I can only echo this curse.
With Yugoslavia's having dissolved into a series of
mini-states, you will ask -- what now? Chaos, disaster or
simple economic ruin, I reply. None of these states, not even
supposedly prosperous Slovenia, is productive enough on a
large enough scale to make a modern state function. Each will
slide backward. Yugoslavia was never an economic success
story, but it always managed to muddle through. Now, most of
the country is finding it difficult to do much more than
subsist. And there then comes the self-delusion of each
mini-state concerning its place in the world. All want
instant international recognition, in part for reasons of
pride, in part out of the expectation of aid, credits, trade,
membership in the World Bank and IMF (not to mention the
U.N.). They also all expect to be able finally to buy
weaponry so that they can fight the next phase of the civil
war on a more even footing -- i.e., with more sophisticated
weapons. And, finally, several of them are beset by illusions
that the West will act in decisive fashion to end the
violence. For example, the Slovenes and Croats talk readily
of the U.S. Sixth Fleet moving aggressively into the Adriatic
to sink any ships that bombard coastal cities. Arms and
ammunition will be dropped by friendly Western aircraft to
communities besieged by hostilities. And no Serbian warplanes
will be allowed to overfly other republics because the "West"
(the U.S.) will monitor overflights and send up sorties to
force the Serbian aircraft to back down. What of the role of
the West, if any, in this unholy mess? I would like to think
that the U.N., the European Community, the Conference on
Security and Cooperation in Europe, the Western European
Union, the U.S., Germany, France or a combination of several
Western states could come up with a way to manage or at least
control the conflict in what used to be Yugoslavia. But no
Western soldier is going to be sent to die over a Serb-Croat
conflict. The U.N. forces will withdraw when the shooting
starts again. The EC and CSCE will not become militarily
involved. The U.S. hopes that the whole dirty business will
go away. The Germans may send some money to Slovenia and
Croatia, but very little; and any more active involvement is
out of the question. As one German commentator put it, we
will simply have to wait until all sides have exhausted
themselves (i.e., killed themselves off) and then we will try
to help the survivors. So much for modern diplomatic methods.
That is the story as I see it. It need never have happened.
What was required was wiser leadership in all of the
republics of Yugoslavia; less emotion and more common sense;
better diplomacy by a disinterested Western Europe and U.S.;
and a readiness by the Yugoslavs generally to see the modern
world as it is. But there was none to be found. That is a
reason to be sad when you contemplate this land where once,
for a few years, you made your home -- and which I once
considered part of me.
   (See related letters: "Letters to the Editor: There's No
Such Thing As `Yugoslavia'" -- WSJ March 16, 1992)
   920221-0180