Board of Contributors:
   The Death of Capitalism
   ----
   By Herbert Stein
That is why the decline of capitalism should be dated from
1913, when the 16th Amendment, authorizing the federal
government to impose an income tax, was adopted. The first
federal income tax imposed under the amendment was at a rate
of 2% and applied to the wealthiest Americans. Some would now
say that was very little. But there were then some
far-sighted people, like Rufus Choate, who saw that the
nation was on a slippery slope from which return would be
very difficult, if possible at all.
   World War I, which, perhaps coincidentally, followed soon
thereafter, was, of course, the occasion for an enormous
increase in rates of income tax. Then, in the 1920s, one of
the great heroes in the struggle to save American capitalism
appeared. That was Andrew W. Mellon, the secretary of the
Treasury. It was Mellon who discovered what was known later
as the difference between the static and the dynamic revenue
effects of tax changes. That is, a 10% cut in tax rates would
not reduce the revenue by 10% but would reduce it by
something less, because the rate cut would have a favorable
effect on the national income. Mellon did not have the full
epiphany of realizing that a tax cut would increase the
revenue. That would come 60 years later with Arthur Laffer,
but Mellon was on the way. Using this information he was able
to bring about substantial reduction of income tax rates
during the 1920s.
   This hopeful development came to a halt with the arrival
of Herbert Hoover. Hoover is a much misunderstood character
in American history, commonly considered to have been a
conservative. On the contrary, he was something of an
intellectual, read Latin and even published a translation of
a Latin book. He was also a feminist, because he did the
translation in cooperation with his wife, Lou. He was very
much a "do-gooder," as evidenced by his efforts to feed
starving Belgians during World War I. He had also spent a
good deal of time in Russia -- and even earlier in China --
and was an avid collector of Russian documents. (Ironically,
these documents later became the nucleus of a "conservative"
think tank in California.)
   Hoover took the first opportunity to get free of Mellon's
advice. The liberal press was making much of the fact that
Mellon had cheated on his income tax. This was blown out of
all proportion just because he was the secretary of the
Treasury. The furor enabled Hoover to disregard Mellon and
proceed to raise taxes. Whether he knew that this would
convert an ordinary recession into a Great Depression and
bring about a permanent weakening of capitalism is unclear.
   Conservatives at the time thought that they could rescue
the situation by getting behind the election of an amiable
and ineffectual patrician from New York state for the
presidency. With him in office they could establish a
corporate state on the model of the one Mussolini had in
Italy, where the economy would be run by committees of CEOs
and trade union leaders. For a while this came to pass in the
form of the National Recovery Administration, managed by an
army general, Hugh Johnson. This effort to resist the
anti-capitalist tide, however, did not last long.
   The Supreme Court chickened out on the NRA and Roosevelt
turned out to be a weak reed. Influenced by his left-leaning
wife and by a number of Brain Trusters subsequently exposed
by Joseph McCarthy, he turned again and again, in 1935, 1936
and 1937, to soak-the-rich tax increases. And then during
World War II, when in alliance with Joseph Stalin, he used
the occasion to raise tax rates to levels never before seen.
   Postwar history up to 1980 is the story of a struggle
between the pro-capitalist, anti-tax forces and the pro-tax,
anti-capitalist forces. The leading figures on the anti-tax
side were Harold Knutson, Daniel Reed and John F. Kennedy.
The first two were Republican chairmen of the House Ways and
Means Committee, one in 1947-48 and the other in 1953-54.
Knutson pushed through a tax cut against the opposition of
President Truman and Reed did the same against the reluctance
of President Eisenhower. It is of some significance that
Truman called Stalin "Uncle Joe" and that Eisenhower, when
commander of Allied forces in Europe, allowed the Reds to
occupy Berlin.
   Kennedy proposed a big tax cut in 1962. Although a Harvard
graduate, he had learned the virtues of free enterprise from
his father, a well-known resistance fighter against
government regulation of the importation of booze. Some idea
of the strength of the opposition to capitalist ideas is
given by the fact that the Republicans lost control of
Congress immediately after Knutson's and Reed's victories,
and did not win it again after Reed's. Within a year of
proposing his tax reduction, Kennedy was assassinated by a
marksman who had spent time in the Soviet Union.
   Despite this opposition the forces of tax reduction
prevailed for a while, and the years 1948 to 1973 were to see
the most rapid increase of productivity in American history.
This success did not last, however. Although the
pro-capitalist forces controlled nominal tax rates, the
anti-capitalist forces controlled real tax rates. This they
did through the maneuver of "bracket creep." By causing
inflation they would force people up into higher and higher
tax brackets, even though the rates were nominally the same
or even falling. The inflation was generated by two
well-known radical chairmen of the Federal Reserve, believers
in "economic planning," William McC. Martin and Arthur F.
Burns. Thus, real tax rates rose after about 1965.
   The capitalist forces seemed to have won a great, and
possibly decisive victory when Ronald Reagan came into the
presidency in 1981. He had campaigned on the promise of a big
tax cut and delivered one almost immediately. Conservatives
were jubilant. But 10 years later that victory seemed Pyrrhic
and even Ronald Reagan became suspect. He had once been a
Democrat and the head of a labor union. Intimates later said
that he had never really believed that cutting tax rates
would raise the revenue. He had gone along with tax increases
in every year of his administration except the first. Worst
of all, he had laid his hands upon George Bush and pronounced
him his heir.
   Conservatives had always had their suspicions of Bush. He
was a graduate of Yale, the institution whose radicalism had
been exposed by William Buckley in his famous book, "God and
Man at Yale." Bush had never been able to explain what he did
during his time in Communist China. And he had revealed a
side of himself in 1980 by describing Reagan economics as
"voodoo economics."
   But still, Bush's apostasy came as a shock to
conservatives. In October 1990, encouraged by his Rasputin,
the long-haired Budget Director Darman, he had conspired with
congressional Democrats to raise taxes. The anti-capitalist
coup that was to fail in Moscow a year later had already
succeeded in Washington. The result was to sweep away the
barriers that eight years of Reaganism had erected against
the slide down the road to serfdom. The economy went into
recession, the Republicans were ejected from the White House
in the 1992 election, and no one knew when, if ever, there
would be another opportunity to revive economic freedom in
America.
   During the 1992 election campaign the supporters of George
Bush tried to argue that the 1990 tax increase in which they
had participated was not the cause of the recession. They
said that the tax increase had been very small, about
one-half of one percent of GNP. They also claimed that there
were other, more important causes of the recession.
Commercial construction and some other kinds of investment
had been overdone during the 1980s, encouraged by lax
regulation of financial institutions and financial markets.
(This was, of course, a disloyal effort to put the blame for
the recession on President Reagan.) Monetary policy had been
tightened too much and eased too late. European economies had
slowed down. The oil shock associated with the Gulf War had
drained purchasing power and created uncertainties. Defense
production had been curtailed.
   But all of these claims could not cover up the basic fact.
It is taxes that make the world go round -- or keep it from
going round. The decision to raise taxes in 1990 had been the
fatal blow to capitalism, free markets and conservatism.
   ---
   A former chairman of the president's Council of Economic
Advisers, Mr. Stein is an American Enterprise Institute
fellow.