Bush to Require Regulators to Weigh
   Costs and Impact on Health, Mortality
   ----
   By Bob Davis and Albert R. Karr
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
"OMB is laying out a conceptual argument" against
regulation, said W. Kip Viscusi, a Duke University economist
and expert on risk analysis. Regulations cost people money,
he said, and the poorer people become, the more likely they
are to get ill or die early.
   Mr. MacRae first applied the new doctrine last week in a
letter blocking a Labor Department proposal that would expand
regulations limiting workplace exposure to a wide range of
toxic chemicals. He suggested that each $7.5 million of
regulatory expenses could result in one additional death from
lowered incomes. He said that the $163 million annual cost of
the proposal would cause between eight and 14 more deaths
annually than would be saved by reducing worker exposure to
toxic substances.
   Mr. Viscusi said the "battleground" would be over the
accuracy of the regulatory-death number. Even Murray
Weidenbaum, who was White House chief economist during the
deregulation-minded Reagan administration, says he is
"suspicious" about the $7.5 million figure; he believes it
would take considerably more in regulatory costs to lead to
one death.
   Mr. MacRae told the Senate Governmental Affairs Committee
that the White House plans to ask agencies to use the test
broadly. "It's a very valid consideration that ought to be
cranked in," he said.
   Potentially at stake are a large number of regulations
pending at the Labor Department's Occupational Safety and
Health Administration, the Environmental Protection Agency
and the Food and Drug Administration, among other agencies.
At OSHA alone, the new analysis could affect rules to set
lower levels for cadmium, which can cause cancer or kidney
malfunction, and formaldehyde. It also could affect a
standard prescribing safety rules for persons who work in
tunnels and other confined spaces, as well as ambitious new
rules, expected this summer, for safe use of motor vehicles
in work-related situations.
   OSHA also has begun working on setting a possible standard
to curb indoor air pollution. That could lead to new curbs on
smoking in the workplace. Any income-health analysis could
involve conclusions as to how many tobacco-industry jobs such
workplace restrictions might eliminate.
   Mr. MacRae said his agency hasn't "endorsed any of the
estimates" he cited in the letter, and he voiced hope that
more research would be done on the matter. Neverthless, the
new approach ignited a firestorm of protest.
   The Labor Department hasn't responded to Mr. MacRae, but a
draft letter from the department, which was released at the
Senate hearing, called the MacRae analysis "unprecedented."
Just last month, the letter said, the White House gave OSHA a
green light to issue new regulations affecting chemical
plants -- without even mentioning any need to first consider
regulatory-health links. According to the department, the
compliance costs in that case were five times greater than
the costs of the rules blocked by Mr. MacRae in his recent
letter.
   The draft letter also complained that the new theory
ignores any boost in wages from productivity gains among
healthier workers, and it ignores health benefits to people
whose income is raised through spending on health and safety.
The new policy also "raises serious questions" of legality,
the draft said, because a 1981 Supreme Court decision held
that applying cost-benefit analysis to health standards is
barred by law.
   Some lawmakers were harsher in their criticism. Sen. John
Glenn (D., Ohio), the committee chairman, said the White
House policy "seems to stand logic on its head" by
maintaining that reducing exposure to dangerous substances
"makes an increased health hazard to the worker." He warned
that if the White House uses the policy to block proposed
rules, workers exposed to dangerous chemicals could be
killed.
   Meanwhile, 12 Democratic senators sent President Bush a
letter calling the budget-office decision last week to block
the OSHA rules "wholly insupportable." They said the move was
"cruelly insensitive" to the six million workers covered by
proposed new rules. The lawmakers said that underlying the
budget-office theory "is a dangerous notion: that America's
working men and women have to make a choice between their
jobs and their health."
   Mr. MacRae said he based his policy partly on a legal
opinion last year written by Judge Stephen Williams, who sits
on the U.S. appeals court here. Judge Williams, in turn,
based his regulatory-health calculations on an article
written by Ralph Keeney, a professor at the University of
Southern California.
   Mr. Keeney, a specialist on risk analysis, said he didn't
know his article had been cited by either Mr. MacRae or Judge
Williams. In his article, he said he calculated that between
$3 million and $7.5 million in regulatory costs could lead to
an additional death. Those figures were derived from
correlating death rates and income levels among people in
Chicago in 1960 and Los Angeles in 1980, he said.
   "My number is as high a quality number" as OSHA uses in
its risk analysis, he said.