Economy:
   U.S. Is Liable
   For SL Losses
   In Rule Change
   ---
   Judge Says '89 Bailout Law
   Broke Prior Contracts,
   Entitling Restitution
   ----
   By Paulette Thomas
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The U.S. Court of Claims ruling last week concedes that
the government may repudiate the contract terms. However, it
adds that SLs should be compensated for the loss from the
accounting change.
   "Abrogation of this right by the government . . . is a
breach of contract entitling the plaintiffs to damages or
restitution," U.S. Claims Court Chief Judge Loren Smith said
in a preliminary order issued Friday.
   The government's argument that it is exempt from these
suits doesn't apply, he added. "The sovereign acts doctrine
does not bar plaintiffs' claims in this or analogous cases,"
he said. A more elaborate opinion is to be issued in the
coming month, he said.
   "I don't see how he could have worded it any more
clearly," said Charles Cooper, attorney for Winstar Corp.,
the thrift-holding company that filed the claim.
   A spokesman for the Justice Department said it will wait
for the judge's detailed opinion next month before deciding
whether to appeal.
   Dozens of similar cases are pending, including some of the
industry's biggest SLs. Glenfed Inc., the $20 billion thrift
in Glendale, Calif., for example, has a similar case pending
before Judge Smith, involving $750 million in net worth that
was wiped out under the 1989 law.
   "We were not surprised by the decision," said Jerry
Stouck, an attorney representing Glenfed. "We've always
viewed it as a clear-cut breach-of-contract case."
   Most of the dispute revolves around an accounting entry
called good will. In the 1980s, thrift regulators permitted
buyers of the sick thrifts to count the negative net worth of
the failing SL as good will. To induce buyers to take on the
ailing institutions, the buyers were permitted to include the
good will as part of their net worth.
   The change in good will accounting made the difference in
whether a thrift was seized by the government in dozens of
cases. Some attorneys theorized that their shareholders may
be entitled to compensation.
   Some SLs, which pursued restitution in federal court and
lost, are expected to try again in the Court of Claims. "This
will encourage refilings of those claims," said Douglas
Faucette, a Washington attorney who represented many of those
companies.
   Even companies that haven't filed suit, he said, "may feel
a fiduciary obligation to their stockholders," to pursue
damages if they are awarded to other thrifts.