Politics  Policy:
   Russ, Sergeant-at-Arms for the House,
   Resigns Amid Check-Writing Scandal
   ----
   By Jeffrey H. Birnbaum
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
When a member of Congress got a parking ticket, Mr. Russ
took care of it. When a lawmaker needed to be escorted home
from a bar, Mr. Russ made sure that it was done -- and
without fanfare.
   "He probably knows more about the secrets of the
institution than any human being," said Sen. Trent Lott of
Mississippi, a former House Republican Whip. "If he ever
revealed it, it would be horrifying."
   Now, this man who knows where all the bodies are buried is
part of the process of burying a few more. As
sergeant-at-arms, Mr. Russ oversaw, among other things, the
House Bank. One of his most extravagant kindnesses to members
of Congress was for years to let them overdraw their checking
accounts at the facility. The House last night voted 391-36
to disclose the names of its 24 current and past members who
were the worst abusers of the system. The House then moved on
to debate a plan -- backed by leaders from both parties -- to
disclose the names of all 355 current and former members who
wrote bad checks in recent years.
   The political fallout is expected to kill the careers of
at least a few representatives. Mr. Russ's own career was the
first fatality. It turns out that he was a big offender
himself: In a little over a year, he had 19 overdraft checks
with a total value of $56,100.
   But what isn't generally known about Mr. Russ is that
within Congress, he was the quintessential representative of
a class invisible to the public but integral to the lives of
Capitol Hill's lawmakers: the congressional sherpas who tend
to the needs of the high and mighty. The last service of that
devoted retainer was to do double duty as a symbol and a
scapegoat for the entire House Bank scandal.
   From the time he arrived in Washington from Mississippi
half a lifetime ago, the 46-year-old Mr. Russ labored to make
life easier for members of Congress. He began as a driver and
gofer for former House Rules Committee Chairman William
Colmer. Thanks to hard work and good connections, he moved up
quickly in the House bureaucracy to become chief page and
then, in 1983, sergeant-at-arms. His annual salary was
$115,092, and his job entailed directing the House's police
force as well as overseeing the House Bank.
   But his real job was finding ways to please his bosses --
the 435 members of the House. "He was and still is very
friendly and very helpful to people," says former Rep. Tony
Coelho of California. "He was the type of individual who
wanted to help members with their problems, which was the
kind of thing that got him in trouble."
   Almost every member of Congress can fondly remember at
least one accommodation that Mr. Russ or his people made.
Rep. Jim McDermott of Washington is still thankful that
Capitol police were quickly dispatched to his house after a
burglary there -- even though they had no jurisdiction to
intervene. Rep. Thomas Downey, Democrat of New York, feels
affection for Mr. Russ from the time years ago when Mr. Russ
fitted him with a bullet-proof vest to protect him from a
death threat. (Mr. Russ for a time also hired Mr. Downey's
wife, Chris, on his staff.)
   Mr. Russ hadn't always pleased his overseers. He had been
accused of a variety of errors of judgment, including
spreading rumors about House Speaker Thomas Foley (D., Wash.)
and establishing a company that sold wooden cases for flags,
such as those flown over the Capitol, from the House's own
stationery room. Mr. Russ declined to comment for this story.
   He kept his job as long as he did because of the many
friends he made over the years and his many favors to them.
But even Mr. Russ's most powerful patrons, who include Reps.
Dan Rostenkowski of Illinois and John Murtha of Pennsylvania,
were unable to protect him from the check-writing scandal. It
all began to unravel in a bizarre way last week when Mr. Russ
was shot in the face in what he reported as a mugging. City
police have cast doubt on his account.
   Now he is likely to take with him part of the old way of
doing business on the Hill. Speaker Foley is looking into
hiring a special administrator to professionally manage
congressional operations. Temporarily named to replace Mr.
Russ was one of the speaker's most trusted aides, Werner
Brandt.
   Some lawmakers are already sounding elegiac about the
bygone days of Mr. Russ. "I don't blame Jack, I blame the
job," said Rep. Robert Matsui (D., Calif.) about Mr. Russ's
troubles. "If he were to run an efficient operation it would
have required him to offend members, but Jack Russ was hired
to please, and that is inherently a conflict."