International:
   Japanese Daily
   Denies Charges
   Of Bribe-Taking
   ----
   By Masayoshi Kanabayashi
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
In a front page story on Saturday, the Nikkei said its
president, Akira Arai, gave a letter with seven questions to
the prosecutor's office, seeking among other things the
identification of the so-called collaborators at the Nikkei
and also concrete evidence for the charge.
   The note, which was critical of the prosecutor's handling
of the issue, also said the publisher "can't help concluding
that there was no such `collaborator'" among the paper's
employees because not one of its employees has been
questioned by the prosecutor's office in connection with the
scandal involving Itoman, a trading company that came close
to bankruptcy last year.
   The letter said the publisher had investigated the charge
for 1 1/2 months through a special committee, which
questioned about 150 of the paper's editorial staff as well
as employees in other departments and affiliated companies.
   Mr. Kobayakawa is alleged to have been entrusted by
Yoshihiko Kawamura, former Itoman president, to manipulate
the mass media, including the Nikkei, after the trading
company's unusual, risky investments in real estate and
high-priced paintings surfaced in 1990. Mr. Kawamura, who was
dismissed later from the top executive post over the
speculative investments, is also charged with breach of trust
and other criminal offenses.
   The Nikkei suggested the possibility that a third party
might have provided the information which Mr. Kobayakawa
claimed to have obtained from a Nikkei collaborator. The
paper said the third party, identified only as a journalist,
had "study meetings" in which some Nikkei reporters
participated and that the unnamed journalist may have
obtained some information and passed it to Mr. Kobayakawa.
   The journalist told Nikkei officials that he had regular
contacts with Mr. Kobayakawa and exchanged information, but
that he didn't receive any money from Mr. Kobayakawa nor did
he pass on any Nikkei information in writing. He conceded,
however, that Itoman-related information might have been
passed to Mr. Kobayakawa unknowingly in the course of their
information exchange on various subjects.
   The Nikkei also said that another writer, who wasn't named
but was described as close to Mr. Kobayakawa, was
independently gathering information on the Nikkei's Itoman
reporting. The paper said the writer admitted to the Nikkei
that he was gathering information but he said it wasn't at
the request of Mr. Kobayakawa nor did he receive any money
for it. But he acknowledged that Mr. Kobayakawa might have
picked up some Itoman related information from him in the
course of general conversation.
   The Nikkei declined to identify either of the journalists
further.