Monday's Markets:
   Stocks Stage
   A Rebound;
   Bonds Ease
   ---
   Share Prices May Be
   Due for a Correction;
   Dollar Gets Stronger
   ----
   By Douglas R. Sease
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Analysts said that even though the Dow industrials
regained more than half their 30-point drop on Friday, stock
prices may be headed lower in coming weeks -- the
much-anticipated "correction" to the seven-week rally. James
Solloway, research director at Argus Research, noted that
growth stocks have been weak recently. Without sure signs of
economic recovery, he said, it's worrisome to see declines in
stocks that usually perform well when overall business
activity is slow.
   "When you can't get good performance in those stocks at a
time when the economy isn't kicking in, it may mean more
weakness for them ahead when the economy turns up," he said.
   In past economic recoveries, Mr. Solloway said, selling
growth stocks has provided investors with funds to buy
economically sensitive stocks. But drug, food, tobacco and
beverage stocks have played a bigger role in the market's
rise during the past several years, so widespread selling of
these issues could hurt the overall market even as prices of
industrial and other cyclical stocks climb. But he added he
doesn't expect any correction to trim prices by more than
about 5%.
   Meanwhile, bond investors pushed prices modestly lower
while awaiting today's start of the Treasury's big quarterly
refunding operation. The Treasury will sell a record $15
billion of three-year notes today, followed by $11 billion of
10-year notes on Wednesday and $10 billion of 30-year bonds
Thursday.
   In major market action:
                                                                                                       

   Stock prices climbed. Volume totaled 184.4 million shares
on the New York Stock Exchange, where 1,062 issues rose and
658 fell.
   Bond prices fell. The Treasury's benchmark 30-year bond
lost 3/8 of a point, or $3.75 for each $1,000 face amount,
and the yield rose to 7.79%.
   The dollar rose. In late New York trading the currency was
quoted at 1.5773 marks and 126.70 yen, compared with 1.5585
marks and 125.30 yen Friday.