International:
   World Wire
   ----
   Compiled by Richard L. Holman
Europe's major airlines confirmed the obvious: Last year,
they had the worst slump in scheduled international passenger
traffic since World War II.
   The 6% drop from 1990 for the 22-member Association of
European Airlines dwarfed declines of less than 1% during the
1973-74 and 1980-83 economic recessions. In addition to the
current global recession, the group blamed the Persian Gulf
war, which last February led to an unprecedented 24% drop in
traffic.
   The 6% decline in overall international traffic --
amounting to about 7.3 million fewer people -- came despite
December's 2.1% rise that marked the third consecutive month
of growth. In Europe, the number of fliers only began to grow
in December, edging up 0.9%; for the year, it fell 6.8%. The
carriers' North Atlantic traffic advanced 2.9% in December.
   To compensate for the slump, European airlines reduced
capacity 1.8% last year. Nonetheless, the load factor, or the
percentage of available seats occupied, fell 2.9%. Freight
traffic also fell 2.9%.
                                                                                                       

   JAPAN TO RENT A LITTLE GOODWILL
                                                                                                       

   In a less-than-exhaustive approach to reducing auto trade
friction, Japan's Transport Ministry will lease one U.S. and
one European car by March. The country of origin for the
European car hasn't been picked. Citing budget curbs, the
ministry, which now uses only Japanese vehicles, will wait a
couple of years before deciding whether to buy the leased
cars. The foreign and trade agencies already use some foreign
cars. In a bid to set an example to encourage auto imports,
Japan's Parliament last week said it had ordered two Buicks.
                                                                                                       

   TAIWAN ADVANCES CABLE TV BILL
                                                                                                       

   Taiwan's cabinet approved a proposed bill to legalize
cable television and end the government TV monopoly. But
cable TV operators said the measure, which goes to
Parliament, has so many restrictions that it fails to open
the market to free competition. Under the bill, each of the
island's 48 community districts could have a cable TV
station. Firms would have to rent government-owned cables to
deliver service and foreign investment couldn't top 20%.
                                                                                                       

   PARIS'S WHITE-COLLAR CRIME
                                                                                                       

   The number of violent crimes reported last year in Paris
fell from 1990, but a rise in white-collar offenses caused
the overall crime rate to increase 1.3%, police said. The
greatest increase was in the number of financial crimes,
including fraud, credit-card theft and use, check theft and
passing of bad checks. But homicides fell 7.8%, thefts
dropped 6.5%, and thefts involving violence and armed robbery
declined 5.9% and 7.1%, respectively. Paris subway system
crime fell 7%.
                                                                                                       

   POLAND GETS BUILDING LOAN
                                                                                                       

   The European Bank for Reconstruction and Development is
lending the National Bank of Poland $65.6 million toward
construction of an office building in Warsaw, in a bid to
stimulate foreign investment there and spur local employment.
The London-based organization also will take a 12% equity
stake in the 40-story, 800,000-square-foot building for $3
million. The loan, the EBRD's first in the real estate
sector, will be syndicated to other lenders. The Polish bank
will be the anchor tenant, and space is to be leased to
Polish and foreign companies.
                                                                                                       

   GERMAN LABOR CONFLICTS SEEN
                                                                                                       

   Labor conflicts in western Germany will sharpen in the
1990s, as unification costs drain economic resources, a study
by the Institute for Economics and Society in Bonn said. And
eastern Germany's demand will outstrip its productivity until
well into the next century. The east's annual economic growth
rate could rise to only half that of the west's by the year
2000, from less than a third now. Germany funneled 169
billion marks ($105.42 billion) into the eastern region last
year, and continued infusions will exceed the west's ability
to create new wealth, causing real-income declines and
sharper competition for western resources.
                                                                                                       

   HONG KONG FIRMS LIKE CHINA
                                                                                                       

   A majority of Hong Kong manufacturers with operations in
southern China's Pearl River Delta plan to remain there,
despite Beijing-Washington trade spats.
   Of 1,200 producers surveyed by the Federation of Hong Kong
Industries between July and September, most said that if the
U.S. should fail to extend China's most-favored-nation
trading status it would cost them U.S. market share. But few
were considering moving elsewhere.
   The trade group's poll cited proximity to Hong Kong in
favoring Guangdong province's industrial region with three
special economic zones and 22 coastal cities. Still,
respondents cited problems: border congestion, inadequate
packaging and marketing services, confusing regulations and
insufficient power supplies.
   Hong Kong producers employ at least two million workers in
southern China.
                                                                                                       

   POSTSCRIPTS . . .
                                                                                                       

   Egypt plans to set up by year end a mobile strike force
using camels, horses, jeeps and motorcycles to combat thefts
of antiquities from remote archeological sites. . . . Britain
intends to draft legislation this year that would require
electrical appliances to be sold with plugs attached. For
four decades, consumers have had to buy plugs separately, and
faulty installations have resulted in injuries and deaths.