Technology:
   MGI Pharma
   Suffers 52% Fall
   In Stock Price
   ---
   Investors Bolt on Disclosure
   Company Halted Trials
   Of Chemotherapy Drug
   ----
   By James P. Miller
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The big sell-off marked the second time in as many weeks
that biotechnology investors have been disappointed in their
hopes to profit from a so-called "chemoprotective" drug in
the final stages of development.
   Earlier this month, a Food and Drug Administration
advisory panel sent U.S. Bioscience Inc. shares into a dive
after the panel declined to recommend approval of the
company's Ethyol drug until U.S. Bioscience gathered more
evidence of the drug's effectiveness in protecting healthy
cells from chemotherapy.
   Still, there's a difference between the delay U.S.
Bioscience has encountered and the situation facing MGI
Pharma: MGI's midtrial halt "until further notice" appears to
raise questions as to whether its chemotherapy drug will ever
reach market. U.S. Bioscience intends to push ahead, and its
product -- already ahead of MGI 136 in the arduous path
through the process that leads to FDA approval -- may as a
result face an easier competitive climate.
   MGI Pharma's MGI 136, or diethyldithiocarbamate, has been
considered a promising agent against some of the ravages that
can accompany a widely used therapy based on platinum
compounds. The toxic nature of the therapy forces physicians
to limit the dosage -- and potential benefits -- in order to
avoid problems such as kidney and neurological damage.
   MGI said yesterday that it was suspending the Phase III
trial, on "the advice of its independent safety monitoring
committee" following a regularly scheduled "safety data
check." The committee, comprising university oncologists and
statisticians, cited an increase in the number of patients
who prematurely withdrew from the tests.
   The data indicated that "patients receiving MGI 136 have a
decreased tolerance for therapy," MGI's statement said,
adding that those unfavorable observations "are in marked
contrast to previously reported preclinical and clinical
studies with this agent."
   The tests were being run under a "blind" system common to
such trials, said an MGI spokeswoman, and monitors weren't
aware of which group was receiving a placebo and which was
receiving the actual drug. "We were noticing the increase in
the `Y' group withdrawals and those patients' tendency to
have weight loss," she said, but had to stop the test and
"unblind" the results to learn that it was recipients of MGI
136 who were dropping out.
   "We still don't have the details as to why the weight loss
was seen and why they were dropping out," she said, "The next
step is to go back into the data" and examine the
particulars.
   MGI Pharma, a relatively tiny player in the
pharmaceuticals market, has targeted specialty cancer
treatments as its niche market. Under a strategy adopted in
the late 1980s, it acquires or licenses products that others
have discovered and put through the initial phases of
clinical testing. MGI then carries the drug through the final
trials and commercial development.
   The company's current product line comprises an
intravenous infusion that fights a metabolic disorder
associated with cancer, and a treatment for mouth ulcers that
can be caused by cancer treatments. MGI said yesterday that
it still expects to "imminently" ask the FDA to approve
another product, known as Salagen, for treatment of a chronic
dry-mouth condition that afflicts some radiation-therapy
patients.
   But it was the perceived potential for MGI 136, and the
interest piqued by the fast-track treatment the FDA accorded
U.S. Bioscience's Ethyol, that helped boost the company's
shares late last year. Some analysts had considered that MGI
could garner as much as $50 million in annual sales by the
mid-1990s, although the Phase III trials weren't scheduled to
end until 1993.
   MGI sold two million additional common shares at $8.25
apiece in the summer of 1991. Its prospectus specified that
although MGI 136 had generated "encouraging results" in early
human trials, there was "no assurance" that the current
final-phase human trials would prove the drug an effective
agent, or that regulatory approval for such use would be
obtained.
   In a release last week, issued in response to U.S.
Bioscience's failure to get the FDA panel's go-ahead, MGI
said it is "confident that the design of our clinical studies
is scientifically sound and will, therefore, continue its
development until the targeted completion in 1993 or until
there is a compelling reason -- either good or bad -- to stop
the trials."