International:
   Cambodia, Hit by Poverty and Violence,
   Is a Nation Almost Literally Up for Sale
   ----
   By Nayan Chanda
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Anger at Phnom Penh officials recently prompted the first
anti-government demonstrations in Cambodia in more than 15
years, and caused several deaths and injuries. In addition to
violent demonstrations in the capital against political
corruption, protests have erupted in the provinces. Civil
servants and policemen in several provincial towns, who
haven't been paid for months, have taken to the streets.
Demobilized or unpaid soldiers have started to collect
highway "tolls" at gunpoint.
   Diplomats and analysts say the demonstrations and
lawlessness may be warning signs of a severe economic and
governmental crisis facing Cambodia. Not only is the United
Nations-brokered peace plan in jeopardy, the country could be
plunged back into chaos and anarchy that would open the door
to a new era of control by the Khmer Rouge, who are accused
of genocide against their own people during their brief rule.
The Khmer Rouge were ousted by Vietnamese forces in late
1978, setting off the civil war that the current peace accord
is attempting to settle.
   A senior U.N. official says a "collapse of the civil
administration in Cambodia would make the task of
implementing the peace plan impossible." This prospect has
created an uncomfortable situation for the Western
governments that have long sought to remove a Phnom Penh
regime they condemn as illegitimate, because it was installed
by the invading Vietnamese, and that they pressured to accept
a deal with the resistance factions, including the Khmer
Rouge. These governments now face the prospect of either
helping the regime stay in place until elections are held, or
seeing the Khmer Rouge benefit from Cambodia's collapse.
   Cambodia's economic woes, rooted in the disappearance of
aid from the Soviet bloc, have been compounded by political
uncertainty spawned by the drawn-out peace process, and by
the chaotic emergence of a free-market economy.
   The peace process ran into trouble early. Hardly had the
celebration for Prince Norodom Sihanouk's homecoming died
down when a mob tried to lynch a Khmer Rouge leader. After
that first display of anger, the demonstrators have turned
against the Phnom Penh regime.
   A crowd of people who have been directly affected by sales
of state property, along with students and demobilized
soldiers protesting corruption, recently attacked an
official's house in Phnom Penh and burned his furniture.
Several days of violence and demonstrations left half a dozen
killed and scores wounded.
   The demonstrations were prompted by a surge of open graft
and the reported sale of land, buildings and enterprises
belonging to the state. According to Cambodian sources and
foreign residents and diplomats, everything in Cambodia is
for sale, from a government hospital to the Defense
Ministry's printing press.
   But the country's economic ills really stem from the
unique problems associated with reviving private property and
a market economy after the Khmer Rouge leveled the country.
When the Vietnamese-installed Hung Sen government took
control in 1979, there was no private property. Everything
belonged to the state, and government ministers effectively
were the landlords. Poor government salaries were often
augmented by title to a house. The rest of the population,
living in once-abandoned buildings, were squatters.
   Private property was reintroduced in 1989, when the
government granted squatters and farmers ownership rights.
Shortly before last October's signing of the Paris Accord on
Cambodia, which opened the door for the country's political
exiles to return, the government reaffirmed that current
occupants' rights couldn't be challenged by former owners.
   While that move was popular, the prospect of political
challengers arriving in the capital made officials eager to
earn a fast buck while they still had authority. Such
officials feared that once the Supreme National Council,
headed by Prince Sihanouk, and U.N. supervisors started
monitoring the administration, milking the state would be
more difficult. In addition, a sharp rise in demand for
housing in Phnom Penh from hundreds of foreign-aid workers,
diplomats and businessmen helped double real-estate prices.
   Besides outright greed, the selling frenzy has been fueled
by the government's fiscal woes. The government's need for
funds grew substantially in 1991 as the principal financial
backer of the regime, the Soviet Union, crumbled. Even with
Soviet-bloc assistance, the government in 1989 ran a severe
budget deficit; the shortfall was met by printing money.
   By the end of 1991, with all foreign aid gone, Cambodia
was reduced almost to bankruptcy. Officials in the provinces
and many of the army units haven't been paid for three or
four months.
   In a speech delivered after the demonstrations in Phnom
Penh, Prime Minister Hun Sen defended the selling of state
property. Money received by selling or leasing buildings and
factories has enabled the government to meet its urgent
needs, he said, adding that more than $100 million of annual
funding previously received from the Soviet Union and Eastern
Europe had "completely dried up."
   And he said the sale or leasing of factories was the only
way to get foreign investors to take over Cambodia's old
industrial enterprises, produce goods, provide employment and
generate tax revenue. But while Mr. Sen's explanation for
privatization of state-owned enterprises is rational, the
lack of public bidding and announcements of sales has led to
wild rumors and created the impression of massive theft of
public property for private gain.