Mutual Funds:
   How to Bet on Recovery With Mutual Funds
   ----
   By Jonathan Clements
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
"Clearly there has been a big shift" in stock-market
sentiment towards cyclicals, says Brian Rogers, manager of
the T. Rowe Price Equity Income Fund. "What we don't know is
whether it's a false start."
   In an effort to identify funds that might do well in an
economic recovery, Chicago fund researcher Morningstar Inc.
scoured its database for those funds that have at least half
their assets invested in cyclical stocks. But to make sure
these holdings are still at bargain prices, Morningstar
limited its search to funds whose stocks were trading at an
average of less than two times book value. Book value is
calculated by deducting a company's liabilities from its
assets.
   Morningstar further trimmed its list by excluding funds
that invest in a single industry sector or have returned less
than 10% annually over the past five years. The result was
the list of 14 funds shown in the table. The list includes
some of the mutual fund industry's most highly regarded value
funds.
   Value funds, which have performed abysmally for the past
three years, tend to buy out-of-favor stocks that are cheap
based on assets or current earnings. That has led many of
these funds to load up on stocks like trucking and paper
companies and makers of cars, steel and computers. These are
just the sort of companies that should do well when the
economy recovers.
   Most of the 14 funds invest heavily in larger-company
stocks. Among them is Prudential Equity Fund, which has a big
stake in cyclical stocks including Aluminum Co. of America,
Chrysler, Digital Equipment, International Business Machines
and International Paper. "That's a pretty good smattering of
the world's most hated large-cap stocks -- and the most
undervalued, in my view," says the fund's manager, Tom
Jackson.
   All 14 funds in the table should do well in an economic
recovery, says Don Phillips, publisher of Morningstar Mutual
Funds. But he reckons the really big winners could be the
three small-stock funds on the list, Babson Enterprise Fund,
Lazard Special Equity Fund and Pioneer Three. "If the
recovery does come, the place that could really take off
could be the small-cap value funds," contends Mr. Phillips.
   Why should small-stock funds do so well? Peter Schliemann,
manager of the $153 million Babson Enterprise Fund, explains:
"If you buy the thesis that we're at the start of a cyclical
recovery, then you want to be in small-stock funds, because
they are more cyclically sensitive. And if you can find
small-company funds that have even more of a weighting than
usual toward cyclical stocks, then those are the ones that
should perform the very best."
   Notably absent from Morningstar's list are any of the
so-called equity-income funds. Equity-income funds typically
use the value style of stockpicking, but they tend to stick
with stocks that pay higher dividends. As a result, these
funds usually have less money in cyclicals and more money in
high-yielding stocks like utilities and financial services
companies.
   Like cyclicals, financial stocks are likely to do well
during an economic recovery, says Morningstar's Mr. Phillips.
But he says that the shares of electric utility companies may
have a rougher time.
   Because of their fat dividend yields, electric utility
stocks are especially sensitive to interest-rate changes.
When the economy recovers, interest rates are likely to rise,
which could cause utility stocks to tumble because their
dividends won't seem so attractive. In addition, earnings
growth at utilities is likely to look relatively stodgy
during an economic recovery.
   Thus, Mr. Phillips says that mutual fund investors looking
to play the economic recovery may want to steer clear of
equity-income funds that are heavily stacked with electric
utility stocks. "If you wanted to get a pure play, that's
something that would muck up the works," he says.
   Aware that electric utilities could be laggards during an
economic recovery, T. Rowe Price Equity Income's Mr. Rogers
has trimmed his holdings over the past few months, to 5% from
9%.
   "In the fall, we cut back our position in some of the more
yield-oriented utilities," says Mr. Rogers. "As believers
that there will be some increase in the rate of economic
growth sometime in 1992, we thought it made sense to recycle
a portion of our utility holdings into some things that were
more likely to benefit from a cyclical turn."
   While value managers are cheered by the recent move
towards cyclical stocks, many remain cautious. One nagging
question: When will the economy recover?
   "My personal belief is that the market is willing to look
ahead six months," says Prudential Equity Fund's Mr. Jackson.
"People are willing to believe that the {economic} pressure
will be off sometime this summer. But by then, we had better
have some evidence that the economy is coming back" or value
funds could once again head back into the doghouse.
   ---
                  A Turn for the Better?
                                                                                                       

   The 14 funds below meet three criteria: They have at least
half their portfoliio in cyclical stocks, their portfolio
holdings trade at less than two times book value and they
have returned at least 10% a year over the five years ended
Dec. 1991.
                                                                                                       

                                   FUND'S  PORTFOLIO  ANNUAL
                                   PRICE/  PERCENT     FIVE-
                            SALES  BOOK    IN           YEAR
 FUND                      CHARGE  RATIO   CYCLICALS  RETURN
                                                                                                       

 Affiliated Fund             6.75%  1.98    54.5%      10.6%
 Babson Enterprise           none   1.99    59.0       12.1
 Colonial Fund               5.75   1.88    51.2       11.0
 Fidelity Balanced           none   1.63    62.4       12.3
 Fidelity Puritan            2.0    1.62    58.3       10.2
 Gradison Estd Growth        none   1.61    60.3       11.0
 IAI Value Fund              none   1.70    64.9       13.0
 Lazard Special Equity       none   1.67    53.0       12.5
 Lindner Fund                none   1.58    61.6       11.7
 Merrill Lynch Basic Value A 6.5    1.19    57.5       10.7
 Merrill Lynch Phoenix A     6.5    1.22    55.6       10.7
 Parnassus Fund              3.5    1.43    75.8       10.1
 Pioneer Three               5.75   1.99    56.3       11.4
 Prudential Equity Fund B    5.0*   1.52    57.3       12.6
                                                                                                       

 Average Stock Mutual Fund          4.10    40.7%      12.9%
                                                                                                       

   Note: Figures based on latest published portfolio
holdings. Price/Book ratio is calculated by dividing Dec. 31
1991 stock prices by each book value.
   *Back-end sales charge
                                                                                                       

   Source: Morningstar Inc.