Who's News:
   Ex-Bank Chairman
   Finds Higher Pay
   As a Consultant
   ----
   By Peter Pae
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
As a consultant to the bank, First Chicago said Mr.
Sullivan is earning $780,000 a year and will do so until the
end of 1994. Before retiring in December, Mr. Sullivan's
annual salary was about $770,000. The consulting agreement
was struck shortly before the 61-year-old Mr. Sullivan took
early retirement to devote more time to community service and
his family.
   In addition to the salary for "consulting and advisory
services," the bank is providing "incidental benefits, such
as the use of a car, office space and secretarial support,"
First Chicago said in a proxy statement. The salary and
benefits are in addition to the $136,000 Mr. Sullivan will
receive in annual pension payments.
   Mr. Sullivan is currently mentioned as a leading candidate
for the post of deputy mayor for economic development of New
York City. A spokeswoman for First Chicago said Mr. Sullivan
would continue to receive the $780,000 annual salary even if
he is employed elsewhere.
   Although it's not unusual for senior executives to be
retained as consultants upon retirement from a company,
compensation consultants said it was rare for retired
executive to be paid more than when employed full-time. The
going rate for chief executives-turned-consultants is about
$250,000 to $300,000 a year, they said.
   A First Chicago spokeswoman said that although Mr.
Sullivan was paid $770,000 in 1991, his annual salary rate
was $780,000, the same as what he will be getting as a
consultant. "He is not getting a raise," she said. She also
noted that Mr. Sullivan had not received an executive bonus
for two years. That cut his total cash compensation sharply
from 1989, when it was $1.3 million.
   After Mr. Sullivan retired, there was public disclosure of
a First Chicago internal audit that criticized management for
lax control over an executive who has been convicted for
accepting kickbacks. There have also been allegations that
the executive had set up an illegal betting pool for bank
managers at Mr. Sullivan's behest. First Chicago maintained,
however, that Mr. Sullivan's retirement had nothing to do
with the disclosures.