Rising Competition Eroded U.S. Futures Business in '91
   ----
   By Elyse Tanouye
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
What really caused the slowdown -- and what many industry
officials find most disturbing -- is that the futures
business is being siphoned off by the rapidly growing
international and off-exchange competition. The market
structure of futures trading is changing, industry members
say, and that could mean last year's lull in exchange
business isn't temporary.
   Total futures volume at the country's futures exchanges
last year was 262,895,023 contracts, down 4.9% from 1990 and
the first decline since 1968. Total options volume of
62,201,905 was down 3% from the previous year.
   The results would have been worse if not for a busy
December-futures volume for the month was up 13.6% from a
year earlier and options jumped 28.9%.
   Although domestic business was down, futures volume
world-wide was up, notes John Damgard, president of the
Futures Industry Association, the trade group that compiles
volume statistics from domestic and international exchanges.
Year-end numbers aren't available yet, but through November,
world-wide volume was about 3.6% higher than a year earlier.
The nonU.S. portion of that volume was up 17.5% while
domestic volume through November was down 6%.
   As international exchanges grow in number and scope, much
of the futures business from foreign users that once came to
the U.S. now is done closer to home at exchanges in London,
Paris, Tokyo, Sydney and other cities. And international
markets are also attracting U.S. traders.
   Some off-shore exchanges offer certain advantages over
U.S. exchanges, says Kenneth Tropin, president of John W.
Henry  Co., a futures trading adviser that manages about
$900 million in capital. Those advantages include fewer
restrictions on position sizes, sometimes greater liquidity,
and products that aren't available in the U.S.
   The cash market is another growing competitor to U.S.
exchanges, says Jack Schwager, director of futures research
at Prudential Securities. As more money flows into the hands
of professional futures money managers, the number of large
orders has grown. Executing large orders on an exchange can
sometimes affect the price, so many traders are instead using
the interbank market for currencies and other cash markets,
Mr. Schwager says.
   The outlooks are mixed for this year. Mr. Damgard of the
Futures Industry Association thinks 1991 was just a "flat
spot in an otherwise steep upward slope." He predicts U.S.
volume will grow, noting that the strong performance in
December and so far this year indicate the recovery is
already under way.
   But Mr. Schwager of Prudential thinks the "super growth"
in futures is over, in part because of competition, but also
because of the natural leveling off that fastgrowth
industries eventually undergo. While volume will continue to
rise, he says, the industry won't match the the phenomenal
growth of the past two decades.
   A drop in futures volume weighs most heavily on the
exchanges themselves, which derive most of their revenues
from trades. Most exchanges took a hard look at their costs
last year and, in some cases, tightened their belts through
staff cuts and other expense trimming.
   At the Chicago Board of Trade, the world's largest futures
exchange, total futures and options volume fell 9.7% last
year. When it became apparent volume was slowing, the
exchange reduced its budget by $4 million by cutting staff,
eliminating some programs, consolidating certain functions
and other measures, a spokesman says. The staff was reduced
by 96 to 774 through attrition and some layoffs. The exchange
isn't planning any more layoffs this year, he says, but it
will keep the reduced budget levels.
   Volume at the Chicago Mercantile Exchange actually
increased 5% last year, with futures up 2.7% and options up
15.6%. But because the exchange in April reduced its clearing
fees, which account for a large chunk of revenue, it had to
cut costs, a spokesman says. That meant a 10% reduction in
staff through attrition, most of which occurred in 1990, he
says. This year's budget conservatively anticipates flat
revenues, he says.
   The Commodity Exchange and Coffee, Sugar  Cocoa Exchange
in New York suffered some of the biggest trading fall-offs in
percentage terms, but exchange officials say they managed to
squeeze out profits for the year. Futures and options volume
at the Comex dropped 17.3% while Coffee Exchange volume
declined by 20.8%.
   Bennett Corn, president of the coffee exchange, attributes
the decline to the recession, a normal cyclical downturn in
agricultural products, as well as the impact of geopolitical
events, such as the Gulf War and collapse of the Soviet
Union. Trading volume has also been affected by the demise of
several major commodity firms in recent years, he adds.
   The exchange responded to the drop in business by reducing
staff by about 5% and cutting or delaying costs in other
areas, he says. This year's volume is expected at least to
match 1991, and perhaps increase, he says.
   David Halperin, Comex president, says, "We're running as
lean as we can," adding that trading volume is expected to
recover this year but not to 1990 levels.
   Futures and options volume at the New York Mercantile
Exchange was off just 3.9%, which didn't require any
cost-cutting measures, a spokeswoman says. And the New York
Cotton Exchange, where volume jumped by a whopping 43%, is
hiring people, largely because of a burst of activity in its
U.S. Dollar Index options pit.