Credit Markets:
   Big Supply
   Of Junk Bonds
   In the Offing
   ----
   By Constance Mitchell
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Some investors consider this the latest sign that the junk
bond market's revival is entering a new -- and stronger --
phase. The junk market nearly collapsed in 1990, then
rebounded in 1991. Some analysts, however, are warning
investors that the huge supply of new bonds will soon trigger
a correction that will depress prices, cause yields to rise,
and chip away a portion of the hefty total returns the market
has generated.
   Preliminary first-quarter data compiled by Merrill Lynch 
Co. show that junk bonds -- which are high yielding,
below-investment-grade corporate bonds -- have so far posted
a total return of about 7%, including interest income and
price changes. In contrast, long-term Treasury bonds sagged,
posting a negative 3.5% total return.
   While junk bonds will likely continue to outperform
Treasury bonds this year, the "incredible junk bond bull
market may be running out of steam," said Mariel Clemensen,
director of high-yield research at Lehman Brothers, a
division of Shearson Lehman Brothers Inc. Ms. Clemensen
doesn't expect prices to plunge, but she says that yields may
"back up a little bit." One sign that a correction may soon
occur can be seen in trading behavior of new junk bond
issues.
   For some time, prices of new junk issues would quickly
rise as much as three points, or $30 for a bond with a $1,000
face amount, shortly after the bonds began trading in the
secondary, or resale, market. But last week, Ms. Clemensen
said, "new issues came to market and remained at their issue
price. That leads us to believe that the rally is losing
momentum."
   That's actually welcome news to traditional junk bond
buyers, who are hoping that a market setback will push yields
on new issues higher and push prices in the secondary market
lower.
   Still, the new junk issues are selling very well, due
mostly to the strong appetite of many non-traditional junk
bond buyers that are chasing high yields.
   "Pension funds, private investment advisers, insurance
companies, short-term funds and others that normally are not
in the high-yield market now are putting some money aside to
invest in this market because they desperately need the
yield," said Kingman Penniman, director of junk bond research
at Duff  Phelps/MCM Research Inc.
   But managers of many junk-bond mutual funds are waiting
for prices to slide before investing in new issues. Daniel
Smith, a portfolio manager at Van Kampen Merritt, hasn't
purchased many recent new issues because he worries that
yields may have hit bottom and will soon start to rise again.
"In that case, the investor is going to be under water." As a
result, he has been staying away from many of the new issues,
including those sold by popular junk-bond issuers such as
Safeway Inc. and Treasure Island, a unit of Mirage Casino
Hotel.
   Safeway, for example, came to market last week and sold
$250 million of seven-year notes yielding 9.35% and $150
million of 15-year senior subordinated debentures yielding
9.875%. Mr. Smith considered that too low for a junk-bond
issue, although it is typical of the current yields on many
new, top-tier junk issues. By contrast, new issues of
lower-quality junk currently yield 10.50% to 11%.
   Mr. Smith is not alone in his displeasure. "I don't like
the new issue market; the yields stink," complains Daniel
Fuss, executive vice president at money manager Loomis Sayles
 Co. in Boston. Mr. Fuss, like many other traditional junk
bond buyers, has been bypassing the newissue market and
instead finding better values in the secondary market.
   Junk bonds also are expensive in the secondary market,
institutional investors say, but they figure that many older
bonds are worth the high price if they are candidates for one
of two extraordinary events: either a credit-rating upgrade
or a move by the issuing company to buy the bonds back from
investors at a big premium. Of the two, a buy-back offers the
best opportunities.
   In fact, analysts note that many junk bonds currently are
trading at their "yield-to-call" price, which assumes that
the bonds will be redeemed by the issuer at the first call
date.
   Even bonds that won't reach their call date for many years
are trading as if the bonds will be redeemed very soon.
That's because many companies that have sold new junk bonds
recently have used the proceeds to buy back their older,
higher-yielding bonds at a premium to the face value.
   ---
   Friday's Market Activity
                                                                                                       

   Bond prices tumbled Friday, wiping out in a single day
most of the gains that had been accumulated earlier in the
week.
   The bond market's bellwether security, the 30-year
Treasury bond, fell 7/8 point to 99 13/32 from 100 9/32. That
amounts to a loss of about $8.75 for a bond with a $1,000
face amount. The issue's yield, which moves in the opposite
direction of its price, rose back over 8%, to 8.04% from
7.96%.
   Traders said that bond prices opened higher. But the
market reversed course and prices plunged after the Federal
Reserve Bank of Philadelphia reported the results of its
latest business outlook survey. The regional Fed bank said
its index of manufacturing activity surged to a reading of
18.4 in March from a negative 0.9 in February.
   The report "showed a pretty good rebound in the factory
sector, and that put the market in a little bit of trouble,"
said Michael Strauss, chief economist at UBS Securities Inc.
   The market continued to slide as institutional investors
began to sell large amounts of five-year notes and circulate
"bid lists" of corporate bonds and mortgage securities. A bid
list is a list of securities that institutions want to sell.
   Adding to the downward pressure was the expiration of bond
futures options. Traders say owners of "puts" exercised those
options, selling futures contracts after the bond futures
contract broke below 98. In addition, some participants who
were "short" the put options bought puts themselves, a
bearish play that further depressed the price of the
underlying bond futures contract.
   The June Treasury bond contract settled at 97 18/32, down
23/32 from Thursday's settlement.
   The price action served to emphasize that the government
securities market remains in a trading range. Traders said
they are unsure how the market's behavior will affect this
week's Treasury note auctions.
   The Treasury will sell $14.75 billion of two-year notes
tomorrow and $10.25 billion of five-year notes on Wednesday.
In when-issued trading late Friday, the new two-year notes
were quoted at yields of 5.88% and the five-year notes were
quoted at 7.11%.