Technology:
   Texas Instruments
   Is Intervening
   In Intel's Case
   ----
   By Stephen Kreider Yoder
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
At the same time, the judge denied Intel's request that
Chips  Technologies be restrained from transferring to other
companies the technologies embedded in its clones of Intel's
chips.
   By allowing Dallas-based Texas Instruments into the legal
battle, the judge has granted a powerful legal ally to Chips
 Technologies, whose executives have said its survival
depends on the success of its Intel clones. Intel, which has
profited handsomely from its dominance of the market for
microprocessors, has been tenacious in its legal battles
against companies that try to horn in on that market by
producing chips that mimic its own.
   Texas Instruments, in effect, will be helping defend Chips
 Technologies, which chose the Dallas company as a
manufacturer in part because the company is known for its
legal muscle. Texas Instruments has an agreement with Chips 
Technologies to make that company's chips that are compatible
with Intel's 386 and 387 microprocessors. A Texas Instruments
spokesman said that "We asked that we be allowed to
participate in the proceedings so we can protect our rights
and interests."
   Chips  Technologies last fall introduced its family of
chips that are compatible with Intel's 386 microprocessors,
which are the most popular "brains" of personal computers.
Chips  Technologies maintains it spent three years and $50
million reverse-engineering the chips specifically to avoid
infringements on Intel's patents and copyrights.
   Intel, of Santa Clara, Calif., unexpectedly filed suit
against Chips  Technologies last month despite being in
private settlement negotiations with the San Jose, Calif.,
chip maker. As part of the suit, Intel asked the federal
judge to issue a temporary restraining order against Chips 
Technologies, which could have affected Texas Instruments'
ability to continue making chips for the company.
   Texas Instruments argues that it has patent
cross-licensing agreements with Intel that give the Dallas
company the patent rights to Intel's microprocessors and
other products. Under the deal, Texas Instruments "is
licensed to make, have made, use, lease, sell and otherwise
dispose of certain products," said the Texas Instruments
spokesman. "We believe our commitment to Chips is consistent
with our agreement with Intel."
   Intel lawyer Thomas Dunlap, criticizing Texas Instruments
for joining the fray, said that "it's somewhat surprising
that they've been the defender of intellectual property and
now they come in and defend an infringer."