Czech Businessman's Bank Regains
   Investors, Image With Privatization
   ----
   By Amy Barrett
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
But later, under the Communist regime, zivnostnik, or
businessman, became a dirty word. If your father had been
one, you could count on the worst military-service assignment
and abandon hope of going beyond a secondary school
education. Private business was selfish, anti-social and
anti-socialist.
   "Today, zivnostnik is again a good word," says Zivnobanka
Chairman Jiri Kunert. And while Zivnobanka is now very small,
even by local standards, with the help of foreign investors
its recently approved privatization will boost
Czechoslovakia's embryonic private sector.
   Most of Czechoslovakia's banks are staggering under a
heavy load of bad loans. Since the state stopped subsidizing
industry in 1990, banks, in effect, have been doing so in its
place. State-owned companies borrow from state-owned banks
for such basics as salaries, interest payments and taxes.
Because the Finance Ministry counts invoices as taxable
profits, companies have to borrow to pay tax on profit they
haven't even earned yet.
   But Zivnobanka was forced to make its own way more than
three years ago. When the cash-strapped state refused to
grant Zivnobanka capital in 1988, the bank began
restructuring in the hope of attracting foreign investment.
Previously specializing in personal foreign-currency accounts
and international payments of noncommercial organizations, it
branched out into corporate finance -- but selectively.
   "We have no nonperforming loans. Three years ago we had 15
corporate customers, and now we have 2,500," Mr. Kunert says.
Of those, 90% are private and joint-stock companies, or joint
ventures. Only 10% of the bank's loans are to state
companies.
   The strategy has paid off. Last week, the Czechoslovak
government approved Zivnobanka's privatization project,
including the injection of $28.3 million from Berliner
Handels  Frankfurter Bank, based in Frankfurt, and
International FinanceCorp., an arm of the World Bank, giving
them 40% and 12% stakes, respectively, and more than doubling
Zivnobanka's capital to $51 million.
   The remaining 48% of the shares will go to the Czech and
Slovak republics' national property funds and will be offered
to the public as part of the first round of Czechoslovakia's
voucher privatization scheme. The result will be thousands of
small shareholders scattered throughout the country -- a
potentially frightening prospect to many would-be foreign
investors.
   "Fortunately, our German partner accepts this. They have
some experience, since they have over 20,000 shareholders
themselves," Mr. Kunert says.
   BHF's offer was accepted from among 16 bidders from
Germany, Austria, France and Italy. While BHF offered the
highest price, as a small, specialized merchant bank, it also
was most compatible with Zivnobanka's long-term aims of
expanding from corporate and trade finance into capital
markets and stock-exchange activities.
   The 39-year-old Mr. Kunert, who trained for five years in
London, admits to having "an Anglo-Saxon orientation."
   "My dream was to be, say, the 1,000th part of J.P. Morgan.
But we had no offers from British and American banks. It's
understandable -- America takes risks in Latin America, while
Germany takes them here," he says. Mr. Kunert says that he
hopes the participation of International Finance Corp. as a
passive investor will bring both credibility and credit
lines, channeling funds through Zivnobanka for other
investment and privatization projects in Czechoslovakia.
   The bank will operate abroad through BHF's branch network
in such cities as London, Singapore and Tokyo, while
Zivnobanka eventually may represent BHF in Poland, Ukraine
and the Baltic republics.
   Domestically, the bank has a branch in the Moravian city
of Brno and hopes to establish others in Bratislava, Plzen,
Ceske Budejovice and Karlovy Vary. It will still be a small
network, compared with other banks here, but this is part of
Zivnobanka's strategy -- to target a niche market, offering
quality services to a growing number of high-income
individuals. It is the first and only bank in Czechoslovakia
to offer Visa cards to its customers. Once a stock market
develops in Czechoslovakia, the bank's elite customers will
be offered investment accounts.
   "We don't want to be the biggest," Mr. Kunert says. "We
only want to be the best."