Winter Olympics 1992 -- On the Games:
   U.S. Sliders
   Firing Blanks
   In Olympics'
   Chuting War
   ----
   By Frederick C. Klein
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
And the cost of those runs runs well into eight figures,
meaning the sport can be performed only in about as many
places around the globe as we have fingers and toes. The bill
for the one built for the Winter Olympics here came to $44
million, and raised local residents' hackles because of
episodes of gas escaping from its refrigeration system.
   Luge's bureaucratic side was revealed nicely in the
smallish controversy that attended the two-day women's
singles event that concluded yesterday. Austrian sisters
Doris and Angelika Neuner were 1-2 after the first two runs
Tuesday (they wound up 1-2), but a couple of teams complained
that the Austrians had illegally fastened their booties,
which is what lugers call their footwear, to their uniform
pants in an effort to cut wind resistance a whit and save a
few nanoseconds. It was reported that the badge-wearers who
oversee the show met in solemn conclave for almost an hour
before deciding that no rules had been broken.
   Contrast that, if you will, with the sport in its natural
form, as practiced by Calvin of funny-paper fame. Calvin's
sled looks to be an American Flyer, his garb includes
standard winter coat and stocking cap, his courses are, well,
hills. And when he hurtles down them it is face forward, so
he can savor the catastrophies to come. That, friends, is
sledding.
   None of the above should be construed as derogatory toward
lugers, the sport's human component. By all accounts they are
brave, clean and reverent -- mostly, brave. They have to be
in order to do what they do, which is travel over 70 miles
per hour with only their rubber suits between them and ice
burn.
   And while lugers appear to be just along for the ride,
they really are busy steering their sleds. They do this
through subtle movements, mainly of the shoulders and legs.
Lugers also need a strong upper body for the push-pull motion
and ice paddling that start them down their twisting
inclines, and mighty neck muscles, the better to retain their
flat-as-possible postures while still being able to sneak
peeks at where they're going.
   The main tricks to luging fast, lugers say, are to find
the fastest "line" around the course and to stick to it with
the minimum of body motion. That's because the more one
squirms around on one's sled the more the sled wiggles, and
the slower it goes.
   "You've got to relax both physically and mentally," says
Duncan Kennedy, an American luger who lives in Lake Placid,
N.Y., site of the U.S.'s only Olympic-style track. He adds:
"The mental stuff really is important. Any doubts you have at
the top of the track will eat you up on your way down."
   As might be expected from the foregoing, luge is an
expensive sport with few serious competitors and, thus, is
susceptible to sustained assault. The Soviet Union and East
Germany were especially good at that, which is why they won
most of the medals since the sport went Olympic in 1964. The
U.S., on the other hand, has been blanked.
   Based on strong World Cup showings this season by the
24-year-old Mr. Kennedy, a fancy-free transplanted
Californian, and Cammy Myler, a quiet-seeming Dartmouth U.
student, that state of affairs was expected to change at
these Games. With only the men's doubles remaining, it has
not. Mr. Kennedy had trouble holding course on the second of
his four runs, and wound up 10th in the men's singles. Ms.
Myler was hit by a stomach virus the day before the women's
singles began, and while her fifth-place finish was the best
ever by a Yank, she still was 1.277 seconds behind winner
Doris Neuner. That's the equivalent of about three touchdowns
in football.
   Doris Neuner is 20 years old, two years younger than
sister and runner-up Angelika. The dark-haired pair are from
Innsbruck, which once had an Olympics (in 1964) and, thus,
has a luge track. Their father competed in the sport and an
aunt is a coach, which further help explain their prowess.
   Doris beat Angelika by a four-run total of 0.073 second.
The favorite, lanky-blonde Susi Erdmann of Germany, finished
third, 0.419 second behind the winner. She admitted to a bout
of nerves before her opening run Tuesday, and opined that the
resulting momentary hitch in her start cost her at least one
place in the standings. Sometimes you win, sometimes you. . .
. I won't say it.
   The Neuner sisters also talked about nerves afterward.
They share a room here, and said they kept each other awake
until 4 a.m. yesterday chattering to quiet their anxieties.
"But once we got on our sleds we felt fine," said Doris, a
secretary-typist by trade.
   The American women tipped their hoods to the winners.
"They're just so solid all-around. They keep their heads so
flat]" said 18th-place finisher Bonny Warner, the veteran of
the team at age 29 who is quitting the sport to better pursue
her career as a flight engineer for United Air Lines.
   And she professed to see better things ahead for Team US.
"We think we're capable of winning medals now, which wasn't
true four years ago, and we have some really promising
younger people coming up," she said.
   Hey, maybe they recruited Calvin.