REVIEW & OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   Science Fights Back
We also suspect that you are seeing more rigorous
scientific minds entering the policy debates simply because
restoring balance is in their self-interest. If "scientific"
studies are the reason that ever-larger slices of the tax
base get dedicated to grandiose and oversold environmental
goals, less money will be left to support serious scientific
research.
   There is also the matter of the credibility of science. If
the public comes to believe that "science" is responsible for
school budgets destroyed by asbestos mandates, or for
property values lowered by radon studies, or the higher
living costs passed along by firms complying with the Clean
Air Act, or jobs destroyed because "science" ordered the
rescue of the spotted owl, then the public may become less
sympathetic to the research community's pleas for ever more
financial support.
   Besides, can all this bad news possibly be true?
   The answer in most cases is that there may be a kernel of
truth in the warnings but there's often an undisclosed
reservoir of mitigating details that deserve to be aired.
   After a large survey of the literature on greenhouse
warming last year, most of the scientists on a panel of the
National Academy of Sciences said that the probable rise in
global temperatures wouldn't be dire. Moreover, the panel
drew attention to a truth that both environmentalists and
most of the reporters who cover these subjects ignore:
Humanity's record of technological innovation and adaptation
in the face of challenges such as global warming is
excellent. We're still here, aren't we?
   Dioxin. Two efforts -- a study published in the New
England Journal of Medicine last January and a symposium at
Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory -- acknowledged that dioxin is
a carcinogen but concluded that regulation of the chemical
needs to incorporate data suggesting its effects are not
necessarily dangerous under all circumstances.
   Endangered Species. The Endangered Species Act is up for
reauthorization this year. The battle between loggers' jobs
and advocates of the spotted owl in the Northwest makes it
clear that current enforcement practices have implications
for people, property and jobs. As with global warming, this
highly publicized issue is drawing the attention of
scientists who know something about the complex subject of
species survival and differentiation. Some of their caveats
were discussed in the August 16 issue of Science
("Extinction: Are Ecologists Crying Wolf?"). The
reauthorization debate should shed further light.
   Other examples accumulate of a richer scientific debate
over public policy. In May, the Chronicle of Higher Education
described scientists at the last meeting of the American
Physical Society who have serious doubts about the widely
publicized claim that electrical power-transmission lines
pose a significant cancer risk.
   A July 6 article in the New England Journal of Medicine by
three physicians from Columbia University, "Physicians and
the Animal-Rights Movement," concluded: "Having seen the
lives of the sick and their families savaged by illness,
doctors must help prevent ideology from blocking medical
progress."
   For all of this interest, Elizabeth Whelan, an
epidemiologist who heads the New York-based American Council
on Science and Health and who has been a leader in the effort
to involve working scientists in these subjects, has made an
intriguing observation about the behavior of scientists. She
notes that while it's often easy to get scientists mobilized
against the misuse of their own disciplines, they can be as
flaky as a flower child over some airy cause that is
undermining an unrelated discipline.
   Scientists need to appreciate that they're all in this
together. They have a common interest in stepping back from
the workbench long enough to support colleagues who've
stepped forward to examine publicly the nightmarish claims
made in the name of science. The good news is that more
scientists are doing just that.