Medicine:
   Test Developed
   For Defect Tied
   To Retardation
   ----
   By Jerry E. Bishop
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
About one in every 700 women is estimated to be a silent
carrier of the defective fragile-X gene and thus is at risk
of bearing a mentally retarded child. This is about the same
order of risk as in Down's syndrome, where one in every 800
pregnant women bears a child who is mentally retarded because
an accident of nature has given the child 47 chromosomes
instead of the normal 46.
   About half of the male children born of women carrying the
fragile X gene will be mentally retarded; about one-eighth of
female children of such carriers will be retarded, and
another quarter will have learning disabilities.
   With the new test, any pregnant woman could be tested
quickly and fairly cheaply to see if she is a carrier of the
defective fragile X gene. The test could be done with a
simple drop of blood or even cells taken from a mouth rinse,
explained W. Ted Brown, who headed the research team at North
Shore University Hospital in Manhasset, N.Y., that developed
the test. With improvements, the test could probably give the
woman an answer within 36 hours at cost of about $50, he
speculated.
   If the test shows the woman is a carrier, then she could
undergo the same prenatal testing procedures as are used in
Down's syndrome to see if the fetus has inherited the
defective fragile-X gene. These are either amniocentesis to
obtain samples of amniotic fluid or chorionic villus sampling
for placental cells. These tissue samples would then be
tested with the new genetic test for the fragile X defect.
   The new test is the latest in a series of rapid advances
against what is the most common inherited form of mental
retardation. The fragile X syndrome is so called because it
was first identified when researchers noticed that in
families seemingly haunted by mental retardation the
afflicted members seemed to have an X chromosome that tended
to break.
   Within the past year, researchers in the U.S., Australia
and Europe almost simultaneously pinpointed the exact genetic
defect that renders the X chromosome so fragile and
presumably causes the mental retardation. These breakthroughs
led to a test for the gene. The test, however, takes 10 days
to two weeks, costs $200 or so and, if the result is
negative, leaves some uncertainity as to whether it might
have missed the defective gene.
   The new test has been tried on members of more than 30
families that have some members with the fragile X syndrome,
Dr. Brown and his colleagues reported in the current issue of
the English medical journal The Lancet. In all cases, the
test correctly identified mothers who were silent carriers of
the defective gene, as well as those mothers who weren't
carriers.
   The researchers described in detail how the test
identified in one family a grandfather who was normal but had
passed a silent version of a fragile X defect to two of his
daughters. The test confirmed that one daughter's aborted
male fetus was afflicted and would have been retarded. The
other daughter had two mentally retarded children, a son and
a daughter, and the test detected the defect in both.
   The test was 100% reliable in identifying males who were
mentally retarded. However, additional research needs to be
done to make sure the test can identify female fetuses that
may be retarded, the researchers said.
   The new test makes use of the new PCR (for polymerase
chain reaction) technique for rapidly making billions of
copies of a tiny piece of DNA genetic material. The
technique, developed by Cetus Corp., is now owned by
Hoffmann-LaRoche Inc., the U.S. unit of Roche Holding Ltd. of
Switzerland.
   North Shore University Hospital, a teaching hospital of
Cornell University Medical College, has applied for a patent
on the new test, Dr. Brown said. Dr. Brown has since moved
research on the new test to the New York State Institute for
Basic Research on Developmental Disabilities on Staten
Island, N.Y. His research didn't have a corporate sponsor.