Campaign '92 -- Free-for-All:
   Nation's First Primary
   Looks More Exciting
   Than Pundits Foresaw
   ---
   Buchanan Might Sting Bush;
   Clinton Falters, Tsongas
   Gains, and Cuomo Hovers
   ---
   A Rally at the Palace Theater
   ----
   By James M. Perry and David Rogers
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
Gov. Bill Clinton of Arkansas, just 10 days ago the
Democratic front-runner, is slipping badly, rocked by
allegations about his private life and draft status during
the Vietnam war.
   Suddenly in the spotlight is former Massachusetts Sen.
Paul Tsongas, who has come seemingly out of nowhere. If the
Democratic primary were held today, he would win handily. But
this is a state where candidates have gone to bed the Friday
night before the election confident of victory, only to be
whipsawed in the campaign's final days and taste defeat on
Tuesday. One of New Hampshire's many imponderables: New York
Gov. Mario Cuomo, who decided not to run, is back in the
picture, with a sophisticated write-in campaign supporters
are waging on his behalf.
   All this, of course, could change again by Tuesday's
primary here. Mr. Clinton could make a stunning comeback. Mr.
Tsongas could stumble. Mr. Bush knows what both of those
eventualities feel like: In 1980, he lost here (to Ronald
Reagan) after many thought he'd win; in 1988, he won (over
Bob Dole) after many thought he'd lose.
   Despite Mr. Bush's visit to New Hampshire two days ago,
the Boston Globe/ WBZ-TV tracking poll last night showed him
leading Mr. Buchanan by 50% to 33%, continuing an erosion of
his margin over the last week. The survey has shown a serious
decline in Mr. Bush's standing among male voters. In the
Democratic field, Mr. Tsongas retained his lead in the poll,
but there is evidence of a small bounce-back by Mr. Clinton.
   For both parties, the stakes are big. This is where the
Democrats, splintered for years, had hoped to put themselves
back together. A month ago, many thought they had found a
consensus champion in Gov. Clinton, who was poised to win the
primary. Now, the party is in trouble again.
   But so are the Republicans, who have themselves begun to
unravel. Mr. Bush had hoped to set off from here on a
dignified march to renomination, followed by another triumph
in the general election. But, campaigning here in the midst
of bad economic times, he faces the risk that the savvy
street-fighter Mr. Buchanan could pull off a surprising
upset.
   "No one's closing the sale," says Bush strategist Thomas
Rath.
   None of the five Democrats in the race -- Gov. Clinton,
Mr. Tsongas, Sens. Bob Kerrey of Nebraska and Tom Harkin of
Iowa and former California Gov. Jerry Brown -- have locked up
their primary either.
   Earlier this week, Gov. Clinton had hoped he had put
behind him the flap over how he avoided the draft during the
period in 1969 when he had been told he was likely to be
called up. Then, on Wednesday, a letter he wrote that year
tripped him up all over again. He began another sharp drop in
the polls.
   "At least I was involved in the issues of my times," Gov.
Clinton said on ABC News' "Nightline" program.
   Gov. Clinton's drop in the polls has left many voters with
a lingering sense of regret. "I really did like him. I
actually felt excitement," says Meredith McGraw, a
40-year-old photographer's representative in Manchester. She
had planned to vote for him and now is undecided which of the
others to support.
   Mr. Clinton's financial strength -- he picked up $600,000
at a New York fundraiser this week -- might give him an
opportunity to slog on. But beyond the specifics of the
issues dogging him, some voters say they are bothered by a
glibness and desire to please all sides they feel he has
displayed in handling his crises.
   "If you get caught with your hand in the cookie jar, how
do you explain why your hand was there?" asks Gary Powers, a
40-year-old Marine veteran who is torn about voting for Mr.
Clinton.
   Mr. Clinton's problem may be exacerbated by the fact that
one of his rivals, Sen. Kerrey, served in the Navy during the
Vietnam war and won the Congressional Medal of Honor for
heroism in a night attack in 1969. Sen. Harkin, who got a
small bounce out of winning the Iowa caucuses Monday, also
served in the Navy during the Vietnam era, based in Japan.
   But the candidate who has apparently gained the most from
Gov. Clinton's travails is Mr. Tsongas. Derided for his
low-key, buttoned-down style, he began drawing big crowds
here last week. Mr. Tsongas may be the first Democrat in
history to use "No Santa Claus]" as a rallying cry. While
many congressional Democrats are pushing middle-class tax
breaks and a harder line on trade with Japan, he opposes
these tax cuts and preaches a free-trade, pro-business gospel
that leaves no room for protectionist measures.
   Mr. Tsongas's experiences as a cancer survivor have shaped
his campaign. At a rally in Manchester's old Palace Theater,
with searchlights panning the sky outside, he delivered a
poignant personal message to hundreds of enthusiastic
supporters. "What is life?" he asked. "To live, to eat, to
breathe, to sleep? It has to be more than that."
   But this part of his life -- what he calls his
spirituality -- is entwined with a more material emphasis on
economics. "You cannot redistribute wealth if you never
create it," he told the cheering crowd at the Palace.
   Still, no one concedes Mr. Tsongas is a shoo-in to win the
Democratic nomination. "There is hardly an air of
inevitability about Paul, which is why I say the race is wide
open," says Sen. Kerrey.
   Mr. Kerrey has his own problems. His campaign often gives
hints of what might have been. His positions on trade and
industrial policy show sophistication, but he is languishing
in the polls. Sen. Kerrey may yet benefit from Mr. Clinton's
troubles, and win over former Clinton voters looking for a
new candidate. But there are new challenges for this
underdog. At a Head Start center the other day, reading to a
group of children, Sen. Kerrey ad-libbed to the kids: "Don't
write in Mario Cuomo's name]"
   Mr. Cuomo is clearly reveling in the attention from the
write-in campaign that a group of Chicago supporters is
conducting. "They're saying lousy things about me in New
York," he told students at Harvard University Wednesday
night. "Why shouldn't they say nice things about me in New
Hampshire?" The crowd loved it.
   Nobody really knows what to make of the Cuomo effort. But
Republican pollster Richard Wirthlin, in a breakfast
interview with reporters in Washington, says the governor is
"head and shoulders above" other potential Democratic
candidates, particularly in his ability to take on President
Bush. Despite "some baggage" caused by New York's budget
problems, Mr. Wirthlin calls Mr. Cuomo "very formidable"
because of his name recognition, his ability to communicate
forcefully and his "passionate commitment" to a Democratic
agenda with just enough new elements that it can't be cast as
old and tired.
   In the campaign's closing days, Mr. Clinton is seeking a
second chance from the voters. In Dover on Wednesday, he gave
a strong, emotional performance at a rally; yesterday, he
held a televised roundtable discussion with voters, and in a
Concord appearance took aim at Mr. Tsongas, arguing that "I
am the only one who not only has a concrete, coherent plan .
. . but a record, a lifetime of doing things that put paper
into action." Like all the other candidates, he's looking for
a boost from Sunday night's candidate debate, which will be
televised over the Cable News Network.
   For his part, Sen. Harkin has sought to win votes by going
on the attack against the other candidates. His
rough-and-tumble style is aimed at working-class Democrats,
and he could pose trouble particularly for Mr. Clinton not
only in New Hampshire, but also among black voters in the
South.
   On the Republican side of the primary, Mr. Bush has his
hands full with the contentious Pat Buchanan, whose furious
attack has knocked the president off his stride. Mr. Buchanan
held high-level jobs for Presidents Nixon and Reagan. To him,
there is no mystique about the Oval Office or the man who
occupies it. He describes Mr. Bush as a decent man of
integrity, but that is strictly for the record. In his stump
speeches, he drips contempt for Mr. Bush and his privileged
background.
   "Take us down the freedom road to Kennebunkport, and dump
the king's tea into the harbor," says Mr. Buchanan in one of
his fiery and well-crafted speeches, urging what he calls "a
little rebellion" in GOP politics. Mr. Bush maintains a
summer home in Kennebunkport, a Maine seaside resort.
   Mr. Buchanan is finding a receptive audience among New
Hampshirites looking for a way to register their anger about
the economy. William Calef, who owns a family grocery store
in Barrington, is an independent who can vote in either
primary -- and who doesn't know whether to vote for one of
the Democrats, or for Mr. Buchanan. "We have to send some
kind of message to both George Bush and Congress," he says.
"People are fed up."
   Mr. Buchanan, Mr. Calef says, "tends to be a little
ultraconservative. But people are so frustrated they just
don't care."
   The Bush-Buchanan battle is being waged essentially on TV.
Each day this week on the main TV station in the state, both
Mr. Bush and Mr. Buchanan placed ads on every show the
station aired, from "Geraldo" in the morning to the 11
o'clock news at night. Mr. Bush typically runs 29 ads a day,
Mr. Buchanan 27.
   Mr. Buchanan's basic charge is that Mr. Bush betrayed a
solemn pledge, first made to the voters of New Hampshire,
that he would not raise taxes. His broader theme is that Mr.
Bush has sold out the conservative cause he inherited from
Ronald Reagan, and by doing so has sold out the people of New
Hampshire. "Until I came up and announced my candidacy," he
says in one of his TV ads, "those people in Washington
behaved as if they did not care."
   The Bush campaign, says Paul Erickson, Mr. Buchanan's
political director, "does nothing but react to our campaign.
It's pathetic."
   Mr. Bush's initial reaction was to blame the
Democratic-controlled Congress for his budget problems. "That
doesn't cut at all," says Frank Luntz, Mr. Buchanan's
pollster: Three years into Mr. Bush's administration, "it's
too late to blame Congress." But not all voters agree. "I
don't think it's all his fault," Patricia West, a Manchester
homemaker, says of the president. "Congress is basically in
charge. He's not God."
   Mr. Buchanan notes that the 1990 budget compromise that
resulted in the tax increase "was negotiated by a fellow who
bears a startling resemblance to your own John Sununu." Mr.
Sununu, a former New Hampshire governor, was the White House
chief of staff. He is not a popular figure here.
   There's no question that there's plenty of beef in the
Buchanan campaign. He says that, as president, he would
demand an across-the-board federal hiring and spending
freeze. He would seek a two-year moratorium on all new
federal regulations and personally lobby state legislators
for congressional term limits. He says he would pull
most-favored-nation trading status from China and "put Deng
Xiaoping and Li Peng into Chapter 11, rather than Macy's and
TWA."
   Mr. Bush and his campaign have pushed hard to label Mr.
Buchanan a protectionist. Mr. Bush still hasn't attacked Mr.
Buchanan by name, but there was no doubt whom he had in mind
when he spoke to the state legislature in Concord on
Wednesday: "Boil away all the tough talk, all the swagger and
all the patriotic posturing, and protectionism amounts to
nothing more than a smokescreen for a country that's running
scared, and that's not the America you and I know."
   Mr. Buchanan's strategists claim his base support is
solid. "We will not go under 30%," predicts Mr. Luntz, the
pollster. If Mr. Buchanan cuts seriously into the undecided
vote, he could go higher, and his "little rebellion" would be
under way.
   But Bush strategists count on eventually wooing back
voters like Richard Warren. Mr. Warren, a 58-year-old state
employee who voted for the president four years ago, now says
that "Bush has been a terrible disappointment to me." But Mr.
Warren's dilemma is that he isn't enthusiastic about any of
the other candidates, either.