Foreign Exchange:
   Dollar Retreats After French Official
   Says G-7 Will Seek to Strengthen Yen
   ----
   By John van Rosendaal
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
The statements by French Economics Minister Pierre
Beregovoy also led to a sell-off of marks for yen, leaving
the mark at 77.57 yen, down from 77.96 yen late Tuesday.
   In early trading in Tokyo Thursday, the dollar was at
123.30 yen, down slightly from 123.34 yen at Wednesday's
close. The U.S. currency also was trading at 1.5920 marks, up
from 1.5875 marks at Wednesday's close.
   Mr. Beregovoy was the first monetary official to tell the
foreign-exchange markets that finance ministers and central
bankers of the Group of Seven industrialized nations will
address currency levels at their meeting this weekend in
Garden City, N.Y.
   Although the French minister's comments gave some
direction to trading, the market remains nervous.
   "We are in a very sensitive, critical area right now,"
said Joe Sabbagh, chief trader at European American Capital
Corp. He said the market mood could swing drastically on more
substantial news out of the G-7 talks.
   Mr. Beregovoy said the G-7 monetary officials will focus
on ways for the yen to strengthen without allowing the dollar
to fall against European currencies.
   He stressed that the yen's strengthening should be
accomplished gradually, without "any brutal movements."
   Mr. Beregovoy said G-7 officials will examine ways in
which they can cooperate to stimulate economic growth in a
non-inflationary way and with monetary stability.
   The market took the news as a cue to lift the dollar and
the yen against the mark, especially because many dealers had
expected the dollar to edge lower and had to cover short, or
oversold, positions.
   Mr. Beregovoy's remarks point to a "slim likelihood of
intervention" by central banks to pressure the dollar against
European currencies, said Dennis Pettit, a vice president and
foreign-exchange manager at Long-Term Credit Bank of Japan,
New York.
   The news also softened the impact of earlier reports that
Johnson Smick International, a Washington consulting firm,
said in its latest newsletter that the Deutsche Bundesbank
wanted to intervene against the dollar with the New York Fed
and the Bank of Japan last Friday, but was dissuaded by the
British and French central banks from joining in the dollar
selling.
   The dollar eased slightly in Tokyo trading after rumors
about the Johnson Smick report entered the market. The
newsletter's impact on trading may have been muted since it
apparently didn't indicate whether the German central bank
wanted to sell dollars for marks or yen, traders said.
   Several other developments underpinned the dollar, with
December U.S. housing starts data giving the currency a brief
lift early in the North American day. Housing starts were up
2.6% in December to an annual rate of 1.1 million, making the
month's starts the strongest of 1991.
   In 1991, housing starts totaled one million, down 14.9%
from the 1.2 million units started in 1990 and the lowest
since 1945, when 325,000 units were started.
   Upbeat comments by Federal Reserve Gov. John Laware also
firmed the dollar. Mr. Laware said a gradual economic
recovery is under way in the U.S. that will reach all parts
of the country by year-end. "I think we're in a genuine
recovery," Mr. Laware said, adding: "Unfortunately it's very
slow."
   With the market plagued by "G-7 jitters," the dollar will
consolidate until the weekend, according to Albert Soria,
first vice president and foreign exchange manager in New York
for Kansallis Osake Pankki, a Finnish commercial bank. He
said the dollar might trade up to 1.60 marks as traders
square their books ahead of the meeting.
   Mr. Sabbagh said he is upbeat on the dollar's future, as
he expects European interest rates to decline in the coming
months, preventing a significant slowdown of the economies of
several countries.
   But Mr. Soria said dealers might decide to wait until
President Bush's State of the Union address on Jan. 28 before
giving the dollar a substantial push either way. Mr. Bush is
expected to announce initiatives to revive the U.S. economy.