THE 1993 BUDGET: Bush's Antidote to Recession
   ---
   Pentagon Cutbacks Will Reshape
   Northrop and General Dynamics
   ----
   By Rick Wartzman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The two companies, both financially sound enough to
withstand the cuts, will nonetheless be reshaped. Northrop,
which once dreamed of having its name on a wide array of the
military's front-line bombers and fighters, will no longer be
the prime contractor on any aircraft program after the 20th
B-2 is completed. The company, which derives about half its
revenue from the bomber, had been preparing to manufacture 75
of them.
   Meanwhile, General Dynamics said the administration's move
to halt the Seawolf project -- after the company finishes the
one vessel now under construction -- will have "major
implications" for its Electric Boat division, where more than
20,000 are employed. It wouldn't immediately elaborate.
   Even those companies that came through the Pentagon's
latest spending proposal relatively unscathed expressed
concern, noting that President Bush's plan to chop $50
billion out of the military budget through fiscal 1997
represents a new ceiling, not a floor.
   "What we are painfully aware of is that any president's
budget is a starting position that becomes a target for even
further reductions," said John McDonnell, the chairman of
McDonnell Douglas Corp., which is working on two big-ticket
aircraft, the C-17 transport and the F/A-18 fighter, that are
slated to proceed apace under the Pentagon's latest plans.
   Indeed, despite Mr. Bush's pledge that he will go "this
deep, and no deeper," Democrats on Capitol Hill are already
clamoring for additional cutbacks, and lawmakers are sure to
try to protect programs in their districts at the expense of
others. "There's so much pork in Congress on these issues,
who knows what will emerge on the other end," said Malcolm
Currie, the chairman of General Motors Corp.'s Hughes
Aircraft Co. division.
   Wary of Congress's intentions, some executives are already
lobbying to avoid more cuts. "America must not over-reduce
its military capabilities in times of peace, later paying for
the mistake in lives rather than dollars," asserted Norman
Augustine, chairman of Martin Marietta Corp., whose ADATS
mobile air-defense system was terminated by the Pentagon.
   The most immediate effect of the Defense Department's new
plans will be on jobs. The B-2 project alone employs 40,000
people directly, and economic studies have shown that as many
as 120,000 jobs are tied to the program. Northrop said it
would elminate about 1,500 posts this year as a result of the
cuts. The timing of further layoffs will depend on production
schedules.
   Boeing Co., a principal B-2 subcontractor, also said it
would let go as many as 2,000 people on the bomber program in
1992. "When it comes to the scientist or the highly skilled
technician, I just don't see anything for them to go into,"
lamented C.G. King, executive vice president of Boeing's
defense division.
   Boeing is also feeling the effects of the military's new
strategy to focus on research as opposed to high rates of
production. The Pentagon said specifically that it would
concentrate on building prototypes of the Comanche
helicopter, which Boeing is developing with United
Technologies Corp. Other Boeing programs that Mr. Bush
directed to be slashed, including the MX and Midgetman
missiles, had already been significantly scaled back last
year in the wake of the failed Kremlin coup.
   Many companies stressed that they are strong enough to
weather the downturn. General Dynamics, which also was hit by
a diminished order for the advanced cruise missile, noted
that the budget proposal would reduce the company's year-end
1991 backlog of more than $25 billion by less than 4%.
   Moreover, in some cases, a cut in one program has
triggered the acceleration of another. General Dynamics, for
instance, already has begun design work on a smaller, less
expensive attack sub. And Rockwell International Corp. sees
potential gains in conversion of the B-1 bomber fleet to
conventional use from nuclear capability. "Quite frankly,
we're very pleased," said Sam Iacobellis, Rockwell's chief
operating officer. "I have to assume this means additional
business for us."
   Even Northrop seems to have the financial wherewithal to
survive. Under current schedules, the company is to complete
the 16th B-2 in 1995. By that time, Northrop's debt could be
nil, and it expects to have some $2 billion in borrowing
power. Its other aerospace programs will still provide a
business base of as much as $3.5 billion a year.
   Still, few have any doubts that the defense industry is
just beginning a long and painful shakeout -- a sentiment the
stock market apparently agrees with because the prices for
military contractors' shares generally tumbled yesterday.
Said Mr. McDonnell: "Even the survivors will be much leaner."