New York Merc
   Pulls Out of Plan
   For New Building
   ----
   By Stanley W. Angrist and Neil Barsky
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
The other four exchanges vowed to press ahead with the
project, and the Merc said it is interested in pursuing other
possibilities with the city. Last year, the exchange
considered moving to New Jersey, but instead agreed to a $155
million package of tax and energy savings from New York City
and the state for the five exchanges to remain together in
the city.
   Escalating costs apparently were a key reason the Merc
broke with the pack. As originally proposed, the building was
estimated to cost $250 million to $260 million. More recent
estimates place the cost at $280 to $300 million, say people
who have been following the building plans. Because the Merc
is the largest exchange, some of its members feared they
would be stuck with the extra costs.
   In an interview, R. Patrick Thompson, president of the
Merc, said "current economic and financing conditions" would
prohibit many member firms from moving into the proposed
tower. Trading volume on the five exchanges declined by
nearly 11% in the first 11 months of last year. That implies
a substantial drop in commission and fee revenue for member
firms.
   Also, Mr. Thompson said, the exchanges were having trouble
consolidating their operating systems, which was supposed to
have achieved substantial operating cost savings.
   "The next step in very short order will be considering
other alternatives -- but not tonight," Mr. Thompson said. "I
have assured the city" that the exchange wants "to move
forward with a relocation project in the city with their
help, cooperation and partnership."
   Some people close to the Merc said the exchange might want
to acquire an older building and remodel it, which would cost
considerably less than new construction.
   The other four exchanges denied the Merc's contention that
consolidating operating systems was a problem and "reaffirmed
their commitment to proceed" with the project. "The current
status of the project is that it is ahead of schedule, on
budget and is moving through the city and state review
process," they said.