Global Trading
   Via Nasdaq System
   To Start Jan. 20
   ----
   By Anne Newman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
If Nasdaq International catches on, U.S. stocks will take
an important step toward global 24-hour trading. And the
system could bring some trading in U.S. stocks back from the
London Stock Exchange. Nasdaq's arch-rival, the New York
Stock Exchange, will be forced to respond with its own
version of an early-trading session if Nasdaq succeeds,
traders say. Indeed, the Big Board already has a blueprint
for an early-hours session that officials expect will include
trading in big foreign stocks, as well as U.S. shares.
   Interest, however, in Nasdaq International is likely to
build slowly. "I think it will be pretty much of a
chicken-and-an-egg situation," cautions NASD President Joseph
Hardiman, who says he is under no illusions about how quickly
the system will take off. "We've always said it will be very
slow out of the box."
   Nasdaq International marks the first overseas expansion of
Nasdaq, the NASD's electronic trading system for U.S.
over-the-counter stocks. With 4,600 stocks, Nasdaq is already
the country's second-biggest stock market and the world's
fourth-largest.
   Nasdaq International will start its trading with six U.S.
and British brokerage firms that have offices in London; each
has computer terminals there that will allow them to trade
U.S. stocks electronically over Nasdaq during London trading
hours.
   Initially, trading on Nasdaq International will be limited
to about 100 of the largest U.S. OTC stocks and about 100 of
the largest stocks listed on the Big Board, Mr. Hardiman
says.
   How will the system work? At Shearson Lehman Brothers
Inc., for example, customers in the U.S. and Europe will be
able to call Shearson's office in London to conduct
early-morning trades. Shearson tentatively plans to trade
only about 20 large OTC stocks, including Microsoft Corp. and
Apple Computer Inc. "It's a toe in the water," says Michael
Benson, Shearson's director of U.S. equities in London.
   Currently, Shearson and other big U.S. brokerage firms
have no plans to answer phones at pre-dawn hours in the U.S.,
unless demand for trading on Nasdaq International grows.
   Other brokerage firms that will be trading on Nasdaq
International include Morgan Stanley  Co., Goldman Sachs 
Co., First Boston Corp., UBS Phillips  Drew and Bernard L.
Madoff Securities, a U.S. third-market dealer.
   However, Nasdaq International faces a host of skeptics.
Large investors in Britain and Europe worry that trading
volume will be so light they won't be able to buy or sell
large blocks of stock; brokerage firms fret that they won't
have enough business to execute trades at competitive prices.
   Discount broker Charles Schwab Corp. is leery of Nasdaq
International because of certain restrictions limiting when
traders can sell stock short, or borrow stock to sell in
hopes of replacing it later at lower prices. These
restrictions currently are under review by the Securities and
Exchange Commission, which approved Nasdaq International last
fall.
   Nonetheless, interest among Schwab's U.S. customers in
expanded trading hours is strong enough that the San
Francisco firm plans to offer tradings in U.S. stocks on the
London exchange from 6 a.m. to 9 a.m., says Schwab Executive
Vice President Ron Readmond.
   And Nasdaq International is intriguing such big investors
as Fidelity Investments, the Boston mutual fund group.
   Alex Lamont, senior international trader for Fidelity,
expects there will be some demand from Fidelity customers --
particularly if major geopolitical news or news on an
individual company breaks before U.S. markets open. "I could
see us coming in and having someone call us at 8 a.m. or 7
a.m., or even 4 a.m., and wanting to do something," he says.
   One thing Mr. Lamont likes about Nasdaq International is
the greater information about stock prices. Investors who
trade U.S. stocks in London in other markets aren't required
to publicly disclose trades.
   On Nasdaq International, up-to-date stock prices will be
quoted, although trading volume on each stock won't be
available until the end of each early-morning session. That's
more information than has previously been available to
investors who trade U.S. stocks outside of U.S. trading
hours, "in the dark" in London or on off-exchange systems.
   "Hopefully, Nasdaq International will provide us with some
visibility and some added comfort-level," says Mr. Lamont,
who expects interest in the system to build slowly.
   Interest, indeed, seems more keen in the U.S. than in
Europe, where some large investors seem perfectly content to
trade U.S. stocks during the few afternoon hours there when
trading overlaps with U.S. markets. "We don't really need to
trade after hours," says Thierry Carnal, a vice president
with Bank Brussels Lambert Switzerland in Geneva. Mr. Carnal
adds that he can already invest in many big U.S. stocks
through other vehicles, such as Swiss certificates traded in
his home country.
   "We've lived very well with the U.S. markets opening in
the afternoon," agrees Davina Walter, a director with
London's Henderson Investment Management, which manages about
$1.4 billion in U.S. stocks. She, too, is cautious. "We need
to feel that typically we can comfortably trade 20,000 shares
of a stock and be happy with the price," she says.
   However, the powerful rally in small U.S. stocks that
continues this year may boost interest in the early-hours
system. Henderson's Ms. Walter, for example, manages the
firm's American Smaller Company Trust, which rose 67% last
year. She normally buys and sells her shares through regional
U.S. brokers, but says she might consider Nasdaq
International if trading is heavy. "If the volume is there
and the prices are the best for our clients, I'm sure we'll
participate," she says.
   But with U.S. stocks at record highs, Shearson's Mr.
Benson expects that Europeans won't participate heavily
unless the U.S. stock market falls sharply and offers them a
buying opportunity.
   Meanwhile, the Big Board is closely watching the Nasdaq
International launch. "I know the Big Board is concerned,"
says Frank Massey, head of international equity trading in
New York for Shearson Lehman. "They had two people in my
office when I got back from vacation, wanting to know what
Lehman was going to do."
   William Donaldson, the Big Board's chairman, recently
shrugged off questions about whether the system threatens the
New York exchange. "We feel very strongly we have the most
efficient market," he said. "The burden of proof is on anyone
who trades away from this market."