Marketing  Media:
   CBS Wins No. 1 Spot in Ratings Race,
   May See Profit From Olympic Games
   ----
   By Kevin Goldman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
But CBS's huge investment -- $243 million for TV rights
plus $100 million for coverage and promotion -- meant that it
paid $3 million an hour for the Games as prime-time
programming. That was triple the cost of the network's usual
comedies and dramas -- which cost about $1 million an hour
and can be aired twice -- to attract an audience that was
roughly 20% to 25% larger than the one for its popular Monday
night lineup of comedies.
   CBS executives said the objective wasn't to be
cost-conscious but to get the network on a steady footing.
"We're No. 1 again, and the mood here and among the
affiliates couldn't be better," said Howard Stringer,
president of the CBS Broadcast Group.
   By some estimates CBS faced a possible loss of $3 million
on the Games and even more if it failed to deliver the
audience of 17% of U.S. homes that it had guaranteed
advertisers. But the network avoided that prospect by turning
in surprisingly strong ratings. CBS drew an average of 19.1%
of U.S. homes with TV sets for the 15 nights of Olympics
coverage that began Feb. 8. That was down only slightly from
the 19.5% rating for Capital Cities/ABC Inc.'s coverage of
the 1988 Winter Games in Calgary. Final numbers won't be
available from A.C. Nielsen Co. until tomorrow.
   Allan E. Howard, president of CBS affiliate KHOU in
Houston, said he is "elated" with the numbers and praised the
network for its heavy promotion of the Games.
   Sponsors including Merrill Lynch  Co. and Visa USA Inc.
were similarly upbeat. "What more could we ask for? The
ratings were great," said a spokesman for Visa. But
advertisers hedged on whether they would sponsor CBS's
coverage of the next Winter Games in Lillehammer, Norway, in
1994. Merrill Lynch, one of the largest sponsors of the 1992
Games, said that although it was pleased with the results, it
"hasn't made any decision on 1994."
   It is unclear what effect CBS's ratings bonanza might have
when the networks bid for the 1996 Winter Olympics in
Atlanta. Bidding hasn't been scheduled. "The International
Olympics Committee would like to see the economy get stronger
before bidding begins," said Barry Frank, president of Trans
World International Inc., a television sports packager and a
past consultant to the committee. "A great rating is one
thing," said Mr. Frank, "but I don't see a huge improvement
in the advertising marketplace."
   (See related letters: "Letters to the Editor: CBS at the
Olympics: Absolute Abomination" -- WSJ March 16, 1992)
   920224-0138