LEISURE  ARTS -- Theater:
   The Rivalry Behind the Riot
   ----
   By Edwin Wilson
It is difficult for us today to imagine the role that
theater played in the lives of Americans in the mid-1800s.
There was no radio, television or film, and so live theater
took the place of all three, in addition to fulfilling its
historic role as dramatic entertainment. It offered both
escape and instruction: One of the most popular melodramas of
all time, "Uncle Tom's Cabin," opened in 1852 and was a
runaway hit for the rest of the century. (It was in the 1850s
also that P.T. Barnum launched another highly successful
popular entertainment: the circus.) Nor were the theater
patrons in those days detached spectators: They were ardent
partisans, as would become evident when a man seen as a rival
to Forest, the Englishman William Charles Macready, came to
the U.S. in 1849.
   Macready was the leading British actor in the second
quarter of the 19th century. Combining dignity with emotion,
Macready was also noted for introducing realism into his
performances, such things as domestic details from everyday
life.
   Prior to Macready's visit, Forest had made two forays to
England. His first trip, in 1836, was a modest success, but
his second, in 1845, met with open hostility, which both
Forest and his fans blamed on Macready. Therefore, when
Macready appeared in "Macbeth" on May 7, 1849, at the Astor
Place Theater, located in lower Manhattan near the present
Public Theater, patrons loyal to Forest were ready for him.
The performance was barely under way when they raised such a
ruckus that it had to be called off.
   A group of upper-class New Yorkers, deeply embarrassed by
the treatment Macready had received, prevailed on him to
appear again in "Macbeth" on May 10, three nights later,
assuring him of his safety as well as a warm reception. It
was a mistake. The dimensions of the event went far beyond
the rivalry of two actors. Patrician New Yorkers saw Forest
as a rough-hewn upstart invading their cultural preserves;
ordinary working people saw the Astor Place as an elite
temple for the effete. It was the New World vs. the Old,
America vs. England, the common people vs. the aristocracy.
   Inside the theater on that fateful night, audiences were
equally divided between supporters and detractors of
Macready, but outside there was an angry mob of 15,000 who
hurled stones at police and attempted to force their way into
the theater. Troops were called out, and when a cavalry
charge was turned back by the crowd, the infantry moved in.
Following an abortive bayonet attack, troops fired on the
mob, killing 22 people and seriously wounding dozens of
others.
   In "Two Shakespearean Actors," Mr. Nelson touches on many
of the issues raised by riot but doesn't come to grips with
any of them. The play does not even accurately depict the
different acting styles of the two protagonists. There is a
lengthy episode, for example, in which scenes of Macready
(Brian Bedford) rehearsing "Macbeth" with his company are
cross-cut with Forest (Victor Garber) rehearsing the same
play. What emerges are clever vignettes of two ham actors in
full cry. Mr. Bedford is extremely funny when directing
secondary actors always to focus on him; to look upstage when
he is looking at the audience, to lower their heads when he
raises his. And Mr. Garber can hold his own as a
full-throated Shakespearean hero. Mr. Bedford is slightly
more rhetorical and less athletic than Mr. Garber, but
essentially both practice the same overinflated elocution,
and there is little to choose between them.
   When Mr. Nelson attempts to be more specific he doesn't do
any better. In contrasting the way the two actors would
prepare for the madness of King Lear, Macready says to
Forest: "You study asylums; I study the play." This is a
20th-century idea -- that Forest goes to real life and
Macready looks to the text, but, as just noted, Macready was
known for his realism.
   The play is filled with subplots. John Ryder (Zeljko
Ivanek) is an obsequious actor who moves back and forth
between the two stars attempting to get in their good graces;
Forest is caught in a triangle involving his wife (Frances
Conroy) and his mistress, Jane Bass (Jennifer Van Dyck), a
young actress in his troupe; playwright Dion Boucicault (Eric
Stoltz) turns up as a womanizer on the loose; and author
Washington Irving (Tom Aldredge) appears as the
representative of the upper classes who persuades Macready to
make his second, ill-fated appearance. Sadly, there is no
focus to all this activity.
   Even so, there are many pleasures to be had in this play.
Not only Messrs. Bedford and Garber but many others in this
unusually large cast are talented performers; director Jack
O'Brien clearly has great affection for the aspirations and
foibles of theater people; and many episodes in the play, in
and of themselves, are highly theatrical.
   What one is aware of most, however, is the wasted
potential. The issues raised by the Astor Place imbroglio
remain relevant today: Actors Equity still tries to ban
British performers from appearing here, and vice versa; class
divisions are at the heart of much political campaigning; and
the potential for bloodshed and loss of life at events of
mass entertainment is ever present. For sad proof, one need
look no further than the recent tragedy at City College here,
in which nine people were trampled to death trying to get
through a narrow passageway at a celebrity basketball
tournament featuring rap-music stars.
   The theater badly needs provocative plays if it is to come
even remotely close to the popularity it enjoyed in the days
when Forest and Macready trod the boards. So it is more in
sadness than anger that we note Mr. Nelson's failure to help
the cause.