Economy:
   Producer Prices
   Fell in December
   And All of 1991
   ---
   Fall of 0.2% for Month, 0.1%
   For Year Show Sluggish,
   Inflation-Free Economy
   ----
   By Rose Gutfeld
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
"We're still in a recession," said Robert Dederick, chief
economist at Northern Trust Co. in Chicago. "We're having the
benefits of it on the price front but the cost of it on the
labor front." Charles Lieberman, an economist at Chemical
Bank's Chemical Securities Inc. in New York, agreed: "The
economy is weak and that weakness is moderating inflation."
   The price drop for 1991 was the first since a 2.3% decline
in 1986, when falling energy prices also were a big factor.
   Despite the weakness in the labor market and the
encouraging inflation news, the Federal Reserve is unlikely
to cut interest rates immediately, particularly since it made
a bigger-than-usual move at the end of December. Because that
move was so well-received in financial markets and elsewhere,
some Fed officials are now inclined to make fewer but bigger
moves than has been the recent custom.
   The Fed said yesterday that the important M2 measure of
the money supply fell sharply in the week ended Dec. 30, as
it did the week before. At least one Fed official discounted
the significance of the decline, suggesting it mainly
reflected a shift of funds out of cash and into the soaring
stock market. He predicted that M2 would soon begin climbing
again at a healthy pace. But for the whole year, M2 rose only
2.3%, below the bottom of the Fed's 2.5% to 6.5% target
range. (M2 includes currency, checking and savings accounts,
money market funds and some certificates of deposit.)
   Fed Chairman Alan Greenspan probably will be quizzed on
the slow money-supply growth when he testifies in the Senate
this afternoon.
   Two Nobel Prize-winning economists told the congressional
Joint Economic Committee yesterday that the Fed should cut
interest rates further. Criticizing the Greenspan Fed for
having done "too little, too late," Paul Samuelson of the
Massachusetts Institute of Technology said the Fed should cut
short-term interest rates another full percentage point. And
James Tobin of Yale University concurred.
   "Despite the interest-rate cuts that the Fed has already
made, they still have unused ammunition," Mr. Tobin said.
   In December, energy prices plunged 1.4% after holding
steady the month before. Further declines are probably ahead,
reflecting warm winter weather and the glut of oil on world
spot markets. Prices of gasoline and home heating oil both
fell. For the year, energy prices were down 9.6%, with
gasoline declining more than 25%.
   Food prices fell last month and all of 1991. If food and
energy are excluded to give what many economists consider the
core rate of inflation, prices edged up 0.2% last month.
   In November, producer prices rose 0.2%, or 0.3% after food
and energy were excluded.
   For the full year, prices excluding food and energy
increased 3.1%.
   The rise in jobless claims, to a total 458,000, was from a
revised 436,000 in the previous week. Claims typically fall
during a holiday week, but the Labor Department said that's
not necessarily so during Christmas. Still, several
economists suggested that the figure may understate the
weakness in the labor market because it occurred during a
four-day period. Moreover, while it's dangerous to read too
much into volatile and frequently revised weekly numbers, the
bigger picture isn't bright either.
   Mr. Lieberman said, "The underlying trend shows no
improvement. Initial claims have been rising over the past
couple of months."
   The department is to issue its report on December
unemployment this morning.
   The four-week average for the period ended Dec. 28 was a
seasonally adjusted 462,000, up from an average of 451,000
for the period ended Dec. 21.
   In the week ended Dec. 21, a total of 3,175,000 people, or
3% of those covered by unemployment insurance, were receiving
state benefits, down 280,000 from the previous week when the
insured unemployment rate was 3.3%.
   In the Dec. 21 week, 947,000 persons filed claims under
the emergency unemployment compensation program that Congress
approved last year.
   Figures in both reports are adjusted for seasonal
variation.
                                                                                                       

   Here are the Labor Department's producer price indexes
(1982=100) for December, before seasonal adjustment, and the
percentage changes from December 1990.
                                                                                                       

 Finished goods .......................   121.9     - 0.1%
   Minus food  energy ................   132.8       3.1%
 Intermediate goods ...................   113.7     - 2.6%
 Crude goods ..........................    97.7     -11.6%