Your Money Matters:
   Market Isn't Kind to Sellers
   Of Units in Partnerships
   ----
   By Karen Slater
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Resale prices of some partnerships have fallen as much as
20% over the past several months as uncertainty has reigned
and demand has shrunk. "A lot of broker-dealers have been
scared away" by regulatory concerns and aren't allowing their
brokers to recommend the purchase of partnership units, says
James Frith Jr., president of Chicago Partnership Board Inc.,
a secondary-market firm.
   Sellers are finding that some traditional sales routes are
blocked and that it is increasingly difficult to dispose of
partnership investments valued at only $1,000 or $2,000. For
some small holdings, "it is real tough to get any bid at all
now," says Jon Hale, who represents sellers as a broker and
partnership specialist at Securities Service Network Inc. in
Knoxville, Tenn.
   Back in the 1970s and 1980s, investors put an estimated
$90 billion into limited partnerships, which are long-term
vehicles giving them ownership interests in businesses such
as real estate and equipment leasing. The partnership units
weren't designed to be actively traded, and only an estimated
$200 million to $300 million of them has been changing hands
each year in the secondary market.
   Until now, there have been two very different and mostly
unconnected segments of the resale market: Merrill Lynch 
Co. and other big securities firms have maintained "matching
services" to assist their customers in selling or buying
units of partnerships those brokerage firms originally sold.
Then there are perhaps 20 independent firms that either bring
buyers and sellers together or buy and sell partnership units
for their own account.
   Harsh words have flown between the two camps. Big
securities firms have accused the independents of predatory
pricing -- a charge the National Association of Securities
Dealers, a self-regulatory body, concurred with in a November
report. The NASD also recently censured and fined Liquidity
Fund, the biggest independent firm; the Emeryville, Calif.,
firm neither admitted nor denied its prices were unfair.
   Meanwhile, independent firms charged that some of the
matching services have involved long waits and have
artificially propped up prices, benefiting partnership
sellers but hurting buyers.
   Both segments of the market have been affected by
regulatory developments and now appear headed for a greater
linkage. The NASD has restricted the commissions and other
charges that firms can earn on secondary partnership trades.
Independent firms have been cutting their charges, cutting
staff and turning away small trades that may be unprofitable;
some say the NASD move threatens their survival.
   Meanwhile, provisions of the NASD notice and an earlier
pronouncement from the Securities and Exchange Commission
appear to spell the end of the matching systems. Brokerage
firms have cut back or ended their matching, and some are
exploring ways to handle customers' sales and purchases by
working with independent firms.
   Richard Ruffine, manager of Merrill Lynch's partnership
activities, says he has met with at least six of the
independent firms and hopes to have some arrangements in
place within 90 days. Merrill Lynch last October suspended
matching for partnerships in which the firm or an affiliate
was involved as an original sponsor.
   The impact of secondary-market upheaval on partnership
resale prices is evident in this newspaper's latest quarterly
survey of transactions at the independent resale firms. In
the quarter ended Dec. 31, prices on a sampling of 20
partnerships fell an average 7% from the preceding three
months. Some prices fell because partnerships lowered
distributions or had other problems, but prices of at least
three partnerships declined because of market developments:
   -- MLH Income Realty Partnership V. Prices were down
around 20%, while the number of independent firms reporting
trades more than doubled. With Merrill Lynch having cut back
its matching, Mr. Ruffine says customers who needed to sell
"had no other outlet but to go outside." Meanwhile, the
independent firms were barred from channeling the increased
supply to buyers within Merrill Lynch.
   -- First Capital Income Properties Ltd.Series IX. Prices
fell about 15%, and market-makers say that's because Robert
W. Baird  Co., a securities unit of Northwestern Mutual Life
Insurance Co., stopped selling partnerships. Baird says its
sales were minuscule, but market-makers say that firm's
clients were nonetheless the major buyers of First Capital
IX.
   -- American Cable TV Investors 3. Prices fell about 10%,
and the firms say that's because securities firm Royal
Alliance Associates Inc., a Broad Inc. unit, withdrew from
the market last September. Many Royal Alliance brokers
previously represented partnership sponsor Integrated
Resources Inc., and they had continued to recommend the
units. Royal Alliance Chairman Gary W. Krat says his firm
wants to re-enter the market but needs further clarification
from the NASD.
   With the recent turmoil in the resale market, Liquidity
Fund's president, Brent Donaldson, says some partnership
buyers "are getting great deals." The firm is expecting a
rebound in prices once the market absorbs the regulatory
changes, and Mr. Donaldson says sellers may want to wait six
months or a year if they can.
   Others are less optimistic. Ross Bowler, whose 2nd Market
Capital Services in Madison, Wis., represents sellers, notes
that the troubled real-estate market and other factors have
caused the prices of many partnerships to edge downward for
three years. He's not convinced the slide is over.
   Whatever happens to prices, the next year is likely to see
continued skirmishes between secondary-market firms and the
NASD. For instance, Ronald T. Baker, president of Partnership
Securities Exchange Inc. in Oakland, Calif., says his firm
isn't subject to the NASD's 5% limitation on compensation
because it is actually putting its own capital at risk.
   But Charles Bennett, the NASD's director of corporate
financing, says he is unaware of any partnership firm whose
operations so qualify. Neither man would comment on whether
the NASD has initiated enforcement actions against
Partnership Securities Exchange, which is known as PSX.
   The NASD is trying to find ways to simplify the cumbersome
and lengthy process of transferring partnership units from
one holder to another. And many secondary-market participants
are hoping that various tax and other issues can be resolved
so that partnership prices could be listed on the NASD's
electronic bulletin board system just like those of
over-the-counter stocks.