International:
   World Wire
   ----
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
China has selected 40 conservatives from Hong Kong as
advisers on the territory's affairs, one of the delegates
said.
   This prompted fears that Beijing plans to use the group to
gain a foothold in the British colony before it is handed
over to Chinese rule in 1997.
   The advisory committee, officially to aid in the
transition but known derisively in Hong Kong as the "Gang of
40," is composed mainly of business tycoons, conservative
politicians and China sympathizers. Liberal legislators
termed the appointments another attempt by Beijing to strip
the territory of autonomy.
   Beijing recently has been increasingly vocal about its
displeasure with political developments in Hong Kong. Doubt
lingers in the colony that China will honor its pledge in a
1984 Sino-British agreement to guarantee Hong Kong and its
capitalistic system a "high degree of autonomy" for 50 years
after 1997.
                                                                                                       

   JAPAN'S PHASE-OUT OF CFCS
                                                                                                       

   Japan plans to accelerate its phase-out of
ozone-destroying chlorofluorocarbons, following a U.S.
decision to ban the chemicals by 1995. But Tokyo expressed
doubt about satisfying Western industrial nations' pleas to
speed up discontinuance of all CFCs, as they include a
cleaning agent for metals widely used by smaller industries
in Japan. Tokyo will present its phase-out plans at a
November meeting of signatories of the 1987 Montreal
Protocol, under which CFC production and use will be banned
by the year 2005. CFCs are used mainly as coolants, aerosol
propellants and semiconductor cleaning agents.
                                                                                                       

   HUNGARY GAINS CONTROL OF PAPER
                                                                                                       

   Hungary gained control of the newspaper Esti Hirlap by
buying the 40% stake of the late British publisher Robert
Maxwell. The deal boosted to 80% Budapest's holding in the
unprofitable 60,000-circulation daily. The price wasn't
disclosed. The paper's employees own the remaining 20%. Prime
Minister Jozsef Antall's center-right government has sought
more influence in the media. Mr. Antall has blamed negative
media coverage for the government's poor showing in opinion
polls since his party ousted the Communists in 1990
elections.
                                                                                                       

   PHILIPPINES A SMUGGLING HAVEN
                                                                                                       

   More than $1 billion of goods are smuggled into the
Philippines every year, the World Bank said, pressing Manila
to take stronger actions to stop the contraband flow, which
appears to be on the rise. Controlling smuggling is difficult
in the archipelago, but "it appears the government doesn't
even try," the bank said in a confidential report obtained by
Reuters news agency. The bank said customs is inadequate and
has an insufficient budget. Most goods smuggled were
high-tariff items, such as textiles, electronics, food and
motor parts. Ships take out illegally cut timber and
privately mined gold and minerals.
                                                                                                       

   JAPAN'S BANK-LENDING PACE SLOWS
                                                                                                       

   Lending by Japanese banks in January grew at the slowest
pace ever for the third month in a row. The growth rate of
4.2% to 512.77 trillion yen ($4.025 trillion) of loans
outstanding from a year earlier was the smallest since the
Bank of Japan began keeping these records in 1965. Bank
lending grew 4.3% in December and 4.6% in November. The
central bank attributed the anemic performance to Japan's
slowdown in economic growth, expectations of a further drop
in interest rates and firms' issuance of debt securities.
                                                                                                       

   SPAIN EHANCES POLICE POWERS
                                                                                                       

   Spain's Parliament cleared a security bill giving police
extra powers. The opposition conservatives planned to
challenge the constitutionality of the bill, sponsored by
Prime Minister Felipe Gonzalez's Socialist government. The
conservatives object to provisions that allow police to enter
private homes where occupants are suspected of drug
trafficking, and to detain people who can't produce
identification. The opposition contends this could allow
police action on scant evidence.
                                                                                                       

   PORTUGAL WARNED ON INFLATION
                                                                                                       

   Portugal must rein in inflation if it hopes to become an
equal partner in the European Community monetary and economic
union, the Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development said.
   The OECD, a group of rich industrial nations, lauded
Portugal's output and employment as an EC member and its
strong balance of payments.
   But inflation fueled by surging consumer demand is
breaking Portugal's economic growth trend of the past few
years and choking off export gains. The country's inflation
rate was 13% in 1990 and an estimated 12% last year.
   Growth in gross domestic product slowed to about 2.75% in
1991 from an average of 4.5% in the preceding five years.
Government spending has surged and the deficit widened.
                                                                                                       

   POSTSCRIPTS . . .
                                                                                                       

   Iran will allow ships to enter its territorial waters
freely for the first time since the 1980-88 war with Iraq,
shipping sources said, citing Tehran's recent attempts to
improve political and economic relations with the West.
Lifting the exclusion zones would ease the flow of oil
through the Persian Gulf. . . . Bangladesh pledged to reduce
gasoline and diesel prices in July, under an agreement to end
a five-day strike by private transporters. The walkout caused
a $21 million loss to the country, which depends on private
vehicles for moving most essential goods. Fuel prices doubled
during the Gulf War.