Corporate Focus:
   Storage Technology to Launch Its Vaunted Iceberg
   ---
   Many Rave About the Data-Storing
   Device, but Some Doubts Linger
   ----
   By Hal Lancaster
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
What's all the excitement about? Iceberg is a device that
stores massive amounts of computer data on arrays of 5
1/4-inch disk drives, much smaller than the 10-inch platters
that are currently the industry standard (hence the acronym
RAID, or redundant array of inexpensive disks). The company
promises that its device will operate continuously, won't
lose data due to mechanical failure and will sharply reduce
the cost of storing data. StorageTek contends -- and many
analysts and consultants agree -- that this is the most
sophisticated storage device to hit the market, one that
competitors won't be able to approach for two to three years.
   Of course, there are those who dispute that, mainly
competitors. Officials for EMC Corp., of Hopkinton, Mass.,
claim that its currently available disk-storage device will
do everything Iceberg can for less. While an IBM spokeswoman
said the company wouldn't comment for this article,
StorageTek and others say the industry leader has been
countermarketing hard with customers.
   Some skeptics question whether StorageTek, with its spotty
record in the disk-drive market, can really pull off what
seems a daunting technological task. Even some of the
company's Wall Street supporters wonder whether the product
can do the wondrous things for the company's earnings and
stock price projected by some star-struck analysts,
particularly when its huge and formidable competitors come
after it, as they inevitably will.
   "I'm not sure they're tuned up for a major league fight
and that's what they're going to get," says Michael
Ruettgers, EMC's president and chief executive officer. "And
not just from us. IBM and Fujitsu and Hitachi aren't going to
let a new guy come in without getting bloodied, particularly
someone talking as arrogantly as StorageTek."
   Mr. Poppa pooh-poohs the critics, insisting that Iceberg
won't have any real competition for some time, despite the
claims of companies such as EMC. "I told Dick Egan {EMC's
chairman and founder}, `You've got a tricycle compared to our
Cadillac,'" Mr. Poppa says, beaming.
   Mr. Poppa is preaching to the converted, since naysayers
seem to be in a distinct minority as the company prepares for
its New York rollout before a throng of securities analysts.
"We've sold out the analysts' meeting," Mr. Poppa marvels.
"We can't feed 'em all. People who never covered us are
coming."
   StorageTek can take some of the credit for this hoopla. It
hasn't been shy about beating the drums for Iceberg. Over the
past two years, the company has been pitching the product to
some 2,000 customers who agreed to sign nondisclosure pacts.
As Iceberg neared the market, the company brought in industry
consultants and securities analysts for more briefings. The
pre-marketing strategy was necessary, StorageTek says, to
convince customers of the need for this radically new
technology.
   As a result, the company has already exceeded its
projection of $50 million in 1992 Iceberg sales through a
pre-introduction sales program. Mr. Poppa says the company is
already in the position of having to allocate the 2,000
machines the company is capable of shipping in the first 2
1/2 years of production.
   The Iceberg project was launched in 1987, soon after the
company emerged from a reorganization in bankruptcy court.
The company decided that instead of making IBM copycat disks
as it had always done, it had to leapfrog its rival with new
technology to survive in that market. It was a huge gamble,
Mr. Poppa acknowledges, especially since the then-struggling
company had to come up with $110 million to develop Iceberg.
To do so, StorageTek decided to skip a generation of
disk-drive development, deliberately falling behind the rest
of the market.
   The decision cost the company market share, but StorageTek
officials figured it was a gamble worth taking, especially
since it had only a 2% share at risk. To retain as many of
its 1,000 or so disk customers as possible, Mr. Poppa says,
the company offered to swap their current disk drives for
Iceberg, when available. Most of them stayed, but
StorageTek's market share slipped to 1% as the market grew.
   Mr. Poppa says there were some people within StorageTek
who recommended against pursuing Iceberg, particularly since
the company was already launching a risky product, a robotic
tape cartridge library, which stores and retrieves tape
cartridge much like a jukebox does records. IBM had already
failed with a similar product. If the library had flopped,
Mr. Poppa says, the company would have been forced to find a
partner for Iceberg. "We were betting our independence," he
said.
   But the library took off and this year will produce an
estimated $950 million in revenue. Its success buoyed
confidence in StorageTek's ability to pull off a product
development coup. But unlike the tape library, Iceberg faces
formidable competitors. While most analysts don't see IBM
introducing a competitive product until late 1993 or beyond,
people close to IBM have hinted that it could be as soon as
early 1993. "There isn't anything in Iceberg that the
competition doesn't know about," says an analyst who follows
IBM.
   The product also is relatively complex, as storage devices
go. Its operations are controlled by some 125,000 lines of
microcode that divide data up and spread it across a number
of disks, with enough duplication that if one disk fails, the
information can be reconstructed from other disks. Concerns
over the operation of the machine were raised when the
company delayed shipping test units from the first quarter to
the second quarter so it could do more rigorous in-house
testing. "The question is, will the microcode work?" asks
Dave Vellante, a consultant with International Data Corp. "It
damn well better, or they`re dead."
   Mr. Poppa insists that the machine can now do 90% of what
it is touted to do, although not all functions will be
included in the early models. As for heading off the
competition, he says the company will maintain its
technological lead through a seven-year program of upgrades
and an aggressive use of blocking patents to make entry into
the market more costly.
   If it all works as the company hopes, and the company's
stock tops the $100-a-share mark, as some analysts have
projected, no one will be happier than Mr. Poppa, who offered
to take stock in lieu of a bigger salary when he took on the
job of reconstructing StorageTek. He now owns 447,000 shares.
"The tape library made me a rich man," he says. "Iceberg will
make me a very rich man."
   ---
                     The Fundamentals
                                                                                                       

                                        1990      1989
                                                                                                       

   SALES ($ millions)                $1,140.60   $982.5
   NET INCOME ($ million)               $69.30    $47.70
   EARNINGS PER SHARE                    $2.18     $1.83
                                                                                                       

   MAJOR PRODUCT LINES:
                                                                                                       

   Tape and disk memory products
                                                                                                       

   MAJOR COMPETITORS:
                                                                                                       

   International Business Machines Corp., Hitachi Ltd.,
Fujitsu Ltd., Memorex Telex Corp., EMC Corp.