Street Triage:
   A San Diego Shelter
   Feeds the Homeless
   With an Uneven Hand
   ---
   For Newly Indigent, There Is
   Swordfish and Manicures;
   Others Get Soup and a Cot
   ---
   Father Joe's Country Club
   ----
   By Jonathan Dahl
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Upstairs, Mr. Guarino is led into a semi-private bedroom
with a phone. The smell of crisp, clean linen fills the room.
"This place is amazing," says Mr. Guarino, 23 years old, a
laid-off security guard homeless for six months.
   It is St. Vincent's philosophy that such plush
surroundings can restore the dignity the homeless need to
rejoin society. But this paradise is neither cheap nor open
to everyone. The private shelter, which cost $15 million to
build, has a $6 million annual budget. And it sets aside its
best facilities for the motivated or newly homeless, like Mr.
Guarino. The chronic homeless -- winos, addicts, the mentally
ill and others who make up the majority of the homeless
population -- sleep in a barracks-style dormitory with bunk
beds, fewer services and no rosebushes.
   "I just can't help them all the same way," says St.
Vincent's founder, a Catholic priest named Joe Carroll.
   St. Vincent's unusual vision of countryclub care for the
homeless is catching on at shelters across the country. Since
the Great Depression, shelters have been barebones rest
stops, often in warehouses or church basements. Now, eager
for a fresh solution to the nation's mounting homelessness
crisis, some shelters are becoming both upscale and
selective.
   In Salt Lake City, a $4 million shelter run by Travelers
Aid Society has private rooms for families, a school and a
medical clinic -- but only lets intoxicated street people
sleep in its lobby. This year, the Catholic Charities shelter
in Maui, Hawaii, plans to cut its ratio of emergency beds in
favor of a $5 million complex with private family rooms with
balconies. Some smaller shelters are offering aerobics
classes and legal services -- but charging a $5-a-day rent
that shuts some people out.
   Critics decry this triage system. "It's called creaming,"
says Martha Burt, a senior researcher at the Urban Institute
in Washington, D.C. "They're helping the people who are
likely to succeed." Such glittering meccas, critics contend,
shift scarce funds away from longer-lasting solutions like
construction of permanent housing. "Shelters are only
supposed to be temporary," says Mary Ann Gleason, a board
member of the National Coalition for the Homeless. "We're
just institutionalizing homelessness."
   Yet St. Vincent has become so popular that it conducts
public tours three times a week, and hundreds of shelter
operators have come to see it. Enthusiasts argue that
homelessness is too widespread to wait for more permanent
housing and that favoring the newly homeless prevents more
chronic cases. "You've got to focus on the people who want to
get off the street," says Sue Myrick, a former mayor of
Charlotte, N.C., who helped build a $1 million shelter there
inspired by St. Vincent.
   At the center of this debate is Father Carroll, 50, a
baby-faced priest and unlikely hero for the homeless. Known
around town as Father Joe, he likes to hobnob with San
Diego's super-rich, calls some derelicts "bums" and drives
around in a Crown Victoria with a car phone. Yet he earns
only $12,000 a year and lives in a tiny basement apartment. A
devoted priest, he also talks openly about gambling in Las
Vegas and jokingly says he owns a waterbed "in case the Pope
changes his mind" about celibacy.
   Father Joe came to St. Vincent in 1982 after spending most
of his priesthood in affluent and middle-class parishes. In
the next eight years, he raised $30 million in private
contributions and turned St. Vincent, originally a church-run
thrift store, into a 500-bed operation. He did it by taking
fund raising to new heights of sophistication -- and
zaniness. For rich contributors, he produced a slick video on
new tax breaks. He has an annual golf tournament with Merrill
Lynch  Co. and shuns bake sales in favor of black-tie balls
for $2,500 a plate. Wearing his Roman collar, he helps local
businesses hawk everything from cheap furniture to
beach-front estates in exchange for donations.
   "One-point-nine percent or cash rebates," he promises in
one television commercial, his arm clamped around a smiling
Chevrolet dealer. "And a priest wouldn't lie."
   Father Joe's shelter dotes on the homeless in many unusual
ways. On his first day here, Mr. Guarino, the laid-off
security guard, enters a spacious lobby with oversized vases.
Staff members are scooping up cigarette butts. At the front
desk, a clerk hands Mr. Guarino a slide-card room key and
tells him about the shelter's barber shop.
   Later, Mr. Guarino hobbles past a glassed-in reception
area into an examination room smelling of disinfectant. One
of the first of its kind, the clinic serves 6,000 homeless
people a year and even makes house calls to their rooms at
the shelter. Squinting in pain, Mr. Guarino reveals a foot
swollen to the size of a coconut.
   After being treated, Mr. Guarino takes budgeting and
resume-writing courses, then makes job-hunting calls in a
resource center equipped with copying and answering machines.
One night, he gets a phone message from someone he hasn't
spoken to in a year -- his mother. "She couldn't believe this
was a shelter," he says. "You really feel like they care
about you."
   Upstairs at the shelter, in a lounge with cable
television, Carmen Rubin is describing the day St. Vincent
sent her and 20 other homeless women to a local beauty salon
for a "Day of Beauty" -- complete with makeover, manicure and
catered finger sandwiches. A year before, Ms. Rubin and her
two teen-age sons had lived in a cardboard box on a fishing
pier. As she tells it, Ms. Rubin, 33, was forced into
homelessness after her ex-husband stabbed her in the eye.
   The salon day "was silly, but it made me feel important,"
she says in a voice barely above a whisper. St. Vincent, she
adds, has also helped her earn a highschool diploma and
become a bookkeeper. In the spring, she plans to move with
her sons into a three-bedroom apartment.
   But not everyone at St. Vincent has it this good. While
the newly homeless stay in this 350-bed facility, with its
gourmet food, semi-private rooms and round-the-clock access,
the chronic homeless stay next door in a 150-bed dormitory.
In the winter there are 350 extra beds, army cots scattered
around the grounds. Barred from the courtyard, these people
enjoy little privacy, eat mostly stew or soup and are rousted
out of bed at dawn. All told, St. Vincent spends $4 to $9 a
day on the chronic homeless, compared with $14 to $16 a day
for its other residents.
   This can make for some tense scenes. One night, a cold
winter mist fills the air outside St. Vincent as 50 or so
grizzled men, their belongings in torn knapsacks or plastic
bags, stand in line for a cot. A bearded man in his 70s
teeters on a bent cane. Their fate is in the hands of a
boredlooking young man, himself homeless, who holds a silver
clicker and counts heads. This job got him a bed for the
night.
   "We can only take three more," he announces. Angry,
Richard Goodman, 35, steps out of line. For a month, he says,
he stayed in a semi-private room at St. Vincent, until he was
ejected for drinking. There, he got free bus tokens; tonight
he must walk five miles to the nearest open shelter. "It just
doesn't seem fair," he says. Next to him, Barry Santana, an
intense young man with a wet bandana over his head, feels
raindrops on his hands and notices an off-limits protective
overhang.
   "Why can't I just sleep there?" he asks, stalking off into
the night.
   St. Vincent keeps the chronic homeless out of its nicer
facilities by accepting only people who have been referred by
a church, community group or shelter staffers. Once they get
in, first-time residents are given 28 days to earn a spot in
six- and 18-month programs. They carry index cards that track
class attendance and results of basic skills tests they take.
Fewer than 20% of the people admitted for 28 days make the
cut, a decision staffers make once a month based on space and
performance. "You have to play God a little bit," says Jim
DiCenzo, a program director.
   In her 28-day trial, Marshella Adeyele concedes, she
missed some appointments and didn't hunt for a job enough. "I
was just too depressed in the beginning," says the
36-year-old former Avon representative from Lexington, Ky. "I
needed more time." In November, she was told to leave; she
stuffed her things into a duffel bag and headed back to her
previous refuge -- behind a brick wall on the steps of the
public library.
   A month later, she is back to beg for another chance.
Talking nervously in a hallway, she makes her case to a
clipboardtoting counselor: She feels better now, she has
joined the staff of Fresh Start, the shelter newspaper. "Will
I ever get back in?" she asks. Moments later, she emerges
from an office. "They just said they didn't have enough
space."
   Such constant weeding out bothers some advocates for the
homeless. "Father Joe only wants to help nice, clean-cut
homeless," says Alice Stark, who runs the Uptown Interfaith
Service Center, a referral agency. For all of St. Vincent's
efforts to focus on the hard-working homeless, its track
record is difficult to judge. About 70% to 80% of residents
who stick with the shelter's long-term programs get jobs and
housing. But that's only about 150 people a year.
   Still, Ms. Stark concedes that St. Vincent's bootstrap
doctrine appeals to contributors in this age of mounting
frustration with the homeless. "You definitely get the best
bang for your buck this way," she says.
   What's more, St. Vincent does give even the chronic
homeless more than they get at most shelters. Nearly 1,200
street people a day come here to eat, take free showers, use
the medical clinic and take classes. The dormitory they sleep
in is also free of the violence that plagues many shelters.
Only about two fights a week are reported at St Vincent,
which maintains dossiers and "incident" reports on
troublemakers and has a $500,000 security system. After
Father Joe's car tire was slashed outside a shelter, he made
sure St. Vincent had a parking garage, too. One consequence
of this attention to safety is that some 1,500 volunteers
feel it's safe to work here.
   Father Joe says he doesn't offer the chronic homeless more
services, such as personalized job counseling, because they
wouldn't use it. "I'm willing to admit some of these people
are lost causes who will never get jobs," he says. "I just
want to make sure they have a warm place to stay." He says
withholding some nice perks might motivate the long-term
homeless who are capable of improving themselves. "In the
real world, you have to earn nice things," he says.
   He has another reason, too. It's hard to mix chronic
homeless in a shelter with so many children. In all, 120
children stay here every day, and even the priest's harshest
critics praise this work. "With children," says Ms. Stark,
"he performs magic."
   Their day starts at 7:45 a.m. at a school for the homeless
across the street, housed in a former auto-parts store with
bars over the windows. The tiniest kids get personal care in
the "tot room," part of a large playroom with finger
paintings on the wall. One recent afternoon, Mother Goose
rhymes play softly in the background as two-year-olds munch
on graham crackers. As they curl up on floor mats for a nap,
a tired nurse snuggles up with one of the little girls.
Smiling, the child offers a bite of her cracker, and asks:
"Do you feel better?"
   The same day, Patti Crandall, a teacher, gathers her
second- through fourth-graders for a children's story, "A
House Is a House for Me." Ants have anthills to live in and
spiders have webs, she reads, then asks if the book has
failed to mention any other homes. Arms shoot up and a
seven-year-old asks: "A shelter is a home, isn't it?"
   Physical abuse and emotional problems are rampant among
these kids, according to Bonnie Starr, who runs the tot room.
She has had three-year-olds with belt marks and cigarette
burns, and thumbsucking 16-year-olds. One 12-year-old girl
was asked to draw a family portrait: She drew them all with
no heads. "At least they don't have to stay in some horrible
and scary shelter," says Ms. Starr.
   Elaborate as St. Vincent is, Father Joe wants more. On his
desk are photos of a sprawling retreat with tennis courts and
a pool in the mountains 60 miles north of San Diego, which
he's negotiating to convert into a shelter. He says a Las
Vegas charity group may "franchise" St. Vincent's program. In
his boldest move, he is launching a fund-raising campaign for
a $30 million expansion of St. Vincent over the next few
years. It would include 900 more beds, a hospital and even a
school to teach people how to run shelters-his way.
   For the chronic homeless, his shortterm plans are less
clear. This summer, he will turn his dorm for them into a
transitional housing center to serve motivated residents. He
says he may build a 250-bed shelter in a nearby thrift store
for chronic cases, but concedes the plan is still tentative
and needs city approval.
   "If I had a $100 million, I would give them all better
facilities," Father Joe says. "But I don't. So I made some
choices."