Foreign Exchange:
   Australia Dollar
   Still Has Room
   For More Drops
   ----
   By Candace Cumberbatch
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
Late Friday here, the Australian dollar was quoted at
74.00 U.S. cents, down from 74.47 cents late Thursday and far
below levels around 79 cents at the end of November.
   "I think there's a little more downside," says Earl
Johnson, a foreign exchange adviser at Harris Trust  Savings
Bank in Chicago. He says some traders expect support at 72.50
cents to be tested before the decline ends.
   The dive in Australian interest rates has taken a big toll
on the currency. Short-term rates are now around 7%,
following a series of easings by the Reserve Bank of
Australia in the past two years. In February 1990, some
short-term rates hovered near 17%.
   When rates were at sky-high levels, the Australian dollar
was one of the darlings of the foreign exchange market, even
though Australia's economy was in a slump. That is because
investors scrambled to snap up the high-yielding investments
in Australia's credit market.
   Now, the currency is almost an outcast. With rates down,
the Australian dollar is clearly "vulnerable," says Mr.
Johnson of Harris Trust.
   Concern about further Reserve Bank credit relaxation is
building because the economy is still weak. Prime Minister
Paul Keating is expected to give an economic statement in
late February or early March. Although the announcement of a
number of stimulative measures is anticipated, analysts say
the Australian dollar could be hit by more sales if there are
worries that increased government spending will mean higher
inflation and a bigger federal budget deficit for Australia.
   The one thing the Australian dollar has going for it now
is the Reserve Bank's resolve to cushion its fall, traders
say. The Australian central bank recently has been seen
buying the currency aggressively against the U.S. dollar. The
Federal Reserve Bank of New York also has been seen
purchasing Australian dollars, likely on behalf of
Australia's central bank.
   But intervention, alone, probably won't be enough to keep
the Australian dollar supported for long. Recently, sales by
Far East traders have "done most of the damage" to the
Australian dollar, says George Diamantopoulos, chief dealer
at Australia  New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. in New York. He
also predicts that Australian dollar support just below 73
cents will probably be tested soon.
   In early trading in Tokyo Monday, the dollar was at 128.85
yen, up sharply from 124.57 yen at Friday's Tokyo close.
Meanwhile, the U.S. currency was trading at 1.6065 marks,
down from 1.6103 marks Friday.