REVIEW  OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   Mail Sort
His greatest achievement was taking on the powerful postal
unions and winning, through arbitration, valuable leeway. In
the last contract, he got permission to hire transitional
workers, at about half the normal cost, as the USPS phases in
automation over the next few years. That will permit real
streamlining to occur, in addition to the nearly 50,000 slots
eliminated since Mr. Frank took over. This is a turnaround
from the swelling of the work force that continued through
most of the Reagan years.
   Mr. Frank's tough posture in labor bargaining earned him
the undying enmity of union officials, but the respect of
just about everybody else. How much Mr. Frank upset the
American Postal Workers Union is evident from its "Wanted"
poster, part of which is depicted here. This conveys a sense
of the nature of the opposition to privatizing anything run
by Washington. Given how tethered the Postal Service is in
hiring and firing, any gains in personnel management are
significant.
   The postmaster also succeeded in instituting external
performance reviews via Price Waterhouse, replacing the bogus
internal measures that always showed laughably prompt
deliveries. Under real scrutiny, the Postal Service met its
overnight-delivery commitment within metropolitan areas 83.4%
of the time in the most recent quarter, vs. 80.8% a year
earlier. Collection boxes got swept at their appointed times.
   Mr. Frank has selectively contracted out operations but
shied away from turning over delivery routes, even though,
according to Postal Rate Commission member John Crutcher,
officials "know beyond a doubt they can save 50% on each
route they contract out."
   Meanwhile, Mr. Frank has guarded the anti-competitive
provisions on letter mail, which include floors on the prices
that urban messenger services may charge. As long as those
barriers exist, we can never be confident that the
first-class stamp rate, whether it be 29 cents or 30 cents or
higher, is not being used to subsidize the Postal Service's
ventures into other fields, such as express delivery. Mr.
Frank, in trying to make the USPS more of a business, has
pushed ahead in those areas and sought pricing flexibility.
It might be better if those operations were sold off.
   As Ronald Utt, chief privatization pusher in the Reagan
administration, notes, postmasters general inevitably become
"captives of the institution and defenders of the status
quo." In the long and recently sad history of the post
office, the feisty Mr. Frank's tenure delivered more than the
usual bill of goods.