Seaman Furniture Files for Chapter 11,
   Cites Long Slump in New York Market
   ----
   By George Anders
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
Although Seaman is one of the smallest companies
controlled by KKR, a leveraged buy-out concern, it has
attracted considerable attention in the past few years
because of its recurring financial troubles. In 1989, Seaman
was forced to turn over part ownership to its bank creditors
in return for some debt forgiveness. Various KKR partnerships
currently own about 37% of closely held Seaman.
   In its bankruptcy filing, Seaman said it plans to close 15
of its 37 stores, so it can "focus on a core group of
stores." The closures will include all stores in the
Philadelphia area, as well as several in Connecticut and New
York state. Seaman's chief executive officer, Matthew Serra,
said the surviving stores account for about 80% of the
company's current sales.
   In its bankruptcy filing in New York federal district
court, Seaman listed liabilities of $363.7 million and assets
of $141.3 million.
   Most of Seaman's 20 largest creditors are foreign banks
that helped finance the company's acquisition by KKR. The
company said its largest creditor, Credit Agricole of France,
is owed $22 million. National Westminster Bank PLC of Britain
is owed $18.8 million and First Bank System Inc.,
Minneapolis, is owed $17.5 million.
   When KKR acquired Seaman for about $354 million in early
1988, Manufacturers Hanover Corp. had led the bank-lending
group, committing $70 million toward the acquisition. A
spokesman for Chemical Banking Corp., which has acquired
Manufacturers, said, however, that Manufacturers had sold
most of its loan exposure to other banks. In the bankruptcy
filing, Manufacturers was listed as being owed only $5.2
million.
   Seaman's Mr. Serra said the furniture company hopes to
emerge from bankruptcy proceedings in six months. He said
Seaman has obtained a new $25 million line of credit from GE
Capital Corp., a unit of General Electric Co. Those funds
will help Seaman keep making timely payments to suppliers,
Mr. Serra said.
   In the months leading up to the bankruptcy filing, Mr.
Serra said, some suppliers to Seaman had tightened credit
terms, allowing the company only 30 days to make payments,
instead of the usual 60-day payments. He said, though, that
Seaman's warehouses remain fully supplied and that Seaman has
the support of its vendors. In the retailing business in
particular, financially troubled companies' prospects hinge
on their ability to keep getting shipments from suppliers.
   Until early 1988, Seaman had been controlled by its
founding Seaman family, led by Chief Executive Morton Seaman.
The company grew rapidly in the 1980s, becoming one of the
largest advertisers in the New York area, with its slogan
"See Seaman's First." Its earnings peaked, however, just
about at the time that KKR acquired the company.
   Mr. Seaman and his son Jeffrey remained active in the
company for the first 1 1/2 years after the buy-out, but
began to clash with KKR executives as the company's financial
performance deteriorated. In late 1989, concurrent with the
first debt restructuring, the Seaman family dropped out of
active management of the company. The Seaman family remains
landlords for several Seaman stores, but otherwise isn't
involved in the company at present.
   Several bank lenders to the company said Seaman had
attempted to negotiate a second, out-of-court restructuring
with its bank lenders late last year, but couldn't obtain
unanimous consent to a plan. As a result, Seaman on Friday
entered bankruptcy proceedings without filing a plan of
reorganization.
   KKR, in a statement, said it will "continue to work
together with the company, its management and its lenders."
Unless KKR invests more money in Seaman, though, creditors
said, the buy-out firm is likely to be shunted aside as a
major owner of the furniture retailer.