LEISURE  ARTS -- On Sports:
   Jayhawks in Hunt for No. 1
   ----
   By Frederick C. Klein
"I showed up at 7:30 this morning with five dozen
doughnuts, and they didn't make it around the corner," he
said. "I guess the kids are getting pretty worked up over
this team."
   One needn't have gone to college to figure out that
something is up in Lawrence again this year, though-it's as
simple as 3-2-1. Three is where the Jayhawks were ranked in
the Associated Press national poll at the beginning of this
week, before their 77-64 victory over 14th-ranked OSU ran
their won-lost record to 22-3 and guaranteed them at least a
share of the Big Eight conference title. Two is where they
wound up last season, clunking a lot of short shots to lose
to Duke in the NCAA championship game after surprising almost
everyone by getting there.
   As for No. 1, well, that may take some doing, because Duke
is still there and giving every indication of liking it. But
NCAA doesn't stand for Nobody Comes out Ahead Alot for
nothing at basketball tournament time, and maybe Roy's Boys
will find a way to shoehorn in early next month in
Minneapolis.
   The coach himself has been a head man for just four years
now, but he spent 10 years working for Dean Smith at North
Carolina, so he knows how to be noncommittal in speaking
about his team's tourney prospects. "It might be hard to
believe, but I haven't given that much thought," he said
after Monday's game. (It's hard to believe, all right.)
   He went on: "We're younger than last year's team, but I
think we're quicker. Beyond that, who knows? Who can predict
how a bunch of 19-, 20- and 21-year-olds will react under
pressure? I've based a career on that, and I still have no
answer."
   If the immediate past is any guide, however, the answer
for this Kansas team may be affirmative. In Monday's fray, on
an unseasonably warm night following an unseasonably warm
day, the Jayhawks didn't so much dazzle their foes as
outsweat them, and that sort of effort is more reliable than
flash and dash.
   The key statistic (besides the final score, of course),
was the winners' 41-26 margin in rebounding. This was all the
more noteworthy because the visitors did not lack for bulk,
especially in center Bryant Reeves, a 275-pound 7-footer, and
Byron Houston, a well-muscled 6-foot-7 and 250 pounds. Except
for Greg Ostertag, a big freshman who saw just six minutes of
action, none of the Kansans matched those measurements, but
when the ball came off the glass they still usually managed
to grab it.
   "The trick is hustle, and it's no trick," said senior
forward Alonzo Jamison, one of two returning starters from
last year's team. "It's what we always try to do, and it
makes up for a lot."
   Kansas has no one as good as Danny Manning, who led the
school's Larry Brown-coached 1988 NCAA titlists, but this is
not to say the Jayhawks' lone asset is grit. When Williams
talks about quickness, he mostly means his other returning
starter, melliflously named Adonis Adelecino Jordan, a
5-foot-11 Californian. Jordan runs the team from his
point-guard post, and he runs it fast. He shoots pretty well,
too -- about 48% from three-point land.
   Help also has come from unexpected sources. The Jayhawks'
leading scorer this term is guard Rex Walters, who played two
seasons at woebegone Northwestern before wondering what
winning might be like and transferring here. After sitting
out a year, the left-hander is averaging about 17 points a
game and finding out.
   The starting center is Eric Pauley, who last played at a
California junior college. He's tall (6-10) and skinny (210
pounds), and tends to get into foul trouble. But he is good
at sticking his hands in front of opposing shooters' faces,
and has been doing some fancy shooting himself of late. His
six-of-nine from the field Monday continued a month-long
streak of near-70% marksmanship.
   In Oklahoma State, Kansas was facing a rival whose ancient
basketball history equals its own -- UK's F.C. "Phog" Allen
and OSU's Henry Iba were the nation's foremost coaches of the
immediate postwar era -- but one whose more recent past is
less than glorious. Last season, though, the Cowboys brought
back grad Eddie Sutton to coach, and while that worthy left
his previous job, at the University of Kentucky, under the
mushroom cloud of an impending NCAA probation, his
consecutive 20-win seasons have made him welcome as the
flowers in Stillwater. His gang is 22-6 after Monday, and a
shoo-in for a tourney berth.
   The two teams played at Stillwater on Feb. 8, with
Oklahoma State winning, 6456. This time, before the usual
noisy 15,000 in the fieldhouse named for Allen ("Beware of
the Phog," reads a permanent banner), the Jayhawks took an
early lead and held it, albeit shakily at times.
   Kansas's game plan focused on throwing a number of
defenses at OSU and keeping fresh bodies on Houston, the
burly Cowboy star. That young man, whom the pros will make
rich before 1992 ends, still led all scorers with 26 points,
but admitted afterward that his tail was dragging near game's
end, when an eight-point Jayhawk spurt turned a close
encounter of the 60-56 kind into an insurmountable 68-56
lead.
   And unlike his coach, Jayhawk point guard Jordan had no
qualms about talking of the future. "We're looking to have a
great March," said he. When informed March was here, he just
smiled. "And a great April, too," he added.