Marketing  Media -- Advertising:
   CBS Bid to Cram Winter Games
   With Ads Risks Chilling Viewers
   ----
   By Kevin Goldman
The Olympic ad clutter far exceeds the usual standards for
the network; in its regular prime-time roster, CBS averages
11 minutes of nonprogramming time per hour. On Tuesday, CBS
crammed 19 minutes into one hour. Although the good news is
that the Olympics' ratings are currently exceeding what CBS
guaranteed advertisers, the next week may provide a test of
just how much ad clutter viewers are willing to tolerate.
   Some viewers may try the strategy that worked for Jonathan
Richards, who taped Tuesday's coverage on his VCR and watched
it later. "I zapped through all the commercials and
everything else that wasn't an actual sporting event," says
Mr. Richards, a 50-year-old writer and cartoonist in Santa
Fe, N.M. "There are endless commercials. You lose the
continuity of the Olympic competition." He adds that he may
watch the Olympics as CBS actually broadcasts them, but will
leave the room when the ads come on.
   CBS says it has received few viewer complaints about the
clutter. A network spokeswoman says there are 10 1/2 minutes
of commercials in each hour of prime time. However, that
accounts only for actual product advertising. It doesn't
include other so-called nonprogram announcements, such as CBS
promotions for its new shows, such as the animated "Fish
Police" as well as "Boys of Twilight."
   "We've built a three-hour show to have commercials in a
way that doesn't obstruct viewers," the CBS spokeswoman says.
   Advertising executives acknowledge that clutter may exist,
but they say it may be less noticeable than if CBS were
providing live prime-time coverage from the site,
Albertville, France. "CBS never cuts away from one sport in
progress to cover another sport going on at the same time,"
says Joel M. Segal, executive vice president at
McCann-Erickson, a unit of Interpublic Group. "So the
commercials come at natural breaks."
   Nevertheless, the ads came faster than an athlete
competing on the luge course. Shortly after 10 p.m. Tuesday
night, for example, there was a two-and-a-half minute
commercial break which included spots for everything from
Dodge cars to Quaker Oats breakfast cereal to promotions for
the network and a CBS-Coca-Cola tune-in contest.
   "The commercials are endless," complains James Hayden, a
37-year-old general manager at Schoenberg Salt Co. in
Brooklyn, N.Y. "CBS is trying to fill time because there
aren't enough sports for the Winter Olympics."
   CBS Sports paid $243 million for the U.S. broadcast rights
to the Winter Olympics and, to get full value, it is
televising 116 hours, including some 50 hours in prime time.
That's 21 1/2 hours more than Capital Cities/ABC Inc.'s
network aired in the 1988 Games from Calgary.
   Richard Kostyra, executive vice president of J. Walter
Thompson, a unit of WPP Group, has at least two clients --
Kodak and Sprint -- in the Olympics. On Tuesday, one Sprint
ad appeared with a three-minute break. "I'm not thrilled I'm
in a three minute pod," he says. "But CBS is delivering a
great audience." Indeed, the four-night average rating for
the Olympics is 19.7%, comfortably above the 17% average CBS
guaranteed advertisers.
   The deluge of ads aside, CBS is under fire by some for
spending too much time on filler, features and commentary,
and not enough time on the action. Hal Boedeker, television
critic for the Miami Herald, says he has received complaints
from viewers who call CBS's coverage "unacceptable. They wish
CBS would shut up and get out of the way of the events."
   ---
   Total's Pregnancy Ads
                                                                                                       

   General Mills Inc., Minneapolis, agreed to discontinue
print ads for Total cereal aimed at pregnant women and pay
$30,000 in costs in a settlement of misleading advertising
charges with the attorneys general of New York and Texas.
   Without admitting wrongdoing, General Mills agreed to stop
running the ads, which focused on Total's nutritional
benefits and ran in the September issues of American Baby,
Childbirth, Lamaze and Baby on the Way magazines. Any future
ads directed at pregnant women that make claims about
calcium, vitamins or minerals must state how much of the
nutrients pregnant women need and how much Total provides.
   The ads were created by Saatchi  Saatchi Advertising, New
York, a unit of Saatchi  Saatchi Co.
   A General Mills spokesman called the charges "a
technicality," adding that the company didn't intend to
repeat the ads. The New York state attorney general's office
said the ads and labeling implied that Total provides
pregnant women with 100% of their vitamin and mineral
requirements. Total provides "less than 20%" of a pregnant
woman's daily calcium needs, the attorney general's office
said.
   ---
                                                                                                       

   Ad Notes. . . .
                                                                                                       

   FLORIDA LOTTERY: The long saga of the Florida Lottery
review ended yesterday when a lottery official dismissed the
last in a series of appeals by unsuccessful contenders for
the $25 million account. The Tampa office of Earle Palmer
Brown won the account, besting finalists BBDO South, a unit
of Omnicon Group in Atlanta; the St. Petersburg office of
W.B. Doner; and the Tampa office of Bozell, the incumbent.
                                                                                                       

   AMBUSH UPDATE: International Olympic Committee official
Richard Pound launched a second veiled threat of legal
"retaliation" against American Express for its "calculated
campaign" of "crude ambush marketing" at the Albertville
Games. He said the IOC had an "understanding" with American
Express and rival Visa U.S.A., in which Visa would limit
comparative ads to the U.S. and American Express wouldn't
pose as a sponsor. Both American Express and Visa said they
weren't aware of the agreement.
                                                                                                       

   MERCEDES: Mercedes-Benz of North America introduced
Olympic viewers to a new commercial for the 400E sedan from
agency McCaffrey  McCall, New York. McCaffrey is defending
the Daimler-Benz unit's account, its largest, in a review due
to end this month.
                                                                                                       

   TATHAM RSCG: Eurocom RSCG's Chicago unit said it had 1991
revenue of $33.4 million on billings of some $325 million, up
about 17% from 1990 revenue of $28.4 million on billings of
$278 million.
                                                                                                       

   WHO'S NEWS: David Tree, chief creative officer of
Campbell-Mithun-Esty's Minneapolis office, makes a cameo
appearance on NBC's "Cheers" tonight. Mr. Tree bought the
nonspeaking role at a charity auction last year, an agency
spokeswoman said.
   (See related letters: "Letters to the Editor: CBS at the
Olympics: Absolute Abomination" -- WSJ March 16, 1992)
   920213-0067