Economy:
   Big Retailers Are Expected to Report
   December Sales Barely Topping Poor '90
   ----
   By Francine Schwadel
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Discount stores and those focusing on moderately priced
basic apparel are expected to report better results than
rivals that charge higher prices.
   But three regional discount chains reported mixed results
yesterday. Venture Stores Inc., which operates largely in the
Midwest, said same-store sales rose 3.7%. Caldor Corp., which
operates in the depressed Northeast, said same-store sales
fell 1%. And Rose's Stores Inc., which operates in the
Southeast, said same-store sales slipped 0.5%.
   Toys "R" Us Inc., which also stresses its low prices, said
yesterday that same-store sales for the eight weeks ended
last Saturday rose 7.9%.
   In late New York Stock Exchange trading yesterday, Venture
stock was quoted at $25.50, up $1.125 a share; Toys "R" Us
was quoted at $34.75 a share, up $2; and Caldor was quoted at
$17.125 a share, down 87.5 cents. Rose's Stores stock climbed
12.5 cents to close at $4.25 in national over-the-counter
trading.
   The analysts said they expect consumers to continue to
spend cautiously, at least through the first half of 1992.
"We're certainly not looking for much improvement until the
second half," Ms. McGlade said, noting that most analysts
were forecasting a second-half recovery at this time last
year.
   Gap Inc., Wal-Mart Stores Inc. and Kmart Corp. are
expected to report gains in sales for December, while May
Department Stores Co., Sears, Roebuck & Co. and Woolworth
Corp. are likely to report sales declines. Dayton Hudson
Corp., which operates both discount and department stores, is
expected to report flat results.
   "Consumers are still very cautious," said Robert Roth of
Merrill Lynch Capital Markets. "They are staying with basic
kinds of items. I have no reason to believe the tone of
business in the first couple of quarters of 1992 is going to
be anything but the same kind of difficult trend we've seen."