What's News --
   World-Wide
Bush's new deputy campaign manager has earned over
$200,000 for his firm by providing public relations services
for the principal owners of the scandal-ridden BCCI,
documents showed.
   ---
   William Aramony resigned as president of United Way of
America and apologized for "my lack of sensitivity" that led
to complaints of mismanagement in the nation's largest
charity. There have been recent reports criticizing Aramony's
expenses and hiring practices. He has headed the United Way
for 22 years.
   ---
   Russia plans to speed economic reforms and free nearly all
prices before the end of next month. The new measures, which
the government concedes will cause still more pain for
Russians, are part of a proposal to be sent shortly to the
IMF, aides to President Yeltsin said.
   ---
   The House voted to suspend the forcible repatriation of
Haitian refugees for six months, but those still awaiting
return are likely to be back in Haiti before Congress
completes action on the bill. The measure faces an uncertain
future in the Senate, and the Bush administration has
threatened a veto if the bill is enacted by Congress.
   ---
   The U.N. Security Council is protesting to Iraq over
Baghdad's stalling on the destruction of equipment to produce
Scud missiles, council President Thomas Pickering of the U.S.
said. He told reporters he would immediately convey the
council's "consternation" to Iraqi diplomats in New York.
   ---
   Congressional negotiators neared agreement on a compromise
plan to provide up to $10 billion in loan guarantees for
Israel while putting pressure on Israel to sharply curb new
settlements in the occupied territories. The plan would give
Bush authority to cut off future guarantees if Israel pursued
settlement activity in the occupied lands.
                                                                                                       

   Arab-Israeli peace talks failed to make much headway, and
Syria said it may ask the U.S. and Russia to intervene in an
effort to reinvigorate the Washington negotiations. Israel
promptly rejected that idea.
   ---
   The Senate rejected an effort by conservative Republicans
to give Bush line-item veto authority to kill federal
projects he opposes. The 54-44 vote against the measure
followed an eight-hour speech by West Virginia Democrat Byrd,
who defended Congress's power over the purse.
   ---
   Germany and Czechoslovakia signed a friendship treaty in
Prague, and leaders expressed hope that the pact would allay
mistrust rooted in the Nazi era. But leftist newspapers and
politicians in Czechoslovakia criticized the pact, which must
be ratified by both countries' parliaments.
   ---
   Leftist rebels in El Salvador warned that the Salvadoran
peace process could unravel if the government clamps down on
peasants who have seized land. On Wednesday, President
Cristiani said any peasants involved in land seizures would
be evicted and declared ineligible for land redistribution
programs.
   ---
   Bush and Latin leaders pledged to carry out "an aggressive
agenda" to cut Andean supply lines of narcotics and curb
demand for drugs in the U.S. Concluding a two-day summit in
San Antonio, Texas, Bush vowed to "defeat the traffickers,"
but warned that the battle won't be won overnight.
   ---
   Indonesia dismissed three senior military officers and
moved to punish 11 other army men because of "mistakes" made
when troops fired on demonstrators in East Timor on Nov. 12.
The unprecedented disciplinary actions were announced by the
army's chief of staff, who had led a probe into the violence
in Dili, East Timor's capital.
   ---
   The U.S. announced it would reduce its carbon dioxide
emissions and donate $75 million to help other nations do the
same, raising hopes for an international accord to slow
global warming. U.N. talks on the pact will end today without
resolving a European demand that industrial nations cut
emissions to 1990 levels by the year 2000.
   ---
   Attack helicopters and tanks shattered a brief cease-fire
in the disputed enclave of Nagorno-Karabakh, with Armenia and
Azerbaijan both blaming each other for the renewed fighting.
The clashes prompted Iran's foreign minister to cancel a
mediation mission to the region.
   ---
   Thousands of looters rampaged for a third day in the
western Albanian town of Pogradec, and police didn't
intervene to stop them. Ten state warehouses were emptied of
food and consumer items, and some stores were ransacked,
officials said.
   ---
   Died: S.I. Hayakawa, 85, a semanticist and college
president who later became a U.S. senator, in Greenbrae,
Calif.