LEISURE  ARTS -- Critique:
   Wrapped Music: Packaging the Classics
   ----
   By Raymond Sokolov
Next came another intelligent assignment. And another dumb
reporter. He was sent to "interview" a princess who is the
direct descendant of the man after whom Albertville was
named. This somewhat formal aristocrat launched into a
concise biography of her ancestor, explaining that despite
his Catholic background he had been educated by Calvinists in
Geneva and then brought their "advanced ideas" to Turin. The
"journalist" was obviously nonplussed by this little
disquisition on the complex intellectual and theological
formation of a great Savoyard. Looking completely baffled
when the camera turned on him, all he could say was: "So he
was ahead of his time."
   The smart producers who arranged to get Mr. Pepin and the
princess on the air must have been gnashing their teeth at
the way the ultimate packaging of these authentic figures
turned out. But on balance two personalities of substance did
make it onto the Olympics program and they did manage to get
some real information onto the airwaves. This was a minor
triumph, considering the generally low level of expertise
even on sport that the CBS team has mustered. Why won't the
network trust experts or somewhat brighter people to do more
of the commentary?
   On the other hand, why should a sports broadcasting
package reach a higher level of substantive discussion than
the classical music packages currently attempting to market
CDs of the Saint Louis Symphony's patriotic "Leonard Slatkin
Conducts American Portraits" or of the fast-fingered if
soulless young Japanese violinist Kyoko Takezawa. BMG is
hard-selling them with promotional videos -- the one of Ms.
Takezawa ends with a voice-over saying that she "means
business."
   For the Saint Louis Symphony, BMG drafted General Norman
Schwarzkopf, who narrates Aaron Copland's "Lincoln Portrait."
The general actually does a good job of intoning the extracts
from Lincoln's writings. But the pomposity of the piece,
joined with a gaggle of lightweight Yankee Doodleisms (from
Virgil Thomson, Victor Herbert and John Philip Sousa, among
others), turns the estimable orchestra and its superb
conductor into a Fourth of July picnic band. Perhaps this
will lure a few more people into listening to Mr. Slatkin's
renditions of mainstream music -- and help to pay for such
efforts -- but it is no substitute for the fundamental music
education that would truly open up this world to a wide
public.
   As things stand, even the existing classical music public,
exemplified by subscribers to major symphony orchestra
concert series, often seems as uninformed and incurious as
the reporter who didn't understand Mr. Pepin's cooking
performance and couldn't be bothered to listen to him explain
it. At a recent New York Philharmonic concert, droves fled
the unfamiliar but comfortably old-fashioned Elgar First
Symphony.
   A few days later, the Philharmonic offered its faithful a
cosy evening of Schubert and Sibelius, with a slightly
provocative wake-up call in the middle, Stravinsky's capering
Violin Concerto (1931) performed by Ms. Takezawa, on tour to
promote her two new CDs.
   So there she was in the flesh, and clearly meaning
business. The fingers flew, the notes were all played
correctly, in time and in tune. But somehow, in all the years
she had been studying her instrument, from the age of three,
and at Juilliard here under the legendary tutelage of Dorothy
DeLay, Ms. Takezawa had missed the point of the art to which
she had devoted so much effort. The dash of the Stravinsky
was absent (as was the life she ought to have transfused into
the Tchaikovsky concerto and other works on her CDs).
   To some degree, this problem of liveliness may be a result
of the concert hall "package" itself. We have inherited
classical music in a 19th-century format -- large orchestras
in large halls. The original-performance movement militates
against the deadliness of this setting, but the fate,
especially of chamber music in our amphitheatrical musical
life, does not look bright.
   Two recent concerts here showed how much chamber music
benefits from being returned to its proper scene: the private
home. The first of these stunning invitational musicales was
a high-powered evening in the glamorous loft of a
well-connected writer who arranged to have the splendid
Takacs Quartet appear in his living room with the equally
talented pianist Andras Schiff. Every note sounded to full
advantage in the resonant space, and the equally refulgent
crowd (ranging from Paul Newman to Barbara Epstein of the New
York Review, from the playwright John Guare to Susan Sontag)
could hear even the pianissimo sighs of Gyorgy Kurtag's Third
String Quartet, which the New York Times critic Bernard
Holland complained were "swallowed up" at the group's
subsequent repeat of the piece for hoi polloi at cavernous
Carnegie Hall. The Kurtag work belonged in, he wrote, "one's
living room."
   The economics of the music business don't normally permit
top-flight players like Mr. Schiff and the Takacs to play
chamber music in a real chamber. At the loft event, one
supposed that an exception was being made for the elite
word-of-mouth the glittering crowd could provide (as well as
a welcome chance for the Takacs to hold a live rehearsal
before an intelligent audience). But there are other ways to
skin a cat, as a few lucky people saw this month at an
evening to commemorate the untimely death of a publisher.
   Friends and associates gathered in his former apartment
and eventually were surprised to learn that there would be a
brief concert. First Michael Cannon played "Berceuse" (1861)
by Louis Moreau Gottschalk, an affecting piano lullaby. Then
came forward three women students at Juilliard (Catherine
Cho, violin, Micah Yu, piano, and Alexis Gerlach, cello),
brought together for the evening under the aegis of Young
Concert Artists, to play the first movement of Brahms Trio
No. 1. Perhaps no one in the room listened with a neutrally
critical ear, given the circumstances, but it did seem like a
golden moment to me, with these young players rising about as
high as anyone could on the roiling tide of Brahms's score.