LEISURE  ARTS -- Bookshelf:
   Growing Old and Growing Up
   ----
   By Merle Rubin
Then one evening, as she's walking home from her favorite
local restaurant, Fanny witnesses a scuffle that results in
someone's death. Much to her own surprise, she finds herself
speaking up to stop the fight and is hit on the head for her
trouble. The resulting temporary partial amnesia, coupled
with her anxiety about being witness to a crime she can't
clearly recall, undermines her confidence.
   Harry and Isabel, Fanny's children, are too nice to apply
blatant pressure on their mother, but their concern about her
-- and about what will happen to the "family money" tied up
in her house -- are all too evident. Fanny can well imagine
what they are saying about her; she can practically hear the
whispers. "Rambling, poor old thing, stubborn," she imagines
them saying. "Of course, you have to make allowances, she's
had a nasty shock, but she's always liked her own way, you
can't deny there's a selfish streak in her, what has she ever
done for anyone?"
   The story of a gallant, beleaguered older woman and her
self-centered, whining adult children might easily have
degenerated into a predictable tear-jerker with the kind of
characters and situation found in made-for-television movies.
But Ms. Bawden's subtle characterizations go beyond the
stereotypical. Neither a hapless victim nor a cutely "feisty"
old dame, Fanny is portrayed as an intelligent and sensitive
woman, capable of generosity, anger, courage and even a
late-blooming -- and very believable -- romance. Ms. Bawden
has taken a timely subject but used the opportunity for an
unsentimental exploration of the emotional ambivalences of
family relations as well as the economic paradoxes of the
real estate market.
   In her equally prepossessing "Field of Stars" (William
Morrow, 253 pages, $19), Alice Mattison turns away from
timeliness in order to follow the unfolding youth of an
unprepossessing, not to say dumpy, Brooklyn Jewish girl named
Susan Sternfeld. By now, one would think, the subject of
coming of age in Brooklyn had been rather sufficiently
documented. But, as this novel reminds us, every life story
is slightly different, and Ms. Mattison, author of a story
collection and a book of poems, chronicles the quirks and
oddities of this particular life with a rigorous honesty not
afraid to sound awkward, so long as it remains true to the
mixed emotions it records.
   Susan is born during World War II, and from the age of
three is brought up by her father's parents, an ordinary and
endearing couple named Ezra and Leah. Susan's parents are
divorced: She seldom sees her father, a traveling salesman,
while her mother, Paula, more interested in meeting new men
than in raising her daughter, leads a semi-separate existence
in the upstairs apartment of her former in-laws' frame house.
   Growing up, Susan knows that her situation is different,
yet at the same time, she cannot help taking it as "normal"
because it's what she's used to. School forms a contrast to
her home life: It is "bright and sharp," with "dangerous
edges that could be seen and avoided." Home, however, is
"dark, like a drawer that hasn't been cleaned out in a long
time," with "knives in it so deep under the broken spatulas
and tarnished spoons that they have lost their shine and give
no warning before the finger touches them." Susan's family
secrets are not all that shocking: It's the murkiness and
irregularity that are unsettling.
   Yet when Susan meets the man she will finally marry,
everything seems amazingly clear. It feels to her as if
they'd somehow known each other even before they met. Tony
Donnelly is from a large Roman Catholic family as "normal"
and "functional" as any social worker might wish. But Tony's
youngest sister, Claudie, is a troubled, suicide-prone girl.
Just as Susan is drawn to the Donnelly clan, so Claudie is
drawn to Susan, then (to Susan's dismay) to Susan's
unmaternal mother, the man-crazy Paula. And, to top it all
off, Susan finds herself powerfully attracted to another man,
even as she is in the midst of starting married life.
   Avoiding the splashy and the sensational, Ms. Mattison
portrays the surprising complexities of ordinary life -- its
unseen "edges" -- with careful attention to the nuances of
human relationships. The precision of her style and focus
makes this first novel well worth a look.