Abreast of the Market:
   Industrials Post Rise of 7.83 Points,
   But Broader Market Measures Slip
   ----
   By Robert Steiner
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Advancing issues outpaced decliners by 890-831 on the Big
Board, where volume fell to 190,430,000 shares from
213,600,000 Friday.
   The American Stock Exchange Market Value Index lost 0.94
to 412.48. Advancing issues edged out decliners 307-306.
   "The activity was a little lighter than it has been," said
Larry Greenwald, head trader at Sanford Bernstein. "People
are waiting for President Bush's State of the Union address.
They're wondering whether we should continue to rotate" out
of growth stocks and into economically sensitive cyclical
stocks.
   Robert Stovall, president of Stovall/Twenty-First Advisers
in New York, warns that "during bull markets, presidential
speeches have been known to be rallykillers" because
investors' high expectations are easily disappointed.
   In the case of tonight's State of the Union address, leaks
suggest that Mr. Bush will use the speech to fire the opening
shots in a battle with Congress over a fiscal stimulus
package that could include cuts in the capital gains tax and
other incentives for investors.
   Stock investors could be disappointed if these proposals
fall short of expectations, and they might see that as a
reason to take profits on stocks that have soared in the past
month.
   Against that backdrop, yesterday's continued migration to
cyclical stocks suggests that "we're setting ourselves up for
a short-term correction," said Tim Love, a portfolio manager
at Marinvest, a unit of Hong Kong  Shanghai Bank. "The
market is anticipating far too much far too quickly."
   After this predicted correction, "investors would proceed
selectively into cyclicals," he said. "They'd be looking for
good underlying fundamentals" in selective stocks rather than
snapping up a broad range of economically sensitive issues.
   Some of those selections appeared to be playing out
yesterday, as shares of home builders showed strength.
Louisiana Pacific gained 1 to 54 5/8 after announcing
fourth-quarter earnings of 24 cents a share, in line with
analysts' expectations. Ryland Group added 1 5/8 to 26 1/4,
Kaufman  Broad rose 7/8 to 20 1/4, and Standard Pacific
moved up 3/4 to 13.
   Home builders have "some fundamentals going their way,"
Mr. Love said, such as low interest rates and high demand for
single-family dwellings.
   Christopher Pedersen, head trader at Twenty-First
Securities, suggested that a surge in automobile stocks was a
similarly selective cyclical bet. "The Big Three {U.S. auto
makers} have been trashed, and they're undervalued," he said.
"The money going into them is smart long-term money."
   Chrysler led auto stocks with a 1 1/2-point surge to 15 on
volume of three million shares, about three times its daily
average. Shearson Lehman Brothers analyst Joseph Phillippi
upgraded the stock to a "buy" from a "hold" because of its
new products. Ford Motor jumped 1 to 32 3/4, and General
Motors gained 1 3/8 to 34 1/8.
   Securities brokers, on the other hand, lost ground after
their strong run last week. PaineWebber fell 1 1/8 to 23 7/8;
Merrill Lynch lost 2 1/2 to 61 1/8 -- though the firm
reported record earnings for 1991 -- and Morgan Stanley fell
1 1/4 to 61 3/4.
   MBIA lost 1 5/8 to 45 1/4. The company, which insures
municipal bonds, announced it had filed with the Securities
and Exchange Commission a proposed offering of 8.2 million
common shares; 1.5 million new shares will be offered by the
company, and the rest will be sold by institutional MBIA
holders. As a result of the offering, 33.4 million shares, or
83.5% of the company, will be held publicly. The underwriting
will be led by Donaldson, Lufkin  Jenrette and Shearson
Lehman Brothers. MBIA also announced fourth-quarter earnings
of $1.03 a share, in line with analysts' expectations.
   Ivax jumped 2 3/8 to 38. The maker of pharmaceuticals and
medical diagnostic equipment said its Norton Healthcare unit
has acquired rights to market three drugs in the United
Kingdom and Ireland. The unit acquired the right to market
Serenace and Pro-Banthine, two prescription drugs, from G.D.
Searle. The other drug, Cordilox, was previously marketed by
Abbott Laboratories.
   Schering-Plough gained 5/8 to 63 5/8. The pharmaceutical
company announced fourth-quarter earnings of 71 cents a
share, better than the average of 69 cents a share projected
by 20 analysts surveyed by First Call, a unit of Thompson
Financial Networks. The company also reiterated its
projections of 18% to 20% growth in pershare earnings this
year. ScheringPlough's world-wide pharmaceutical sales jumped
12% last year, while its health-care products sales gained
17%.
   Promus lost 1 1/2 to 27 5/8. Shares of the hotel and
casino operator gained 2 1/2 Friday when a jury decided in
favor of its Holiday Inns unit in a lawsuit with a former
partner in one of Promus's Harrah's casinos. The former
partner, Louis Walter, charged that Holiday Inns had induced
him to sell his share in the casino at an unduly low price.