Technology:
   Next's Software
   Lets PCs Mimic
   Its Workstations
   ----
   By Stephen Kreider Yoder
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
"We're now becoming a software company as well as a
hardware company," said Mr. Jobs in an interview. Next
buyers, especially in corporations, have been urging Next to
rewrite its Nextstep workstation operating software to run on
PCs, he said. "We finally saw the light."
   To spread the light on its new products, Next has placed
large advertisements today in some editions of The Wall
Street Journal and has scheduled other ads to run in the
trade press as part of its normal advertising program.
   The new software reproduces the Next machine's "graphical
user interface" -- the collection of symbols and windows on
the screen -- on a PC that uses a fast version of Intel's
"486" microprocessor. The program, with a list price of $995,
will allow a PC to run slightly altered Next applications
software at about the same speed as a Next machine. Next
expects the program to be on the market in the third quarter.
   The new program, called Nextstep 486, is part of Next's
strategy of wooing corporate and government buyers to its
machines. Such buyers made up 81% of Next sales last year, up
from about 50% in 1990, Mr. Jobs said. But some companies
were reluctant to buy Next machines because the software
doesn't run on machines made by any other vendor, he said.
   Next's PC software "will give them more credibility" among
customers, said Vicki Brown, an analyst at International Data
Corp., a research firm. Nexstep is "the crown jewels of the
company; it's the way they've won a lot of business away from
Sun {Microsystems}."
   Next also unveiled faster and lower-cost versions of its
workstations and a new version of its Nextstep operating
software, which it expects to ship in the second quarter of
1992.
   Separately, Next said its 1991 sales more than quadrupled
to $127 million from $28 million in 1990. While
fourth-quarter sales of $33 million fell well short of Next's
expections of about $50 million, sales were very strong in
December, said Michael Slade, Next's executive director of
marketing. International sales accounted for about 43% of
revenue, he said. Closely held Next, Redwood City, Calif.,
doesn't disclose its earnings.