PERSONAL TECHNOLOGY
   ----
   By Walter S. Mossberg
A growing array of add-on products give computers and
printers faxing ability. Depending on your needs, PCs and
printers can replace, or at least supplement, stand-alone fax
machines. Properly equipped, they can mimic the three main
parts of fax machines: a mechanism for scanning documents to
be faxed, a special built-in phone for sending or receiving
images of documents, and a printing mechanism for reproducing
faxes on paper.
   There are limitations to faxing without fax machines. The
biggest drawback is that most setups can only send
computerized documents, not paper ones. But on the receiving
end, you have the pleasure of being free from greasy, curly
fax paper. You can simply read faxes on the screen, or print
them out on regular paper using your computer's laser
printer.
   The most popular faxing device for computers is a fax
modem. These products combine, in one unit, a standard modem
-- the specialized phones that send and receive computer data
-- and the telephonic guts of a fax machine.
   To transmit a fax with these devices, you use special
software to send an electronic document through the fax modem
to a regular fax machine elsewhere. When someone sends a fax
to you from a fax machine, the fax modem answers the call and
turns the transmission into a computer graphic image that can
be displayed on your screen or printed on your laser printer
(but would require massaging before it could be edited in
your word processor).
   I've tried two fax modems: the $179 Fax96 1-Liner by
Frecom, of Fremont, Calif., for my IBM-compatible PC; and the
$269 DoveFax, by Dove Computer, Wilmington, N.C., for my
Macintosh computer. Both work well, but there are many
others.
                                                                                                       

   Before choosing a fax modem, consider the software it
includes. The software should be easy to use and install, and
should let you maintain an automated phone list for quick and
simple sending, view and manipulate incoming faxes and create
customized cover pages.
   Dove's software and other Macintosh faxing programs allow
you to fax documents directly from word processors or other
programs by going through the same steps you would to print
the document but selecting the fax modem as your "printer."
An impressive $75 program called Winfax, from Delrina
Technology of Toronto, lets you do the same thing on
IBM-compatible computers running Microsoft's Windows program.
   Some fax programs have special features. The Fax96 modem's
software automatically determines whether an incoming call is
a regular voice phone call, a fax call or a standard computer
data transmission. Calera Recognition Systems, Sunnyvale,
Calif., offers a $99 Windows program called FaxGrabber that
automatically turns faxes being received by a fax modem into
text that can be edited in your word processor.
   A key advantage of using your computer as a fax machine is
that you can simply look at faxes on the screen and delete
the ones you don't want without wasting time or paper by
printing them. But a disadvantage is that, if you receive a
lot of faxes, they can hog your computer's memory and disk
storage space.
                                                                                                       

   One solution is to buy an add-on device that turns a laser
printer into a stand-alone fax machine, without requiring
incoming faxes to go through your computer. The JetFax II by
JetFax, Menlo Park, Calif., was an early entry in this
market. A slender box, it sits beside a Hewlett-Packard
LaserJet or compatible printer and automatically routes
incoming faxes to the printer. H-P now offers its own
competing fax add-on, a bigger unit called the LaserJet Fax.
Both devices can send computer files as faxes, but the H-P
can also send paper documents.
   These two products are relatively costly (around $700 for
the JetFax II, nearly $1,000 for the LaserJet Fax). Tall Tree
Systems of Palo Alto, Calif., offers a compact, $399
alternative called Fax-O-Matic. This little black box merely
lets an H-P or compatible laser printer receive faxes,
without the involvement of the computer. Extended Systems of
Boise, Idaho, makes a $599 device, the FaxConnection, that
goes inside an H-P laser printer to enable it to receive
faxes.
   The most elegant solution is the LaserScript Fax by Everex
Systems, Fremont, Calif. This is a laser printer with
built-in fax circuitry. It will automatically receive faxes
and let you send faxes from the computer. LaserScript Fax
sells for $2,500 to $3,000. Eventually, I suspect, most laser
printer makers will offer built-in faxing like this, further
eroding the need for separate fax machines, and that awful
fax paper.
                                                                                                       

   ADDENDUM: A few weeks back, I glibly described internal
modems as "sheets of silicon" with chips mounted on them. A
couple of eagle-eyed readers pointed out that the main part
of the modem isn't made of silicon, only the chips. I stand
corrected.