Money on Sale -- Profiting from Low Rates
   ---
   New Bonds for Old:
   Refinancing Promises
   Localities Big Savings,
   If Red Tape Can Be Cut
   ---
   Rules Can be So Complex
   It Takes Genius to Reap
   The Fruits of Low Rates
   ---
   High Yields in New York City
   ----
   By Constance Mitchell
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Despite its worst financial squeeze since the 1970s, New
York City is paying many bondholders sky-high interest rates
-- anywhere from 10% to 13.6% -- on $1.5 billion in bonds it
sold years ago. That's true even though the city can sell new
long-term bonds at about 7.7%.
   By refinancing its high-cost debt -- selling new bonds and
using the proceeds to pay off old ones -- New York could save
more than $40 million a year. That might not seem like much
for a city with a $27 billion annual budget, but right now
every penny counts, and the city could use the money to fix
crumbling bridges, upgrade troubled schools or fund
overcrowded hospitals. Chairman Felix Rohatyn of the state's
watchdog Municipal Assistance Corp. says "a city that has
trouble finding $28 million to get metal detectors in the
schools should scramble" for the savings that refinancing
offers.
   So why doesn't the city take a leaf from millions of
homeowners refinancing mortgages at lower rates? Why doesn't
it copy big U.S. corporations, which, so far this year, have
sold $62 billion of new bonds, with much of the proceeds
going to pay off high-cost debt?
   Because New York, along with many other local governments,
can't reduce its interest expenses so easily. Tax and other
laws "have become a real nightmare" for governments trying to
refinance debt, says Texas' state treasurer, Kay Bailey
Hutchison. She adds that some cities haven't restructured
their debt just because they want to "avoid dealing with" the
federal government's regulatory maze.
   Federal, state and local regulations are sometimes so
complex -- and the penalties for running afoul of them so
severe -- that the officials must turn for advice to a small
army of investment bankers, tax attorneys, bond counselors,
accountants and finance consultants. The cost of all of these
high-paid professionals sometimes eats up much of the savings
from a debt restructuring, a sore point that recently
prompted several state treasurers to complain to Congress.
   In New York City's case, "there's an awful lot of red
tape, whether it's the federal government or the fiscal
watchdogs, that gets in the way of some very sensible"
refinancings, says Philip Michael, the city's budget
director. "Even though New York City issues more debt than
most states, our hands are tied by the same rules that govern
a small school district." The city also can run into problems
with credit-rating agencies.
   Some investment bankers say the city bureaucracy drags its
feet in refinancing debt, largely because officials haven't
set up any system to take advantage of opportunities to save
relatively small amounts, say $10 million to $20 million.
   However, many state and local governments are making their
way through this bureaucratic swamp. Even New York City has
refinanced more than $1 billion of debt last year. So far
this year, municipal issuers have sold $39 billion of
long-term, tax-exempt bonds and notes, a record for the
period, according to Securities Data Corp. Nearly half the
new debt was used to pay off higher-yielding debt issued in
the early and mid-1980s, when interest rates even on
tax-exempt issues ran as high as 14%. Today, many
municipalities can borrow long-term at rates as low as 6%.
   In Boston, Buffalo, San Francisco and hundreds of other
cities, the savings from lower interest rates have been used
to plug budget deficits and alleviate the need for tax
increases. Many of these cities are so pressed for cash "that
they will need every dollar they can get their hands on,"
says Freda Johnson of Government Finance Associates,
municipal consultants.
   Two weeks ago, Maryland's financially squeezed Towson
State University moved to pay off $44 million of tax-exempt
bonds with interest rates as high as 14%, after selling new
bonds paying investors no more than 6.5%. The windfall, worth
nearly $800,000 a year, may go to refurbish a college gym
whose roof is collapsing and to cut each student's annual
dormitory bill by at least $100.
   But it took Towson, the largest liberal-arts school in the
Baltimore area, more than a year to complete its refinancing.
Among other steps, Towson had to win the approval of the
University of Maryland System's board of regents, the state's
General Assembly and the attorney general.
   The energy to get these deals done is usually well spent.
St. Alexius Hospital, a nonprofit hospital in Bismarck, N.D.,
recently slashed its borrowing costs on $30 million of
tax-exempt debt from an average of 10% to just under 7%; its
annual interest costs dropped $325,000.
   St. Alexius is using the savings to buy state-of-the-art
medical equipment, including a Candela laser tripter, a new
hightech device that dissolves gall and kidney stones. By
obviating surgery, the tripter should reduce the average
patient's hospital stay in such cases to three days from 10
and shave about $5,000 off the typical bill. But first, St.
Alexius had to hire bond lawyers to make sure its refinancing
would pass the scrutiny of the Internal Revenue Service and
of Medicare regulators, who have their own rules about
hospital debt refinancings.
   The biggest single obstacle to municipal refinancings, say
city and state officials, is an IRS rule limiting their most
popular refinancing technique: advance refunding. Billions of
dollars of high-coupon municipal bonds sold in the early to
mid-1980s haven't reached their "call" date, the earliest
date they can be redeemed, and therefore they can't be paid
off now. With long-term interest rates recently rising but
still much lower than in the 1980s, many states and cities
don't want to wait for call provisions to kick in. With an
advance refunding, as the term suggests, issuers can
refinance in advance of the call date.
   To do it, a municipality sells new bonds and uses the
proceeds to buy Treasury securities that it sets aside in an
escrow account. The interest income from the Treasury
securities, which often is higher than the interest paid out
on the tax-free municipal bonds, is used to pay the interest
on the old bonds until they can be called. Then the principal
from the Treasurys is used to retire the old bonds.
   But since the 1986 tax act, most bonds issued by local and
state governments and by nonprofit universities and hospitals
can be advance-refunded only once without incurring huge tax
penalties. Some types of municipal bonds can't be
advance-refunded at all without penalty. "The government
doesn't like the idea of two bond issues outstanding at the
same time when the proceeds were used for one project,"
explains Jay Eustis, a bond attorney at Hawkins, Delafield 
Wood in New York.
   Just about everyone in the municipals market agrees that a
certain amount of federal oversight is needed to discourage
municipalities from issuing too much debt, especially since
the federal government can't tax the interest that investors
earn on most municipal bonds. But although the IRS is moving
to ease and simplify its rules a bit, state treasurers such
as Texas' Ms. Hutchison contend the Feds are too tough.
   For example, the Lower Colorado River Authority could save
$12 million a year by replacing $300 million of its
tax-exempt bonds paying as much as 10.75% with lower-yielding
debt. But the Texas water agency ran into a roadblock because
it had refunded the bonds once before, in 1983. It found that
IRS penalties, plus consulting, legal and underwriting fees,
would have wiped out the entire $12 million annual savings
from another refunding.
   Seeking a way around the IRS rules, the water agency is
restructuring its debt in a complex four-part offering that
includes the sale of $225 million in taxable debt. The agency
still figures it can save as much as $50 million in interest
costs for the next seven years.
   William Freeman, chief financial officer of the Lower
Colorado River Authority, says it took 16 months to come up
with its restructuring plan. "We had to look at a number of
transactions" devised by several investment banking firms
before finding a viable plan, he adds.
   Though New York City also is hamstrung by the
advance-refunding rules, the nation's biggest municipal
borrower faces other hurdles, too. It already issues about $1
billion of bonds each quarter and fears that if it sells
additional bonds -- even if they are used to retire old debt
-- the weight of the new supply would drive up its
already-above-market borrowing costs and defeat the purpose
of any refinancing.
   Roger Anderson, an official in the city comptroller's
office, also says that although the city could save tens of
millions of dollars by refinancing some smaller issues, the
savings sometimes "aren't big enough" to justify the work
involved in arranging such a transaction.
   Nearly half of New York City's $1.5 billion of
high-yielding debt is held by Mr. Rohatyn's Municipal
Assistance Corp., a state agency created to rescue the city
during its last financial crisis, in 1975. In an effort to
reduce the interest paid on these bonds, some of which carry
rates as high as 13.6%, the city devised a complex financial
restructuring that would lengthen the maturity and sharply
reduce the interest payments temporarily. But the plan was
scrapped after the major credit rating agencies, Standard 
Poor's Corp. and Moody's Investors Service Inc., threatened
to downgrade the city's debt.
   Richard Larkin, an SP managing director, says the agency
disliked the plan largely because SP considered it a
"one-shot" deal that would reduce interest expenses in the
short term but, largely by lengthening the payback period,
cost the city more money over the long run.
   "The plan would not save the city money," he says. "It
just would allow them to reduce interest payments for three
or four years, but eventually they'd have to pay it back in
the later years. It's tantamount to deficit financing."
   Another $500 million of New York's 10%-plus bonds have
such high yields because they were issued as taxable, not
tax-free, bonds. Most of these were used to build and
subsidize low- and moderate-income housing. Congress in 1980
sharply limited the amount of such debt that could be issued
in the tax-exempt market and ruled that the debt couldn't be
advance-refunded at all. However, the IRS allowed the city to
refinance a small amount of housing debt in the tax-exempt
market last year. Now, the city is asking for another,
similar special ruling.
   But trying to get such permission is "the most amazingly
agonizing process to go through," says Mark Page, the city's
deputy budget director. "We've been battling with the IRS
since 1986."
   Despite the many obstacles, New York City has managed to
refinance about $1 billion in other debt in the past year. So
have state agencies that serve the city.
   The Metropolitan Transit Authority -- which has lost about
$587 million in state, city and federal subway funds over the
past five years and another $116 million in subway revenues
as ridership slipped -- says the restructuring of about $300
million of its old debt enabled it to stall an increase in
the New York subway fare for nearly a year. And even when the
fare eventually was raised in January, it went up only 10
cents, to $1.25, and not to the $1.40 originally planned.
   The MTA's director of finance, Edward Armendariz, likened
the debt restructuring to "pulling a rabbit out of a hat."
But the MTA, still facing a $263 million deficit, is working
with investment bankers to try to find some more magic
tricks.