Bill in Washington State Could Impede
   BankAmerica, Security Pacific Merger
   ----
   By Ralph T. King Jr.
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
"The bill does not stop the merger," said Michael Heavey,
chairman of the committee. "The overriding issue is the lack
of competition. We're concerned we'll have one big bully on
the block and we want to be participants in the (approval)
process, not just observers."
   But the bill, which would not become law until it is
approved by both houses of the state Legislature and signed
by Gov. Booth Gardner, may not give the politicians the role
they seek. Together, the two California banks hold 30.8% of
Washington's financial institution deposits, but BankAmerica
announced plans a month ago to cut that share to 26% through
the sale of $2.5 billion of those deposits and 69 branches.
Mr. Heavey said he was not aware of those plans.
   A BankAmerica spokesman said the banks are proceeding with
preparations for the merger. "Our view is that our dealings
with the Federal Reserve, the Justice Department, and the
(state) attorney general will resolve antitrust questions." A
spokeswoman for Security Pacific declined to comment.
   Meanwhile, a lobbyist representing BankAmerica reportedly
told Mr. Heavey's committee that the merger "could fall
apart" if the bill were passed into law. The lobbyist, Joe
Brennan, declined to comment on his reported statements but
did not deny having made them.
   How such a law could affect the merger approval process,
which is supervised by the Federal Reserve Board, is unclear.
But it is likely that federal law would supersede efforts by
a state to block a banking merger, although there is no clear
legal precedent, said Rodgin Cohen, an attorney with New York
firm Sullivan  Cromwell.
   He noted that bank mergers are subject to an exhaustive
process of competitive analysis and intervention by states
and other interested parties as provided by the federal Bank
Holding Company Act. "From the banks' side you have a much
stronger argument that Congress did intend to pre-empt state
law, though it may take a while for a court to reach that
conclusion," Mr. Cohen said.