Autos:
   Buyers of VWs
   Receive Cushion
   Against Layoffs
   ----
   By Jacqueline Mitchell
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The "Payment Protection Plus" program is designed to
reduce consumer fears about buying a car in the midst of a
recession, Volkswagen said. Under the plan, anyone who buys
or leases a new Volkswagen before March 31 will automatically
receive the added protection at no extra charge for up to
three years. The program will also cover vehicle insurance
payments for the same period.
   The offer doesn't apply to anyone who is fired for poor
performance or voluntarily quits a job. And the maximum
monthly payout is $500 a month, which includes both car
insurance and the lease or loan payment.
   Volkswagen began a national ad campaign for the program
last night during the television broadcast of President
Bush's State of the Union address. The commercial, a simple
announcement of the program terms created by the Detroit
office of Omnicom Group's DDB Needham, was strategically
placed between President Bush's speech and the Democratic
Party's response. The advertising will continue airing during
network and cable news shows until the end of March.
   Some industry experts said Volkswagen may be onto
something -- if only because its program stands out in an
industry littered with rebate offers. While the prices of new
cars deter many prospective buyers, many consumers appear
reluctant to lock themselves into a long-term loan or lease
agreement while corporate cutbacks and layoffs seem to be
sweeping the U.S.
   "This is a confidence-driven recession," said Christopher
Cedergren, senior vice president of AutoPacific Group Inc., a
California consulting concern. "Volkswagen's program might be
the catalyst to change some of that. It is a clever marketing
idea that has the potential of winning some buyers."
   Volkswagen needs to give its U.S. sales a push. They fell
29% in 1991 to 95,905 cars from 135,254 the year before. That
put Volkswagen's share of U.S. car sales at just 1.1%, about
one-sixth of its share 20 years ago, when VW was the
top-selling import in America. Despite the decline,
Volkswagen of America, the U.S. sales arm of Germany's
Volkswagen AG, has shied away from offering cash incentives
to attract car buyers.
   But Mr. Cedergren believes Volkswagen can get more mileage
out of its protection program. "I think this is money better
spent," he said. "They are going directly after the
confidence issue."
   Volkswagen declined to estimate how much it may have to
shell out to honor its promise. "We hope it costs us nothing
because we hope no one loses their job," a Volkswagen
spokesman said.
   Volkswagen buyers who get laid off for, say, three months
and then return to work or find another job can still use the
remaining nine months of eligibility if they're laid off
again.
   And if the loan or lease agreement was based on a
co-applicant's income -- for example, a husband and wife
buying a car with their joint earnings -- Volkswagen will
still pay a portion of the monthly car and insurance payments
if one gets laid off. The portion will depend on the earnings
of the person who loses the job.
   Volkswagen dealers, who were receiving details of the
program yesterday, said the offer may help spur sales. But at
least one salesman thought Volkswagen could sweeten the deal.
   Kenneth Johnson, a new car salesman at Big Billy Barrett
Volkswagen  Suzuki in Dallas, said people looking at cars
have to contend with sticker shock as well as with economic
uncertainty. "I feel they should put a rebate on it, too," he
said. "But Volkswagen doesn't do rebates."