Banks' Foreign
   Exchange Profit
   Declined in '91
   ---
   But Compared With Results
   In Other Recent Years,
   Figures Aren't So Bleak
   ----
   By John van Rosendaal
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The banks' foreign-exchange income before taxes and
interest charges declined, on average, 10% from 1990.
Excluding First Interstate, which posted a steep 99% tumble,
the banks posted an average decline of 7.8%.
   While the annual figures showed a mixed performance,
income in the fourth quarter -- when the dollar took a
sustained turn downward -- soared 35% from the third quarter,
on average. None of the surveyed banks posted a decline in
income from foreign exchange operations in the fourth
quarter.
   Market analysts cautioned against comparing full-year 1991
results with 1990 figures, as 1990 proved to be an unusually
successful year for currency-trading operations.
   Over the past five years, 1991 doesn't look as bleak as it
does in comparison with 1990 alone. Banks earned $2.3 billion
in 1987 from foreign exchange operations, $2 billion in 1988,
$2.1 billion in 1989 and $2.7 billion in 1990, according to
figures provided by MCM Currencywatch for about 20 major U.S.
banks. The sum of these banks' earnings was $2.4 billion in
1991.
   A Chemical Banking Corp. spokeswoman, for example, called
1991 "a good year" when compared with the years before 1990.
Chemical posted income of $289 million in foreign-exchange
operations in 1991, compared with $200 million to $250
million annually from 1987-89 and an "excellent" 1990, with
profit of $313 million, the spokeswoman said. Chemical
recalculated all its figures to include results of merger
partner Manufacturers Hanover Corp.
   Last year was a "relatively good year" for U.S. banks,
said Marc Chandler, senior market strategist at the
analytical services firm IDEA. To make money from currency
operations, banks need considerable volatility in exchange
rates along with a clear direction one way or the other in
the dollar. Last year offered these ingredients.
   Mr. Chandler said many banks profited from two clear
trends during the year: The dollar hit an all-time low of
1.4425 marks on Feb. 11, then reversed itself on the back of
the allied success in the Gulf War. The currency then reached
its high for the year on July 5, at 1.8427 marks, and headed
steadily lower thereafter, interrupted only by some mild
upward corrections and one violent surge during the Soviet
coup attempt in mid-August.
   That weekend attempt to oust Mikhail Gorbachev from power
stunned many dealers, who had positioned themselves for a
further slide of the dollar. Instead, the dollar rallied
sharply on Aug. 19 even as it was being restrained by central
bank intervention. Dealers scrambled to buy dollars on the
expectation that it would continue to soar because of the
crisis in Moscow, and many were left with big losses when the
coup crumbled and the dollar's "safe-harbor" premium
disappeared.
   The fourth quarter again gave traders a clear direction.
Banks were able to profit from the continued decline of the
dollar as the dismal state of the U.S. economy became the
currency market's main focus.
   Not all banks were able to benefit from currency moves
over the course of the year. That might have been caused by
making the wrong bets on those moves, but most banks decline
to comment on details of their foreign-exchange operations.
   Market analysts, however, said increased competition could
have contributed to the mixed earnings picture. David
Gilmore, senior foreign-exchange analyst at MCM
Currencywatch, said that over the past year, trading has
become much more competitive as corporations that used to
trade with one bank now shop around for the best prices. Many
U.S. banks also have to compete with overseas branches of
major foreign banks, Mr. Gilmore said. Citicorp, for example,
continues to profit from its central role in the world's
currency markets and its wide customer base, analysts say.
Citicorp's foreign-exchange income was up 7.9% to $709
million last year, more than double the $289 million reported
by Chemical. The bank declined to talk about its earnings.
   BankAmerica, whose foreign-exchange income rose 19% to
$246 million last year, attributed the gain to being
positioned correctly at the right moments and to its
emergence as a market leader in general. This and an improved
credit rating attracted customers to its foreign-exchange
dealings, a spokeswoman said. Bank of Boston, with a
full-year foreign-exchange increase of 11% to $41 million,
also emphasized its increasing focus on customer dealings.
   The bank's overall interest is customer-driven, with only
"modest" trading for its own accounts, said Craig Bentley,
head of foreign-exchange trading and managing director of
Treasury marketing and trading.
   He said the bank seeks to be less dependent on market
volatility and risk-taking and to focus instead on building a
diversified and solid business to attract new customers.
   Mr. Bentley said Bank of Boston wasn't "aggressively
positioned" in either of 1991's most volatile periods -- the
Gulf War or the Soviet coup attempt.
   He said the bank's traders used to take more risks but are
now redirecting their efforts. In the highly charged,
competitive atmosphere, banks have to make a choice between
proprietary trading and trading for clients, Mr. Bentley
added.
   "If they try to be good at both, they end up doing a
mediocre job" in both, he said.