International:
   World Wire
   ----
   Compiled by Richard L. Holman
European Community Commission President Jacques Delors
called for a major increase in EC spending to meet the trade
bloc's growing world role.
   He told the European Parliament that the EC's ambitions
for economic, monetary and political union require a 35%
increase in the annual budget to about 85 billion European
currency units ($108.89 billion) by 1997. This includes new
funds to help southern EC countries prepare for monetary
union and to aid central and eastern European neighbors'
economic and political transformation.
   But the spending campaign will test Mr. Delors's
leadership, as the 12 member states face slow growth and
budget austerity. Only Germany, France and Britain pay more
than they receive under the EC budget; under the five-year
plan, Italy, the Netherlands, Belgium and Denmark also would
be net contributors.
   Priority and more money would be given to agriculture,
economic development in poor regions, enhancement of
industrial competitiveness such as in research and
development, and aid to former East bloc and North African
states.
                                                                                                       

   GAINS FOR WOMEN IN PHILIPPINES
                                                                                                       

   A bill barring discrimination against women was signed
into law in the Philippines. Until now, married women needed
their husbands' consent for bank loans or passports. The law,
which gives women equal access to government and private
credit, aims to make them a force for economic development in
the country, where men have dominant roles. It also
designates part of foreign assistance funds for women's use
in income-generating projects, especially in rural areas.
                                                                                                       

   INITIAL CZECHOSLOVAK SELL-OFFS
                                                                                                       

   Czech and Slovak officials approved proposals to put 200
companies in private hands, in the first wave of the
republics' privatization program. The proposals have a value
of 77 billion crowns ($2.79 billion). Plans to sell off
11,500 companies -- 10,000 of them in the Czech republic --
valued at 260 billion crowns must be approved by mid-March,
when Czechoslovaks may bid for shares or get ownership in
privatized firms through new investment funds.
                                                                                                       

   OECD NATIONS' CONSUMER PRICES
                                                                                                       

   Consumer prices in most of the rich industrialized
countries were flat in December, after having risen at a
monthly rate of 0.3% in November. The 24-nation Organization
for Economic Cooperation and Development said the data
excluded Turkey, where prices rose 4.4%. For 1991, the OECD
inflation rate excluding Turkey was 3.7%, down about two
percentage points from a year earlier, chiefly because of
lower oil prices. Excluding food and energy prices, the
annual underlying inflation rate was 4.2%, down one point.

   FOREIGN INVESTMENT IN INDONESIA
                                                                                                       

   Foreign investment in Indonesia last year edged up 0.3% to
$8.8 billion from a year earlier. Among the most attractive
sectors were the hotel industry with $4 billion and the
chemical industry with $923 million. Moving up from third
place last year, Taiwan ranked first among foreign investors
with $1.05 billion, dethroning Japan, with $955.9 million,
which was followed by Britain with $535.7 million.
                                                                                                       

   VIETNAM'S FOREIGN-CAR APPETITE
                                                                                                       

   The market for foreign cars is swelling in Ho Chi Minh
City, where a used Ford Falcon can be had for about 3.5
ounces of gold, or $1,250, Vietnam said. At least 20 auto
sales rooms have sprung up in the prosperous business capital
of the Communist country, which is pursuing economic reforms.
The outlets typically specialize in one make of car, and
prices vary widely. Buyers usually pay in dollars or gold.
Most of the autos are imported from Bangkok through Cambodia.
                                                                                                       

   SEOUL TAKES AIM AT JETS, WAGES
                                                                                                       

   To reduce South Korea's bulging trade deficit and
stabilize the economy, Seoul moved to suspend commercial
aircraft imports and curb wage increases.
   The government also wants Korean Air Lines and Asiana to
stop using foreign loans to buy aircraft. South Korea last
year had a record trade gap of $9.6 billion, and partly
blames aircraft imports. Loans in 1991 to import 11 planes
totaled $100 million from abroad because of the tight grip on
the domestic money supply. Korean Air said it won't alter its
contracts to import 11 jets this year; Asiana hopes to buy
six planes.
   Meanwhile, in a move to fight inflation and boost
industrial competitiveness, President Roh Tae Woo said that
if voluntary measures fail to curtail excessive wage boosts,
the government will clamp down on management and labor. Wages
have nearly tripled in the past five years.
   Despite the growing trade deficit, South Korea said it
wouldn't slow or alter its economic liberalization, and vowed
to make exports more competitive and not to restrict imports.
                                                                                                       

   POSTSCRIPTS . . .
                                                                                                       

   Of tourists' complaints filed last year in South Korea,
31% involved taxi drivers. These ranged from inflating fares
by taking longer routes, to feigning engine trouble and
asking passengers to get out, then speeding off with their
luggage. Tourism officials said the "rude and greedy" drivers
could hurt Seoul's campaign to attract investors and
visitors. . . . A bathroom supply firm's survey of 2,500
Britons found they will spend a year of their lives in the
tub, where they daydream, read books, talk on the phone and
even bring their pets -- rabbits, turtles and cats -- in for
a splash.