Belgium to Weigh
   Sabena Alliance
   With Air France
   ----
   By Brian Coleman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
But growing concerns that Air France would back out of the
deal and that the delay might fatally injure Sabena led
Transport Minister Jean Luc Dehaene to urge his fellow
ministers to take up the case.
   "It takes so long to form a government that we have to
make a decision," a spokeswoman for Mr. Dehaene said.
"Otherwise it will be a disaster for the Belgian state if
there is no Sabena any longer."
   "We have the impression that if we wait a longer time,
maybe in fact the partner is going to say goodbye," she
added.
   The partnership agreement involves the Air France-led
group investing about six billion Belgian francs ($179.5
million) in Sabena in return for a stake in the ailing
carrier. If approved, the deal would trigger a nine
billion-franc cash injection from the Belgian government
under a state rescue plan for Sabena.
   The agreement with Air France was reached in October, but
Belgium's governing coalition collapsed before ruling on the
issue. Although elections were held in November, a coalition
has yet to emerge.
   Two weeks ago, a meeting was held between Air France
Chairman Bernard Attali, Sabena Chairman Pierre Godfroid and
Mr. Dehaene. Mr. Dehaene's spokeswoman wouldn't disclose what
was discussed, but Mr. Attali has previously threatened to
pull out of the proposed partnership.
   A further impetus for action came two weeks ago, when
European Community Transport Commissioner Karel Van Miert, a
Belgian Socialist, attacked the government's initial refusal
to consider the agreement as irresponsible. In addition,
Sabena's unions have urged the government to consider and
approve the plan.
   On Friday, Mr. Martens said he expected the government to
take up the issue this week, but Mr. Dehaene's spokeswoman
cautioned that it may take longer. "If not {this} week, it
will be in a few weeks," she said.
   Sabena welcomed the government's move, but a spokeswoman
for the airline said its attention is now on the government's
final decision. "We hope it will be positive for us, but one
cannot say what will happen," she said. "We will wait and see
and hope."
   Some industry analysts have questioned whether Flemish
members of the government will try to veto the proposal.
   Even if the partnership is approved by the Belgian
government, the EC must also give its consent.