AppleTree Markets
   Seeks Protection
   Under Chapter 11
   ----
   By Karen Blumenthal
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Under the Chapter 11 plan, the company will continue to
operate under court protection from creditors as it tries to
pay its debts.
   The filing is expected to affect Safeway Inc., which is
still responsible for a number of AppleTree's leases if
AppleTree doesn't make the payments. Safeway said in November
that it would take a charge in the fourth quarter to reflect
its liability for AppleTree's obligations after AppleTree
said it would miss rent payments on certain facilities.
   Although Safeway wouldn't be specific, the company is
believed to be responsible for leases on about 18 stores and
AppleTree's Houston distribution center.
   A Safeway spokesman said the Oakland, Calif., grocery
chain won't know the exact amount of the charge until later
this month. Safeway previously said the charge wouldn't have
a material impact on its cash flow or financial position,
although it would hurt fourth-quarter results. In the fourth
quarter a year ago, Safeway had net income of $27.7 million,
or 28 cents a share, on sales of $4.64 billion.
   AppleTree has been in trouble for several months, but its
prospects worsened in November when a plan calling for
Odyssey Partners Limited Partnership to inject $10 million in
new capital fell through. The company missed its $5.8 million
interest payment on its subordinated debt in May, but
debtholders had agreed to a stand-still agreement, meaning
they wouldn't accelerate the debt or force the company into
bankruptcy proceedings until after the end of February.
Long-Term Credit Bank also had agreed that it wouldn't
accelerate its debt until after Feb. 28.
   The company said Long-Term Credit Bank has indicated that
it is willing to provide as much as $15 million in financing
for working capital while the company operates under
bankruptcy-law proceedings and an additional $10 million to
retire the Congress Financial credit line, which AppleTree
received just last June.
   For the nine months ended Sept. 7, the company had a net
loss of $14.4 million on sales of $569.3 million.