LEISURE  ARTS:
   Film: A Tenor; Irons as Kafka; Tough Times
   ----
   By Julie Salamon
British director and co-screenwriter Peter Chelsom is a
wonderfully unpredictable storyteller who spent 10 years as
an actor, then quit to make movies. But it wasn't that simple
a move. Before "Hear My Song," his first feature-length
movie, he directed 36 television commercials. Finally, taking
what he'd learned selling beer and newspapers, he decided it
was time for the grunt work to pay off. He made an 11-minute
film that was noticed on the film-festival circuit. Then he
moved to the next step, to see if he could transfer his
developing skills to a far more demanding form, to real movie
making. He did, with a combination of intuition and technique
that is particularly impressive.
   Mr. Chelsom found his story in the real-life tale of Josef
Locke, a popular Irish tenor of the 1950s who left England to
avoid arrest for tax evasion. During the nine years he spent
in exile, a Josef Locke imitator who called himself "Mr. X"
would play to sellout crowds throughout England. Even after
his tax problems were solved, Locke remained a recluse,
performing only when the mood struck him. The mystery and the
romance of Locke's dodgy relationship with his public was
part of the folklore Mr. Chelsom grew up with in Blackpool,
the seaside resort where the tenor regularly sang.
   "Hear My Song" isn't a literal-minded version of the Locke
story. It's something much better: an enchanted investigation
of the romance of the story. The movie is about what Locke
came to mean to people he knew and people he didn't know --
about the way that dreaming of Locke allowed certain people
to feel happier, just knowing this man with a beautiful voice
existed somewhere. It's also about Locke's reluctance to
accept the responsibility of having power over other people's
dreams.
   But the film based on the Locke mystique isn't weepy or
sentimental. Mr. Chelsom and his co-writer, Adrian Dunbar,
who also stars, have an astringent wit and a deep pragmatism
that anchor the fantasy, make it seem real. They've placed
the search for Locke in the hands of the fictional Micky
O'Neill (played by Mr. Dunbar), a concert promoter bent on
reviving Heartley's, an old theater club. Micky's a born
manipulator. He thrives in the show-business world not
necessarily because he loves performers but because he loves
the business. It offers so many angles to play.
   Micky is an improviser. When an act doesn't show, he takes
to the stage, ignoring catcalls from the audience. He
believes that he can sell his public anything, even a singer
who goes by the name Franc Cinatra. (He seems to get a
special kick out of this kind of minor con.) He doesn't seem
to be caught up in the lore of the club so much as in the
momentum of it. He plays by instinct, and so the serendipity
of show business seems perfect for him.
   He behaves much the same in his private life. He's always
making the extravagant gesture to win Nancy, his girlfriend,
without really thinking of the consequences (that inevitably
she'll want something more -- she'll demand that he tells her
he loves her). Eventually, however, Micky finds himself in a
situation he can't smooth over with charm or sleight of hand,
a situation that sets him off on an odyssey, to find Josef
Locke.
   The picture has a fluid momentum, beautifully sustained by
Sue Gibson's gifted camera work and John Altman's breezy
score. The cast works like a dream, especially Ned Beatty as
the mysterious Locke. This is the kind of film in which two
characters break into a soft shoe and it seems like the most
natural thing for them to do.
   ---
   Steven Soderbergh had a splashy debut three years ago with
"sex, lies and videotape," his fresh and funny movie about
relationships. For his next film he decided to try something
even more ambitious, a movie about Franz Kafka. This would be
no ordinary biography, and it wouldn't be a film version of
one of Kafka's works, but rather a merger of the two -- a
suspense story with Kafka as hero.
   Working from a script by Lem Dobbs, Mr. Soderbergh did
make this movie.
   "Kafka" is beautiful (filmed evocatively in black and
white on location in Prague), it is intelligent, and it
simply doesn't work. The main problem seems to lie in the
script, which has imposed the style of a Hitchcockian
thriller onto a hallucinatory Kafkaesque theme -- without the
dark humor of either Hitchcock or Kafka. The form is perfect,
yet all the life seems squeezed out. Even the gifted Jeremy
Irons seems moribund, in the title role.
   ---
   Ernest Dickerson's "Juice" is the latest picture from a
black film maker to explore the dangers the streets present
to young black men. These pictures have become the
contemporary western, with urban streets replacing Dodge City
as the place where men fight the cruel forces from within and
without -- and with rap music replacing Aaron Copland scores.
   This is the directing debut of Mr. Dickerson, the talented
cinematographer of many Spike Lee films as well as John
Sayles's "The Brother From Another Planet." Not surprisingly,
the film looks good. Mr. Dickerson also drew good
performances from his unknown actors, and creates a lively,
charged atmosphere for what has become a rather predictable
story.
   ---
   VIDEO TIP:  For no particular reason, I decided to watch
"The Apartment" the other day, the Billy Wilder film about a
low-level insurance executive who advances himself by letting
his superiors use his apartment as an illicit love nest. Jack
Lemmon and Shirley MacLaine, like everyone and everything
else in this dramatic comedy, are just great.