International -- Washington Insight:
   Bush Advocates Remodeled U.N.
   But Is Wary of Ideas on the Table
   ----
   By Robert S. Greenberger
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
"Everyone is in favor of reform; it's just that, in terms
of national interest, nobody wants to have to pay too high a
price for it," says John Tessitore, director of
communications for the United Nations Association of the
U.S., a private group.
   When the U.N. was founded after World War II, its charter
called for a standing peacekeeping force to police the world.
The force was to be managed by the victorious allies -- the
U.S., Britain, France, the Soviet Union and China -- who
appointed themselves permanent members of the Security
Council. But then the Cold War began, and the Soviet Union
used the power of the veto granted to each permanent member
to block action. The few peacekeeping forces that have been
put together were established on a case-by-case basis to
handle particular situations. Usually, they came in after a
cease-fire had been negotiated.
   Advocates of a permanent peacekeeping force say it could
respond more rapidly to crises and perhaps even head off
problems by moving into trouble spots quickly to separate
combatants. France, for one, has offered to provide 1,000
troops for the force with 48 hours' notice.
   While the U.S. objects to providing troops that might be
led by foreign commanders, some Third World nations fear that
such a force would be used by major powers to violate their
sovereignty, perhaps by policing perceived human-rights
violations or intervening in ethnic strife or even
environmental problems.
   Meanwhile, some U.N. officials say that if the Security
Council is to reflect the realities of the 1990s, Germany and
Japan should be granted permanent membership. The council
currently consists of the five permanent members and 10 other
nations elected for two-year terms. Germany, which isn't
currently a member, was missing when the council held its
summit last month. Yet Germany will be called upon to help
pay the bills as the U.N. role is expanded. Japan, another
economic giant, is lobbying hard for a permanent seat, U.N.
officials say.
   The U.S. says it supports permanent membership for Japan
and Germany, but it isn't pressing for quick action.
Expanding the council's membership would require opening up
the U.N. Charter, and U.S. officials fear that would create
new problems. Some Third World nations would be sure to call
for an end to the permanent members' veto power. Moreover,
U.N. experts say, other large nations such as Brazil, India
and Indonesia would be likely to seek permanent membership. A
U.S. official argues that U.N. action in authorizing last
winter's Persian Gulf War against Iraq shows that the current
rules work well.
   Similarly, the Bush administration questions the value of
expanding the U.N. role in nuclear arms reduction talks. The
U.S. says the best results are achieved when only the nuclear
powers are at the table. "It's much more difficult to imagine
successful negotiations when kibitzers are there," says one
official.
   The U.S. does support an active role for the U.N. in
keeping track of conventional weapons transactions.
   In the U.S., a leading Democratic presidential contender,
Gov. Bill Clinton of Arkansas, differs with the
administration on the future of the U.N. In a speech in
December, he endorsed the idea of a U.N. "rapid-deployment
force that could be used for purposes beyond traditional
peacekeeping." He also backed making Germany and Japan
permanent members of the Security Council.
   President Bush, however, isn't likely to back up his own
calls for an expanded U.N. role by supporting bold changes.
Some experts say the administration isn't likely to do more
than call for a paring of the U.N.'s bureaucracy -- a
campaign that won't have much impact, but one with which the
U.S. and most of its allies can agree.