Letters to the Editor:
   The People vs. Lizards and Owls
Still, the figures are wrong; they were gleaned from an
incomplete report by the World Wildlife Fund. The final
report cites 71,560 federal projects, some 230 of which have
been "deactivated or put on hold for unknown reasons." The
reason is that the act prohibits virtually any activity its
administrators deem a threat. The reason for that,
unfortunately, is because Congress has pronounced that all
nonhuman species are of "incalculable" value, prompting the
Supreme Court to say that "the plain intent of Congress was
to stop extinction" no matter what the cost.
   If it is true that critics of the act have "wildly
exaggerated the act's impact on growth," as Mr. Sawhill
argues, why is it that the Nature Conservancy (and other
preservation groups) has so vehemently opposed compensating
landowners for lost economic use of their property? Perhaps
they know it would cost too much. And clearly, "too much" is
enough to affect growth significantly.
   Mr. Sawhill can't have it both ways; either the act "works
for people" and compensates them for their losses, or it
works against them by forcing them to bear the costs of the
act themselves. Because the latter is the case, the act
simply doesn't work for people. Nor, however, does the act
work for animals and plants nearly as well as Mr. Sawhill
claims. In its 1990 Report to Congress, the U.S. Fish and
Wildlife Service states "the ultimate goal is to restore
listed species to a point where they are viable
self-sustaining components of their ecosystems, so as to
allow delisting." In contrast, Mr. Sawhill's chairman wrote
the following in a recent fund-raising letter: "Our objective
here at the Nature Conservancy is to keep that list as long
as possible."
   It appears the conservancy is accomplishing its objective.
Only 17 species have been delisted since 1973. Seven were
delisted due to extinction and four were removed because of
"original data error." According to the National Wilderness
Institute, three of the remaining six recovered from natural
and other factors unrelated to the act. The Fish and Wildlife
Service report mentions only the American alligator as a
delisting "success story." However, even the National
Wildlife Federation, a group that often sues the government
for not adequately protecting endangered species, wrote in
1987 that "it now appears that the animal never should have
been placed on the endangered species list."
   Mr. Sawhill, of course, invokes the alligator's
"remarkable recovery" to support his contention that "the act
works." It doesn't -- not for animals nor plants, and
certainly not for people. Unless, that is you happen to work
for the Nature Conservancy, which raises hundreds of millions
of dollars each year off of the failed promises of the
Endangered Species Act.
   Ike C. Sugg
   Fellow in Environmental Studies
   Competitive Enterprise Institute
   Washington
   ---
   How can Mr. Sawhill miss the point so? Or does he really
understand, but wants us to be confused? The real issue with
the Endangered Species Act is not that only a small fraction
of projects are halted by the application of the act -- only
23 out of 34,600 in Mr. Sawhill's example. The fact is that
every development project is affected by the act, including
projects where no endangered species are even present. As to
Mr. Sawhill's "short-term economic sacrifices," the studies,
delays and mitigation needed to make these projects succeed
affect every businessman and American through wildly
escalating project costs.
   Despite Mr. Sawhill's glib assurances, no
endangered-species conflict is easily resolved. Did readers
catch the true yet hard-to-believe fact in his column that it
took 400,000 acres of mitigation habitat in Las Vegas to free
up only 22,000 acres for development? At 18 to 1, is that a
fair ratio -- one that "accommodates" business? As to the
fringe-toed lizard brouhaha near Palm Springs, Mr. Sawhill
must have forgotten the drawn-out, complex, multilayered and
multiagency process that ensued. Protecting the lizards
involved, among many other things, a complex land exchange
between the Interior Department and a former affiliate of our
company. This wasn't inexpensive, neat or easy, and it didn't
happen overnight.
   George G. Byers
   Vice President, Government Affairs
   Santa Fe Pacific Minerals Corp.
   Albuquerque, N.M.