Workplace:
   More Firms `Gender Train' to Bridge
   The Chasms That Still Divide the Sexes
   ----
   By Laura L. Castro
   Staff Reporter of the Wall Street Journal
Ms. Helm is retelling the story as part of a two-day
gender-awareness seminar being staged by Arthur Andersen &
Co. here. She points out that women cry to express anger and
frustration -- no better or worse than a male's swearing, or
pounding on a table. "Don't focus on the tears," she advises
male colleagues who say that crying at work makes them
uncomfortable, "there still is a valid business point behind
the emotion."
   In the wake of the Anita Hill-Clarence Thomas sexual
harassment controversy, issues relating to men and women in
the workplace have never been more closely scrutinized. And,
says Muriel Lazar, a principal of Harbridge House, the
Boston-based consulting firm that helped create the Andersen
seminar, those issues go well beyond unwanted sexual
advances. Women managers are dropping off the corporate fast
track at an alarming rate, she contends, because their
emotional makeup and management styles are misunderstood by
the men who still dominate most of corporate America.
   With concern rising over gender issues, more companies are
seeking help from such gender and diversity consultants as
Harbridge House, which currently offers its training to 30
corporations. U S West Inc. and Motorola Inc. hired Anthony
Ipsaro, a Denver-based management consultant specializing in
male psychology, to conduct seminars that attempt to change
attitudes and behaviors among white male managers.
   In the seminars staged by Warren Farrell, San Diego-based
author of "Why Men Are the Way They Are," both men and women
role-play. He stages mock beauty contests that let male
managers "switch places emotionally" with female colleagues.
"At first it's experienced as a joke," he says. "But then
every man in the room is rejected except for the winner and
gets to experience the love-hate relationship most women have
with their body."
   Though companies seem to be worrying more about gender
issues these days, a few have been grappling with them for
years. Corning Inc. -- one of the first companies to adopt
the Harbridge House program, which it began in 1988 -- used
to spend $4 million a year on recruiting and training women
because of the high attrition rate among women managers, says
Janet McLaughlin, manager of strategic corporate education
for the glass, ceramic and laboratory-services company.
   But since it began requiring gender training of its 3,000
managers -- including the chief executive officer -- in
addition to career planning and mentoring programs, the
expenses have been cut in half, and so has the dropout rate.
"We've always recruited women," says Ms. McLaughlin. "The
difference is now they're staying."
   Unlike the 1970s and '80s, when women took assertiveness
training and tried to emulate male manager styles, today's
gender training encourages behavior that allows the
differences between the sexes to flourish. Men and women
"have been raised differently," says Ms. Lazar, "and there is
some evidence that there are differences in the way our
brains function."
   Women think in broader terms and see lots of alternatives,
she says -- something -- men often equate with
indecisiveness. Other experts say women tend to explain the
relevance of their actions, and men tend to announce their
accomplishments more.
   Not everyone buys into those generalizations, but most
tend to agree there are some differences, and that inevitably
leads to problems. "In the long run, if men view women as
different, they'll view women as unequal," says psychologist
Joseph Pleck, a research associate at the Wellesley College
Center for Research on Women.
   Women frequently complain that their male bosses don't
allow them to express emotion in public, for example, and
pressure them to adopt male characteristics. Women managers
say they feel they have to work harder to succeed than men
do. And the networking and mentoring that serve to propel
males up the corporate ladder often don't exist for women.
   That the Harbridge seminar has taken root at Arthur
Andersen is significant: Few companies have had more of a
reputation as an all-male club. Andersen was like "the
Marines of the accounting profession," recalls Robert
Kralovetz, the Dallas audit chief, who joined the firm in
1964. "You had to climb over the wall, or climb through it."
   Many women just deserted. While women constituted
one-third of new hires in the early 1980s, only 4% of
Andersen's partners are women, and only one in four is a
manager.
   Currently, close to half of Andersen's new hires are
women, and the company is intent on retaining a higher
percentage. So officials have established child and eldercare
programs, instituted flexible work schedules and adapted
Corning's program. By the end of this month, the firm expects
that all 250 managers and partners in its Dallas office, site
of a yearlong test of the program, will have completed the
seminar.
   A recent Dallas session illustrates the chasm between the
sexes. When group leaders ask the 20 participants -- 14 men
and six women -- to name some gender issues, none of the men
can think of one.
   Participants list the advantages and disadvantages of
being male or female and the gender shibboleths they learned
growing up. A male manager complains about hearing a female
manager admiring another woman's shoes in the elevator. Women
who talk about clothing aren't being professional, he
insists. "What about men talking about sports in the
workplace?" counters Maryann Correnti, one of the firm's few
female partners, "Why is that more acceptable?" The debate
rages for 45 minutes.
   On a more serious subject, Ms. Correnti says that to
succeed, she felt she had to postpone having children, a
course she doesn't recommend.
   Even lunch is a problem. Susan Staley, a 48-year-old tax
staff member, objects to being excluded from these
get-togethers, where men frequently talk about clients and
how they plan to resolve ticklish situations. Robert
McAndrew, another partner, later says he didn't consciously
exclude women from lunch invitations and wasn't aware that
men in attendance might be gaining an unfair advantage.
   Other participants also say the seminar changed their
attitude. Mr. Kralovetz says the Dallas office is reviewing
the way it assigns managers to projects, acknowledging a past
reluctance to offer women with children out-of-town
assignments. And he says he's using "genderless" terms in
performance-review meetings.
   But experts warn the program is far from a panacea. Some
men "don't get it," says Joseph Stokes, a University of
Illinois at Chicago psychology professor who has lectured at
the Arthur Andersen workshop several times. "They worry a
push to bring gender to the forefront is going to work
against them" by fostering reverse discrimination. And while
the seminar tries to make both men and women more comfortable
in the workplace, he says, "in practice, it tends to focus on
issues that make life more difficult for women."
   Firms shouldn't assume "that everyone has bought into this
behavior change," says Mary Mattis, vice president of
Catalyst, a New York-based women's research group. Companies
should link the training to salary increases, bonuses and
performance appraisals. Without holding managers accountable
for change, she says, "you don't know they've changed
anything except the words they use." Catalyst last spring
honored Andersen with an award.
   Richard Measelle, a Chicago-based world-wide managing
partner, says representatives from the eight Andersen offices
currently offering the training -- five more will start
offering seminars soon -- will meet this spring to recommend
appropriate actions on issues raised during the sessions.
"Once you start a program like this you'd better be prepared
to address the issues," says Mr. Measelle, who recently
appointed the first woman to a 22-partner executive committee
at Andersen.
   Still, the gender-awareness seminars remain voluntary, and
Andersen officials say there aren't any plans to link the
training to formal programs that reward efforts to retain and
promote women.
   But "gender training is better than doing nothing," says
Joseph Pleck, the Wellesley researcher, "because at least
people are getting the message."