Politics  Policy:
   Taxpayers Begin to Reap the Benefits
   Of cut in Withholding: About $1 a Day
   ----
   By Lucinda Harper
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
At the president's order, big employers are taking less
money out of their workers' paychecks for federal taxes.
   While the new withholding rate could pump $25 billion into
the economy over the next 12 months, the typical married
worker will be getting about a dollar a day -- not even
enough for bus fare in most cities.
   A married taxpayer with two children will get an extra $6
or $7 a week. A single taxpayer will get half as much.
   In his State of the Union message last month, Mr. Bush
suggested far greater sums, describing the added cash as
"money people can use to help pay for clothing, college, or
to get a new car."
   But his top advisers haven't been able to agree on whether
the change is actually intended as an economic stimulus or
just a good-government idea. Budget Director Richard Darman,
told reporters recently, "It's a withholding adjustment. It
is not described as an economic stimulus." Treasury Secretary
Nicholas Brady, however, calls it "an enormously important
part" of the president's plan for economic growth.
   Private economists say the change is likely to have a very
modest stimulative effect on the economy this year. "The
reduction in withholding add(s) directly to disposable
income, which in turns boosts personal consumption," says
Oxford Economics USA, a forecasting firm in Wynnewood, Pa.
But $25 billion a year amounts to less than 1% of total
consumer spending.
   The change in tax withholding already has taken effect in
many workplaces, but employers have until the pay period
after March 1 to comply. Exceptions will be granted for those
employers who at least make a "good-faith effort," the
Internal Revenue Service says.
   For most large companies it's a simple matter of changing
computer software to fit the new withholding tables. Smaller
companies often hire service agencies to handle their
payrolls, or they can make the changes manually. James
Medlock, project accountant for the Denver Water Department,
said the change was made on the paychecks of its 1,100
employees in the second week of February.
   Most Americans will realize the change at refund time.
Because this year's paychecks are larger, next April's tax
refunds will be smaller.
   "I think if (taxpayers) find next year that a $900 or so
refund isn't there, they are going to be shocked, really
shocked, and very, very disappointed," Thomas Bloch, chief
executive officer of HR Block, the nation's largest tax
preparer, told the Senate Finance Committee recently.
   But Loren Lukes, tax partner at BDOC Seidman here, says
excessive withholding amounts to "forced, no-interest
saving."
   Mr. Darman says some people might even call it "stealing"
because the government isn't paying interest. Lower- and
middle-income workers are more likely than rich people to
have too much withheld from their checks, he adds.
   One big question yet to be answered is how many Americans
deliberately ask their employers to take out too much tax
money as a way to save. The Internal Revenue Service says
it's too soon to tell how many workers are opting not to have
their withholdings reduced by submitting a new W-4 form to
their employers.
   David Pankonin, owner of a small farm-equipment dealership
in Louisville, Neb., said he thinks most of his 17 employees
will opt not to get the extra bit of money in their paychecks
every two weeks.