Studies of Women With Breast Implants
   Show Risk of Human Immune Diseases
   ----
   By Scott McMurray
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The most recent implants appear to "effectively retard the
bleed rates of larger, possibly inert, silicone molecules
while allowing relatively unhindered passage of smaller,
possibly biologically active, silicone," said Thomas
Callahan, an FDA official involved in the implant review.
   U.S. researchers studying several hundred women with
implants have already found as many cases of the rare immune
disease scleroderma, or about 75 cases, as would be expected
to be found in the entire population of more than 1.5 million
American women with implants, researchers said. Scleroderma
causes hardening of the skin and often disfigurement. The
studies of several hundred women in this country with
silicone-gel implants dovetailed with findings by Japanese
researchers who have studied the effect on several hundred
women who have had silicone injected into their breasts.
   "The problems seen with breast augmentation by injection
appear to be in many ways similar to problems seen with
gel-filled implants," said Stuart L. Nightingale, FDA
associate commissioner for health affairs.
   Because of these and other concerns, the agency is holding
its three-day panel hearing here to determine if implants
should be allowed on the market. "If we are comfortable that
we can give sound advice to women who already have these
implants, then -- and only then -- can we consider continued
use of these devices," said FDA Commissioner David Kessler.
Dr. Kessler and others stressed that definitive proof linking
implants to immune or other diseases isn't expected to come
out of the hearings.
   The FDA review panel, composed of academic and medical
experts, will make its recommendation on implants to Dr.
Kessler tomorrow evening. He has 60 days to make his decision
on whether implants should be allowed back on the market.
Last month, Dr. Kessler imposed a moratorium on their sale
until the panel could meet and review recently disclosed
documents and other data relating to the safety of
silicone-gel implants.
   Last November, an FDA panel recommended leaving implants
on the market to meet a "public health need" despite
insufficient scientific data demonstrating they are safe.
   In his opening remarks at yesterday's hearing, Dr. Kessler
emphasized that "the standard for implanted devices is not
`let the buyer beware.' The current standard carries the
affirmative requirement that products must be shown to be
safe."
   The FDA commissioner said that the moratorium in effect
since Jan. 6 has delayed an estimated 10,000 to 15,000 women
from receiving implants until the panel evaluates the latest
information.
   At this morning's hearing, the implant makers get a chance
to present their case for continued sale of the devices.
Officials from the manufacturers -- Dow Corning Inc., a
venture of Dow Chemical Co. and Corning Inc.; Mentor Corp.;
Inamed Corp.'s McGhan Medical Corp.; and Bioplasty Inc. --
have repeatedly asserted that there is no scientific evidence
linking silicone breast implants with autoimmune diseases.
The issue of autoimmune disease in women with implants has
emerged as the most serious potential safety issue clouding
the future of the devices.
   The opening-day hearing, at a suburban hotel ballroom, was
jammed with an audience of several hundred people. Groups of
women for and against the continued use of implants
congregated outside the ballroom, lining up to be interviewed
by the local media.