Canada's Doldrums Pull Down Results
   At Companies for 10th Straight Quarter
   ----
   By David Parkinson
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The two largest charges taken in the quarter were C$858.4
million at Canadian Pacific Ltd. and C$675 million at Nova
Corp. Several other companies also absorbed substantial
charges, most notably in the forest-products and energy
sectors.
   Full-year earnings were C$1.57 billion, down 70% from
1990's C$5.56 billion.
   "These are some of the poorest results that we've seen
from Canadian companies in a long, long time," said Ted
Carmichael, senior economist at Burns Fry Ltd.
"Unfortunately, there are no real surprises in these numbers,
as bad as they are."
   The latest survey results demonstrate the
on-again-off-again state of the Canadian economic recovery,
which started strongly in the second quarter but stumbled a
bit in the third quarter, when gross domestic product grew at
an annual rate of just 0.9%. The snail's-pace growth
continued with 0.1% monthly gains in both October and
November.
   Linda Nazareth, economist at Canadian Imperial Bank of
Commerce, said the economy has "leveled off," but added that
the survey "really points out that the recovery is going to
be slow."
   Analysts estimate a flat to slightly higher GDP in the
fourth quarter, and forecast real GDP growth of 2% to 3% in
1992. "That's not outstanding by any stretch of the
imagination for a recovery year," said Mr. Carmichael.
   Mr. Carmichael said the expected firming of commodities
prices in the 1991 second half never materialized,
contributing to the stalled recovery and poor earnings,
especially in the forestry and energy sectors. He said
commodities prices are now showing signs of turning around,
particularly in base metals, lumber and oil.
   The Canadian dollar's high level, relative to its U.S.
counterpart, also hurt resource-based companies, Mr.
Carmichael said, because their products are often priced in
U.S. dollars. The Canadian dollar peaked at 89.29 U.S. cents
at the start of November, but has since fallen off sharply to
its level Friday of 84.28 U.S. cents. The Canadian dollar is
expected to range between 83 cents and 87 cents for the rest
of 1992.
   Ms. Nazareth noted that weak consumer confidence has
become a major factor in delaying the Canadian recovery. The
Conference Board of Canada reported that its consumer
confidence index fell to 75 in the fourth quarter from 84.8
in the third quarter, despite continued falling inflation and
short-term interest rates.
   The yield on 91-day Government of Canada treasury bills
fell almost 100 basis points during the fourth quarter to end
1991 at about 7.4%. It dropped under 6.9% in January before
edging up to just over 7.2% this week. Forecasts call for the
rates to continue to edge lower through the first half of
1992. Canada's annual inflation rate, which is estimated at
about 5.7% for 1991, is expected to be about 2.5% for 1992,
though it will rise somewhat in the second half as the
recovery sets in.
   Forest-products companies continued their woeful
performances, as 12 companies had combined losses of C$261.9
million in the quarter, compared with a loss of C$374.4
million a year earlier. It was the sixth consecutive quarter
in which the sector posted a loss. Prices for lumber are
expected to recover as recently announced home-buying
incentives in the U.S. and Canada begin to take effect, but
the recovery of pulp and paper prices is expected to lag
behind.
   Noranda Inc.'s Noranda Forest Inc. unit had a loss of C$78
million, including C$24 million of provisions and charges,
compared with a loss of C$57 million a year earlier.
MacMillan Bloedel Ltd. had a loss of C$56.4 million in the
quarter, including C$20 million of write-downs, compared with
a year-earlier loss of C$14.2 million.
   The mining sector, also hurt by low prices, posting mostly
lower results from the 1990 fourth quarter. The six
base-metals companies surveyed had losses totaling C$127.8
million, compared with year-earlier earnings of C$64.1
million. The bulk of the losses came from Noranda Inc., which
had a loss of C$109 million in the quarter, including
provisions of C$83 million, compared with a loss of C$13
million a year earlier.
   Precious-metals concerns fared a little better, as eight
companies earned C$11.9 million in the quarter, compared with
losses of C$111 million a year earlier. The improvement,
however, almost entirely resulted from a year-earlier
US$119.6 million pretax write-down taken by LAC Minerals Ltd.
   Energy concerns continued to take a beating, as one-time
charges resulted in a loss of C$193.4 million among the seven
companies surveyed. A year earlier, the sector had a loss of
C$55.5 million. Companies cited low prices for oil, natural
gas and petrochemicals.
   Imperial Oil Ltd. took a big charge for the second
straight year, posting a C$124 million loss in the quarter
after a C$125 million provision for work-force reductions. A
year earlier, the company had a loss of C$211 million,
including C$589 million of write-downs, provisions and other
charges.
   The manufacturing sector showed some signs of turnaround
despite the sluggish economy. The survey's 29 manufacturing
companies posted total earnings of C$314.4 million in the
quarter, reversing a loss of C$357.5 million a year earlier
and up 16% from the third quarter. Included in last year's
loss, though, was a C$713 million pretax write-off by Dofasco
Inc. Excluding Dofasco, the group's earnings fell 14% from
last year.
   For the 20 industrial-products companies within the
manufacturing group, earnings in the quarter totaled C$163.3
million, compared with losses of C$457.6 million a year
earlier. Excluding Dofasco, though, the latest earnings were
off 38% from a year earlier. Earnings of nine consumer
products companies were up 51% from a year earlier, as Imasco
Ltd.'s net income rose to C$94.4 million from C$59 million a
year earlier.