International:
   World Wire
   ----
   Compiled by Linda D. Bohrer
Disparaging words by Japanese politicians have turned the
spotlight on alleged shortcomings of American workers, but
U.S. managers in Japan say they have some complaints of their
own about Japanese white-collar employees.
   "The universal complaint is that {white-collar employees}
can't make a decision and won't take initiative," said Tom
Nevins, president of TMT Inc., a labor and personnel
consultant for multinational companies. "It is often said
that, to handle the same responsibility level, a Japanese
worker has to be five to 10 years older."
   U.S. managers in Tokyo give their Japanese staff high
marks for hard work and literacy but add that the typical
"salaryman" finds it tough to cope with the unexpected or
unusual. The Japanese, Mr. Nevins said, seem to work best
within a disciplined corporate structure.
   Moreover, rivalry and fear of losing face make people
reluctant to ask questions, so on-the-job communication is
worse than in many U.S. offices, said an American executive.
                                                                                                       

   CALL FOR AUSTERITY IN ITALY
                                                                                                       

   The governor of Italy's central bank called for economic
austerity so that the country will fully reap the benefits of
Europe's economic and monetary union. Carlo A. Ciampi urged
the government to impose rigorous budget and spending
policies, and called for cooperation between unions and
employers on wage controls to limit inflation and boost the
competitive edge of Italian industry. Italy's cost of living
is running at 6.1% annually, about twice the European
average, while the government budget deficit is about 150
trillion lire ($121.47 billion), or about 10% of the gross
domestic product.
                                                                                                       

   TOURISTS ATTACKED IN KENYA
                                                                                                       

   Armed bandits have terrorized and robbed tourists, and in
one case raped a German woman, in a series of attacks in a
popular game reserve. The attacks in the vast Masai Mara
reserve in Kenya's southwest have worried foreign diplomats.
German officials have protested to the Kenyan government
about inadequate security in the reserve, which is owned and
maintained by the local Narok County Council and isn't part
of the Kenya Wildlife Service. The U.S. Embassy also has
expressed its concern to Kenya's government and has urged the
State Department to issue an advisory warning to American
tourists.
                                                                                                       

   FOREIGNERS TRADE CHINESE STOCK
                                                                                                       

   For the first time since its communist revolution of 1949,
China welcomed foreigners back to its Shanghai stock market
Friday and the lone stock traded by foreigners zoomed up more
than 20%. Trading is done through Chinese and Hong Kong
brokerage houses, which field buy and sell orders and relay
them to traders on the floor. Some 15 companies are listed on
China's two exchanges, but only Shanghai Vacuum has issued
stock to foreigners thus far. Shares of Southern Glass, a
company listed on the Shenzhen exchange, will be available to
foreigners by the end of the month.
                                                                                                       

   AUSTRIA AWAITS EC TALKS
                                                                                                       

   Austrian Chancellor Franz Vranitzky said negotiations for
his country's entry into the European Community were unlikely
to start before next year. Mr. Vranitzky said Austria was
ready to join the EC at any time, but that the Community
wanted to wait until the Jan. 1, 1993, deadline for
implementing its single-market plans before discussing
enlargement.
                                                                                                       

   BLAME DENIED IN CHOLERA CASE
                                                                                                       

   An Argentine airline suspended all flights to Peru Friday
after more than 60 passengers showed symptoms of cholera
following a flight from Lima to Los Angeles. One elderly man
died. But yesterday, Peru suspended the airline's license to
fly to and operate in Lima, saying the carrier made
unsubstantiated claims that bacteria-tainted food was taken
aboard there. The catering company pointed out that other
flights it serviced weren't affected. The Aerolineas
Argentinas flight Feb. 14 originated in Buenos Aires and took
on passengers and food in Peru, which has been hard hit by
the year-old Latin American cholera epidemic.
                                                                                                       

   ILLITERACY DOGS INDUSTRIAL WORLD
                                                                                                       

   A study by the Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development paints a picture of widespread functional
illiteracy that, according to the 24-nation think tank, is
handicapping economic performance in the industrial world.
   "Estimates vary widely according to definitions, but it is
conceivable that about one-third of workers could do their
jobs better if they were able to use basic reading and
writing skills better," the report concludes.
   The OECD sees the problem not as one of falling
educational standards but of rising literacy requirements at
work. "New jobs requiring new mixes of skills are being
created while unskilled industrial jobs are declining," the
report says.
   The OECD said more and more employers now recognize that
deficient basic skills and functional illiteracy cost them
money. One researcher cited by the OECD said U.S. companies
lose $40 billion a year because of illiteracy.
                                                                                                       

   POSTSCRIPTS . . .
                                                                                                       

   World trade in spices now amounts to about 400,000 tons a
year, worth $1.5 billion, according to a market study. . . .
Libya and Uganda signed an agreement that includes economic
and technical cooperation in the fields of oil, agriculture,
joint investments and trade exchanges.