Sears Is Offering
   Severance Plans
   To Certain Staff
   ----
   By Francine Schwadel
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Those affected are veterans in big-ticket departments such
as appliances, furniture, hardware and automotive products.
Although Sears intends to replace many of them with
lower-paid clerks, some departing salespeople predicted that
turnover will rise and service will suffer.
   "I suppose you have to cut expenses somewhere . . . {but}
getting rid of all your experienced people doesn't make
sense," contended Jim Piason, an appliance salesman who will
leave the Mays Landing, N.J., store on Saturday. "I've had
people say, `The only reason I'm buying a washer is because
of you.'"
   The 45-year-old Mr. Piason, who has worked for Sears for
21 years, said he opted to leave rather than see his annual
wages fall to around $25,000 from $39,000 last year. He will
receive 23 weeks of severance pay, plus unemployment
compensation.
   The Sears spokesman acknowledged that the buy-out "will
most likely result in job reductions" on the sales floor. But
he maintained that service won't slip because Sears operates
training programs for both current and new clerks.
   The spokesman added that the changes in big-ticket
compensation, announced earlier this month, were necessary to
bring Sears wages in line with those paid by competitors. By
offering severance packages to those whose wages would fall
10% or more, the spokesman said, "you presumably get rid of a
lot of people who are being overpaid."
   The new system eliminates base pay for many big-ticket
salespeople and lowers commissions for others.
   The spokesman declined to predict how much Sears would
save as a result of the move. He also declined to say how
much Sears would spend on the severance program, which
provides a maximum of 26 weeks of pay per employee.
   The buy-out plan is part of a broad cost-cutting program
begun 18 months ago, when Sears Chairman Edward A. Brennan
vowed to revive sales and profit. Since then, he has
eliminated 40,500 jobs and warned that more cuts will follow.
A reorganization in 1988 trimmed 2,600 jobs.
   Earnings at Sears's merchandise group rebounded somewhat
last year, rising 89% to $486.3 million from the year-earlier
$257.4 million, which included a big restructuring charge.
But the unit's profit still fell short of its 1984 peak of
$905 million. Sales fell about 2% to $31.43 billion.