Business and Race
   ----
   By Leon E. Wynter
THE Postal Service is targeting ethnic minorities,
starting with Hispanics, to maintain and increase market
share.
   The effort began last July with a marketing program aimed
at Mexican-Americans in Southern California. The campaign
featured the post office's Express Mail and international
money order services in Spanish print, radio and television
ads. The impact appears to be greatest among the least
assimilated Hispanics, who are the heaviest users of Spanish
language media, a Postal Service spokesman says.
   The post office then developed print displays and
promotions for local offices geared to Hispanics, as well as
stamps commemorating Hispanic culture.
   The spokesman says it's too early to measure overall
results, but revenue for Express Mail shipments from the U.S.
to Mexico doubled last year.
   The Postal Service also is running Express Mail ads in the
Northeast aimed at ethnic Chinese, and says it plans other
regional campaigns targeting minority groups.
   The post office's national ads, meanwhile, have been
recast to include more minority groups. A current TV spot
features a Chinese-American letter carrier nicknamed "Iron
Legs" mounting the hills of San Francisco.
                                                                                                       

   Minority CEOs: Alive
   And Well at Hospitals
                                                                                                       

   MINORITY chief executives, almost invisible in
corporations, are cutting their teeth turning around
nonprofit hospitals.
   Miguel Fuentes, 41 years old, took over Bronx-Lebanon
Hospital Center in the Bronx, N.Y., in 1987. The old facility
couldn't compete for top doctors or paying patients.
   Aided by a state bond program, the hospital recently
completed a $181 million construction program, including a
17-story, 435-bed tower. It is now the largest private
employer in the South Bronx, with a neonatal care center and
skilled nursing facilities for AIDS and geriatric patients.
   The hospital is also building 16 private homes and 84
condominium units in its neighborhood. "For me to stay in
business, I need people to live here," says Mr. Fuentes,
previously a vice president at the hospital.
   Bronx-Lebanon had a surplus of $6 million on outpatient
services last year, he says, and Medicare admissions have
climbed 25% in his tenure.
   Kevin Lofton, 37, took over Howard University Hospital in
Washington, D.C., in 1990. The hospital was losing black
middle-class customers to the suburbs and running higher
deficits serving underinsured patients. Mr. Lofton has cut
the annual deficit in half by trimming costs. He plans to
place clinic offices in black suburban areas to recapture
well-insured patients.
   "I'm going to compete with anyone who is in my area," says
Mr. Lofton, former chief operating officer at University
Medical Center, Jacksonville, Fla.
   In December, once-ailing North General Hospital in New
York's Harlem section moved into a $65 million facility ahead
of schedule and $13 million under budget. President Eugene
McCabe, 54, an ex-consultant, steered 40% of construction
contracts to minority firms.
   With the saving, he plans joint ventures to build a
medical office building and cooperative housing on abandoned
sites nearby.
                                                                                                       

   Marketers Play Up
   Black History Month
                                                                                                       

   BLACK History Month, observed each February, is growing in
importance as a marketing tool.
   "I believe that Martin Luther King Jr. {Day} and Black
History Month are recession-proof," says Byron Lewis,
president of Uniworld Group, an advertising and
public-relations firm in New York. "For companies that are in
it for the long haul, this is part of their annual planning."
   Retired Supreme Court Justice Thurgood Marshall is the
star this year of several campaigns. PepsiCo is distributing
25,000 copies of the television movie "Separate But Equal,"
about the landmark 1954 desegregation case in which the
former justice argued. Philip Morris is sponsoring a six-part
radio series on the jurist's accomplishments, to run on 400
radio stations nationwide.
   For the second year in a row, Mr. Lewis's firm is
producing and syndicating a black year-in-review TV program,
to run in most big U.S. markets. The program is sponsored by
Burger King, Eastman Kodak, Procter  Gamble and other
Uniworld clients.
   Some black marketers caution that a one-shot approach to
courting black consumers may have little impact. "We tie our
plans to what companies are most interested in -- selling
their products all year long. That's why I don't get so
excited about Black History Month anymore," says Caroline
Jones of Caroline Jones Advertising, New York.
                                                                                                       

   Entrepreneurs Receive
   Help Envisioning Success
                                                                                                       

   TWO New York companies are peddling videos geared to
minorities on starting successful businesses. In the Black
Productions and Earl G. Graves Ltd., publisher of Black
Enterprise magazine, have sold a total of about 5,000 videos
since the fall of 1990, including 900 last holiday season.
Buyers "tend to be male, ages 25 to 34, college-educated and
working for a corporation," a Black Enterprise spokesman
says.
   The videos aim to motivate and raise important issues for
aspiring entrepreneurs. "I'm not writing an encyclopedia,"
says Rafee Kamaal, head of In the Black, whose video is
culled from a monthly show, "Keys to Success," on cable
station WWOR. "You have to go out and do the research. Part
of being an entrepreneur is getting off your butt."