Marketing  Media:
   Cable-Firm Stake
   Might Be Sought
   By Capital Cities
   ----
   By Johnnie L. Roberts
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Industry executives said Capital Cities/ABC, which owns
the ABC network, already has looked at, but passed on, a
chance to invest in a major cable company -- Continental
Cablevision Inc. Closely held Continental, the third-largest
operator of local cable systems, instead is expected to
complete a deal for a $400 million cash infusion from
Corporate Partners, a $1.6 billion investment fund affiliated
with   Lazard Freres  Co., according to cable brokers and
Wall Street bankers.
   Capital Cities/ABC, Lazard and Boston-based Continental
Cablevision declined to comment. But Capital Cities/ABC has
been a major proponent of abolishing the federal
"cross-ownership" rules that prohibit a network from owning
cable systems. The media company already owns major stakes in
cable channels ESPN (80%), Lifetime (one-third) and Arts 
Entertainment (one-third), and it has made no secret of its
desire to purchase cable systems at the right price.
   The FCC's cross-ownership prohibition forced the former
Capital Cities Communications to sell its cable systems in
1985 as a condition of acquiring the former American
Broadcasting Cos. (The sale, largely to Washington Post Co.,
was valued at $375 million -- after which the price tag of
cable systems soared and cable grabbed a sizable share of the
networks' audience.) Capital Cities/ABC passed on the
Continental investment because of the current federal rules.
   But even cable operators have embraced the FCC's renewed
effort to let networks buy local systems. They see the
broadcasters as a source of investment capital and a boost to
cable-system values. The cable companies have simultaneously
worked against another FCC proposal that would let phone
companies into the cable business, since the cable concerns
view phone companies as potential competitors.
   Closely held Continental intends to pare its debt of more
than $3 billion with the $400 million that it expects to
raise from the Lazard-affiliated investment fund. Other cable
companies, laden with piles of debt after a decade-long
buying spree, are seeking to restructure their balance
sheets.
   Adelphia Communications Corp., Coudersport, Pa., is
preparing to issue $300 million of subordinated debt and as
much as $150 million of equity. Adelphia is planning to raise
the money through a rights offering to existing shareholders
or in a public offering. "A lot of cable companies are
looking for equity infusions for expansion and/or to clean up
their balance sheets," said Timothy Rigas, Adelphia's chief
financial officer.
   Century Communications Corp., New Canaan, Conn., has
registered to sell five million common shares to the public.
And Philadelphia-based Comcast Corp. recently raised $103.5
million through a offering of six million shares and
earmarked the proceeds to reduce debt related to the
acquisition of a cellular phone system.