Technology:
   HP Is Building
   Gadget to Make
   TVs Interactive
   ----
   By G. Pascal Zachary
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
HP said it was selected by TV Answer to manufacture and
market a TV control box and a remote controller that
resembles a video-game joystick. The control box, which can
send and receive information by radio, is a personal computer
in disguise, with an old 8088 microprocessor from Intel Corp.
and four megabits of dynamic-random access memory, about
twice the amount of memory standard for a personal computer.
   HP, which is announcing the product with TV Answer in New
York today, said it expects the initial list price of the
hardware to be about $700, and TV Answer is expected to
charge customers of the service either a monthly or a
transaction fee, or both.
   The move into television is a striking shift for HP, which
is best known for its calculators and computer printers, and
reflects a revival of interest among U.S. companies in
consumer electronics. This sprawling industry was once
considered irretrievably lost to such Japanese behemoths as
Sony Corp., but recently a growing number of U.S. concerns,
including Eastman Kodak Co. and Apple Computer Inc., have
said they plan to pursue consumer electronics aggressively.
HP, while never straying far from its roots in electronic
instruments, last year released a palm-sized electronic
spreadsheet that the company vows is the first in a string of
"information appliances."
   Buoyed by strength in software and computers, "U.S.
companies are becoming inspired to return to consumer
electronics, and they come with a set of strengths they
didn't have 20 years ago, when we lost this business," said
Robert Frankenberg, chief of HP's personal information
products group, which is leading the company's foray into TV
hardware.
   Consumer electronics, however, remains a high-stakes game,
where manufacturing prowess is key. HP, which has defeated
repeated attempts by Japanese companies and others to wrest
away its overwhelming lead in ink-jet and laser computer
printers, is one of America's top manufacturers. It said that
by next year it will have the capacity to produce 1.5 million
of its still-unnamed TV device. HP plans to manufacture the
units in Roseville, Calif., and at an undetermined foreign
site.
   When combined with marketing costs, HP "is making a
half-billion dollar committment to interactive TV," said Gary
Arlen, a consultant in Bethesda, Md., who was briefed on the
company's plans.
   To win HP's help, TV Answer said that it's forgoing all
royalties on its technology and that it has given HP
exclusive U.S. rights to manufacturing, marketing and
distributing of the product.
   It isn't clear, meanwhile, whether consumers will find
interactive TV compelling. Critics complain that the initial
price for the equipment may be too high, and that programmers
are likely to resist tailoring their broadcasts to take
advantage of the technology.
   "There's a history of less than successful efforts to make
interactive television work," said Mitchell Shapiro, an
analyst at Paul Kagan Associates, a market researcher in
Carmel, Calif.
   Indeed, skeptics point to plenty of failures. Just last
year, Commodore International Ltd. introduced a novel product
called CDTV, which skillfully blended features of the TV,
compact disk player and PC. It hasn't been a hit with
shoppers. And interactive broadcasting, which was once called
two-way TV, has its own dismal past. One of the most
spectacular failures occurred in the early 1980s in Columbus,
Ohio, and other cities, where a joint venture between
American Express Co. and Warner Communications launched an
ambitious test of interactivity.
   Fernando Morales, TV Answer's founder and chief executive
officer, believes interactive TV should fare better today,
partly because relying on radio waves rather than cable is
more efficient. "This will bring you a lot of new functions
for the dollar," he said.
   Mr. Morales is bullish about advertisers, who he says will
embrace the new medium, because it will make it easier for
customers to make a purchase after watching an ad. Instead of
dialing an 800 telephone number, a potential customer could
simply press the remote controller and place the order.
   But Mr. Arlen, the consultant, counters that viewers could
grow so interested in participating in game shows or dramas
that they will be "distracted from viewing the commercials.
That's something broadcasters worry about."
   TV Answer also faces competition from other approaches to
interactivity, such as one currently being tested by
Interactive Network Inc. that is less expensive and is aimed
specifically at drawing viewers into programming. "It's a way
to play games off TV that isn't dependent on people using
their TVs for something other than entertainment," said
Thomas Rogers, president of NBC Cable and head of business
development for General Electric Co.'s National Broadcasting
Co. unit, which is an investor in Interactive Network,
Mountain View, Calif.
   Even if TV Answer flops as an entertainment form, it could
emerge as a low-cost means of receiving and sending data from
all kinds of portable devices in the home. HP's Mr.
Frankenberg says the TV add-on "can be a hub" for a family of
gadgets that send messages, retrieve and store data, and
manage other appliances.
   "This is the real future of the computer business," he
said.