International:
   EC Attacks U.S.
   For Threatening
   Trade Sanctions
   ----
   By Julie Wolf
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
A commission spokesman called the U.S. action
"regrettable." He said Washington was complaining about one
clause in EC legislation that would open up the EC market in
public procurement as of January 1993, to the benefit of
foreign as well as EC companies. "The disputed clause . . .
should be seen in the context of the perversive and overtly
discriminatory Buy American Act, and a host of other U.S.
discriminatory procurement rules," he said.
   The EC has offered to ban all discrimination in public
procurement, but negotiations under the General Agreement on
Tariffs and Trade on a public procurement code haven't been
completed "because the U.S. has not been prepared to
guarantee comparable access for EC suppliers to U.S.
markets," the spokesman said.
   He called Friday's threat by U.S. Trade Representative
Carla Hills to retaliate if the EC goes ahead with the
legislation an "attempt by the U.S. to gain negotiating
leverage over the Community," and added that "progress in
this field will come from the removal of obstacles by both
sides, not from adding to the existing array of American
discriminatory measures."
   The legislation is aimed at extending the EC single market
to four excluded sectors of public procurement:
telecommunications, energy, transport and water. Under the
rule, EC governments and local administrations would no
longer be able to discriminate in favor of national
suppliers. But the legislation would give preference to
European bids that were as much as 3% higher in price than
foreign bids. In addition, public authorities could reject
bids if more than 50% of their value came from outside the
EC.
   The U.S. says these provisions discriminate against U.S.
suppliers. Mrs. Hills said the U.S. would retaliate against
the EC under the 1988 trade act aimed at getting other
countries to pry open their markets. But EC officials said
U.S. legislation is much more discriminatory, giving
preference to U.S. bids that are 6% more expensive and
requiring "local content" of as much as 100%.