Azerbaijan City, Scarred by Pollution
   And Rusting Factories, Seeks Rebirth
   ----
   By Hugh Pope
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
"Our production is down 50%, and we haven't hit the bottom
yet," says Fakhraddin Gamidov, general director of Azerbaijan
Pipe  Tube Works, a steel-rolling plant that employs 10,000
people and once supplied more than a third of all piping used
in the Soviet oil industry.
   But, Mr. Gamidov says, there is still optimism. Through
the acrid smog of chlorine and sulphur gases that blanket
Sumgait most days, he and other administrators see a ray of
hope that they will overcome the collapse of the Soviet
Union.
   "It seemed much easier to have Moscow as the center," says
Lazer Avlastimov, chief engineer at Khimprom, Sumgait's
biggest and arguably most poisonous chemical plant. "But they
also pumped us dry of all funds. We were totally dependent.
   "Now I am free. I can sell my goods anywhere. . . . I keep
my profit and invest my money in what I want. The shock has
passed. Everyone realizes the situation. The population
realizes they have to work in the new world. Those who didn't
are out already."
   Some Moscow-based diplomats have said that Azerbaijan
might well succeed where less well-endowed former Soviet
republics fail. The Caucasus state of seven million people is
self-sufficient in food and could become a reasonably big oil
exporter, if a Caspian Sea development bid led by Amoco Corp.
of the U.S. overcomes local delays and a government
reorganization of the local oil industry.
   And the old Soviet system hasn't yet stopped dead. Trains
throughout the Caucasus still run on time. Ornamental trees
are still kept neatly clipped along Sumgait's Caspian Sea
esplanade. And away from the factories, the wide-spaced grid
of residential housing does some credit to the Communist
volunteers who built the city from nothing in the 1950s.
   But as everything in the Soviet Union breaks into smaller
units, much also depends on how people keep going at the
local level in places such as Sumgait, Azerbaijan's second
industrial city, 19 miles from the capital, Baku. Here, city
and factory managers have become increasingly autonomous in
their efforts to feed the city's 250,000 citizens and to deal
with 30% unemployment, says Sumgait Prefect Eldar Ismailov.
   The city has bartered for butter from France. A trainload
of aluminum sent to Germany should bring back rice and sugar,
Mr. Ismailov says. Elsewhere, a Turkish businessman says he
buys polyester waste from Sumgait, transports it by train
across Armenia and sends back food.
   "We're also dealing with Iran," Mr. Ismailov says. "We
send trucks full of superphosphates down to the border. The
trucks then load up with potatoes, kilo for kilo."
   The figures can't be independently confirmed, but Mr.
Ismailov says foreign trade between Sumgait and the outside
world rose to more than $250 million in 1991 from $5 million
in 1990, despite a slump in Azerbaijani production estimated
at 15% last year.
   "The new economic system has started," says Mr. Gamidov of
the steel-rolling mill. "But it will take five years to get
going again."
   Mr. Gamidov's desk is littered with prospectuses from
Turkey, with which he says half his business is now done.
There's also a contract with a Russian factory to supply
pipes in return for iron, part of a slowly growing system of
barter deals that heralds the hesitant birth of a new
economic system in the Commonwealth of Independent States.
   The breakdown in old Soviet economic ties and the rise of
new trade restrictions imposed by the now-independent
republics are the biggest problem, says Mr. Avlastimov of the
Khimprom chemical plant. The creaking factory on the salty
plain of the Caspian Sea should be vital as the only source
in the whole commonwealth of sulphanol, a key ingredient for
detergents. But supplies of raw materials have been cut;
obtaining spare parts for machinery is a nightmare; and
overall production has slumped, he says.
   Following the Azerbaijani government's decree freeing
factory prices and wages, Mr. Avlastimov says, he doubled
everybody's wages to an average 1,000 rubles ($8) a month.
From now on, pay will be based on merit, he says. Local
businessmen estimate that 1,000 rubles is the minumum needed
to survive, but people in Sumgait and elsewhere in Azerbaijan
haven't taken to the streets to protest massive price rises.
   Mr. Ismailov, however, says his government may only have a
short reprieve while ordinary people live off savings,
non-renewable reserves and the diminished number of handouts
that factories were once able to secure from farms or in
complex barter arrangements.
   Re-education will also require a huge effort. Even at
Baku's state economic institute, which will be the principal
source of the country's next generation of economists and
businessmen, students are still being taught from old Marxist
textbooks. "Our teachers just apologize," says Murtouz
Sheikhnamazov, a 20-year-old student. "They have no other
books."
   The population in this Muslim country generally supports
what its leaders say will be the secular, free-market
development route taken by nearby Turkey. There are few local
fears of Shiite Muslim fundamentalism spreading from
neighboring Iran. Conversations, however, are dominated by
the possibility that full-scale war may break out over the
disputed Armenian-populated Azerbaijani enclave of
Nagorno-Karabakh.