Mexico's Red-Hot Stocks Can Still Excite,
   But Buying Blind Might Burn Investors
   ----
   By Michael R. Sesit
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
"There are still attractive situations in Mexico, but it
is a time for caution," warns Douglas A. Campbell, president
of D.A. Campbell Co., a Santa Monica, Calif., broker
specializing in Latin American stocks. He adds: "You could
buy blind in the old days; you certainly can't buy blind
now."
   He warns investors to be wary of stocks selling at prices
that are inordinately high compared with earnings and of "new
deals where earnings haven't materialized yet." One such
example, Mr. Campbell says, is Grupo Televisa S.A., a
television and production company that owns the world's
largest Hispanic network.
   Not in this category, he says, is Telefonos de Mexico
S.A., the national telephone company that is Mexico's largest
company and is selling at about 11 times 1992 projected
earnings. "The stock is still reasonable compared with other
international telephone companies," says Mr. Campbell, who
advises buying Telmex shares on price declines.
   He also recommends companies that supply
telecommunications equipment and didn't participate in last
year's bull run: Grupo Condumex S.A., Teleindustria Ericcson
S.A., and Alcatel Indetel S.A. The last two are are
controlled by their respective Swedish and French parent
companies.
   Jorge Mariscal, manager of Latin American equity research
at Goldman, Sachs  Co., sees the Bolsa appreciating 35% to
45% in dollar terms this year. That's because he foresees
20%-25% increases in inflation-adjusted corporate earnings, a
drop in inflation to about 12% from 19%, and interest rates
falling three to four percentage points. "In general, the
market psychology should continue to improve," he says.
   Indeed, Luis Maizel, president of LM Capital Management
Inc. in San Diego, says Mexico "is one of the few economies
in the world growing steadily, has a stable government and if
the FTA {Free Trade Agreement} passes, will grow further." He
forecasts 1992 Mexican growth at 4%.
   Furthermore, Mr. Mariscal argues that with Mexican stocks
trading at an average price of 15 times the past year's
per-share earnings, compared with 23 for Standard  Poor's
500-stock index, "the Mexican market is still relatively
inexpensive." Using 1992 estimated earnings, the Bolsa is
currently trading at a P/E of 11, he says.
   Because solid economic growth is expected, Manuel Gonzalez
Sordo, manager of the Emerging Mexico Fund in Mexico City,
likes Cementos Mexicanos S.A. (Cemex) and Tolmex S.A. -- two
cement companies -- and Transportacion Maritima Mexicana
S.A., a shipping company that he says controls roughly 70% of
shipping by sea going in and out of Mexico.
   Other favorites include Grupo Herdez S.A., a producer of
canned foods with a strong distribution network, and Grupo
Carso S.A., a "conglomerate that is very well diversified in
telecommunications {it owns a little over 5% of Telmex}, auto
parts, retailing, food and beverages, tobacco and
construction." It is also licensed to sell Philip Morris Co.
cigarettes in Mexico, where the Marlboro brand is a status
symbol. One negative for Carso is that it is also in mining,
an industry that the stock market has treated shabbily.
   Mr. Maizel of LM Capital is big on Cemex and glassmaker
Vitro S.A. "I like the big industrial companies that will
take advantage of the U.S. and Canadian market," says he.
"These companies have become very efficient. They have low
labor costs and have acquired the mentality of exporters --
high volume, low margins, good quality." If the Free Trade
Agreement being negotiated between the U.S. and Mexico takes
effect, they will be even more competitive.
   He also recommends paper company Kimberly-Clark de Mexico
S.A. "They have the quality standards to meet U.S. needs and
a lower cost base" than American competitors, Mr. Maizel
says.
   He adds that two big national retailers worth looking at
are Cifra S.A. and Grupo Gigante S.A.. Cifra is also in
restaurants and owns an up-scale garment chain. Despite
widescale poverty, Mexico's large population and growing
economy still offer a large "potential consumer market," he
says.
   Other favorites include Grupo Financiero Banamex Accival
S.A. (Banacci S.A.), a universal bank formed by the merger of
a major broker with a newly privatized big commercial bank,
and Grupo Financiero Obsa S.A., a top broker.
   Money managers at Morgan Stanley  Co. agree with Messrs.
Mariscal and Maizel's view of the Mexican economy. But they
are cautious on the stock market, largely because of the long
run-up.
   "At current prices, it's tough to make a valuation case
for Mexican stocks, but you can make a growth case, based on
the economy's strong potential," says Madhav Dhar, a
portfolio manager and head of the emerging markets group for
Morgan Stanley Asset Management.
   Robert Meyer, a Morgan Stanley portfolio manager who
specializes in Latin American stocks, likes Banacci, Cemex
and Tolmex. "Economic growth in Mexico is going to be in
roads, airports and housing. All that requires cement," he
says.
   Another favorite is Grupo Situr S.A., a company that
develops tourist areas. Pointing out that Mexicans will
vacation more as incomes rise, that U.S. interest in Mexican
vacations is still rising and that the Mexican government
actively promotes tourism to gain hard currency, Mr. Meyer
sees Situr's income growing 35% annually in the next two to
three years.
   Some money managers warn that a big correction in the U.S.
stock market could trigger an equally big one in Mexico.
That's because of the geographic proximity of the countries,
the strong economic ties between them and the large amount of
U.S. investment in Mexico.
   Two other risks are passage of the Free Trade Agreement
being stalled in an election year -- an event that some
Mexican brokers predict could send the market skidding 30% --
and Mexico's economic program going awry. This latter
development could send foreign capital fleeing back home,
which also would send the market tumbling.
   "Everything {in Mexico} is trading on expectations," warns
Mr. Maizel of LM Capital. "It's a very small market with
enormous amounts of money chasing it. It's like a big room
with a very small door. If everybody tries to get through the
small door at the same time, there could be problems: The
market could come down very fast."
   ---
                   Buying Mexican Stocks
                                                                                                       

   -- Directly: Many Mexican companies issue three types of
stock: shares that can be owned only by Mexican nationals --
to keep the company in local hands, shares that can be owned
by both Mexican and foreign investors, and shares that carry
limited or no voting rights.
                                                                                                       

   -- American Depository Receipts: Can be bought through one
of several Mexican brokers in the U.S. or a major
international securities firm. ADRs represent a set number of
underlying shares, reflect price movements on the Bolsa and
are priced in dollars. The stock of 22 Mexican companies
trade in ADR form, 14 of them publicly on the New York Stock
exchange, American Stock Exchange or Nasdaq.
                                                                                                       

   -- Closed-end mutual funds: Mexico Fund Inc., Emerging
Mexico Fund  Inc. and Mexico Equity  Income Fund Inc. invest
solely in Mexican shares. The funds' shares trade on the Big
Board, currently at prices below the aggregate per-share
value of their investment portfolios.
                                                                                                       

   -- Other: Several U.S. securities firms and banks are
designing indexes of Mexican shares reflecting a large
portion of the Mexican stock market's capitalization. They
plan to sell warrants on these indexes.