Legal Theorists Say
   Stock Manipulation
   Is Too Vague a Term
   ---
   Law Review Article Proposes
   Abolishing the Concept
   As Basis for Valid Charges
   ----
   By Junda Woo
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Tackling various commentators' definitions, Messrs.
Fischel and Ross reject the term "inducing people to trade"
as too broad because it could cover even a mutually
beneficial trade. Another popular definition, "forcing a
security's price to an artificial level," might punish a
trader who genuinely -- though mistakenly -- believes a
stock's value is higher or lower than its price. The authors
conclude that only dishonest intent to move stock prices can
be called manipulative.
   They further argue that single individuals are almost
powerless to move stock prices, based on the writings of
Myron S. Scholes, a Stanford University professor who is part
of Salomon Brothers Inc.'s derivatives trading department.
Mr. Scholes's research shows that trading often has no effect
on securities prices.
   Messrs. Fischel and Ross concede that manipulation is
possible if a trader makes false statements that would
influence a stock's price, but they point out that false
statements already are unlawful under fraud statutes. If
several people collude to move prices, that's also fraud,
they note. Manipulation alone, the authors say, is so
unlikely to occur and so hard to detect that it should be
declared lawful.
   Several securities law specialists balked at that idea,
although they agreed manipulation is ill-defined. Recent
high-profile manipulation convictions have either been
overturned, such as one against GAF Corp., or didn't actually
involve a legal charge of manipulation. "You're talking about
maybe one out of every 40 securities convictions are
manipulation cases," said Arthur Mathews, a partner at the
Washington, D.C., law firm of Wilmer, Cutler  Pickering.
Manipulation isn't "unheard of, but it's very hard" to prove,
he said.
   Critics of the authors' proposal pointed out that
manipulation convictions not only are plausible but do take
place every couple of years. "It's difficult for a person to
(manipulate stock prices), but it's not if they have a lot of
resources behind them, and that's what has been happening,"
said Steve Thel, a Fordham University associate law
professor. The Securities and Exchange Commission should
define specific manipulative acts, Mr. Thel said.
   Norman S. Poser, a professor at Brooklyn Law School, said
one example of pure manipulation occurs when a trader breaks
up a 500-share purchase into 100-share blocks to make it seem
as if several people are jumping into the market. When other
people begin buying the stock and the market rises, the
trader sells at a profit. "It's basically deceptive," Mr.
Poser said. "There's no social value in it, and it should be
prohibited."
                                                                                                       

   Arbitration for Patients
                                                                                                       

   Arbitrators should be brought in when the family and
doctors of an incapacitated patient can't agree on what
course of treatment the patient would want, a recent law
review article suggests.
   Writing in the February issue of the UCLA Law Review, UCLA
law student Michele Yuen observes that the legal system can
be cumbersome and inhumanely slow when a life is at stake.
She cites five cases in which patients died while their fates
were being litigated.
   Some hospitals use their own ethics committees to settle
such cases, but a hospital's biases could creep into its
committee's decisions, Ms. Yuen says. Furthermore, the
committee's decision wouldn't be legally binding and wouldn't
shield a physician from liability.
   But arbitration is legally binding, as well as private and
fast, she says. As with other types of arbitration, though,
if both sides don't agree to the procedure, their only option
is the courtroom.
   A spokeswoman for the American Arbitration Association in
New York said arbitration most likely has been used in some
cases involving incapacitated patients. But she said it's
hard to tell how prevalent the method is because the
proceedings are private.
   However, the spokeswoman added that families and doctors
ought to have the option first to try mediation, even though
it's not legally binding. "More often than not, it's an
emotional issue, and what they're looking for is a
third-party neutral," she said. "Mediation is far less
time-consuming and expensive" than either arbitration or
litigation, she added.
                                                                                                       

   Search and Seizure
                                                                                                       

   Black men feel more threatened than white men when
questioned by police, and the Supreme Court should recognize
that difference in its search-and-seizure rulings, a law
professor contends in the Valparaiso University Law Review.
   In the review's Fall 1991 issue, Tracey Maclin, a Boston
University law professor, chides the court for its standard
of how an "average, reasonable person" acts during police
encounters. Black men carry a deep-seated and entirely
reasonable mistrust of police officers, Mr. Maclin argues,
citing an array of anecdotes showing police racism.
   He says that many searches and seizures sanctioned by the
Supreme Court are unreasonable for black men. Mr. Maclin
calls for a race-based standard of reasonableness, in much
the same way that a "reasonable woman" standard has begun to
be applied for sexual harassment cases.
   Mr. Maclin does see one potential flaw in the proposal: It
requires police to guess a person's feelings. He suggests
that sensitivity training for officers could solve the
problem. One critic, however, was dubious. "It sounds very
enticing, but it's next to impossible to enforce," said
Fletcher N. Baldwin Jr., a University of Florida
constitutional law professor.