Who's News:
   TRW Manager
   Named by Bush
   To Head NASA
   ----
   By Laurie McGinley
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
White House officials said yesterday that Mr. Quayle was
involved in Mr. Goldin's selection. Privately, they said the
vice president hopes Mr. Goldin will bolster administration
efforts to change NASA.
   But Mr. Quayle's involvement may exacerbate concerns among
some lawmakers that the White House is meddling in NASA's
affairs. Yesterday, John Logsdon, director of the Space
Policy Institute at George Washington University, said one of
Mr. Goldin's first challenges will be to establish himself
"as his own man."
   "People already are asking, `Is he a White House lackey?'"
Mr. Logsdon said. "He has to quickly identify his
priorities."
   The nomination, which requires confirmation by the Senate,
surprised some members of Congress as well as analysts
because he isn't well known in Washington's space industry
circles.
   From a political standpoint, Mr. Goldin is "an unknown,
sort of a David Souter-type," said John Pike, director of
space policy for the Federation of American Scientists,
referring to the Supreme Court justice. Whereas the
51-year-old Mr. Goldin has spent much of his career working
on classified Pentagon projects, Mr. Pike said that "his main
responsibilities at NASA will be handling public relations
and shaping public perception."
   Mr. Pike also said that Mr. Goldin's appeal to the White
House is partly due to the fact that TRW has done a lot of
work involving small satellites -- one of the directions in
which the National Space Council wants NASA to move.
   The space council has been pushing NASA to be more
technologically innovative, and to pursue less costly
programs rather than the longer, more expensive ones NASA has
embraced.
   Mr. Goldin, who is vice president and general manager of
the TRW Space  Technology Group, has worked on intelligence
satellites and the Strategic Defense Initiative programs
known as Brilliant Eyes and Brilliant Pebbles. He also has
been involved in the launch and operation of NASA's Tracking
and Data Relay Satellites, which provide space
communications.