What's News --
   World-Wide
An opposition leader charged that the seizure of power by
the new regime, which includes the defense minister and
military chief, was a coup d'etat.
   ---
   Pro-Communist rallies drew thousands of people in Moscow
and other cities, with demonstrators demanding resurrection
of the old Soviet Union and a return to state-subsidized
prices. Separately, Russia and Ukraine reached a tentative
compromise Saturday on the issue of who controls the Black
Sea fleet.
   ---
   The White House is considering a proposal to give a tax
deduction to middle-class people for some health-care
expenses, as part of a plan that will be billed as making
health care cheaper and more accessible.
   ---
   Five soldiers reportedly died in a clash marring a
10-day-old truce in Croatia, but Yugoslav officials said the
rest of the republic was quiet. On Saturday, the European
Community rejected the Yugoslav Defense Ministry's version of
how five EC monitors were killed last week, clouding plans
for deployment of U.N. peacekeepers.
   ---
   FDA Commissioner Kessler is expected today to publicly
endorse a simplified food label for children. Food executives
contend that such a move would violate the intent of labeling
changes that were announced last November.
   ---
   Middle East peace talks were set to resume today in
Washington between Israel, Syria, Lebanon and a joint
Jordanian-Palestinian delegation. Separately, PLO Chairman
Arafat made a speech by telephone to a rally in Arab east
Jerusalem to protest Israel's plans to deport 12
Palestinians.
   ---
   Bulgarian President Zhelev failed to win a clear majority
in the initial round of the nation's first-ever presidential
vote, according to unofficial results. With a rival backed by
ex-Communists making a surprisingly strong showing, Zhelev
faced the possibility of a runoff next Sunday.
   ---
   The CIA is weighing a task force's recommendations on ways
the intelligence agency can be more open to the public, but
no decisions have been made, according to an agency
spokesman. He said the purpose of the panel's study was to
try to help people understand what the CIA's functions are.
   ---
   Germany will reduce expenditures on weapons procurement
over the next 13 years to $77 billion from the previously
projected $120 billion, Defense Minister Stoltenberg
announced Saturday. Programs for increasing the number and
quality of tanks, artillery, aircraft and warships will be
cut back or eliminated, he said.
   ---
   A federal appeals court ruled that DNA "fingerprinting"
should more easily be admitted as evidence to identify
criminal defendants. In such cases, prosecutors match up a
DNA profile from the defendant with a profile taken from a
sample of blood, semen or hair found at the scene of the
crime.
   ---
   The Supreme Court agreed Friday to decide whether Congress
exceeded its constitutional authority when it made each state
responsible for disposing of all low-level radioactive waste
produced within its borders.
   ---
   Kenyan authorities arrested a former vice president and a
businessman, and state radio accused them of fanning rumors
that President Moi would turn over power to the army to avoid
a possible election defeat. The rumors, which have been
circulating for at least a month, were discussed by
opposition leaders at a news conference Friday.
   ---
   The Philippines imposed a nationwide gun ban, hoping to
avert violence ahead of May 11 general elections. The
government banned the carrying of firearms outside homes,
ordered mobile checkpoints and barred politicians from
keeping private armies. The gun ban is to remain in effect
until the middle of June.
   ---
   A Roman Catholic leader expressed fears that there will be
renewed violence in El Salvador by extremist groups trying to
block peace accords reached by the government and rebels. The
auxiliary archbishop of San Salvador said that despite the
scheduled signing of the accords this Thursday, other
renegade groups will remain active.