Environment:
   CD Marketers
   Will ELiminate
   Paper Packaging
   ----
   By Meg Cox
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Environmentalists and consumers are cheering the news. But
record stores, which fought the change, say retooling their
stores will cost millions -- and they expect the record
industry to help pay for it.
   "I think this is wonderful news," said Sue Wilson of
Trumbull, Conn., who was shopping at an HMV record store here
yesterday. "Long boxes are a pain to open, and then you just
throw them away. It seemed like the record industry was just
going to keep on discussing this problem and never do
anything."
   The record industry's trade group, the Recording Industry
Association of America, announced here yesterday that the
change will take effect with CDs released in April 1993.
Under the new voluntary standard, all CDs will be sold in
packages that are five inches by 5 1/2 inches, roughly half
the size of the disposable long box. The new standard is the
size of the current plastic "jewel box," and it is expected
that most record companies will elect to package their
existing jewel boxes alone rather than investing in new
packaging the same size.
   "Whether companies use the existing plastic jewel box or
some other environmentally friendly package of the same size
will be up to the companies to decide," said Jason Berman,
the trade group's president. "But for most, I'm confident
they'll go with a shrink-wrapped jewel box."
   Since their introduction in the U.S. a decade ago, CDs
have been sold in long boxes, although jewel boxes alone are
standard in the rest of the world. U.S. record retailers
wanted a package that fit the bins they had used for vinyl
albums, and they said the small jewel boxes would increase
shoplifting.
   But as disk sales soared -- to about 43% of music revenue
currently -- environmentalists and recording artists began to
demand a more responsible package. The recording industry
association announced last year that it would eliminate the
long box, but then the industry battled over what would
replace it. At a convention of retailers a year ago, Time
Warner Inc.'s Warner Music Group announced that it had a
solution: a paperboard package called Eco-Pak that could be
sold in the long box size but folded down by consumers to the
jewel box size.
   A number of other record companies felt that powerful
Warner was trying to force them to adopt Eco-Pak, which was
designed by a Warner subsidiary. A competition ensued as
various designs were proposed by other record companies and
independent inventors, mostly variations on a plastic jewel
box that could be sold open in the long box size and then
made smaller.
   Now it seems reason has won the day, but other factors
that may have helped include growing pressure for legislative
action and lobbying by the plastics industry. In the end,
cost mattered a lot: any of the alternatives required
expensive factory retooling at a time when record labels are
financially squeezed, and market research showed that
consumers like jewel boxes as they are.
   "Our individual labels and artists might still elect to
use the Eco-Pak, but our company standard will be the
shrink-wrapped jewel box," said Jordan Rost, vice president
of marketing for Warner Music Group. "We were trying to be
creative and a good corporate citizen, but we just didn't get
enough support from environmentalists for Eco-Pak to justify
its extra expense."
   As they are now made, plastic jewel boxes aren't
recyclable, but manufacturers are working to change that,
said Bonnie Reese, head of a Hollywood-based environmental
group, Earth Communications Office. "I think the recording
industry's decision can serve as a model to every industry
that uses excess packaging," she said.
   The next battle will be over how much of the money saved
by record companies will be passed on to retailers. The
National Association of Record Merchandisers issued a
statement yesterday saying many of its retailer members will
be "highly frustrated" over the change and want money for new
fixtures and increased security. In announcing the new
standard, the recording industry association indicated its
members would help retailers bear the costs but said specific
arrangements will be settled by each company.
   The retailer group expressed hope that the lower packaging
cost will eventually reduce the price of CDs to the consumer,
but that remains to be seen.
   Despite apprehension over increased costs, at least one
retailer applauded the change. "It will be a disruption and
an expense, but artists and consumers have been telling us
for years to dump the long box," said Peter Luckhurst, U.S.
president for British retailer HMV, which has opened three
record stores in this country.
   HMV, in fact, is going to celebrate the death of the long
box at its two New York stores next weekend. As part of an
environmental-awareness weekend, HMV had planned to put giant
bins in the stores and encourage shoppers to toss their long
boxes in them. "We were going to deliver piles of the stuff
to record companies on a plate," said an HMV spokesman. "But
now that this has happened, we won't. This will become a
celebration instead that the long box has finally been
banned."