Letters to the Editor:
   A Threat to Freedom
   Of Artistic Expression
In attempting to stop the play, "Janis," Ms. Joplin's
heirs argued that they had the exclusive right to control all
artistic explorations of the singer's name, likeness and
performance style. This extremely broad interpretation of the
so-called "right of publicity," if accepted by the courts,
would threaten the creators of any film, book, play or other
work, whether fiction or nonfiction, dealing with the life or
personality of a performer. Ordinarily, the right of
publicity is limited to commercial exploitation of a
celebrity's likeness on souvenirs or in advertising
campaigns. To extend the right as the Joplin heirs desire
would be to hand over to a few individuals the power to
censor a vast field of artistic expression that explores,
depicts, comments on, parodies or gives homage to artists
such as Janis Joplin who have influenced our culture
profoundly.
   Marjorie Heins
   Director
   American Civil Liberties Union
   Arts Censorship Project
   New York
   ---
   You correctly characterize the dispute over whether a
performer's rights to an image survive death, and note a
trend in state laws protecting the right of publicity
perpetually.
   These state laws are of debatable constitutionality,
however. The Constitution gives Congress the exclusive right
to protect the works of artists and inventors for a limited
time. Even Congress cannot protect people from imitators
indefinitely. While the Supreme Court has allowed states to
protect a right to publicity on the grounds that this right
is part of the right of privacy, one of the key concepts of
privacy law is that privacy rights expire at death. The
Supreme Court has never decided whether a state can continue
the right of publicity past death.
   The right of publicity can chill free speech because heirs
can endorse works positive to a public figure while
squelching those that point out that even a great person can
have flaws. This attitude can prevent much of our culture
from becoming the basis of public debate. I'm sure this isn't
what our country's Founders intended.
   Steve Hofer
   Indianapolis