Letters to the Editor:
   Reduce Yo' Accent, Improve Bidness
While it is true that Southun bidnessfolks matriculatin'
in this heahh course on accent reduction and the eradication
of certain Southun words and expressions such as "y'all,"
"fixin' to," "yes suh" and "yes ma'am" may indeed "get the
South outta theah mouths," Ah'm concerned 'bout these same
bidnessfolks tippin' theah hands because they neglected "to
put the North back in."
   Fo' example, should the career-conscious Southunah
substitute the Northun "youse" for the Southun "y'all" when
referring to a group of two or more folks? Or, when the
Southunah is addressin' a group of ladies and gentlemen, is
it proper fo' him to refer to them as "you guys"? Finally, in
order to make the correct impression when addressin' a
gentleman with whom he is not acquainted, should the
Southunah drop the Southun "Ah beg pahdon" or "'scuse me,
suh" in favor of the Northun "Yo"?
   These and othah impo'tant questions will need to be
addressed bah experts such as that consultant from New
Jersey, Susan Shulman Cox, if Southun bidnessfolks are to
dispel those stereotypes brought on through many generations
of cow-tippin'. Ah'm just thankful that our Northun brethren
have seen fit to extend this helpin' hand so that Southunahs
in Atlanta will fo' the first time have the opportunity to
play on a level field with theah Northun counterpahts. If
this heahh accent-reduction thing catches on and weah all
talkin' like y'all, then maybe we Southunahs can hire some
mo' Northun consultants so that they can show us how y'all
run your companies and state and local gov'nments up theah in
Detroit, Philadelphia, New York and Bridgepo't.
   Upon furthah reflection, maybe we down heahh should be
teachin' you Yankees how to talk Southun.
   John R. Godbee III
   Investment Officer
   Rapides Bank  Trust Co.
   Alexandria, La.
   ---
   Any damn fool properly educated in the East knows full
well that the plural of "you" is "youse guys," and certainly
not "you all." And the very idea that anyone in this day and
age would dare extend the courtesy of a "Co-Cola" to a
visitor] It is a constant worry to us that our children will
learn such ways.
   As Lewis Grizzard, a great American and childhood idol to
many, has said: "The greatest form of birth control known to
man is a Bronx accent." An equally timely report.
   Thank you so much for reminding us just how bad it is down
here.
   Robert T. Stinnett
   Virgina Beach, Va.
   ---
   Those who pronounce
   Every word to the "lettah,"
   Shouldn't forget us
   Who like "buttah bettah."
   Anita Traweek Bentle
   Woodland Hills,
   Calif.
   ---
   Regardless of what is going on in the rest of the country,
we in the South are taught from birth to respect God, women,
our elders and our family name. We've also been taught that
it's bad manners to make fun of other people's accents, dress
or customs, especially when we're in their section of the
country.
   Southerners rich and poor receive the same training in
common courtesy. The fact that Northerners are bringing lots
of money into the South does not excuse the boorish behavior
of those corporate clones they're sending down here. They
spend the money to have them trained to do business in Japan
without offending the Japanese. Why not do the same for us?
   J.R. Mills Jr.
   Forsyth, Ga.
   ---
   Pity poor Atlanta] It has been in the business of losing
its charm for some years, but now, we are advised by your
article, its beleaguered citizens are rushing to their final
surrender. All is to be sacrificed on the altar of the
once-mighty dollar, and their birthrights exchanged for a
mess of pottage, and the harsh, stressful intonations of
Yankee speech.
   I hope they don't start putting sugar in the grits.
   Maria Fox
   New Orleans