ECU Is Becoming Currency of Choice
   In Emerging European Bond Markets
   ----
   By Terence Roth
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
For small investors, the seemingly irreversible trend
unleashes a bundle of knotty questions. What happens to a
German mark or Italian lira bond after monetary union? Will
prices and yields be the same? What are the currency risks?
Would it just be easier to bank on ECUs when saving for a
daughter's college bill?
   The simple answer is that the currencies of Germany,
France, Belgium, Denmark and the Netherlands will be among
the first group to be automatically converted into ECUs on a
certain day later in the decade, possibly as early as 1997.
Italy hopes to be among the first, but faces tough economic
reforms to comply with stiff entry criteria. And if the
British government decides to go ahead, there is little
question that it, too, will be among the first participants.
   For investors from those countries, an ECU bond today is
money in the bank, but the trick is in deciding whether to go
into ECU bonds now or later, or into short-term or long-term
maturities.
   Some of the financial circuitry is still incomplete and
certainly more complex than a government savings bond. The
ECU became more than a theoretical currency when European
Community governments committed to create a common European
currency by the end of the decade. But even expert analysts
are divided on some of the pros and cons of investing in ECUs
now. There also are risks that post-Maastricht squabbles over
the EC budget and closer political union, could complicate
ratification of monetary union in EC parliaments and derail
growing confidence in ECU investments.
   Big institutional investors, better equipped to hedge
against potential pitfalls, are plowing their weighty
billions into ECU debt as it becomes the currency of choice
for bond issuers.
   The advice to small investors is to wait, says Neil Rogers
an ECU market analyst for UBS-Phillips  Drew in London.
"Most private European investors are better off in their own
currencies than ECU bonds," he says.
   For one, prices of short- to medium-term ECU bonds have
been pulled up by rising demand from institutional investors.
The EC and sovereign borrowers began issuing debt in ECUs in
the 1980s as an easy way to diversify their borrowing in the
ECU basket of 11 EC currencies. Institutionals saw an easy
way to hedge their interest and currency risks.
   Interest accelerated as EC governments neared consensus on
monetary union. By last year ECU bond issues ranked third
behind the dollar and the yen in bond markets, ahead of the
mark and sterling. In 1991, ECU Eurobond issues jumped 70% to
23.7 billion ECUs ($29.5 billion), though this didn't include
domestic ECU issues.
   This year, debt analysts expect the volume of ECU Eurobond
issues alone -- not including the growing volume of domestic
ECU bond issues -- to double or triple as a result of
Maastricht, a clear sign of the ECU's growing market
influence.
   If the EC continues to grow with new arrivals, who also
would adopt it as their currency, the ECU market could rival
the huge U.S. Treasury market. EC governments, with Germany
as a notable exception, are increasing the floatings of ECU
debt. The French government is leading the way, declaring
that 15% of government borrowing will be in ECUs.
   For now, however, small investors still have to make
choices. These should focus on the strength of their national
currency and the level of bond yields in their national
market.
   Staying in a national bond market with yields higher than
ECU rates might be preferable in the short term, until
monetary union, because of better returns. But because such
currencies are more prone to be devalued in the EMS one last
time before monetary union, investors could lose out on a
currency windfall. Investors with a strong home currency
might be attracted by higher ECU yields, but risk a loss if
their currency is valued higher later.
   The average 10-year yield of ECU bonds of about 8.6% is
2.5 percentage points below those of Italy or Spain, for
example, and nearly a point below yields for U.K. gilts. This
suggests that those investors remain in their own markets, at
least for the short term.
   Outside the EMS, dollar-based investors are tempted by ECU
yields that are higher than U.S. rates. But they might want
to wait for a long-awaited dollar recovery, which would
create a cheaper ECU exchange rate.
   When it comes to German investors, analysts are less
cautious. Because the mark is the basis of a future European
currency and already the leading member of the ECU basket
with a more than 30% weighting, it is likely to remain a
guiding thread for ECU rates. Moreover, ECU yields at the
moment are about 0.5 percentage point above those of 10-year
German government bonds.
   But here, too, is a risk. If the mark is revalued upward
with the system prior to monetary union, investors will
receive fewer ECUs come payout time in, say, the year 2002.
In the reverse scenario, a weaker currency such as the
Italian lira could become a candidate for devaluation,
meaning that the Italian investor gets more ECUs in the year
2002. But investors gambling on a devalution of their
currency would be missing out on the higher national yields
in their own markets.
   Dominique Rambure, chairman of the ECU Banking
Association, a bankers group that promotes the use of ECUs,
urges private investors to feel confident about investing in
ECU bonds.
   "The ECU will be the currency of the strongest European
countries and the currency of the strongest trade power in
the world. It is a good bet," Mr. Rambure says.
   Not for everyone, German officials argue. They say that
investors can best stay in mark bonds now and get a better
ECU rate when their bonds are converted into ECUs by monetary
union.
   Many recent ECU issues, particularly those issued by the
EC Commission and its agencies, are parceled out in lots of
1,000 ECUs to appeal to small investors. While uncertainty
over many of the details is holding down retail demand,
analysts believe that investor confidence is only a matter of
time and familiarity.
   Already the ECU has broken out of its accounting
constraints to take on a life of its own and not an averaged
course of its interest rates and prices of its member
currencies.
   The ECU is increasingly acting as a benchmark that is
forcing a convergence of yields in European bond markets as
borrowers seek the best funding rates.
   ---
   Nick Bray in London contributed to this article.