Technology:
   Digital to Cut Personal Computer Prices,
   Begin Marketing, Mail-Order Campaign
   ----
   By John R. Wilke
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
"We want to make a statement to the marketplace that we
have arrived and we intend to stay," says Dennis Schneider,
PC marketing director for Digital, which is based in Maynard,
Mass.
   The mail-order PCs, manufactured to Digital's design by
Intel Corp. and Tandy Corp., have been priced as much as 50%
below Digital's current list prices. For example, a
fully-loaded machine based on Intel's 386sx chip with 52
megabytes of disk storage, color monitor, mouse and Windows
operating software is priced at $1,799. A stripped-down 386sx
computer with a 20 megabyte disk will cost $950.
   Digital, the nation's second-largest computer maker, will
be starting from scratch. It has virtually no presence in the
$22 billion PC market, where it has repeatedly tried and
failed to gain a foothold. Indeed, the mail-order effort
underscores Digital's inability to recruit established
computer dealers to sell its PCs.
   Still, few retail computer dealers today are making money,
while the mail-order market segment is booming. Digital
executives predict that their new mail order, telephone and
catalog sales campaign will double the company's PC sales to
$500 million in the fiscal year ending June 30.
   A Digital executive wouldn't confirm the size of the
campaign's advertising budget for the year, but did say that
spending between Jan. 21, the scheduled date of the
announcement, and March would be at least $6 million. He said
Digital will buy national advertising and large ads in such
computer publications as Byte, PC Magazine and PC Week.
   The advertisements poke fun at the company's past problems
in the PC market. "Can an 8,000-pound elephant outrun the
gazelles?" it asks. The copy says Digital "approached the PC
business with no proprietary axes to grind and no offbeat bus
architectures," a swipe at International Business Machines
Corp., which angered some buyers when it put proprietary
features into its PS/2 line of PCs.
   Digital promises to turn around orders to its toll-free
line in 48 hours, delivering custom-configured machines in as
little as three days.
   Despite the splash Digital hopes to make with its new PCs,
it won't soon amount to much more than a fraction of its $14
billion in annual revenue. And the line isn't likely to be a
big contributor to profit, analysts say.
   "Profit margins will be low," says Marc Schulman of UBS
Securities Inc. "But because there's no manufacturing
overhead, Digital's return on assets will be very high. And
with other companies doing most of the manufacturing, Digital
can afford to bomb prices more readily than the Compaqs and
IBMs of the world."
   Mr. Schulman also thinks that Intel might overtake Tandy
as Digital's key supplier. "Given the volume Digital
eventually could ship, it makes sense for Intel to give
Digital extremely low prices," he says. Indeed, it is to
Intel's advantage to have Digital emerge as a stronger
competitor in PCs, Mr. Schulman says, because Intel will earn
more on each sale by Digital than on sales by IBM or Compaq
Computer Corp,. which use Intel's basic chips but build their
own systems.
   Steven Lair, of market researcher Dataquest Inc., says
Digital's new prices are "absolutely competitive" and
predicts that other established companies will adopt the
mail-order tack. "No one is making money in the traditional
reseller channel now," he says, because of price erosion of
more than 25% to 30% over the last year.
   Digital insists that its prices will be competitive with
Dell and others but won't always be the lowest. "We won't be
engaging in price wars with companies that are going out of
business," says Digital's Mr. Schneider. "In a price war
there are only losers."