Salomon Begins Talks With SEC
   On Penalty in Auction Scandal
   ----
   By Laurie P. Cohen
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
There has never been any doubt that Salomon would seek a
settlement and face SEC civil penalties, since the firm has
publicly admitted it violated Treasury bidding rules and
federal securities laws.
   Salomon has set aside a $200 million reserve for potential
liabilities from the Treasury auction-bidding scandal; its
lawyers have told people that the firm shouldn't be forced to
pay more than $50 million in fines and penalties.
   But the SEC is under considerable pressure from Congress
to extract a greater toll. While there hasn't been any
discussion about the size of any fine Salomon will have to
pay, those involved in settlement negotiations said
congressional officials have pressed the agency to make it a
big one.
   A Salomon spokesman declined to confirm the settlement
talks, but said the firm "has cooperated in unprecedented
fashion" with the government since August. William McLucas,
the head of the SEC's enforcement division, declined to
comment.
   While Salomon has begun talking with the SEC, people
familiar with the talks say a settlement won't be concluded
until the firm also reaches an agreement with the U.S.
Attorney's Office in Manhattan and the Department of Justice
in Washington, which are both conducting criminal
investigations of the Treasury bidding scandal.
   Salomon hasn't been told that it won't face criminal
charges, but individuals familiar with the investigation say
it is increasingly unlikely that Salomon will have to plead
guilty to such charges. A plea to criminal charges can be a
serious blow to a big securities firm, because it can drive
away both customers and lenders.
   Salomon has blamed its problems on Paul Mozer, the former
head of its government bond trading desk who was fired in
August. Mr. Mozer's attorney, Stanley Arkin, has tried to
negotiate a plea bargain agreement on Mr. Mozer's behalf with
the Manhattan U.S. Attorney's office, people familiar with
the matter say. But those talks have been suspended. Mr.
Arkin wasn't available for comment.
   Salomon's negotiations with the SEC could drag on for some
time. The SEC hasn't told the firm what civil charges it is
likely to face. And Salomon isn't prepared to concede certain
violations.
   The toughest sticking point is likely to be the Treasury's
May 1991 auction, at which Salomon has acknowledged it
controlled for itself and its customers a staggering 86% of
the $12.26 billion in two-year notes sold. People familiar
with Salomon's position say the firm denies that it colluded
with customers to corner the market for the two-year notes
and drive up their price after the May auction.
   These people say Salomon is prepared only to admit that it
may have submitted a "partially false" bid on behalf of one
client, Tiger Management Corp., at the May auction. But
Salomon now believes that it disposed of Tiger's position
shortly after the auction.
   As to any potential government allegation of collusion,
Salomon "is willing to litigate that claim if it comes to
that," said one individual with knowledge of the firm's
position.
   Another point of contention between Salomon and the SEC is
likely to be the fines and penalties that Salomon will face.
Such penalties are usually set in accordance with the amount
of illegal profits that a securities firm earned.
   Salomon told the SEC last October that its profits from
seven Treasury auctions where it definitely submitted false
bids on behalf of customers totaled no more than $4.6
million. (The status of Salomon's profits from the eighth
auction, in May 1991, remain in dispute.) Indeed, Salomon has
said that its profits at auctions where it bid improperly
were less than its profits at other auctions where no
improprieties were found. Moreover, a report prepared by
Salomon for the SEC says the illegal bids didn't result in
monetary harm to competing bidders or to the U.S. government.
   Securities lawyers say the Salomon case represents the
first time that a securities firm will be punished under new,
tougher regulations passed by Congress in 1990.
   In addition to monetary fines and penalties, the SEC could
impose other civil sanctions on Salomon. Those sanctions
could include putting the firm on administrative probation,
enjoining it from committing further violations of securities
laws, revamping certain of Salomon's operations and requiring
the firm to appoint board members or managers acceptable to
the SEC.
   However, the SEC isn't expected to impose too harsh a
range of sanctions. That's because Salomon, under a new
management led by Interim Chairman Warren Buffett, has
already taken sweeping steps on its own to change many of its
previous practices. The firm has also cooperated fully with
the government since the investigation began.