Technology  Health:
   FCC Moves to Open Up a Portion
   Of Radio Spectrum to New Services
   ----
   By Mary Lu Carnevale
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
To open the way for emerging technologies, the commission
unanimously voted to propose allocating 220 megahertz of the
spectrum for new wireless services. A final decision could
come this year. Officials said that within the next several
months, the commission will take up the related matter of
designating specific uses for any newly freed portion of the
spectrum, including pocket phone service.
   The proposal, however, isn't without controversy. If
approved, the plan would dislodge many police, fire and other
public safety agencies as well as public utilities that are
currently licensed to use the frequencies between 1.85 and
2.20 gigahertz. Although the agency has said that existing
services could move to higher frequencies or switch to other
transmission methods, such as fiber optic lines, utilities
and public safety agencies have warned that the costs will be
considerable and the result could be less-reliable
communications.
   Some of the new services could be offered to the public in
about three years, commission officials predicted. "This is
not going to be the 14 years we saw with cellular service,"
said Robert Pepper, head of the FCC's Office of Plans and
Policy. "It will be much faster than that." In a policy
statement last fall, the commission set a goal of completing
the initial phase of spectrum allocations by the end of this
year.
   Pocket phones as well as small computer notebooks that
send and receive data already are being tested around the
country, and Mr. Pepper said that the development of digital
technologies is speeding up the time it takes to bring new
services to market.
   Addressing existing users' concerns about the cost of
building new communications systems, the commission proposed
allowing the new services to pay existing users for their
portion of the spectrum.
   Jeffrey Sheldon, general counsel for the Utilities
Telecommunications Council, said his organization was
"pleased to see the commission proposing a market-based
solution." But the council, he said, is still concerned about
the FCC's time limits on payments, and the availability of
higher frequencies that could deliver equally reliable
service.
   In setting up the interactive TV service, the FCC said it
would issue two licenses in each of 734 service areas that
correspond with the nation's cellular service areas. The
agency expects to start awarding the licenses by lottery
later this year.
   TV Answer, which has conducted a two-year test of
interactive services using more than 500 households, relies
on devices within the home that transmit data to local cell
sites. The cell sites, in turn, relay the data to a satellite
that feeds TV Answer's hub in Reston. TV Answer has begun
licensing its technology not only to get the service
established quickly but also to stave off potential
competition.
   To prevent the lotteries from becoming a sweepstakes for
speculators who have no intention of building interactive TV
systems, the commission set up a timetable for building the
system and barred the sale or transfer of the license until
50% of the system is constructed.
   ---
   Corrections  Amplifications
                                                                                                       

   A FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION proposal to set aside
a portion of the radio spectrum for new technologies would
allow public safety agencies to continue operating within the
band. The agencies' status was incorrectly reported in
Friday's edition.
   (WSJ Jan. 20, 1992)