Technology:
   Motorola, BCE's Northern Telecom Plan
   Venture in Cellular Phone Network Gear
   ----
   By John J. Keller
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The venture will first focus on North America as its
primary market. But another executive said the venture may at
some point pursue business in Europe. The two companies have
been fighting to land equipment orders for the
multibillion-dollar GSM (Groupe Speciale Mobile) digital
network that will connect many European countries.
   Motorola is based in Schaumburg, Ill. Northern Telecom is
a unit of BCE Inc., Montreal. Both companies declined to
comment on today's planned announcement, at which chairmen of
both companies plan to be present.
   A combination of the companies' cellular efforts is
critical, said analysts. Motorola and Northern have stumbled
badly in the U.S. cellular market in the past two years, with
Motorola pursuing a futile industry-standards strategy and
Northern making a tardy entrance into the market.
   In the meantime, American Telephone  Telegraph Co. and LM
Ericsson of Sweden moved to dominate the U.S. market for the
cellular switching and radio transmission gear being
installed in the nextgeneration digital cellular networks.
ATT replaced Motorola as the main supplier of switching and
radio gear to the GTE Corp. cellular companies, the nation's
second-largest service provider. Ericsson became the main
supplier to McCaw Cellular Communications Inc., the largest
cellular service company.
   "Motorola used to be No. 1, but since the new orders for
digital network equipment came in they have gotten nothing,"
said Stephen Sazegari, an analyst at Dataquest Inc., San
Jose, Calif. He estimated, for example, that Motorola's share
of the market for newly shipped network equipment will fall
to 16% this year from 35% in 1989 while ATT's will grow to
41% from 22% in 1989. Francis McInerney, a consultant at
North River Ventures Inc., New York, said "Northern's big
weakness is being a one-product company -- switches.
Motorola's radio business and Northern's switches are
complementary businesses." Indeed, if the two companies'
market shares are combined, they'll have 28% of the U.S.
market in 1992 -- far ahead of Ericsson's 19%, said Mr.
Sazegari.
   Even more crucial are Motorola's and Northern's positions
as suppliers of network gear for future networks that will
allow millions of phone subscribers to carry inexpensive
pocket-sized phones to make calls. The U.S. phone companies
are beginning to test equipment for such networks, called
"personal communications services," in several areas of the
country.
   Motorola and Northern had been discussing a combination of
their cellular businesses since last February when the two
companies said they would develop cellular telephone network
equipment to a common communications standard and sell each
other's gear. The two companies were already close: Northern
uses Motorola microprocessors in its computerized switches
and the two recently unveiled an office phone system in
Geneva that allows an office worker to use a radio pocket
phone away from the desk. The system is being field-tested in
Singapore.
   Motorola tried to buck the cellular industry's move to a
digital transmission standard called TDMA, for Time Division
Multiple Access, noted Mr. Sazegari. Digital systems offer
far greater transmission capacity, meaning more calls get
through, and unlike older analog systems, carriers aren't
locked into buying proprietary gear from one supplier. TDMA
essentially squeezes three times more capacity out of a radio
channel by sending signals in time slots.
   While other manufacturers such as ATT and Ericsson
supported TDMA, Motorola instead pushed for a stop-gap
technology called NAMPS, or Narrowband Advanced Mobile Phone
Service technology. The equipment would extend the life of
Motorola's network gear by increasing its capacity to handle
more phone calls -- something sorely needed by cellular
carriers that are experiencing explosive growth. But
Motorola's system isn't digital, and the Cellular
Telecommunications Industry Association and its member
carriers rejected it.
   Motorola, the world's largest supplier of cellular radio
transmission gear, has never been a force in the switching
arena, choosing instead to draw its switches from outsider
DSC Communications Corp., Plano, Texas. That relationship has
since cooled as Motorola has been forced to seek network
switches with greater sophistication and capacity than those
of DSC.
   Northern Telecom Chairman Paul Stern has said that one of
the company's biggest mistakes in recent years was entering
the market for wireless communications systems too late. "Now
Northern is turning a competitor into an ally," said Mr.
McInerney. "That's got to prove valuable."