LEISURE  ARTS -- Bookshelf:
   The Next Best Thing to Being There?
   ----
   By Lee Lescaze
Now, with "Vox" (Random House, 165 pages, $15), Mr. Baker
is gazing, or rather reaching, a little below the navel,
which makes this novel appropriate for the week of national
obsession with Gennifer Flowers's sex life.
   For "Vox" is a dirty book, a pornography not of thrusting
loins but of autoerotic lassitude. It is not so much kinky as
enervated. The novel consists of a single phone conversation
between Jim and Abby, who have just met on an adult party
line and retired from the party to an electronic back room
where they can talk alone at the cost of almost $2 a minute.
"I'd spend twenty dollars a minute for this," says Jim,
exulting in the joy of phone sex.
   Mr. Baker's earlier fiction holds most women at arm's
length. Sexual provocation comes from porn-magazine photos
and talking sex-education dolls or other fleshless creatures.
In "U and I," Mr. Baker remarks that his generation (born
1957) is the first to have grown up with the likes of
hard-core star Annette Haven on exhibit at a theater only a
bike ride away. His fictions have never celebrated the more
conventional sectors of eros.
   In "Vox," the arm's length has become long distance. Abby
lives in an Eastern city, Jim in a Western city. Each has a
sexual history that includes extensive experiments in finding
pleasure while alone. "And it's not like I haven't done
normal stuff here and there," Jim says before explaining why
normal stuff isn't his stuff of dreams.
   Missing from "Vox," owing to Jim and Abby's need to talk
alone, is the voice of Mr. Baker. This is his first book in
which he is not prominently present, layering his main
subject with his quirky observations on airplane tray tables,
hot-air handdryers or distinctions in attitudes toward living
and dead novelists. Jim and Abby, by comparison, have
conversational horizons constricted by the nature of their
goals, which are clear from the outset.
   In each of Mr. Baker's first three books, the odd range of
the author's mental wanderings is the main attraction. None
last long. Whether Mr. Baker is explaining why stapler-design
imitates that of locomotives and tone arms ("The Mezzanine")
or why Iris Murdoch is the best living novelist ("U and I"),
the reader can be confident that he will quickly move on to
another topic, some further piece of whimsy or curious
observation.
   He is often the smart aleck, the youngster seeing how far
he can go and get away with it (how long will the reader put
up with, let alone be charmed by, footnotes on the grooves in
escalator steps, ice skating rinks and records?), and often
plain smart.
   "Vox" owes more to the smart aleck. How tempting it must
be to such a clever writer to write a dirty book and have
everyone take it seriously, or even better, tell him it is
nice. (His first reader, Mrs. Baker, found it tender, he told
an interviewer from Mirabella. Only a churl would wonder if
Mrs. Baker's critical edge hasn't been softened by seeing a
disquisition on her pet words for going to the bathroom
appear in "Room Temperature.")
   Without Mr. Baker on hand, there isn't much in "Vox" to
distract a reader from the peculiar and not particularly
engrossing interests of Jim and Abby. They tell each other
their turn-ons and -- guess what? -- get turned on. Like
Annette Haven, Abby is more a man's (at least Jim's) dream
girl than a real woman. Jim isn't much of a character beyond
the sexual obsession that brought him to the adult party
line.
   Random House presents this book with the prediction it is
"sure to become an erotic classic." I wonder.
   Mr. Baker writes much more ably than the average
dirty-book writer. It seems unlikely, however, that such
faint praise would much please him, and I doubt that his
faint prose will please devotees of porn. Of course Mr.
Baker's skills and reputation make it more socially
acceptable to carry "Vox" to the gym than, say, "Jailbait
Nymphos."
   If not against the likes of "Jailbait Nymphos," against
what should "Vox" be measured? Other novels with a high
sexual content by erudite, serious novelists? "Lolita"?
"Portnoy's Complaint"? "Vox" is far too small, simple and
unfunny for that league.
   When Jim and Abby hang up, they can look back and remark
as Dr. Johnson did in a far different context that "the
happiest conversation is that of which nothing is distinctly
remembered, but a general effect of pleasing impression." The
reader, however, is less satisfied.
   Whatever else "Vox" does for Mr. Baker and his career, he
must realize that it lessens his chance of being elected
president.