LEISURE  ARTS -- Bookshelf:
   Murder on the Protectionist Front
   ----
   By Mark Hosenball
Mr. Crichton uses this familiar setup to ruminate on the
Japanese character, choosing mostly unsavory examples of
social and commercial intercourse. There is much here on the
Japanese take-no-prisoners attitude toward high-technology
trade and corporate takeovers, including the "dumping" of
below-cost goods to drive American competitors out of
business and the harassment of American companies trying to
enter the Japanese market. Another theme is the alleged
acquiescence of American business and government to these
aggressive Japanese practices. Opaque references to such
businesspage arcana as the Houdaille case and the Committee
on Foreign Investment in the United States (an inert
government committee that is meant to regulate foreign
takeovers) are stuffed into the text, adding more weight than
substance.
   To show how the seemingly devious manner in which Japanese
businessmen handle both Americans and each other is a product
of Japan's highly regimented society, Captain Connor treats
his guileless police sidekick (and the reader by extension)
to long discussions about local mores. All this is folded
into mind-warping disquisitions on the latest wonders of
Japanese video technology.
   This is a novel with pretensions. To his colorful
narrative, Mr. Crichton appends a bibliography of weighty,
earnest tomes on Japanese-American relations of the kind that
would put the most inflamed protectionist into a deep sleep.
Mr. Crichton's ostensible purpose is to encourage readers,
agitated by his suspense-coated polemic, to immerse
themselves in more sober literature on the subject.
   Like film director Oliver Stone, who succeeded in sparking
a serious public debate about alleged government and Mafia
complicity in the Kennedy assassination by concocting a
compelling but factually illiterate melodrama on the subject,
Mr. Crichton is using artifice for an unapologetically
political end. "This novel questions the conventional premise
that direct foreign investment in American high technology is
by definition good, and therefore should be allowed to
continue without restraint or limitation," he states in the
preamble to his bibliography. Like today's political
"professionals," he seems to conclude that lurid exaggeration
is the only way to awaken an American body politic that has
the attention span of a frozen pea. To give him credit, Mr.
Crichton's scholarship, if that's what it is -- research
probably is a better description -- is considerably more
thoughtful than Mr. Stone's. And Mr. Crichton's tone is far
less self-righteous. Also unlike Mr. Stone, Mr. Crichton now
and again shows signs of a sense of humor in his obviously
hyperbolic attempts at drama.
   Call-girl murders are rare in the history of
Japanese-American business exchanges, as are sexual blackmail
of American politicians by Japanese corporations, Los Angeles
apartment-house sieges by gun-toting Japanese hit men, and
overweening Japanese influence on American metropolitan
police departments. On the other hand, the reality of
Japanese-American relations, at least anecdotally, is
sometimes even stranger than the background painted by Mr.
Crichton.
   Could any novelist dream up the Japanese gambling czar who
was once interned by American forces after World War II as a
suspected war criminal and who now is one of the largest
benefactors of Jimmy Carter's charities? And recently, NBC
News reported that a front company for the Japanese mafia, or
Yakuza, which plays a supporting role in Mr. Crichton's book,
had established a business relationship with President Bush's
(unwitting -- or witless) brother. This surely goes beyond
anything Mr. Crichton has imagined in his explorations of
sadomasochistic sex, board-room back stabbing, blackmail or
the weakened state of America. (Oddly enough, he skims over
such self-inflicted wounds as the credit orgy of the 1980s,
the pursuit of short-term profit at the expense of long-term
growth, and the eagerness of some of Washington's most able
political and legal talent to take on lucrative foreign
lobbying contracts.)
   Still, never mind the didactic message of "Rising Sun."
Mr. Crichton does keep his story rattling along toward a not
entirely predictable denouement in a big pit of concrete.
   ---
   Mr. Hosenball is a producer for the coming program
"Dateline NBC."