Accounting
   Firm to Settle
   Suit on Thrift
   ---
   Arthur Andersen May Pay
   As Much as $30 Million
   In Lincoln Savings Case
   ----
   By David J. Jefferson and Lee Berton
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
More settlements are expected as other firms involved in
the case scramble to avoid burdensome legal settlements.
Earlier this month, the federal Office of Thrift Supervision
filed civil charges against onetime Lincoln law firm Kaye,
Scholer, Fierman, Hays  Handler, New York, seeking $275
million and freezing its assets. The firm quickly agreed to a
$41 million settlement.
   Attorneys for the plaintiffs in the Lincoln civil case in
Tucson, Ariz., are predicting a large settlement this week
with the accounting firm Ernst  Young, the successor firm to
Arthur Young  Co., which was American Continental's auditor.
A spokesman for Ernst  Young declined to comment.
   "With the spectre of Kaye Scholer at our back, we worry
that these vastly inflated amounts asked by government
regulators and class-action attorneys are upping the ante
beyond the capacity of our firms," said the general counsel
of a large accounting firm, who declined to be identified.
The Resolution Trust Corp., the federal agency overseeing the
thrift bailout, recently sued KPMG Peat Marwick for $100
million and Deloitte  Touche for $150 million for alleged
negligence in their audits of collapsed thrifts. Both firms
deny any wrongdoing.
   Arthur Andersen had been paid $3.8 million to audit
American Continental's books for a three-year period ended
with the 1985 audit, but quit following a dispute with
American Continental chairman Charles H. Keating Jr. over his
insistence that the firm approve a $9 million profit booked
by Lincoln, but which was the result of an allegedly sham
land sale. Andersen said it resigned from audits of many
thrifts in the early and mid-1980s because it anticipated
problems with the industry.
   The class-action suit, representing more than 20,000
American Continental bond and stockholders, had alleged that
Arthur Andersen doctored Lincoln Savings' loan records prior
to a March 1986 examination by the Federal Home Loan Bank
Board.
   In Chicago, a spokesman for Arthur Andersen, the biggest
U.S. accounting firm, said that the settlement amount "will
not materially affect the firm." He noted that besides the
$22 million settlement that will be paid to bond holders who
filed the class action, a contingency provision obligates
Andersen to pay 5% of claims approved by the court that may
be filed by buyers of common shares of American Continental.
   The contingency claims will be capped at $8 million, but
the Arthur Andersen spokesman said he expects they "will be
relatively small and will not materially increase the cost of
the settlement to Andersen." He said that although Andersen
believes the allegations against it in the Keating case are
unfounded, it agreed to settle "to avoid escalating legal
costs of protracted litigation and to get the matter behind
us."
   According to attorneys familiar with the case, Andersen
last year agreed to pay from $6 million to $25 million -- the
exact amount to be determined by later arbitration -- to
settle with the Resolution Trust Corp. Ernst  Young last
year settled with the RTC for $41 million, of which $18
million was set aside for other contingencies, a spokeswoman
said.
   In New York, a spokesman for Deloitte  Touche said "we
haven't settled (in the bondholder case) and don't believe a
settlement is imminent." Touche Ross  Co., a predecessor
firm of Deloitte  Touche, replaced Arthur Young as American
Continental's auditor but never issued a financial report for
the thrift holding company, which then collapsed in 1989. "We
don't think we should be part of this bondholder suit in the
first place," the spokesman said.
   As to the significance of this case for the major
accounting firms, attorneys familiar with such negligence
cases who prefer anonymity say that the accounting profession
is worried that the size of these claims has escalated to
such large amounts that it may soon hurt the viability of the
business.
   The six largest accounting firms are mainly insured by the
Lloyds of London syndicate and the deductibles that they pay
are individually negotiated and range from $3 million to $5
million, say attorneys and accountants familiar with
negligence cases. They note that any settlement of the size
of Andersen's will doubtless "up the ante" for all six of the
major firms, which already have been hurt by large increases
in insurance negligence costs over the past few years.