Economy:
   Regions Report
   Improvement
   In the Economy
   ---
   But Firms Remain Cautious,
   Says Fed Survey; Level
   Of Bank Lending Is Flat
   ----
   By Jonathan Weil
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The level of bank lending is flat, although residential
mortgage lending appears to be "a bright spot" in many areas,
the Fed says. And the pace of mortgage refinancing is
tapering off somewhat, reflecting recent jumps in mortgage
rates.
   The survey calls manufacturing-sector reports mixed, as
layoffs and rising unemployment are continuing in some areas
while other districts report modest gains. Overall, the
report notes "some improvement in economic conditions," but
it salts those remarks by emphasizing that growth has been
slow and probably will continue that way for the time being.
   And in spite of the encouraging signs over the past two
months, businesses widely indicated they would remain
cautious until a more solid pattern of growth has been
established.
   In a similar vein, Treasury Secretary Nicholas Brady said
yesterday that "recovery is surely on its way." But he
suggested that statistics alone won't herald the end of the
recession. "The American people by themselves are going to
decide," he told reporters. And he repeated concerns that the
Fed won't keep the money supply growing fast enough.
   The following is an overview of economic conditions in
each of the 12 Fed districts:
   Boston district. Retailers appear to be pulling out of the
recession ahead of manufacturers. Nevertheless, both sectors
expect modest recovery by mid-1992. Auto sales generally are
up. And most realtors have noticed slight or healthy
increases in residential sales.
   New York district. Department stores and home builders
have been pleasantly surprised in recent weeks. But state
unemployment rates continue escalating, hitting 8.9% in New
York and 7.6% in New Jersey, and heavy corporate layoffs are
expected in coming months. Banks continue to be tight on
loans.
   Philadelphia district. Economic activity appears to be
improving slightly but consistently. Manufacturers report
rising new orders, while retailers indicate small gains in
sales. Moderately priced homes are selling well.
   Cleveland district. This district's report is mixed but
optimistic. Retail sales have outperformed expectations, and
many hope for a pickup in auto sales. Manufacturers seem to
have liquidated their unwanted inventory and now expect a
recovery. Loan demand, except for mortgages, is stagnant.
   Richmond district. Most sectors of this region's economy
have improved slightly in recent weeks, after a sluggish
year-end report. Retail sales are up, as is spending by
tourists, and factories note increases in their activity.
Home sales are up and imports have risen.
   Atlanta district. As in other places, auto shoppers are
looking, but not necessarily buying. Retailers say sales have
jumped. And most manufacturers report steady or higher new
orders and production. Business loans are picking up, and
home sales have increased again.
   Chicago district. This district has "experienced a slow
but increasingly widespread advance" in economic activity
since the end of January. Recent indicators have signaled
economic expansion, as manufacturers and auto dealers
continue to perform at "surprisingly strong" levels.
   St. Louis district. Most sectors in this district are
reporting growth, as outside companies continue relocating to
the area. Construction activity continues to grow, while
business- and consumer-loan demand show signs of picking up.
Transportation companies also say demand is up.
   Minneapolis district. The economy in this region "appears
to be strengthening somewhat," as retail sales, including
housing and autos, all have improved. Tourism remains a
bastion of strength, thanks to January's Super Bowl and this
month's NCAA basketball Final Four tournament.
   Kansas City district. The economy here is growing, though
slowly. The farming and energy sectors continue weakening,
while housing starts, new car sales and retail sales keep
improving. Retailers appear satisfied with current inventory
levels, but manufacturers continue to trim theirs.
   Dallas district. Activity has improved slightly since the
last survey, with growth generally being reported as
broad-based. Agriculture and energy sectors continue to hurt,
however. Retailers, manufacturers and service companies alike
all report visible signs of recovery. But low prices for oil
and natural gas have forced cutbacks in exploration and
production.
   San Francisco district. Conditions in the area "range from
persistent weakness in California to moderate growth in
intermountain regions," the district says. Interest-rate
reductions continue to spark sales of homes and autos.
However, employment declines are reported in defense-related
industries, banking, and the legal and public sectors. Recent
rains have improved farm prospects.