Japan Agrees to Measures
   To Aid Sales of U.S. Goods
   ---
   Accord Touches Off Debate
   On Whether Bush Seeks
   Shift to `Managed Trade'
   ----
   This article was prepared by
   Christopher J. Chipello, Michel McQueen
   And Clay Chandler in Tokyo,
   And Bob Davis in Washington
Some say it signals a Bush administration move away from
free trade and toward promoting "managed trade." Others say
it's simply a one-time deal to deflect growing criticism back
home. Still others -- namely auto executives and union
officials -- say the measures amount to too little, too late.
   "You're setting a precedent for politically brokered
solutions {to trade disputes}, in which the best and the
brightest don't necessarily win," said Claude Barfield,
director of trade policy at the conservative American
Enterprise Institute in Washington. He called President
Bush's trip to Asia a "fool's errand."
   Bill Frenzel, a retired long-term congressman and
free-trade advocate, said he doubted that the president was
turning permanently toward managed trade. He said that Mr.
Bush, by taking along the heads of the Big Three auto makers,
backed himself into a corner where he had to show he could
prod the Japanese into providing relief. "I hope this is just
a venial sin on the road to free trade," Mr. Frenzel said.
   Administration officials insisted they weren't abandoning
their commitment to free trade. "It's voluntary," said
Treasury Secretary Nicholas Brady, referring to Japan's
agreement to increase imports from the U.S. In contrast to
other highly industrialized nations, many of Japan's markets
were closed in the past 30 to 40 years, one senior
administrative official said, explaining: "Japan is unique.
And that's why you need a unique approach in dealing with
some of the trade problems."
   But Clyde Prestowitz, a former U.S. trade official who
favors managed trade, said he expects the administration to
push ahead with other measures to force the Japanese to buy
U.S. telecommunications equipment, wood products, optical
fibers and a wider variety of computers. Robert Lawrence, a
trade expert at Harvard University, said the agreement showed
the absence of former White House chief of staff, John
Sununu, a free trade advocate.
   The Japanese presented estimates that procurement by their
auto makers of U.S.made car parts will rise to $19 billion in
the year ending March 31, 1995, from about $9 billion in the
year ended last March. Within that total, imports -- as
opposed to local procurement for Japanese makers' U.S. plants
-- would rise to $4 billion from $2 billion.
   Nevertheless, Ford Motor Co. President Harold Poling said
"I'm not smiling," as he left a one-hour meeting yesterday,
in which he joined General Motors Corp. Chairman Robert
Stempel and Chrysler Corp. Chairman Lee Iacocca in urging the
heads of Japan's five largest car makers to help break down
what the Americans regard as Japanese structural barriers to
their products. The chief executives of Toyota Motor Corp.,
Nissan Motor Co., Honda Motor Co., Mitsubishi Motors Corp.
and Mazda Motor Corp. faced the Americans at the Okura Hotel
across the street from the U.S. Embassy.
   Japanese government and auto officials rebuffed U.S.
carmakers' central demand that Japan eliminate its $20
billion automotive trade surplus with the U.S. in five years.
Implicit in the demand was that Japan ship fewer cars to the
U.S.
   "We're not satisfied that the issue of the trade imbalance
was sufficiently addressed," said Mr. Stempel. Given the size
of Japan's trade surplus with the U.S., he added, it would be
"natural" for Congress to take a "protectionist stance."
   Mr. Poling and Mr. Stempel didn't suggest specifically
that Japan reduce auto exports to the U.S. How to narrow the
surplus was up to the Japanese, they said.
   U.S. officials were careful to describe the auto plan as a
compilation of voluntary measures by both sides, even though
Mr. Bush at the news conference referred to the measures as
"agreements."
   In the U.S. yesterday, United Auto Workers union President
Owen Bieber criticized the U.S.-Japan trade plan. "When
President Bush went to Japan, he said his trip was about
`jobs, jobs, jobs.' Now that his negotiations with the
Japanese have concluded, it's clear that all the trip
achieved was promises, promises, promises," Mr. Bieber said.
   The Japanese unexpectedly withheld estimates for the
number of finished U.S. cars they plan to sell through their
affiliated dealer networks. The total announced by the five
major Japanese car makers earlier in the week would increase
sales of Big Three cars in Japan by 20,000 units a year by
1994. That would more than double current annual sales by the
Big Three in Japan, but would still represent a tiny fraction
of the seven-million-unit Japanese vehicle market and have a
negligible impact on trade and jobs.
   For their part, the Japanese executives seemed bemused by
U.S. executives' indignation. Nissan President Yutaka Kume,
at a news conference following the session, said he didn't
feel inclined to apologize for the imbalance. "We haven't
done anything wrong, so we don't have to rectify anything,"
he said.
   Mr. Iacocca said the trade reductions agreed upon for
finished vehicles were only "a token." "At this rate it will
take until well into the next century to even make a dent in
the trade deficit or have any impact on job creation," he
said.
   Although the action plan notes that in raising the
Japanese procurement targets, "special consideration will be
given to the U.S. parts industry," it doesn't specify the
definition of an American supplier. Honda Executive Vice
President Shoichiro Irimajiri told reporters at the company's
Tokyo headquarters yesterday that much of Honda's increase in
U.S. procurement will go to the U.S.-based affiliates of
Japanese suppliers with which the company has longstanding
ties.
   In fielding questions yesterday, the five Japanese
executives seemed to oscillate between a desire to tell the
U.S. executives to shape up, and a fear of sounding too smug.
Mr. Kume warned that, targets or no, Japan's car makers won't
buy inferior U.S.-made components, and that they can't force
Japanese drivers to buy cars unsuited to their tastes.
   President Bush asserted in a joint news conference with
Japanese Prime Minister Kiichi Miyazawa that his visit to
Japan "sent a strong message about the importance of fair
access to markets." But the message seemed to have lost
something in translation. Japanese officials continued to
portray their measures as a kind of affirmative-action
program designed to help the ailing U.S. economy in its time
of need. Mr. Miyazawa cited the problems of homeless people
and AIDS in the U.S., adding that "education is not as high
as in the past," and "U.S. industries are not as competitive
as in the past for various reasons."
   U.S. officials and corporate executives spoke of the trip
as "part of a process," and many insisted that the trip had
added momentum to efforts to open the Japanese market.
   "I'm pleased the president of the U.S. said through
actions and in words that we are going to be more supportive
of business," said Joseph Gorman, chairman of TRW Inc. "For
the first time, {American} business and government stand
united. The economy matters. Business matters. Even some of
our industries matter."