Politics  Policy:
   For Sen. Harkin, Vigorous Applause
   Doesn't Necessarily Mean Solid Support
   ----
   By Michel McQueen
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
"We'll send a shocker around this country and around this
world," he says to vigorous applause from his listeners.
   The problem is that even though they're clapping, they
aren't necessarily buying. Of the two dozen people in the
room, only a handful walk away committed. "He impressed me
that he knows what he's talking about," says Angela Bramante,
a retiree attending the coffee with her husband Fred, but she
isn't convinced. "I think it's important to listen to what
they're all saying at this point."
   This is how it goes for Tom Harkin in the waning days of
the race. He has endorsements -- 54 New Hampshire state
delegates, nearly half the Democratic delegation, as well as
some key labor backers. He has certain victory in the Iowa
caucuses, eight days before the primary here. He has enough
money on hand to stay on the airwaves through election day.
And he has a strong message -- "I'm the only real Democrat in
the race," say his ads. Moreover, as the only red-meat
liberal in a field where most of the candidates are trying to
tailor a more centrist appeal, Mr. Harkin presumably ought to
be able to garner the 30% to 35% that presumably would be
needed to win.
   But somehow or another, the passion he projects hasn't
translated into a meaningful impact on the race or a firm
foundation of voter support. Weekend polls in New Hampshire
show Mr. Harkin mired at around 10%, well behind the leaders,
Arkansas Gov. Bill Clinton and former Massachusetts Sen. Paul
Tsongas.
   Mr. Harkin already has scapegoats to explain his failure
to catch fire: He blames the press for giving him "a raw
deal" by misrepresenting him as a big government spender or
ignoring him entirely. The latter charge seems hard to
sustain given the entourage of reporters trailing him in New
Hampshire last week. But mispresented or not, Mr. Harkin's
strongly protectionist message on trade and his calls for
investment in "human capital," for a comprehensive though
still-undefined national health care system, for an increase
in federal spending for education, and for a series of
national service options for young people -- coupled with an
angry, "give 'em hell" delivery -- still seem to strike many
voters as the remedies of the past and not the future.
   Mr. Harkin shows few signs of softening his sometimes
searing message. One recent commercial does strike a less
angry note, emphasizing his role in passing the landmark
Americans with Disabilities Act and featuring his brother
Frank, who is deaf. But at the same time, Harkin radio ads
last week lambasted opponents Clinton, Tsongas and Nebraska
Sen. Bob Kerrey as "weak Democrats" for supporting a trade
pact with Mexico that Sen. Harkin claims would "send your
jobs abroad." And a new TV commercial on trade launched over
the weekend shows scenes from China's bloody crackdown on
pro-democracy demonstrators in Tiananmen Square, with Mr.
Harkin vowing that as president he would keep out products
made by "slave labor."
   Sen. Harkin says he may be frustrated but isn't
discouraged by his lack of progress in New Hampshire so far,
and political observers here note that in many recent New
Hampshire primaries, victory has gone to the candidate who
gets hot in the campaign's closing days. And Harkin partisans
maintain that his position as the only full-speed-ahead
liberal could yet give him such an opening. Insists the
candidate himself: "I believe the message is right, the
momentum is right, the timing is right."