Crash Course:
   Can Big Money Fix
   Urban School Systems?
   A Test Is Under Way
   ---
   Kansas City, Ordered to End
   Inner-City Segregation,
   Is Sparing No Expense
   ---
   A `Magnet' for Every Taste
   ----
   By Dennis Farney
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Even as most urban school systems decay, Kansas City is
building a network of stunning, and stunningly expensive, new
and remodeled schools. Construction alone has cost $500
million and counting. The program is politically unique,
driven by a court desegregation order that, in practice,
forces the state to pay the lion's share for all sorts of
improvements -- new schools, new equipment, teaching
approaches -- that the local school board thinks up.
   The 1984 court decision that set this in motion didn't
order mandatory busing, nor link the urban school district
with suburban neighbors. Rather, the judge's idea was to make
the schools within the city -- where the population is
heavily white but the school population is three-fourths
nonwhite -- so attractive that whites as well as blacks would
want to attend city schools.
   Big chunks of the resulting spending program now are
falling into place, and soon Kansas City's experience should
begin to answer some questions of importance to policy-makers
nationally.
   Can Olympic-sized swimming pools, field trips to distant
states and imported teachers from Belgium lure urban whites
back from their private schools? Can truckloads of new
computers reverse a prolonged test-score slide? Can nearly
five dozen "magnet" schools, together representing almost
every conceivable approach to teaching, succeed where more
traditional efforts have failed?
   "This is the most significant educational experiment in
the country; it may be the most significant in the history of
the country," says Art Rainwater, associate superintendent.
"We have the chance to turn around urban education."
   And if Kansas City fails? "Then I think it's questionable
whether it can be done in any urban setting," says the
district's superintendent, Walter Marks.
   Kansas City certainly won't fail for lack of facilities,
or spending. Backed by U.S. Judge Russell Clark, the district
is opening one-of-a-kind schools like $32 million Central
High. It boasts a giant indoor swimming pool, a weight room
rivaling that of a small-college football team, and former
Olympians on its instructional staff. It recently sent an
integrated fencing team to compete in Vail, Colo. Central's
educational approach is Classical Greek: "a sound mind in a
sound body."
   In the same complex is a Computers Unlimited school
boasting $4.5 million in hardware and software. Still another
magnet school, Paseo High, will emphasize the visual and
performing arts. Half-completed and running over budget,
Paseo is designed to have two theaters, a recital hall and
its own art gallery.
   The result of this huge infusion of tax money, both
supporters and critics of it agree, is to create that rarest
of urban districts: one where schools, at least in their
physical plant, are beginning to surpass the suburban and
private schools around them.
   "For the first time since desegregation, the `haves' are
inner-city blacks," says Arthur Benson, a Kansas City lawyer
and architect of the original desegregation suit.
   "We're building an urban district that's not only equal --
it's beyond," agrees Mark Bredemeier. But he sees it
differently. He is general counsel of the conservative
Landmark Legal Foundation, which has led a fight to scale
back the spending effort.
   Other critics also see a money-eating machine run amok --
a perception strengthened when the district hired Mr. Marks
as superintendent even as his former district (Richmond,
Calif.) was sinking into bankruptcy. "This is open-ended,
it's unlimited," complains Michael Fields, a Missouri
assistant attorney general. "Every bell and whistle, every
fad that exists in education, is being funded in Kansas City.
We're going to spend an unconscionable amount of money on
that district, to the detriment of other schools in the
state."
   This open-ended quality is what state and local taxpayers
find particularly galling about the order. It sets a goal of
40% white and 60% minority enrollment in each magnet school
but sets no deadline. While the district keeps on spending,
critics ask how much effort is enough.
   But Judge Clark has held that decades of state
indifference had helped produce a segregated district whose
physical plant had "literally rotted away." Vickie Harris, a
36-year-old mother, recalls the public school once attended
by her son Robert: "The paint was peeling off the walls. The
{stench in} the bathrooms was horrible." Aasim Baheyadeen,
now a school-board member, tells of sending his child into
classrooms where rainwater would collect in buckets and
insulation dangled from ceiling holes.
   "The stress on those kids was the stress of a coal miner,"
Mr. Baheyadeen says.
   Judge Clark's order to remedy this despite the cost, and a
series of follow-up spending directives, have survived state
appeals largely intact. In a five-to-four ruling in 1990, the
U.S. Supreme Court affirmed that federal judges may force
districts to raise taxes for desegregation purposes. As a
practical matter, the state of Missouri must pick up any
expenses the district can't, since the state and district
were both found liable.
   Besides funding construction, court-ordered desegregation
money more than doubles the district's operating budget,
pushing per-pupil spending well above the national average.
Missouri puts the eventual cost of remedies ordered so far,
including construction, transportation and program
enrichment, at $1.2 billion.
   Still only part way through its massive rebuilding
program, the district is approaching a moment of truth. As
Superintendent Marks recently told a gathering of parents and
taxpayers: "The dilemma is, how do we make all this work?"
   Making the schools work is apt to prove far harder than
simply building them. Even sympathetic observers concede
privately that perhaps a quarter of the district's teachers
are substandard. In terms of pupil test scores, only three
grades exceed national norms.
   But those three are the lowest three, kindergarten through
second, suggesting to some that improvement is working its
way through the system. In terms of desegregation, the most
that can be claimed is that white flight has been arrested;
the percentage of white pupils rose a half point this school
year, to 25.8%. That remains far below the 40% goal set by
Judge Clark.
   As Kansas City tries to restructure the very way it
delivers education, its vehicle is the magnet-school system.
And the city is pushing the concept of educational choice to
its limits. It has 56 magnet schools, each built around a
theme. Parents who favor an old-fashioned, no-frills
education can choose a Latin grammar magnet -- something like
a Catholic school without the nuns. If they want discipline,
there's the Military Science magnet, where high schoolers
wear uniforms and train for armed-forces careers. If they
want flexibility and individual creativity, they can send
their kids to a Montessori magnet, a total-immersion
foreign-language magnet, or a Computers Unlimited magnet. If
they don't like magnet schools at all, there remain a score
of traditional schools.
   Within the confines of the 40%/60% court target, pupils
are free to pick from the whole smorgasbord. If they live
more than a mile from the school they've chosen, the district
will transport them there. Some 4,000 students make it to
school under their own power, but in a logistical nightmare,
a fleet of buses and chartered taxi cabs drives 90,000 miles
-- each day -- hauling some 32,000 others thither and yon
over the sprawling district.
   Walk the hallways of Knotts Environmental Science
elementary school with principal Carlene Canady and you see
one piece of the magnet system that's working well. Brand-new
Knotts boasts some 70 acres of adjacent woodland and its own
greenhouse. "My children are happy here," says Ms. Canady.
Indeed, what strikes a visitor is the amount of hugging going
on: The children hug their principal, they hug each other,
they hug their visitor. Knotts remains 78% minority, but has
achieved its 40/60 ratio in kindergarten.
   Another success story is Lincoln College Preparatory
Academy, cited by the U.S. Education Department as one of
Missouri's best secondary schools. It has a waiting list, and
school officials are considering creating another school like
it.
   Yet the majority of the district's schools remain
troubled. The district-wide dropout rate from seventh grade
on exceeds 40%. The daily absentee rate is 30%. Some schools
remain more than 90% minority. Some are plagued by gangs and
violence. Recently, on the grounds of a middle magnet school,
one youth shot and killed another while protecting his fancy
jacket against a hold-up attempt.
   Complicating matters, only a half-dozen of the 78 schools
are headed by principals who've been there more than two
years. "I've been here four years and have had four
principals," sighs one teacher, Kristina Kane. This, in turn,
hampers efforts to create a teacher-evaluation system.
   At the heart of the problem is "downtown": a sluggish and
bloated bureaucracy. Craig A. Cook, the district's
comptroller, will testify to that.
   With his close-cropped hair, his rapidfire delivery and an
office that displays the casing of a 105-millimeter tank
round, Mr. Cook looks like the retired Army officer he is. He
was comptroller for Fort Leavenworth, Kan., before coming
aboard three years ago. It took him only one day to discover
that he had traded a fort for a battlefield.
   He found an unsecured check-signing machine sitting on the
floor, more than 20,000 unpaid bills stacked on windowsills,
and ledgers wildly out of balance. At the end of his first
day, he was interrupted by two police officers investigating
a district employee who, it turned out, had embezzled several
hundred thousand dollars.
   Since that memorable initiation, Mr. Cook has reorganized
the accounting system, launched internal audits and designed
a set of procedure manuals. "This isn't Burger King," says a
plaque on the wall. "You do it my way." The district is
shaping up. Yet early last month, an exasperated Judge Clark
rapped it for, incredibly, failing to get enough textbooks
out to several schools months after the school year had
begun.
   To many Kansas Citians, the district has been down so long
that down seems like the norm. Some parents say nothing could
entice them to risk their children in the system.
   "Never," vows Cindy Waeckerle. "Every time I drive by
Southwest High school there are police cars out front." Her
two stepchildren are in a private prep school. And even
though her own children are still tiny, she and her husband
have their house up for sale so they can move into a suburban
school district across the state line in Kansas.
   Some other white parents, though, have been tempted to
take a second look. Barbara and Jim Borchert have switched
one of their two sons from Visitation Parish Catholic school
to the new Leroy Satchel Paige magnet school, a decision
especially striking because Mr. Borchert is on Visitation's
parish council. One reason was that son B.J. has a learning
disability and Visitation wasn't equipped to meet his
requirements. The Borcherts had been paying tutors $2,600 a
year to compensate. But the considerations went beyond money
to personal values.
   "It's very hard for a kid to come to terms with the real
world in a school like Visitation," says Mr. Borchert. He
says he still gets blunt questions from his friends: "How
could you send your kid to school with those people?" But
10-year-old B.J. sounds happy -- "it's a whole lot better
than Visitation, with a swimming pool and everything" -- and
his parents are convinced they made the right choice. Mrs.
Borchert now chairs Satchel Paige's advisory committee.
   Kansas City may soon begin to learn whether parents like
the Borcherts are anomalies -- or harbingers. Another, more
fundamental question is whether the fanciest of schools and
the best of intentions can, in fact, improve public-school
education. The answers will affect more than Kansas City.
   "A lot is riding on this nationally," says school board
member Paul Ballard. "If we fail, I think we fail every urban
public education system in the country."