GATX Says `91 Net
   Will Be `About Same'
   As $82.9 Million in `90
"We're delighted with where we're coming in" with the
latest year's results, said Chief Financial Officer John F.
Chlebowski Jr.
   The company's projection, which is based on preliminary
figures for the final period, suggests GATX's fourth-quarter
net will be about $21.3 million, down from the year-earlier's
$24.3 million, or $1.09 a primary share.
   In an interview, the two executives stressed that they
view the company's long-term prospects as strong, despite
recessionary pressures that currently squeeze its
aircraft-leasing segment.
   The company's results are primarily driven by earnings of
its big leasing operation, where multiyear leases have
historically protected GATX from short-term swings in the
economy.
   But to an extent, the parent's earnings fluctuate from
quarter to quarter, depending on when its GATX Capital
equipmentfinancing unit rings up gains from the sale of
railcars and aircraft at the end of their leases.
   "There's no question that (fourth-quarter) disposition
gains were down from the year-ago period," noted Mr. Glasser.
But such gains for all of 1991 will be "slightly ahead" of
the $48 million booked in 1990, "probably about $50 million,"
he noted.
   In October, GATX announced that it expected 1992 earnings
to decline from 1991; fewer pieces of equipment will be
coming off lease, it said, so asset-sale gains would be
diminished. Surprised investors reacted with a punishing
selloff, from which the stock has yet to fully recover.
   Mr. Glasser reiterated his feeling that "Wall Street's
reaction was vastly exaggerated." Despite the downturn, the
company expects 1992 "will still be an excellent year."
   He added, "As far as we're concerned, cash flow is the
most important part of our business -- very critical -- and
we expect 1992 to show near-record levels of cash flow." In
addition, he said, while the company doesn't make formal
projections, GATX expects earnings to "increase quite a bit
in 1993."