Technology  Health:
   Baxter's Unit
   Halts Version
   Of Heart Pump
   ----
   By David Stipp
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
In late trading on the New York Stock Exchange, Baxter
fell 12.5 cents to $36.375.
   The pumps are "ventricular assist devices," or VADs, which
don't replace the heart but take over its main chamber's
function of sending blood through the body. Simpler and less
invasive than artificial hearts, VADs are expected to be put
into widespread permanent use before mechanical hearts are.
Prototypes powered externally through wires or tubes that
penetrate the chest already are used experimentally to keep
heart-failure patients alive while waiting for heart
transplants.
   Novacor, based in Oakland, Calif., and Thermo
Cardiosystems Inc., Woburn, Mass., are the main competitors
in a race to develop "permanently" implantable VADs in which
power is transmitted magnetically through the skin,
dispensing with external consoles and protruding wires.
Physicians hope the devices will replace the need for heart
transplants in many cases.
   Novacor said it is continuing to develop its N100 pump,
which has been used in clinical trials with an external power
console as a "bridge to transplant." The N100, however,
hasn't yet been put through extensive reliability tests.
Novacor's discontinued device, the N120, was the only VAD so
far to have passed a two-year reliability test of continuous
running that the federal heart institute considered a
prerequisite for clinical tests of a permanently implantable
VAD, said Claude Lenfant, director of the institute. Clinical
tests of the permanently implantable N120 had been expected
to begin last fall, he added, but had been delayed by various
problems.
   Linda Strauss, a Novacor spokeswoman, said that "when we
had problems getting electronic components for the N120, it
gave us a chance to step back and reassess our overall goals.
We decided it didn't make sense to move forward with two
devices." Moreover, "the N120 was never intended to be a
widely available commercial product," she said.
   She added that two-year reliability tests of the N100
won't necessarily be required to launch clinical trials of
the permanently implantable version of the pump.
   Novacor said the temporary version of the N100, powered by
an external console, already has been used for some 370 days
in an individual awaiting a transplant.