Newhall Says Profit
   And Revenue Rose
   In Fourth Quarter
For the year, Newhall expects to report that net dropped
to about $29 million to $31 million, or 80 cents to 82 cents
a unit, on revenue of $151 million to $153 million. For 1990,
Newhall reported net income of $38.4 million, or $1.02 a
unit, on revenue of $193.9 million. Newhall is a land
resources company with operations in real estate,
agriculture, oil and gas.
   Mr. Lee said the company, set up as a limited partnership,
had improved fourth-quarter results largely because of three
significant land sales totaling $17 million. Those sales,
including the sale of 97 fully entitled residential lots to
Warmington Co., contributed about $8 million in net income,
or 22 cents a unit, Mr. Lee said in an interview.
   The decline in net for the year was a result "of the real
estate recession and, specifically, a lack of carryover of
homes in escrow when the year began," Mr. Lee said. He said
Newhall had a total of 286 homes in escrow at the beginning
of 1990; it had only 19 at the beginning of 1991. "We had
very little carry-over business in our home-building
operation as we came into 1991," he added.
   "But Newhall's financial position is strong," Mr. Lee
said, noting that the company ended the year with more than
$7 million in cash and no short-term debt. "Our cash flow has
been adequate to continue to construct new projects; to
maintain our ongoing infrastructure development as needed for
those new projects; to continue to work on obtaining
entitlements to develop our land; and also to help finance
outside purchasers of our land," the executive said.
   "While we do anticipate markets will start to improve,
we're not looking for 1992 to be a real strong year for us,"
Mr. Lee said. One reason, he said, is that the company
expects the recovery in the California real estate market to
be a slow one. In addition, it takes a long time to complete
real estate transactions in the current environment, he
added.
   If the recovery doesn't come along in 1992, "it's even
conceivable that our revenues and earnings could be lower"
this year. "We're not anticipating that at this time," Mr.
Lee said.
   Mr. Lee said the company's expectation is that real estate
markets will start to improve this year. "Hopefully, we are
finally seeing the bottom of this recession," he said.