Politics  Policy -- Campaign '92:
   Tsongas Is Counting on Strong Finish
   In New Hampshire to Keep Bid Alive
   ----
   By James M. Perry
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Mr. Tsongas -- some people say he's the nicest guy among
the Democratic candidates and almost everyone agrees he's the
wittiest -- isn't exactly melting the hearts of voters in
frigid New Hampshire. "Another Greek from Massachusetts isn't
exactly what central casting asked for," he says, alluding to
former Massachusetts Gov. Michael Dukakis, the Democratic
candidate in 1988.
   But Mr. Tsongas is more comfortable now, and he's running
second or third in most of the statewide polls measuring
voter sentiment ahead of New Hampshire's first-in-the-nation
primary Feb. 18.
   "I must do well here," Mr. Tsongas says. He says he must
finish first or second, or a very close third. "A distant
third is as bad as being fourth," he says.
   If he comes close here, he moves on to contests in Maine,
Washington, Colorado and Maryland. If he falters, he
concedes, his campaign is finished.
   The conventional wisdom, so often wrong in New Hampshire,
suggests the struggle for first place here is between Gov.
Bill Clinton of Arkansas and Sen. Bob Kerrey of Nebraska.
That leaves the pro-business Mr. Tsongas battling for third
place with Sen. Tom Harkin of Iowa, a traditional New Deal
liberal. Out of the running, almost everyone agrees, is
former Gov. Jerry Brown of California.
   But there's an odd thing happening here: While Mr. Clinton
is running ahead of the pack in the polls, and while Mr.
Kerrey is showing movement, there isn't much depth of
commitment to any of the Democratic candidates.
   "I watched the Democratic debate Sunday night," says
Robert Jeffers, a laid-off computer engineer who now runs a
modeltrain shop in Northwood, "and they didn't show me a
thing."
   A Boston Globe-WBZ-TV poll indicates almost 80% of the
Democratic respondents haven't conclusively decided whom to
vote for.
   Mr. Tsongas wants to win on his basic message -- that the
U.S. must rebuild its manufacturing industries to remain a
world economic power, and that he is the only candidate in
the race preaching this pro-business gospel. "Democrats are
perceived as anti-business," he says, "and that's true. Most
Democrats don't understand how a viable economy works."
   It is precisely the kind of message that should appeal to
Mr. Jeffers, the engineer reduced to selling toy trains. But
he hasn't picked it up yet.
   "If Paul Tsongas is eliminated from this race," says Paul
Tsongas, "there's no valid choice left for the Democrats."
Mr. Tsongas calls for an industrial policy in which the
government invests in emerging technologies, a relaxation of
antitrust laws, and a reduction in the capital-gains tax for
long-term investments in corporate America. He derides his
opponents who call for modest tax cuts for the middle class.
   He concedes that explaining these proposals to New
Hampshire voters, at a time when the airwaves are cluttered
with TV ads from a dozen or more candidates, is not easy.
   "I am asking the voters of New Hampshire to achieve a
level of sophistication no one else has asked from them
before," he says.
   But even if the Democratic voters -- there are 150,000 of
them in this state -- fail to rise to this level of
sophistication, there are other ways Mr. Tsongas might
survive the New Hampshire primary. One of them is that no one
will catch fire, and voters will turn instinctively and
subjectively to Mr. Tsongas, a familiar figure from
neighboring Massachusetts.
   Mr. Tsongas says his opponents have been patronizing him
lately, figuring he's no longer a significant factor here. He
thinks they may be making a mistake.