Law:
   Drexel Burnham and Milken Reach
   `Virtually Final' Accord on Civil Suits
   ----
   By Jonathan M. Moses
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
About $80 million of the settlement fund will go to fixed
creditors of Drexel. Thrift regulators and plaintiffs who
sued Mr. Milken have tentatively agreed to split the rest of
the pot so that about $500 million goes to the regulators and
$700 million to allegedly defrauded investors, individuals
familiar with the deal said.
   The settlement is designed to give Mr. Milken and others
"global peace," by barring litigation against them. But
lawyers said that Mr. Milken will have a chance to reassess
the deal after he sees how many class members agree to it. A
$50 million fund will be held back from the $1.3 billion deal
to cover any suits brought by plaintiffs who don't agree to
go along with the deal negotiated by the lead plaintiffs'
attorneys. If Mr. Milken feels his liability is greater than
that he can walk away from the deal.
   The deal won't prevent government agencies from taking
enforcement actions against former Drexel employees.
   Drexel's insurers are expected to contribute $100 million
to the settlement fund. The amounts to be paid by other
defendants, about $300 million, will not be made public.
Daniel Murdoch, a lawyer at the New York law firm Donovan
Leisure Newton  Irvine, who is coordinating payments by the
other defendants, said contributions were calculated by a
formula that considered the interests each employee had in
partnerships linked to various Drexel deals.
   Federal Judge Milton Pollack is scheduled to consider
approving the settlement at a March 6 hearing. He has
appointed George H. Heyman Jr., a former Shearson Lehman
Brothers Inc. executive, to monitor Mr. Milken as he
liquidates the partnerships to meet the terms of the deal.
   The judge, who has played an active role in pushing the
parties to settle, said he will hold additional hearings to
consider whether the deal is fair to the allegedly defrauded
investors. But he was skeptical of those who might want more
from Mr. Milken, saying, "You can't milk a cow dry."
   The money allocated for thrift regulators will reimburse
the government for the billions of dollars spent on rescuing
banks allegedly defrauded by Mr. Milken. One of those banks,
Columbia Savings  Loan, cost more than $1 billion to
restore, double the $500 million the government will get
under the terms of the settlement.
   The rest of the money will be divided among investors and
other plaintiffs, possibly including the insurance
commissioner of California, who filed a suit against Mr.
Milken and others yesterday. Many investors, including the
commissioner and investors in several California insurance
companies allegedly defrauded by Mr. Milken, are represented
by the law firm Milberg, Weiss, Bershad, Spechtrie  Lerach.
Melvyn Weiss, a partner in that law firm, said that under the
best of circumstances money won't go out to plaintiffs until
the fall of 1993 or the winter of 1994.
   Separately, voting by creditors on the Drexel bankruptcy
reorganization plan is said be overwhelmingly in favor of
approval. Voting ended yesterday and a bankruptcy court judge
will consider approving the plan at a hearing March 5.