International:
   Bundesbank
   Head Defends
   Tight Credit
   ---
   Schlesinger Dashes Hopes
   Germany Might Relax
   Monetary Policy Soon
   ----
   By Terence Roth
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
"On the monetary side," he said, "there are no indications
of a loosening. To the contrary, the information that we have
seen since {December} confirms extraordinarily strong credit
expansion without an equally strong rise in longterm capital
formation." But he held out hope for later this year, saying
he expects German inflation to begin retreating at some
point.
   "It can't be predicted how the rest of the year will go,"
he said, "whether we will have a recovery in western Germany
again, which we don't have for the moment. All of these
things have an impact on demand for credit and money."
   Mr. Schlesinger also criticized the European Community's
move toward monetary unity under a plan set at December's
summit in Maastricht, the Netherlands. He warned that the
plan could be put at risk by a lack of fiscal and social
policy consensus in the EC.
   Mr. Schlesinger's stance on interest rates is certain to
dash whatever hopes there have been for an easing in German
interest rates by mid-year, which could help keep Europe's
feeble economies out of recession.
   More evidence of economic fragility in Germany came
yesterday, when the government reported that western German
unemployment jumped to 7% in January from 6.5% in December
and eastern German joblessness hit 17%, up from 11.8% in
December. The government said earlier that western German
industrial output in December fell 3.1% from November.
   Such trends are stirring heated criticism of Bundesbank
policies among German economists. Government economic adviser
Ruediger Pohl, a member of the government's panel of
economists, recently said that a loosening by the Bundesbank
couldn't be expected until the second half of 1992, or after
the end of coming wage negotiations. But, he added, "a
continuing stagnation or even a recession in the German
economy could ultimately force the Bundesbank to act with
interest-rate reductions."
   The Bundesbank moves have forced France, Italy and
Britain, among others, to put off reducing their interest
rates because of fears that their currencies would suffer
against the mighty mark.
   Mr. Schlesinger won't confirm it, but he is said to have
preferred a milder increase than the half-point rise his
board voted in December. But now that it is done, he isn't
inclined to lower rates soon, and the benchmark Lombard and
discount rates are to remain for now at 9.75% and 8%, the
highest in more than 40 years.
   Mr. Schlesinger leads the Bundesbank at a time when it is
at the height of its power. Backed by a recently unified
country that has Europe's most important currency, biggest
industrial base and largest population, the stridently
independent central bank is exercising more influence than
ever over its neighbors' policies as Europe advances toward a
common currency by 1999 under the Maastricht plan.
   If that timetable sticks, the Bundesbank will yield its
status and authority to a common European central bank. For
some, that can't come too soon. French officials make no
secret that their push for a European central bank was partly
inspired by the aim of reducing the Bundesbank's almost
dictatorial role in European monetary policy.
   Still, Mr. Schlesinger thinks European monetary union will
be realized, though perhaps not on schedule. He has his
doubts about how many countries will be able to meet criteria
requiring that national inflation be no more than 1.5
percentage points above the average of the best three member
countries, that government borrowing not exceed 3% of gross
national product and that government debt not exceed 60% of
GNP.
   Mr. Schlesinger said German inflation should decline from
the current 4% by the end of this year, but he added that
many imponderables line the way, starting with rapidly rising
wages in eastern Germany that are outrunning production
gains.
   On currency matters, Bundesbank policy seems to square
better with that of the U.S. than with some of its European
neighbors. Bush administration officials might like lower
German rates to help promote European growth, but high German
and European interest rates also have depressed the dollar,
making U.S. exports more competitive.
   For the Bundesbank, the current rate of about 1.60 marks
to the dollar is acceptable, the central banker indicated.
"When you consider the swings . . . in the dollar last year,
between 1.85 and 1.45, we aren't doing too badly with 1.60
marks," he said. "I would say that this is the result of
market factors that one can and must accept."