LEISURE  ARTS:
   Law and Author: Grisham's Next Case
   ----
   By Joanne Kaufman
It is tempting to accept this expansive folksiness at full
face value until one remembers that Mr. Grisham, 37 years
old, once considered a career in politics, even served in the
Mississippi House of Representatives. It is tempting to see a
bit of Southern-boy bemusement at outrageous good fortune
here, until one considers that over the past year Mr. Grisham
has been doing the "aw shucks, this isn't going to change me"
maneuver with enough skill to risk losing his amateur
standing.
   But it's all good for business -- that's how Mr. Grisham
unabashedly describes his career as a novelist -- and good
for building an already substantial constituency. With the
success of "The Firm" (525,000 hard-cover copies in print;
2.2 million paperback) and "The Pelican Brief" (Doubleday,
371 pages, $22.50), which debuts Sunday at No. 1 on the New
York Times fiction best-seller list, Mr. Grisham is making a
bid to become the Tom Clancy of legal thrillers. "All I
aspire to do now is write . . . a high quality of commercial
fiction," he says, sitting in an office at his publisher's.
"That's all `The Firm' and `The Pelican Brief' are."
   "The Pelican Brief" centers on the assassination of two
ideologically disparate Supreme Court justices, and a pretty
law student's surprisingly successful attempt to identify the
culprit. What the novel lacks in style and nimble dialogue it
comfortably compensates for in narrative drive and its
satirical portrayal of high-ranking politicians.
   "When I was a lawyer," Mr. Grisham explains, "I spent a
lot of time in courtrooms and thought about killing judges .
. . he says kiddingly," the author adds hastily. "The good
thing about writing fiction is that you can get back at
people. I've gotten back at lawyers, prosecutors, judges, law
professors and politicians. I just line 'em up and shoot
'em."
   The son of a construction worker, Mr. Grisham grew up all
over the South, majored in accounting at Mississippi State
University and got his law degree at Ole Miss. "In the early
days I think I was a really good lawyer," says Mr. Grisham,
who specialized in criminal defense. "But you get tired of
helping a lot of people and not getting paid for it. And I
found myself a lot of times representing people I didn't
really like in cases that were boring. And once I started
writing the first book, the law couldn't measure up."
   Mr. Grisham wrote that first book, "A Time to Kill," a
courtroom drama set in a small Southern town, over a
three-year period whenever he could eke out time from his
practice. And he began to read the offerings of the
best-seller lists. "I wanted to see what the public would
buy," he says. "I was shocked. I was amazed at the truly bad
books. I would read something and I would say, `This is
awful. I can do better than this.'"
   Maybe so, but the public wouldn't buy "A Time to Kill,"
which was published quietly and buried quickly. Mr. Grisham
persevered and began writing another novel, taking as his
inspiration the experience of some law school cronies. "They
were top students -- I was not," he says. "And they went
through the interview game with big firms and it was fun to
hear them compare offers and perks and talk about how they
didn't really know the people who were recruiting them."
   The result was "The Firm," a novel about a hungry Harvard
law school graduate who accepts the high-octane offer of a
Memphis law office only to learn he's been married to the
mob. "It took two years," says Mr. Grisham. "I sent it out
Labor Day of 1989. And then all hell broke loose."
   First came the movie deal with Paramount, then the sale to
Doubleday. Reporters began converging on Oxford, Miss., a
place best known to non-Mississippi readers as William
Faulkner's hometown. In those first interviews, comparisons
were made between Mr. Grisham and Scott Turow, the then
reigning novelist-lawyer hyphenate. "If you want to compare
me to a guy who can command a first printing of a million
hard cover, I'm flattered," Mr. Grisham told them.
   Until Mr. Grisham and his wife pared down their
party-going, they had to suffer long conversations with
strangers about how Kevin Costner would be perfect as Mitch
McDeere, the protagonist of "The Firm." Or Patrick Swayze. Or
Tom Cruise, Mr. Grisham's personal choice.
   Until he unlisted his phone number, Mr. Grisham logged
calls from, among others, a Texas lawyer who wanted to
discuss selling the film rights to a novel he was about to
start. Until he fenced in his property, Mr. Grisham had to
endure being one of Oxford's prime tourist attractions.
   "There is no way to anticipate any of this," he says.
"It's almost surreal. `The Firm' was a one-shot trip to the
top. I didn't labor for years writing novels, gradually
expanding readership and suddenly I'm on the best-seller
list."
   In Mr. Grisham's case, he was on it and on it and on it.
Go ahead, ask him about his position on a regional or
national list on a given week in a given city. He'll tell
you, for example, about the week last summer when the
reissued "A Time to Kill" put in an appearance on the
Publishers Weekly trade paperback best-seller list, the week
in February when "The Firm" was No. 13 on the New York Times
best-seller list and No. 3 on the paperback list. "The next
thing we're watching," he says, "is if there's a chance `The
Pelican Brief' will be No. 1 on the hard-cover list the same
time `The Firm' is No. 1 in paperback. I watch that. I think
about it a lot."
   He's also thinking about "A Time to Kill," which will be
issued as a mass-market paperback this summer. "There's a
chance when it comes out it will be on the best-seller list,"
he says, "and I'll have three there at once."
   Mr. Grisham, who won't talk about money except to say --
several times -- that it isn't particularly important to him,
used the proceeds from the sale of film rights to "The Firm"
(reportedly $600,000) and his advance from Doubleday
(reportedly $1 million) to build a house and a pool and to
buy a 70-acre thoroughbred farm, a Chevy pickup truck and an
oak desk where he does his writing -- always thoroughly
outlined -- and works on the two or three legal cases he
still accepts. "There's a kind of fear about getting totally
cut off from the law because that's where the ideas come
from," he says.
   "Right now the ideas and words are coming fast," adds Mr.
'Grisham, who just signed a three-book contract with
Doubleday. "I want to get them while I'm thinking about them.
I look at this like Bo Jackson's career," he says, pointing
to a poster of the athlete. "One of these days Bo won't be
playing professional sports. I think this career will be over
too. It may be five years, it may be 25 years, but I can't
see me doing it when I'm 70."
   Some of Mr. Grisham's caution is based on a realistic fear
that the critics who were pulling for him when he was a
rookie will be gunning for him this time around. "A lot of
folks can't wait to carve me and the book up," he says. "
`The Pelican Brief' has already been trashed in Detroit and
Chicago. But my skin is pretty thick. As long as people are
buying the book that's all that matters. Why should I care
about one person's opinion in Detroit?"
   ---
   Ms. Kaufman, who is from Detroit, is a free-lance writer
based in New York.