Kuwait May Fall Short of OPEC Quota
   ---
   Speed in Reaching Output Target
   May Affect Oil Prices
   ----
   By Allanna Sullivan
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
But will war-ravaged Kuwait be able to do it? "God
willing," one Kuwaiti industry official at the OPEC meeting
said. Said another about the oil minister's pronouncements:
"I wish him luck -- it's almost impossible."
   Even officials of Bechtel Corp., which is overseeing the
reconstruction of Kuwait including its oil industry, are
concerned. "They're going to have to be very aggressive to
meet their targets," warned one of the construction company's
five senior managers appointed to oversee the work there.
   How quickly Kuwait regains its stature as an OPEC
heavyweight will have a major impact on global oil prices.
Sluggish oil demand world-wide has made it more difficult
than usual for the group's ministers to divvy up the
production pie. At their recent meeting in Geneva, they
appeared to be more divided than they have been for years,
and oil prices declined based on the shaky accord they
attained. That dissonance reigned even though the ministers
didn't have to deal with the anticipated reentry of Kuwait
into the OPEC production fold. "What are they going to do
when Kuwait and Iraq come back on the scene?" asked one
industry expert who was in Geneva to observe the meeting.
   Neither Kuwait nor its war foe Iraq have been pumping
significant quantities of oil into the market since Iraq
invaded Kuwait. Kuwait has been out of the market because of
the devastation of the war, and Iraq because of a United
Nations ban on its exports.
   As recently as the 1970s, Kuwait was pumping 3.5 million
barrels of oil a day. But the government choked back that
production partly to conserve the resource. Kuwaiti oil men
claim that before Saddam Hussein's invasion in August 1990,
the emirate was pumping 2.2 million barrels daily even though
its assigned quota was 1.5 million barrels. It was, in fact,
this overproduction that triggered Iraq's invasion.
   The Kuwaitis have been reworking their oil fields --
primarily the most profilic Burgan, Ahmadi and Magwa -- at a
rapid pace. The speed of the recovery, which will cost the
Kuwaitis as much as $13 billion for the oil industry and $2
billion for the petrochemical sector, will play a major role
in whether the disarray at last week's meeting will become
more pronounced at the next meeting in April.
   But although work in Kuwaiti oil fields is continuing
unabated, there are signs that the pace has fallen off
slightly. Goals to attain certain production targets have
slackened -- oil men there are currently behind schedule by
10,000 barrels of daily production, one Kuwaiti insider says.
   There is a desperate need for drilling rigs, the oil men
say. And stalled negotiations with British Petroleum over a
contract to reconfigure the Kuwaiti fields is slowing the
rate of recovery as well.
   Currently, Kuwait's total daily oil output is 620,000
barrels -- of which 490,000 barrels are being pumped within
Kuwait proper and the remainder from the so-called neutral
zone it shares with Saudi Arabia. And a hard-driving plan
calling for the workover of some wells and the drilling of
new ones is, by Mr. al Rqobah's reckoning, expected to
catapault the emirate's production to an average for the
second quarter of 812,000 barrels a day. That figure, which
includes Kuwait's share of the neutral zone, is the new
production ceiling allotted it at last week's OPEC meeting.
   Mr. al Rqobah is in a race against time. The longer it
takes Kuwait to get its industry up and running, the more
markets it loses to other producers and the less clout it
carries within the OPEC power structure, where muscle is
measured by oil output. Mr. al Rqobah has the support of
Kuwaiti oil men, who say they are under tremendous pressure
to meet the stringent targets set by the oil ministry. But
they also know that Mr. al Rqobah is trying to stake out as
big a piece of OPEC's production pie as he can. "He's just
trying to hold onto his quota," one Kuwaiti said.
   To meet Mr. al Rqobah's targets, the Kuwaitis need as many
as 20 drilling rigs working the fields. At present, there are
only 10 rigs in the emirate, and one is so huge it isn't
being used to drill the relatively shallow wells. Another rig
is on its way from Egypt, and the oil men are looking to
lease some already in the Persian Gulf area.
   In addition, only four to six of the gathering centers
have been rebuilt. Before the war, there were 27 of these
facilities that separate oil from gas and then route them to
the appropriate destinations. The centers are considered
critical because all oil produced in the fields must flow
through them.
   Many of these centers are still twisted hulks of metal
lying out in the desert. Bechtel officials say they are
cannibalizing the devastated facilities to rebuild some of
the others.
   A reconfiguration of the Kuwaiti oil fields currently
under way could return output to two million barrels a day by
the end of 1993. But attaining that goal will depend to some
extent on how quickly they can obtain an agreement with BP.
Because Kuwaiti oil wells flowed prolifically with little
mechanical prompting before the damage by the Iraqis, the oil
men there say they haven't the sophistication needed to do
the best job of reconfiguring the fields.
   Negotiations have been dragging on for almost six months,
with the oil company asking unusually high fees for its
services, the Kuwaitis say. The British oil company is an
especially good candidate to help rework Kuwait's oil fields.
BP was very active there before the nationalization of the
oil industry, and it has retained much of the geological
data. BP declined to comment other than to acknowledge that
"talks have been going on for quite some time."