Enterprise:
   Restaurant Chain Tries to Cater to Two Types of Taste
   ---
   Hooters Continues Growing Beyond
   Sun Belt Despite Charges of Sexism
   ----
   By Eugene Carlson
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The critics accuse the chain of fostering a climate in
which sexual harassment can thrive. "The name should be
changed because of the derogatory references to human
anatomy," says Claudia Plein, the leader of a Fairfax, Va.,
group founded to protest the opening of a Hooters outlet
there.
   For owners prepared for the opposition, there are still
big profits to be made from business concepts that some
assail as sexist, even in the 1990s. From its birth in 1983
in Clearwater, Fla., Hooters has grown into a nationwide
network of 68 casual eateries in 16 states; about two-thirds
of them are franchises, each representing an investment of
about $400,000 plus the cost of the lease.
   The Hooters system expects to reach 100 restaurants by the
end of this year and 200 by the end of 1994, says Mike
McNeil, marketing vice president of Hooter's of America Inc.,
now based in Atlanta. System-wide sales, reflecting
company-owned units as well as outlets owned by 15
franchisees, totaled $100 million for 1991, the company says.
   Jim Cornett 3rd, Hooters' franchisee in Richmond, Va.,
says his restaurant is serving an average of 500 customers a
day, with waiting lines at lunch and dinner. After nine weeks
of operation, "we're still close to our opening business
volume, and that's unusual in any restaurant," he says.
   Hooters flaunts its intentionally naughty name at every
turn. The chain sold $5 million of Hooters T-shirts, hats,
calendars and other items last year, and is sponsoring a
"Hooters 500" stock-car race this fall in Atlanta. Mr. McNeil
says the chain's approach to sex is no different from Sports
Illustrated magazine's publishing an annual "swimsuit" issue.
The magazine's readers "aren't checking out those girls' SAT
scores," he says. He adds that Hooters "doesn't cross the
line of what the majority of people think is acceptable."
   All the same, at a time that national concern over men's
sexual behavior has reached fever pitch, the chain's
"boys-will-be-boys" attitude outrages feminists. Kim Gandy,
executive vice president of the National Organization for
Women, a women's advocacy group based in Washington, D.C.,
says Hooters "contributes to an atmosphere of sexual
harassment," extending the aura of many night clubs and strip
joints to the neighborhood cafe.
   Protests focusing on Hooters' image have picked up as the
chain has begun aggressive expansion beyond its Sun Belt
base. In Fairfax, a group that includes the mayor and city
council members collected 200 signatures on an anti-Hooters
petition. In addition to requesting a name change for
Hooters, the group said employees should be permitted to wear
uniforms "reflective of a basic family atmosphere." The
outcry, and attendant publicity, helped attract a
standing-room-only crowd to the restaurant's opening on St.
Patrick's Day.
   In Bay City, Mich., Sally LeVasseur says she's opposed to
the location of a Hooters there, in part "because of the way
they exploit women." Ms. LeVasseur says she has never been to
a Hooters; she formed her opinion after reading an editorial
in a trade magazine. ("So called `beach style' concepts are
brashly reinforcing the image of women as sex objects first,
intelligent people second," wrote Rick Van Warner, editor of
Nation's Restaurant News, in the January editorial.)
   From the chain's standpoint, the protests are much ado
about little, "The image is R, but the reality is PG," says
the company's Mr. McNeil. He says Hooters tries to
counterbalance its leering trademark -- an owl with two very
large, saucer-shaped eyes -- with squeaky-clean, brightly lit
restaurants where grandmothers and Little Leaguers, as well
as chauvinist pigs, might feel comfortable.
   "The name is very offensive, but once you get there, it's
not so bad," says Susan Plummer, a United Airlines flight
attendant based in Washington, D.C., who reluctantly agreed
to meet a male friend at the Hooters in Baltimore.
   It's especially not so bad for landlords, who know that
sex appeal helps pay the rent. "They do a first-rate job,
they pay their rent, and they participate in the community,"
says Kathy Lickteig, a spokesman for Rouse Co., a Columbia,
Md., manager of shopping centers. A Rouse subsidiary manages
Baltimore's Inner Harbor market, where Hooters replaced
another restaurant last year and promptly tripled the sales
of its predecessor, according to Rouse.
   Like other Hooters outlets, the Baltimore restaurant
features rustic pine floors and tables, spicy chicken wings,
and beer by the pitcher. TV monitors run nonstop sports
videos, and the background music is golden oldies from the
1960s. The capacity crowd on a recent Monday night included
men in an equal mix of business suits and jeans, a half-dozen
female patrons and the Pennsylvania State University lacrosse
team, winding down after a game.
   "The only market we don't appeal to is teen-agers," says
Ed Droste, one of the firm's six founders.
   The arrival of Hooters in Baltimore's most prestigious
retail showplace brought concerned inquiries from the mayor,
city council and chamber of commerce, protests from feminists
and an outpouring of media coverage that the restaurateurs
loved. As a lease condition, Hooters agreed to remove some of
the sexual double entendres from its menu, as well as the
"More than a mouthful" motto that waitresses in most Hooters
outlets wear on their cut-off T-shirts. (A company executive
insists that the motto refers to Hooters' hamburgers.)
   By itself, the Hooter Girl uniform -- running shoes,
bright-orange running shorts and tiny T-shirts that expose a
lot of midriff -- would scarcely turn a head in any shopping
mall. "You can go to the park at noon and see joggers dressed
like that -- it's no big deal," says Hooters customer Mark
Hervig of Hampton, Va.
   In any case, to soften the bimbo image, the chain asks its
waitresses (it never hires men as waiters) to volunteer in
local charity drives. And it piggybacks on celebrities
wherever possible. Photos of athletes and actors with Hooter
girls adorn every restaurant. Also, Hooters practices
relentless good humor. A blurb on the menu claims that the
company's original owners "were arrested for impersonating
restaurateurs. There were no indictments, but the stigma
lingers on."
   But Kate Flitner, a Laramie, Wyo., school teacher, isn't
appeased. "These women are objectifying themselves, they are
complicit," she says, eyeing Baltimore's Hooter Girls. "It's
still a meat market, and we're the ones for sale."