International:
   New Price Plan
   Goes Into Effect
   For Russians
   ---
   Impact Is Partially Delayed
   By Holiday Store Hours;
   Price-Fixing Creeps In
   ----
   By Laurie Hays
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Russian President Boris Yeltsin hopes that freeing prices
will breathe new life into the moribund economy. Starting
yesterday, stores could charge whatever they saw fit for all
but a special list of goods. The exempted items included
breads, milk, children's goods, medicines, gasoline and
electricity. The government predicted that prices could
triple for most consumer goods, and some other estimates
warned of even bigger increases.
   The higher prices are meant to bring more products to
shops and to stimulate production. Defenders say free prices
are a logical starting point for a move to a free market,
which they say will be followed quickly by privatization of
businesses.
   Among stores that were open, most shelves remained all but
bare. The daily newspaper Izvestia said goods were missing
because warehouses, puzzled at how to set the new prices, had
hardly delivered anything at the end of last year.
   To provide some protection against the increases, groups
such as retirees, students and the handicapped will receive
special treatment. This will include soup kitchens, increased
government stipends and access to special discount stores.
   Prices in the former Soviet Union had been kept
artificially low and bear little relationship to supply and
demand, let alone to production costs.
   If entrepreneurial competition now begins following the
collapse of the U.S.S.R., Mr. Yeltsin will reap praise for
trying something that former Soviet President Mikhail
Gorbachev was never able to bring himself to do. If Mr.
Yeltsin's effort fails, independent Russia's economic
collapse is likely to accelerate, making Mr. Yeltsin's own
political future perilous.
   Early indications aren't reassuring. Some producers seemed
to confirm the worst fears of economists by showing a greater
desire to fix prices than to compete. The instinct runs deep
after 70 years of the government deciding everything from the
cost of raw materials to salaries. Critics of Mr. Yeltsin's
move have argued that freeing prices when almost all
producers remain government-owned monopolies won't work.
   Although most foodstuffs tripled in price yesterday and
some, such as carrots and boiled sausages, were five times
higher than in 1991, many Russians have large ruble savings
that will enable them to buy -- at least in the short term.
In addition, many people stockpiled food over the past
several months. Wages are expected to rise in the future to
provide consumers with more cash.
   Mr. Yeltsin has predicted that after six to eight hard
months, his reforms will begin to raise the standard of
living. But critics contend there is no comprehensive
economic reform plan ready to be implemented, and that the
new prices are more likely to exacerbate problems than lead
to solutions.
   The most pessimistic of these critics foresee crowds
taking to the streets in organized protests against the
increasing hardship of life in Russia.