Commodities:
   Wheat Prices Are Seen Continuing Their Climb
   On Government Projection of Shrinking Supplies
   ----
   By Scott Kilman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Some analysts expect the wheat rally to continue even
though prices are approaching the highs reached in 1989.
After the close of trading yesterday, the Agriculture
Department reported that it expects U.S. wheat supplies by
May 31 to shrink to 390 million bushels, the tightest supply
since May 1973.
   The May 31 stockpile represents what is available in the
U.S. before farmers begin to harvest wheat in June,
replenishing supplies. The so-called ending stockpile is
expected to be less than half its May 1991 level.
   U.S. bakers have said in recent weeks that they are
raising bread prices to reflect the rising price of wheat.
Some farm groups have blasted the move because wheat is a
relatively small component in the cost of making bread.
   Supply is tight in part because the winter wheat harvest
was poor last year in much of the Midwest, where persistent
spring rains caused widespread plant disease. Stockpiles will
probably remain tight in the foreseeable future because many
Midwest farmers were too discouraged to plant wheat again in
the fall.
   Even though wheat prices were rising during the planting
season, farmers planted only about 50.2 million acres to
winter wheat varieties -- about 2% fewer acres than the
previous year. Several analysts had expected wheat farmers to
plant about four million acres more.
   "The wheat situation is approaching an explosive
situation," said Paul Prentice, president of Farm Sector
Economics Inc., Colorado Springs, Colo.
   Corn prices are also expected to rise today because the
Agriculture Department projected that the corn supply before
this year's fall harvest will shrink to 1.076 billion
bushels, down about 29% from last year's.
   Among other things, analysts expect more corn to be
consumed by livestock this year because hog and cattle
producers are expanding their herds.
   The Agriculture Department also released its final
estimate of the 1991 corn harvest. The department pegged the
harvest at 7.47 billion bushels, down about 6% from a year
earlier. The department's final estimate of the 1991 soybean
harvest is 1.99 billion bushels.
   The price of some grain futures contracts also rose
yesterday in the wake of a government report that a weather
phenomenon known as El Nino has formed in the Pacific Ocean.
   Such a pocket of warm air and water can have a big impact
on U.S. weather, but grain traders are divided over what it
will be. Some traders are speculating that El Nino can
potentially spark a drought in the farm belt, while others
say the connection is weak.
   The National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration said
this is the first such system to develop in five years.
   In other commodity markets yesterday:
                                                                                                       

   ENERGY: Led by heating oil, petroleum futures surged on
forecasts of colder weather and prospects of production cuts
by the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries. Heating
oil for February delivery jumped 3.06 cents a gallon to
settle at 54.60 cents. Gasoline futures also were up, but
trailed heating oil. Continuing a rally that began Friday,
February crude oil advanced 56 cents a barrel to $18.79. Oil
analysts cited several factors behind the rise in crude
prices, including Venezuela's announcement Friday that it
would reduce its oil production by 50,000 barrels a day
immediately to send a "signal" to oil markets. "Maybe this
will shame the other OPEC producers into cutting their
production as well," said Peter Beutel of the Pegasus
Econometric Group. Also helping firm prices yesterday was a
Middle East Economic Survey report that Saudi Arabia possibly
would agree to an immediate reduction in OPEC output at
OPEC's Feb. 12 meeting, rather than waiting until the second
quarter.
                                                                                                       

   PRECIOUS METALS: Platinum prices weakened on news of a
strike settlement at South Africa's Impala Platinum Ltd.
Platinum for January delivery and the actively traded April
contract both ended at $333.60 an ounce, down $6.50. Impala,
the world's second largest platinum producer, said yesterday
that production had resumed at two operations that had been
closed by a strike last week. The company's Bafokeng North
platinum mine and the Mineral Processing Plant were closed
Friday after 10,000 workers stayed away from work to protest
the dismissal of 1,800 miners who participated last Monday in
a protest about shift schedules. An Impala spokesman said,
however, that absenteeism continued to be high at the
Bafokeng North mine, which accounts for 25% of Impala's
platinum production.
                                                                                                       

   ORANGE JUICE: Futures prices rose on prospects of cold
weather in Florida over the next week. Orange juice for
January delivery advanced 5.15 cents a pound to $1.595; the
actively traded March contract rose five cents to $1.5845.
Temperatures in Florida, which have been above normal
recently, are expected to drop into the upper 30s tomorrow
and fall to the 28-to-35 degree range by Friday, said Peter
Leavitt, executive vice president of Weather Services Corp.
of Bedford, Mass. But the cold spell won't be a threat to the
orange crop unless the temperature stays at the lowest end of
the expected range for several hours, he noted. Nonetheless,
the possibility of cold weather prompted a rush of
short-covering yesterday, said Celeste Georgakis, senior
analyst at Cargill Investor Services. Traders cover their
short positions, or bets the price will fall, by buying
offsetting contracts.
                                                                                                       

   COTTON: Futures prices fell. Cotton for March delivery
ended at 56.57 cents a pound, down 1.23 cents. Ernest Simon,
cotton specialist at Prudential Securities, cited traders'
fears that China might cancel orders for as much as 600,000
bales. Carolyn Whitton, leader of international commodity
analysis for the Agriculture Department's Economic Research
Service, said China usually produces less cotton than it
consumes but that this year's production is well above the
level of the country's needs. If China cancels orders, she
said, it would probably be because the price of cotton has
fallen sharply since the orders were placed. Prices also fell
yesterday in anticipation of a bearish Agriculture Department
report on world cotton supply and demand, which was issued
yesterday afternoon. The government's estimate of world
production was raised to 91.8 million bales from 90.5 million
estimated in December. The crop in China accounted for much
of the increase. The U.S. export estimate was lowered by
400,000 bales to 6.8 million. On Friday, the government
reduced its U.S. production estimate by 3% to 17.5 million
bales, which was within analysts' expectations. The October
freeze in Texas caused more damage than initially believed,
decreasing yields and quality.