Chemical Firms Post Mixed Results; Gain
   By Monsanto Misses 4th-Period Forecast
   ----
   By Carlee R. Scott
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Monsanto's shares closed at $66.75 a share, down $2.375,
in New York Stock Exchange trading yesterday. Its earnings
amounted to 53 cents a share, compared with analysts'
expectations of 55 to 60 cents a share.
   Sales for the quarter fell 3% to $2.13 billion from $2.20
billion.
   Monsanto, based in St. Louis, said the quarter was
"reasonably strong" given the economic environment and
reflected "strong performance by most of our key products."
The company's agricultural unit reported an operating loss of
$29 million, reflecting seasonably low herbicide sales. At
the company's chemicals unit, operating income rose sharply
to $56 million from $21 million, in spite of lower sales
volume from continuing operations. This was due, the company
said, to lower raw materials costs and to cost reductions
that began in the previous year.
   Operating earnings at the company's Fisher Controls unit
fell 23%, partly because of lower sales volume; and the
NutraSweet Co. unit reported higher earnings because of
improved sales volume and lower manufacturing costs.
   Earnings for pharmaceuticals soared 79% on a 13% sales
increase. The company said business was strong, with record
sales of Calan brand calcium channel blocker, Cytotec ulcer
preventive drug and Canderel table top sweetener.
   Air Products  Chemicals, based in Allentown, Pa., said
sales rose to $760.5 million from $724.6 million in its first
quarter, ended Dec. 31. The company said the report reflects
continued strong performance by its gases and chemicals
businesses and "demonstrates the strength and stability of
our portfolio in soft economic conditions."
   The company said operating income at its industrial gases
segment rose 9% on higher results in world-wide merchant and
on-site businesses. Air Products said volumes increased,
particularly in the U.S., and liquid oxygen and nitrogen
prices continued to improve. Air Products said its chemicals
sales rose 2% and operating income increased 3%, reflecting
strong volume in most of its product lines.
   The environmental and energy systems businesses reflected
continued strong operations at the four operating facilities;
and the equipment and technology segment reported higher
sales and operating income, reflecting high global demand for
the company's liquefied natural gas and gas separation
equipment.
   Sterling Chemicals, based in Houston, said fiscal
first-quarter results were hurt by lower prices and margins
for styrene monomer, a petrochemical product. The company
also said a scheduled closing of its facilities that make
acrylonitrile and derivative products caused a substantial
reduction in plant utilization for the quarter. Revenue for
the quarter fell 36% to $115.9 million from $182.4 million.
   During the quarter, Sterling said, styrene margins
continued to decline because of oversupply and reduced demand
resulting from the world-wide economic slowdown. The company
said recently announced price increases, declining raw
material prices and voluntary extension of construction time
for another producer's new facility are signs that styrene
margin erosion may be easing. Sterling said, however, that
given the current recession and overcapacity, it doesn't
expect significant margin improvement in styrene "for quite
some time."
   ---
                        1991               1990
                     in      per        in      per     %
                  millions   share   millions   share   chg.
                                                                                                       

                    QUARTER NET INCOME
                                                                                                       

 Monsanto .......   $66      $0.53     c$31     $0.27    ..
 Air Products-d .    64.2     1.14      b60.6    1.09    ..
 Sterling-d .....      .7      .01       24.1     .44    ..

                            YEAR
                                                                                                       

 Monsanto ....... a$296      $2.33    c$546     $4.23    ..
                                                                                                       

   a-Includes restructuring charges of $325 million, $2.54 a
share. b-Includes an after-tax gain of $3.3 million, 6 cents
a share from settlement of certain pension obligations.
c-Includes $20 million in after-tax gains in the quarter and
$56 million in the year from the divestiture of certain
businesses. d-First quarter.