Who's News:
   IBM and Apple
   Tap Executive
   In Joint Venture
   ---
   Guglielmi to Head Key Unit
   Despite Mixed Results
   In Software at Big Blue
   ----
   By Paul B. Carroll
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Mr. Guglielmi's reputation also suffers because he is one
of the main IBM executives responsible for OS/2, a
personal-computer operating system. OS/2's technology is
good, software developers said, and IBM has been pushing it
hard, but it has languished for so long that it is given
little chance of overcoming the huge lead that belongs to
Microsoft Corp.'s Windows product.
   In the joint venture, Mr. Guglielmi will run Taligent,
whose mission is to produce a next-generation
personal-computer operating system. His appointment is
expected to be announced as early as next week, the industry
executives said.
   The worry in the PC industry is that IBM will turn its
joint venture with Apple into a typical IBM marketing effort
and that bureaucracy could slow the pace of innovation, said
Esther Dyson, editor of Release 1.0, an industry newsletter.
The appointment of Mr. Guglielmi, a traditional IBM marketing
type, "would certainly confirm everyone's worst suspicions,"
she said.
   Ms. Dyson said she thinks Mr. Guglielmi got a bum rap on
both OfficeVision and OS/2; she blames the IBM bureaucracy
for smothering both projects. Mr. Guglielmi is known inside
IBM as a personal favorite of Chairman John F. Akers. A
spokesman for IBM, Armonk, N.Y., added that, before getting
involved in personal-computer software, Mr. Guglielmi had
been involved with a string of successes, including the
extremely profitable 4300 line of minicomputers. The
spokesman declined to comment beyond that. A spokeswoman for
Apple, Cupertino, Calif., didn't return a call seeking
comment.
   The appointment of Mr. Guglielmi appears partly intended
to balance the appointment of an Apple executive, Ed Birss,
as Taligent's chief operating officer. It also appears
designed to provide a balance of talents at the top, with Mr.
Guglielmi providing the marketing background while Mr. Birss
provides the technical expertise.
   Coming 4 1/2 months after Taligent was announced, though,
the appointment will still leave the impression that IBM and
Apple continue to joust over details. The companies have yet
to announce a head for their other major software venture,
Kaleida. In addition, Mr. Guglielmi's appointment comes only
after another candidate was widely considered to have the
job, before being undercut by Apple engineers.
   David Liddle, the well-regarded founder of Metaphor
Computer Systems Inc., a medium-sized software company
acquired by IBM, had appeared for several weeks to be the
front-runner. He lost out apparently because he was both a
member of the IBM camp and a strong technical person. The
Apple engineers, who have already done the core of the work
that will become the joint venture's operating system,
worried about letting someone from IBM have so much influence
over the writing of the actual code, industry executives have
said. Mr. Guglielmi is more likely to delegate such matters.