REVIEW  OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   Drawing the Pyongyang Line
Israeli intelligence had disclosed that the Dae Hung Ho as
well as a second North Korean ship, the Dae Hung Dan, were en
route to either Syria or Iran and were believed to be
carrying new Scuds. These are missiles enhanced with more
precise, longer-range delivery systems than those launched by
Iraq against Israel and Saudi Arabia during the Gulf War.
   It's hard to accept the explanation of Defense Department
spokesman Pete Williams that the U.S. located the first ship
in the Indian Ocean, but then lost it again: "We were
certainly looking for it. I don't know why we never found
it." This is America's high-tech Navy?
   Our suspicion is that Washington, trying right now to
chivvy Pyongyang toward a nuclear-disarmament deal, simply
didn't want to make waves by stopping that ship. Our own
sources suggest that, as do Mr. Williams's further comments.
"We were aware of the ship, curious about where it was
going," he said, "but there was a limit to what we could have
done."
   It is unlikely the U.S. would have acted even if these
ships had sent up flares en route and passed out T-shirts.
There is a U.N. arms embargo against Iraq, but not against
Syria or Iran, however much mischief-making they might have
in mind. So there was a good excuse for inaction.
   But what about any prospects that North Korea will comply
with the accords of the U.N.'s International Atomic Energy
Agency? That process is inching forward, sending out SOS
signals as it goes. Pyongyang signed a deal in January with
the IAEA that would in theory permit inspections of North
Korean nuclear facilities, but set no timetable. Pyongyang
signed another deal yesterday with Seoul to set up a
North-South Korean commission to monitor a ban on nuclear
arms on the Korean peninsula. But among the unresolved
details: The North wants access to all suspected nuclear
sites in the South, but offers access to only one complex in
the North.
   Pyongyang's credibility has bombed often. In recent years
it has reneged on billions of dollars' worth of foreign debt
and lied about its terrorist attacks on the South. Now it is
denying that it just delivered missiles to Iran. The U.S.,
which has no diplomatic relations with North Korea, wants to
hurry the nuclear accords along because observers such as CIA
chief Gates have warned that North Korea is rushing to
stockpile weapons-grade plutonium that it can hide before
inspection crews arrive.
   The question for U.S. policy makers is what they intend to
do should North Korea sign all the nuclear accords and then
-- in the tightly controlled recesses of Kim's Stalinist
kingdom -- violate them.
   Not until the collapse of Mr. Kim's regime is there any
chance that North Korea can be a friendly and remotely
trustworthy nation. Until that day, the best way to deter
North Korea from savaging anyone else is to send the clear
message that if North Korea makes the slightest move toward
violating the free world's interests, North Korea will get
hurt. There are political risks in stopping Scud shipments.
But appeasement is riskier still.
   The second North Korean ship is still out there somewhere.
If President Bush believes the U.S. can locate and stop such
ships only by way of U.N. resolutions, then it's time to
float such a resolution sending North Korea the message that
arms traffic is an impermissible way of shoring up either its
ugly alliances or its emaciated economy. There might be
objections from such quarters as China, given Beijing's
embarrassing position as another covert arms purveyor to the
Middle East. But if America's goal is to promote world peace,
then American policy makers have got to find ways to draw the
line long before nations such as Iraq or North Korea push
their luck to the point where they can be stopped only by
all-out war.