BASF to Acquire
   Polystyrene Line
   Owned by Mobil
   ----
   By Robert Johnson
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
BASF's proposed acquisition, at what analysts say is a
premium price, comes at a time of flat demand for polystyrene
-- the much-maligned substance used in disposable coffee cups
and some fast-food packaging. Terms weren't disclosed, and
neither company would comment on analysts' estimates of the
sale price.
   Some fast-food makers have reduced or stopped using
polystyrene in recent years, and environmentalists have put
pressure on that industry and others to switch to packaging
and container materials that more readily decompose after
disposal.
   Based in Ludwigshafen, Germany, BASF said it's already the
largest producer of polystyrene in Western Europe. BASF also
manufactures in South Korea, and Mobil has been licensing
BASF's technology to make polystyrene since 1981.
   BASF's planned expansion in the U.S. coincides with rumors
that several foreign chemical makers are shopping for initial
or additional acquisitions in the U.S. The polystyrene
purchase may be timely because prices of raw materials for
the product have been low recently.
   "This is one of what will be several bottom-of-the-cycle
shifts of assets as certain companies re-position themselves
and focus on particular industries and markets," said James
Wilbur, an analyst at Smith Barney, Harris Upham  Co.
   Mobil, an oil company based in Fairfax, Va., said the
proposed transaction won't affect its chemical unit's
polystyrene fabricating business, which makes cups, among
many other products. The proposed transaction also doesn't
include production of raw materials for polystyrene; Mobil
doesn't make them, said a spokesman.
   The long-term outlook for polystyrene is strong, said
Smith Barney's Mr. Wilbur. "The product is under a lot of
pressure, but I don't see people staying away from video
stores that use those polystyrene containers for movies, or
not going on picnics anymore and using utensils made from
this material," he said.
   The Mobil resin manufacturing business -- which turns raw
materials into small polystyrene pellets used to make
thousands of products -- has an annual capacity of more than
620 million pounds. Total U.S. manufacturing capacity is
about 6.6 billion pounds, according to analysts.
   Mobil said the proposed transaction is subject to
regulatory clearance and approval from directors of both
companies. It said plans call for the sale to be completed in
the second quarter of this year.
   In late trading on the New York Stock Exchange yesterday,
Mobil fell 25 cents to $66.625.