Germany `Manages' Away an Asset
   ----
   By Amity Shlaes
In 1991, a record 256,112 foreigners applied for asylum in
Germany, an increase of 32.7% over 1990. And that figure does
not include the several hundred thousand ethnic Germans who
have also arrived in Germany recently. The result has been
overt xenophobia strong enough to win international press and
force the government to re-evaluate its "foreigner problem."
   The German problem is really a European one. With their
economies in shambles and regional violence looming, many
Eastern Europeans dream of moving westward. They dream in the
same spirit as, at the turn of the century, Europeans dreamed
of America. Europe faces a choice: treat the new arrivals as
burdens or assets. If Europe chooses the former, it must face
social unrest and the political extremism that grows from it.
   "There is hostility to foreigners here," says Peter
Meisel, an official who works with foreigners in the Saxon
capital of Dresden, in what used to be East Germany. "But you
have to see it in real terms. It is not a German or a Saxon
problem. It is an international problem now."
   To spend an hour by Mr. Smiljanic's side at the
Porschendorf center is to watch a bureaucracy functioning on
overload. Mr. Smiljanic stands in an airless hall, his papers
in hand, hoping a social worker will stop to hear him out.
Next door, 25 Yugoslavs argue at the top of their lungs with
a lone official. They want the freedom to build lives in
Germany's western states. But federal government rules say
they must resettle here, in grimy, job-poor Saxony. Bonn's
purpose is to distribute refugees evenly throughout Germany,
but that nicety is lost on the foreigners. "Passports],"
shouts a father whose baby bounces on his wife's shoulder
behind him. "You can have your passport back," the embattled
social worker shouts. "But then you have to go home."
   Control has long been the German watchword for managing
immigrants. Under German law, a German is someone who has
German blood -- anyone else is a "foreigner" and faces
considerable barriers to citizenship. But the German
constitution also enshrines the right to political asylum.
Sri Lankans, Kurds, Ethiopians and now, East Europeans
applying for asylum fill resettlement centers across the
nation. The federal government frequently takes years to make
individual decisions.
   While the government decides, asylum candidates are
entitled to some $6,250 annually in food, shelter, clothing
-- but not, frequently, to the right to work. In Saxony
alone, there are 7,234 asylum candidates, housed at some 70
sites. On those 7,234 pending cases, ambivalent officials had
by December made only three decisions: they accepted one
Iraqi and sent home an Indian and a Romanian.
   For citizens of a state like Saxony, where pensioners
receive as little as $450 a month, this handout policy is
hard to take. Beyond the asylum candidates, other foreigners
fill Saxony -- "Eastern guestworkers" who came years ago to
what was East Germany from Vietnam; Soviet Jews; and
unregistered immigrants who live in Germany illegally.
   All these groups occupy apartments in a region with a
housing shortage so acute the governor's ministers have to
camp out in the guestrooms of his residence. Officially,
unemployment is 11%, but in reality it is far higher, with
old communist firms breaking up and laying off up to 90% of
their workers. Still in shock over the dissolution of their
old regime, eastern Germans worry that foreigners who benefit
from public largess are cutting away from their own share of
the federal pie.
   The result of the pie mentality has been an upturn in
violence. After skinheads and neo-Nazis attacked a dormitory
of guestworkers in the small Saxon town of Hoyerswerda last
fall, the government cleared the town of foreigners and opted
to spend more money: more than $1 million to build gates and
keep guards at dormitories elsewhere in the state.
   Saxony's governor, Kurt Biedenkopf, is working to lighten
the state's load of asylum candidates: "It's a political
decision which we are trying to correct." Showing typical
inconsistency on the issue, he also speaks of a likely labor
shortage in coming years. His staff are quick to point out
that Saxony's neo-Nazis are more active than those in the
west because of economic hardship.
   The federal government has produced a massive campaign to
assure the world that today's anti-Turk window-busting and
swastika parades will not build to a repeat of the nation's
past. On the anniversary of the Wannsee conference at which
Nazi leaders planned the Holocaust, parliament president Rita
Suessmuth urged citizens: "Let's not kid ourselves] All
experience shows: What we repress will catch up with us. No
one can elude his history."
   But neither Mrs. Suessmuth, nor most other Germans are
willing to consider another option: giving up the German
obsession with control, lowering subsidies, and allowing new
arrivals to make their own way in the country. "The situation
has changed but the policy hasn't," says Marita
Schieferdecker-Adolph, who works for the city of Dresden
helping foreigners. "They still say `Germany is not an
immigration country.'" She notes an ugly pecking order that
has developed throughout Germany -- West Germans pick on
Eastern Germans, who in turn pick on refugees. She makes a
philosophical point: "Germany just doesn't get the notion
that you need new people."
   Some argue that that feeling is an odd one, given
Germany's history. After the annihilation of Germany's Jews
and Gypsies, many Germans publicly -- and perhaps
hypocritically-mourned the loss of the diversity those groups
provided. Guest-workers -- Italians, Turks and Yugoslavians
who arrived in the 1960s -- helped to fuel Germany's
"Economic Miracle." "In the restaurant business, foreigners
are indispensable," Mrs. Suessmuth said in an interview -- a
nod to the wonders foreign chefs have done for the porky
monotony of German fare.
   But today the guest-workers and their children are largely
regarded as a problem by German society, and few of them have
become German citizens. Writing in the weekly "Die Zeit,"
author Rudolf von Thadden says: In France "the son of an
Italian immigrant, Jean-Louis Blanco . . . can become
minister for social welfare. In Germany this would be
unthinkable."
   Many Germans would respond by noting that France is also
the home of a xenophobic party stronger than any
anti-foreigner group in Germany, Jean-Marie Le Pen's National
Front. The rise of xenophobic parties in other European
countries -- Belgium's Vlaams Blok and Austria's Freedom
Party, to name two -- -is seen as further argument for
restrictions. This despite the fact that, as reported in The
Wall Street Journal Europe, the portion of non-EC nationals
who live legally in the Community is only 2.4%.
   "We realize now that a European solution is necessary,"
says Mrs. Suessmuth. By this however most Germans don't mean
that Europe should open doors. Instead they envision a
uniform asylum law that would keep foreigners out. At the
summit in Maastricht in December, European Community members
agreed to work on uniform border and immigration controls.
Members -- with the exception of Britain -- also plan a
social charter that would likely be friendly to organized
labor's interest in protecting jobs. To be fair, such a
policy would be little different from the United States' own
short-sighted border control. But in Europe, it could become
a bureaucratic version of the old Iron Curtain.
   As for the Germans, they are understandably proud of their
reunification adventure. They call Eastern Germany their
"wild east." But micro-managing manpower is at odds with the
frontier spirit -- and often, uneconomic. Back at the
Porschendorf dormitory, Mr. Smiljanic, the Yugoslav engineer,
thinks aloud: "In Singen, I worked, so I paid the city money.
Now, the city pays me money, but I am stuck here. What is the
point of that?"
   ---
   Miss Shlaes is deputy features editor on the Journal's
editorial page.