REVIEW  OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   South African Dilemma
Mr. de Klerk's counterattack is a shrewd maneuver. The
prospect of discarding him, the only plausible white leader,
should focus some minds. If the negotiation referendum does
fail, and the Conservatives come to power, then a black
uprising is more likely and world sanctions will be
reimposed.
   The Conservatives are blunt about this, telling their
followers that they will be poorer under Conservative
government, but, hunkered down in a neo-apartheid state, they
will be white-ruled. Mr. de Klerk is calling his detractors'
bluff. Is this really the future they want for South Africa?
   We can't imagine that this is an attractive vision, even
among racists. If the referendum draws significant
opposition, it will be because the negotiation endgames look
even worse. Many perceive the negotiations as a mere pretext
for the transfer of power from the National Party to ANC
rule. This would in all probability lead to tragedy. The ANC
has not yet rid itself of the thrall of Marxist economic
policies. Its military wing is menacing indeed. In times of
flux, tightly disciplined Marxist cadres have proved
successful at seizing absolute power.
   In addition, ANC domination, which would mean domination
by the Xhosa tribe, would further inflame ethnic rivalries
between blacks. The fighting with Inkatha would be made
permanent. If whites perceive the choice to be between an
authoritarian white racist state and an authoritarian black
Marxist state, then large numbers are going to resist change.
   Mr. de Klerk has changed the face of South African
politics by acknowledging that white authoritarian rule is
not only immoral, but unsustainable. He has gone on to lobby
hard for protection of minority rights. The ANC has not come
close to meeting him halfway even on this.
   But Mr. de Klerk has not taken the final step to
acknowledge that no South African leader can ever again have
as much power as he and his government possess.
   The whites brought up on apartheid inherit a system that
emphasized strong central government. The ANC leaders under
the influence of Karl Marx also instinctively believe in
strong central government. In that sense they have much in
common. Even if they could reach an agreement on continuation
of a strong central government, they will ill serve South
Africa's many ethnic groups and bring about constant strife.
Genuine, constitutionally protected federalism is the only
way out, but we hear little discussion of that.
   If Mr. de Klerk's referendum fails, then the progress of
the past years will be lost. But even if it passes, radical
rethinking is in order.