Two Oil Firms
   Weigh Buying
   U.S. Reserves
   ---
   As Major Companies Turn
   To Overseas, Mitchell,
   Noble Look Homeward
   ----
   By Caleb Solomon
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
"The time is right," Mr. Kelley said in an interview. The
major oil company, which he wouldn't identify, is currently
"in an asset disposition mode." Many oil companies seek to
sell U.S. reserves because of record-low natural gas prices,
in addition to a shift in their exploration strategies to
international areas, where they believe larger oil
discoveries can be made.
   "I'm offering anybody a free airline ticket who wants to
go overseas," said George Mitchell, chairman of Mitchell
Energy  Development Corp., Woodlands, Texas. In an
interview, Mr. Mitchell said he views the exodus overseas as
a buying opportunity, noting his company is "in the market
for a $100 million acquisition." He said the company is
"working on" an acquisition that could include oil and gas
production and processing facilities.
   Beyond the major oil companies, many smaller companies,
ravaged by weak natural-gas prices, are looking to sell
properties or to merge, just to stay afloat. "The next two
years could be really important for independents if they can
get the money to buy properties," Mr. Mitchell said.
   Messrs. Kelley and Mitchell made speeches at a hearing
held here by the Texas Railroad Commission, which regulates
the state's energy industry. Numerous speakers joined the two
men in bemoaning hard times caused by weak gas prices. Prices
fell below $1 a thousand cubic feet in February in many
places. That was 30%-to-50% lower than the year-earlier's
depressed levels.
   "It is critical," said T. Boone Pickens, chairman of Mesa
Inc. "Something has got to change, or the independent
producer is about to go the route of the carrier pigeon.
They're extinct now," he said.
   "Two-thirds of (the industry has) already gone down the
tube, and we don't care to go with them," said Raymond Plank,
chairman of Apache Corp. In the face of low gas prices, these
speakers and others urged Texas regulators to allow companies
to curb the flow of gas from Texas.
   Noble's Mr. Kelley said that in today's environment, it
makes more sense to buy reserves than to risk exploration
dollars on the chance of finding them. "You can buy reserves
. . . at virtually no risk," he said.
   Mr. Kelley said Noble would shift money from its
exploration budget into the possible acquisition. Beyond
that, he said, Noble's healthy balance sheet would allow it
to leverage $100 million to $150 million. With interest rates
low, Noble could borrow an additional $50 million to $75
million.
   The company has talked with potential financial partners
that would match Noble's cash investment in any acquisition,
which could be in the neighborhood of $200 million or more,
Mr. Kelley said.
   "We think 1992 could be a tough year for the industry, but
could be a heck of a year for us," Mr. Kelley said.
   Last year, Noble had net income of $19.3 million, or 44
cents a share, on revenue of $250.4 million. In the year
ended Jan. 31, Mitchell Energy earned $44.3 million, or 95
cents a share, on revenue of $874.4 million. Both companies
said they expect first-quarter results to be weaker than
those of a year earlier.