Marketing  Media:
   Paramount Cites
   Weak Film Results
   As Net Falls 25%
   ----
   By Kevin Goldman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
In New York Stock Exchange composite trading yesterday,
Paramount shares closed at $40.75, up $1.375.
   Paramount misfired with two major movies in the quarter,
"Frankie  Johnny," a romance starring Al Pacino and Michelle
Pfeiffer, and "The Butcher's Wife" with Demi Moore as a
clairvoyant. Analysts said the thriller "Dead Again" and the
off-beat football comedy "Necessary Roughness" were only
marginally successful.
   Though the company reported record operating profit in its
publishing operations, Martin S. Davis, chairman and chief
executive officer, said in a statement that overall, "fiscal
1991 results were clearly disappointing." He added: "However,
we are confident that the decisive steps we have taken to
strengthen management, improve our infrastructure and sharply
pare overhead costs will produce markedly better results in
1992 and in the long-term."
   Analysts agreed with Mr. Davis's assesment. After major
management changes, particularly at the Paramount Pictures
unit, the company is poised to "show steady improvement,"
said Mark Manson, vice president at Donaldson, Lufkin 
Jenrette Securities Corp.
   Paramount is encouraged by the performances of two movies
during its fiscal 1992 first quarter: "The Addams Family,"
which has grossed about $100 million and was the eighth most
popular film in 1991, and the sixth -- and perhaps
final-installment of the "Star Trek" epic, which has grossed
more than $60 million.
   In the year, net dropped to $122.2 million, or $1.03 a
share, from fiscal 1990's $259.1 million, or $2.16 a share,
including a charge of $35.4 million. Revenue was unchanged at
$3.9 billion.
   Ed Hatch, an analyst with UBS Securities, said the company
was in a strong position, despite a continued recession and
softness in advertising. Mr. Hatch and some others on Wall
Street continue to speculate that Paramount may make an
acquisition in the broadcasting business with its more than
$1 billion in cash. Rumors persist that Paramount might make
a friendly move to acquire part of National Broadcasting Co.
from parent General Electric Co. Both companies said they
don't comment on rumors.