Blurred Borders:
   Industries Find Growth
   Of Digital Electronics
   Brings In Competitors
   ---
   As Computers, Phones, Video
   Blend or Overlap, Winners
   And Losers Will Emerge
   ---
   Consumers Likely to Benefit
   ----
   By G. Pascal Zachary
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
And with the aid of digital electronics, the utility began
offering telephone service to some of its employees last year
and plans to expand the service to the city's school
district. "It's technically feasible and legally doable,"
says William Ray, the utility's chief.
   All this illustrates how the lines are blurring among four
huge industries: computers, consumer electronics,
communications and entertainment. The relentless spread of
digital electronics -- converting information, sound, video,
text and images into a single stream of ones and zeros that
can be decoded by similar electronic hardware -- is stepping
up competition, forcing strange alliances and undermining
once-lucrative businesses. Consumers seem sure to get new
services and lower prices.
   Operators of telephone, television, cellular and satellite
systems like digital because it vastly increases clarity and
capacity and can improve security. Creators of music, movies,
books and pictures benefit because digital allows their
product to be transferred readily to a variety of packages
and reproduced more cheaply. Makers of consumer-electronic
equipment find digital saves money by providing a common
underlying technology.
   Which industries or companies will benefit most from the
invasions of each other's turf isn't clear, however. "You can
sit inside one of these industries and think you're immune,
but these other industries are coming at you," says Robert
Lucky, executive director of research at American Telephone 
Telegraph Co.'s Bell Labs.
   It sure looks that way. Cable-TV carriers and
consumer-electronics makers are buying movie and music
producers. Satellite TV and data networks are being launched
by a defense contractor, a computer maker and a media
company. U.S. telephone companies own cable systems abroad
and are itching to buy them at home. Software companies are
acquiring images and data for use in their products, and
publishers are packaging books in electronic form.
   "Everybody is in everybody's business today," says Craig
McCaw, chairman of McCaw Cellular Communications Inc., the
nation's largest cellular carrier. The free-for-all could
redraw the corporate landscape -- if government regulations,
industry divisions and technical problems don't bar the way.
   Government, which has long tried to separate the fields of
broadcasting, telecommunications and information, is relaxing
its grip. Last October, a federal court approved plans by
regional telephone companies to offer electronic data and
shopping services over their lines. The Federal
Communications Commission is encouraging phone companies to
enter the broadcasting business and cable providers to offer
wireless telephony.
   However, regulators, concerned about rising prices for
cable and the effect of changes on newspapers and other
media, still might hit the brakes; already the Senate has
passed a bill permitting municipalities to regulate rates for
basic cable services. But in the end, "technology is going to
obliterate the current regulatory structure," asserts Stag
Newman, a strategist with Pacific Telesis.
   Industry's failure to get its act together also is
delaying the Digital Age. Self-interest has spawned a
proliferation of electronic standards, making integration of
digital media cumbersome or impossible and penalizing
consumers for buying one hardware system instead of another.
Already there are competing formats for compact-disk players;
disks made for one system can't play on another. And an
electronic game designed for Nintendo can't play on a Sega or
Atari.
   Technical hurdles also are worrisome, though not
insurmountable. The most vexing are to find ways to compress
data, especially motion pictures and medical images, so that
less expensive processing and communications hardware is
required. Another tricky problem: what to do with predigital
data, mainly text, photographs, film and music. Today, most
information products, such as music and newspapers, are
translated into computer-readable form during their
production. But older material must be converted into
electronic form, a process that currently is expensive,
time-consuming and not always accurate.
   Despite these obstacles, the convergence of digital
industries brings unusual opportunities. U.S. companies, for
instance, may get a fresh shot at consumer electronics, a
sprawling industry that until recently was widely considered
irretrievably lost to the Japanese. "Here is our opportunity
to get it back," says James Clark, chairman of Silicon
Graphics Inc., of Mountain View, Calif. The reason for
optimism: The U.S. is strong in computers. Since music, video
and text are going digital, the devices that will store,
record and play this material will essentially be computers
in handy packages.
   So, the spread of digital electronics could reverse
decades of decline in U.S. competitiveness. Just a few years
ago, the U.S. seemed doomed to trail Japan in advanced
digital TV but now appears to have leapfrogged into the lead.
In electronic-game hardware, where Nintendo is king, a
product being planned by Apple Computer Inc. is raising hopes
of an American resurgence. And while Sony Corp. is still
leading the way in electronic books and camcorders,
Hewlett-Packard Co. has beaten the Japanese to the punch with
a palm-sized electronic spreadsheet.
   In communications, digital electronics is fostering
creation of new networks that can serve as highways for bits
of information. Three types of networks are emerging. One is
based on satellites, a second on the fiber and coaxial cables
belonging to telephone and cable-TV companies, and a third on
cellular and other radio technologies. Alfred Sikes, the FCC
chairman, expects all three to flourish. That's because of
the extensive equipment and networks already in place; the
desire of some companies to run networks; and the benefit to
the public from expanded competition.
   "I like the idea of competing networks," says Richard
Snelling, executive vice president, network, of Southern
Bell, a unit of BellSouth Corp. "Even though it squanders
resources to an extent, it promotes innovation." He adds,
however, that the convergence of once-distinct industries is
"going to create a lot of chaos."
   It also will hurt some industries. The losers may include:
   -- Network television. "Over the air" broadcasters will be
squeezed by vast video libraries stored electronically and
obtained by satellite or on disks. Cable-TV will become more
threatening as providers expand channel capacity and quality
through digital circuitry. Just as pre-recorded music reduced
the audience for radio, new ways of obtaining video
entertainment may change the economics of TV by squeezing out
commercials. However, the networks also expect to go digital.
They "are a long way from dead," says John Malone, chief
executive of Tele-Communications Inc.
   -- Service companies. Digital electronics will usher in a
fresh round of automation, wiping out entire classes of
service workers much as computers wiped out many factory and
clerical jobs. As the quality of documents sent by fax
machines and electronic mail improves, express-mail concerns
will lose customers. In addition, suppliers of all kinds will
get by with fewer workers as ubiquitous sensors, sending
wireless messages to central computers, streamline the
process of restocking store shelves or reading utility
meters.
   -- Video-rental stores. Digital electronics will make
renting a movie as simple as changing a TV channel or dialing
the telephone. No more late-night trips to a video store,
says Nolan Bushnell, a pioneer in electronic entertainment.
Already trying to stave off obsolescence, Blockbuster
Entertainment Corp. has started promoting for-purchase movies
and recently decided to sell titles stored on compact disks.
   -- Personal-computer makers. General-purpose PCs are
likely to be supplanted by "information appliances" requiring
little training. "Even the exceptional users still spend more
time on their tools than solving problems they're meant to
solve," says John Young, chief executive of Hewlett-Packard.
"That isn't right."
   -- Newspaper publishers. Weakened by a slump in
advertising, newspapers now face competition from telephone
companies. One big fear: Phone companies could skim
classified advertising, the most profitable section of most
metropolitan papers. Dow Jones  Co., publisher of The Wall
Street Journal, already runs electronic-data services.
MediaNews Group Inc., which publishes 72 newspapers, is
talking with phone companies about supplying editorial
material and selling audio ads.
   The looming digital transformation has many companies
struggling for ways to best defend their turf -- and fretting
more about cannibals from other industries than about
traditional rivals. "I'm more afraid of the data providers --
Dow Jones, Reuters, McGraw-Hill -- than I am of my database
software rivals," says Lawrence Ellison, chief executive
officer of Oracle Corp., a supplier of database software.
   Eastman Kodak Co. illustrates how companies try to avoid
being blindsided by rivals. In June, Kodak plans to sell a
digital system that takes film negatives and converts them
into images stored on compact disks. The disks will be
prepared by photo developers and playable on home computers.
Kodak hopes to lessen its dependence on film, but "it is also
a defensive program," says Scott Brownstein, manager of
digital-imaging development.
   Kodak's "Photo CD" plan is in a race against all-digital
cameras, which capture images on semiconductor chips. These
cameras, made by Sony, Canon and others since the mid-1980s,
are gradually improving in quality, though digital pictures
still pale in comparison to those from film cameras. In
addition, the digital cameras are costly right now. But they
produce pictures instantly, and the images can be sliced and
diced electronically. So, the long-term threat to film is
serious, and Kodak really has to respond, says Eugene Glazer,
an analyst at Dean Witter Reynolds.
   But protecting the film business is expensive -- and
risky. Mr. Glazer estimates that Kodak will spend hundreds of
millions of dollars to launch Photo CD; the company declines
to estimate the cost. And consumers may not bite because they
would need a special CD player and perhaps a computer, plus a
camera.
   Mr. Brownstein says Photo CD, to be successful, has to
grab only a tiny percentage of the 60 billion photos taken
each year. But even then, Kodak may only delay the inevitable
triumph of digital electronics, where advances are being
fueled by billions of dollars invested annually by dozens of
major concerns.
   Kodak's plight shows the dangers of going it alone.
Alliances are one way to hold off the cannibals. Examples
abound. BellSouth is working with consumer-electronics king
Sony on a new type of wireless phone system. Oracle and McCaw
Cellular are testing a broadcast service that aims to strip
data traffic from traditional telephone carriers.
   Probably the best-known alliance brings together Sony,
Apple and Motorola Inc. Though rivals in some areas, the
three are joining forces to go after the nascent market for
pocket-sized cellular phones that double as electronic
notepads. Each company is contributing different pieces of
the technology -- Apple, software; Sony, manufacturing and
design; and Motorola, chips and communications know-how.
   These alliances are just the beginning. "You're going to
see a whole different world of relationships between
industries and companies that you never thought would do
things together," says John Sculley, Apple's chief executive
officer.
   Some companies, however, are trying on their own to span
the expanse of digital software and hardware, networks and
content. "There's nobody in News Corp. who would call
themselves a digital manager, but that's our approach," says
John B. Evans, executive vice president of News Corp. News
Corp. owns TV Guide, publisher HarperCollins, Fox TV, a
computerized map company, a European satellite broadcast
network, and many newspapers and magazines.
   A few years ago, it was inconceivable that a single
corporation could pursue all or even most of the digital
permutations. But that was before a slew of acquisitions by
News Corp.; the merger of Time Inc. and Warner
Communications, Sony's acquisition of the enormous music and
movie holdings of Columbia Pictures, and Matsushita Electric
Works Ltd.'s purchase of MCA and its similar operations.
   So far, these deals have produced only modest results.
News Corp. and Time-Warner Inc. are constrained by debt, and
the two Japanese giants have yet to reap the benefits of
marrying hardware with "soft" entertainment content. But
"rightly or wrongly," ATT's Mr. Lucky says, these deals "may
have set the trend."