What the High-Tech Evangelists
   Are Preaching Isn't Always Gospel
   ----
   By L.A. Winokur
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
Part technical consultant, part sales and marketing rep,
evangelists show up at trade shows and even on customers'
doorsteps, with the goal of winning support for their
products -- and garnering feedback -- through a mixture of
education, friendly persuasion and soft sell.
   Jodi Slater, a software evangelist with Electronics for
Imaging Inc., San Bruno, Calif., concedes that she isn't
crazy about the religious connotations of her title. But she
says evangelist "really describes what I do better than any
other term."
   Is this blasphemy?
   Guy Kawasaki, a former card-carrying evangelist for Apple
Computer Inc., doesn't think so. "Religious evangelists are
trying to change the world, and so are we," he says.
   The marketing messiahs believe word-of-mouth will be the
medium of the '90s. "Consumers are turning to the people they
trust to give them information and then let them decide,"
asserts Mr. Kawasaki.
   He may have a disciple: New York marketing consultant and
trend watcher Faith Popcorn calls evangelism "a sweet
concept" and an approach that's "quite correct and quite
right" for the '90s.
   Apple Computer was the first high-tech employer to
sanction -- in 1983 -- the use of evangelist as a job title.
Although the title's use is limited to a steadily increasing
following in computers, that's not to say there aren't
evangelists out there in other fields. "They just may not
call themselves that," asserts Mr. Kawasaki.
   What do religious evangelists make of this new breed?
   "Technically, they're right in using the word," says
Victor Nelson, executive assistant to the Billy Graham
Evangelistic Association, in Minneapolis. "The term can refer
to anyone promoting anything -- any product in the
marketplace." However, he warns of the secular world
"crowding in" on the word evangelist. "Ethically, it's
another matter. You'll have to use your judgment. And so will
I."