Tax Report:
   A Special Summary and Forecast
   Of Federal and State Tax
   Developments
   ----
   By Scott R. Schmedel
Drafted sketchily to allow discussion, the clause is aimed
at developing an optional process for donors who want to
agree with the IRS in advance on appraisals of artworks and
collectibles valued above a threshold of, say, $50,000.
Taxpayers might pay a fee, as they do for private IRS
rulings. The procedure could involve mutually acceptable
appraisers or the IRS's advisory panel of outside art experts
who now review valuations under audit. "It sounds very
sensible to me," says Ashton Hawkins, executive vice
president of the Met Museum.
   The Treasury says it's reviewing the proposal and
developing a position.
                                                                                                       

   THE EYES AND NAYS of IRS beholders illustrate the
conflicts in valuing art.
   During 1991, the IRS Art Advisory Panel of outside experts
reviewed 1,630 works of art valued at $75.3 million by
appraisers for taxpayers who were being audited in 64
donation cases. The panel accepted the taxpayers' deductions
for 1,263 of the items, or 77%, and it even increased the
values of 23 other items by $4.1 million. But the experts
chopped $16.4 million, or 46%, off claims for 357 items
valued by the taxpayers' appraisers at $35.8 million.
   While donors may inflate their charitable deductions,
estates tend to undervalue their taxable bequests of art to
heirs that aren't charities. The panel completed reviews of
1,174 items valued at $280 million in 126 estate-and-gift-tax
audits. It accepted appraisals for 618 -- over 50%; but it
increased valuations of 406 items by $36.8 million, or 79%.
Still, it reduced valuations of 150 items by $18 million, or
12%.
                                                                                                       

   BUSINESSES DECRY proposals to trim interest that the IRS
pays on refunds.
   The IRS needn't pay interest on an income-tax refund
issued within 45 days after the later of a return's due date
or its filing date; but it gets no grace period for excise,
estate, and other taxes. Bush's tax bill would end the
disparity and save cash by applying the grace period to
refunds based on any tax, amended returns, and other claims.
That irks businesses, but they are up in arms over a measure
the House added to the Bush proposal.
   Tax Executives Institute, the American Institute of CPAs,
New York state and city bar sections and many others have
fired off complaints. The thorn is this: If the IRS failed to
issue a refund by 45 days after an amended return or refund
claim was filed, it would pay interest back only to the date
the claim was filed -- not all the way back to the original
return's due date. That is "fundamentally unfair," Wayne
Robinson, tax director of GenCorp, says.
   If enacted, the rule will force companies to take more
aggressive positions on original returns, Robinson contends.
                                                                                                       

   TAXPAYERS OVER 55 may avoid tax on a gain of as much as
$125,000 from selling a main home. The House bill would index
the amount for inflation, remove the minimum age if the
person or spouse was permanently and completely disabled, and
extend the break to 160 acres of farmed land sold along with
a home located on it.
                                                                                                       

   WIDELY CRITICIZED new rules for estimated taxes would be
repealed by the House. Its bill would allow individuals to
escape penalties if their payments were at least 115% of the
prior year's tax or 90% of the current year's liability.
                                                                                                       

   MOVING COSTS from changing job locations are deductible if
your new work site is at least 35 miles farther from your
former home than your prior job was. The House would curtail
such deductions by increasing the distance to 75 miles.
                                                                                                       

   STATE TAX REVENUES grew at a much stronger rate in 1991's
last quarter.
   But while the 6.3% rise from a year before reported by 49
states was the best for a quarter since the recession began,
it doesn't signal an improving economy, says Steven Gold of
the Center for the Study of the States. Excluding 1990 and
1991 tax increases, the gain was only 1.2%. Of the nine
states with double-digit gains, seven, including Connecticut
and Pennsylvania, enacted big increases last year.
   Without tax increases, only the Rocky Mountain states'
growth topped 4%; all other regions had revenue rises under
the 3% inflation rate. Fourteen states had lower sales-tax
revenue. Excluding enacted increases, sales-tax revenue rose
0.9%; adjusted for inflation, it fell over 2%. Even with
higher rates and broadened bases, sales-tax revenue grew by
only 5.9%.
   Gold says tax-revenue gains expected in 1992 probably
won't be enough to restore states' fiscal strength.
                                                                                                       

   TAX-BILL BRIEFS: The House would remove one drawback to
including a child's unearned income on a parental return: It
would index the amounts involved for inflation. It also would
index an exemption used in figuring the alternative minimum
tax on a child's return. . . . Unlike the Bush administration
bill, the House bill wouldn't institute taxes on credit
unions.