Mips Computer,
   Silicon Graphics
   Agree to Merge
   ---
   Stock Deal of $334 Million
   Deemed Needed to Keep
   Developing New Chips
   ----
   By Stephen Kreider Yoder
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The merger proposal follows growing worries among computer
makers using Mips-designed chips that Mips's recent financial
troubles would affect its ability to turn out new innovations
of its chips. Mips had net losses in three of the past five
quarters.
   Those worries were compounded earlier this year when
Digital Equipment Corp., a big Mips-chip user and owner of 5%
of Mips's stock, unveiled a chip that may eventually compete
with Mips chips. Adding to the clouds over Mips were several
defections from Mips chips and nagging questions about
whether an alliance of computer companies that planned a
computer standard centered on Mips chips, called the Advanced
Computer Environment, would stick together.
   "There's no secret that Mips's financial performance was
spotty," said Edward McCracken, chief executive officer of
Silicon Graphics. The merger provides "a stable financial
platform from which an architecture can operate."
   Bringing stability to Mips is crucial for Silicon
Graphics, which uses Mips chips in all of its workstations.
Indeed, Mips's chief executive officer, Robert Miller, said
the merger was necessary to give Mips the money it needed to
keep developing new chips. Mips has been spending about 20%
of revenue on research and development, he said, far more
than the industry average of 12% and too high a level to
maintain as an independent company.
   "This is a marriage born of necessity," said David
Burdick, an analyst at Dataquest Inc., a market-research
firm.
   The merger is at least a partial defeat for Mips and for
Mr. Miller, Mips's chief executive since 1987, when he joined
the company from Data General Corp. Mips, like Silicon
Graphics, grew out of work at Stanford University in the
early 1980s on a new chip technology called
reduced-instruction-set computing, or Risc. After Mips
languished for several years, Mr. Miller joined it and began
turning the company around, taking it public with much
fanfare from Wall Street in December 1989.
   Mips, which designs processor chips that become the
"brains" of computers, was seen as proof that an
entrepreneurial startup could still play with the big boys in
the computer market. Mips grew rapidly and today has a 35%
share of the market for Risc microprocessors in computers,
according to Dataquest. But recent financial troubles and
delays in introducing new chips plague the Sunnyvale, Calif.,
company, whose stock closed at $11 Tuesday, down from a high
of $27.75 three months after its public offering. Mips's
shares yesterday closed at $13.50, up $2.50, in national
over-the-counter trading.
   "It's a sad thing in a certain way," said Willem
Roelandts, a Hewlett-Packard Co. vice president who oversees
that company's workstation business. "This was the highflier
of a couple of years ago. It proves again that it's tough to
remain at the top. The stakes in the Risc-development race
are so high (that) small companies just don't have the
resources to do so."
   Indeed, the merger makes Silicon Graphics look a lot more
like its bigger competitors, including H-P, Sun Microsystems
Inc., International Business Machines Corp. and others.
Silicon Graphics has grown rapidly because of its expertise
in three-dimensional graphics and software but is still a
distant sixth in market share in workstations, according to
Dataquest. Meanwhile, each of the top five workstation makers
has its own in-house Risc chip, while Silicon Graphics
didn't.
   The ultimate benefit of bringing Mips architecture
in-house, said Mr. McCracken, is that it makes the chip a
more viable alternative to Intel Corp.'s chips, which
dominate the huge market for personal computers. "We like to
view this as directly competitive to Intel's microprocessor
activity, rather than to H-P or Sun," he said.
   That might be a conflict for Mips chip users, who will
depend on Silicon Graphics, now a competitor, to give them
new innovations they need in chips. While companies such as
LSI Logic Corp. and Japan's NEC Corp. will keep making
Mips-designed chips, companies such as Compaq Computer Corp.
and Sony Corp. that use the chips must depend on Silicon
Graphics for new versions.
   "I don't believe small systems companies like SGI should
be in this business, trying to be suppliers of both chip
architectures and systems," said Vicki Brown, an analyst at
International Data Corp., a market-research firm.
   To waylay such fears, the merger calls for the formation
of a subsidiary, Mips Technologies Inc., that will deal with
Mips's chip customers and the companies that make Mips chips.
Mr. Miller, who will become the chief executive of the
subsidiary, said the separation of the chip technology from
the parent company will ensure it is independent.
   The deal calls for Mips stockholders to receive 0.61
Silicon Graphics share for each of Mips's 25 million shares
outstanding, giving former Mips shareholders a 23.5% interest
in Silicon Graphics. Silicon Graphics said it must issue
between 3.9 million and 5.4 million new shares or equivalent
convertible securities to complete the deal. Kubota Corp., a
Japanese tractor maker that has invested in several American
high-technology companies, currently has a 16.2% stake in
Mips. A Kubota spokesman said the company had no comment on
the merger.
   Wall Street wasn't so optimistic. While Mr. McCracken said
the merger would actually increase earnings per share,
analysts said it probably would be dilutive. As a result,
many took Silicon Graphics off their "buy" lists, and the
stock plummeted $4.75 to $21.875 in New York Stock Exchange
trading yesterday.
   Mr. McCracken said Silicon Graphics "is willing to take
steps to make this antidilutive through 1993." While the
Mountain View, Calif., company will take a charge in the
quarter ending June 30 to cover the merger, most of Mips's
700 employees will be hired into Silicon Graphics' rapidly
growing work force, he said, and growth from Silicon
Graphics' workstation lines will counterbalance Mips's
money-losing computer lines.