Politics  Policy:
   Attorney General Barr, Targeting Violent Crime,
   Comes on Like Gangbusters in a Campaign Year
   ----
   By Paul M. Barrett
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
"In a department that has been highly politicized, the
appointment of someone who has never run for office nor is
expected to is most welcome," liberal Democratic Rep. Charles
Schumer of New York said at the time of Mr. Barr's
appointment. "I hope he will be able to reverse the trend of
politics at the Department of Justice."
   But now that he has the country's top law-enforcement job,
Mr. Barr has put a heavy emphasis on attention-grabbing
events and pronouncements that may have more to do with
presidential election-year politicking than with fighting
crime on the streets. In recent days he has:
   -- Personally announced the breakup of two Washington-area
drug rings at an unusual press conference attended by an army
of the most senior federal law-enforcement officials.
   -- Called press conferences to advertise the transfer of
agents of the Federal Bureau of Investigation and Drug
Enforcement Administration to "violent crime" duty from other
assignments.
   -- Promised to add new immigration agents to "combat
illegal immigration and violent crime by criminal aliens."
   -- And reversed Justice Department policy and promised
federal help for states fighting court supervision of
overcrowded prisons.
   Under Mr. Barr, urban gang violence -- ordinarily
considered a state or local police concern -- has suddenly
become the Justice Department's top priority. "Removing the
deadly presence of . . . gangs is the first step in
reclaiming neighborhoods," Mr. Barr said at one recent press
event.
   A more immediate goal, according to another administration
official who speaks on the condition of anonymity, is to
"focus {public attention} on the big violent-crime stuff --
death penalty, prisons, gangs," as a way to underscore the
administration's concern about domestic problems.
   Ira Raphaelson, counselor to the attorney general and one
of Mr. Barr's closest aides, insists that presidential
politics aren't behind the flurry of press releases about
violent crime. Instead, he asserts that Mr. Barr is sending a
message that the federal government will "help pay the price"
to clean up besieged communities.
   Mr. Barr believes that federal leadership, even if limited
in scope, will galvanize broader state and local action
against violent crime, Mr. Raphaelson explains. Within the
Justice Department, Mr. Barr, who has been traveling for the
past few days and couldn't be reached for comment, has
markedly improved staff morale, which had suffered under Mr.
Thornburgh, and has promoted highly regarded career
prosecutors such as Mr. Raphaelson.
   But a close examination of Mr. Barr's publicity offensive
shows a healthy measure of hype and some noteworthy
discrepancies.
   Consider the Jan. 31 announcement on the Washington-area
gangs -- unusual in that the attorney general of the U.S.
typically doesn't summon the national media to announce the
arrest of street dealers. Mr. Barr boasted to reporters and
television cameras that two deadly drug organizations had
been "taken out" as a result of newly improved cooperation
between federal and local officials.
   Once the attorney general had left the Justice Department
briefing room, however, Richard Cullen, U.S. attorney in
Alexandria, Va., conceded that, in fact, one of the two busts
was old news. Convictions that had taken place months
earlier, and in some instances more than a year earlier, had
been repackaged for dramatic effect.
   More theatrics: Mr. Barr reported that about 450 federal
and local officers had participated in the local sweep,
resulting in 18 arrests. "If that's true," comments American
University criminologist James Fyfe, "that's more cops to
arrest 18 street dealers than ever before in history. . . .
It's for show." Federal agents concur, with some
embarrassment, that it was a case of "extreme overkill," as
one put it.
   More troubling, asserts Mr. Fyfe, a former New York City
police officer, is the use of "body counts" and other symbols
of toughness that may distract public attention more than
they address real problems. William Bennett, the White House
drug czar early in the Bush administration, excoriated
federal agencies for tallying such statistics; he contended
that trends in illicit drug use, price and availability are
more meaningful measures of success.
   Mr. Barr recently has also announced that 300 FBI agents
and 25 DEA agents will be transferred to violent-crime squads
in big cities from other assignments. But New York alone has
more than 25,000 cops, observes Mr. Fyfe. Putting "a few more
specially trained agents on the street," he argues, "won't
make much of a difference."
   The attorney general's promised crackdown on violent crime
by illegal aliens was highlighted by his announcement last
weekend of a 7% increase in the staff of the Immigration and
Naturalization Service, an arm of the Justice Departmenteven
though the administration last month had already asked
Congress for an 11% increase in the Justice Department's
overall budget.
   Thirteen months ago, when he was still deputy attorney
general, Mr. Barr made a similar-sounding vow to "put more
teeth on the {Mexican} border" by redeploying large numbers
of Border Patrol agents and other INS personnel. INS
spokesman Duke Austin acknowledges that the previous Barr
intitiative "never really got off the ground." Mr. Austin
says the newly announced plan would expand the staff, rather
than rearrange it, but concedes that "the intent of the
{current} effort is the same" as the earlier one that was
never executed.
   Another inconsistency emerges from scrutiny of the
administration's anti-crime budget for fiscal 1993, which
begins Oct. 1. Mr. Barr and his deputies, in conjunction with
the president's State of the Union speech, have repeatedly
trumpeted increased funding requests for the FBI, DEA and
regional task forces focusing on organized crime and money
laundering.
   But Office of Management and Budget documents show that
the administration is actually asking Congress to cut
spending for "criminal investigative" activities. The
president's combined fiscal 1993 request is $2.93 billion,
down from $2.95 billion in estimated spending for fiscal
1992, according to the OMB. George Terwilliger, the acting
deputy attorney general and overseer of the department's
budget, says he can't explain the discrepancy except to
suggest that the department figures may reflect the spending
ceiling the administration wants Congress to authorize for
fiscal 1993, while the OMB is estimating the number of
dollars that actually would be spent on federal criminal
investigations.
   On the topic of prisons, some of Mr. Barr's pronouncements
appear to be at odds with the views of the Supreme Court, a
tribunal dominated by conservatives and not generally seen
sympathetic to inmates. Mr. Barr, in a reversal of Justice
Department policy, last month urged states with overcrowded
prisons to seek release from court orders placing caps on
inmate populations. He accused federal judges of abusing
their authority in approving settlements of prison litigation
that impose anything beyond the rock-bottom constitutional
requirement that prisoners not suffer "cruel and unusual"
punishment.
   In an apparent coincidence, the Supreme Court issued a
decision on prisons on Jan. 15, the day after Mr. Barr's
speech. The high court ruled, 6-2, that state prison
officials indeed should have wide latitude in seeking to
modify restrictive court orders. But the majority went out of
its way to stress that federal judges may impose requirements
beyond minimum constitutional standards-contrary to Mr.
Barr's declaration.