Marketing:
   Heated, if Smokeless, Competition Rages
   Amid Marketers of Nicotine Skin Patches
   ----
   By Kathleen Deveny
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
This year alone, companies are expected to spend up to
$100 million to lure smokers who have tried to quit and
couldn't -- often bypassing doctors with ads pitched directly
at puffers.
   One print ad for Habitrol patches, marketed by Ciba-Geigy
Ltd., features a young woman who proudly exposes the big
patch on her shoulder. The ad announced that a "relaxation
and motivation" audio tape is provided with the drug. Marion
Merrell Dow Inc. advertised its Nicoderm skin patch on the
televised Super Bowl -- a first for a prescription product.
And yesterday, American Cyanamid Co.'s Lederle unit trotted
out actress Lauren Bacall, a former smoker, at a press
conference to promote a recent poll that confirms smoking by
parents takes an emotional toll on children. The poll is part
of a larger effort to introduce Lederle's ProStep patch.
   The patch wars began taking shape in early November last
year, when the U.S. Food and Drug Administration first
approved Nicoderm for prescription sales. A few weeks later,
Ciba-Giegy received approval for its Habitrol patch. In late
January this year, Lederle got regulators' blessing for
ProStep. Still awaiting FDA approval: the Nicotrol patch, to
be marketed by Warner-Lambert Co. The three approved patches
are now available to consumers.
   Doctors say smokers are flocking to the products, causing
shortages in some areas. Nicoderm patches are in especially
tight supply in some markets, including parts of New Jersey
and the Boston area. "There are sporadic outages of the
product because of the enormous demand," says a spokesman for
Marion Merrell Dow.
   Ciba-Geigy says it hasn't experienced shortages of
Habitrol. A spokesman for Lederle, whose ProStep patches have
been hitting pharmacy shelves in the past few weeks, says,
"Patients who are facing an interruption of their therapy go
to their doctor and ask for a prescription of an alternate
brand." (It isn't clear, however, whether the brands are
always interchangeable.)
   Increasingly worried about their health and crowded into
ever-shrinking smoking sections, many of the 50 million
Americans who smoke don't want to anymore. Each year, some 18
million try to quit; only about 1.3 million succeed. Demand
for any smoking-cessation product that provides hope is
potentially huge. Wall Street analysts predict the patch
market will exceed $400 million this year and could
eventually top $1 billion.
   "It's going to be an enormous market," says Hemant K.
Shah, an analyst at HKS  Co., a health-care research firm.
But he warns that despite smokers' initial interest in new
products, the patches' long-term future is uncertain. Not all
patients will use the patches correctly, he suggests, making
them less effective than they could be. And after an initial
burst of advertising spending, recruiting new customers will
depend heavily on good word-of-mouth.
   Some critics are skeptical about the patch purveyors'
tactics. Many doctors oppose consumer ads for prescription
products because they worry that patients might not divulge
other medications they are taking. What's more, marketers'
efforts to get around FDA guidelines on consumer ads for
prescription drugs may result in confusing messages. The
agency requires that ads including the drug's suggested usage
must also list all possible ill effects -- a rule that
encourages marketers to run TV ads that refrain from telling
what the product is designed to do.
   "The message of these ads is, `Here's something you don't
really need a doctor for, so just go out and find somebody to
prescribe it,'" says C. John Tupper, past president of the
American Medical Association. "These products should be on
prescription because they aren't for everyone."
   Even marketers concede the patches aren't a magic cure.
They work best for patients who are heavily addicted to
nicotine -- those who smoke more than a pack a day and
continue to smoke even when they are ill -- but are also
highly motivated to quit. To be fully effective, the patches
must be coupled with behavior-modification therapy. Even
then, studies show only 20% to 40% of smokers who use the
patches are able to successfully stop.
   That relatively low success rate is due largely to the
complex nature of the tobacco habit. In addition to a
physical addiction to nicotine, smokers also get locked into
behavioral patterns that may be even harder to break. Years
after quitting, for example, some puffers still miss lighting
up after a meal -- or during a stressful moment.
   Although the patches come with slightly different
instructions, the three products that have received FDA
approval work in similar ways. When stuck to a spot on the
upper body, the nicotine steadily leaches through the skin
into the bloodstream. Smokers start with a daily dose of
about 21 milligrams of nicotine -- the amount contained in
about 10 cigarettes. The average cost: $3.50 to $4 a day.
   The patches are designed to relieve the physical symptoms
of nicotine withdrawal, which include intense cravings for
cigarettes, difficulty in concentrating and irritability,
long enough for smokers to change behavioral habits that also
trigger the desire to smoke. Two of the products, Nicoderm
and Habitrol, offer patches with increasingly smaller doses
of nicotine to help wean quitters off the patches. ProStep,
in contrast, comes in only one strength.
   Because the patches are so similar, their marketers are
touting extras. Lederle's ProStep appears to go the furthest
to court would-be quitters. At its news conference yesterday,
the company unveiled a marketing program that includes free
phone therapy from smoking-cessation experts.
   "One of the things we recognize about smoking cessation is
that people usually have to try about five times before they
can quit," says Mark D. Perrin, vice president and general
manager of Lederle. "These patches are a wonderful aid, but
they are not fail-proof."
   Lederle is also offering to reimburse pharmacists for time
spent educating ProStep patients. To quantify their efforts,
the company has distributed forms pharmacists can discuss
with patients. The druggist gets $2 for each signed form.
   Along with its Habitrol, Ciba-Geigy gives patients two
brochures -- one with tips for smokers and one to help their
friends or relatives deal with them during withdrawal.
Patients also receive an audio tape prepared by the American
Lung Association that details relaxation techniques and
provides motivational messages.
   Marion Merrell Dow makes sure that doctors who prescribe
its Nicoderm patch also give patients a 60-page booklet that
includes tips for quitters. Among the advice: Overcome the
urge to have a cigarette in your hand by snapping a rubber
band. For patients who still have questions, there is an 800
number.
   The Dow Chemical Co. unit is expected to spend $25 million
on promoting its patch this year -- making it the segment's
most aggressive advertiser. The company has experience on its
side: Its Nicorette gum was the first prescription product
identified by brand name on network television. Commercials
for Nicoderm feature two men discussing the patch as they
rush through an airport. Print ads for the brand tell
smokers: "You don't need lectures, you need help."
   Because the Nicotrol patch hasn't yet received FDA
approval, Warner-Lambert won't detail its marketing plans.
But a spokesman points out that the product is significantly
different from its competitors: The other patches are worn
for 24 hours, while Nicotrol is worn only during the day.
"We're positioning it as the daytime patch," the spokesman
says.
   Although it's too early to call the winner, analysts say
Marrion Merrell Dow's lead into the market will be difficult
for competitors to surmount. "Getting out there first is
critical," says Mr. Shah of HKS. "Whoever is able to gain the
most market share over the next 12 months is likely to
dominate the category long into the future."