Marketing:
   Fast-Food Chains Hope Diners Swallow
   New `Value' Menu of Higher-Priced Items
   ----
   By Richard Gibson and Laurie M. Grossman
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
This new view of "value" is simultaneously putting more in
customer stomachs and in the chains' coffers. Combo meals
allow stores to steer customers toward items with higher
profit margins. McDonald's features Extra Value Meals. Burger
King pushes BK Meal Deals. And Wendy's offers Biggies, a line
of large sandwiches with fries and drinks to match.
   The chains are also expanding the concept of "value" to
include the quality of the food, service and restaurant
ambiance in addition to the price. "They realize that the way
you build loyalty is by some combination of values," says
Ronald Paul, a Chicago-based restaurant consultant. As for
out-and-out discounting, he says, "it's run its course."
   None too soon, some franchisees say. At discount-leader
Taco Bell (which itself has dropped a line of 39-cent
snacks), many independent store operators are rebelling
against the PepsiCo Inc. unit's pricing strategy. Franchisees
who own more than a third of the chain's 3,500 stores banded
together in January to form an independent group, in part
because of dissatisfaction with what they regard as overly
zealous pricing.
   "We went too far," says Ron Bellamy, president of the
franchisee group and owner of seven Taco Bell stores in Texas
and Oklahoma. He says many group members are ignoring Taco
Bell's guidelines and raising prices on some items normally
costing 59, 79 or 99 cents. Mr. Bellamy, for example, will
increase the price of soft tacos to 69 cents from 59 cents
and add a dime to the price of four items that had cost 79
cents.
   Other franchisees say such moves are necessary to revive
profits. "We had to increase prices slightly to break even
with the previous year," says Fred Kotoske, a Taco Bell
franchisee in Columbia, S.C., citing higher labor, insurance
and produce costs. Customers don't seem to mind the price
increases, he says, and traffic counts at his 10 stores
didn't drop.
   Taco Bell officials say they're sticking with the
low-price strategy that ignited the industry's price war. But
while the chain rang up big sales gains, in recent months its
profit growth has slowed sharply. Operating earnings
increases of 108% and 19% in the first two quarters last year
shrank to 2% in the third quarter and 5% in the fourth.
   And current Taco Bell ads feature a $1.99 steak burrito
that is among the priciest items on the Mexican chain's menu.
Franchisees like Mr. Kotoske say they're pleased that "the
emphasis is on re-establishing to the consumer that we have
items that are large, filling -- and value-priced."
   Featuring combo meals allows chains' counter employees to
push consumers toward more pricey items. "They clearly want
to sell drinks and fries," both high-margin items, says
Montgomery Securities restaurant analyst Michael Mueller.
   Image -- as well as profit -- is at stake. Some McDonald's
outlets had so many banners boasting low prices, "it looked
like the whole store was on sale," Mr. Paul says. Restaurant
analysts see companies keeping their discounted come-ons but
repackaging them as one of many ingredients in the value
equation.
   McDonald's franchisee Harvey Ross thinks he has found a
way to tie service to the search for a good deal. If patrons
of his Madison, N.C., stores are dissatisfied with their
overall dining experience, they can order themselves a free
lunch. "We guarantee hot, fast and friendly service or the
next meal is on us," Mr. Ross explains.
   "Value is more than the price you pay," adds a spokesman
for McDonald's. He says the company's new advertising
campaign -- "What you want is what you get" -- reflects that
idea. The Extra Value menu will be a permanent part of that,
he says.
   While discounting helped prop up traffic as the recession
swept the country, some chains found themselves offering too
much of a good deal and have backed off.
   Sizzler International Inc., a 650-store steakhouse chain,
says so many customers were opting for its Buffet Court, a
salad bar with hot food, that the average meal checks dropped
5%. "It had gone well beyond 50% of our menu mix," a company
spokesman says. To recoup, Sizzler is testing a steak menu
featuring New York and other higher-quality cuts designed to
raise average dinner prices.
   Arby's Inc. abandoned a test of bargain-basement pricing
on some roast beef sandwiches because "it ran counter to the
quality image we sell," a spokesman for the DWG Corp. unit
says. Instead, Arby's is promoting combo meals and will soon
introduce a line of submarine sandwiches starting at around
$2.59.
   In fact, a test of items grouped by price flopped at
Captain D's, a seafood chain. "It was terribly confusing,"
says Leonard Roberts, chairman and chief executive officer of
the company's parent, Shoney's Inc.
   Low pricing has other problems. KFC franchisee John R.
Neal in Columbia, Tenn., says selling cheap chicken snacks,
like two pieces and a biscuit for $1.29, hurt profit margins
and cannibalized sales of full meals. He worries that if
customers go away unfilled, they may not come back. Instead,
KFC, another Pepsico unit, is emphasizing deals on full meals
and chicken buckets, using limited-time price promotions on
smaller items.
   "There's an effort to push the more expensive items on the
menu," says Michael Mueller, a restaurant analyst at
Montgomery Securities.
   Still, cheap food seems here to stay in some fashion.
Wendy's International Inc., which says under-$1 specials
helped its fortunes, plans a line of salads-to-go ranging
from a 99-cent Caesar salad to one with grilled chicken
pieces that costs three times that much.
   Analysts are closely watching Taco Bell for the definitive
test of how low pricing fares long term. They say that after
establishing itself as the discount leader, the chain would
have a tough time abandoning that image. "They are a
potential victim of their own success," says Hugh Zurkuhlen
of Weiss, Peck  Greer. He thinks that inflation and other
economic factors will eventually push prices up.
   But Taco Bell executives say the chain isn't retreating.
It's even testing a lower-priced version of its "value menu,"
charging 10 cents less an item, in two markets. "Our
customers' focus on price is unchanged," says Tim Ryan,
senior vice president, marketing. "Value continues to be the
primary driver."