What's News --
   World-Wide
U.S. officials say they have been pressuring Israel for
months to halt the practice. Israeli officials have
repeatedly denied any wrongdoing.
   ---
   The House voted to disclose the names of 24 current and
former members who were the worst abusers in the
check-writing scandal. Lawmakers were moving toward a plan to
release the names of all 355 current and former member who
wrote bad checks. Earlier, Jack Russ, the House
sergeant-at-arms, quit amid the scandal.
   ---
   The U.N. Security Council demanded that Iraq comply
immediately with Gulf War cease-fire resolutions, rebuffing
an appeal for leniency from Saddam Hussein's envoy. At the
White House, King Hussein told Bush that Jordan agreed with
U.N. efforts to secure Iraqi compliance.
                                                                                                       

   Iraq advised Security Council members that Baghdad is
willing to resume talks on U.N.-monitored exports of its oil.
Crude oil futures slipped briefly in New York and London on
the news, which renewed the possibility of Iraqi oil flowing
into world oil markets again soon.
   ---
   Buchanan should bow out of the GOP presidential race,
Republican National Committee Chairman Bond said. Bond told a
news conference in Houston that Buchanan can't beat President
Bush and should, in the name of party unity, stop attacking
him. A day earlier, Buchanan urged Bond to quit.
                                                                                                       

   Tsongas questioned Clinton's character and electability,
and the Arkansas governor countered that his Democratic rival
was desperate. The two candidates shuttled between Illinois
and Michigan in advance of Tuesday's contests.
   ---
   Ukrainian leader Kravchuk halted the shipment of tactical
nuclear weapons to Russia for dismantling, saying he wants
firm assurances the weapons will be destroyed rather than
redeployed by the Russians. Kravchuk, in his unexpected
announcement, suggested Western nations should help Ukraine
build its own dismantling facility.
   ---
   A potential new drug was reported for the treatment of a
lethal AIDS-related skin cancer, Kaposi's sarcoma. The report
on the experimental drug, by a Japanese-American team of
researchers, appears in this week's Science magazine.
   ---
   Azerbaijanis and Armenians exchanged rocket fire in
villages across the disputed enclave of Nagorno-Karabakh.
Russia, meanwhile, hinted it was ready to pull the former
Soviet army out of the region. The parliament of Belarus
passed a resolution to withdraw its own troops from Armenia,
Azerbaijan and Georgia.
   ---
   New York police said Dominican and Colombian drug gangs
are prime suspects in Wednesday's shooting death of
Cuban-born journalist and anti-drug activist Manuel de Dios
Unanue. The 49-year-old former editor of the city's largest
Spanish-language newspaper, El Diario-La Prensa, had written
a number of books about the cocaine trade.
   ---
   A spokesman for U.N. peacekeepers said that Serb-Croat
clashes in Croatia wouldn't prevent deployment of up to
14,000 troops in the breakaway Yugoslav republic. In
Belgrade, thousands of students rallied for a fourth day to
demand the resignation of hard-line Serbian President
Milosevic.
   ---
   Seven black-ruled African nations urged South Africa's
whites to vote against apartheid in Tuesday's referendum and
to continue political negotiations with blacks there. In
Johannesburg, the African National Congress warned that
recent violence in South Africa's black townships could cause
whites to reject political reforms.
   ---
   North Korea's vice president disputed U.S. claims that a
freighter from his country carried a load of Scud missiles to
Iran Monday after the ship ignored Pentagon warnings that it
might be stopped. In Damascus, meanwhile, Syrian President
Assad accused the U.S. of acting as a pirate by threatening
to halt the ship.