Recycling's Invisible Costs
   ----
   By Lynn Scarlett
Proponents of these regulations take too narrow a view of
costs. It's time they took a broader view. The Federal
Register, the compendium of federal regulations that serves
as a proxy measure of regulatory trends at the state and
local level, swelled by more than 65,000 pages in 1991 alone.
In a Nov. 30 National Journal article, Jonathan Rauch pointed
out that this is the "third-highest page count in history"
and that government spending on regulatory efforts was 22%
higher (in inflation-adjusted dollars) in 1991 than in
President Carter's final year in office.
   Even this, however, fails to capture the full cost of
burgeoning regulation. Toting up the out-of-pocket bucks
companies spend on meeting regulatory requirements offers
little insight into the impact regulations have on particular
industries. For example:
   -- The estimated $12 billion annual cost of hazardous
waste regulations represents barely 0.2% of the gross
national product -- hardly, it would seem, a major burden on
the overall economy. But this sum is equivalent to 6% of all
new investment in plant and equipment in manufacturing,
according to Paul Portney of Resources for the Future.
   -- The Southern California regulations aimed at paints,
coatings and solvents target only about 5% of the region's
air emissions but would account for two-thirds of all job
losses associated with the region's air quality plan.
   -- To serve 450 meals daily in one Tennessee elementary
school, the cost of using disposable service-ware comes to
$3,205 for a 176-day school year. To serve the same number of
meals on reusable ware would cost $12,413. Meal planners
typically can spend around $2.00 per school lunch served. If
the costs of forks and plates quadruples, that leaves less
for expenditure on food. This can mean serving children
9-cent hot dogs instead of turkey sandwiches.
   -- A shampoo manufacturer can bring in one truckload of
"virgin" plastic pellets to make a batch of containers
in-house and fill them. Making those same containers with
recycled material -- a more complex process -- can't be done
in-house. This means bringing 17 truckloads of empty
containers to the shampoo plant, which means more drivers,
more vehicles, and more fuel, as well as more air pollution.
   -- Sixty-five one-pound rectangular "brick packs" of
coffee, which could be pushed off the market if recycled
content legislation were passed, result in 3 pounds of waste.
The same number of metal containers, which are readily
recyclable and can be made from recycled material, yield 20
pounds of waste. In other words, more than 80% of metal
coffee containers would have to be recycled in order to match
the reductions in waste of the throwaway brick pack.
   So far, federal agencies have made no attempt to get at
these complex, indirect costs in their assessment of
regulations. A few economists, however, have tried to come up
with a "big-picture" look at some regulatory costs. The
results are striking.
   While the Environmental Protection Agency calculates that
the costs of the Clean Air and Clean Water Acts amounted to
$648 billion between 1981 and 1990, economists Michael
Hazilla and Raymond Kopp peg the costs at $977 billion. Mr.
Hazilla and Mr. Kopp look not only at the cost of investing
in pollution abatement equipment, but also at a host of
ripple effects that are borne by all industries -- increased
consumer costs, which lead to reduced savings, which mean
decreases in investment, which mean a slowing of economic
growth.
   If President Bush wants to lift the pessimistic pall that
currently besets American industry, he could start by putting
all proposed regulations under stricter scrutiny: Will they
yield any real benefits? At what probable direct cost? And
most important, how are the proposed regulations likely to
filter through the economy setting in motion a host of
indirect costs? Reviewing regulations that would interfere
with basic market price signals about resource use -- like
those now proposed for solid waste and packaging -- would be
a good place to start.
   ---
   Miss Scarlett is vice president of the Reason Foundation
in Los Angeles.