International:
   Staying Power of Japan's Prime Minister
   Is Clouded by New Political Scandals
   ----
   By Christopher J. Chipello
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
For Mr. Miyazawa, who got off to a shaky start as prime
minister in the last two months of 1991, these are ominous
developments.
   Mr. Miyazawa and aides rejected suggestions that some of
the bribes allegedly taken by Fumio Abe, a senior member of
Mr. Miyazawa's political party faction, may have found their
way into the faction's campaign chest. But opposition parties
are pledging to pursue that question in the Diet session that
starts Jan. 24. The opposition also promises to leave no
stone unturned when it resumes an inquiry, suspended at the
end of the last session, into Mr. Miyazawa's connection to
the Recruit influence-peddling scandal of the late 1980s. The
fresh whiff of scandal might also give the opposition an
excuse to bottle up budget legislation for the fiscal year
that begins April 1.
   Messy scandals and stalled legislation would damage the
ruling Liberal Democratic Party's prospects in Upper House
elections scheduled for mid-year. Heavy losses in the
chamber, where the LDP already is short of a majority, could
mean an early end to Mr. Miyazawa's term as party head and
prime minister. Analysts were already predicting serious
problems for Mr. Miyazawa, following his failure to win
passage of a bill that would have permitted Japanese troops
to participate in United Nations peacekeeping operations.
   Newspaper editorials yesterday argued that Mr. Abe's
alleged acceptance of 80 million yen ($629,680) in bribes
from a steel-products maker is further evidence that Japan's
political system needs to be cleaned up. The daily Yomiuri
Shimbun noted that the latest case brings the number of major
corruption cases involving Diet members to 15 since World War
II.
   Japanese newspapers reported that Mr. Abe is alleged to
have used his post as director-general of the Hokkaido
Development Agency to help Kyowa Corp., a now-bankrupt steel
company, win construction projects in Hokkaido, Japan's
northernmost island. Mr. Abe denied the allegations during
questioning by prosecutors yesterday, according to NHK,
Japan's public broadcasting company.
   Meanwhile, another long-rumored scandal is heating up.
Major Japanese newspapers in the past two weeks have reported
that executives of Tokyo Sagawa Kyubin, a package delivery
service with alleged underworld connections, may have made
huge political contributions to scores of politicians. Some
accounts said the company sought political help in winning
permits needed to expand its business. The company is
reported to be under investigation by law enforcement
authorities.
   A Tokyo police spokesman declined to comment on reports
that Tokyo Sagawa had filed a complaint against two former
executives for breach of trust, in connection with loans
allegedly funneled to gangster-affiliated businesses. A
spokeswoman for Tokyo Sagawa said no one who could comment on
the reports was available.
   Mr. Miyazawa took office last year after Prime Minister
Toshiki Kaifu failed to win Diet approval for a package of
reform bills that would have reshaped the electoral system
and reduced the importance of money in political campaigns.
The proposals were resisted by opposition parties and many
LDP members, who feared the changes would endanger their
seats.
   Mr. Miyazawa has pledged to push for passage of a revised
political-reform package. But he will first have to answer
lingering questions about his own connection to the Recruit
scandal, in which many senior politicians received
bargain-priced shares in an unlisted affiliate of Recruit
Co., an information-services concern. Opposition politicians
contend that documents submitted by Mr. Miyazawa to the Diet
last month suggest that he may have known more about the
Recruit scandal than he has acknowledged. The scandal
prompted Mr. Miyazawa's resignation as finance minister in
late 1988, after it was learned that one of his aides traded
in the shares. Mr. Miyazawa maintains that the aide acted on
his own.