Democrats' Health Insurance Measure
   Clears Panel, Advances to Senate Floor
   ----
   By Hilary Stout
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The vote -- which came less than a week before President
Bush is scheduled to disclose details of his own plan to mend
the nation's health system -- was viewed as a political move
to upstage him. The president is expected to propose a
variety of tax breaks to help people buy health insurance as
well as changes to make such coverage cheaper and easier to
obtain.
   Democrats declared yesterday that the administration's
proposals fall far short of the aim of their bill, and
Majority Leader George Mitchell (D., Maine) vowed to bring it
to a full Senate vote this year. But Labor Secretary Lynn
Martin and Health and Human Services Secretary Louis Sullivan
said they would recommend that Mr. Bush veto the legislation.
   "This legislation is also a benchmark to measure the
proposals by the president in his State of the Union
message," Sen. Edward Kennedy (D., Mass.), the committee
chairman and one of the chief authors of the bill, said in an
opening statement. "In my view, no program can be
satisfactory unless it meets two basic tests: It must
guarantee affordable health insurance to every American, and
it must bring soaring health costs under control."
   But while Democrats used yesterday's vote to claim the
upper-hand on health -- an issue that has leaped to the fore
of voters' concerns and politicians' rhetoric -- the bill
also underscores the party's struggles on the issue.
   The legislation approved yesterday is in fact a
watered-down version of a bill that Sen. Mitchell introduced
in June, along with Sens. Kennedy, John Rockefeller (D.,
W.Va.) and Donald Riegle (D., Mich.). It was stripped of all
financing provisions in order to sidestep review by the
Senate Finance Committee, whose chairman, Lloyd Bentsen (D.,
Texas), has been reluctant to take action on the original
legislation.
   Although Mr. Bentsen has repeatedly said he supports
comprehensive healthcare revision, he contends that it isn't
yet politically feasible. Consequently, he has been pushing a
more modest bill that would make it easier for small
businesses to buy health insurance and would prohibit
insurance companies from dropping people with pre-existing
medical conditions.
   Mr. Bentsen now is under huge pressure to take up the
financing of the Mitchell bill. Aides said he hasn't decided
what to do, but speculated that he didn't have the votes in
the committee to approve the bill in its current form.
   Mr. Mitchell has also had trouble galvanizing support for
his bill among other Senate Democrats. Sen. Bob Kerrey of
Nebraska, a candidate for the Democratic presidential
nomination, has been trumpeting his own health-care bill,
which would set up a government-financed system of national
health insurance. Even before voting in favor of the measure
yesterday, numerous Democratic members of the Labor Committee
said they would prefer a government-run approach, modeled
after Canada's system.
   In the House, meanwhile, another prominent Democrat, Ways
and Means Committee Chairman Dan Rostenkowski of Illinois,
said major health-care legislation this year was unlikely.
"We may make some incremental progress at the margins that
will help a small number of people," he said. Mr.
Rostenkowski has introduced both a sweeping health-care bill,
similar to the Mitchell proposal, and a smaller-scale measure
that would reform the health-insurance market.
   The bill approved yesterday would require all employers to
provide a core package of benefits to employees or pay a
still-undetermined percentage of their payroll into a
public-health plan. That package would include coverage of:
hospital and physician services, diagnostic tests, prenatal
and well-baby care, some mental-health services, and
preventive-health services such as mammograms and pap smears.
The public program, to be called AmeriCare, would provide
those benefits to anyone not covered by an employer.
AmeriCare would replace Medicaid, the current federal-state
health program for the poor; people over 65 would still be
covered by Medicare.
   To rein in costs, the bill would set up a "federal health
expenditure board" that would set national health spending
goals and negotiate rates with hospitals, doctors and
consumers to reach those goals. If negotiations should break
down, the board would set the rates itself.
   The measure also contains provisions allowing states to
opt out of the system and set up Canadian-style programs or
other systems providing universal coverage.
   While Republicans on the committee praised the move toward
health-care revision, they denounced the bill before them.
Utah Sen. Orrin Hatch, the ranking GOP member, called it
"just plain bad public policy."
   Mr. Hatch and his fellow Republicans repeatedly warned of
a centrally controlled system with government-price
regulations, making frequent allusions to the collapsed
Soviet economy.