International:
   Israelis Are Making a Campaign Issue
   Of Stance by U.S. on Loan Guarantees
   ----
   By Amy Dockser Marcus
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Prime Minister Yitzhak Shamir's allies have stepped up
criticism of the U.S., saying the Bush administration is
threatening to withhold the guarantees as a way to push
Israel back to its pre-1967 borders and to boost the election
chances of the new Labor Party head, Yitzhak Rabin, because
he would be more willing to do America's bidding.
   The depth of tension between the two countries was evident
after a U.S. newspaper reported that Secretary of State James
Baker, in a private conversation, used an expletive to
dismiss concern over the loss of U.S. Jewish voters because
of the administration's stand on the loan guarantees.
Transport Minister Moshe Katsav, who is being considered to
head the Likud bloc's re-election drive, said he didn't
believe the State Department's denial of the report.
   "Moshe Katsav's remark is just the first sign of things to
come," says Ze'ev Chafets, an Israeli journalist who headed
the Government Press Office under Prime Minister Menachem
Begin. "There is a lot of resentment over the loan guarantees
issue and it's going to be expressed."
   Mr. Rabin, the Labor Party head, has acted quickly to
counter suggestions that he would give in to U.S. pressure.
He said he opposes any outside interference in Israeli
domestic affairs. He also made it clear that while he favors
a freeze on "political settlements" in the occupied
territories, he would continue building in East Jerusalem and
outlying areas around the capital.
   Moreover, the Labor Party is also trying to turn the
current political situation to its advantage. "The loan
guarantees are the symptom of a graver problem. The Likud's
policy of deception destroyed the special relationship Israel
had with our one and best ally, and we will tell voters that
we are going to repair and rebuild it after June," says
Ephraim Sneh, who is active in Mr. Rabin's campaign.
   Yisrael Harel, chairman of the Council of Jewish
Communities in Judea, Samaria, and Gaza -- Israelis call the
West Bank by its ancient names, Judea and Samaria -- says
trying to use the U.S.-Israel rift to create a nationalist
backlash against Mr. Rabin won't work. Instead, Mr. Harel
urges Mr. Shamir to declare that he is withdrawing the
request for the loan guarantees. "Israelis would rally around
him. It would give the elections a whole different
dimension," says Mr. Harel.
   While a number of Mr. Shamir's allies have made similar
suggestions, Mr. Shamir has rejected their advice. "Prime
Minister Shamir is still hopeful that Israel will receive the
guarantees, and he has no intention of withdrawing the
request," says Ehud Gol, his spokesman.
   Israeli political analysts say that by continuing to
negotiate with the U.S., Mr. Shamir can counter criticism
from the Labor Party that he sacrificed the guarantees for
settlements, and can avoid a messy confrontation with his
right-wing constituency, which opposes any compromise on
settlements to secure the guarantees.
   "This way he can go to Israeli voters and say, `See, we're
trying, it's the Americans who aren't being flexible,'" says
Ronald Kronish, director of the Israel office of the American
Jewish Committee.
   Nonetheless, the current anti-U.S. tone has come in for
criticism. Foreign Minister David Levy warned the Israeli
parliament this week that "there is no substitute for the
United States" and urged the legislators not to portray the
U.S. as Israel's enemy.
   Mr. Chafets, the journalist, questions how much political
capital is to be gained by taking on the Bush administration.
"Bashing the Great Satan in Washington may play well in Syria
or Iran," he says, "but here in Israel there are just too
many people who love America."