Los Angeles Decision to Pick Sumitomo
   For Rail-Car Contract Prompts Dispute
   ----
   By Sonia L. Nazario
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The rejected bid, a $116 million proposal by Morrison
Knudsen Co., Boise, Idaho, would have created 4,900 U.S.
jobs, compared with the 1,750 domestic jobs to be created by
the Japanese company's winning bid.
   Under pressure from all sides, the two companies last
night said they were in "serious negotiations" about forming
some sort of partnership in which Morrison Knudsen would be a
"serious and substantive participant" in building the Metro
line. If an arrangement isn't reached, the award, made Dec.
18, will be reconsidered at a meeting this month.
   Controversy over the Los Angeles County Transportation
Commission's award to the Japanese concern is linked to
mounting frustruation over widespread layoffs in aerospace
and other big Southern California industries. And the
anti-Japanese sentiment it reflects sharpened even more
yesterday, as President Bush was coming home with what seemed
to be meager results from an Asian visit in which he sought
to improve the nation's trade position.
   "To take this kind of money to Japan is absolutely wrong.
It's un-American," Los Angeles City Councilman Nate Holden
said. He said the city should go with a U.S. company even if
its bid is 10% higher than a foreign one's. A domestic bid
would create jobs and have other favorable effects locally,
he said.
   But the city's transportation commission takes a different
view. "Our job is to provide a safe system that's on time and
works," said Jacki Bacharach, who sits on the 11-member
commission. To that group, the Japanese bid was clearly
superior because of the managerial skills and other expertise
Sumitomo has in building such cars. Morrison Knudsen, the
only U.S. concern that builds such cars and thus the only
U.S. bidder for the contract, is new at the game, she said,
and has yet to deliver its first car to a customer.
   The commission's award, she added, reflected concern that
the traffic-clogged Los Angeles area can't afford to take a
chance on such inexperience. She said the commission found
that after taking into account Sumitomo's experience, the
Japanese concern was more likely to bring the rail cars in on
time and as budgeted, making it more cost-effective.
   A spokesman for Morrison Knudsen said, "As a matter of
economic principle, we beat them. And we have the higher
domestic content of work."
   After being besieged by critics, the commission has rushed
to note that most costs of building the Green Line are
domestic costs. Rail cars, for example, are only 12% of the
budget and account for 2% of the project's total jobs, most
of which are construction-related.
   The 20-mile Green Line, scheduled to open in 1995, will
link the suburban cities of Norwalk and El Segundo with Los
Angeles International Airport.
   The Los Angeles City Council had voted unanimously to ask
the commission to reconsider its award. Nine U.S. congressmen
put further pressure on the commission, arguing in a letter
that city efforts to win federal funding for future transit
projects could be grounded if contracts are awarded to
foreigners. The Metro Line system, a 400-mile network that
would be the nation's second largest urban rail-transit
system when completed, is a major part of a 30-year, $150
billion Los Angeles public works project to improve highway,
bus and rail systems.
   Los Angeles Mayor Tom Bradley yesterday was feverishly
seeking to get Sumitomo and Morrison Knudsen to agree on a
partnership. "We believe Morrison Knudsen is qualified to do
this project," said Deputy Mayor Mark Fabiani.
   In Sacramento, Assemblyman Richard Katz, chairman of the
state Assembly's Transportation Committee, planned to
introduce a bill requiring cities that get state
transportation funding to give preference to state and local
firms in future contracts.
   Already in operation here is a Blue Line between Long
Beach and downtown Los Angeles, for which rail cars were
built by Sumitomo. A Red Line, scheduled to begin operating
next year from the city's downtown Union Station west to the
Wilshire district, purchased cars from an Italian firm.