Politics  Policy:
   Card Is Named
   Transportation
   Agency Chief
   ----
   By Laurie McGinley
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Mr. Card, 44, has been deputy chief of staff for three
years, but his professional and personal ties with Mr. Bush
stretch back more than a decade.
   A former Massachusetts state legislator, Mr. Card worked
on the Bush campaign in that state in 1980 -- "back when Bush
was 3% in the polls in terms of name recognition," said
Robert Marsh, a friend of Mr. Card's and the assistant
Republican whip in the Massachusetts House.
   An unsuccessful candidate for governor of Massachusetts in
1982, the nominee worked in the Reagan White House. And in
1988, he served as campaign manager for Mr. Bush in the
Republican presidential primary in New Hampshire, where Mr.
Bush won. As Mr. Sununu's deputy, he won high marks for a
down-to-earth, accessible style and for keeping the White
House functioning while controversy engulfed Mr. Sununu. Mr.
Card's brother-in-law is Ron Kaufman, White House political
director.
   If confirmed by the Senate, he will fill the vacancy left
by former Transportation Secretary Samuel Skinner, who
succeeded Mr. Sununu as White House chief of staff in
mid-December.
   "He's a very skilled political conciliator," said Thomas
Rath, former attorney general of New Hampshire. "He knows how
to deal with differing interests and try to work out
resolutions. He is a force independent of John Sununu. He has
a direct relationship with the president that ought to serve
him well."
   But some transportation groups raised questions about his
lack of experience in the field. Phil Boyer, president of the
Aircraft Owners and Pilots Association, which represents
about 300,000 private pilots, said he was disappointed that
the job didn't go to Ms. Hallett, who is a private pilot and
works with aviation groups in her current post. Mr. Skinner
also is a private pilot, but Mr. Card isn't.
   Mr. Card was mentioned for the transport job from the
beginning, and he was supported by Charles Black, a
Republican lobbyist and senior adviser to the Bush/Quayle
re-election campaign. But in recent weeks, administration
officials said that the odds favored Ms. Hallett. They said
that as a woman with strong ties to California, she would be
an asset on the campaign trail.
   In recent weeks, however, things changed. Mr. Card, who
was thought to have the inside track for a lucrative new job
as the president of the Association of American Railroads,
didn't get the job after all. The trade group decided that
federal ethics rules would have greatly hurt Mr. Card's
effectiveness, according to people familiar with the
situation. He wouldn't have been allowed to lobby the White
House for a year after his departure. The trade association
declined to comment on the matter.
   In addition, administration officials said, Sen. Bob
Packwood (R., Ore.) raised objections to Ms. Hallett because
of her treatment of Nike Inc., the Oregon-based footwear
manufacturer, in a customs-fees dispute.