LEISURE  ARTS -- Bookshelf:
   Graft, Back in the U.S.S.R.
   ----
   By Peter Gumbel
Constraints on the press have gone the same way as the
Soviet Union itself, and Mr. Vaksberg has now decided to pour
out the contents of his notebooks, disclosing a lot more
about the everyday abuses of power in the former Soviet Union
than he could ever write in his newspaper.
   "The Soviet Mafia" is a catalog of the seedy, fawning and
corrupt elite that ran the superpower into the ground, paving
the way for its ultimate collapse. We are shown in detail how
local Communist Party bosses in southern Russia, Uzbekistan,
Kazakhstan and elsewhere grew fat and happy by defrauding the
system they were supposed to be governing, and then covering
their tracks with threats and bribes.
   Some of the anecdotes are well-known in the former Soviet
Union and also have been reported in the West. The Uzbek
leadership's blatant manipulation of its cotton harvest
figures -- deliberately inflated so it could pocket the extra
money from Moscow central planners -- became a cause celebre
during the early Gorbachev years and led to a complete purge
of the republic's leadership.
   Other tidbits are new and hilarious, worthy of Gogol. Mr.
Vaksberg describes how the leader of Azerbaijan took Leonid
Brezhnev on a fishing expedition and paid divers to hang fish
on the old man's hook in order to ensure that he had a good
day. My favorite is the story of the KGB major stationed in
Beirut who didn't have time to spy because he had to deal
with inane requests from his secret-service bosses in Moscow,
including sending them tins of olive oil and arranging for
visiting dignitaries to attend striptease shows. The Soviet
Embassy financed these expenditures by selling off all its
official cars and telling Moscow that they had been destroyed
in fighting between Christian and Muslim militias.
   Sadly, Mr. Vaksberg doesn't make best use of the rich,
sometimes astonishing, material he has collected over the
years. Most of the anecdotes speak for themselves. But the
author, perhaps because he never was able to generalize in
his newspaper articles, now goes too far the other way,
trying to force the details into a broad and spurious thesis.
Soviet corruption was so rampant, he claims, that the economy
and the entire political system were mere pawns in the hands
of shadowy mafia groups.
   He labors the point so hard that "The Soviet Mafia" ends
up reading like a collection of turgid and repetitive
editorials. Yet he doesn't back up his argument with
incontrovertible evidence, or even clarify who these shadowy
groups really are. At times, he uses the term "mafia" in the
Western sense, to describe organized gangs of criminals, the
sort of people who fix fruit prices in farmer's markets
around the nation, run extortion rackets or steal Western aid
parcels and then resell them. More often, though, he uses the
term loosely. "The whole political regime of the country in
all its guises for the last seventy years is itself a mafia;
a despotic totalitarian regime cannot be otherwise," he
writes.
   There are two problems with this. The first is that
reducing Stalin to the role of Don Corleone merely
trivializes the atrocities of the Gulag, in which millions of
people died. It's a bit like calling Hitler a hoodlum.
Secondly, if the Soviet Union had just been a playground for
gangsters, how is it that two men who set out to fight
corruption, Yuri Andropov and Mikhail Gorbachev, ever rose to
become the nation's leaders? Mr. Vaksberg argues weakly that
it was just one mafia faction against another in the battle
for power. But, as he makes clear himself when he writes
about his best sources, there were many law-enforcement and
court officials who refused to succumb to political or
financial pressure.
   Mr. Vaksberg's book is thus not "a shocking expose of
organized crime in the U.S.S.R.," as its subtitle would have
us believe. Rather, it is a sad illustration of how a rich
and proud nation can be plundered and ruined by a few men and
their cronies abusing an unchecked monopoly on power. The
Soviet Union insisted that it was morally superior to
capitalist countries. But, as Mr. Vaksberg makes clear, in
the dying days of the Soviet Union, kickbacks were the real
currency, and toadying the required etiquette of power.
   ---
   Mr. Gumbel, the Journal's Moscow bureau chief for nearly
four years, is now Paris bureau chief.