LEISURE  ARTS -- Bookshelf:
   Short but Rich Stories
   ----
   By Richard Locke
I offer this historical sketch to explain the enthusiastic
praise that greeted Deborah Eisenberg's remarkable first book
of stories, "Transactions in a Foreign Currency," when it
appeared six years ago and to prepare the reader for my own
bedazzled admiration for her equally impressive new
collection, "Under the 82nd Airborne" (Farrar, Straus 
Giroux, 293 pages, $20).
   Ms. Eisenberg writes big, risky, quick but thickly
textured fiction that has the energy, breadth and social
imagination we associate with large seriocomic novels. Her
characters keep bumping into progressively larger networks of
people and ideas. Their initial, anxious inexperience or
solipsism is rebuked and defeated by the momentum of other
lives. But somehow Ms. Eisenberg has managed to achieve the
electric density of the best short fiction without
overcrowding. She never simplifies her subjects; indeed, she
tends to expand rapidly the number of ideas and feelings and
characters as she goes along. She's perceptually and
intellectually almost profligate, but never imprecise. Her
narrative voice can have a magisterial ironic omniscience and
wit -- her diction can be superb -- but, for all her art, she
never induces aesthetic claustrophobia: She's never precious,
finicky, so preoccupied with literary form that she squeezes
things to perfection. Her stories are unexpectedly generous.
   They can be very funny too, but the most recurrent word in
them, I think, is terror. Her characters are profoundly
disoriented, adrift, traveling, panicked, but always,
willy-nilly, intensely social creatures, moving through a
thick realistic context. The range of generations, classes
and settings -- even the number of interwoven characters --
is exceptional.
   In the title story -- a grand admixture of personal,
social and political themes -- a needy, guilty, out-of-work
actress in her 40s visits her 20-year-old daughter in
Honduras in the midst of military maneuvers. The effect in a
mere 40 pages is of a comprehensive, sardonic, Conradian
political novel. In another story set in Central America, a
middle-aged hack travel writer (ex-Princeton, formerly a
banker), accompanied by his much younger girlfriend, covers
the cuisine and the Holy Week celebrations in a town
threatened equally by tourists, guerrillas and the national
security forces. The climactic scene, arising from the
sympathetic, self-justifying monologue of a young daughter of
a coffee plantation owner, refuses both leftist and
conservative cliches. The characters' political responses are
inseparable from their particular emotional and social
situations: Their opinions are gestures.
   This deep contextualization is even more brilliantly done
in a story that traces a year in the "gummy jungle" of a
Greenwich Village friendship between a nerdy 35-year-old
would-be bohemian writer ("We were proud to be wretched
refuse. We had bookstores.") and a newly arrived 20-something
would-be graphic designer (grateful to have an all-night job
as a waitress), who discovers with a "jolt that life was
something to be waged, rather than relied on."
   Ms. Eisenberg is particularly sensitive to adolescents. In
one story, two suburban babysitters (one sleek and
middle-class, the other chunky and poor) fall head over heels
for a glamorous, promiscuous college teacher and his pretty
wife and children. In another, ferociously international
story, set in London, an American teenager, her older German
brother and his Hungarian emigre lover bounce off each
others' lives and expectations.
   Even when Ms. Eisenberg addresses somewhat familiar glossy
subjects (a movie star in his 30s does coke with a drug
dealer's young girlfriend) or offers variations on classic
New Yorker magazine situations (a suburban dinner party), she
works in greater depth than usual. The dinner-party story
swirls around theft, adultery, social manipulation, race,
politics, emotional blackmail and the fantasy of happy family
life in the cozy suburbs. The young mother in the center of
this nest of vipers senses but never understands the
duplicity she's married to.
   At a time when literary novels are often prolix and
elephantine, Ms. Eisenberg's short stories -- richer and far
better written -- suggest that (in her hands) less is more
indeed.