Container Shipping's Inventor Plans
   To Start Florida-Puerto Rico Service
   ----
   By Daniel Machalaba
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Mr. McLean's goal to be a low-cost carrier has raised
prospects of heightened competition and rate cutting for the
$800 million a year ocean freight market between the U.S. and
Puerto Rico. About half the revenue is generated on the
Jacksonville-San Juan route, which is currently marked by
slow or no growth.
   "Any new entrant is a threat in a trade where there isn't
significant natural growth in cargo volume," said Michael
Cohen, a principal at Mercer Management Consulting, formerly
Temple, Barker  Sloane, in Lexington, Mass.
   The service is designed to compete with companies
operating between Jacksonville and San Juan, which include
CSX Corp.'s Sea-Land Service Inc., Navieras de Puerto Rico,
Crowley Maritime Corp.'s Trailer Marine Transport and Marine
Transportation Sea-Barge Group Inc.
   Mr. McLean said that he seeks a competitive advantage by
picking up and delivering freight in 48-foot highway trailers
that have a larger capacity and offer potential cost savings
compared with the smaller containers or trailers usually
operated by competitors.
   He said he has invested more than $25 million of his
personal funds in the venture, the assets of which include
two 487-foot barges acquired at a maritime auction and
approximately 1,000 48-foot-long highway trailers. Mr. McLean
said Trailer Bridge could eventually generate truck and barge
revenue of $60 million to $70 million a year.
   "With a modern trailer we'll be able to have a better cost
structure," said the 78-year-old Mr. McLean in an interview.
By Mr. McLean's estimates, highway transport accounts for
about 70% of the cost of shipping freight between the U.S.
and Puerto Rico. "We think we can reduce the shipping costs
on land" with larger trailers, he said.
   Mr. McLean has long been interested in cutting transport
costs. A former North Carolina trucker, he loaded freight
trailers on a converted tanker in 1956 to begin the container
era in global shipping. In the mid-1980s, he tried to remake
shipping once again by building a dozen very large container
ships and deploying them on a round-the-world route. Battered
by competition, rate wars and big losses, the venture ended
in bankruptcy and liquidation of Mr. McLean's shipping
assets.
   An executive of a shipping line operating between the U.S.
and Puerto Rico played down the competitive threat from Mr.
McLean's latest venture. Ronald Gabbett, a vice president of
Sea-Land Service, said the 10% boost in capacity Mr. McLean
will bring to the Jacksonville-San Juan route "isn't
significant."
   "We're ready to act where necessary to protect our market
share" from competitors charging lower rates, said Mr.
Gabbett, adding that Sea-Land provides superior service
because the company operates container ships between
Jacksonville and San Juan, which are nearly twice as fast as
barges.
   "Freight is in a hurry, but most of the time it is in a
hurry to wait," said Mr. McLean, who places his emphasis on
reducing transport costs. "There's nothing to the
transportation business but picking up and delivering and
what it costs."