International:
   World Wire
   ----
   Compiled by Richard L. Holman
Beijing will seek foreign loans, technology and parts in
building a huge hydroelectric dam estimated to cost at least
57 billion yuan ($10.46 billion).
   China's Legislature is expected late next month to approve
the Three Gorges dam on the Yangtze River after decades of
planning and disputes about displacing more than one million
people from their homes. The dam, which will take about 15
years to build, is to generate 17.7 million kilowatts of
electricity, compared with 12.6 million kilowatts by Itaipu
in Brazil, the world's largest hydroelectric project.
   "We need foreign experience during construction," a Water
Resources Ministry official said. "And we are interested in
securing foreign loans. We can also cooperate with leading
foreign companies to manufacture some parts."
   China plans to invest 34 billion yuan this year to expand
its power output by building 24 hydroelectric stations, 51
thermal plants and 223 electricity substations. The country
has a severe electricity shortage that causes outages
regularly in most industrialized areas.
                                                                                                       

   BRAZIL ACTS TO BOOST TRADE
                                                                                                       

   Brazil unveiled measures to boost exports and imports.
Brasilia will issue $1 billion in federal bonds to help
finance exports, and increase the number of products that get
direct export subsidies. The plan is expected to help
generate an additional $3 billion of exports this year. To
stimulate imports, tariffs averaging 24% are to fall to 17%
by July 1993. The package is aimed at modernizing industry
and stimulating competition, President Fernando Collor de
Mello said. He also urged state governments to cut steep
levies on exports such as soybeans and beef.
                                                                                                       

   INDONESIAN BANKS' OWNERSHIP
                                                                                                       

   Indonesia within a year will allow state-owned banks to
offer shares to the public, including foreigners, Parliament
decided. But foreign investors would be barred from buying
majority stakes, allowing Jakarta to maintain control. The
seven big banks also are to get greater flexibility as
limited-liability corporations, and mergers will be allowed.
                                                                                                       

   SOUTH AFRICA'S CORPORATE TAX
                                                                                                       

   Finance Minister Barend du Plessis said South Africa still
intends to cut the corporate tax rate to 40% from 48%. But he
told an international investment conference in Johannesburg
that Pretoria was facing difficult funding decisions because
of South Africa's faltering economy. Gross domestic product
fell 0.5% last year. Mr. du Plessis said he hadn't decided on
a corporate tax cut for the 1992-93 budget. He said the
country must find money to pay for education, health care and
housing needs of a population that is growing 2.8% a year and
creating a need for 200,000 jobs annually.
                                                                                                       

   SINGAPORE EASES FOREIGN HIRING
                                                                                                       

   Singapore will allow more foreign construction workers but
tax employers more for these employees. The ratio of local
workers to foreign unskilled employees, now 1 to 2, will be
relaxed to 1 to 3. Foreign construction workers will be
subject to a levy of 400 Singapore dollars (US$244) a month,
up from S$350. The tax on skilled foreign workers will stay
at S$250 a month to encourage construction companies to
upgrade their work forces. The marine industry is to be
similarly regulated. The tax on foreign maids is to rise to
S$300 a month from S$250.
                                                                                                       

   ASIAN NATIONS GREEN -- TO A POINT
                                                                                                       

   Southeast Asian nations at a Singapore summit said
environmental issues were vital but mustn't be allowed to
slow the region's fast pace of economic growth.
   They said the developed world, which takes most of the
region's huge exports of timber, ore and other resources,
must help the Association of Southeast Asian Nations and
other developing countries protect the environment without
penalty. The Asean members, Brunei, Indonesia, Malaysia, the
Philippines, Singapore and Thailand, have vast natural
resources.
   But rapid development and population growth in the past
decade have added urban air pollution and waste-treatment
difficulties to problems of deforestation, water pollution,
oil spills and toxic-waste disposal. Asean will tell the
United Nationssponsored Earth Summit in June that it backs
"sustainable development" and "concessional funding."
   In Manila, Pacific island nations' representatives,
meeting to promote cooperation among former Spanish colonies,
declared the marine resources around their territories as
exclusive economic zones and agreed to enhance them through
joint ventures and accords with other nations.
                                                                                                       

   POSTSCRIPTS . . .
                                                                                                       

   A one-day strike by Portugal's public service employees
over pay caused chaos in transportation, schools, hospitals,
utilities, government, museums and trash collection. The
nation's biggest union, the Communist-led General
Confederation of Portuguese Workers, wants wage boosts
averaging 14.5%. It called the walkout to protest Lisbon's
inflation-fighting 9.5% offer. . . . Malaysia, rich in clay
reserves, will try to become the world's biggest exporter of
ceramic products.