Politics  Policy:
   Bush and Yeltsin, at Camp David, Forge
   Closer Ties but Reach No Specific Pacts
   ----
   By Michel McQueen
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
But in their first official meeting since the Soviet
Union's formal collapse, the two men didn't forge any new
agreements on specific arms control or economic issues
between their countries. Instead, they preferred to
concentrate on developing a new working relationship in the
wake of Mr. Yeltsin's ascent to the leadership of the largest
former Soviet republic.
   Mr. Yeltsin sounded especially enthusiastic about his
meeting with Mr. Bush. In a news conference at the close of
the session, Mr. Yeltsin praised Mr. Bush warmly, saying, "I
consider that I was very lucky in life, both as a political
person and just as a man to have met George Bush," adding
that he was "tremendously impressed by his wisdom."
   Mr. Bush was slightly more restrained, acknowledging that
he had had a close relationship with former Soviet leader
Mikhail Gorbachev but saying, "the visits that I have had
with President Yeltsin before this have always been very
pleasant. I think that we have a good understanding. I have a
very warm feeling in my heart about what he has done and is
trying to do. And I consider him my friend."
   All told, the Bush administration appears to be making a
sustained effort to upgrade both its treatment of Mr. Yeltsin
and its analysis of his virtues as a leader. Privately, U.S.
officials still retain doubts they once expressed more
readily about his reliability, but the administration wants
to wash out any bad taste that may have been left by what Mr.
Yeltsin perceived as slights in the treatment he received
before the collapse of the Soviet Union.
   Mr. Yeltsin told reporters that the sides had agreed to
reduce their strategic nuclear warheads to a level of about
2,500 on each side. That appears to be a reduction
significantly below the levels contemplated in the proposal
Mr. Bush outlined in his State of the Union address last
week, which would have cut superpower nuclear arsenals to
about 4,700 warheads. Still, U.S. officials said the levels
Mr. Yeltsin discussed are in the range anticipated in the
long run by Bush administration plans. There continue to be
differences between the specific approaches advanced by
Messrs. Bush and Yeltsin similar to those that have slowed
arms control negotiations in past years.
   Mr. Yeltsin also said the two sides agreed on a "whole
series of joint programs" to involve the 2,000 nuclear
scientists in the former Soviet Union. Among the ideas was a
research center where the scientists could work together on
such areas as space-based defense and research projects, but
U.S. officials, who advanced the idea, cautioned that these
were only suggestions and would require extensive negotiation
to enact.
   Both sides agreed that Secretary of State James Baker
would travel to Moscow, probably within the next two weeks,
to establish a firm schedule for the next round of arms
control talks, as well as to firm up dates for the state
visits. Mr. Baker already had been planning a mid-February
trip to Europe and the former Soviet Union, to launch a U.S.
airlift of humanitarian aid to Russia and other former Soviet
states and to visit leaders of the newly independent states
that have emerged from the Soviet Union.
   White House spokesman Marlin Fitzwater said the U.S.
expected Mr. Yeltsin to return to the U.S. between April and
July, but he was vague about when Mr. Bush, who faces
re-election in November, would make his reciprocal visit to
Moscow.
   Another piece of high-level diplomacy by Mr. Bush over the
weekend wasn't so successful. Disregarding criticism from
human-rights activists and many congressmen, the president
held his first meeting with Chinese Premier Li Peng since the
bloody crackdown on pro-democracy demonstrators in Beijing's
Tiananmen Square in 1989.
   Secretary of State Baker said that Mr. Bush raised
human-rights concerns during the 20-minute meeting Friday at
the United Nations in New York, but that Mr. Li responded by
reiterating opposition to outside interference in his
country's internal affairs. On NBC News's "Meet the Press"
program yesterday, Senate Majority Leader George Mitchell
(D., Maine) called the meeting a "serious mistake compounding
the president's failed and failing policy on China."
   The mood was more cordial on Saturday, as the U.S. and
Russia signed a declaration asserting that henceforth,
relations between the two sides would "be characterized by
friendship and partnership," that they would work to "remove
any remnants of Cold War hostility" and that the two sides
would work to expand cooperation in an array of areas, such
as expanding trade, halting drug trafficking, and resolving
regional conflicts.
   Although Messrs. Bush and Yeltsin played down the issue of
economic assistance, the Russian president did make an
impassioned appeal to the world community to assist his
country's economic transition, saying that "if reform in
Russia goes under, that means there will be a cold war -- the
cold war will turn into a hot war -- this is again going to
be an arms race."
   For all of the good will, Mr. Bush also showed difficulty
in adjusting to the historic changes, repeatedly referring to
the Soviet Union instead of Russia or the Commonwealth of
Independent States.