The Unlikeliest Democrat
   ----
   By Paul A. Gigot
So just when the Bush-Brady economy gives Democrats a
chance to retake the White House, primary polls lift up Mr.
Tsongas, a little-known former senator who looks and talks as
if he's just sucked a lemon and thinks you'd enjoy the same
experience. Establishment Democrats are dumbfounded,
disbelieving, morose.
   But before they all lunge for Albany, or leap from the
Capitol dome, Democrats might pause to consider what it is
about Mr. Tsongas's message that is attracting voters. Here's
one thought: He's the only Democrat who from the very
beginning has campaigned on the main theme of economic
growth. He'll only mention the word "fairness" under duress,
and then says something about getting around to it in his
"second term." For all of his unpresidential manner, he's the
one Democrat in the field who's candidly rejected Congress's
classwar economic orthodoxy. Maybe that's what voters in a
battered economy want to hear.
   A few Democrats have already heard the echoes. "There's no
doubt he's occupying ground that we want to hold," Mike
McCurry, a strategist for Sen. Kerrey, says of Mr. Tsongas.
"He comes across as a non-politician in a year when people
don't like politicians. People trust him. He's talking about
the economy."
   Mr. Kerrey is now saying he knows the private sector even
better than the former Massachusetts senator and lawyer. "I
created jobs. I started a company. He never did," the
restaurant entrepreneur now says when asked about his
differences with Mr. Tsongas. When was the last time two
Democrats scrapped over who knew better how to create private
wealth?
   Mr. McCurry (an optimist) is among those who think the
curious ferment of this primary is part of the healthy
process of Democrats redefining themselves into a more
mainstream presidential party. The Cold War is over, taking
the party's loony peaceniks with it. The candidates have so
far avoided giving themselves the death penalty on such
social issues as the death penalty. It's hard to know how
much of this change is conviction, and how much is stealth,
but it's obvious Democrats who sense a chance to win are
struggling to find a better message.
   Gov. Clinton was the first to benefit from this rethinking
(or repositioning) because he'd thought about it the longest
and had the new lingo down best ("reinventing government").
He started out giving thoughtful speeches, but later got a
bad case of front-runner lockjaw. He began to agree with
everyone. And his message was distilled into a free-lunch
mantra about the "forgotten middle class" that sounded like
it was crafted by pollster Stanley Greenberg, which it was.
He would win because he was simply the most "electable." This
public impression made him especially vulnerable to the
charges by the woman of the year, Gennifer Flowers, or about
his military service.
   Mr. Kerrey has danced around the same rethinking ("a new
role for government"), but belatedly and so far
unpersuasively. Asked what federal programs he would actually
cut, he says he voted against "the superconducting
super-collider," but can't think of another. His idea to
subsume smaller federal departments within larger ones is
little better than rearranging partitions at the Post Office.
(Poor Mr. Kerrey. In 15 minutes in the village store in East
Hampstead on Monday, he met successive voters who trashed the
public-school bureaucracy, blamed unions for high prices and
urged him to endorse term limits. And these were Democrats])
   With Jerry Brown too mysterious to be taken seriously,
that's left Mr. Tsongas to emerge as the born-again growth
Democrat. As a senator in the early 1980s, he was an orthodox
tax-and-spend liberal. Now he says his vote against the
Steiger capital-gains tax cut was the worst of his
congressional career. He explains his change of heart as the
result of years spent in the private economy after he
voluntarily quit the Senate to fight his cancer. He invokes
his own recovery from a virulent lymphoma as a metaphor for
what he wants to do to the U.S. economy.
   Some of his stump lines sound like they were written by
Jack Kemp:
   "Democrats love employment; it's employers they can't
stand."
   "The instinct of the Democratic Party is to be
anti-business, class-warfare, and protectionist. That is
economic death."
   "Democrats think of government like an automatic-teller
machine. You go and take money out, and don't worry how it
got there."
   "You can't redistribute wealth you haven't created. My
definition of a liberal is someone who can expand the
economic pie."
   On Mr. Kerrey's national-health plan: "The question is, Do
you believe government and efficiency belong in the same
sentence? Because if you do, we have counseling outside."
   Believe it or not, such salvos find a respectful hearing
among this state's Democratic primary crowds. In a 90-minute
town-meeting here on Sunday, Mr. Tsongas knocked back
questions about Mexican free trade, Japan, capital gains,
anti-trust and unemployment. His own capital-gains proposal
suffers from the same holding-period silliness of President
Bush's, but he defends it better. This may be because, unlike
Mr. Bush's Treasury secretary, he really believes a
capital-gains tax cut would do some good.
   A young kid who'd lost his job asked Mr. Tsongas what he'd
do to boost his esteem. Mr. Tsongas didn't promise a welfare
blanket. "My only job as president is to make the economy
grow," he said. "To create equity capital, venture capital,
so new companies will grow and you can have your pick of
jobs. And then you can worry about you." The audience
applauded.
   As refreshing as this all is from a Democrat, Mr. Tsongas
has not smashed all of his party's economic gargoyles. His
energy proposals sound like Carter Redux. He would finance
his capital-gains cut with a higher income-tax rate, to
perhaps 34% or 35% (from 31%). And while he doubts
nationalized health care, he somehow thinks government can
dabble in corporate industrial policy.
   Most politically dangerous for November, Mr. Tsongas has
bought into the cliche that the Reagan-Bush years were all a
disaster. Democrats may think so. But the independents who
gave the GOP landslides in 1984 and 1988 remember several fat
years, following the lean Democratic 1970s. Isn't it enough
to run against one president at a time? Mr. Tsongas can also
sound on occasion like the worst sort of castor-oil
Republican. Because he claims to offer "common sense," his
nickname in the press is Tom Pain. Americans know their
economy needs help; it's doubtful they think it needs the
same bone-marrow transplant that cured Mr. Tsongas's cancer.
He could use some Reaganite optimism.
   Mr. Tsongas has also given himself room to maneuver on
economic issues by adhering to many of the liberal social
litmus tests. At a rally on Monday, an activist with ACT-UP,
the gay extremist group, rose in what must be a first to
praise a presidential candidate. He presented Mr. Tsongas
with his very own "bash-Bush" T-shirt as reward for
sponsoring a gay-rights bill in Congress a decade ago. Mr.
Tsongas won't challenge George Bush for the Bible Belt vote.
   Washington Democrats say Mr. Tsongas won't travel well
beyond New England, and maybe they're right. (Mind you, these
are the same Democrats who've lost five of the last six
presidential elections.) Mr. Clinton can also be counted on
to fight back before next Tuesday's New Hampshire vote; he
didn't hire consultants James Carville and Paul Begala to
watch it slip away without stirring a little mayhem. Or maybe
someone else will get in the race.
   Certainly no one can accuse Mr. Tsongas of not knowing his
charismatic limitations. He has enough of a sense of humor to
have honed a series of one-liners lampooning his
anti-charisma on the stump. They aren't worth repeating, but
maybe other Democrats will find that his message of economic
growth is.
   ---
   Mr. Gigot writes the Journal's Friday Potomac Watch
column.