International:
   Seoul Moves to Restrain Conglomerates
   From Investing Heavily in North Korea
   ----
   By Damon Darlin
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Further hindering a rush to the North by South Korean
companies, Seoul officials said they won't approve major
investments until North Korea, as promised, signs an
international nuclear inspection treaty and allows the
inspections to take place. Despite a recent thawing in
relations between the two Koreas, Seoul remains wary of the
North's intentions, particularly because Pyongyang is
suspected to be building nuclear weapons.
   On Wednesday, North Korea rejected a South Korean proposal
for early inspection of nuclear facilities in both Koreas.
South Korean officials said after a North-South border
meeting that Pyongyang had offered instead to discuss the
issue at a meeting of the two Korean prime ministers in late
February. The delay only amplified worries in the South that
Pyongyang is procrastinating to gain time to develop nuclear
weapons.
   The government's efforts at restraining investments in the
North began after Kim Woo Choong, chairman of the Daewoo
Group, returned last week from North Korea with
multimillion-dollar plans to invest there. Other South Korean
companies have been meeting with North Korean officials in
third countries to sound out potential deals. South Korean
executives long have viewed their northern neighbor as the
solution to their problems of high wages and declining
competitiveness of South Korean goods.
   Mr. Kim said he agreed to invest between $10 million and
$20 million to build a textile plant in the North Korean port
city of Nampo to make fabrics, clothing and stuffed toys.
It's not clear whether the company actually signed an
agreement with Pyongyang.
   Mr. Kim also said he agreed to participate in "resource
development," which usually means mining or timber
operations, and joint overseas construction projects. He
didn't offer details.
   In January 1989, Hyundai group's honorary chairman at the
time, Chung Ju Yung, visited North Korea and agreed to
develop a mountain resort and invest in a repair shipyard and
locomotive plant in Wonsan. He also agreed to coal-mining and
salt-mining ventures in the North.
   Hyundai said it hasn't proceeded with those plans. "We
think the agreement is valid and we think if the time comes
we will try to materialize those projects," a spokesman said.
   South Korea's trade with North Korea has been small,
though it is growing rapidly. Two-way trade rose to about
$200 million in 1991 from less than $30 million in 1990, and
should double this year.