International:
   Business Mood in Japan Proves Worse
   Than Expected; Tokyo Likey to Act
   ----
   By Quentin Hardy
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The report showed more pessimism than optimism among major
Japanese manufacturers for the first time since the end of
1987. The minus-five level for this quarter, well under the
plus-seven that had been projected in the December survey,
was below most analysts' expectations. Manufacturers'
perceptions of the coming quarter rated even worse at
minus-12.
   As a group, major Japanese manufacturers expect profits to
fall by double-digit rates in the current fiscal year ending
March 31, and to continue to slide in the fiscal year
beginning April 1, the survey said. Overall, manufacturers
see capital expenditures down 11.8% in the new fiscal year,
with small and medium-sized companies predicting a 23.5% drop
in such expenditures. The businessmen saw inventories piling
up and found money harder to borrow, the survey said.
   "In several ways, this business cycle slowdown is sharper
than the previous three," said Kermit Schoenholtz, economist
at Salomon Brothers (Asia). He predicted that Japan's gross
national product, or the total value of the country's goods
and services, would grow by less than 2% in the fiscal year
beginning April 1 -- the slowest rate since the oil-shock
recession of 1974-1975. The Japanese government has been
predicting GNP growth of 3.5% for the new fiscal year.
   The survey, considered a vital economic indicator by
policy makers and analysts, collects data from 7,447 Japanese
companies, and is considered particularly valuable for the
information it provides on 4,034 manufacturers. The leading
number is a gauge of manufacturers' optimism and pessimism,
derived by subtracting the negative views from the positive
views.
   Japan's economic pain could have severe implications for
other economies, as Japanese companies continue to ease up on
capital spending abroad, as well as at home, and repatriate
some overseas assets. U.S. exports of high-grade capital
goods to Japan's corporate sector will also feel the pinch,
as will Asian manufacturers that count on Japanese spending.
   But the report gives little long-term cheer to the
competitors of Japanese manufacturers, which are coming off
an impressive period of easy money, part of which went for
upgrading their core businesses. The current downturn may be
seen as a necessary winnowing out of excess, from which a
stronger industrial competitor will emerge.
   Foreign banks, however, will see less competition from
their Japanese counterparts for the time being. Japanese
banks, saddled with massive problem loans, forecast a 9.4%
drop in capital spending in the year beginning April 1,
compared with a 2.7% gain this fiscal year.
   Elsewhere in the financial sector, the survey showed
things are even worse. Securities houses, still trying to
cope with the plunge in trading volume, said this fiscal
year's 48% drop in capital expenditure will be followed by a
52.2% drop next year.
   The survey raised to a near certainty the likelihood of
another cut in Japan's official discount rate, which stands
at 4.5% following three half-percentage-point cuts since July
1991. The rate is the fee the central bank charges on loans
to other banks.