Bush Is Expected
   To Halve Order
   For Stealth Bomber
   ----
   By Andy Pasztor and David Wessel
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
Defense Secretary Dick Cheney met with the Air Force's
leadership yesterday, the analysts said, to discuss cutting
an estimated $10 billion of the more than $25 billion
previously earmarked for purchases of Northrop Corp.'s
radar-evading bomber through 1998. While details of the
revised spending and production schedule weren't available,
officials said they expect Mr. Bush to cite the B-2 as a
prime example of the administration's efforts to bring
defense spending into line with changes in domestic
priorities and foreign military threats.
   Congress, however, still is likely to balk at the Air
Force's scaled-down plans. Lawmakers last year refused to
procure any additional B-2s, and even the bomber's staunchest
supporters on Capitol Hill have publicly acknowledged that
they face an uphill fight to authorize purchases beyond the
15 planes currently in the production pipeline. Northrop and
Pentagon spokesmen declined to comment on the issue.
   The Air Force's earlier plans called for ordering seven
B-2s in fiscal 1993, which begins Oct. 1, and as many as 11
of the bombers annually later. The latest scenario, according
to industry officials following the budget process, indicates
that Mr. Cheney and the White House are content to seek only
three or four of the radar-evading bombers a year. The final
numbers could change after last-minute Air Force appeals or
adjustments ordered by Mr. Bush.
   Meanwhile, the White House is considering moving up the
release of President Bush's fiscal 1993 budget so that it
will come up the day after he delivers his State of the Union
address Jan. 28.
   The budget has been scheduled for release Feb. 3, but
administration officials say there's now an effort to move up
the release to Jan. 29. Tight printing schedules may make
that impossible, however.
   In any event, the president is expected to outline the
most important parts of the budget in his State of the Union
speech, if not before. The law gives the White House
considerable flexibility in picking the date for the budget,
but it must be sent to Congress by Feb. 3.