Winter Olympics 1992:
   Going for Gold in the Epicurean Combined
   ---
   Wining and Dining
   Are Big Competition
   For Games Sponsors
   ----
   By Craig Forman and Roger Thurow
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
CBS loves it. But 3M loves it more. "A minute and a half
of solid logo time. It doesn't get much better than that,"
says one of the 3M people.
   "Yeah, I had to choose between delaying 30 guests, or live
TV exposure in front of millions," cracks Jim Radford, 3M
sports marketing director. "I thought about it for a minute."
   As soon as the camera stops rolling, though, it's time to
get the 3M gravy train back on the road. The guests had
barely digested last night's sumptuous meal -- pate, salmon,
lamb and fancy French pastries -- when 3M laid out a groaning
buffet of Savoie fare at its hospitality house here. Now,
they're off to speed skating in Albertville. They may miss an
early race or two because of the CBS spot, but with a
magician and free drinks aboard the bus, who's complaining?
   "Hungry, we're not," says Gary Welchman, group vice
president at Burlington Industries, a 3M customer.
   Advertising and schmoozing: This is why corporations
around the world spend millions of dollars sponsoring the
Olympics. The buttoned-down justification of such sponsors as
Coca-Cola, Kodak, Philips, Visa and the U.S. Postal Service,
is that the Games are a unique chance to link their image to
the wholesome and triumphal five rings of the Olympics. But
the Games also provide an excuse for wining and dining on a
scale that makes the three-martini lunch look like a bologna
sandwich at the desk.
   While the Games themselves provide entertainment, sponsors
are hosting a movable feast to entertain clients, both
present and potential. At these Olympics, herds of corporate
guests roam the sporting sites like national teams. Their
distinctive parkas -- free, of course -- are their uniforms
(Coke's is bright red, with "Team Coke" emblazoned on the
back; Kodak's is a snazzy yellow and red number). The
executives occupy the best seats at the events, fill the
tables at the best restaurants, and repose at the toniest
chalets.
   "Isn't this nice?" asks Jean-Marie Grivaz, a Philips
executive, as France's 200 mile-per-hour bullet train streaks
toward Albertville. A dozen guests sip champagne and nibble
hors d'oeuvres from a fancy Parisian caterer, the first of
many snacks on a three-day, all-expenses-paid visit to the
Games.
   This train has been rented by sponsors including France
Telecom, Renault, Credit Lyonnais and IBM's French unit. Mr.
Grivaz reckons his company is spending several thousand
dollars hosting each of its guests at the Games. Talking
business, however, is optional.
   "Our goal here is to create an atmosphere," says Mr.
Grivaz. "We aren't here to sign contracts."
   For the Olympics themselves, the corporate fun and games
are a vitally lucrative sideshow. Sponsorship has become a
lifeline of cash, supplying one-third of Albertville's $800
million operating budget.
   The amount spent for sponsorship has grown to as much as
$500 million for rights to both Albertville and Barcelona
combined, up from an estimated $200 million in 1984, when
Olympic sponsorships really caught on at the Los Angeles
Games.
   But those numbers are only the beginning.
Consumer-products companies routinely spend three times as
much on advertising and associated promotions linking their
name to the effort. France Telecom has even spent an
additional $100 million on Games-related infrastructure,
including 10,000 new phone lines.
   "In pure economic terms, is sponsorship worth it? Probably
no. But in terms of image -- yes, it certainly is worth it,"
says Charles Rozmaryn, France Telecom's chief executive,
hosting a post-locomotive cocktail party.
   For individual companies, the amount spent on sponsorship
remains as secret as the Coke formula. "If you want to know
the price, you can't afford it," says Donald Keough,
president and chief operating officer of Coca-Cola.
   Marketing analysts say it is far from clear that
sponsorships pay off for anyone other than the largest
consumer-products companies. But some sponsors would probably
be involved with the Olympics at almost any price. Coke, for
example, is the first sponsor to re-enlist for the 1994
Winter Games in Norway and the 1996 Summer Games in Atlanta,
the company's home base. "I'll tell you this," says Mr.
Keough. "It's very expensive if you look at it as a single
number. And very efficient if you look at it in the eyes of
Coca-Cola."
   The sponsors' marketing goes beyond the commercials you
see on TV. IBM and Kodak, among others, use the Olympics to
show off technology to a world-wide audience. IBM set up a
network of 1,700 personal computers and two mainframes to
supply sports information to reporters and athletes
throughout the Olympic sites. The computer company has
brought more than 10,000 clients to Albertville during the
past 18 months to show off its Olympic effort. Kodak has
spent millions of dollars on a high-tech film laboratory that
is processing 70,000 rolls of film during the Games.
   For some of the sponsors, though, the road to Albertville
has been more trouble than fun. Since the U.S. Postal Service
signed up to be one of the 12 world-wide sponsors, looking to
promote its express-mail service, the post office has become
the target of a congressional investigation and the subject
of an inquiry by the General Accounting Office. Investigators
wonder whether the quasi-governmental agency should be
spending millions of dollars on enhancing its image.
   "You have 11 corporate geniuses and one idiot," grumbles
Postmaster General Anthony Frank, complaining that the post
office has been unfairly singled out.
   The inquiries have shed some light on the secretive nature
of sponsorship. The post office estimates that it will spend
about $120 million in connection with its sponsorship, mainly
on advertising to promote its express-mail service, which
competes in the open market. In return, the post office
expects to take in more than $170 million from increased
express business, from sales of commemorative stamps and from
subletting its sponsorship to 31 other national postal
authorities.
   The post office's schmoozing has a distinctive,
middle-American flavor. The agency is playing host to
relatives of U.S. athletes, who otherwise would have had to
watch everything on television back home. "It's a moment we
will have to remember when we are in our rocking chairs,"
says Anna Urbanski, mother of figure skater Calla, sampling a
slice of pate.
   It also provides a rare treat for the post office. "If any
of my friends complain about the post office, I'll say, `Hey,
wait a minute now,'" says Albert Urbanski, Calla's father.
   Hearing such talk, Mr. Frank reckons the sponsorship has
been worth it -- despite the criticism.
   Back at the 3M hospitality house, Mr. Welchman figures his
five-day odyssey at the Olympics can only further his
company's ties to 3M. As a 3M client, Burlington has the
right to use the Olympic rings on goods its makes with 3M
materials. The more 3M fosters this kind of relationship with
the Olympics, the more it "enhances your desire to do
business with them," he says.
   Not even a breakdown can ruin a good schmooze. When the 3M
bus pulls into a gas station for repairs outside Albertville,
the on-board magician jumps up to entertain the passengers.
   "Breaking down wasn't such a bad deal," says Mr. Welchman.
It gave him more time, he says, to ponder how the magician
did one of his card tricks.
   ---
             A Freeloader's Guide to the Games
                                                                                                       

                                                                                                       

 Coca-Cola       FOOD       *     Coke is on the house in
                                  welcome tent.
                                                                                                       

                 AMBIANCE   *     Traveling Coke hospitality
                                  wagon brings the double-
                                  decker bus to the Alps.
                                  Credit for ingenuity.
                                                                                                       

                 VIPs       ***   German ice queen Katerina
                                  Witt makes appearance
                                  followed by Olympic king
                                  Juan Antonio Samaranch.
                                                                                                       

 France Telecom  FOOD       *     Foie gras is nice, but is
                                  still train food in
                                  France.
                                                                                                       

                 AMBIANCE   *     TGV fast train to Alps is
                                  good idea, but company
                                  stickers on windows
                                  obscure view.
                                                                                                       

                 VIPs       None  Guests include senior
                                  officials of ATT and
                                  British Telecom. Big deal.
                                                                                                       

 Philips         FOOD       **    Excellent petits fours --
                                  oeufs en neige and tiny
                                  framboise pastries.
                                                                                                       

                 AMBIANCE   *     Train car next to France
                                  Telecom.
                                                                                                       

                 VIPs       *     Boring executives salvaged
                                  only by decision to allow
                                  little girls to bring dog
                                  on the train.
                                                                                                       

 3M              FOOD       *     Savoie Fare.
                                                                                                       

                 AMBIANCE   ***   Hospitality house atop
                                  luge and bobsled mountain.
                                                                                                       

                 VIPs       ***   CBS morning weathermen and
                                  American lugers. What more
                                  can you want?
                                                                                                       

 IBM             FOOD       ***   Lobster salad served on
                                  china by waiters in white
                                  coats. Free-flowing Savoie

                                                                                                       

                 AMBIANCE   **    Short distance to hockey
                                  rink and women's downhill
                                  run.
                                                                                                       

                 VIPs       None  Computer nerds.
                                                                                                       

                                                                                                       

 United States   FOOD       **    Standard French cuisine
 Postal Service                   impressive to American
                                  guests.
                                                                                                       

                 AMBIANCE   ***   Families of Olympians
                                  gathered together, a nice
                                  touch.
                                                                                                       

                 VIPs       None  At hockey game postmaster
                                  general sits near Melanie
                                  Griffith and George
                                  Steinbrenner, but not near
                                  enough.
                                                                                                       

   None -- Pass it by
      * -- Fair
     ** -- Good
    *** -- Freebie Deluxe