LEISURE  ARTS:
   Mobile Guide: On the River From Mandalay
   ----
   By Karen Swenson
As we crested the top of the stairs panting under our load
of luggage, we were sighted by a boat official, who started
rearranging the passengers on the deck. He yelled at a small
boy, who scurried off and returned with a broom to sweep up
eggshells and banana peels from what he designated with a
sweeping gesture as our space. At this point we knew deck
chairs and laden trays were not to be our lot. We divided
into two crews -- one to arrange the luggage, the other to
retreat to buy the grass mats, the Sprite and anything else
that looked edible and reasonably sanitary.
   Under a sky graying with dawn we pulled into the middle of
the Irrawaddy, named for the white elephant Erawon on which
the god Indra rides. It splits this country, formerly known
as Burma, from north to south, running for 1,350 miles from
the southern Himalayas to the Andaman Sea. Depending on the
quantity of rain and the time of year, the river is navigable
for 930 miles from Bhamo in the north to the delta, a
150-mile-wide vista of rice paddies. These paddies made Burma
the top producer of rice in the world -- until the present
government, known by the sinister sci-fi acronym SLORC,
instituted its ruinous economic policies.
   We discovered we were not the only Westerners aboard. Two
Dutchmen had a cabin in the bow of the boat -- with a private
bathroom] The other bathroom was an aromatic little shack
perched over the side of the ship. It was not entirely
reassuring to find that when the kitchen boy put down the
bucket for water it was hauled up from our wake. The Dutchmen
were generous about sharing their loo. Its toilet was so high
off the floor that all but 6-footers could twiddle their legs
like two-year-olds on telephone books at the diningroom
table. The Dutchmen, while declaring themselves tourists,
were obviously, with their multitude of cameras and
notebooks, a pair of journalists. (Foreign journalists are
not allowed to enter Burma.)
   In a splendid crimson bath of sunrise, we passed under the
Ava Bridge, the only one that spans the Irrawaddy. In 1942
the British blew it up as the Japanese advanced. After the
war it was rebuilt, and it reopened in 1954. Gliding under
the bridge were small boats, turned up fore and aft like elf
shoes, that ferried people across the blood-colored water
from Ava to Sagaing.
   With the sun's rise the Burmese around us unpacked. Food
in all kinds of wrappings: banana leaves, bits of cotton and
dainty cups made of newspaper appeared. We grew despondent
over our breakfast fare of sweet English biscuits,
coconut-covered peanuts and Sprite as we watched our
neighbors devour stubby bananas like swollen yellow thumbs,
tiny jewel-like blue-green eggs, rice with mysterious things
in it or on it. Wandering about the deck trying not to step
on babies, luggage or legs, I discovered the kitchen had
white cake and cups of tea, made from that wake water. We
indulged in an orgy of cake and tea.
   A few people talked to us carefully, for there were young
soldiers on board who sat by themselves to one side, ignored
by the rest of the passengers. Mostly we just smiled at each
other as the low banks drifted by. There were also monks on
board in their red robes. The people sitting near them always
offered them food first.
   White mounds of temples rose above the banks, their gold
spires winking in brilliant sun under branches of flame trees
leafless but ablaze with flowers. When we pulled into shore a
plank was laid between the lower deck and the soft dust of
the shore. Around it milled dozens of women with baskets and
trays on their heads, their faces decorated with the yellow
sandalwood makeup that women here use as a complexion refiner
and sun block. The usual method of applying this makeup is to
put a silver-dollar-sized dab on each cheek and then rake
your pocket comb across it to make striations. Some women are
more creative. One girl we saw had a daintily veined leaf on
each cheek.
   The women let out ululating cries as their eyes raked the
deck for possible sales. Their baskets and trays were filled
with round watermelons smaller than basketballs, eggs,
bananas, cigarettes, tangerines, sundries that travelers
might need and neat piles of fritters that looked like
lacquered disks, from which shrimp, the main ingredient,
stared with tiny black eyes like bugs in amber.
   Behind the vendors, also scanning the steamer's decks, men
and women stood beside huge white Brahma bulls with
black-rimmed almond eyes who chewed their cuds placidly. They
were yoked in pairs to carts with man-sized wooden wheels.
The passengers descended the plank and either mounted a cart
or hired one of the boats pulled up on shore to cross the
river to their village. With the last passenger off, the
women came pouring on board to tempt us. We gave in and
bought a half dozen eggs, a dozen tangerines and a
watermelon.
   As the afternoon progressed, the banks rose and we could
see men leading their Brahma bulls or their water buffalo
along a path. When the banks dipped there were houses of
woven bamboo on stilts before which children swam and waved
to us. Once we passed a steamer, our twin, going in the
opposite direction and there was much shouting and waving.
This gave us a chance to see what our boat looked like. We
looked like an oval bar of Pear's soap that had been hollowed
out into two layers in the center.
   All the boats we saw along the river were of
pre-World-War-II vintage. Twice we passed massive log rafts
of teak floating down to Rangoon, each crowned by a little
shack flying the Myanmar flag that housed the men tending the
rafts during their passage downstream.
   By sunset there were only a handful of passengers left. We
gave our grass mats to the boy who had swept our space and
took our luggage down to the lower deck, eager to disembark.
But there was nothing visible on the shore, only occasional
small clusters of lights. Because of the danger of sandbars
we moved slowly, backing up sometimes to take a different
channel. It was like a night with Mark Twain on the
Mississippi.
   When the lights on the boat were lit, multitudes of moths
swarmed out of the darkness, getting in our eyes, mouths and
noses. They hurled themselves flapping and colliding into a
constantly moving mass that enveloped bare bulbs in a
mummylike brown shade. We retreated to the far corners of the
deck so as not to inhale them. At about 9 p.m., after 16
hours on the Irrawaddy, we walked over the plank in our turn
and climbed a steep bank to another Japanese flatbed truck,
which jolted off to our hotel.
   ---
   Ms. Swenson is a poet in Brooklyn, N.Y., who travels
frequently in Asia.