Letters to the Editor:
   What's More Lethal -- Guns or Cars?
Harbor City, Calif.
   ---
   Significantly more teen-agers are killed every year in
auto accidents than in firearms-related accidents. Where is
the hysterical cry of how unsafe car ownership is? Why are
you not running articles about families in turmoil because of
teen-age drivers? If you came home and found your teen-ager
handling a firearm, you would be hysterical, but if you came
home and found him with a beer in his hands, you would be
tolerant. Yet alcohol-related deaths of teens, particularly
in automobiles, far outnumber firearms accidents.
   R.D. Devaney
   The Woodlands, Texas
   ---
   You refer to an incident in Lumberton, N.J., in which a
14-year-old youth was fatally shot by a basketball teammate
in an apparent accident. The article then quotes the boy's
mother as wishing New Jersey had a law making it a felony for
adults to fail to secure a gun in a home where a minor might
have reasonable access to it.
   The fact is, we have such a law in New Jersey. I know
because I sponsored it. It passed the Legislature and was
signed into law Jan. 17.
   Accidental shootings resulting from the negligence of
adults represent the sixth-leading cause of death of children
under age 14. In New Jersey, we have taken steps to solve
this problem. Anyone found guilty of not properly securing
weapons that could be within easy access of children faces a
potential jail term of up to five years. Our law also
requires firearms dealers to post warning signs and inform
buyers of the provisions of this law.
   Richard J. Codey
   New Jersey Senate
   West Orange, N.J.
   ---
   The ostensible "news" in "Gun Play" is that
firearms-related incidents among teen-agers are now not
uncommon in middle-class suburbia. As evidence, you describe
four incidents in New Jersey. Not exactly compelling.
   Worse is your haughty sense of dismay over the fact that
nothing is being done about this undocumented problem. To
wit: ". . . it appears that few have stepped back to reflect
on the more general implications of the shooting: that
teen-agers and guns don't mix" and "There's been no
discernible re-examination of attitudes toward the presence
and accessibility of firearms . . ." and "The community at
large, however, has tended to sweep such troubling issues
aside."
   Says who? Plenty of teen-agers can and do handle firearms
safely and responsibly: Many teen-agers hunt, plink and/or
shoot competitively -- and safely -- all over America.
Moreover, any normal teen-ager knows full well that firearms
are dangerous and should be handled with care. Recall that we
are not talking about babies, but about people who are mature
enough to drive a car (or nearly so).
   Fred S. Carns Jr.
   Annandale, Va.