Citicorp Adopts
   New Guidelines
   For Lending
   ---
   Goal Is to Limit Exposure
   In Specific Sectors; Cost
   Of Borrowing May Rise
   ----
   By Steven Lipin
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
One manager, who received the booklet of more than 50
pages, said the new policy also assigns a one-through-10 risk
measurement to a long list of corporate clients and sets new
pricing criteria based on the risk and amount of capital
needed to carry the loan.
   When asked about the new guidelines, Citicorp Chairman
John S. Reed stressed the flexibility in its application. But
he said he viewed the guidelines as important in identifying
"our exposure to different industry groupings. We never had a
portfolio-management scheme for pulling together the global
portfolio of the company to take a look at it
mathematically."
   The instructions Citicorp managers are now receiving apply
only to U.S. business, which must be in full compliance with
the guidelines by the middle of next year. In coming months,
similar rules, with a later compliance date, will be set
forth for corporate business in the rest of the world.
   The new credit policies are an important part of the
bank's attempt at revitalizing the credit culture and
procedures that went awry in the 1980s.
   Citicorp has been criticized for a lack of discipline in
corporate lending, particularly in commercial real estate. It
also was involved in many of the most overleveraged deals of
the heady '80s era, and its decentralized management had few
checks and balances to monitor the risks of such clients as
Robert Campeau and Donald Trump.
   "Had a system like this been in place a number of years
ago, it would have graphically shown our enormous exposure to
the real estate industry," a senior executive noted.
   The bank had 8.8% of its assets in commercial real estate
at one time, which under the new standards would have placed
it above the 7.0% limit for "volatile" industries. Over $4.8
billion of Citicorp's more than $13 billion U.S. commercial
real estate portfolio is now nonperforming.
   The June 1993 compliance date does not apply to commercial
real estate due to the bank's inability to reduce its
portfolio. Eventually, a senior executive involved in the new
plan said the real estate portfolio will also be subject to
the guidelines. Loans in other overexposed sectors, however,
may be sold into the loan secondary market to meet the
guidelines.
   Several other large banking companies have developed
similar models. "It's a hot topic at banks, but it's been
mostly experimental," said Melville Blake, a partner at the
MAC Group, a financial consulting firm.
   An example of how Citicorp's new policy might work
follows: The institutional bank currently has too large an
exposure to the financial services industry, accounting for
14.3% of the bank's U.S. corporate loan business, according
to the handbook. Financial services, considered a "volatile"
industry, should account for only 7.0% of the bank's
portfolio. That means the bank should be cutting back on
loans to brokerage firms, insurance companies and mutual
funds between now and mid-1993.
   "This implies that out-of-favor industries may face an
extended credit crunch," said Christopher Snyder, president
of Loan Pricing Corp., which tracks and analyzes corporate
loans. He points to the difficulty consumer finance and small
leasing companies are already having obtaining credit.
   By comparison, the food production industry accounts for
7.5% of the portfolio, but could increase to 10% because it
is viewed as nonvolatile.
   Citibank's customers could find some dislocations in the
next 18 months. Some may not be able to roll over maturing
loans or may be told that the interest rate and fees will be
greater than before. The senior executive insists there
should be "minimal customer dislocation" because the bank is
phasing in the restrictions. The bank will offer alternative
products, such as cash management or short-term loans rather
than longer-dated ones, if it has excessive concentration in
a certain industry or with a specific client.
   The bottom-line impact could be significant: If all the
guidelines are implemented, risk will be diversified so that
even under a worst-case scenario for one of the bank's U.S.
industry segments, the North American corporate banking
business should break even. That, of course, wouldn't be true
if a widespread economic fallout hits numerous industries.
   In 1991, the $79 billion Jena division, which handles
corporate business in Japan, Europe and North America, lost
over $1 billion and wrote off $1.43 billion in loans. By
pricing products according to both the risk and the capital,
the bank's return on equity should also improve.
   Instituting a credit culture from the wreckage of the
1980s will take more than number-crunching -- and it's one of
the bank's most daunting challenges. "Credit cultures take
years to develop," said one official close to the bank.
   The banking giant is counting on its new Vice Chairman H.
Onno Ruding, a conservative Dutch economist and former
finance minister, to be the senior-level gatekeeper the bank
was lacking during the 1980s after the retirement of longtime
credit czar Henry Mueller. Mr. Reed wrote in a memo that Mr.
Ruding "will play a leading role in the ongoing
re-architecture of our credit process."
   Experts say limitations could be hard to maintain when
commercial lending rebounds and bankers are pushing to make
new loans. "Bank management must be confident enough to
forego revenues when some industry has wide pricing spreads,"
Mr. Snyder says.
   Lenders caution that they've already been told that there
will be exceptions to the rules. Moreover, bankers were
always taught that the character of a borrower was a key
component in a decision to lend money -- and character cannot
be plugged into a computer model and quantified.
   "These guidelines are often established at 30,000 feet up,
and pushing it down to every single loan is a monumental
undertaking," said Mr. Blake of the MAC Group. Citicorp has
had a cadre of financial experts working over the past two
years developing computer models to measure default rates and
credit-loss experiences by industry. Few other banks have
devoted as much resources to the emerging science.
   Portfolio management, as the new technology is called, was
pioneered in the commercial banking sector by Bankers Trust
New York Corp. Other banks, such as Mellon Bank Corp., First
Chicago Corp. and J.P. Morgan Inc. are developing models as
well, experts say.
   The ideas of bank portfolio management stem from seminal
work in modern portfolio theory, the backbone of both
fixed-income and equity analysis for the last 20 years. The
theory stresses that investors should not take on any risk
greater than the risk in the overall market as measured by an
index.