Letter From the Publisher:
   A Report to The Wall Street Journal's Readers
To our readers:
   It began with a bang and ended with a whimper. From the
bang of a sweeping American-led victory in the Persian Gulf
to the whimper with which the Soviet Union expired, 1991 by
any historic measure was an extraordinary year.
   Between these bookend events, Israelis sat down at talks
with Palestinians, Mandela began a discourse with De Klerk,
Europe gathered in Maastricht to proclaim itself formally
united, and the political values and economic system America
pioneered and personifies clearly are ascendant from the
Baltics to Botswana.
   No year is perfect. Saddam still sits in Baghdad, Serbs
shell Croats, Somalis slaughter each other and recession
lingers here at home. But, with the collapse of communism and
the toppling of all but a few despotic dominos, we are poised
at the threshold of an era in which men and women everywhere
can grasp the almost limitless potential inherent in free
politics and free markets and in the scientific and
technological advances they unleash.
   Over the past several generations, there has been a divide
between those Americans who viewed "peaceful coexistence" as
the only alternative and those who insisted the Cold War
should, could and would be won. The Journal's editorials have
been both conscience and clarion for the latter. At times
this was a lonely role as many mocked our calls to confront
an "evil empire" and our uncompromising faith in free
markets. But as a Journal editorial said on Christmas Eve,
prospects for peace are "brighter today than anytime in three
generations."
   Yet the dawn of not just a new year but a new era finds
many Americans mired in a mysteriously melancholy and myopic
mood. Far from scanning broad vistas from newly sunlit
uplands, too many Americans instead are squinting for light
at the end of a tunnel of their own imagining. The persistent
but hardly profound recession and serious but hardly
insoluble social problems logically don't support this
national melancholia.
   If banks are having problems, brokers again are
prospering; if GM is shutting plants, Microsoft is building
and hiring; if Pan Am is folding, United is expanding; if
some big businesses are shrinking, many small ones are
sprouting.
   Our budget deficit persists, but the federal debt is no
larger than it was in 1960 as a percentage of GNP. A trade
deficit persists, but is offset by a net flow of investment
into America from around the world. In terms of
competitiveness, we remain the most productive people on
Earth and lap the world in splicing genes, harnessing lasers
and creating software. Our undeniable social problems would
be far less debilitating if we put more responsibility on
ourselves, assumed more responsibility for our families and
cast less blame on the "thems" of society and government. And
despite domestic problems, America remains a magnet for
millions of political and economic refugees who energize and
enrich our society.
   As we enter 1992, year of a U.S. presidential election, an
Olympiad, and the quincentennial of Columbus's epochal voyage
to the New World (assuming it will be politically correct to
celebrate an "imperialist expedition"), there are many
exciting events to anticipate as well as blessings to count.
Yet Americans seem to have lost sight of the larger truth.
   The media, in many ways, are a microcosm of this larger
dichotomy between the realities of all that is going right
and the myth that all is going wrong.
   The media, including new information technologies, have
been a primary catalyst for the historic changes across the
globe in recent years. We are of an age in which information
knows no borders and where no barriers can long stand against
its free flow. Whether it is the global intercom of a CNN,
the fax machine, VCR or CD-ROM, Telerate's electronic
information or a global Wall Street Journal available each
business day in scores of capitals around the world, despots
and bureaucracies no longer are a match for unvarnished news
and views that liberate the minds of men and women.
   Yet, from the murder and mayhem that dominate local
television news to the almost unrelieved pessimism of
punditry on editorial pages and TV talk shows, the media all
too often paint a bleak and barren picture of our life and
times. Since the media appropriately hold other elements of
society up to scrutiny and skepticism, perhaps this is an
appropriate time and place to do the same to the media. A
partial list of problems:
   First, there's an increased blurring of the line between
journalism and entertainment. There's room for both, both can
be well done, and on a spectrum from, say, Ted Koppel to
Geraldo Rivera there may be some gray zones. Happily, most
thoughtful Americans still know the difference between news
and entertainment when we see or read it. But those of us in
the press have a special interest in preserving the
distinction. Journalism that puts too high a priority on
entertaining is destined to distort and mislead.
Entertainment masquerading as news, meanwhile, taints and
tarnishes genuine journalism.
   Second, there's the fuzzing of lines between news and
opinion. Again, there's room for both, but there's danger in
blurring the distinction. Newspapers, at least, have formats
and traditions that differentiate the two. Most television
and magazines have neither. Thus, the result, all too often,
is a clumsy blending of news and views. The two are not
ingredients to mix for a zestier meal; they're different
courses, like meat and dessert.
   Third, there are pitfalls inherent in pack journalism.
Individually, most journalists are fair-minded women and men.
We see ourselves as individualists, not conformists; as
independent thinkers, not conveyor belts for conventional
wisdom or amplifiers of unverified allegations. By and large,
the lone reporter lives up to this self-image.
   But when dozens of reporters chase the same story, an
infection often takes hold. What the public then sees is the
spectacle of hounds in pursuit of a quarry. Whether the
quarry is Dan Quayle's draft status or Clarence Thomas's
vocabulary, the pack tends to lose its common sense and sense
of fairness. Standards drop toward the lowest common
denominator. A rule of thumb might be the larger the pack,
the poorer the performance.
   Fourth, there is a tendency toward exaggerated pessimism
in much of what we read and hear. The point isn't to dispense
"good news." The press has an obligation to tell the truth,
which involves problems, failings, promises unkept.
Skepticism is essential; criticism often warranted by facts.
   Pessimism, however, is different. It's a mind-set that
assumes the worst and bends reality to fit.
   The Gulf war was a classic example. A media that found
pessimism paid in Vietnam carried an old mind-set to a new
time and place. The litany of problems predicted in the
Persian Gulf -- from fraying alliances to outraged Arab
masses to tens of thousands of U.S. body bags -- never
happened. Even at the time, most Americans of common sense
must have wondered what war the pundits were talking about.
After the fact, Americans rightly can wonder how so many
could have been so wrong about so much.
   That syndrome is at work in commentary on dissolution of
the Soviet Union. Rather than focusing on the enormous
promise new-found freedom offers, too many pundits are
fixated on problems that "instability" could cause. It's as
if when America achieved independence headlines had read:
"Woe to World; Instability Hits North America."
   Fifth, a press seduced by social orthodoxies is less
effective than one that questions, probes and challenges
them. Everyone favors a clean environment, but how much
damage actually is done by, say, small amounts of asbestos in
our basements and what are the costs to society of
sanctifying snail darters and spotted owls?
   During the Clarence Thomas-Anita Hill hearings, how much
of the media were content letting spokeswomen for organized
women's groups represent the opinion of "American women"? And
how much of the media focus on American blacks extends beyond
obvious problems of inner city blacks to the successes, or
even the perspectives, of the black middle class?
   The challenge for journalists is to move beyond
stereotypes, simplifications and sound bites; to ask whether
so-called movement leaders speak for national constituencies
or narrow interests; and always to remember every issue has
more than one side.
   Sixth, the press is threatened by a strain of ethical
puritanism loose in its ranks. These are journalists playing
scolds and scourges, pillorying and prosecuting public (and
not-so-public) figures for lapses in private lives that have
little relevance to public performance or to the public
beyond the purely prurient.
   The point isn't whether the press has a right to print
sundry details of private lives. That right is
constitutionally protected. But whether the subject is
Senator Robb's massage or Nancy Reagan's premarital sex life,
the point isn't law, but rather relevance.
   The same is true for some of what pass for political
exposes these days. Illegality, dishonesty and political
hyprocrisy all are fair game for the media. Indeed, our
society is fortunate to have a press that pursues Watergate
or congressional corruption. But there is another sort of
non-scandal that tends to make headlines. Dan Quayle using a
government plane for a golf outing, for example, is neither
illegal, unethical, or if you pause to think about the issues
of security and presidential succession, illogical.
   In such instances, the prosecutorial press falls back on
"appearances" -- the anonymous perception of impropriety. The
allegation becomes self-fulfilling and the subject is
pilloried for a "perception" emanating largely from the
media.
   Seventh, there's the matter of short attention span. It's
a rare issue that long sustains the focus of the media. Yet,
the larger issues of our times are longer-term ones,
society's biggest problems take longest to resolve, and the
most important stories are hardest to explain.
   As the media hop from Kurdistan to Croatia, from budget
"crisis" to trade "crisis," from George Bush the wizard of
world affairs to George Bush the whipping boy who fixates on
foreign policy, the press justifiably blames the nature of
news and the public's short attention. But, the public,
bombarded and bewildered, blames a fickle and shallow press.
   Both are correct. There is too little sustained press or
public focus, too many instant celebrities, too many two-day
crises. In a world where everything is "critical," nothing
need be taken very seriously.
   Finally, there's the issue of power. The press is a
powerful presence in our society. We shouldn't really want it
that way. The press's purpose ought to be to empower its
readers and viewers by providing them relevant information
with which to make decisions as individuals and citizens.
Press influence, however, is a fact.
   Much of the media tend to take an almost instinctively
adversarial position toward all large and powerful
institutions -- big government, big business, the Pentagon,
the CIA and so on. And so the press is at least partially
responsible for greater skepticism in our society. By and
large, that is fine.
   But we can't have it both ways. We can't honestly claim to
be little Davids out smiting Goliaths and have the public
believe it. The lone reporter may be such a David, but not
the press collectively or institutionally.
   CBS and "60 Minutes" are more powerful than most subjects
they expose. A network anchorman or editor of a major
newspaper can have more influence on public affairs than most
congressmen. The Wall Street Journal probably has more
influence on national economic policies and public views of
them than most corporations.
   These days, networks are owned by giant corporations,
magazines by media conglomerates, and the majority of
newspapers by national chains. The gutsy small-town newspaper
editor is a fading breed. But his or her news standards need
not also fade away.
   There's nothing new, of course, in press failings or press
criticism. Thomas Jefferson deplored the "putrid state into
which our newspapers have passed and the malignity, the
vulgarity and the mendacious spirit of those who write for
them." Yet, Mr. Jefferson also said: "Were it left to me to
decide whether we should have a government without newspapers
or newspapers without government I would not hesitate a
moment to prefer the latter."
   The U.S. Constitution, in fact, protects the press's right
even to be irresponsible. But that's all the more reason the
press shouldn't indulge or abuse that right. Along with
power, or at least influence, goes responsibility:
   -- Accuracy, meaning the maximum effort to get it right.
   -- Fairness, including an open mind and honest effort to
seek sundry points of view.
   -- Modesty, in the sense of pride in conveying useful
information, rather than crusading, converting or
prosecuting.
   -- Common sense, including an understanding that the First
Amendment exists not merely for the self-interest of the
press but also to protect rights of the public.
   -- Humanity, which merely means remembering that we are
human beings first and journalists second. Like others,
journalists resent criticism without opportunity to respond.
Like others, journalists resent microphones and cameras
thrust in their faces at moments of intense personal tragedy.
   We at The Wall Street Journal are not innately immune to
the infections described above. We do, however, try our very
best to be accurate, fair and honest in our reporting; to be
self-questioning and self-critical in our editing; and, above
all, to view our role as serving readers with genuinely
relevant news and clear, consistent editorial views.
   The Journal's Geraldine Brooks and Tony Horwitz eschewed
Gulf war pressroom briefings and gossip to give readers
first-hand accounts of what they saw of the war. Moscow
correspondent Peter Gumbel both predicted and dissected
events in the Soviet Union and probed communist coverups like
germ warfare research in Sverdlovsk. Washington correspondent
Peter Truell provided the most enterprising and painstakingly
accurate coverage of the unfolding BCCI scandal. And legal
columnist Gordon Crovitz consistently punctured conventional
wisdom and exposed both prosecutorial excesses and
contingency fee litigation run amok.
   The Journal news staff tackled large and complex issues
like the use and abuse of technology in special reports as
well as daily coverage. With the participation of its
editions in Europe and Asia, the Journal sought to make sense
of global issues ranging from corporate competition to
interdependent financial markets. And, in covering America's
recession, Journal roundups sought out views on Main Streets
rather than relying merely on Wall Street or Washington
"experts."
   The Journal also remembered its role includes assisting
readers in their personal, as well as professional, lives.
Walter Mossberg's new column, "Personal Technology" offered
readers practical guidance on the world of gadgetry, while
"Your Money Matters" helped readers cope with personal
finances.
   The Journal benefits from standards and traditions evolved
over more than a century, from reporters with ethics as well
as expertise, from editors who judge themselves not only on
what they print but also on what they don't, and, above all,
from writing for the world's most substantive and discerning
readers.
   When we fail to live up to standards we set for ourselves
-- and which you expect of us -- we are troubled and dedicate
ourselves to re-earning your trust. When we succeed, your
support and loyalty is the source of our pride and pleasure.
No distinction -- not Pulitzer Prizes, not status as
largest-circulation newspaper in America, not our expansion
into global business daily -- is more important to us than
ranking in survey after survey as the most trusted news
medium.
   The Journal's adherence to journalistic traditions and
standards is accompanied by a similar set of business
standards. At a time when all too many publications sell
themselves to potential subscribers with gimmicks and
giveaways, portable telephones and luggage sets, the Journal
continues to sell the strengths of its news content and the
fundamental value that provides.
   Likewise in an era when all too many publications wheel
and deal with advertisers in a kind of media bazaar in which
the only thing customers can be sure of in getting a "great
deal" is that someone else is getting a better one, the
Journal believes in delivering fundamental value -- quality,
credibility and results -- for openly published and fairly
applied advertising rates. Our view is that the value a
publication provides its readers is the real value it
provides its advertisers.
   In the end, there are basic differences between
publications that enlighten or merely entertain, that are
essential or simply interesting to readers, that are trusted
or only read, that care more about who reads them than how
many.
   My colleagues in all departments of The Wall Street
Journal around the world join me in thanking you for your
trust and in wishing you and your families a peaceful and
prosperous 1992.
   Cordially,
                                                                                                       

   Peter R. Kann,
   Publisher