Economy:
   U.S. Says Canadian-Assembled Hondas
   Don't Qualify for Duty-Free Treatment
   ----
   By Eduardo Lachica
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The ruling results from a Customs Service audit that has
been the object of political controversy since Congress and
the U.S. press got wind of its existence last year. Lawmakers
from auto-producing states have appealed to President Bush to
take a tough position, and the president's re-election is
being challenged by a GOP opponent, Patrick Buchanan, who
wants to defend U.S. industry from foreign competition. For
their part, Honda officials have complained that Bush
administration policy has been driven by domestic politics.
   Officials of the Treasury and the Customs Service
explained the audit results to several American reporters who
were invited to a press briefing yesterday. Canadian and
Japanese reporters weren't invited, but a Treasury
spokeswoman said the two agencies are prepared to respond to
calls from all members of the press, regardless of
nationality. "This is a complicated issue, so we didn't think
it would lend itself to a general press conference," she
said. Another Treasury official said the Customs ruling
wasn't influenced by any political pressure.
   Although the decision applies only to Canadian shipments
under the bilateral trade pact, its political effect is to
put the Bush administration squarely in support of stricter
North American-content standards in negotiating a broader
trade agreement with both Canada and Mexico. But this stance
threatens to become a point of contention in negotiations
with Canada, which feels that the ruling undermines their
bilateral agreement.
   The decision was criticized by Roy MacLaren, a Liberal
Party member of Canada's Parliament, who said: "Unless there
is a clearer definition of the rules of trade in areas such
as content requirements and subsidies, Canadian exports
cannot hope to enjoy secure access and a level playing field
in the U.S."
   The Customs ruling rejects Honda's claim that the Civic
models it exports from its plant in Alliston, Ontario, are
duty-exempt because more than 50% of their value is of North
American origin. During the audit, Honda appeared to have
used the "roll-up" accounting system that can have the effect
of multiplying North American value through successive stages
of assembly. The Customs Service said it won't accept such
"double-counting."
   Using a hypothetical example, the Customs Service said
that if a door handle made in North America costs 49 cents
and requires two cents of labor to snap it into a frame, the
entire frame can be counted as 100% North American content,
even if another 49 cents of the frame is charged to parts
imported from Japan. But at further stages of assembly, Honda
can't pass off the frame as 100% North American content in
order to meet the 50% content requirement for the car as a
whole.
   "You can count it once, but you can't carry forward the
value of North American parts at successive levels of
production," said Samuel Banks, the assistant commissioner
for customs for commercial operations.
   The Customs Service also ruled that the finished Civic
engine blocks assembled at Honda's Anna, Ohio, plant have
less than 50% North American content. The Ohio plant uses
aluminum ingots and other U.S.-supplied materials, but the
engine sleeves, pistons and other parts are obtained from
non-North American sources, the service said.
   The Customs Service defined further what it would count as
North American costs besides those directly charged to
manufacturing or processing. For instance, costs incurred in
the U.S. and Canada for labor, utilities and quality control
would qualify, but not those for entertainment, travel
expenses and factory uniforms.
   The Honda ruling affects 91,506 Civics imported from
Canada between Jan. 1, 1989, and March 31, 1990. But Honda
warns that it could have a more broadly disruptive effect in
U.S.-Canadian trade relations. "This is a clear setback for
U.S.-Canada free trade," said Scott Whitlock, executive vice
president of Honda's U.S. subsidiary.
   Honda claims that Canada has qualified for duty-free
treatment the same Ohio-assembled engine blocks affected by
the U.S. Customs Service ruling. Mr. Whitlock said it's
"ridiculous" for Customs to disqualify a product that "Canada
has already accepted as American."
   There are administrative procedures through which Honda
can contest the ruling. If these fail, Honda can still file
an appeal with the U.S. Court of International Trade in New
York. The Canadian government already has given the U.S.
notice of its intent to appeal the Customs ruling under a
dispute-settlement provision of the free-trade agreement.