Time Warner Chief's Severance Package
   Could Be Worth as Much as $44.5 Million
   ----
   By Amanda Bennett
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
"By any standards, one would have to conclude that it
{will be} a generous and attractive severance arrangement,"
says Walton Winder, a vice president at consulting firm
Towers Perrin, which performed the analysis of the terms
disclosed in Time Warner's annual proxies.
   While many details of Mr. Nicholas's employment agreement
are spelled out in public documents, the final figure depends
on a number of assumptions, including agreement on how to
value his stock options. Still, the sum will almost certainly
surpass the controversial package given in 1987 to Thomas
Wyman, the CBS Inc. chairman and chief executive officer who
left the company in a dispute with major shareholders. Mr.
Wyman was given $2.8 million in cash and a $400,000 annual
payment for life.
   Theoretically, Mr. Nicholas could be given nothing at all
beyond what he's already earned. Time Warner maintains that
Mr. Nicholas's departure was voluntary -- which under his
employment contract wouldn't require any additional payments
by the company. But compensation professionals say that would
be almost unprecedented at such senior levels. "In any of
these situations you want the guy to go away and not write a
book about `My Days at Time Warner,'" says compensation
consultant Michael Guthman of the consulting firm Hewitt
Associates.
   Towers Perrin based its estimate on Mr. Nicholas's
employment agreement, disclosed in the company's 1991 proxy
statement, and on its assessment of the value of his stock
options as outlined in other proxy materials. The employment
agreement covers Mr. Nicholas's full-time employment at Time
Warner through July of 1999. Based on the salary and bonus of
$2.4 million disclosed in last year's proxy statement, the
present value -- that is, the value today of future earnings
-- of his salary and bonus over the rest of his contract is
$13.8 million.
   His contract also promises deferred compensation equal to
half his annual bonus, which suggests a present value of an
additional $3 million.
   Mr. Nicholas's employment agreement also calls for an
additional five years' consulting arrangement at an amount
that, based on the last reported compensation arrangement,
would total roughly $2.25 million a year. At that rate, the
present value of that consulting arrangement would be $5.7
million.
   The contract doesn't make clear whether Mr. Nicholas would
be owed payment only for his 10-year full-time contract, or
for the additional five years' consultancy. Thus, the
possible reimbursement for his cash compensation could range
from $16.8 million to $22.5 million.
   As for stock options, it appears that the smallest amount
Mr. Nicholas would leave with would be the paper profit he
has already accrued on stock options he now holds. According
to the 1991 proxy statement, the most recent record publicly
available, Mr. Nicholas held 531,000 options to buy Time
Warner stock. Towers Perrin figures that gain to be about
$7.2 million.
   A more generous settlement would buy out his stock options
based on an estimated value over their remaining life. One
widely used formula suggests a theoretical value of $22
million for those options.
   Mr. Nicholas also takes with him pension benefits that
yield him $685,000 a year to be paid beginning at age 65.