Study Faults Use
   Of Job-Training
   Funds by the U.S.
   ----
   By Gary Putka
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
High/Scope is best known for its design of the Perry
Preschool program, which was a model for the federal Head
Start program and has yielded much research supporting added
government preschool spending over the years. The group's
latest finding is likely to be used by JTPA's critics, who
have said the program currently trains too many people for
low-wage jobs with little hope of advancement.
   "The JTPA money can and should be spent better," says
Michael Bruno, director of High/Scope's adolescent programs.
"We're spending billions now for job training, much of it for
placing people in dead-end jobs. Here's a program that can
use the money in a way that will place the people in
college."
   Mr. Bruno also said that the High/Scope progam's results
were evidence that the rules governing JTPA spending should
be rewritten to guide more of the money toward younger
people, because it would create larger benefits in the long
term. Currently, people from 14 years of age and older
qualify, but the bulk of funds are spent on adults older than
23. The average hourly wage of workers placed by JTPA is
$5.85, much less than a college graduate's starting salary.
   Gary Kaplan, executive director of Jobs for Youth, a
JTPA-funded program in Boston, took issue with Mr. Bruno's
assessment. "The case that the money is well spent on younger
kids is fine, but let's not take it away from older kids to
do it. The program is underfunded as it is."
   Carolyn Golding, deputy asssistant secretary of the
Department of Labor, which administers JTPA, said that "there
are a variety of programs available for academic enrichment
but there are plenty of older people in JTPA who wouldn't be
eligible for any other training without the program." She
said the 650 local administrative bodies for JTPA have
freedom to allocate funds however they choose.
   Students in the High/Scope study came from families that
qualified for poverty assistance and scored among the top 25%
of their class on standardized achievement tests. High/Scope
found that the intervention program was especially effective
for students who weren't performing well in school. Of this
group, 66% attended college or enrolled in other
post-secondary training, compared with only 29% of students
not in the intervention program.
   The program removed students from their school for the
last four weeks of the school year and enrolled them in
High/Scope-managed classes in an old farmstead in Clinton,
Mich. The students were required to plan a variety of
projects in the arts, sciences and engineering, carry them
out and record the lessons learned, fostering co-operative
learning practices whose effectiveness has been supported by
other academic research.