Health:
   Videos, Questionnaires Aim to Expand
   Role of Patients in Treatment Decisions
   ----
   By Ron Winslow
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
"The goal is to educate patients as much as possible about
their condition and encourage their participation in the
treatment decision," says Dr. Michael J. Barry, director of
preventive care at Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston,
and a member of the medical team that is developing the
programs for the Foundation for Informed Medical Decision
Making.
   Researchers believe such information will prove a boon not
only to individual patients but also to the nation's troubled
health-care system. It would start to infuse a health-care
market dominated by the preferences of doctors and other
suppliers of care with the kind of consumer power that drives
other industries.
   "We're shifting the environment from one where doctors
choose the treatment to one in which patients make the
choice," says Dr. John E. Wennberg, professor of community
and family medicine at Dartmouth-Hitchcock Medical Center in
Hanover, who devised the interactive video project. "We're
beginning to democratize the doctor-patient relationship."
   Other approaches are aimed at the same goal. At the Health
Institute at New England Medical Center in Boston, Sherrie
Kaplan and her colleagues are coaching patients in waiting
rooms just before their 15-minute sessions with their
doctors. "Most of us don't prepare ourselves for that visit,"
she says. One result: On average, patients ask fewer than
four questions during a doctor's appointment. Dr. Kaplan's
research shows that patients who are coached to focus on
issues they want to raise are much more assertive.
   John Ware, another researcher at New England Medical
Center, has developed with colleagues there and at Rand
Corp., a Santa Monica, Calif., think tank, a short
questionnaire that yields a score indicating a patient's
functional status. When it's filled out just before a
doctor's visit, it can help both patient and physician focus
not only, say, on whether medication has lowered blood
pressure but also whether a patient's overall well-being has
improved.
   Early experience with the videos indicates that the
results of such efforts can be profound. At Kaiser Permanente
Medical Group in Denver, the rate of prostate surgery among
its members plunged 44% in the first year after doctors began
showing patients the prostate video in a pilot project
involving more than 250 patients. At Group Health of Puget
Sound, a health maintenance organization in Seattle, surgery
rates initially fell 60%.
   No wonder that health insurers as well as HMOs like Kaiser
and Group Health figure the videos may be a powerful weapon
in reducing unnecessary surgery and other procedures. "We'd
like to see this approach on as broad a scale as possible as
quickly as possible," says Frank Greaney, executive vice
president, Blue Cross and Blue Shield of New Hampshire.
   The idea for the videos grew out of Dr. Wennberg's
research into variation in medical practice. He and his
colleagues found, for instance, that more than three quarters
of the elderly men in one Maine town had undergone prostate
surgery, compared with less than a quarter of the men the
same age in an adjacent town.
   Similar variations exist across a wide spectrum, from
treatment of childhood ear infections to coronary artery
disease, and they reflect a lack of consensus over the best
way to treat many common illnesses. The differences also
suggest that patients treated with the most aggressive -- and
usually most expensive -- remedies often don't fare any
better than those treated conservatively. In such cases, Dr.
Wennberg believes, patient rather than physician preference
should drive the decision.
   It's an idea grounded in common sense but fraught with
challenges. Doctors, especially surgeons, are trained to make
decisions and take aggressive action in the interest of their
patients. And many doctors believe they should present
options personally, not use high-tech gadgetry.
   Doctors working in a traditional setting might also resist
programs that could steer patients away from surgery. When
the prostate video program was installed in a practice in
Iowa where doctors were often paid on a fee-for-service
basis, few patients were urged to watch it. "It was far
easier to do this project at an HMO with salaried physicians
who don't have an economic {stake in} surgery," says Dr. Paul
Barrett, associate medical director of Kaiser Permanente's
Colorado region, who oversees the pilot project there.
   To surmount such hurdles, the foundation plans to
disseminate the videos, and the computer hardware needed to
run them, only in doctors offices or hospitals, so that
patients can discuss their reactions with their doctors. "The
videos aren't endrunning the doctors," says Mass General's
Dr. Barry.
   And the researchers are taking pains to provide balanced
presentations. For instance, a prostate video features a
patient who underwent surgery to relieve painful urinary
blockages and is thrilled with the results. Another patient,
who rejected surgery in favor of a choice Dr. Wennberg calls
"watchful waiting," says he's satisfied even though he has to
take care to get aisle seats when he goes to the theater. The
program also frankly describes possible complications from
surgery that can result in incontinence or impotence.
   After Jack Anderson, a 60-year-old retired science
teacher, saw the video at the Kaiser health plan in Denver,
he decided against surgery, at least for now, despite
occasional blockages and other symptoms. "The video confirmed
everything," says Mr. Anderson, who wasn't eager to have an
operation. "After seeing the pros and cons, I feel good about
what I'm doing."
   Harlan Gordon, 68 years old, of Arvada, Colo., was
suffering severe symptoms when he viewed the video, he says,
and "I saw that `watchful waiting' wasn't going to cure it,
so I opted for the operation."
   Whether the sharp reduction in surgery rates in the
initial tests will be maintained isn't certain. Many men who
put off surgery may ultimately want it. And once the video --
which currently describes only surgery and watchful waiting
-- is updated to include drugs and other procedures, patients
who would normally resist surgery might try an intermediate
approach.
   Videos for back pain, blood pressure and breast cancer are
nearly ready for testing. Meantime, others for hysterectomy,
cardiovascular disease, arthritis, prostate cancer and
cataract removal are among those on the drawing boards.
   Blue Cross and Blue Shield of New Hampshire is considering
reimbursing doctors up to $50 anytime they refer a patient to
view a program. The national Blue Cross and Blue Shield
Association may recommend the videos as an alternative to
second opinions. And Joseph Kasper, president of the Hanover
foundation, says some large companies are considering showing
the videos at work sites under the supervision of a company
physician.
   Supporters of the video programs see two other major
advantages. Even doctors who were initially skeptical of the
idea have come to recognize their value in providing
information to patients in a comprehensive and unbiased way.
"Some doctors have a reluctance or an inability to explain"
information well, says Richard Loya, another Denver patient
who viewed the program and opted against surgery. "This was a
very professional presentation, and I don't think the doctor
would have been as effective."
   Which leads to patient satisfaction, an important asset in
hotly competitive health-care markets. "Even if rates hadn't
gone down," says Dr. Edward Wagner, medical director at Group
Health of Puget Sound, "patient reaction is so positive, we
would still consider using it."
   ---
                    Informing Patients
                                                                                                       

   Here are the options discussed in videos produced by the
Foundation for Informed Medical Decision Making in Hanover,
N.H.
                                                                                                       

   ILLNESS -- Mild Hypertension (diastolic blood pressure
level range: 90 to 99)
   CHOICES -- Monitor blood pressure; change diet and other
personal habits; drug treatment.
                                                                                                       

   ILLNESS -- Low back pain
   CHOICES -- Surgery; nonsurgical treatment, including
exercise, medication, chiropractice and acupunture.
                                                                                                       

   ILLNESS -- Benign prostate disease
   CHOICES -- Prostatectomy (prostate surgery); `watchful
waiting' (monitoring symptoms).
                                                                                                       

   ILLNESS -- Early-stage breast cancer
   CHOICES -- Mastectomy; lumpectomy and radiation
              Follow-up Therapy: chemotherapy; hormonal
              therapy; no agressive treatment.