OTC Focus:
   Nasdaq Index Declines 0.56% in Wake
   Of Negative Consumer-Confidence Data
   ----
   By Dave Pettit
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The Nasdaq Composite Index dropped 3.53, or 0.56%, to
621.40. Declining issues outpaced advancers, 1,370-to-867.
National Market System volume climbed to 160,700,000 shares
from 138,910,000 Monday.
   Big Board shares finished similarly weak. The New York
Stock Exchange Composite Index lost 0.94, or 0.41%, while the
Dow Jones Industrial Average dropped 24.59, or 0.75%.
   "Today was a continuation of what we have been seeing for
the past several weeks," said Leslie Seff, head of Nasdaq
trading at Gruntal  Co. He said the consumer confidence
reading gave pause to investors who were already concerned
about the market's near-term prospects following the recent
upward drift in long-term interest rates.
   OTC stocks, though, managed to close well above their
intraday low, at which the Nasdaq Composite was down more
than eight points. But although some buying emerged in the
afternoon, traders said they don't expect a renewed upturn in
the market immediately.
   "I still think it's a nervous market and I think there
might be another day or two of {losses} before we get another
rally," said Lance Zipper, manager of Nasdaq trading at
Kidder Peabody. The trader, though, noted that bond prices
turned higher yesterday after their recent weakness.
Continued strength in bonds, Mr. Zipper said, could help to
revive stocks.
   Even with yesterday's sluggish OTC market conditions,
shares of new issue Scholastic Corp. soared to 28 1/4 from
their offering price of $22.50. The distributor and publisher
of children's books and educational materials was the subject
of a 4.8 million-share initial public offering. Trading
volume in the stock was nearly 5.7 million shares yesterday.
   Both the size and price of the issue were increased from
the levels expected at the time the offering was announced
last month. The issue was to have totaled 4.3 million shares,
including 3,250,000 shares offered by the company and
1,050,000 sold by existing holders. Under the expanded issue,
the company increased its portion by 500,000 shares.
   Scholastic, based in New York, originally had proposed a
4.3 million-share IPO in 1990, but was prompted by market
conditions to withdraw those plans. The company was taken
private in a 1987 leveraged buy-out led by Chairman Richard
Robinson, a son of company founder Maurice R. Robinson, and
other members of the Robinson family and management.
   The company will use its $78 million in proceeds from the
offering to reduce debt. Meanwhile, the issue will generate
substantial profits for selling shareholders, who purchased
their shares at an average price of $1.60 a share. The IPO
will reduce existing holders' stake to about 55%.
   Robert Natale, who follows the new-issues market as editor
of Standard  Poor's Emerging and Special Situations
newsletter, issued a "purchase" recommendation on
Scholastic's shares at their originally expected pricing
range of $18 to $21 each. The analyst said yesterday's sharp
price gain hasn't changed his view of the stock.
   "It was one of the most attractive IPOs that we have seen
in the past few months," Mr. Natale said, adding, "Even now I
would say it's fairly valued."
   Excluding a nonrecurring charge, Mr. Natale expects
Scholastic to earn about $1.25 a share in the fiscal year
that ends in May. That gives the stock a price-to-earnings
ratio of about 22 at yesterday's closing price. Although that
ratio is somewhat above the P/E of other publishing stocks,
Mr. Natale said: "Considering the consistency of its earnings
and its competitive position, one can still justify that
{P/E} on a long-term basis."
   Intel dropped 1 5/8 to 63 3/4. An arbitrator late Monday
granted Advanced Micro Devices the rights to the technologies
included in its clone of Intel's 386 microprocessor and
ordered Intel to pay that concern $15.3 million in damages.
The arbitrator's decision was part of an ongoing dispute
between the companies. Federal court proceedings regarding a
related lawsuit are scheduled to begin next month. In New
York Stock Exchange composite trading, Advanced Micro added
1/8 to 19 1/4.
   Electronic Arts fell 2 1/2 to 48 3/4. Alex. Brown  Sons
analyst W. Christopher Mortenson downgraded his rating on the
stock to "buy" from "strong buy," Dow Jones Professional
Investor Report said. The analyst cited the stock's recent
price appreciation. Electronic Arts had set new 52-week highs
in each of the prior three sessions.
   Yellow Freight lost 7/8 to 31. The company said it will
take a first-quarter charge of $12 million related to an
accounting change. In the year-ago quarter, the Overland
Park, Kan., trucker earned $5.6 million, or 20 cents a share.
   Marsam Pharmaceuticals declined 1 1/8 to 10 7/8 after the
company posted fourth-quarter net income of two cents a
share, unchanged from the year-ago level. One analyst
surveyed by Zacks Investment Research had expected net to
rise to three cents a share in the latest quarter.
   Boston Bancorp gained 7/8 to 29 3/4. The company reported
net from operations of 95 cents a share for its first
quarter, ended Jan. 31, up from year-ago net income of 51
cents a share.
   Condor Services rose 1 to 3 1/2. The El Segundo, Calif.,
company posted fourth-quarter earnings of 19 cents a share,
reversing a year-ago loss of 33 cents.