Japanese Purchases of U.S. Firms
   Plunged in 1991 as Caution Grew
   ----
   By Randall Smith
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Last year, publicly reported Japanese acquisitions of U.S.
corporations and related investments tumbled to $3.8 billion
from $11.9 billion in 1990, according to the Japan MA
Reporter published by Ulmer Brothers, a New York investment
bank.
   Daniel M. Schwartz, an Ulmer managing director, said that
Japanese companies have had increasing difficulty in raising
money for U.S. acquisitions. The reasons include the weak
Tokyo stock market, higher Japanese interest rates and
lending restrictions on Japanese banks, he said.
   In addition, there has been "greater caution among
Japanese companies who have been disappointed with the
results from prior years' deals," Mr. Schwartz said. In some
cases, he said, "I think there's an increasing perception
that they paid more than they had to."
   The Japanese pullback is an abrupt reversal from 1990,
when the Japanese eclipsed British companies to become the
biggest foreign buyers of U.S. companies. In 1991, by
contrast, companies from both Britain and France outpaced the
Japanese in announced U.S. takeovers, according to Securities
Data Co.
   Securities Data, which compiles takeover data using a
different method than Ulmer's, said French companies were the
biggest foreign buyers last year, announcing $7.8 billion in
acquisitions of U.S. companies, compared with $3.1 billion
for British companies and $2.1 billion for Japanese concerns.
   The shrinking size of the largest Japanese investments in
the high-profile U.S. entertainment business illustrates
Japanese companies' diminished appetite for megadeals. In
1989, Sony Corp. agreed to pay $3.5 billion for Columbia
Pictures; in 1990, Matsushita Electric Industrial Co. agreed
to acquire MCA Inc. for $6.1 billion. But in 1991, the
largest Japanese investment in any U.S. company was a $1
billion stake that Toshiba Corp. and C. Itoh  Co. agreed to
take in a subsidiary of Time Warner Inc.
   Peter Peterson, chairman of Blackstone Group, a U.S.
mergers boutique which has advised on several big Japanese
acquisitions, says that such minority stakes as the Time
Warner deal are in keeping with the desire of Japanese
companies to be more "low-profile," in order to avoid a
political backlash in the U.S. against their big late80s
deals.
   Mr. Peterson also noted that some Japanese companies now
prefer to build their own plants in the U.S., rather than
acquiring existing U.S. companies whose plants and equipment
may need upgrading. These so-called greenfield investments
also seem more palatable to U.S. politicians, he added,
noting that many U.S. governors are courting such investments
assiduously to win new jobs and tax revenue.
   Investment bankers say other factors have contributed to
the Japanese pullback. Ulmer's Mr. Schwartz said that in some
past Japanese takeovers, "the strategic reasons for the
acquisition have broken down." For example, Mr. Schwartz
noted that soon after Japanese tire maker Bridgestone Corp.
paid $2.6 billion in 1989 to acquire Firestone Corp., one of
Firestone's biggest customers "pulled their contract" to buy
Firestone tires.
   Stephen Waters, co-head of mergers at Morgan Stanley 
Co., said that Japanese disenchantment with the U.S. extends
to other areas, such as junk bonds, where Japanese investors
incurred big losses when that market collapsed starting in
1989.
   Mr. Waters noted that new Japanese caution is also evident
in the U.S. art market, where Japanese buying has all but
dried up.