Former Executives
   Of Amre Reach
   SEC Consent Pacts
   ----
   By Karen Blumenthal and Christi Harlan
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
In reaching the agreements, Steven D. Bedowitz, former
chairman and chief executive officer; Robert Levin, former
chief operating officer and chief financial officer, and
Dennie D. Brown, former controller and vice president,
operations, neither admitted to nor denied the allegations.
But they agreed that they wouldn't violate securities laws in
the future.
   In its civil complaint, the SEC charged that Mr. Levin
directed the accounting changes that inflated Amre's earnings
by more than $8 million at one point and Mr. Brown made the
adjustments. Mr. Bedowitz didn't learn of the scheme until
after it was under way, but joined in trying to conceal the
inaccurate results released by the direct marketer of
cabinets and siding, the SEC charged.
   The SEC said the overstatements, which began with
first-quarter earnings released in September 1987, were made
so the company's results would match projections made when it
went public in February 1987. To disguise its shortfalls,
Messrs. Levin and Brown first artificially reduced the
company's expenses related to generating leads by
capitalizing the costs or counting them as assets on its
balance sheet. Then, to continue meeting projections, it
overstated inventories and revenue, the SEC charged.
   By late 1988, the SEC said, the officials decided to
discontinue the scheme and to include some of its fictitious
assets in the write-offs related to a discontinued
subsidiary. That wasn't enough, so further improper
write-offs were taken, understating profit for the year ended
April 30, 1989. The SEC charged that the men violated
securities laws by falsifying records, misleading the
company's auditors and reporting false information.
   Mr. Levin, 44, who still owns 17% of the company's stock,
agreed to pay $1.1 million, plus interest of $182,706,
representing losses he avoided by selling 100,000 Amre shares
in 1988. Those funds will go to an escrow account created to
settle a 1989 shareholder lawsuit against Amre. Mr. Levin
also agreed to pay a $500,000 penalty under the Insider
Trading Sanctions Act, which will go to the U.S. Treasury.
   Mr. Brown, 40, agreed to pay $14,000, plus interest of
$1,890, for selling 1,640 shares in April 1988. A $14,000
insider trading penalty was waived because he doesn't have
the funds to pay it, according to court documents. Mr.
Bedowitz, 49, who owns 34% of the stock, didn't sell stock
during the period.