Marketing  Media:
   If Snow Is Forecast,
   The Tour of Tahiti
   Will Be Irresistible
   ---
   Parent of Weather Channel
   To Pay About $50 Million
   For TWA Travel Channel
   ----
   By Mark Robichaux
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
If the deal is sealed, Landmark Communications Inc., the
Weather Channel's parent, will pay about $50 million for the
Travel Channel, a subsidiary of Trans World Airlines. For
TWA, it would end a woeful and troubled venture into the
on-the-air business.
   Synergy was exactly what TWA's chief executive, Carl
Icahn, had in mind when he put the Travel Channel on the air
five years ago, in part to promote the beleaguered airline.
But TWA had invested more than $25 million by the end of
1990, and the channel has yet to make a profit. The channel
has run losses of about $7 million a year, and subscriber
growth has been grounded at 10 million to 15 million
subscribers.
   Cable-TV operators frowned upon the Travel Channel's ties
to TWA, including relentlessly cheery coverage of TWA
bargains. One show called "Travel Bargains" aired two or
three hours a day and offered bargain rates on TWA airline
tickets and travel packages, urging viewers to call an 800
number.
   "I believed in the concept from early on," says Fred
Dressler, vice president, programming, for Time Warner Inc.'s
American Television  Communications Inc. cable unit. "But
when they first launched, they looked like a shopping service
as opposed to a travel service."
   But why would TWA sell out, given the obvious promotional
advantages of the cable service? "We are interested in
`Travel Bargains,'" Mr. Icahn says. "We aren't interested in
losing $7 million a year." TWA will, however, pay the new
owner to keep three hours of airtime on the channel for TWA
products and destinations for the next three years.
   Landmark will keep many of the shows, which included "The
Perfect Trip," featuring "the world's most sparkling
destinations]" and the equally enthusiastic program, "The
World Through Celebrity Eyes."
   Landmark, which launched the Weather Channel in 1982 and
has watched it grow to 50 million subscribers, will probably
merge the two operations to save marketing and production
costs. "There are logical relationships between weather and
travel, and we have a lot of ideas," says Michael Eckert,
president of the broadcasting and video enterprises division
at Landmark. "Like, don't go to Iraq in January."