Wall Street Firms Rush to Neutralize
   Or Kill Plan to Boost Tax on Securities
   ----
   By William Power and Kevin G. Salwen
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
The proposal was a shocker for a Wall Street that stood
ready to endorse many other aspects of President Bush's plan
to stimulate the economy. Now the industry is locking arms to
fight the proposed tax.
   Changing the way securities positions are taxed would take
away what is "probably the major income-sheltering device
used by brokerage firms," said Robert N. Gordon, president of
Twenty-First Securities Corp. in New York. He said brokerage
firms will either have to "start paying the taxes . . . or
find some other type of transaction to lower the tax bill" as
companies in other industries do.
   Wall Street traders already are coming up with possible
ways to minimize the proposed tax -- which is far from
certain to pass muster on Capitol Hill. For example, some
firms are weighing whether to do more "deferral trades,"
often involving the year-end sale and later repurchase of
millions of dollars in Treasury bonds, which allow them to
take deductions in one year and pocket the proceeds of trades
in the next.
   While Wall Street figures its options, its lobbyists will
take their pleas to Congress, where lawmakers had little idea
that the plan was coming. Many senior aides for the
tax-writing committees didn't learn about the proposal until
Wednesday.
   But Treasury officials offered a hint of their strategy
last summer, when they first proposed rules to use current
valuations for taxes on swaps, which are contracts in which
investors exchange interest rate payments or currencies. It
was the first clear sign that government officials were
uneasy with the way the brokerage houses calculate income for
tax purposes.
   The tax change could be a blow in particular for any
brokerage firms heavily involved in "derivative" securities,
complex trades involving options and futures that can take
months or years to complete. Major derivatives players
include Merrill Lynch  Co., American Express Co.'s Shearson
Lehman Brothers Inc., Morgan Stanley Group Inc., Salomon Inc.
and Goldman, Sachs  Co.
   Already, securities professionals are claiming that the
new tax plan singles out Wall Street unfairly. They say there
isn't another industry where taxes must be paid on gains in
inventories, rather than on actual profits.
   "I can't think of any other industry" where that happens,
says Donald Andres, a tax partner at accountants Ernst 
Young in New York. "Inventory is inventory, and if General
Motors can use {the historical method}, why can't the
securities industry?"
   Others in the industry say that Wall Street needs to
settle down after a tumultuous period. "We've already had a
giant consolidation in the {brokerage} industry, and we think
enough is enough," said John L. Steffens, a Merrill executive
vice president and co-head of the tax policy committee of the
Securities Industry Association, Wall Street's main trade
group.
   Capitol Hill staffers speculated that Treasury is swinging
back at the two industries that fought hardest to defeat the
agency's banking-reform bill last year. Treasury officials
had called the banking measure their most important measure
of last year, but it emerged from Congress gutted under
pressure from securities firms and insurers. In Mr. Bush's
budget released Wednesday, he also proposed stripping away
major tax advantages from new annuities, a move that
insurance executives say could cripple that industry.
   And Wall Street may be an inviting target. The securities
industry has just posted record profits for 1991. Industry
leader Merrill earned $696.1 million in 1991; the securities
industry's total pretax profits are estimated to have
exceeded $5.5 billion.
   An $800 million annual extra tax bill would represent 15%
of Wall Street's anticipated pretax profits in 1991. "We're
just recovering; now they want to sock us," complained an
executive at one major brokerage firm, who asked not to be
named.
   The issue is a particularly hot one for Wall Street
because of the huge inventories of stocks, bonds and other
securities that brokerage firms keep on hand. Even after
trimming inventories in recent years, Merrill says it has
$24.3 billion of securities in inventory, and Shearson, the
nation's second-biggest brokerage firm, has $25.5 billion.
Salomon, despite reducing inventory after its
Treasury-auction bidding scandal, still has $51.7 billion of
securities on hand, and billions more as part of short-term
financing agreements.
   Many big securities firms turn over their entire
inventories every week or so.
   Currently, brokerage houses can calculate their taxes
using either the year-end value or the "historical-cost"
method. For most firms, that's an easy choice: For securities
that have increased in value, they use the historical price
they paid; for losers, they simply use current value. So the
firms get to record the loss and aren't forced to take the
gain when figuring out the value of their portfolios for tax
purposes.
   That dates from the 1920s, when the Internal Revenue
Service gave securities firms the option to choose their
method for determining income based on how they account for
their portfolios.
   But starting in 1973, accounting standards changed, and
now securities firms are forced to tell shareholders and
regulators the up-to-date market value of their portfolios
and the gains from those portfolios. So, the government
argues, the only one being asked to believe the reduced
numbers is the IRS. Treasury officials briefing Capitol Hill
staffers are calling the proposal a "loophole closer."
   The change, if approved by Congress, would take effect for
the current calendar year. But to ease into the program, the
Treasury Department said the switch will be phased in over 10
years, with each firm being required to increase its taxable
income each year by 10% of the difference between the market
value and the earlier hybrid accounting method.
   Treasury estimates that the plan would produce Wall Street
taxes of $200 million in the current fiscal year, $600
million next year and $800 million each of the subsequent
four years. The total gain for the Treasury would be $4
billion, the agency estimated.