Economy:
   Bush's Pro-Growth Spending Plan Shows
   Conflict With Budget-Cutting Record
   ----
   By David Rogers
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
In fact, many of the accounts covered by Mr. Bush's order
have been targeted for cuts by his own administration in the
past and again this year. And in some cases, even though Mr.
Bush boasts that he is acting unilaterally, he actually is
obliged to spend the funds quickly because of provisions
written into law by Congress in October.
   For example, documents distributed by the Office of
Management and Budget suggest that the administration will
make an extra $1.9 billion available largely by allocating
federal funds for farm ownership and operating loans in the
first two quarters of the current fiscal year. Not mentioned
is the fact that House and Senate Appropriations committees
added a requirement to the Agriculture Department budget in
the fall to require such a policy. The committees acted after
receiving complaints by lawmakers of foot-dragging by the
OMB.
   "To say that he is going to spend money that he has been
essentially ordered to do puts a false front on things," said
House Budget Committee Chairman Leon Panetta (D., Calif.).
"It's too cute by half and this shows it."
   Moreover, Mr. Bush's description of the programs as
"pro-growth expenditures" hardly fits his past budgets. For
example, for fiscal 1992 the president proposed to cut funds
for direct farm operating loans from $900 million to $410
million. And for the fiscal year beginning Oct. 1 he is
asking for $314 million, which is $536 million less than what
Congress finally approved for this year. The smaller farm
ownership loan program has fared somewhat better, but the
administration's new budget proposes to cut the program to
$28 million next year, or half the current appropriation.
   The president's "acceleration project" is dogged by
similar discrepancies in other areas. For example, the White
House now proposes to speed up the processing of
single-family loans under a federal rural housing program,
even though the administration has sought repeatedly to cut
hundreds of millions of dollars from this account in recent
years. Similarly, the administration says its can pump $3
billion into the economy by accelerating the processing of
grants to build waste-treatment facilities. But the OMB has
sought regularly to pare the appropriations approved by
Congress, and as vice president, Mr. Bush backed a Reagan
administration proposal in fiscal 1987 to phase out the
program entirely by 1990.
   Such contradictions are viewed with wry amusement and
irritation in Congress. Many lawmakers, including Mr.
Panetta, detect the hand of OMB Director Richard Darman. The
"acceleration project" is seen as a political effort to blunt
demands for a jobs bill to pump up public-works spending
further.
   Moreover, the $10 billion goal is elusive itself,
according to an analysis by the Congressional Budget Office.
"In most cases, this earlier availability is likely to have
no significant effect on the timing of cash outlays," the CBO
said in a report last month.
   Democrats are wary of committing themselves to major new
expenditures for the current fiscal year, and the greater
fight will be over the distribution of whatever savings are
achieved by cuts in the military budget next year. An
informal alliance has developed between the leaders of the
House Appropriations and Ways and Means committees on the
issue, but Robert Byrd, chairman of the Senate Appropriations
Committee, has been caught in a squeeze between his party
leadership and the tax-writing Finance Committee.
   Appearing before the Senate Budget Committee, the West
Virginia Democrat argued strongly against using defense
savings for a tax cut. He later signaled that his differences
with party leaders was such that he had declined to serve on
a task force appointed by Majority Leader George Mitchell.