GE's Railcar Unit Plans Big Expansion
   By Leasing Most of Rival Itel's Fleet
   ----
   By James C. Hyatt
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The transaction is contingent upon Itel's making a public
debt offering, perhaps as large as $1.1 billion, with
principal and interest to be provided by the proceeds of GE's
lease payments. Itel shareholders must approve the deal.
   The transaction "provides a lot of flexibility for Itel
and for us," a spokeswoman for Chicago-based GE Capital
Railcar Services said. Itel is also based in Chicago.
   If completed, the arrangement will boost GE Capital's
owned and managed fleet to about 140,000 railcars from more
than 68,000 railcars. It also operates 10 repair facilities
and six wheel remanufacturing shops. GE Capital said its
fleet would be "the most diverse and youngest fleet in the
industry."
   The transaction is a 12-year lease with a fixed price
purchase option, effectively combining the railcar operations
of the two companies. Rod Dammeyer, Itel's president, said
proceeds "will be used to reduce existing higher cost debt on
both the rail car fleet and other debt of Itel Corp., as well
as for general corporate purposes."
   In what it calls an effort to simplify its capital
structure and trim its debt load, Itel has recently been
shedding assets at a rapid pace.
   Slightly more than a year ago, it sold GE Capital its
container-leasing assets for about $950 million, recording a
hefty gain on the deal. The company has also sold its 21%
stake in American President Cos. for $78.7 million, booking a
loss. Also in 1991, it sold its Great Lakes Dredge & Dock
unit to a limited partnership for about $165 million. And in
October, it sold its 15% stake in Santa Fe Pacific Corp.
through a public offering. And on its books, Itel lists the
merchant-banking portfolio of Signal Capital Corp., with a
book value of about $365 million, as an "asset for sale."
   An Itel spokeswoman stressed that the move announced
Tuesday isn't part of that asset-disposition effort. "The
assets remain on our books," she said. "This is not a sale,
strictly a lease" agreement.
   While Itel's holdings are subject to frequent changes,
reflecting Mr. Zell's varying investing interests, the
railcar leasing unit has for a long time been a core company
holding. Itel's principal other remaining operation is its
Anixter wire-and-cable distribution unit.
   Disclosure of the agreement with GE sent Itel shares up 25
cents in composite New York Stock Exchange trading Tuesday,
to close at $18.875.
   Standard & Poor's Corp. reacted positively to the Itel
announcement, saying it put about $950 million of Itel's
subordinated debt and convertible preferred stock, as well as
other debt, on its CreditWatch list with positive
implications. S&P said the proposal will "greatly enhance
liquidity and allow Itel to prepay high-cost existing debt."
   S&P said the rentals would support about $250 million of
noncallable Itel Rail debt and up to $900 million of new
notes to be issued through a trust.
   Itel said the amount of debt to be offered depends upon
interest rates, and the extent to which creditors of the rail
car fleet elect to continue their loans or be paid with
proceeds of the new debt. Principal and interest of the new
debt, as well as existing fleet debt not prepaid, will be
paid from about $150 million in annual lease payments from
the GE unit. GE Railcar will have the option to purchase the
fleet for about $500 million.
   GE's unit leases a wide variety of railcars such as
tankers, hopper cars and box cars for periods from six months
to five years. As with other equipment leasing arrangements,
leasing permits shippers to reduce capital investment costs,
handle extra demand in peak periods, and permit different
debt structures.
   The GE railcar spokeswoman noted that railcar leasing "is
a cyclical industry, which changes in a fairly long cycle.
Our business is doing very well. We see the railroad industry
positioned for success in the coming years, and we want to be
part of that story."
   She said the unit currently has just over 95% of its fleet
on lease, compared to over 97% a year ago.
   GE Capital lists its railcar assets at $1.4 billion; the
fleet has grown from 38,000 in 1986 to 68,800 at the end of
1990. The company considers that it has ranked second among
independent companies in the railcar leasing industry behind
Itel.
   The largest railroad leasing operation, Chicago-based TTX
Co., a consortium owned by major railroads, has a fleet of
100,000 cars, most of them flat cars for containers and for
hauling new automobiles. There's little overlap with its
fleet and the GE/Itel fleet, noted Ray Burton, president of
TTX.
   ---
   James P. Miller contributed to this article.