The New Order:
   Iran Is Re-Emerging
   As a Mideast Power
   As Iraqi Threat Fades
   ---
   Cash-Hungry Ex-Soviets Sell
   Tehran Potent Weapons,
   And Washington Worries
   ---
   Buying Used Russian Subs
   ----
   By Gerald F. Seib
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Iran has embarked on a broad rearming effort in which it
appears to be acquiring advanced jets, tanks, missiles and,
most curiously, used submarines, U.S. analysts say. Above
all, Iran is buying gear from Russia and former Soviet
satellites to revive its air force and arm a more heavily
equipped army than it had during its war with Iraq.
   Iran also seems to be embarked on its own nuclear-weapons
program, U.S. intelligence reports say. Iran denies this, but
some Iranian politicians openly champion the acquisition of
an "Islamic" nuclear bomb. At the same time, Iran is shedding
its image as patron only of radical Shiite Muslims by working
closely with Sunni Muslims in North Africa, in the
Palestinian movement and in former Soviet republics.
   "Their influence and standing are much higher," says
former national security adviser Zbigniew Brzezinski, who
stays in touch with world leaders. "They must be laughing
when we rage about Iraq when they're doing everything Iraq is
doing and more."
   In part, Iran is re-emerging simply because it is a big,
ambitious and historically potent nation. But to an uncanny
degree, Iran also has benefited from virtually all the
cataclysmic events that have rocked the world in the last two
years.
   Operation Desert Storm crippled its biggest enemy, Iraq.
This made it plausible for Iran to seek military superiority
over Baghdad, something that was far from its reach in 1988,
when the exhausting eight-year Iran-Iraq war ended. Then,
just as Iran embarked on rearmament, the collapse of the
Soviet Union and the Warsaw Pact opened up a vast new arms
bazaar in which cash-starved Soviet-bloc nations are eager to
sell weapons cheaply.
   At the same time, the Soviet breakup has fundamentally
changed Iran's corner of the world. It has given Tehran "a
bigger playpen to operate in" by handing autonomy to six
Muslim-dominated former Soviet republics to Iran's north,
says former Defense Secretary James Schlesinger.
   Iran has jumped in and is trying to expand its influence
in ways big and small. In the last few weeks, for instance,
it has tried to mediate Azerbaijan's dispute with neighboring
Armenia, opened phone links to Turkmenistan and expressed
readiness to help develop oil reserves in the area.
   In its quest for expanded influence, Iran still will be
slowed by one significant obstacle: lingering economic
problems serious enough to provoke occasional demonstrations
and student strikes at home. Sagging world oil prices are
straining an Iranian budget already stretched by big bills
for government subsidies. Inflation, a chronic problem, is
estimated to have run above 20% most of last year.
   Iran's industrial structure, including its vital oil
industry, needs modernization, yet Tehran's revolutionary
government hasn't attracted much Western investment. And
while Iran's sheer size gives it some strategic advantages --
with 58 million people, it is bigger than the seven Arab gulf
states combined -- its high population growth rate of 3.3%
also strains its resources.
   "Eight years of war with Iraq took a hell of a lot out of
them, not just out of the military structure but out of the
whole social structure of the country," says Richard Helms, a
former CIA director and former ambassador to Tehran.
   Moreover, Iranian President Hashemi Rafsanjani's ability
to maneuver remains hampered by political splits between his
backers and more radical Muslim clerics in Iran's Majlis, or
parliament. He hopes to use parliamentary elections in April
to cut that radical bloc to a manageable minority.
   Despite those strains, Iran's enhanced long-term prospects
clearly are making U.S. officials and allies nervous.
   In the short term, Iran's goal probably is to simply build
up enough strength to ensure that it won't again be
vulnerable to Iraqi attack. But in the long run, it seems to
have broader goals. Iran apparently wants to exercise the
kind of influence over regional politics and world oil policy
that its leaders have always thought their big and
strategically important country should have. And its leaders
openly declare that they want to shepherd Islam's rising
power in the post-Cold War world.
   Iranian leaders across the political spectrum "still see
Iran as being the rightful dominant power in the region, and
being the Islamic leader in the world," says James Placke, a
former State Department aide who's now an energy consultant.
   In theory, an Iranian resurgence needn't be automatically
troubling to Washington. In decades past, Iran and the U.S.
have had similar interests, including a mutual suspicion of
Russia. Today, a strong Iran is the best counter to the
still-dangerous Saddam Hussein. The 1989 death of Ayatollah
Khomeini and Iran's efforts to free American hostages in
Lebanon raised hopes of a reconciliation.
   A report by a group of Mideast experts assembled by the
Center for Strategic and International Studies argues that
"because of Iran's pivotal importance for stability in the
Persian Gulf region . . . the United States should be
prepared to move toward improved relations with Iran,
provided Iran demonstrates readiness to play a constructive
role in the region."
   In fact, even though Iran remains the country Americans
love to hate, three straight U.S. administrations have
quietly lusted to rebuild ties to such a big and
strategically important land. That was never more clear than
the time two years ago when a heavily accented caller from
abroad phoned the White House, identified himself as Mr.
Rafsanjani and said he wanted to talk to President Bush about
rebuilding ties. The caller left a number, and Mr. Bush was
intrigued enough to call back and carry out a conversation
before determining the call was a hoax.
   But Washington and Tehran still appear irreconcilably
divided over a fundamental issue. In the wake of Desert
Storm, the U.S. wants expanded military ties to its Arab
friends in the region to better protect them and their oil
supplies. Iran is adamantly opposed. "We will never allow any
other power, whether from this area or from outside,
especially America, to become the gendarme of this oil-rich
and prosperous region of the world," declared Ayatollah Ali
Husseini Khamenei, Iran's spiritual leader, in a recent
speech to the Iranian air force.
   Iran's arms buildup suggests it wants to take care of some
of the regional police work itself. U.S. officials who have
tracked Iran's moves say the rearmament appears to have taken
root in 1989, when President Rafsanjani consolidated power in
a new constitution and Iran and the former Soviet Union
signed a multibillion-dollar cooperation deal that included
arms sales.
   That opening to Moscow, combined with Iran's pessimism
about ever being allowed open access to Western arms markets,
appears to have led to a basic decision to rebuild with
Soviet-designed gear. U.S. analysts believe that in 1990 Iran
launched a five-year, $10 billion program to buy such
equipment from a variety of sources, including China, North
Korea and the former Soviet republics.
   "It's almost entirely natural," says Shaul Bakhash, an
Iranian expatriate scholar at George Mason University. "Iran
lost a great deal of arms in the Iran-Iraq war and for eight
years or more had a great deal of difficulty buying." The
Bush administration has tried to pressure Russia to stop or
at least slow arms sales to Iran. But senior administration
aides say that, while Russia may curb sales somewhat, it is
so strapped for cash that it isn't likely to stop them.
   Iran's initial focus has been on reviving its air force,
once stocked with American jets that were lost or worn out in
its war with Iraq. U.S. officials say Iran has bought from
Moscow about 20 MiG-29s -- advanced fighters comparable to
U.S. F-18 Hornets -- and agreed to buy more MiGs to expand
its fleet to about 50 planes. Iran also has bought
less-advanced F-7 fighters from China; some U.S. analysts
think it has several dozen. And Iran has been buying Su-24
fighter-bombers from Russia, of which it may now have about a
dozen.
   Iran will also probably keep the more than 100 planes that
Iraqi pilots flew there to avoid destruction during Desert
Storm. Many are of limited use to Iran; it doesn't have the
training or spare parts for the French-built Iraqi Mirage
fighters, for instance, and may simply sell or trade them.
But the Iraqi fleet-in-exile does include some MiG-29s, a
squadron of Su-24s and about 35 Su-22s, an older
fighter-bomber. Iran probably can use all those itself.
   Meanwhile, U.S. officials say, Iran is shopping
intensively with Russia and Eastern Europe to buy hundreds of
T-72 tanks. Some U.S. analysts think Iran already has closed
one deal in Eastern Europe.
   Iran continues to buy Scud missiles from North Korea, U.S.
analysts say, and appears to be shopping for technology to
extend the range of its rockets. And according to one
intelligence report, China recently shipped Iran some
sensitive gyroscopes used in rocket guidance systems. Robert
Gates, the director of central intelligence, warned in
congressional testimony that Iran is likely to try to use
contacts in the former Soviet republic of Kazakhstan to "tap
into Soviet weapons technology."
   Perhaps the oddest intelligence U.S. officials have seen
are reports that Tehran has ordered two or three small
diesel-powered submarines from the former Soviet navy. U.S.
officials see signs the subs will be based at Chah Bahar, a
port outside the Persian Gulf, and surmise that Iran aims to
extend its influence beyond the Gulf and out into the Arabian
Sea.
   Most ominously, U.S. analysts see a series of signs Iran
has an expanded interest in building nuclear arms. Iran,
which had to virtually shut down the shah's once-ambitious
nuclear program after the 1979 Islamic revolution, still is
believed to be years from acquiring a nuclear capability. But
it now is in the midst of a big program of nuclear
cooperation with China in which the two exchange nuclear
scientists, officials say. Argentina recently decided to
cancel a nuclear-cooperation deal with Iran, but other
transactions on the world market continue.
   Iran insists all its nuclear activities are for peaceful
purposes. But some of its officials publicly declare the
Islamic world should work together to acquire nuclear weapons
as long as Israel has a nuclear arsenal. Ataollah Mohajerani,
a deputy president, said in a recent interview, "The Islamic
countries should collectively utilize their resources to
achieve nuclear strength."
   Politically, Iran's leaders clearly want to project
Iranian influence -- and are doing so in a more sophisticated
way. Tehran no longer openly threatens to subvert the
monarchies of the Persian Gulf. But it is steadily building
influence in Sudan, a poor north African country that borders
Egypt and lies just across the Red Sea from Saudi Arabia.
Sudan is run by Islamic fundamentalists, and Iran has set up
cultural centers, dispatched representatives to work in
mosques and sent advisers from its Revolutionary Guards to
help the Sudanese build paramilitary security units, U.S.
officials say.
   Iran also has long nurtured ties to the Islamic
fundamentalists who were on the verge of seizing power in
Algeria before a government crackdown there, officials say.
And Iran has fostered ties to Hamas, a relatively new
organization of Palestinian Islamic fundamentalists formed to
fight Israel. But perhaps nothing Iran has done in recent
months has so irked U.S. officials as its decision to be host
to a meeting last fall of "rejectionists." It brought
together Mideast radicals and terrorist leaders of every
stripe opposed to the American-led peace process.
   Those kinds of moves suggest that Iran thinks its
political and moral influence may be as potent as any weapons
it can buy. Mr. Rafsanjani suggested as much in a recent
speech. Iran, he said, is "the base of the new movement of
the world of Islam. . . . The eyes of Muslims world-wide are
focused here."