Bank of Boston, BayBanks Continue
   Recovery at New England Institutions
   ----
   By Joseph Pereira
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The company had a loss of $187 million, or $2.58 a share,
in last year's fourth quarter after a $21.3 million one-time
gain from the retirement of debt.
   BayBanks reported net income of $6.5 million, or 40 cents
a share, after a loss of $32.2 million, or $2.01 a share, a
year earlier.
   The turnarounds echo fourth-quarter results at other big
New England banks. This month, Fleet/Norstar Financial Group
and Shawmut National Corp. reported profits after
year-earlier losses.
   "What we may be seeing is a bottoming out of the economy,
but it's going to be a long road to recovery, full of peaks
and valleys," said Gerard Cassidy, banking analyst for Tucker
Anthony Inc.
   Because of the uncertainty of the New England economy,
officials at Bank of Boston refrained from making any bullish
long-range predictions. At best, operating profit will
"remain flattish for the next two quarters," said Peter
Manning, Bank of Boston's chief financial officer. After
that, performance will depend on how quickly the economy
revives, added Ira Stepanian, chairman and chief executive
officer. "The economy has not picked up," he said.
   Noting that the region will continue to see consolidation
in the banking industry, Mr. Stepanian said Bank of Boston
isn't closed to the notion of further acquisitions, now that
its planned merger with Shawmut has been called off.
   In fact, with the closing of about 40 New England banks
expected this year, Mr. Cassidy said, Bank of Boston is "more
than likely" to go out and buy some assets "as they become
available."
   A good chunk of Bank of Boston's gains come from earlier
aggressive housecleaning. In the fourth quarter, the bank set
aside $78 million in loan-loss provisions, down from $170
million in the 1990 fourth quarter.
   "The bank didn't have to take as large a provision {in the
latest quarter} because its management recognized bad loans
early and went after it aggressively," noted Mr. Cassidy.
"They ought to be commended on that."
   The results also reflect a leveling off of problem loans.
While real estate problems could still surface, Mr. Manning
expressed confidence that the "worst is behind us."
   Nonaccrual loans and "other real estate owned," or
foreclosed-on property, amounted to $1.51 billion as of Dec.
31, compared with $1.71 billion on Sept. 30 and $1.82 billion
on Dec. 31, 1990.
   Net interest revenue was $258 million, up from $231
million in the third quarter and $229 million in the 1990
quarter. Net interest margin was 3.6%, up from 3.2% in the
third quarter and approximately 2.9% a year ago.
   The increase in net interest revenue and margin from the
previous quarter reflects lower domestic funding costs,
improvements in Latin American results and receipt of
interest on previously charged-off loans, which more than
offset a $351 million decline in average earning assets, the
company said.
   Part of the gains at Baybanks came from the sale of
securities, which helped offset charges for bad loans. "We
have expected higher-than-normal levels of charge-offs to
continue as New England works its way through this difficult
recession," said William M. Crozier Jr., BayBanks chairman
and president. "At the same time, it is encouraging that
fewer new problems seem to be cropping up and more problems
are moving towards resolution."
   Net charge-offs in the quarter equaled $59.1 million, up
28% from $46.3 million in the 1990 quarter. Meanwhile, net
securities gains jumped 76% to $29.4 million from $15.8
million.
   BayBanks said nonperforming assets declined $44 million,
the third consecutive quarter they have fallen. Nonperforming
loans as of Dec. 31 were $262 million, down $68 million from
Sept. 30.