Advertising:
   Mercedes-Benz
   Awards Account
   To WPP's Scali
   ----
   By Joanne Lipman
"It's a vindication," said a giddy Marvin Sloves, Scali's
chairman, sounding much like Sally Field in her famous "You
like me]" Oscar speech. "It means we're a great ad agency.
It's one of the greatest brands in the world-and we got it."
   Scali bested the incumbent as well as Ally  Gargano and
the Richards Group of Dallas in the much-watched account
review by the Daimler-Benz unit. Scali's New York office will
share the account with its sister company, the Martin Agency,
of which Scali bought majority control in 1986. The two shops
had total billings of $365 million last year. Scali will
create national brand advertising, while Martin, based in
Richmond, Va., will handle regional and local campaigns.
   The account was McCaffrey's largest, by far. Competitors
estimate that about 100 employees work on the business,
though McCaffrey won't comment. Making matters worse,
McCaffrey lost what had been its second-largest piece of
business, the $20 million-plus Bacardi Import Inc. account
just three weeks ago.
   In a statement, McCaffrey said firings are inevitable, but
that the number hasn't yet been determined. The company
stressed that its remaining billings will be "in the range of
$200 million" and that the agency, which bought itself back
from Saatchi  Saatchi last year, has no bank debt and "ample
cash reserves."
   While the win is good news for Scali, it may dash the
agency's hopes of extricating itself from parent WPP by being
sold to Interpublic Group. Negotiations between WPP and
Interpublic have been continuing, but one executive said he
expects those talks to end because Interpublic is a major
agency for Mercedes competitor General Motors. Mr. Sloves,
though, said he believes the win should have no impact on the
talks.
   McCaffrey had created lush, understated campaigns for
Mercedes. Yet in ad circles, the amiable Mr. Sloves and his
agency were the sentimental favorites to win the account. Mr.
Sloves, a soft-spoken and popular industry veteran, helped
build Scali into a creative hot shop with clients including
Perdue chicken and Western Union. Industry executives cringed
as they watched his shop spin into a painful downward spiral
beginning in late 1990, when the agency lost the Volvo
account, its largest, under embarrassing circumstances.
   Scali had helped shape Volvo's reputation for safety and
reliability with famous campaigns using the slogan, "A car
you can believe in." But in November 1990, word got out that
a Volvo commercial called "Bigfoot" had been faked. In the
spot, a souped-up pickup truck drives over a row of cars and
crushes all but the Volvo -- but it turned out the Volvo had
been reinforced with wood and steel, while the supports on
some of the other cars had been cut.
   A humiliated Scali resigned the account shortly after. It
later settled Federal Trade Commission charges by paying
$150,000, though it didn't admit violating any law.
   At Mercedes, Michael Jackson, executive vice president in
charge of marketing and sales, says the infamous Bigfoot
incident wasn't an issue in the review. "We had absolute
faith and confidence in the integrity of the agency and in
Marvin Sloves," he says. "They wouldn't have been in the
competition if we didn't."
   Scali's decision to bring the Martin Agency into the pitch
apparently helped win the account. According to Mr. Jackson,
Scali won the business not just because of its strong
creative presentation, but also because of Martin's regional
and local advertising expertise.
   Though a new campaign won't emerge for another three
months or so, one industry executive said it will stress how
Mercedes is "worth every penny" of its expensive sticker
price. That's a crucial message at a time when Mercedes sales
are plunging even as its price on some models has soared to
$125,000.
   The losing agencies, meanwhile, all vowed to chase after
other car accounts -- even though virtually none are
officially up for review right now. As William Luceno,
chairman of Ally  Gargano, put it: "The knowledge we gained
on Mercedes won't be lost. I'm hot on the trail of a couple
of others."
   ---
   MasterCard Review
                                                                                                       

   MasterCard International put its $60 million U.S. account
up for review, confirming rampant industry speculation and
handing a major setback to its ad agency, Interpublic Group's
Lintas.
   MasterCard said it decided on the review because its
competition has gotten more aggressive and it needs "to
broaden the creative options available to us." Its
announcement comes barely a week after Lintas denied rumors
of the review in an internal memo. MasterCard's U.S.
president, Peter S.P. Dimsey, "confirmed that no review is
planned at this time," Lintas's New York chairman, Tony
Miller, said in the memo, which was widely circulated. The
memo was in response to an Adweek article predicting the
review.
   Lintas, which in 1988 created the "Master the Moment"
campaign, will be a part of the review, which will be handled
by consultants Morgan Anderson  Co. This is the second
recent review by a card company; American Express dumped
Ogilvy  Mather for Chiat/Day/Mojo last fall.
   Like American Express, MasterCard is expected to ask all
of its agency finalists -- as many as four or five -- to
create finished ads, which it will test in the market before
it chooses a winner. That unusual and expensive demand means
the review will last far longer than most; one executive said
the company is unlikely to tap an agency until late July or
August.
   ---
   Ad Notes. . . .
                                                                                                       

   ACCOUNT: Ferrero U.S.A., the U.S. unit of Italian
confectioner Ferrero Worldwide, tapped New York agency Waring
 LaRosa for an estimated $4 million chocolates account,
including Mon Cheri and Ferrero Rocher. The incumbent,
Omnicom Group.'s Altschiller-Reitzfeld/TracyLocke, continues
to handle Ferrero's Tic Tac mint account.
                                                                                                       

   WHITTLE: Douglas Greenlaw, president of Whittle
Communications's Channel One, said the Knoxville, Tenn.,
media company is negotiating with sneaker-maker Nike Inc. to
sponsor Coaches Channel, a commercial-free spinoff of its
in-school system, Channel One. Mr. Greenlaw said professional
athletes, including basketball player Michael Jordan, are
being courted to appear in the instructional programs for
school team advisers.
                                                                                                       

   SAATCHI STAKE: FMR Corp., Boston, acquired 3.05% of the
ordinary shares of the London agency holding company Saatchi
 Saatchi Co.
                                                                                                       

   SPORTS RATINGS: Omnicom's BBDO is taking on A.C. Nielsen's
sports program ratings with a new service of its own. Called
Sports Freq, the service will provide BBDO clients with
analyses of who watches sports broadcasts how often.
                                                                                                       

   RAY IN RUSSIA: PepsiCo Inc. said its Diet Pepsi ads
featuring singer Ray Charles will be shown for the first time
in Russia and neighboring republics. The spots will be shown
during the Russian broadcast of a retrospective of Mr.
Charles's career, which was first aired in the U.S. in 1991.
Pepsi-Cola International is the sponsor of the show.