International:
   World Wire
   ----
   Compiled by Richard L. Holman
Facsimile users in Europe are being stung by a
sophisticated and elaborate billing scheme, authorities said.
   Every month, thousands of fax customers receive letters in
the mail that resemble local phone or fax bills. Only in the
small print do the invoices explain that payment, usually
about $800, is for a listing in a fax or telex directory.
This isn't illegal in most countries, but the misleading
designs are catching companies and individuals unawares: Many
pay, believing they are settling a valid bill.
   These documents began appearing almost three years ago. In
France, one person was convicted of untruthful advertising
for the practice and received a suspended sentence. Despite
similar crackdowns in other countries, notably Denmark, waves
of the documents are still sweeping the Continent, bearing
postmarks from Czechoslovakia and Liechtenstein, for example.
   France, which received hundreds of complaints, has begun a
fraud investigation and plans to pursue the case with
Liechtenstein, which decided after its own inquiry that
little could be done. Britain is compiling complaints.
                                                                                                       

   EC MAY SPEED UP OZONE PLAN
                                                                                                       

   The European Community accelerated plans to eliminate
products that damage the Earth's ozone layer. After a study
concluded a hole could develop in the protective shield of
ozone above Europe, the EC proposed reducing
chlorofluorocarbons and other ozone-depleting products 85% by
the end of 1993 and eliminating them by 1995, or 18 months
sooner than the EC's initial target and four years earlier
than an international accord's deadline. EC environment
officials are expected to approve the plan this month.
                                                                                                       

   UKRAINE CLEARS PRIVATIZATIONS
                                                                                                       

   The Ukrainian Parliament passed the republic's first
privatization legislation, opening the way for workers to buy
state-owned factories and businesses. The measure gives
workers priority in buying large enterprises. Two other bills
in the privatization package cover small business, and
special bonds or certificates to be issued to all Ukrainians
for individual or pooled bidding on property at auction.
                                                                                                       

   BULGARIA RESTRICTS BANK JOBS
                                                                                                       

   Bulgaria's Parliament passed a banking and credit bill
that bans former high-ranking Communists and security police
from top banking jobs for the next five years. It marked the
first time a measure aimed at the former elite of the
one-time Soviet ally was approved. Sofia's governing
coalition, the Union of Democratic Forces, pushed the bill
through despite protests from the Socialists, the former
Communists. The legislation affects officials and informants
of the Communist-era security service and people who worked
in the central and regional bodies of the Communist Party and
its agencies in the past 15 years.
                                                                                                       

   MACAO LOGS A TRADE DEFICIT
                                                                                                       

   Macao, the Portuguese colony near Hong Kong, recorded its
first trade deficit in a decade. On a 2.3% drop in exports
and 20% jump in imports, the 1991 trade gap totaled 1.5
billion pataca ($187.1 million), compared with a year-earlier
surplus of 1.1 billion pataca. Europe remained the enclave's
largest export market, accounting for 38% of goods shipped,
while exports to the U.S. represented 32%.
                                                                                                       

   IMF LOAN TO ARGENTINA URGED
                                                                                                       

   The International Monetary Fund's chief recommended
lending Argentina $3.6 billion to finance its entry into the
U.S.-sponsored Brady plan for foreign debt reduction. IMF
approval appears certain. Argentina owes $31 billion to
foreign commercial banks. It has proposed renegotiating that
debt, on which it is paying a token $60 million a month.
                                                                                                       

   HONG KONG SEEKS TAX BOOSTS
                                                                                                       

   Anticipating large government outlays for social welfare
and public-works projects, Hong Kong proposed to increase
corporate and property taxes this year to boost the colony's
fiscal reserves.
   The government seeks a 19% increase in public spending to
115.1 billion Hong Kong dollars (US$14.8 billion) in the year
ending March 31, 1993. The corporate tax rate would rise to
17.5% from 16.5% and the property levy to 6% from 5.5%, among
several other increases.
   The budget measures, after drops in revenue from tax
concessions, would produce a net gain of HK$1.1 billion. Add
to that the expected HK$5.1 billion surplus and HK$2.4
billion from government bond sales, and reserves would rise
to about HK$98.2 billion by March 1993.
   Government spending as a percentage of gross domestic
product has increased from a low of about 13% in the 1970s to
17.8% in fiscal 1992. The trend is expected to continue,
rising to 18.8% next year and subsequently to a record 19.5%.
Analysts said Hong Kong is determined to have sufficient
funds to complete billions of dollars of infrastructure
projects, such as a new airport, before sovereignty switches
to China in five years.
                                                                                                       

   POSTSCRIPTS . . .
                                                                                                       

   Britain's state rail network began offering compensation
to inconvenienced passengers. Vouchers will be given for
future travel if train trips are canceled or late by more
than one hour. Delays caused by terrorists aren't covered. .
. . The daily newspaper Pravda, the former Soviet Communist
Party's mouthpiece, has cut back to three issues a week
because of rising newsprint costs, appealed for reader
donations and, its funds dwindling, could close by next
month.