International:
   EC Officials Say U.S. Offer in Dispute
   On Farm Aid Could Revive Trade Talks
   ----
   By Mark M. Nelson and Julie Wolf
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
Many equally difficult problems remain, but at least one
key issue in the subsidies controversy inched toward
resolution. Though details are sketchy, European officials
said the U.S. for the first time appeared to accept that the
EC was indeed making a good-faith effort to scale down its
expensive agricultural policy. The EC could thus be allowed
to compensate its farmers temporarily for the sacrifices they
would have to make under the new GATT rules, making the
process more politically acceptable in Europe.
   The minor advance revived hope that the Uruguay Round
could still survive. "At least they're still talking," said a
senior trade official in Geneva. "The latest news is mainly
important because they haven't given up."
   But in Washington, a senior U.S. trade official said he
didn't see any significant improvement in the U.S.-E.C.
dispute over GATT. "There's no breakthrough, or suggestion of
progress," he said.
   Despite the trade talks' promise of greater world economic
growth and increased employment, U.S. and EC officials had
been pessimistic that negotiations could be concluded this
year because of elections in the U.S., Britain, France and
elsewhere. In such an environment, powerful interest groups,
including European farmers and U.S. textile workers, have
made progress politically difficult.
   The EC's agriculture commissioner, Ray MacSharry, said
there was "some movement" in the GATT talks, but warned
against over-optimism. He noted "some progress in some areas"
but said major difficulties remain.
   The EC has contended that the only way it could meet the
demands of the U.S. and other food-exporting nations to slash
Europe's entrenched farm-export subsidies and production
incentives was to replace them with direct payments to
encourage farmers to take land out of production. Until now,
however, the U.S. and GATT's director-general, Arthur Dunkel,
have called for such direct payments to be subject to the
same steep cuts to be applied to most other farm subsidies.
   People close to the talks said the U.S. compromise, first
made last week in a letter from President Bush to EC
Commission President Jacques Delors, would allow a special
category of subsidies to be treated in a more lenient way.
Negotiators are still working out details of how this could
be done.
   But EC officials cautioned that other key sticking points
in the GATT farm negotiations that are unresolved include the
EC demand that it be allowed to raise tariffs on cereal
substitutes in exchange for lowering duties on other
products, and U.S. demands for big reductions in EC farm
exports.
   Some EC officials expressed irritation at Mr. Baker's
characterization of the U.S. offer as "generous," saying the
U.S. was exaggerating the importance of its proposals and
trying to shift any blame for a continued GATT deadlock on to
the EC.