International:
   World Wire
   ----
   Compiled by Richard L. Holman
European Community finance ministers agreed on the broad
outlines of legislation limiting how much banks can lend to a
single creditor. The measure is aimed at completing the EC's
single market in banking, and protecting banks from
overextending themselves.
   The so-called large exposures directive would prevent
banks from lending more than 25% of their equity to one party
or group. Banks would have to report to national regulators
any loan exceeding 10% of equity. The 25% limit had been
opposed as too low by several EC countries, including France
and Italy, but ministers agreed to make the measure effective
in phases over eight years beginning in 1994.
   The officials backed a compromise under which bank loans
or credit lines after 1994 to individuals would be limited to
40% of equity. After 1999, new loans would be kept at 25%,
though loans outstanding at as much as 40% of equity could
run three more years. Less-restrictive rules would apply to
interbank lending.
   The legislation would bring the EC in line with rules in
the U.S. and Japan.
                                                                                                       

   CHINA TO DROP AN IMPORT LEVY
                                                                                                       

   China will eliminate on April 1 a special import duty on
18 products, imposed in 1985 to aid local manufacturers. The
ordinary tax on imported goods isn't affected; thus, the
total levy will fall to 61.5% from 90.1% on most of the goods
subject to the special duty, including cars, video cameras,
synthetic fiber, computers, integrated circuits and
television projectors. Washington has increasingly pressured
Beijing to ease trade barriers. The U.S. Senate may vote this
week on overriding President Bush's veto of a bill to place
harsher conditions on renewing China's favored trade status.
                                                                                                       

   FRANCE UNVEILS SAVINGS PLAN
                                                                                                       

   French Economics Minister Pierre Beregovoy has proposed an
equities savings plan calling for tax benefits on accounts
held at least eight years. The proposal is intended to help
boost investments in stocks in Paris and other French
markets. Mr. Beregovoy told a French newspaper his plan,
which he will seek to present to the National Assembly in the
spring, would allow tax-free capital gains. Withdrawals from
the accounts after eight years would be unrestricted.
                                                                                                       

   JAPAN, U.S. COOPERATE ON LOANS
                                                                                                       

   Japan and the U.S. unveiled $1 billion of cooperative
financing for five projects in developing countries, aimed at
boosting their imports. The development projects in
Indonesia, the Philippines, Thailand, Chile and Venezuela
resulted from an agreement signed last May and expanded
during President Bush's visit to Japan in January. The
cofinanced projects, primarily in the power sector, are to
help spur local economic growth and are expected to result in
impports of about $430 million from the U.S. and $270 million
from Japan, mainly building supplies and equipment.
                                                                                                       

   GREECE OFFERS CLEAN-AIR CARROT
                                                                                                       

   In an attempt to curb chronic air pollution in Athens,
Greece proposed legislation with incentives for use of
vehicles that produce fewer emissions. Some taxes would be
reduced as much as 65% for replacing older vehicles,
including taxis, with those that have catalytic converters,
allowing use of lead-free gasoline. The newer vehicles also
would be exempt from license-plate taxes and road-use fees
for five years. Of the estimated 1.5 million motor vehicles
in the mountain-ringed Greek capital, only about 300,000 have
catalytic converters.
                                                                                                       

   SOUTH KOREA'S CAPITAL ATTRACTION
                                                                                                       

   Foreign investment in South Korea amounted to 41 projects
in this year's first two months, off 16% from a year earlier,
but their total value soared 94% to $230 million. Of that,
the manufacturing sector accounted for $189 million, more
than double the year-earlier sum, and the service sector $41
million, up 40%. The U.S. topped the investor list with $100
million, triple that of a year earlier, while investments
from Japan fell 21% to $55 million.
                                                                                                       

   MANILA CLEARS TRADE ZONE
                                                                                                       

   Philippine President Corazon Aquino signed into law a
measure designating Subic Naval Base and adjacent areas a
duty-free zone. But she rejected rules on appointing
officials to run the zone.
   The conversion legislation requires that the first
administrator of the new Subic Metropolitan Authority be the
mayor of adjacent Olongapo City. This, Mrs. Aquino maintains,
violates a constitutional ban on elected officials
simultaneously holding executive appointments. She also
deemed unconstitutional the rule that her nominees for zone
positions be confirmed by the government appointments
commission.
   Mrs. Aquino said she would appoint officials to head the
zone after the law goes into effect early next month.
   Companies interested in leasing parts of the base complain
that confusion about who is in charge of the zone, which will
be larger than Singapore, has made it difficult to proceed
with their business proposals.
                                                                                                       

   POSTSCRIPTS . . .
                                                                                                       

   South Korea's first scientific research satellite is to be
launched July 23 in French Guyana by Arianespace, a European
consortium. . . . Lebanon has invited firms to bid by July to
explore for oil and natural gas, the first such call since
1975, when the country's 15-year civil war broke out. . . .
Canadians who regularly smoke fell to 26% of adults last year
from 41% in 1966, a government study found. Only 10% were
heavy drinkers -- at least 14 drinks a week. -- previous
comparison not supplied A third were physically "very active"
last year, up from 27% in 1985, but those who were overweight
rose to 23% from 17%.