LEISURE & ARTS:
   Calls of the Wild
   ----
   By Michael Pearce
At the sound of a deep, raspy, piglike grunt, he raised
his head to full attention. The next note turned the
whitetail and brought him trotting toward the source of the
sounds 100 yards away. Depending on the caller's sex, the
buck was prepared for lust or loathing at first sight.
   He stopped near the base of a big oak, lowered his
eight-point crown and sparred with a small sapling as he
waited to see the deer that would never appear. Straight
above, halfway up the tree, Brad Harris stood statue-still on
a tiny platform, bow in one hand and the tube that had made
the deer calls in the other. Dressed from head to toe in the
browns, greens and black of "real tree" camouflage, Mr.
Harris was all but indistinguishable from the bark of the old
oak.
   Though years of practice would have allowed him to take
the buck humanely, Mr. Harris never drew the string. An
accomplished whitetail hunter, Mr. Harris opted to prolong
his hunting season and wait for a bigger buck. The whitetail
eventually walked back down the ridge and faded from sight.
The smile on Mr. Harris's face, however, lasted for hours.
It's a type of smile that's becoming more and more common
across America's whitetail woods.
   "The art of calling deer is probably centuries old. No
doubt Native Americans used a variety of sounds to attract
deer. A few hunters have been rattling antlers together to
call bucks into gun, bow and camera range for years," said
Mr. Harris, head of product development for Lohman Game
Calls. "But the sport has really taken off in the past
several years. It's grown from virtual obscurity to a
full-fledged craze in a half-decade."
   Though he's too humble to admit it, Mr. Harris is the
patriarch of a fraternity that now numbers in the hundreds of
thousands. "I first heard about calling whitetails from a
good bow hunter named Jim Manion in Missouri in the late
1970s," he said. "He was copying a sound he had heard deer
make and the bucks would come right in. He taught me how to
make the noise, and the first time I tried it a six-pointer
turned and came right in."
   Mr. Harris continued to test and modify his calling
techniques. In 1984, with the help of Mr. Harris and noted
outdoor writer Monte Burch, Lohman began marketing an
easy-to-use grunt call.
   Though effective, the plastic tube wasn't instantly
accepted. "I can remember talking about the grunt tube at
seminars and actually having people laughing out loud," said
Mr. Harris. "Finally some writers and other call companies
got behind the concept and it took hold. It's widely accepted
now. Each year more and more people try it for the first
time. Usually they learn something."
   One thing sportsmen have learned is that a species they'd
long believed to be mute can emit and respond to certain
sounds. "No doubt deer were grunting all along, people just
didn't know what the sound meant or what was making it until
they started hearing about grunt calls," said Jody Hugill,
Pennsylvania deer calling champion. "Both bucks and does
grunt softly under a variety of circumstances. Sometimes it's
when they're excited, like a buck during rut {breeding
season}. Other times it's when they're content and just
trying to locate each other. They only make grunts
occasionally at best, but they will respond to those sounds
more often than not."
   According to Mr. Hugill, who's successfully used deer
calls 12 months of the year, responses range from simply
stopping and looking in the direction of the sound to a
flat-out charge. "But normally," he said, "if they hear it
they'll simply wander in for a closer look."
   Yet both Messrs. Harris and Hugill are quick to note that
deer calling isn't as easy as whistling a dog across the
lawn. "Anytime you're dealing with wildlife, whether it be
hunting, photographing or pleasure viewing, it's a
challenge," said Mr. Harris. "First of all, you have to scout
out a place that has them. No deer call is going to call
whitetails where there aren't any. You have to be able to set
up someplace where they'll pass fairly close by. The sound of
a call doesn't carry all that far."
   There are also the important considerations of camouflage
and scent. "Whitetails have good eyesight. If they see you or
even see movement they're going to spook," said Mr. Harris.
"There's also their phenomenal sense of smell. No matter how
excited they may be at the sound of a call, if they catch
your scent in the wind they're gone]"
   But those who use the deer calls say the added challenge
makes success so much sweeter. Many seek additional thrills
by pulling in other species as well. Unlike in years past,
that means more than just the traditional ducks, geese and
turkeys. Lohman, the world's leading game call company,
currently markets dozens of calls for creatures ranging from
diminutive doves and squirrels to mammoth moose and majestic
bull elk.
   Calls are available at Wal-Mart stores around the country
and at most sporting goods stores that carry hunting
equipment. They can be ordered by mail from suppliers such as
Bass Pro Shops, 1935 South Campbell, Springfield, Mo. 65898;
and Cabela's, 812 13th Avenue, Sidney, Neb. 69160.
   ---
   Mr. Pearce is a free-lance outdoors writer based in
Manhattan, Kan.