International:
   Gum Chewers Now
   Are Stuck as Ban
   Begins in Singapore
   ---
   An Antiseptic Society Turns
   Positively Compulsive
   In Battle Against the Wad
   ----
   By Steven E. Levingston
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Not quite. Under the new regulations, chewing gum
importers face a fine of as much as 10,000 Singapore dollars
(US$6,171) and a year in jail. Retailers who handle bootleg
bubble gum could be forced to cough up S$2,000.
   Oddly, the act of chewing gum constitutes no offense. But
stocking up outside the country may prove troublesome.
Henceforth, customs officials will require that everyone
entering the country declare chewing gum. But officials
promise not to call out the sniffing dogs. A few sticks are
permissible, a few packets excessive.
   In announcing the ban, the Environment Ministry cited two
incidents last year year when pranksters smeared wads of gum
on the doors of subway cars. The globs prevented the doors
from closing properly, forcing the trains out of service. If
the doors weren't trouble enough, the seats on the system's
60 trains are spotted by some 400 lumps every day.
   The ban has gummed up prospects for the Singapore branch
of Wrigley Co. (HK), which dominates the republic's S$8
million a year industry. "We definitely have to close," says
a Wrigley spokesman in Singapore. "There is no other choice
for us." Wrigley, a unit of Wm. Wrigley Jr. Co. of Chicago,
makes chewing gum in the Philippines and distributes
elsewhere in Asia.
   Cleanup crews, on the other hand, have no complaints. Soh
Chin Fui, general manager of A&P Maintenance Services Pte.,
says the ban will reduce costs for manpower and chemicals to
dislodge the sticky blobs. "It will save us time having to
clean all that mess," he says.
   Many Singaporeans view the government's move as unwelcome
meddling in their lives. "Singaporeans will never learn to
handle things responsibly if the government intervenes on
every issue it thinks is socially undesirable," Tan Ah Beng,
a 30-year-old engineer, told the Singapore Straits Times.
   Just how offensive gum-chewing is to government officials
was revealed in remarks by S. Dhanabalan, the minister of
national development. When Singapore began studying
chewing-gum pollution in 1983, Mr. Dhanabalan, then minister
of culture and foreign affairs, said, "I personally consider
it rather obnoxious, seeing very good-looking young boys and
girls wandering about with their jaws moving like cows
chewing cud. If those who chew gum did only that, it is all
right. But when they start sticking gum under chairs, on
walls or dropping it on the floor, then it becomes a social
problem."