Industry Focus:
   Streamlining Wave Is Sweeping Insurance Companies
   ---
   Widespread Staff Cuts Are Planned
   As Industry Braces for Consolidation
   ----
   By Albert R. Karr and Susan Pulliam
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
Many insurance companies say they are aiming ultimately
for leaner, less costly staffs that also will give faster,
surer service to customers. But for now, the main goal is
simply to reduce costs and improve profitability in an
industry where many companies have severe financial problems
and where consolidations are occurring.
   Insurance industry employment hit a record high of
2,139,000 in June 1991, but slipped to 2,111,000 by January,
Bureau of Labor Statistics figures show. This year, the
reductions will be widespread, according to a survey of large
insurance firms for The Wall Street Journal by consultant
William M. Mercer Inc. At least eight of the 17 polled
insurers will cut staffs in 1992, one to a "significantly"
lower level and another by as much as 10%; six will cut
staffs by as much as 2%. Those insurers are seeking to reduce
costs, partly by reducing middle-management positions, Mercer
says.
   Another four polled firms wouldn't participate in the
Mercer survey, two said they will hold staffs level, and
three said they will make modest additions.
   Lincoln National Corp.'s Lincoln National Life Insurance
Co. unit, Fort Wayne, Ind., expects to pare its staff of
16,500 by as much as 20% in the next 18 months, by selling
its managed-care health business, a spokesman says. The
buyers of the managed-care units say they will hire some of
the 3,100 affected employees. Lincoln National is trying to
find jobs for some of the rest.
   Home Life Insurance Co., New York, plans to slash its
staff 50% this year, because it's merging with Phoenix Mutual
Life Insurance Co., Hartford, Conn. Phoenix Mutual may be
making some additional cuts of its own.
   Aetna Life  Casualty Co. is trimming 2,600 positions
under a restructuring plan put in place in late 1990. Its
biggest cuts are coming as it withdraws from the auto
insurance business in about 25 states. Prudential Insurance
Co. of America, the nation's largest insurance company,
expects to offer about 1,000 employees, or 1% of its U.S.
staff, voluntary separation packages this year, after
reducing its work force by 2,300 employees last year. It's
striving especially to trim group health-insurance costs.
   "You've got to be efficient to compete" in the health
insurance market, where costs are climbing and employers are
moving to insure employees on their own, a Prudential
spokesman says.
   In coming years, there will be fewer, bigger insurance
companies, which, because of economies of scale and
technology, "will be able to get more done with less people,"
says Mr. Leshner. Many medium-sized and small firms are
"living on the edge" and will sell blocks of business to
larger ones, he adds.
   Having seen the adverse public reaction to employee
dismissals announced in other industries and by insurers such
as Aetna, insurance companies want to rely on attrition to
reduce staffing as much as they can. "But not enough
employees are leaving," Mercer says.
   In a further attempt at avoiding dismissals, more insurers
will offer early-retirement packages. One firm, for example,
plans to offer an early-out plan to 275 people, hoping 40%
will accept. It will let employees retire with full benefits
at age 55, with 20 years at the firm, instead of the usual
cutoffs -- 60 years of age and 30 years of experience.
   "Some companies have been overwhelmed by the number of
people that leave, and others have been shocked that no one
wants to go," according to Mr. Leshner.
   In any event, William Morin, president of Drake Beam
Morin, which places dismissed executives in new jobs, says
insurance companies are starting to inquire more about his
firm's services as they anticipate cutting loose many people.
   Some insurance firms that have reduced their forces in the
past -- such as Transamerica Corp., San Francisco, and
Fireman's Fund Corp., Novato, Calif. -- plan to hold steady
now.
   Massachusetts Mutual Life Insurance Co. has had a hiring
freeze since early last year. While the company doesn't
currently have plans for dismissals, Eustis Walcott, a vice
president, says, "We are constantly reassessing our staffing
needs. . . . I don't know of any insurance company that could
completely rule out layoffs."
   John Hancock Mutual Life Insurance Co. cut 400 jobs last
year; it imposed a hiring freeze last spring and probably
will continue it for the rest of 1992, says spokesman Ralph
Brunner.
   Meanwhile, the composition of insurance-company work
forces is changing.
   New York Life Insurance Co. will add 50 employees to do
pension work, but plans to eliminate as many as 100
life-insurance positions by attrition. Metropolitan Life
Insurance Co. will trim about 1,000 positions through
voluntary separations, while adding about the same number in
its computer centers. Northwestern Mutual Life Insurance Co.,
Milwaukee, will add from 50 to 100 employees this year, after
hiring about that number in 1991, mostly in computer and
customer-service operations.
   With more employers becoming self-insurers for health
care, health-insurance firms are starting to reduce actuarial
staffs and are adding nurses and others who can advise
employers on health matters, Hay's Mr. Leshner says.
   Insurance firms see advantages for consumers by automating
to narrow the need for clerical workers and by putting a
premium on high-performance employees who can use computers.
"We will end up with an industry that the public will think
better of, but will require less people," Mr. Leshner
predicts.
   So far, however, consumer groups aren't impressed.
Insurance costs aren't declining as insurers cut employees,
says a spokeswoman for Citizens Action, a group of 38 state
organizations that work on insurance issues. "It's a
lose-lose situation," for workers and insurance buyers alike,
she says.
   ---
   Barbara Glickler contributed to this article.
   ---
              Employment at the Top Companies
                                                                                                       

                Company work forces in 1991
                                                                                                       

   COMPANY                                     EMPLOYMENT
                                                                                                       

   Prudential Insurance Co. of America             75,000
   Metropolitan Life Insurance Co.                 43,000
   Aetna Life  Casualty Co.                       47,000
   Equitable Life Assurance Society of the U.S.    12,277

   The Travelers Corp.                             33,558
   New York Life Insurance Co.                      8,047
   Teachers Insurance  Annuity Co.                 3,800
   John Hancock Mutual Life Insurance Co.          16,500
   American General Corp.                          12,000
                                                                                                       

   Sources: American Council of Life Insurance; individual
companies