International:
   Yeltsin to Head
   Defense Agency
   Set Up in Russia
   ---
   Move, Seen as Initial Step
   Toward Separate Army,
   Likely to Weaken C.I.S.
   ----
   By Adi Ignatius
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Russia still supports a joint military force under the
Commonwealth's command, Mr. Shakhrai said. But by creating
its own defense ministry, Russia seems to be positioning
itself to provide for its own security needs if and when the
Commonwealth finally collapses. The decree "doesn't mean that
Russian armed forces have been formed," Mr. Shakhrai said.
"Although, virtually, they already exist."
   At least five other republics -- Ukraine, Azerbaijan,
Uzbekistan, Belarus and Moldova -- have declared their
intention to maintain their own armed forces. If Russia,
which dominates the three-month-old Commonwealth, decides to
go it alone militarily, the faltering union is all but
finished as a collective security instrument. By forming its
own military, Russia would leave little of military
significance to the rest of the Commonwealth. And yesterday's
move appears to make a political statement as to Russia's own
dwindling faith in the Commonwealth military structure.
   "There seems to be a recognition that there isn't much
logic behind the continuation of a C.I.S. military," said a
Western defense attache, who requested anonymity. "The
military itself is confused now as to whom it takes its
orders from."
   Senior officers of the former Soviet military are likely
to oppose Russia's decision to form its own army, the Western
attache said. Generally, these officers have argued that the
U.S.S.R. military structure must be preserved under the
Commonwealth. But there isn't any sign that the military
plans to take any action to protest the breakup of the former
Soviet force.
   Mr. Yeltsin made no comment on the decree. The Russian
ITAR-Tass news service reported that Mr. Yeltsin returned to
the capital Monday from a brief "working holiday" in the
Georgian resort city of Sochi.
   Russia's announcement comes on the eve of a critical
meeting of Commonwealth leaders scheduled for Friday in Kiev,
the Ukrainian capital. In preliminary talks, Commonwealth
officials have made progress on potentially divisive issues,
including how to share responsibility for the former Soviet
Union's foreign debt. But solutions to disputes over military
matters have proved elusive.
   Ukraine stunned Russia and international observers
Thursday when President Leonid Kravchuk announced that
Ukraine would cease, at least temporarily, transferring
nuclear weapons to Russia for dismantling. Mr. Kravchuk
contended that Russia hasn't been able to guarantee that the
weapons are being disposed of safely.
   Prior to Mr. Kravchuk's announcement, the 11 Commonwealth
members had been able to agree that, while republics could
form conventional armies, they would keep all nuclear weapons
under a single command in Moscow. Russia and Ukraine
officials now are seeking a solution to the latest impasse.
   Ukraine and Russia also have failed to resolve a
long-running dispute over who controls the Black Sea Fleet,
which is based in the Crimea, a Russian-populated enclave in
Ukraine. Marshal Yevgeny Shaposhnikov, who heads the
Commonwealth's joint armed forces, said the fleet "is part of
C.I.S. strategic forces and doesn't belong to any particular
state." Kiev has declared that the fleet, or at least a big
chunk of it, belongs to Ukraine.
   That issue, too, is likely to be debated at the Kiev
meeting, a gathering that some observers in Moscow conjecture
could be the Commonwealth's last.