Politics  Policy -- Campaign '92:
   Democrats Worry They Lack
   A Candidate Who Can Capitalize
   On Bush's Weakness as Campaign
   Heads to Clinton Strongholds
   ----
   By David Shribman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
But the Arkansas governor spent much of the last two weeks
on the defensive, first from charges of marital infidelity
and then from news accounts saying he angled to avoid the
draft during the Vietnam years. He shored up his support
amply enough to finish a strong second in New Hampshire, but
many Democratic party leaders, officeholders and voters --
even in the South -- are unsettled with the notion that he
could head the party's ticket.
   "There are question marks about character all over the
guy," says Earl Black, a University of South Carolina
specialist in southern politics. "They are not going to go
away. He's just building a record that will provide the
Republicans with a lot of ammunition."
   Mr. Clinton's finish in New Hampshire, however, keeps his
prospects alive and propels him toward safe political ground
-- and makes it vastly more difficult for another Democratic
political figure to plunge into the race.
   Last week, House Majority Leader Richard Gephardt was very
close to entering the race; his calculations, according to
those familiar with the Missouri lawmaker's plans, were based
on Mr. Clinton showing so poorly that he was driven out of
the race or written out of it. At the same time, those close
to Sen. Lloyd Bentsen, invoking the same contingencies, were
quietly exploring a plan for the 1988 vice presidential
nominee to jump into the 1992 race with a vow to serve only a
single term, and if elected, to tackle the nation's budget
and economic problems without worries about winning
re-election.
   Although political professionals don't rule out the
possibility of new candidates, Mr. Clinton's strong showing
didn't provide the opening or pretext for either of those
plans or for others circulating in the capital. "The biggest
problem for someone trying to enter the race now is that
there's no cause," says Peter Hart, a Democratic political
pollster. "It would only be personal ambition."
   Yet as filing deadlines for late primaries approach and
pass -- the deadline for entering the Ohio primary on May 5,
for example, is today -- there remains hunger for a late
entrant. "We've kind of outsmarted ourselves by making this
process go so fast," says John White, a former Democratic
national chairman. "Now, we're stuck in a position with a
very vulnerable president, and we can't present the very best
we have. We should try to get some others in this race,
because we can win this."
   Mr. Clinton, meanwhile, is a damaged but attractive
candidate in the wake of a day of balloting where Washington
establishment figures and incumbents did poorly. He displayed
great grit in not succumbing to the charges against him and
in battling back. Moreover, he has deployed an impressive
national campaign, and he clearly plans to take maximum
advantage of his southern base and to compete in a three-week
marathon in which 1,325 delegates, or just under a third of
all convention delegates, are selected. House Speaker Thomas
Foley yesterday proclaimed Mr. Clinton the "front-runner at
the moment." He also, mistakenly, referred to Mr. Tsongas as
"Sen. Dukakis."
   "We have to work backwards from the cornerstones --
Georgia and South Carolina -- and then prepare to fight on
all fronts," says George Stephanopoulos, Mr. Clinton's deputy
campaign manager. "We're the only ones who can."
   Mr. Clinton's great advantage, however, is in moving
toward the Southern primaries with an opponent virtually
unknown in the region.
   "I don't know of a single elected official, a single party
player or even a single individual who is for Tsongas," says
James Brady, the Democratic chairman in Louisiana. "People
have never even heard of him."
   Mr. Clinton's campaign infrastructure reaches deep into
these states. In Louisiana, for example, the governor, both
senators, all the Democratic House members, the speaker and
speaker pro tempore of the state House, the president and
president pro tempore of the state Senate, the mayor of New
Orleans and at least 100 other elected officials are with Mr.
Clinton. In Texas, Mr. Clinton has been endorsed by half the
Democratic state legislators, the state arm of the National
Education Association, the steelworkers' and government
workers' unions, and the leaders of the top Mexican-American
and black political groups.
   "For anybody else to do well in Texas," says Robert
Slagle, the state party chairman, "Clinton has to do
something to himself -- something very bizarre."
   Walter Mondale, who lost the New Hampshire primary in 1984
to Gary Hart, bore witness to the fragility of a campaign
based on endorsements from politicians and lawmakers. Indeed,
much of the Clinton support is soft, and some leading
political figures say privately they would abandon his
campaign if a stronger candidate came along.
   Moreover, Mr. Clinton's letter thanking an ROTC official
for "saving me from the draft" has raised questions about him
in the South. "This is very patriotic country, and he has
lost a chance to get a lot of good-ole-boy votes he might
otherwise get," says William Blount, the state party chairman
in Alabama. "But he's still the big favorite."
   Meanwhile, the entire Democratic field faces new
challenges as the campaign moves from one tiny state, where
the candidates campaigned for months, to a series of states,
an adjustment akin to switching in an instant from a
half-court basketball game to a full-court, full-speed game.
   "That means they have to really broaden their messages,"
says John Sasso, a Democratic consultant who plotted Michael
Dukakis's route to the nomination four years ago. "They have
to go from retail politics to wholesale politics. They have
to sharpen their themes and make the case for change; people
in these later states aren't going to be reading 75-page
booklets on the issues like they did in New Hampshire."
   That challenge is greatest for Mr. Tsongas. In Maine's
caucuses this weekend, though Mr. Clinton has a strong base,
Mr. Tsongas can again play the regional favorite. "New
Hampshire historically has a big influence on us," says
Frederick Barton, a former state party chairman in Maine.
"We've been watching the same news and seeing the same ads as
they've been seeing. It leads us to conclude that the result
will be similar."
   But to dismiss qualms that he has little appeal beyond New
England, Mr. Tsongas then will need a strong showing in the
March 3 primary in Maryland, a state where Mr. Clinton's
southern tentacles aren't as strong.
   As Mr. Tsongas struggles to reap the momentum from his New
Hampshire victory, the remaining Democratic candidates are
seeking opportunities to show that their campaigns still have
promise. Both Sen. Tom Harkin of Iowa and Sen. Bob Kerrey of
Nebraska have targeted next Tuesday's primary in South
Dakota, hoping that a victory there might help them raise
sufficient money to carry the fight forward.
   Mr. Kerrey hopes to pre-empt the other candidates in
Colorado, which holds its primary March 3, to ambush Mr.
Clinton the same day in Georgia and to nudge along by winning
caucuses in small states such as Utah, Idaho and Wyoming.
Both he and Mr. Harkin need victories to keep their campaigns
alive, but the chances are that at least one of the two will
soon be eliminated from the race.
   Although the write-in effort for Gov. Mario Cuomo fizzled
in New Hampshire and is likely to do so in Maine, the shadow
of the New York governor remains over the contest. Those
close to him have mapped out a plan they would invoke if Mr.
Kerrey withdrew from the race. Under this plan, according to
those who have discussed it with Cuomo associates, the
governor and Mr. Kerrey would become a team, with Mr. Kerrey,
as vice presidential candidate, campaigning during the week
and Mr. Cuomo leaving Albany only on weekends. They would ask
their supporters to vote for delegate slates that are already
assembled in Mr. Kerrey's name. The Kerrey camp, for its
part, disclaims interest in such a scheme.
   But the longer the campaign goes on and the better Mr.
Clinton does, the better, too, are the chances that the
Arkansas governor will become the party nominee.
   With the proportional representation rules that the
Democrats are using, it becomes hard for a challenger to
defeat a front-runner with margins large enough to prevent
him from continuing to add delegates to his count. "You don't
have the opportunity to go to Illinois any more and take 80%
of the delegates with 50% of the votes," says Anthony
Corrado, a Colby College political scientist and rules expert
working for Mr. Kerrey's campaign.
   If Mr. Clinton can reach 40% of the delegates as the end
of the primaries approaches, the structure of the rules, plus
the hope of party leaders to bring the contest to a swift
conclusion, almost certainly would deliver the nomination to
him.