Guys Holding Axes and Chainsaws
   Get to Use Any Name They Like
   ----
   By Ron Suskind
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Say that, and you might get chopped off at the knees.
Certified Logging Professional, CLP for short, is now the
preferred term.
   The pristine woods of Maine have been struck by rampant
credentialism.
   A program started last year by Maine forest-products
groups and logging interests transplants woodsmen into a
classroom for four days of intensive lectures on such issues
as the environment, workplace safety, productivity and
handling a balance sheet. Graduates can put CLP on their
business cards, or carve it on a stump.
   "For some, it's a bit of stretch," says Scott Hanington, a
logger from Kingman who won his CLP last year. "One guy was
asked the difference between fixed and variable costs. He
said, `A fixed cost? If it's broke, I fix it and it costs
me.'"
   About 150 loggers hit the books last spring (mud season,
when cutting slows), and more than twice as many are due to
be schooled in the next few months. Before certificates are
handed out, inspectors make surprise visits to the woods,
surveying graduates' work and checking that cutting is done
safely.
   Logging, in fact, is among the most dangerous of
endeavors, with worker's compensation rates in Maine running
about $37 for every $100 in salary (that compares with about
$12 for carpenters). Loggers can cut that rate 10% by
becoming CLPs.
   "I'd like to go back 20 years if I could, when things
weren't so complicated," says Chris Krukowski, a 36-year-old
logger who hasn't taken the course but notes it's now
required by the companies he cuts for. "You can't do anything
without a credential these days, even cut trees."
   Then again, most loggers are no longer "what folks
perceive as heathen types, who ride around drinking beer and
shooting rats at the dump," says Mike St. Peter, a
logger-safety advocate. "Most don't live in logging camps
anymore. They're family men who commute to the woods."
   But professionalism has its costs. The program, which cost
$425 per CLP last year, will run $500 this year. "Those
upfront costs will get paid back eventually, as any doctor or
lawyer can tell you," says Mr. Hanington. "Look, higher
education will cost you."