International:
   Collapse of a Soviet Bank Spawns
   Innovative Debt Market in Russia
   ----
   By Elisabeth Rubinfien
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Ultimately, these ad hoc moves may pave the way for
Russian government plans to pay back depositors in the former
Soviet Bank for Foreign Economic Affairs with bonds or other
investment paper in lieu of cash.
   Commercial banks' offers range from a straight purchase of
hard-currency debt for hard currency at a commission, to
purchasing debt in exchange for winning new corporate
business, to buying hard-currency debt for rubles.
   "One of the big commercial banks offered for us to sell
our account at a 15% commission," says Mikhail Komissar,
general director of Interfax News Agency, which has about
$70,000 caught in Vneshekonombank. "So far, we have said
`no.'"
   Late last year, Vneshekonombank announced that it had run
out of hard currency, sparking fear that Soviet international
debt wouldn't be repayed. Russian officials tried to allay
that concern, but meanwhile, Vneshekonombank froze the
accounts of its Soviet depositors.
   Exact figures on the amount of convertible currency frozen
in such accounts aren't available, but Russian government
officials have said it comes to well more than several
billion dollars. As with the once-flourishing Western market
in the debt of developing countries, commercial banks
offering to buy these accounts are counting on
Vneshekonombank's ability to someday honor its depositors'
accounts.
   Many commercial banks won't go near the idea because they
consider it too risky. But some of the larger ones are giving
it a try. Says an official at one commercial bank who
declined to be identified, "If Vneshekonombank does honor
these accounts, then these banks make a killing."
   Others feel that, in any case, such arrangements are a
good way to drum up business in a competitive field of
several hundred new commercial banks. Incombank this month
started offering Vneshekonombank clients new accounts in
Incombank, says Igor Kruzhalov, deputy director of the bank's
hard-currency division. In exchange, the client is asked to
buy shares in the bank for as much as 30% of the amount in
the account. "They'll receive dividends starting with Dec. 31
this year."
   Commercial banks that don't have their own hard-currency
reserves to maneuver with may offer to pay rubles
immediately, says Alexei Venieri, manager of the treasury and
foreign-exchange department at Credobank, which doesn't
handle any offers to buy Vneshekonombank debt.
   Desperate clients will even accept such arrangements if
the ruble exchange rate is discounted sharply. For all the
trouble foreign residents have had withdrawing money and for
all the anxiety felt by Western debtors, Russia's and other
republics' businesses are in a real fix.
   Without hard currency, many of them can no longer purchase
parts and materials, or the consumer goods that they
periodically offer their workers. State-owned businesses are
the worst off, because they have been least able to shift
their deposits out of Vneshekonombank in recent years.
   So even when the ruble is now worth little more than the
paper it's printed on (the market rate now is between 100 and
200 rubles per dollar), a sale for rubles may be attractive.
For example, a client could sell his Vneshekonombank debt at
a rate of 100 rubles per dollar and then go to one of the
myriad commodities exchanges and buy goods for convertible
currency at the rate of 200 rubles to the dollar. The client
loses 50% of the value of his hard-currency savings, but "he
had an ephemeral $100,000 and ended up with $50,000 of real
goods," explains Credobank's Mr. Venieri. "I can't say how
much this is happening, because it's all done secretly, but
it's happening."
   Ultimately, the frozen Vneshekonombank accounts could be
the start of a new financial market in the former Soviet
Union. "The Russian government informally announced that it
feels responsible, but can't pay now," Pyotr Aven, head of
Russia's foreign economic relations committee, said last
month. "So either we will issue state bonds, or offer
depositors the chance to become shareholders in the new
commercial bank" that will be formed out of part of
Vneshekonombank's business.
   Bankers expect the government to allow such paper to be
traded, although as the old Soviet system makes way for
something new, regulations are often out of tune with
expectations. In any case, bankers say, the paper will be
traded because it simply makes sense.