Russia Has Lots of Grain -- Just Ask the Army
   ----
   By Richard F. Staar
There are even more compelling reasons to believe that
Russia may be overflowing with grain. The "granaries of the
motherland" -- the state storage facilities -- may hold huge
quantities. According to some calculations, storage capacity
exceeded 240 million metric tons in the early 1970s and
increased to 290 million metric tons by 1981, with a target
of 362 million metric tons by the end of that decade. Most of
that has come from Western imports, about half from the U.S.
A large part is stored in underground shelters designed to
withstand a nuclear blast and fallout. University of North
Carolina economist Steven Rosefielde has asserted that these
supplies could feed the entire population of the former
U.S.S.R. for three years; it may actually be four.
   Then there are special military-related peacetime stocks.
Mr. Silayev revealed the existence of a Centralized Food
Fund. Last year it added almost 14 million metric tons of
grain to a stockpile that is large enough to feed the armed
forces, Moscow and the so-called closed cities -- where
nuclear weapons and their components are manufactured -- in
case of war. There are 87 such closed cities in Russia alone,
each guarded by a regiment of Interior Ministry troops.
   According to the most recent Soviet Military Encyclopedia,
edited by former Chief of Staff Marshal Nikolai V. Ogarkov,
state reserves include -- apart from food -- fuel, materiel,
capital equipment, spare parts, and other supplies to fight
and recover from a war.
   Vitaly V. Shlykov, deputy chairman of the Russian Defense
Council, revealed on American television last fall that the
military-industrial complex also stockpiles enough supplies
to last at least three months. These can be opened only on
orders from the highest authority. Mr. Shlykov was quoted by
the Japanese newspaper Yomiuri Shimbun on Oct. 25 to the
effect that, if all materiel were transferred from such state
reserves to defense plants, industrial production would
increase by 50%. This could mean that the stockpiles of
materiel for the military-industrial base total more than 200
billion rubles, or one-fourth of the current GNP.
   As commander in chief, Mikhail Gorbachev must have known
about these vast expenditures for backup supplies, which had
grown from 4% of annual national income after World War II to
5% or even 6% today. Such huge reserves would have permitted
the Red Army to fight for 90 days in Western Europe and 180
days in China, according to one source.
   The more important question now is whether Boris Yeltsin
has the same access to these stockpiles. In theory, he
should. His decree of Nov. 28, "On Forming a System of RSFSR
State Reserves," transferred operational management over such
facilities and stocks from the former Soviet Union to the
Russian government's jurisdiction. This included all
"territorial administrations, institutions, enterprises,
bases, depots, and safe custody stores, with all material
assets from state and mobilization reserves . . ."
   The existence of these stocks may be the reason why Mr.
Yeltsin seems so certain that Russians will not starve --
provided that grain can be taken away from the
military-industrial complex. He tried to convince the former
Supreme Soviet that this should be done and failed more than
a year ago. Mr. Yeltsin will find it easier to open these
granaries, and thereby demolish a vital part of the war
machine, if the grain actually is needed. Should the West
continue to send food, it will only help the old Soviet
military threat survive the death of the Soviet Union.
   ---
    Mr. Staar, a fellow at the Hoover Institution, served as
U.S. ambassador to the Mutual and Balanced Force Reduction
negotiations in Vienna.