Politics  Policy:
   Voter Disapproval of Bush's Economic Plans
   Is Evident Even Before the Formal Unveiling
   ----
   By David Shribman and John Harwood
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
The survey of 1,502 registered voters, taken between
Friday and Tuesday, shows that 66% of the public, and even a
majority of Republicans, favor the Democratic plan for a
larger tax cut for the middle class than the president is
contemplating and a cut in the capital-gains tax only if it
is accompanied by a tax increase on upper-income Americans.
Only 27% prefer the plan Mr. Bush supports, which includes a
modest middle-class tax cut along with the capital-gains tax
cut.
   In fact, despite a deep public desire for the government
to do something -- almost anything -- to rescue the economy,
voters oppose cutting the capital gains rate by a margin of
48% to 42%.
   The president's plan "will be in for tough going against
more-popular Democratic alternatives," conclude Democratic
pollster Peter Hart and Republican pollster Vince Breglio,
who conducted the survey for the Journal and NBC. "Any time
you add capital gains to any Republican package, that package
is going to go down" in public esteem.
   To be sure, it's possible that Mr. Bush's State of the
Union speech and subsequent lobbying campaign can convince
voters that some proposals that they don't initially warm to,
such as the capital gains cut and other tax breaks for
business, are necessary to revive a flat economy. GOP
consultant Linda DiVall says that if the president can
"define the debate on his terms" -- emphasizing change and
economic growth while overcoming concerns about fairness --
he can still win over voters.
   Rich Bond, an adviser to the Bush/Quayle campaign, adds
that the bright spotlight on the speech offers the president
a chance "to regain control of the agenda" and "begin to
restore the faith of the American people in his ability to
manage the economy."
   But others are more skeptical of the president's chances.
"He's never been particularly good at making public
arguments," says George C. Edwards III of the Center for
Presidential Studies at Texas AM University. "The biggest
thing he's going to get out of this {speech}, if anything, is
the sense that he's got a plan."
   And even some GOP strategists say Mr. Bush would be better
off if he focused his efforts on convincing lawmakers, rather
than voters, that a capital gains cut is needed for growth.
"I don't think you could ever mobilize the American people
behind something called the capital gains tax," says
Republican consultant Eddie Mahe. "They don't think it has
anything to do with them. It sounds awfully suspicious."
   This widespread skepticism of the president's recipe for
economic renewal comes at a critical time in the political
calendar, when Mr. Bush is facing a challenge in his own
party from conservative commentator Patrick Buchanan in New
Hampshire, largely on economic issues, and when 56% of all
voters believe the current recession is severe.
   And Mr. Bush's problems with the public go beyond the
particulars of his economic program. The Journal/NBC poll
also shows that most Americans don't buy his attempts to
blame the Democratic Congress for making matters worse by
blocking his ideas on the economy and other domestic issues.
A 57% majority agrees with the statement that the president
"has not provided leadership" and "is just blaming Democrats
in Congress as an excuse for not doing his job." By contrast,
only 34% say that Mr. Bush is "making a good-faith effort to
deal with the country's economic and domestic problems, but
the Democrats in Congress are playing politics by blocking
his proposals."
   Overall, 57% of the nation's voters think Congress should
pass a tax cut as a way to help stimulate the U.S. economy,
and 48% believe that Congress will pass one. Yet only 18%
think a tax cut will improve the economy very much, and when
asked what the best use for any savings from defense cuts
would be, only 14% choose a tax cut.
   "The key word here is focus," say pollsters Hart and
Breglio. "A tax cut per se doesn't turn people on very much,
but if it's a focused tax cut that helps families, that has
much more appeal."
   Nearly nine out of 10 voters think providing a tax cut for
families with children would be an effective way to improve
the economy; nearly as many believe a $2,000 tax credit for
first-time home buyers would also be effective.
   A 38% plurality says that the main purpose of a tax bill
this year should be to cut middle-class taxes, while 28% say
the main purpose should be to increase taxes for upper-income
earners. Only 15% cite giving tax incentives to businesses
that invest in new equipment, and only 9% cite cutting the
capital-gains tax.
   President Bush doesn't get all the blame for the economy's
current travails. Nearly one voter in three attributes them
to "the normal business cycle," with one voter in five
singling out President Bush for the most blame.
   But the president is clearly suffering politically from
the intense public concern with unemployment. Fifty-three
percent cite it as the nation's No. 1 economic problem; the
second most-cited problem, the deficit, is named by only 16%.
   "Voters' concern with unemployment has directly cost
President Bush votes," say pollsters Hart and Breglio. Among
voters who cite joblessness as the No. 1 problem, the
president runs no better than even against an unnamed
Democratic opponent; among all other voters, Mr. Bush has an
18-point lead.
   In the poll, 58% of voters think joblessness will increase
in the next 12 months; 38% believe that inflation will
increase in the next year. Adding to voters' general economic
unease, 58% believe the banking system isn't sound.
   Nor are voters happy with their household financial
situation. Three in five say their family has been directly
affected by the recession; 39% say that someone in their
household has had his or her income reduced in the past six
months because of a reduction in hours worked, lost overtime,
a salary cut or lost business.
   More than half those interviewed said they have been
cutting down on purchases and spending, with 40% saying they
have been cutting down on savings and other investments, a
substantial increase from the 24% who said they were in May
1990.