Investor Holds
   6.8% of Bally
   Manufacturing
   ----
   By Pauline Yoshihashi
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Mr. Brennan, founder of First Jersey Securities Inc., said
he has not decided whether to ask for a board seat, but said
he is interested in "enhancing all my fellow shareholders'
investments." The filing said Mr. Brennan bought small
amounts of Bally's 10% convertible secured debentures and 6%
convertible debentures, and has invested about $16.8 million
in Bally securities. The filing further said the stake was
for investment purposes, and that Mr. Brennan might invest
further in Bally.
   Mr. Brennan's purchase raises the possibility of a fight
for control of Bally. The company's chairman, Arthur M.
Goldberg, seized control of the ailing company in late 1990
by scooping up a 5.4% stake valued at about $12 million at
the time, and has been working to restructure the debt-laden
concern. The company has sold or spun off assets, and has
agreed to turn over its Nevada casino to bondholders.
   Last week, Mr. Goldberg sold off 850,000 Bally shares,
reducing his holding to a 2.5% stake along with options for
1.3 million shares exercisable at below current market value
over the next few years. Mr. Goldberg said he sold the stake
for estate and other purposes, and both Mr. Goldberg and Mr.
Brennan said the timing of the sale and Mr. Brennan's
purchases was a "coincidence."
   Mr. Goldberg said he "welcomes all shareholders," but
persons close to Bally said management is not likely to
welcome Mr. Brennan to the board solely because of his
investment. Mr. Brennan said he was attracted to the company
by its assets, not because of any personal ties to Bally
management.
   Mr. Brennan is chairman and chief executive officer of
International Thoroughbred Breeders Inc. of East Windsor,
N.J., a race track and breeding concern, and has several
other investments. In the mid-1980s, First Jersey Securities
became embroiled in controversy and eventually settled
allegations of fraud by the Securities and Exchange
Commission without admitting or denying guilt. Mr. Brennan
never was found guilty of any wrongdoing with First Jersey.
   Under New Jersey law, Mr. Brennan must seek approval from
New Jersey casino regulators to hold more than a 5% stake in
Bally, as the company owns two casinos in Atlantic City. Mr.
Brennan said he doesn't see licensing as an issue, as he
holds a race track license and a service license from state
regulators. But state casino regulations are extremely
rigorous and have caused other casino investors to back off
in the past.