LEISURE  ARTS:
   Saving Ankgor Wat, Cambodia's City of Temples
   ----
   By Elizabeth Lu
Built in the early 12th century by King Suryavarman II,
Angkor Wat is the most awe-inspiring monument erected at
Angkor, Cambodia's ancient capital, about 140 miles northwest
of Phnom Penh.
   For centuries, Angkor Wat has been the symbol of Khmer
pride, but it also has suffered serious abuse and neglect.
During the civil war, for example, bored soldiers used the
voluptuous statues of celestial dancing maidens for target
practice. There are inscriptions scratched by late
19th-century European explorers and more recent efforts
spray-painted in Khmer, according to Mr. Englehardt, who is
based in Phnom Penh. The stone is being eaten away by acids
produced by bat droppings and by chemicals spewed into the
air when logging trucks travel a nearby main road. Thick
jungle growth has damaged the monument's foundations.
   The Archaeological Survey of India has been trying since
1985 to reverse the ravages of nature at Angkor Wat. The
Indian team's work, especially its use of chemicals to clean
the stone, has met with mixed reviews. Such criticism
highlights the clash of international opinions in attempts to
rescue the monument.
   Thailand plans to send a team of 14 architects,
archaeologists, conservationists and others to gauge the
condition of the site sometime next month, says Nikom
Musioakama, deputy director general of Thailand's Fine Arts
Department. He says he doesn't know how long the group will
stay, but when it has finished its work, "We will know how
much we can help the Cambodians." With more than 180
Khmerstyle temples in its own northeast, Thailand is in a
good position to advise Cambodia on restoration, says Mr.
Nikom. In part because so much of Cambodia's population
perished during the Khmer Rouge reign, Cambodia now has just
four professionals heading temple restoration work.
   The Indians and Thais have plenty of company in trying to
help the Cambodians. At a Unesco-sponsored colloquium
scheduled for March 24-28 in Phnom Penh, educators from
around the world will discuss how to assist the Department of
Art and Archaeology at the Cambodian University of Fine Arts
in training "the future generations of Cambodians to care for
the site," Mr. Englehardt says.
   Unesco and half a dozen other international agencies,
including the World Monuments Fund, already are providing
financial and technical aid for Angkor Wat and the other
temple complexes in the area. Three of the four Cambodian
political factions that have formed the ruling Supreme
National Council have joined these agencies in roundtable
discussions; the Khmer Rouge leaders have not participated,
but neither have they objected to the proceedings.
   An estimated $1.3 million to $1.5 million is needed in the
next two years just to prevent further deterioration of
Angkor Wat, Mr. Englehardt says, and it is unclear where the
money will come from. Japan and Sweden have helped out with
donations of $335,000 and $150,000 respectively. France
picked up the tab for a recent international roundtable and
paid for the development of a computerized catalog of
Cambodian artifacts and information. Smaller donations have
also come in from individuals, Mr. Englehardt says.
   In comparison with Cambodia's 1,000 or so other temples,
war damage at Angkor Wat is relatively slight, thanks mainly
to its isolation, Mr. Englehardt says. Just before fighting
broke out in 1970, Unesco rescued some of the more valuable
temple treasures by enforcing the 1954 Hague Convention for
the protection of Cultural Property in the Event of Armed
Conflict. Statues were squirreled away in on-site concrete
bunkers or at the National Museum in Phnom Penh for
safekeeping. Some temple statues that were not stored have
turned up in rice fields or along roadsides.
   Now, with the prospect of peaceful elections and a
scheduled military demobilization, experts fear even more
looting if newly discharged, unemployed soldiers steal the
statues and temple art to turn a fast buck in the
international illicit trade in antiquities.
   About a dozen recovered Khmer-style pieces, now kept at
Thailand's National Museum, will be returned when Thailand,
Cambodia and Laos establish formal ties and the latter two
countries officially claim them, Mr. Nikom says. Under a
30-year-old Thai law, shops that want to export ancient art
or antiques must obtain permission from the Fine Arts
Department. The National Museum also periodically inspects
the 180 antique shops in Bangkok for illegal Khmer art,
according to Sivalee Poopetch, National Museum director.
   One way to help Angkor Wat would be to add its temples to
the World Heritage Convention's list of protected cultural
sites. Prince Sihanouk took the first step toward this by
signing the convention in November. Another is to enforce the
international agreement prohibiting illicit traffic of
cultural property. This weekend, Unesco will hold a regional
workshop here in Bangkok on the subject. Cambodia is party to
the agreement, as well as to an international deal to
safeguard artifacts in time of war.
   In the long term, tourism revenues could be the savior of
the temple complex, although tourism is still limited by the
lack of hotels, transportation and tour guides. Nevertheless,
in Bangkok alone, at least half a dozen travel agencies offer
Angkor Wat tours, even though some governments, including
that of the U.S., advise their nationals not to go to
Cambodia. (The U.S. did, however, lift all business
restrictions with Cambodia and its nationals last month.)
   The largest tour operator is Bangkokbased Diethelm Travel,
which began offering Angkor Wat tours in 1979, shortly after
the Khmer Rouge government was ousted. By 1990 Diethelm was
handling 300 Angkor Wat visitors annually. General Manager
Luzi Matzig says he expects 1992 bookings to reach 2,000 or
2,500. Roundtrip to Angkor from Bangkok, all accommodation
and meals included, he says, costs $1,200 for three days and
two nights; $1,450 for five days. An eight-day package that
includes one night in Vientiane, Laos, two nights in Saigon,
two nights in Phnom Penh and one night in Siem Reap costs
$1,900 inclusive.
   More tourists are heading for Angkor Wat mainly because
there are more flights to Cambodia, Mr. Matzig says, but
adds, "Of course, peace helps." Increased air service has
been triggered by the rush of government and international
aid workers rushing to Phnom Penh now that peace appears
near. In addition to commercial flights, there are 16 to 18
Bangkok-Phnom Penh flights a week. It helps that tourists can
now get visas upon arrival in Phnom Penh.
   Tour operators would also like to offer direct
Bangkok-Siem Reap flights in order to make day trips to
Angkor Wat possible, but the Cambodian government is not keen
about the idea because it undoubtedly would reduce the amount
of time, and therefore money, spent by tourists in Cambodia.
As it is, travelers must stay overnight in Phnom Penh on
either side of their stay in Siem Reap, where there are less
than 100 hotel rooms available, Mr. Matzig says.
   "All of this {tourism} is fine," says Mr. Englehardt, "as
long as it doesn't damage the monuments."
   As the world's tourists and diplomats focus international
attention on Cambodia, the future of Angkor Wat remains
precarious. Restoring and protecting the monument remains a
massive project, Mr. Englehardt says: "We have to continue to
save Angkor from now until foreover."
   ---
   Ms. Lu is a Bangkok-based journalist.