New Voice:
   Surprising Illinois Vote
   Lifts Women's Hopes,
   Worries Incumbents
   ---
   Carol Moseley Braun Taps
   Grass-Roots Anger Aimed
   At Men Running Congress
   ---
   Help From Gloria Steinem
   ----
   By Jill Abramson and Alex Kotlowitz
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
A few weeks later, Ms. Braun and Ms. Getzendanner met
again at a Democratic function. Ms. Braun, who is 44 years
old, said she intended to make the race. "Terrific," Ms.
Getzendanner replied. "Then I'll run against Simon," she
said, referring to Paul Simon, the other Illinois Democratic
senator. Although he opposed Mr. Thomas and doesn't face
re-election until 1996, Sen. Simon has been criticized by
some opponents of Justice Thomas for an "ineffectual"
performance on the Judiciary Committee during the hearings.
   Polls at the time of the confirmation hearings found that
most women ultimately sided with Mr. Thomas against Prof.
Hill. Yet among some, the Hill-Thomas hearings have left a
residue of enormous anger. Ms. Braun's unexpected victory
over Sen. Dixon in Tuesday's primary is the first -- but
perhaps not the last -- tangible political result of that
anger.
   Even as the Democratic primary votes were piling up
against Sen. Dixon, a genial politician widely known as "Al
the Pal," Illinois voters also were handing victories to
female candidates in primaries for the state Legislature,
judgeships and a number of other Chicago county and city
posts. In fact, in 26 Cook County judicial races in which
women ran, they won 20. The women candidates had agreed not
to run against one another, according to a report in the
Chicago Sun-Times.
   Elsewhere around the country, Ms. Braun's success has fed
the hopes of other women running for office this year. "This
is very good news," says William Carrick, a consultant to
Dianne Feinstein, the former San Francisco mayor who is
seeking the Democratic nomination for a U.S. Senate seat in
California.
   "It's extraordinary," says Jane Danowitz, the executive
director of the Women's Campaign Fund in Washington, which
was one of several women's political organizations that
contributed money and other support to Ms. Braun. "Even we
didn't think the Hill-Thomas hearings would have such a long
afterlife."
   Although Ms. Danowitz's organization gave Ms. Braun $2,000
last fall and just sent off another check for $5,000, other
women's organizations kept their wallets shut or gave only
token contributions because they viewed Ms. Braun's candidacy
as quixotic. "This is the kind of race that makes me think
I've been in Washington too long," Ms. Danowitz confesses.
   Ms. Braun didn't simply tap into the anger over the
Hill-Thomas case. She broadened her appeal beyond gender
lines by portraying the Senate as an elitist club that, she
says, "is no longer representative of the people." Thus, she
also was able to tap the sentiments of voters whose
anti-Washington mood has been stoked by the House
check-bouncing scandal.
   For much of the campaign, Ms. Braun was all but ignored as
two better-financed men who were running -- Sen. Dixon and
attorney Alfred Hofeld -- traded fusillades. "She stuck to a
positive message and let the two white males chew each other
up," says Harriett Woods, president of the National Women's
Political Caucus, which supported Ms. Braun. Ms. Braun won
38% of the primary vote to 35% for Sen. Dixon, with Mr.
Hofeld far behind.
   Ms. Getzendanner, who has long known Ms. Braun through a
professional women's organization called the Chicago Network,
says the campaign began gaining momentum several weeks ago
when the feminist writer Gloria Steinem played host to a
reception for Ms. Braun. For the first time, serious money
was raised.
   Ms. Steinem returned to Chicago last weekend to work for
Ms. Braun, whose campaign had been plagued by organizational
problems and lack of money. It wasn't until the last week of
the campaign that she had sufficient funds to run television
ads. By then, although polls still showed her trailing, "our
hearts were really beating," says Ms. Getzendanner.
   Her victory reflected a coalition of inner-city blacks and
upper-income suburbanites. And her presence on the fall
ballot may prove good news for the Democratic presidential
nominee, assuring a big November turnout of black and women
voters in an important state.
   Ms. Braun's victory touched a nerve among Illinois voters.
As she thanked voters yesterday at a Chicago commuter train
station, many hugged her. When she entered a downtown
sandwich shop, customers burst into applause.
   Her candidacy particularly resonated for women. "It's a
woman's thing," says Brenda Stephenson, a resident of the
Rockwell Gardens public housing complex, who watched from her
window as about 10 women celebrated below, yelling: "She won.
She won. We did it. We did it."
   Says April Plous, a 44-year-old mother of two on Chicago's
North Side: "I'm tired of having white, rich males running
the show in this country." When she voted for Ms. Braun, she
adds, she thought of her two young daughters "and how
wonderful it would be for them to have a role model. A thrill
went through me." Ms. Plous, who hasn't been active in
politics since her college days, says she plans to volunteer
for Ms. Braun in the fall campaign.
   If she can beat Republican attorney Rich Williamson this
fall, Ms. Braun would become the first black woman -- and the
first black Democrat since Reconstruction -- to serve in the
Senate, a bastion of white males that currently includes but
two women.
   Her chances of winning in the fall will depend in part on
her ability to build a strong organization throughout
Illinois and to compete financially with Mr. Williamson, who
will begin his campaign with $1 million in backing from the
national GOP. Also, Democratic and Republican strategists
stress, she must continue to broaden her message.
   "She has clearly learned something from the problems the
feminist groups have had," says GOP pollster Linda Divall,
who worked for two unsuccessful female Senate candidates two
years ago. "She can't come across as too angry and strident."
   Ms. Braun has already started to play down the connection
between her candidacy and the anger some women feel over the
Hill-Thomas hearings. And her personal warmth may keep her
from falling into stridency. She grew up in a middle-class
family on Chicago's South Side; her father worked as a police
officer and her mother as a hospital technician. She says she
came to truly appreciate the philosophy of nonviolence at the
age of 16 as she marched at the side of Martin Luther King in
an open-housing demonstration in Gage Park, an all-white
neighborhood. "We have to connect as people and not allow
hatred to divide us," she says.
   Ms. Braun, divorced with one child, has a law degree from
the University of Chicago. She was elected a state
representative in 1978, shortly after leaving her job as a
U.S. attorney. Both during the campaign and in the
Legislature, friends were struck by her ability to bring
dissimilar people together. Barbara Flynn Currie, who entered
the Illinois House at the same time, still expresses
amazement that Ms. Braun managed to persuade fellow
legislators to increase welfare benefits, an ordinarily
unpopular measure.
   While in the Legislature, she worked closely with Harold
Washington, Chicago's first black mayor. She also served as
assistant majority leader, and ultimately was elected
recorder of deeds.
   Just now, some of the groups that ignored Ms. Braun's
Senate candidacy are rushing to embrace her. Emily's List, a
group that raises money for female Democratic candidates
(Emily is an acronym for Early Money Is Like Yeast) gave Ms.
Braun a late, $5,000 contribution and is endorsing her in the
fall election. (Emily's list includes Geraldine Ferraro in
her campaign for the U.S. Senate in New York, Ms. Feinstein
and Rep. Barbara Boxer, who is seeking California's other
Senate seat.) Emily's List members contributed $1.5 million
to 14 candidates in 1990 and, in large measure because of
angry fallout from the Hill-Thomas hearings, has even more
money to spread around this year.
   Tomorrow, Don Foley, director of the Democratic Senatorial
Campaign Committee, meets with Ms. Braun's campaign finance
chairman. Although the Democratic Party won't be able to
provide the resources that the Republicans will pump into Mr.
Williamson's campaign, Ms. Braun can now rely on the party
structure to help her build an organization; Chicago's mayor
Richard Daley and what remains of the old Cook County
Democractic machine quickly fell into line behind her after
the primary.
   Mr. Foley concedes that many Democratic incumbents are
jittery about their own prospects in the fall, and that their
nervousness was heightened by Ms. Braun's upset. On the other
hand, there are eight Democratic women running for the Senate
whom Mr. Foley and other party strategists view as credible
challengers in the fall. In some states, these candidates are
challenging Republican incumbents who are also suffering from
what some senators privately refer to as post-Anita
Hill-stress-syndrome.
   "Arlen Specter should be shaking in his boots," says Ms.
Danowitz, referring to the Pennsylvania Republican whose
prosecutorial zeal during the Hill-Thomas hearings drew much
fire. Sen. Specter is facing a primary challenge from an
anti-abortion candidate, and abortion-rights Republican
activists who have been a vital part of the senator's
constituency say they have had trouble mobilizing their
troops to support Mr. Specter because of lingering anger over
the hearings. Another GOP incumbent who may hear women's
angry roar is Iowa's Charles Grassley, a Judiciary Committee
member who backed Justice Thomas. In both cases, women are
given good chances of capturing the Democratic nominations.
   In any event, women's political groups say they are
already mobilizing for beyond 1992. In Minnesota, a group of
Democratic women organized a campaign called Minnesota
Million after the Hill-Thomas hearings. Their goal is to
raise $1 million to recruit a Democratic woman to seek in
1994 the seat currently held by GOP Sen. Dave Durenberger.
They've raised $150,000 so far and co-founder Nina Rothchild
says that in the wake of Ms. Braun's victory on Tuesday,
"we're smiling."