Heard on the Street:
   Heavily Shorted Fastenal Is Still Flying High,
   Even Though Its Earnings Growth Has Fizzled
   ----
   By John R. Dorfman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
In fact, Fastenal has grown even more expensive. It sells
at 47 times the past year's per-share earnings, 10 times book
value (assets minus liabilities per share), and five times
sales per share -- flamboyant multiples, certainly.
   The mystery is how Fastenal has kept such valuations. Most
stocks are pummeled when they report disappointing earnings.
Fastenal's earnings for 1991 were 70 cents a share, just two
cents above 1990's level. Fourth-quarter earnings were flat
at 18 cents, and would have been down a penny but for an
accounting change.
   Yet the stock -- which closed yesterday at 33 3/8, up 1/8
in over-the-counter trading -- has more than doubled from its
level at the end of 1990.
   The paradox hasn't gone unnoticed by short-sellers, who
borrow shares and sell them in hopes that the price will
fall. Eventually they must buy shares to replace the borrowed
ones, but if the price drops meanwhile, they profit. The
short interest in Fastenal -- shares borrowed, sold and not
yet replaced -- is 1,160,000 shares, or about 37 days'
trading volume. By that measure, Fastenal is the most heavily
shorted stock in the Nasdaq national market system, among
issues that trade an average of 20,000 shares a day or more.
   Analysts and money managers say the largest short position
is held by Rocker Partners, a New York investment firm that
both owns stocks and sells short. The firm won't discuss the
size of its position, but there's no question where it stands
on Fastenal. "Either the stock is manipulated or the people
who own it are dead from the neck up," growls Mark Cohodes, a
money manager at Rocker.
   "We're very aware" of the short interest, "but we go about
our business," says Stephen M. Slaggie, Fastenal's secretary
and treasurer. "I don't see any inherent weakness in Fastenal
that would give any comfort to those who are short. I know
we're at a lofty price-earnings multiple, but we have been"
for a long time.
   Mr. Slaggie attributes the stock's resilience to the fact
that its investors are long-term holders, who are confident
the company can resume its historic 30% growth. He says they
won't be disappointed. The company is "comfortable" with
consensus earnings estimates of 92 cents a share this year
and $1.18 next year.
   David Alger of Fred Alger Management in New York unloaded
his Fastenal shares last year after the company reported
uninspiring June-quarter results. Management "seemed to be
saying, `Gee whiz, we never expected this would happen to
us,'" he recalls. "And I said, `Whoa, this thing isn't as
wired together as I had hoped.'"
   James Craig, manager of Janus Fund, sold in October even
though he admires the way Fastenal's store managers, who
receive incentives based on their stores' results, "will do
everything for their customers," such as rushing an overnight
shipment to a contractor or manufacturer. He fled because the
company "was not making its numbers" and the stock price
seemed high. "Lo and behold, the stock has gone up 50%
without me."
   Why does Fastenal rise in the face of bad news? One reason
may be that no large nationwide brokerage house keeps tabs on
it. So, a stream of generally favorable reports by the firms
William Blair of Chicago and Robert W. Baird of Milwaukee may
carry extra weight.
   But Baird and Blair aren't totally disinterested parties:
They are the company's underwriters. And the money-management
arm of Blair is one of Fastenal's largest shareholders,
owning 633,000 shares as of Sept. 30, according to government
filings.
   "I don't think there's anything troubling the company
other than the recession," says Thomas Postek, an analyst at
Blair. In his latest report, he notes that nearly half of
Fastenal's recent slowdown was due to "poor sales
performance" at 14 older stores in the Midwest. The chain had
158 stores at year end, and plans to open more at a 30%
annual clip until it reaches 500 stores or so.
   Judith Scott, analyst for Baird, was on vacation and
couldn't be reached. In a recent report, she kept an
"accumulate" rating on the stock, but lowered her 1992
earnings estimate to 90 to 95 cents a share. Mr. Postek looks
for $1 a share. Michael J. Reilly, analyst with Piper Jaffray
 Hopwood in Minneapolis, guesses 88 cents, and considers the
stock too rich to buy.
   ---
   Fastenal
   (OTC; Symbol: FAST)
                                                                                                       

   Business: Distributes nuts, bolts, and screws
                                                                                                       

   Year ended Dec. 31, 1991:
   Sales: $62.3 million
   Net income: $6.6 million; 70 cents a share
                                                                                                       

   Fourth quarter, Dec. 31, 1991:
   Per-share earnings: 18 cents vs. 18 cents
                                                                                                       

   Average daily trading volume:
   36,048 shares
                                                                                                       

   Common shares outstanding: 9.5 million