Marketing  Media:
   Bertelsmann AG
   Discussing Buying
   Virgin Music Group
   ----
   By Meg Cox
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Michael Dornemann, chief executive officer of Bertelsmann
Music Group, has said the company wants to expand in the
music business, even though it has dropped out of several
bidding wars for record labels in recent years. Although BMG,
as it is known, says it is profitable overseas, it is
believed to be losing money in the U.S. Billboard, the
industry trade journal, recently reported that BMG fell to an
8.2% share of Billboard hits in 1991 from 10.4% in 1990 and
11.3% in 1989.
   "I think BMG needs this more than anybody," said Hal
Vogel, an entertainment analyst with Merrill Lynch  Co.
"They need to do something to stay in the game, and this is
the last major potential acquisition that could make the
difference."
   One report in the record industry is that BMG might be
planning to acquire Virgin Music with a partner, Paramount
Communications Inc. Paramount has acknowledged that it is
interested in the record business, and it considered a
purchase of Geffen Records before that company was purchased
by MCA Inc., now a unit of Matsushita Electric Co. But
whether Paramount would team up with Bertelsmann is unclear.
A Paramount spokesman declined to comment.
   In Virgin Music, BMG would be acquiring a company stronger
in Europe than in the U.S., though Virgin recently spent
millions to sign up U.S. superstar Janet Jackson as well as
the Rolling Stones.
   Virgin Music's suitors have included EMI Music, a division
of Thorn EMI PLC. Industry executives speculate that EMI
might have the best chance to acquire Virgin Music because
Mr. Branson has cultivated an image as a British
philanthropist and would rather sell to a British concern
than to a foreign one.
   It's widely believed that Mr. Branson will eventually
choose among Virgin's suitors, and probably by June, when
Virgin's three-year distribution deal with Time Warner Inc.'s
music group expires. Virgin is the sixth largest record
company and the last large independent one.