Environment:
   High Court to Enter Waste-Disposal War
   ----
   By Paul M. Barrett
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
"We must have the ability to preserve our own landfill
space for our own use," argues Republican Sen. Dan Coats of
Indiana, where dump capacity is expected to run out within
six years.
   Stepping into the fray, the justices have agreed to
consider two separate constitutional challenges by
waste-treatment firms of efforts by the states of Alabama and
Michigan to keep out waste from other states.
   On another front, New York is leading a dozen states in a
rebellion against a federal law that forces state governments
to take legal responsibility for low-level radioactive waste
generated in-state. At New York's behest, the justices will
decide whether Congress exceeded its authority by imposing
the requirement.
   In a fourth case involving the state of Illinois, the high
court will consider how far state governments may go in
regulating hazardous-waste dumps that are also governed by
federal worker-safety rules. The justices will hear arguments
on the Illinois case today, the New York and Michigan cases
March 30, and the Alabama case April 21. Decisions are
expected in all four cases by early summer.
   While most of the disputes before the court involve
hazardous waste, the resolutions could apply to garbage of
all sorts.
   The unusually crowded docket of waste cases reflects sharp
conflicts among lower courts and different levels of
government over how to deal with a garbage crisis that
inevitably spills across state lines. "The Supreme Court is
clogged with waste cases because our landfills are clogged
with waste," observes Daniel Weiss, a Sierra Club official.
   Congress may soon get back into the action, as well.
Several lawmakers are pushing bills that would give state or
local governments more authority to control their dump sites.
Sen. Coats, who has sponsored one such proposal, asserts that
"only Congress has the constitutional right to regulate trade
between states, even if that trade is in trash."
   But many states take a different view, refusing to wait
for Congress to act, or rejecting the solutions that do come
from Washington. With the 1992 legislative calendar shortened
by the national elections, congressional remedies appear
uncertain at best. The Supreme Court thus faces the burden of
sorting out the garbage mess on its own.
                                                                                                       

   STATE BARRIERS
                                                                                                       

   The high court in 1978 struck down a New Jersey law
prohibiting the importation of waste from outside the state.
The justices ruled that such a blanket ban unconstitutionally
interfered with interstate commerce. Waste, the court said,
is an item of trade, and New Jersey's barrier amounted to
economic protectionism.
   Environmentalists urged states to respond by recycling
their refuse, but markets for recycled materials haven't
developed as rapidly as some had hoped. States, meanwhile,
have tried to craft more subtle means of guarding their
borders. The federal courts, however, have rebuffed these
efforts to get around the 1978 New Jersey decision.
   Alabama lately has been one of the most persistent states
in trying to exclude waste from elsewhere. After a series of
court defeats, Alabama won a key victory last year before the
Alabama Supreme Court, which upheld the state's imposition of
special fees on the disposal of out-of-state hazardous waste.
The U.S. Supreme Court agreed to hear an appeal of that
decision by Chemical Waste Management Inc., of Oak Brook,
Ill., which operates the country's largest
hazardous-waste-disposal facility in the western Alabama town
of Emelle. Chemical Waste is controlled by Waste Management
Inc., also of Oak Brook.
   The case could affect the entire multibillion-dollar
waste-treatment industry as well as the businesses it serves.
An army of trade groups representing most segments of heavy
manufacturing have warned the justices in briefs that
allowing the Alabama Supreme Court decision to stand would
invite other states to enact similar restrictions. The
business groups depict an environmental and economic
nightmare: trainloads of hazardous waste with nowhere to go
and factories shut for lack of dump sites.
   In challenging Alabama's $72-a-ton levy on waste coming
from out of state, Chemical Waste has an important ally in
the U.S. Justice Department, which filed a brief at the high
court's request. Solicitor General Kenneth Starr declares
that the Constitution's Commerce Clause precludes Alabama's
"imposing upon out-of-state {waste} generators a financial
burden that the state is unwilling to place on its own
citizens." Chemical Waste, which annually brings hundreds of
thousands of tons of hazardous waste to Emelle, most of it
from other states, says the special fee would cost it tens of
millions of dollars a year.
   Alabama concedes that a national waste-allocation plan
would be better than state-by-state barriers. But without
congressional action, Alabama insists that it has "a
legitimate interest in guarding against the various health,
safety and environmental risks posed by the transportation
and landfilling of enormous quantities of inherently
dangerous hazardous wastes."
                                                                                                       

   RADIOACTIVE DISPUTE
                                                                                                       

   A potential model for resolving state feuds over hazardous
waste is the federal scheme for low-level radioactive waste
generated by nuclear power plants, research laboratories and
hospitals. Congress passed legislation in 1980 aimed at
eventually making states responsible for disposing of such
waste generated within their borders by private, state and
certain federal producers. In 1985, Congress amended the law
to require that states unable to dispose of such waste --
either on their own, or in regional compacts -- would
nevertheless be forced to take possession of it and held
liable for any damages resulting from failure to do so. This
"take-title" provision goes into effect in 1996.
   The radioactive-waste legislation, according to the U.S.
Justice Department, provides a rare example of the political
process working the way civics textbooks say it should. State
governors played a leading role in shaping the bill and
endorsed it unanimously. Congress decisively addressed the
obvious inequity of only a handful of states -- Washington,
Nevada and South Carolina -- serving as the low-level
radioactive-dump sites for the entire country.
   New York, whose congressional delegation participated in
drafting and enacting the legislation, proceeded to choose
potential dump sites. But then the Nimby -- "Not In My Back
Yard" -- syndrome struck with a vengeance. Residents in the
targeted counties protested, and in 1990 New York sued the
federal government, alleging that Congress had
unconstitutionally impinged upon its autonomy. Backing New
York in two briefs, a dozen other states maintain that the
take-title provision "tramples on state sovereignty by
putting state legislative and executive branches squarely
under the thumb of Congress."
   In a controversial 1985 decision, the Supreme Court
sharply limited the judiciary's authority to second-guess
federal laws that interfere with state autonomy. Two lower
courts invoked that 5-4 ruling when they threw out New York's
lawsuit. But Chief Justice William Rehnquist, who dissented
in the 1985 case, has stated flatly his desire to see it
reversed. The Rehnquist court hasn't been shy about
overturning precedent, and the radioactive-waste case offers
an opportunity to revisit the 1985 decision.