International:
   Japanese Officials Make Multiple Raids
   In Latest Gangster-Politician Scandal
   ----
   By Christopher J. Chipello
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Of potentially greater significance are Tokyo Sagawa's
political connections. Japanese media reports have alleged
that the company donated billions of yen to more than 100
politicians, in opposition parties as well as in the ruling
Liberal Democratic Party. Some analysts predict the affair
could develop into a political debacle similar to the 1980s
Recruit Co. influence-peddling stock scandal, which forced
the resignation of then-Prime Minister Noboru Takeshita and
caused Kiichi Miyazawa, currently prime minister, to step
down as finance minister.
   So far, no hard evidence has emerged to show that any
particular politicians took illegal contributions from Tokyo
Sagawa. Japanese law allows corporations to make political
contributions within limits based on the size of the company.
   But enforcement authorities are expected to look for
evidence that political contributions enabled Tokyo Sagawa to
win favorable treatment from politicians involved in
transport regulation -- a pattern that could lead to charges
of bribery.
   If the scandal does begin to engulf politicians, it isn't
clear how it will affect Mr. Miyazawa, who is already
wrestling with a separate scandal involving a senior
political ally. That scandal has tied up parliamentary budget
debate for the past week and raised questions about Mr.
Miyazawa's staying power. But among the major LDP factions,
Mr. Miyazawa's is believed to have been "the farthest from
Tokyo Sagawa," according to Minoru Morita, a political
commentator who has closely tracked the emerging scandal.
"There seems to be within the LDP a general view that until
the Tokyo Sagawa scandal is settled, it's better to support
Miyazawa," Mr. Morita says.
   On the other hand, further revelations of illegal or
questionable behavior by senior LDP politicians could cost
the party heavily in elections for the upper house of
parliament, scheduled for July, a result that could bring an
early end to Mr. Miyazawa's government.
   Tokyo Sagawa is 30%-owned by Sagawa Kyubin K.K., a
privately held Kyoto company that is the center of the
nationwide Sagawa group of delivery companies. Hiroyasu
Watanabe, Tokyo Sagawa's former president, and Jun Saotome,
the company's former managing director, were dismissed last
July and charged by Tokyo Sagawa with breach of trust in
connection with losses from the company's heavy lending
activity. According to Japanese press reports, the homes of
Mr. Watanabe and Mr. Saotome were among the targets of
Thursday's raids by the prosecutors and police.
   According to several press reports, documents reviewed by
enforcement authorities in recent weeks indicate that Tokyo
Sagawa made several hundred billion yen in loans and loan
guarantees. Of the total, around 100 billion yen is believed
to have gone to companies controlled by Susumu Ishii, former
head of the Inagawa-kai syndicate. The late Mr. Ishii was
regarded as a key figure in the increased infiltration by
gangsters into the mainstream Japanese business world.