Politics  Policy:
   Illinois Primary Could Be Clinton's Springboard
   To Victory, but He Faces Formidable Challenges
   ----
   By David Shribman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
In an interview, Mr. Clinton says he always believed that
"this thing would probably come down to Illinois and what
happens in the industrial heartland after Super Tuesday." He
was right. In the twin Midwestern primaries here and in
Michigan -- regional fights without regional favorite sons,
the biggest tests of the campaign thus far -- Mr. Tsongas may
be facing his last real chance to stop Mr. Clinton.
   Long a pivotal state, Illinois has catapulted three of the
last four Democratic nominees to convention victories. And if
Mr. Clinton's gamble pays off and he wins here, he'll
demonstrate for the first time that he can win not only in a
Northern state but one that will also be a battleground in
the fall campaign.
   But even with his head start here, Mr. Clinton faces
formidable challenges picking his way through the ward
politics, taboos and customs of perhaps the most Byzantine
political culture in the nation. And the doubts that he faces
nationwide over his marriage and reports that he angled to
evade the draft in the Vietnam years are magnified in the
hothouse of Illinois politics.
   While Mr. Tsongas now publicly is assailing his rival as
"our most vulnerable candidate," Chicago political insiders
privately worry that Mr. Clinton -- with whom they have no
long-term relationship anyhow -- has no net to catch him if
he starts tumbling.
   "People just aren't comfortable with Clinton," says state
Sen. Jerry Joyce, whose district is in the southwest corner
of Chicago. "There's something there that bothers them."
   Mike Sheehan, the Cook County sheriff who had sided with
Nebraska Sen. Bob Kerrey before he dropped out, is holding
back from Mr. Clinton. "I want to stay out of this," he
pleads. "I don't think Clinton's going to be in it in the
long haul."
   There are other warning signs: The coalition of 14 unions
that had endorsed Tom Harkin has decided not to side with
anyone now that the Iowa senator has withdrawn from the race;
it's the first time in a generation that Illinois labor
didn't have a clear favorite in a Democratic presidential
primary. "There isn't anyone articulating labor's position,"
says Sue Altman, spokeswoman for the Illinois chapter of the
AFL-CIO.
   Chicago Mayor Richard Daley has also chosen no favorite,
and the remainder of the Cook County machine has neither
endorsed a candidate nor even planned a function for the
primary.
   But Mr. Tsongas may not be in a position to reap the
benefit of these opportunities. The Tsongas camp has the air
of a militia fighting a bigger, better equipped and richer
foe. Mr. Clinton has raised an estimated $400,000 in this
state alone; as recently as six weeks ago, Mr. Tsongas had
only two workers in Illinois.
   Mr. Tsongas may have erred when he ignored the advice of
leading Democrats here. They urged him to skip campaigning in
the Southern states, all of which he lost by big margins
anyhow, and to hopscotch ahead to Illinois, where he could
have stolen a march on Mr. Clinton in the senior-citizen
centers, ethnic enclaves and church-basement bingo socials.
   Mr. Tsongas has also failed to make any inroads among
black voters here, despite a visit this week to Harper High
School on Chicago's South Side. As a result, Mr. Clinton,
having won four-fifths of the black vote in the Southern
Super Tuesday primaries this week, begins with a base of
black and Hispanic voters that can provide as much as an 18%
head start. "Tsongas hasn't said anything about the problems
that African-Americans care about, and at least Clinton is
trying," says Robert Starks, an expert on black politics at
Northeastern Illinois University's Center for Inner City
Studies.
   Moreover, in a situation where there's little interest and
a voter turnout that a leading Democratic analyst believes
will be "pathetic," the candidate with the momentum may be
the candidate with the advantage.
   Though parts of it are unenthusiastic, Mr. Clinton's
organization, assembled by former Daley campaign manager
David Wilhelm, is hanging together. It's no match for the
organization that former Vice President Walter Mondale
fashioned eight years ago, but it's far stronger than what
Mr. Tsongas's supporters have pasted together in the past
week or so.
   And so as the Clinton forces deploy their shock troops --
they have Advance Team Red, Advance Team White and Advance
Team Blue strewn across the state in the final days before
the primary -- the Tsongas forces are struggling along. The
Tsongas campaign plane got stuck in the mud at Midway Airport
this week, and inevitably the local television stations took
the episode as a metaphor for the campaign's troubles.
   "A few weeks ago no one knew who Paul Tsongas was," says
Kitty Kurth, the Tsongas state director. "It's better now.
And the people who know us like us. The question is whether
we can reach the rest of the people in less than a week."
   In recent days, the two candidates have continued to spar.
Mr. Clinton's forces here are distributing a leaflet
highlighting Mr. Tsongas's opposition to legislation banning
striker replacements, an important issue for union members.
Mr. Tsongas's camp is seizing on a dozen-year-old appeal Mr.
Clinton made to Korean industrialists boasting that
Arkansas's status as a right-to-work state was one of its
"many benefits," and crowing: "Arkansas ranks among the five
lowest states in the nation on average hourly earnings of
manufacturing workers."
   There remains a certain whiff of unpredictability in the
atmosphere here. For one thing, there's the presence of Jerry
Brown on the ballot; the former California governor has
targeted college and high-school audiences, parades and
debates, events that will permit him to gain attention
without spending money.
   There's also the fact that the political professionals Mr.
Clinton has enlisted aren't the guarantee of success they
might have been a decade or more ago. "People get their
political news from television rather than from precinct
committees now," says Sam Gove, a veteran political analyst
at the University of Illinois's Institute of Government and
Public Affairs. "The organization doesn't have the jobs to
give out anymore. The ward committeemen can't deliver the
votes anymore."
   So Mr. Tsongas is probing the softness of the Clinton
support. On Wednesday afternoon, for example, Thaleia Tsongas
Schlesinger, Mr. Tsongas's twin sister, burst into
headquarters to report that all day she'd been going to
"places where the top of the crowd is for Clinton and where
everyone in the rest of the crowd wanted a Tsongas button."
   And Mr. Clinton is facing urban ethnic voters for the
first time, a target that's no mystery to Mr. Tsongas. He has
targeted 14 Greek groups and even three Assyrian groups, and
seems comfortable in an electorate where whole blocks speak
only Polish and where the Irish and Italians have their own
power centers.
   That's Mr. Clinton's biggest test. "He has now proven he
has two key elements of the Democratic coalition: blacks and
Southern whites," says Paul Maslin, a Democratic political
pollster. "If he can add the blue-collar ethnics in places
like Illinois, he's the nominee."