Europe's Computer Makers Seek Allies
   ---
   Aim Is To Get Vital Help,
   But Retain Independence
   ----
   By Laurence Hooper
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
This kind of balancing act -- getting crucial help from
Japan and the U.S. without becoming dependent on either -- is
becoming the new survival strategy for Europe's struggling
computer industry, which has abandoned any dreams of
providing all its own technology.
   Now, France's Groupe Bull starts its own high-wire act,
finalizing the details of its plan to take on a U.S. partner
to balance its technical alliance with Japan's NEC Corp. The
troubled French giant is expected soon to choose either
International Business Machines Corp. or Hewlett-Packard Co.
for a pact that will center on an important chip technology
known as RISC, or reduced instruction set computing.
   Italy's Ing. C. Olivetti  Co., for its part, has long
been trying to avoid dependence on any single partner,
joining industry groups and forming a web of balancing
alliances with a wide range of Japanese and U.S. companies.
   "It's either an emerging strategy or a huge coincidence"
that the European companies are spreading out their
technological dependencies, says Philippe de Marcillac, who
oversees European computer research for Dataquest Inc., a
market research company. "Either way, it's an approach that
could be effective in maintaining their independence."
   For Siemens, Bull and Olivetti, which are Europe's only
remaining big independent computer makers, the strategy is
born of necessity. As computer technology has zoomed ahead,
even the strongest companies have found it difficult to
afford the huge investments needed to keep pace. The
phenomenon is exacerbated in Europe, where fragmented
national markets mean that native computer companies can't
hope to match the deep pockets of U.S. and Japanese firms
with large domestic strongholds to support them.
   In addition, stiff competition, price-cutting and a
world-wide computer-industry recession combined last year to
expose the weaknesses of many computer makers that prospered
during the flush late-1980s. The result in Europe: Bull,
Olivetti and Siemens's computer subsidiary, Siemens-Nixdorf
Informationssysteme AG, are covered with red ink. And their
prospects for remaining technologically independent,
particularly in the expensive area of research and
development, look shaky.
   In recent years, the alternatives to technological
independence seemed stark. The European companies could have
tried to meld their development efforts somehow, forming a
clumsy alliance that might gain support and orders at least
from the European Community. Last year, however, that idea
died when it became clear that the EC wasn't prepared to
spend huge sums propping up research-and-development efforts
in computers. (Also, Siemens has always balked at the idea of
getting involved with the French government, Bull's majority
shareholder.)
   Alternatively, the European companies could have become
reliant on a single strong source of non-European technology,
as did International Computers Ltd. (now ICL PLC) of the U.K.
and Germany's Comparex Informationssysteme G.m.b.H. Those two
companies, in a move that proved successful, handed over much
of their technical spadework -- and much of their stock -- to
Japan's Fujitsu Ltd. and Hitachi Corp., respectively.
   For Siemens, Bull or Olivetti to form such a dependence on
outside technology would be a blow to European pride, but the
three only recently seemed to have little choice. Indeed, for
the past two years the only question seemed to be whether to
choose a U.S. sugar daddy such as IBM, or a Japanese one such
as Fujitsu -- and perhaps, whether the relationship would
involve an equity stake.
   Now, however, the balancing-act strategy is emerging, and
industry executives speak of a Europe that can remain
independent even without a strong foundation of home-grown
technology. The movement is strengthened by a recent trend in
the computer world to interlocking alliances between rival
companies, a trend some have dubbed "co-opetition" -- a cross
between competition and cooperation.
   Prime among Europe's high-wire acts so far has been
Siemens's effort to maintain a foothold in the market for
silicon chips, a field the company believes is vital to its
technological independence in many areas, not just computers.
Unable to keep up with the breakneck pace of the industry
leaders, Siemens had to buy two of its last three computer
memory-chip designs from an outside source -- but
significantly, it didn't use the same company's design twice.
   Dr. Mirow, the corporate strategist, notes that while
Siemens's first chip partnership, with Japan's Toshiba Corp.,
continues to be successful, the company deliberately chose a
different partner the next time it went shopping: IBM, which
has been courting Europeans with very attractive offers of
long-term cooperation.
   "If someone were to start getting a very strong hold on
us, we would pull back our hands," says Dr. Mirow. "Maybe we
feel our independence would be threatened."
   A key to maintaining this independence: After buying any
foreign technology, Siemens works feverishly to duplicate the
expertise in-house. The strategy hasn't yet made Siemens
competitive with its chip-technology partners, but Dr. Mirow
thinks the company has a good chance of repeating the success
it has enjoyed in other sectors -- in nuclear power plants,
for example, where it bought its original expertise from
Westinghouse Electric Corp. of the U.S. but is now a world
leader.
   While Bull officials won't discuss their
soon-to-be-announced RISC pact in any depth, industry
executives say an American linkup is intended as a
counterbalance to Bull's relationship with NEC, which
supplies Bull with some key mainframe technology.
   To emphasize the balancing aspect of the deal, Bull's
prospective partners are being pushed to take an equity stake
in Bull that is at least commensurate with NEC's 4.7% holding
in the French computer firm.
   Meanwhile, Olivetti doesn't rule out a single strong
partner -- it has a good relationship with Digital Equipment
Corp. of the U.S., for example, and has talked with ICL --
but the Italian company has generally shunned any arrangement
that tends in that direction. Instead, it has balanced a
number of smaller technical partnerships with both Japanese
and U.S. firms, from Canon Inc. to Conner Peripherals Inc.,
and has joined almost every industry group offering new
technology, figuring this doesn't compromise its
independence.