Letters to the Editor:
   Socialized Medicine Is No Cure-All
Why would my sister spend $40,000 when health care in
Canada is free? The answer: It's only free if you can get it,
and if you are willing to let your loved ones receive less
than the best possible care. The truth is, health care in
Canada is anything but free. Our general tax burden is
significantly heavier than in the U.S., and the overall
burden of funding the system grows heavier each year. We now
must wait in line for things such as coronary-bypass
operations, MRI scans and the latest in ultrasound treatment
of kidney stones. The next cuts floated by our health
minister suggest there will be a reduction in the number of
C-sections, and that people over age 70 will be denied heart
operations.
   You might wonder where the medical profession stands after
20 years of socialized medical care. It doesn't, because long
ago it threw in the towel. Many of our best have gone south,
and those who remain are now quiet. The doctors know that it
is a losing proposition to protest.
   So the system has quietly disintegrated. The press has
given up reporting about people dying in emergency waiting
rooms, about old machinery generations behind what most
American hospitals have, and about a health-care profession
tired of being the whipping boy. Instead, in the midst of our
decline, the press writes about the lousy American
health-care system, and that suits most Canadians just fine.
   Abraham Blinick
   Toronto
   ---
   It is very nice that a young baby can come into the world
covered by comprehensive health insurance paid for by
Canadian taxpayers. Of course, no consideration is given to
the fact that in the U.S. the malpractice insurance of an
obstetrician runs between $50,000 and $100,000 a year, adding
enormously to the care of a pregnant woman and her child.
   Also, the usual prejudicial statements about gross income
are made. For example, the average gross income of a Canadian
doctor is $127,777, compared with $256,000 for a U.S. doctor.
Of course, this is gross income; this is income before
overhead. As you are well aware, the overhead of an American
physician is about twice that of a Canadian physician, so
again this is a very prejudicial approach and comparison.
   In addition, there is no mention of the extreme
difficulties the Canadian healthcare system is having paying
its bills. For example, Ontario, the richest and most
populous province of Canada, has lost nearly 5,000 hospital
jobs and 3,500 beds over the past two years because of
cutbacks in government spending.
   Canada is not utopia. It has immense problems with a
system that promises unlimited free care. There is no such
thing.
   Lawrence J. Nastro, M.D.
   Summit, N.J.
   ---
   I was particularly offended by Dr. Sarah S. Prichard's
asinine characterization of American doctors as "greedy
pigs." Had Dr. Prichard taken the trouble, as we did, to
compare malpractice-insurance premiums along four points on
both sides of the border she would have found that for an
obstetrician it would be $4,000 on her side but $40,000 on
ours. Presumably, our doctors are either 10 times worse than
theirs or our plaintiffs' attorneys 10 times more rapacious.
   Is there a province in Canada where a good neurosurgeon
has to pay $106,000 for basic malpractice insurance, as in
parts of Florida? We add an extra $20 billion to our national
health bill with all kinds of unneeded tests out of simple
terror of a plaintiffs' bar out of control. (Out of every
malpractice dollar expended, 72 cents goes to the legal
community and 28 cents winds up in the injured patient's
pocket.)
   Mark Gorney, M.D.
   Executive Vice President
   Medical Director
   The Doctor's Company
   Napa, Calif.