What's News --
   World-Wide
Mandela welcomed the results, but said apartheid was still
alive and warned the referendum must be the "absolute last"
whites-only vote.
   ---
   Islamic Jihad claimed responsibility for the bombing of
Israel's embassy in Buenos Aires. Argentine authorities said
20 people died and more than 250 were injured, and said the
toll probably would rise. The pro-Iran Muslim fundamentalist
group said the suicide attack was in retaliation for Israel's
Feb. 16 killing of a Shiite leader.
   ---
   The Agriculture Department postponed for one year a
sweeping nutrition-labeling plan for more than 300,000 meat
and poultry products. The move is part of the Bush
administration's deregulation drive and is certain to
intensify pressure on the FDA to postpone its parallel
truth-in-labeling initiative.
   ---
   Anti-incumbent sentiment appears to be growing, as
evidenced by the results of Tuesday's Democratic primaries in
Illinois, which saw the defeats of four House members and
Sen. Dixon. Coupled with Brown's strong second-place finish
in Michigan, the day was a signal that officeholders may be
in trouble this year.
   ---
   Israel's Parliament approved a bill providing for direcct
election of the prime minister. The new system goes into
effecct in 1996. The current system has been criticized
because, since no Israeli party has ever won enough votes to
rule alone, it leads to long negotiations in which small
parties use their leverage to extract money and jobs.
   ---
   Britain's main political parties unveiled their platforms
in the campaign for an April 9 general election, but
newspaper polls provided a conflicting picture of whether
Labor or the Conservatives lead. Two polls yesterday put
Labor on top by five points, but a poll to be published today
gives the Tories a two-point edge.
   ---
   The U.S. has drawn up plans for a bombing strike against
Iraqi weapons facilities in the event Saddam Hussein keeps
blocking U.N. destruction of his arsenals, U.S. officials
said. A decision to bomb could depend in part on the outcome
of a trip by a U.N. team this weekend to destroy equipment
for building Scud missiles, one official said.
   ---
   U.S. air safety investigators admitted they erred in their
determination of the cause of a 1989 United Airlines accident
over the Pacific that killed nine people. The investigators,
after examining a Boeing 747 door retrieved from the ocean
floor, now say an electrical malfunction, not a mechanical
one, was the cause.
   ---
   Bosnia-Hercegovina leaders agreed to divide the breakaway
Yugoslav republic into three regions dominated by its three
main ethnic groups, Serbs, Croats and Muslims, in an attempt
to avoid a civil war like the one that has raged in Croatia.
Details of the agreement, signed at EC-sponsored talks in
Sarajevo, remain to be worked out.
   ---
   Armenia declared a state of emergency because of a
worsening economic situation caused by an Azerbaijani
blockade, according to a broadcast by Armenian radio. In
Azerbaijan, U.N. special envoy Vance tried to arrange a
temporary cease-fire between Armenia and Azerbaijan to allow
him to visit the disputed enclave of Nagorno-Karabakh.
   ---
   Leona Helmsley was ordered to begin serving a four-year
prison term for tax evasion after she lost a bid to stay out
of jail by pleading that separating her from her husband,
83-year-old New York real estate magnate Harry Helmsley,
would kill them both. The self-styled hotel queen, 71, is to
begin serving her sentence April 15.
   ---
   A Colombian judge found Medellin cocaine cartel chief
Escobar guilty in the 1986 murder of a newspaper publisher, a
top official in Bogota said. The decision, which must be
ratified by another judge, is the first issued against
Escobar, who turned himself in last year in return for
leniency.