America West Air
   Is Weighing Plan
   To Wipe Out Stock
   ----
   By Robert Johnson
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The debt-for-equity swap plan follows a similar
reorganization formula filed by Continental Airlines Holdings
Inc. last month. America West, of Phoenix, Ariz., said it
won't file its contemplated plan in bankruptcy court until
this summer.
   America West, the nation's ninth-largest airline, said the
reorganization plan would allow the company to keep flying at
least its current routes.
   But under the plan, the company's employees, already beset
by layoffs totaling 1,500, or 10% of the work force, will
lose the common stock they were required to buy. America West
employees, who own an estimated 20% of the company's stock,
won't receive shares in the new company. They would receive
certain stock options, enough to gain a "meaningful amount of
equity," the company said late Friday.
   America West said the plan eliminates all current equity.
"The company anticipates that the interests of current
preferred and common shareholders will be eliminated," it
said in a statement.
   America West's total debt is more than $400 million, but a
spokeswoman said yesterday the company has resumed making
payments on aircraft and on some airport leases that were
previously halted. She said the company's cash position is
fast improving.
   Will America West's employees again be required to
purchase stock in new company? "We aren't sure yet," the
spokeswoman said.
   Some America West employees interviewed over the weekend
said the plan is a painful surprise, but they conceded that
losing their equity is better than the elimination of jobs.
   Michael Conway, president and chief executive officer,
said the company foresees emerging from Chapter 11 protection
eventually, with the "dedication" of its employees. America
West filed for protection under Chapter 11 of the federal
Bankruptcy Code last June.
   America West posted a narrower loss for the fourth quarter
of $47.8 million, or $2.07 a share, compared with a loss of
$56.3 million, or $2.98 a share, a year earlier. Revenue fell
5.6% to $326.7 million.