U.S. to Wait for New Thai Government
   To Discuss Protection of Drug Patents
   ----
   By Eduardo Lachica
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
In response to U.S. pressure, the Thai national assembly
last month passed amendments to the Thai patent law that
provide coverage for pharmaceutical products for 20 years
after their patents are applied for in Thailand. However,
Trade Representative Carla Hills said she found the law
"deficient in several respects, which we will address with
the new government."
   She also criticized the law for not including a provision
to protect medicines that already are patented outside
Thailand but are yet to be marketed in that country. Such
"pipeline" protection, as the U.S. industry calls it, is the
norm for Western patent laws. Bangkok argues, however, that
it is being subject to a standard that is higher than
observed by most developing countries.
   Mrs. Hills also found fault in another provision of the
Thai law that empowers the government to require foreign
pharmaceutical companies to license their products to
domestic producers. Such compulsory licensing, as practiced
in many developing countries, tends to greatly reduce the
licensers' potential earnings.
   The Pharmaceutical Manufacturers Association, the U.S.
trade body that sought this U.S. action, said the Thai law is
"totally unacceptable." The association objects particularly
to a provision giving a pharmaceutical patent board the power
to demand proprietary information from any pharmaceutical
company represented in Thailand. Company managers refusing to
provide such information could be subject to imprisonment or
heavy fines, the association said.
   The association said its members, given adequate
protection, could generate as much as $60 million a year in
Thai sales. But because of widespread patent piracy,
association companies can't do more than $12 million a year
in Thailand, the group said.
   If the U.S. fails to resolve the issue with the new Thai
government, it may have to resort to trade sanctions on
certain Thai products.