Ciba-Geigy Agrees to Pay $61,350,000
   Over New Jersey Environmental Dispute
   ----
   By Suein L. Hwang
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The settlement ended years of battling between New Jersey
and Ciba-Geigy that began in 1984, when it was discovered
that hazardous waste had seeped into the groundwater in a
nearby residential area. A year later, in an unrelated
incident that enraged the neighboring community, the company
paid a $1,450,000 fine to settle charges that the dye plant
had dumped 14,000 drums of toxic waste in a site where only
nonhazardous solid waste dumping was permitted. The most
recent charges are tied to the latter incident.
   Ciba-Geigy had already felt the state's wrath; in 1988,
the New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection
rejected the company's petition to build a $90 million
pharmaceutical plant at the Toms River facility. "We accept
responsibility for the mistakes made many years ago that led
to charges against us, and we apologize for them," Richard
Barth, chairman, president and chief executive officer, said.
   Under the agreement, Ciba-Geigy and two one-time managers
of the Toms River plant pleaded guilty to a fourth degree
misdemeanor charging the unlawful discharge of a pollutant, a
violation of the Water Pollution Control Act. The company was
fined $9 million in various fines and civil penalties, and an
additional $2,350,000 to cover the state's legal and
administrative costs. The employees -- William Bobsein, the
61-year old manager of the Environmental Technology
Department and James A. McPherson, 59, a supervisor in charge
of the landfill -- will each be fined $25,000. The state
agreed to dismiss the balance of the 25-count indictment. Mr.
Bobsein retired last year, and Mr. McPherson has been on
leave pending the outcome of the charges.
   The company, a unit of the Basel, Switzerland,
pharmaceutical concern Ciba-Geigy Ltd., also agreed to commit
at least $50 million to a Superfund environmental cleanup at
the plant. If the entire $50 million isn't spent within seven
years, the balance will be placed into a trust fund for use
in future Toms River plant remediation. Ciba-Geigy has
already spent $30 million on remediation of the site.
   Ciba-Geigy also agreed to undertake a number of measures
to clean up the area, such as pumping and restoration of
contaminated groundwater creeping to a street adjoining the
area, and installing a new state-of-the-art cap for a portion
of the dump site. Mr. Madonna said the costs to undergo these
projects would be in the "many of millions" of dollars. "It's
at least another $13 to $15 million, conservatively," he
said.