The Murky Links Between Biology,
   Behavior Are Under Growing Study
   ----
   By David Stipp
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Two years later, her family brought her back to the
hospital after she had disrobed in public several times,
laughed and cried without reason and showed other signs of
derangement. She also was given to sudden outbursts of
violence. Doctors found that continuously feeding her was the
only way to keep her from attacking them. After she died a
few months later, they found a tumor had partly destroyed her
hypothalamus, a master control part of the brain that
regulates eating, temperature and other basic functions.
   Her case, reported in the 1960s, is a classic example of
how brain damage can cause violent behavior. But rarely is
the biology-behavior link so clear-cut. Typically, it is
complicated by social and psychological factors, such as
being programmed for violent behavior by childhood abuse.
Nevertheless, many cases of chronic violent behavior have
been correlated with something gone physically wrong in the
head. A hallmark of such violence is its purposeless,
impulsive nature, says Paul Spiers, an expert at
Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
   Studies on violence are beginning to reveal how disease,
drugs or head injury can undermine normal controls on
aggression. Sometimes neurotransmitters, brain chemicals that
send signals between neurons, are out of kilter. In one case,
a mild-mannered middle-aged scientist suddenly became highly
irritable and violently argumentative for about a week after
exposure to tick powder he had applied to his cat, which also
went berserk. The powder apparently overactivated a
neurotransmitter in the man's hypothalamus, the brain area
involved in the bookkeeper's case, says David Bear, a
University of Massachusetts psychiatrist who studies
violence.
   Malfunctions in the brain's temporal lobes, which are
involved in integrating sensory experiences with emotions,
also have been implicated in abnormal violence. Dr. Bear
cites a young woman who sustained temporal-lobe damage from a
blow to the head and then underwent a bizarre personality
change. She once held a knife to a psychiatrist's throat for
three hours and later sent him a vial of her own blood to
apologize.
   Damage to a brain area called the frontal area, which is
involved in judgment and other higher mental functions, also
can contribute to violence. People with such damage tend to
be impulsive and have impaired ability to understand the
consequences of their actions. In one such case, Dr. Bear
says, a nurse with frontal damage caused by multiple
sclerosis became irritated by the cries of her young son and
burned his arms with cigarette butts. Later, she denied
feeling angry and showed no concern about his burns.
   Traditionally, violence-associated brain damage has been
diagnosed by batteries of tests, such as asking patients to
interpret proverbs to determine whether their ability to deal
with abstractions is impaired. Now technologies to make
images of the brain -- particularly so-called PET and MRI
scanners -- are showing more directly the brain deficits
linked to violence.
   In one study of criminals with a history of purposeless
violence, PET scanners showed markedly reduced blood flow and
abnormal metabolism in the frontal and temporal lobes,
suggesting that parts of their brains controlling judgment
and emotions were malfunctioning. Such studies eventually may
reshape the law on the insanity defense -- for instance, by
giving more credibility to insanity pleas based on loss of
emotional control, says Laurence Tancredi, a University of
Texas researcher and co-author of the PET study.
   Indeed, cases of "uncontrolled rage" without loss of
higher brain functions do exist, says Massachusetts' Dr.
Bear, who cites a 10-year-old boy with congenital brain
damage. The child viciously bit anyone who approached him,
but warned people to keep back so he wouldn't hurt them. His
brain damage had apparently cut connections between higher
and lower brain areas, lessening control the higher regions
exert over rage reactions springing from the lower areas, Dr.
Bear says.