Credit Markets:
   Corporate Debt Issuance Continues as Companies
   Rush to Borrow Before Rates Move Higher Again
   ----
   By Tom Herman and Anita Raghavan
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
Prices of long-term Treasury bonds sank about 3/8 point,
or about $3.75 for each $1,000 face amount. That was their
fifth consecutive losing session. The yield on the
government's 30-year issue, which moves in the opposite
direction from its price, climbed to 7.57% from 7.54%.
   Corporations are rushing to issue bonds to take advantage
of sharp declines in interest rates over the past few months.
Waiting much longer could be costly, some treasurers and bond
analysts fear, because borrowing costs may already have hit
bottom.
   Yesterday's huge volume came on top of $1.5 billion sold
Tuesday and more than $12.5 billion last week, which was a
record, according to Securities Data Co. Among the issuers
yesterday: Dayton Hudson Corp., Paramount Communications
Inc., Rhone-Poulenc S.A., Safeway Inc. and the General
Electric Capital Corp. unit of General Electric Co.
   Some traders blamed the bond market's slump yesterday in
part on the avalanche of corporate borrowing. Others
attributed it mainly to investors yanking money out of bonds
to jump on the stock-market bandwagon. Some analysts also
said the stock market's explosive recent gain represents an
important signal that the economy will begin to rebound this
spring, adding to inflation pressures and making bonds less
attractive.
   Corporate and municipal bond prices also declined
yesterday. However, prices rose slightly on corporate junk
bonds, those high-yield, high-risk issues that have a low
credit rating or no rating at all.
   Renewed speculation about the size of the Treasury's next
quarterly borrowing program, scheduled for next month,
continued to roil the government bond market. Treasury
officials are debating whether to reduce the size of the
government's 10-year note and 30-year bond sales and instead
sell larger amounts of lower-yielding, shorter-term notes.
   Several traders said the Treasury yesterday gave a hint
that it won't significantly reduce the 10-year note and
30-year bond sales. They said Treasury bond prices slid after
the government announced unexpectedly small two-year and
five-year note sales for next week.
   The Treasury said it will sell $13.75 billion of two-year
notes Wednesday and $9.25 billion of five-year notes the
following day. The news "immediately implied to traders" that
the reduction in the 30-year bond refinancing "would not be
as great as expected," said Jim Donnelly, chief analyst of
Technical Data in Boston. Long-term bond prices came under
pressure as a result, he said.
   Government officials have been tempted to rely less on
longer-term debt issues because short-term rates are much
lower than long-term rates. Late yesterday, Treasury notes
due in nearly two years yielded just over 5%. Five-year notes
yielded about 6.35%, and seven-year notes around 6.75% --
significantly below the 7.57% yield on 30-year bonds.
   While U.S. bond prices slumped, prices of German and
British government issues advanced. Activity was brisk in the
Eurobond markets, with about $1.3 billion of new
dollar-denominated issues.
                                                                                                       

   Treasury Securities
                                                                                                       

   Treasury bond prices ended moderately lower, extending
their recent losing streak.
   The government's 30-year bonds slumped to 104 29/32 from
105 8/32 Tuesday. Shorter-term notes also fell. The two-year
notes declined to 99 30/32 from 100 1/32.
   Treasury bill rates inched higher. The discount rate on
six-month bills rose to 3.91% bid from 3.88%.
   Traders say short-term rates reflect the growing view
among economists that the Federal Reserve won't be quick to
ease monetary policy again. Instead, Fed officials are widely
expected to wait and assess the impact of recent
credit-easing moves.
   Meanwhile, huge amounts of new corporate debt still said
to be sitting unsold on dealers' shelves had a depressing
effect on prices. Dealers have been selling Treasury
securities to make room for the corporate issues. "Until that
subsides, we're going to be in for some tough sledding here,"
a trader said.
   Traders expect a government report this morning on
inflation to show only a moderate price increase during
December. According to the average estimate of economists
surveyed by Dow Jones Capital Markets Report, the December
consumer price index rose 0.2%, or 0.3% excluding food and
energy costs.
   Some bond traders have been hoping that the Treasury would
eliminate issuance of 30-year bonds. It's understood,
however, that Treasury officials aren't seriously considering
that idea. Instead, they are thinking about reducing the
amount of 10-year notes and of 30-year bonds. A decision is
expected to be announced by early February.
                                                                                                       

   Corporate  Junk Bonds
                                                                                                       

   Another big wave of corporate borrowing hit the markets,
contributing to the overall slump in bond prices.
   So far this year, almost $19 billion of new debt has been
sold in the corporate sector.
   In the secondary market for investment-grade corporate
debt, prices of highgrade bonds declined about 1/8 to 1/4
point.
   Rhone-Poulenc offered $500 million of 10-year notes
yielding 7.85%. The noncallable notes were priced at a spread
of 0.80 percentage point above the yield on the Treasury's
10-year note.
   Among the other issuers was Citizens Utilities Co., the
latest in a string of electric companies to sell debt. The
company offered $100 million of 12-year debentures priced to
yield 7.48%.
   The financing will result in "significant savings" to the
company, said Robert DeSantis, treasurer. Mr. DeSantis said
the utility will use proceeds from the bond sale primarily to
redeem higher-coupon debt issues.
   In the junk bond market, prices of most junk bonds ended
slightly higher. In the new-issue sector, Safeway came to
market with an offering of $250 million of 12-year senior
subordinated notes priced to yield 9.65%.
                                                                                                       

   Municipal Bonds
                                                                                                       

   Most long-term municipal bonds ended unchanged to 1/8
point lower in light trading.
   Bridgeport, Conn., said it would withdraw its appeal of a
federal bankruptcy judge's denial of its petition for
protection under Chapter 9 of the bankruptcy code. Thinly
traded Bridgeport general obligation bonds were unaffected by
the move, Connecticut dealers said.
   Among seasoned tax-exempts, the Florida Board of
Education's 6.70% issues of 2022 finished 1/8 point lower at
101 3/8 to yield 6.57%.
   In limited new issue action, a First Chicago Capital
Markets Inc. group sold $292.9 million of Chicago Board of
Education general obligation lease certificates. The issue
was repriced late in the session. The repricing raised the
yield on one maturity by 0.02 percentage point. But the bonds
remain priced to yield from 6.20% for current interest bonds
maturing in 2006 to 6.50% for bonds maturing in 2020 and
zero-coupon bonds in 2006.
   The bonds are insured by MBIA Corp. and rated triple-A by
both Moody's Investors Service Inc. and Standard  Poor's
Corp.
                                                                                                       

   Foreign Bonds
                                                                                                       

   German government bonds rose, bolstered by continued
strong buying by U.S. investors.
   Germany's benchmark 8% bonds due 2002 gained 0.11 point to
101.01 to yield 7.85%. Shorter-term issues posted gains of
about half a point.
   Some U.S. bond strategists are bullish on German bonds
because they expect sluggish German economic growth and
moderate inflation. Germany's central bank probably will be
tough in combating inflation pressures, they say. Moreover,
German bond yields are higher than U.S. bond yields, and some
U.S. money managers expect the mark to rise against the
dollar.
   Activity was brisk in the Eurobond market, where a large
volume of new dollar issues was offered. However, a large
portion of these issues remains unsold among underwriters,
according to some bond specialists.
                                                                                                       

   Mortgage  Asset-Backed Securities
                                                                                                       

   Stability returned to mortgage securities prices after a
recent deep slump.
   Mortgage bankers continued to unload securities to hedge
the big wave of refinancing activity. But offsetting those
sales, dealers -- who view current price levels as attractive
-- purchased mortgage securities to use as collateral for
real estate mortgage investment conduit deals.
   The net effect was that prices were little changed.
   Government National Mortgage Association 7.5% securities
for February delivery ended at 98 27/32, unchanged on the
day. Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp. Gold 7.5% securities
were up 1/32 at 97 28/32, and Federal National Mortgage
Association 7.5% securities advanced 1/32 to 97 23/32.
   In primary action, $1.2 billion of Freddie Mac Remics was
announced, with collateral of Freddie Mac Gold 15-year and
30-year 8% mortgage securities.
   The new Remic deals included a $400 million series Gold
1207 that was backed by Freddie Mac Gold 8% issues, a $300
million series Gold 1209 that was collateralized with Freddie
Mac Gold 15-year 8% issues and a $500 million series Gold
1210 that used Freddie Mac Gold 8% issues.