Business World:
   ADA Enables Workers' Comp Bar to Make One More Claim
   ----
   By Tim W. Ferguson
Even as politicians left and right talk about making it
safe to put Americans on payrolls again, they joined in
enacting ADA because no one likes to be on record as seeming
to condone prejudice. For the same reason, the new Civil
Rights Act, to overturn colorblind rulings of the Supreme
Court, was approved easily. This year, the two kick in,
sometimes in tandem.
   The following scene is painted by Richard Pimentel, a
disability consultant with Milt Wright  Associates of Los
Angeles, which works with the labor-law firm of Jackson,
Lewis, Schnitzler  Krupman. Keep two things in mind: It can
be in Mr. Pimentel's business interest to overstate the fix
employers are in. And, he actually sympathizes with most
workers' comp claims and with the ADA. In his view, the
problem is management shortsightedness: "We're rolling into
ADA with no real sense in American business that injured
workers are people with disabilities."
   Mr. Pimentel has another warning: "As soon as workers'
comp attorneys smell punitive damages, all hell is going to
break loose." As it was, $34.3 billion in comp benefits were
paid across the U.S. in 1989, on a few million individual
cases. About 40% of these actions are handled by lawyers, and
that share is highest in states such as California, Texas and
Florida that encourage creative case-making. Though
profitable for the lawyers and doctors who land a good one,
such cases have not been a ticket to the biggest lawsuit
jackpot of all, the jury verdict to punish financially a
"deep-pocket" defendant. Not until now.
   The ADA turned the injured worker into the disabled
worker, tying his remedies to civil-rights law. And the new
version of that followed on with a schedule of punitive
damages ranging up to $300,000 for large employers. That is
now what an unhappy and arguably ailing employee can mean to
the boss.
   As Mr. Pimentel realizes, not many cases will make it that
far. The workers' comp bar, though as aggressive as any in
the land, is not usually where you find the Melvin Bellis or
Philip Corboys, and a lot of marginal litigation can be
expected. But so, too, can a lot of $25,000 settlements as
corporate counsel decides not to risk a trial.
   Here's how trouble may arrive under the new law, which is
effective in July:
   A company may treat a workers' comp filing as part of the
termination process, with no thought to bringing the claimant
back. He may be considered a risk of harm to himself or
others. His doctor's letter typically suggests this; "loss of
earnings capacity" means a bigger award. To this, ADA will
add "a cup of tea at the Mad Hatter's party," says Mr.
Pimentel: After the comp case is settled, the two sides may
switch arguments, the claimant maintaining he can return in
some capacity and the company preferring he stay away.
   ADA will require the employer to take "reasonable" steps
to accommodate the newfound disability. If a warehouseman's
injury prevents his lifting goods from the ground up, perhaps
a machine could assist, or stocking duties could be found
that allow him to remain upright. Is the task he can no
longer perform an essential or only marginal part of the job?
"If you blew me away on a marginal function, you lose right
away," says Mr. Pimentel.
   "Reasonable accommodation" means reassigning a comp
claimer elsewhere in the company if there's anything else he
can do. Mr. Pimentel thinks this will mean mandatory
placements, ahead of outside applicants (minorities, maybe?)
for those other posts. So, the warehouse casualty may be
imposed on the production manager. If nothing is available at
the same plant site, he might even have to be received by a
different division of the same corporation. The interpretive
regulations of ADA aren't yet clear and probably will have to
be hammered out in court, when employers think it is worth
the costs of finding out the limits of the law.
   Also subject to clarification is ADA's effect on hiring
procedures. Apparently the practice of inquiring about past
workers' comp claims is out: It's the same as asking about a
disability. What if an applicant hides his condition, is
hired and then requests accommodation?
   Managers can expect more frequently to face the fact of
paying off a claimant, then incurring the expense of
retrofitting a job for the same individual. Currently,
companies that settle on, say, $15,000 for a loss of 62
degrees of turning radius in a right arm "assume this negates
their responsibility to ever see your smiling face again,"
Mr. Pimentel says. No longer.
   He argues that however in the dark employers may be about
their new obligation, the attorneys for their workers' comp
insurers -- to whom claims are routinely turned over -- are
even more in need of tutoring. Faced heretofore with an
apparently bogus filing, an insurer might have ultimately
found a nominal link between condition and job, say 15%, in
order to dispense with the employee and his lawyer. Now,
armed with that substantiation, a malingerer "just became an
individual with a disability," says Mr. Pimentel.
   Again, he believes most injury claims are honest and that
those employees are handled "in a much more discriminatory
way than people who come in applying for a job." The Human
Resources Department isn't responsible; "mostly, you've got a
safety director saying, `I don't want this joker back.'" An
exception, he suggests, is Houston Lighting  Power (a
client), where staff consultant Lorenzo Rodriguez reports
that an effort to reincorporate workers suffering long-term
disabilities, begun four years ago, cut 70% in indemnity
costs for the self-insured concern from 1989 to 1990.
   Messrs. Pimentel and Rodriguez argue that the meter
usually starts running when a worker is laid up at home,
unable to get his boss or anyone else to answer a technical
question about his benefits. He sees a commercial on daytime
or late-night TV for a lawyer and the rest is history. A
little corporate solicitude early on, this view holds, can
prevent alienation from ever setting in. The employee can be
back before his case ever comes to adjudication. If he's
truly a no-good, the company at least will have established
that he refused a bona-fide reassignment.
   Clearly, that kind of personnel push entails expense, and
the new or temporary postings aren't going to delight
everyone, either. But it is a tactical alternative to relying
on the mercy (or good judgment) of the courts in the ever --
more uncertain arena of torts. Endlessly adaptable, U.S.
business likely will so choose. "Don't take chances" is a
policy lawmakers demand.