Ex-Drexel Mergers Chief Is Main Investor
   In Memorex, Cole National Refinancings
   ----
   By George Anders
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
In a Securities and Exchange Commission filing, Apollo and
a related group said they own 25.2 million Memorex shares.
Apollo had been a major Memorex junkbond holder; it said it
bought the Memorex shares Feb. 18, as part of a restructuring
of the company's $1.3 billion in debt.
   Memorex Telex, a maker of computer disk drives and a
provider of computer services, had been controlled by New
York investor Eli Jacobs. In the restructuring, ownership of
the company was handed over to its creditors in exchange for
debt relief. The restructuring cut Memorex's debt to about
$775 million, said David Faulkner, the company's vice
chairman.
   Memorex Telex stock was quoted yesterday at $1.4375 a
share in over-the-counter trading, giving the Apollo stake a
market value of $36 million. Apollo officials said they also
hold a major stake in Memorex Telex's new bonds.
   Mr. Faulkner said Apollo executives will get two seats on
Memorex's new five-member board. A third seat will be held by
a representative of Trans World Airlines Chairman Carl Icahn.
Mr. Icahn is a frequent dabbler in junk-bond investing; he
also had bought large blocks of Memorex bonds before the
restructuring was completed, allowing him to emerge as an
owner of about 15% of Memorex's stock.
   Memorex has been operating without a permanent chief
executive for some time, and Apollo executives said the
company will need to fill that spot quickly. Still, Mr.
Faulkner said he doesn't expect Apollo will seek to control
the company's day-to-day operations. "I think they're looking
at this as a long-term investment," he said.
   At Cole National, Apollo emerges with about a 40% stake in
the Cleveland-based operator of optical and gift stores.
Cole, which underwent successive leveraged buy-outs in 1984
and 1987, had labored under a heavy debt load.
   In its restructuring, Cole National shrank its debt to
less than $200 million from more than $400 million, and
handed over most ownership in the company to creditors. Cole
National also is granting three seats on its seven-member
board to Apollo representatives.
   Cole National was one of the few sizable companies to
restructure its debts without needing to file for Chapter 11
bankruptcy protection from creditors. The reason, according
to investment banker Dean Kehler, a partner at Argosy Group,
was that its bonds were held by a relatively small group of
creditors, and its basic operations remained relatively
healthy throughout the restructuring process.
   ---
   Corrections  Amplifications
                                                                                                       

   GIORGIO RONCHI is chief executive officer of Memorex Telex
N.V. Yesterday's edition incorrectly said the post was
vacant.
   (WSJ March 12, 1992)