A Painless Way to Cut Long-Term Interest Rates
   ----
   By Donald G.M. Coxe
Suddenly, the shape of the yield curve (an imaginary line
connecting all Treasury rates from 3-month treasury bills to
30-year bonds) is the hot bond topic. Steep yield curves --
representing a big difference in rates between short and long
bonds -- are a sign that bond investors are requiring a steep
inflation premium. Conversely, flat yield curves are a sign
investors are unworried about inflation. It was the steepness
of the yield curve that led Fed Governor Wayne Angell to
dissent from the Fed's Dec. 20 decision to cut the discount
rate to 3 1/2%. Mr. Angell feared that yet another cut in the
short-term rate would rekindle inflation fears.
   Mr. Angell was right to be troubled by the stickiness of
long bond rates. Recessions usually flatten yield curves,
because bond investors, seeing inflation and interest rates
falling, eagerly lock in higher long-term yields. This time,
investors are disinclined to tie up their funds in 30-year
bonds. Why, they reason, should they rush to long bonds when
the Treasury will have to come up with ever-greater offerings
to fund Washington's deficits?
   Treasury Secretary Nicholas Brady has mused publicly that
the answer to high rates on long bonds could be to fund the
$399 billion deficit almost entirely with shorter-term bonds.
That would, he reasoned, create a shortage of long bonds, and
presumably, a flatter yield curve.
   But, as critics noted, the Treasury is responsible for
setting the overall average term of the nation's debt. It
would be irresponsible to shorten the term unduly at a time
of historically low short-term rates. Rates are likely to be
higher when those securities mature, forcing the Treasury to
refinance them at higher, maybe substantially higher, rates
whose interest costs will add to future budget deficits.
   There is a better way to flatten the yield curve. The
Treasury should sell new bonds exclusively to the biggest
bondbuyer in the world, a buyer that needs to increase the
average term in its portfolio, and a buyer will actually
lower future taxes by maximizing its yield: the Social
Security Trust Fund.
   Social Security is already the biggest holder of federal
debt, and its share grows weekly. Actuaries estimate the fund
will have a positive cash flow for at least 14 years, which
means its trustees don't need to worry about the market price
of their holdings. The fund has, according to projections,
more than $1 billion a week to invest, and it restricts
itself to government-issued securities.
   When it was established in 1983, after half-a-century of
"pay as you go," the fund was modelled on the Canada Pension
Plan. The Canada Pension Plan is the biggest bondholder in
Canada. The plan has been operating its fund since 1966, and
its relatively high earnings have meant that costs have
stayed remarkably close to projections. The Canada Pension
Plan buys only long-term bonds. And it is a fact that the
Canadian yield curve has not been as steep as the U.S. curve
in recent years, despite massive Canadian fiscal problems.
   For reasons that have never been made clear, the Social
Security Trust Fund did not in the end follow the CPP
yield-maximizing investment model. Instead of limiting itself
to long bonds that would fund its long-term obligations at
optimized returns, Social Security invests across the yield
curve, which means that much of its current cash flow is
invested in the lower yielding investments appropriate for
bond mutual funds and private individuals.
   If Social Security directed its entire cash flow to long
bonds, it would need to buy more bonds each year than the
Treasury would be issuing. It would then move into the open
market, scooping up offerings on a huge scale. Within a few
years it would own virtually all the long bonds outstanding.
That would not be rigging the market: Social Security would
simply be doing what most private-sector bond-based pension
plans try to do -- achieving some match between the duration
of its assets and its liabilities.
   Since Social Security is not a fully funded pension plan
-- that is, since its investment income is not sufficient to
pay all its obligations -- the higher revenues will reduce
the size of the contribution that future taxpayers will have
to make.
   Such a program would mean that the Treasury would not let
Wall Street bid for new long bonds: They would be sold to the
fund free of commission at the average yield on outstanding
issues. The fund would still be paying market prices, but
there would be no new long bonds available until 2016 at the
earliest.
   If Wall Street heard that it would not see any new long
bonds for many years, a buying panic would ensue, and the
yield curve would flatten. Instead of a ski-slopeshaped yield
curve, a humpbacked curve would emerge, with the peak at
about nine years. Mortgage rates would fall; corporate bond
rates would fall; municipal bonds rates would fall. And
Social Security costs would fall, which means likely future
deficits would also fall.
   Who loses? Investors in mortgage-backed securities would
find their incomes cut. Wall Street would lose some of its
profits on Treasury refundings. Rates in the intermediate
area of the curve would rise somewhat, to the detriment of
those borrowing to buy cars. On balance, however, there would
be far more winners than losers.
   This strategy could be implemented by the Social Security
trustees this week. No new laws are required. One phone call
from the president to the committee chairman could do the
job.
   ---
   Mr. Coxe is a portfolio strategist in New York. He served
for six years on the Canada Pension Plan advisory committee
and for five years on the Royal Commission on the Status of
Pensions in Ontario.