Technology  Medicine:
   Studies Find Likely Source in the Brain
   For Substance Linked to Alzheimer's
   ----
   By David Stipp
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Beta amyloid forms clumps that litter the brains of people
with Alzheimer's disease, and many researchers now believe
that it's the central culprit in the disease. But what causes
beta amyloid deposits to form?
   Researchers previously have shed light on that question in
studies on the so-called amyloid precursor protein, or APP.
Formed normally in brain cells, APP contains beta amyloid as
a subsection. Scientists believe beta amyloid is unleashed
when certain scissor-like substances, called proteases, cut
APP in just the right way to release the beta amyloid
fragment. But how that could happen has been unclear -- the
only protease known to cut APP snips it in the middle of the
beta amyloid section, and thus isn't thought to form beta
amyloid-containing fragments that could trigger the disease.
   The latest studies, led by Steven G. Younkin at Case
Western Reserve University in Cleveland, suggest that a
second protein breakdown process within cells can cut APP in
a way that releases beta amyloid. In one set of experiments,
the researchers analyzed subparts of APP formed in brain
cells and found pieces containing the entire beta amyloid
section.
   In other experiments, the researchers found evidence that
the beta amyloid-containing fragments are formed in lysosomes
-- small sacks within cells long known to be places where
unneeded or faulty proteins are shredded. The studies,
reported in today's issue of the journal Science, suggest
that by focusing on the protein-breakdown processes in
lysosomes, scientists may be able find out how the disease
starts. Once that's known, "there might be a lot of ways to
intervene" to prevent the untoward cutting of APP, said Dr.
Younkin.
   Some scientists, however, aren't convinced lysosome
breakdown of APP holds the key to the Alzheimer's mystery.
The studies by Dr. Younkin's team "are good research," said
Dmitry Goldgaber, an amyloid expert at the State University
of New York at Stony Brook. "But they don't exclude other
pathways to generate" beta amyloid. Moreover, recent advances
on the amyloid front haven't been reconciled with research on
other aspects of Alzheimer's disease, such as studies
suggesting there are abnormally high levels of aluminum in
the brains of people with the disorder.
   In any case, researchers led by Charles Glabe at the
University of California at Irvine recently have found
evidence that beta amyloid fragments stick together in
aggregates that resist breakdown in lysosomes. Like rocks
lobbed into a paper shredder, these aggregates may eventually
cause cumulative damage to cells that kill them, releasing
pent up beta amyloid to form the telltale brain clumps of the
disease. Thus, another way to arrest the disease may be to
develop drugs that interfere with the aggregation of amyloid
fragments after they're formed, said Dr. Glabe.