Westinghouse
   Shrinks Credit
   Unit Further
   ----
   By Gabriella Stern
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Westinghouse is also expected to cut its 35-cent-a-share
dividend by 50%. Company insiders and analysts said directors
probably will take that action when they meet in late
January. In addition, Westinghouse is leaning toward a $500
million public offering of preferred equity redemption
cumulative stock, with a Morgan Stanley & Co. Inc. unit
leading the offering.
   Separately, Westinghouse common stock rose when a
previously bearish stock analyst with County Natwest
Securities Inc. upgraded his forecast for the company.
Nicholas P. Heymann, an analyst who has issued pessimistic
projections for the past year, changed his rating to
"accumulate," which is just below "buy," from
"underperforming," which is just above "sell." In late
composite trading yesterday on the New York Stock Exchange,
Westinghouse shares were quoted at $19.75, up $1.625 a share,
on very heavy volume of 3.9 million shares.
   Mr. Heymann attributed his change to a belief that the
company's new $6 billion line of credit, coupled with an
improving national economy, will breathe new life into
Westinghouse stock. Mr. Heymann increased his estimate for
first-quarter net to 40 cents a share from 25 cents a share,
and his forecast for the year to $2 a share from $1.50.
Westinghouse wouldn't comment.
   Mr. Heymann acknowledged that Westinghouse's credit unit
faces continued problems in its commercial real estate
portfolio. But he said hefty write-downs are unlikely in 1992
because the company will focus on selling off its healthier
assets. In 1993, he said, the company will have to contend
with its weaker loans but the economy will probably be
stronger by then, and huge write-downs won't be necessary. At
this time, $3 billion of the credit unit's $4.7 billion in
real estate assets are classified as non-performing, or not
paying current interest.
   Westinghouse management last month attempted to sell off
large chunks of the credit unit to General Electric Co., but
the deal fell through when GE proposed buying just a small
portion of the $9.7 billion portfolio.