International:
   Moody's Actions
   Are Causing a Stir
   In Swiss Banking
   ----
   By Nicholas Bray and Margaret Studer
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
Though the two other leading rating institutions, Standard
 Poor's Corp. and IBCA Ltd. of London, said they don't have
immediate plans to change their triple-A ratings for both
banks, market analysts said Moody's move is a blow to Swiss
banks generally.
   "They have always had a reputation of being absolutely the
top of the top," commented a bond trader at a leading U.S.
investment bank. "It's a psychological problem."
   Credit Suisse, a unit of CS Holding, is the third-largest
bank in Switzerland after Swiss Bank and Union Bank of
Switzerland. Now, only Union Bank of Switzerland retains a
triple-A rating from all three rating agencies.
   Moody's said its decision reflects concern over the
quality of loan portfolios at both Credit Suisse and Swiss
Bank. In addition, Moody's analyst John Kriz said, the rating
agency is worried about the effects on Swiss banks generally
of "a more challenging environment in Switzerland and
abroad."
   Credit Suisse had been under review by Moody's since Oct.
22, and although Moody's took an unusually long time to issue
its review, analysts said the downgrading didn't come as a
surprise.
   Credit Suisse officials said the downgrade won't affect
the bank's policies or capital costs.
   "We still belong to the most solid of internationally
active banks," said Credit Suisse spokesman Helmut Reincke.
"Moody's decision doesn't interfere with or affect our
business policy."
   Swiss Bank said it would argue that in its view "there
would be no grounds for changing its grading."
   In practical terms, market analysts say, Moody's
announcement probably will have only minimal effects on the
fundraising abilities of either bank. But it could knock
their share prices, which in both cases "are due for a
correction" after recent rises, says Sasha Serafimovski, an
analyst at Morgan Stanley in London.
   In London, CS Holding was quoted in late trading at 1,870
Swiss francs ($1,307.69), down from its close in Zurich of
1,930 swiss francs. Swiss Bank bearer shares were quoted at
298.50 Swiss francs, compared with their Zurich close of 311
Swiss francs.
   Credit Suisse's downgrading comes just as the bank is
expected to announce record profits for 1991, surpassing
1989's record net of 783 million Swiss francs.