Letters to the Editor:
   Arias Linked to Drugs? Ludicrous
Mr. Daremblum suggests that Mr. Arias's appearance before
the legislative commission investigating narco-trafficking
was an extraordinary event, when in fact appearances before
such commissions are common in Costa Rica's democratic
system. The statements by Mr. Arias and Costa Rica's current
president, Rafael Angel Calderon, are only two of many the
commission has received since its establishment in 1988,
during Mr. Arias's term in office. Moreover, anyone can
obtain a detailed transcript of the proceedings.
   Foreign citizens often contribute to Latin American
political activities. In fact, private contributions to
political parties, both from national and international
sources, are legal in Costa Rica and have always been
accepted in good faith when no reason has existed to question
the moral integrity of the contributor or the legality of the
funds.
   In the 1985 campaign, both Messrs. Calderon and Arias
received financial support from foreign sources. The finance
committee of the Arias campaign was always aware that its
contributors had never faced civil or criminal charges for
narco-related activities. The legislative commission
confirmed this fact through statements from Interpol and the
U.S. Justice Department.
   Mr. Daremblum once again misguides the reader when he
states that Costa Rican businessman Ricardo Alem had a
"worrisome background" in 1985, during the Arias electoral
campaign, and in January 1987, when he was appointed a
director of the Central American Bank of Economic
Integration's governing board. In November 1987, when the
Arias administration first received information that Mr. Alem
was making substantial bank deposits, it immediately demanded
his resignation. This occurred almost one year before Mr.
Alem was detained by Costa Rican authorities in 1988, while
President Arias was still in office.
   The altered videotape used in the commission's hearing,
and so malignantly referred to by Mr. Daremblum to establish
a supposed link between President Arias and Gen. Manuel
Antonio Noriega, actually corresponds to Mr. Arias's March
19, 1986, visit to the traditional David City Fair.
President-elect Arias had been invited to this event by
Panamanian President Erick Arturo del Valle, and was
accompanied by various members of his future cabinet, elected
congressmen, Costa Rican government officials and
representatives of the press.
   In 1986, no member of the Panamanian Revolutionary
Democratic Party (PRD) was accused of any misconduct, and the
government of Panama enjoyed full international recognition.
However, during the past electoral campaign of 1989-1990, the
Costa Rican press widely publicized the testimony of Jose
Blandon, a former Panamanian diplomat to the U.S. Mr. Blandon
testified before a U.S. Senate subcommittee about the PRD's
contributions to major Costa Rican parties during the 1985
campaign. Mr. Arias always admitted having received such
contributions.
   Rodrigo Madrigal Montealegre
   Professor
   Political Sciences Department
   University of Costa Rica
   San Jose, Costa Rica