Law:
   Texas Court Grants
   Last-Minute Stay
   In Lilly Prozac Case
   ----
   By Jonathan M. Moses
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The stay halts any action in the case until the state
Supreme Court decides whether Lilly must turn over the names
to lawyers for the family of Michael H. Biffle, who allegedly
committed suicide while under the influence of Prozac. Paul
Smith, a Dallas attorney representing the Biffles, said he
needs the doctors' names to fully investigate the effects of
Prozac.
   The FDA sought to intervene at the request of Lilly, said
Edward A. West, a spokesman for the Indianapolis-based drug
manufacturer.
   A spokeswoman for the FDA said she did not know of any
previous instance when the agency had intervened in a drug
liability lawsuit. But she added that the FDA has always been
concerned about the possibility of doctors' names being
revealed. The request to intervene, made in the form of a
letter to one of Lilly's lawyers, was signed by Dr. Carl C.
Peck, director of the FDA's Center for Drug Evaluation and
Research.
   Under the terms of an order issued last week by Justice
John M. Marshall, a Texas trial judge, Lilly had until today
to provide the names of doctors who prescribed Prozac and
voluntarily reported to Lilly or the FDA any adverse
reactions. Such reports are made over the market-life of a
drug. The order also covers the names of researchers who
conducted clinical trials and studies on Prozac. The FDA and
Lilly only make public the names of doctors who ran "pivotal"
studies, Mr. West said.
   Lilly had faced a $25 million default judgment if it had
failed to comply with Judge Marshall's order. The Supreme
Court ruling also stays Judge Marshall's order that Lilly pay
the plaintiffs lawyers more than $50,000 in sanctions for not
turning over the information in response to a previous order
last fall.
   Representatives for Lilly said the company has made
available to plaintiffs lawyers all the information provided
by doctors except for names or other information that could
be used to identify individuals. The judge's order does not
cover patient names.