LEISURE  ARTS:
   Art: a Pioneer of Abstraction
   ----
   By Jack Flam
Davis, who was born in 1892 and died in 1964, was one of
the pioneers of abstract painting in America. His career
coincides almost exactly with the first full impact of
modernism in this country, following the ground-breaking
Armory Show of 1913, which introduced artists such as
Matisse, Picasso and Duchamp to the American public. Although
"Stuart Davis: American Painter" is a very large exhibition,
it is also an absorbing and at times exhilarating one, which
evokes an especially vital and optimistic period in American
art. Of particular interest are the numerous murals that
Davis did from the 1930s on for a wide variety of public
places, ranging from radio stations and housing projects to
the men's room at Radio City Music Hall.
   Like other forward-looking American artists of his
generation, Davis was intent on both absorbing and freeing
himself from the great Europeans, and creating a kind of
painting that was specifically American in form as well as
subject. He started out as a realist associated with Robert
Henri and the Ashcan School, but was profoundly affected by
his experience of the 1913 Armory show. The pictures that
Davis painted during the next few years reflect his ongoing
struggle with the simplification of form and color that he so
admired in the European modernists.
   Although the influence of artists like Matisse, Picasso
and Bonnard was sometimes quite strong, Davis's brand of
modernism was not merely academic. Even when he worked in a
style that recalled someone else, his underlying vision was
refreshingly original and strongly felt. This is especially
apparent in his 1916-19 paintings, in which he seems to run
through almost the entire repertory of European modernism in
search of something that he could fashion into an American
voice. But in spite of their eclecticism, these pictures seem
based on the real experiences of Davis, whether their manner
evokes the curvilinear distortions of van Gogh, as in "Summer
House" of 1916, or exploits the intricate geometry of the
cubists, as in "Church Tower" of the same year.
   Davis's breakthrough came in the early 1920s, when he
began to use imagery taken from advertising. He also gave his
pictures a particularly American inflection with pictorial
equivalents for the rhythms he admired in jazz music. "Don't
emotionalize," he wrote in a notebook of the period. "Copy
the nature of the present-photography and advertisements,
tobacco cans and bags and tomato can labels." His decision to
make use of, rather than fight against, the imagery of crass
consumerism resulted in some of his most original works, such
as the celebrated images incorporating Lucky Strike cigarette
packages that he began to work on in 1921.
   Although Davis's point of departure was the geometrical
fragmentation of late cubism, he transformed the pictorial
language of that style into one that was thoroughly his own,
and distinctly American. "I do not belong to the human race,"
he wrote in 1921, "but am a product made by the American Can
Co. and the New York Evening Journal." Davis saw what he took
to be this quintessentially American situation as a source of
optimism rather than the opposite, and felt himself to be in
harmony with the down-to-earth aesthetics of the best
American poetry, from Walt Whitman to William Carlos
Williams.
   Among Davis's most innovative early abstract paintings
were the "Egg Beater" pictures he did in 1927-28. In them he
transformed a handful of everyday objects -- an electric fan,
a rubber glove and an eggbeater -- into dazzlingly
imaginative abstract compositions. Seen together as they are
at the Met, these pictures mutually reinforce each other with
great verve. They also set the terms for much of the rest of
the work in the show. For although Davis's pictures during
the next four decades would be quite varied, and quite
abstract, most of them were firmly rooted in real objects or
actual experiences. Like the "Egg Beaters," his later
pictures mixed sassy irreverence with high seriousness and
combined an oddly literal sort of underlying realism with
imaginative arrangements of geometrical forms, strong
rhythmic impulses and brash colors.
   Davis also loved to spice up his titles with puns, snappy
alliterations and antic local references. One of his
marvelously musical 1938 mural compositions is called "Swing
Landscape." A wonderfully brash crazy quilt of a picture done
in 1952 has its title emblazoned on it in big block letters:
"Rapt at Rappaport's" -- probably a double reference to a toy
store and a dairy restaurant, both well-known fixtures of New
York life.
   Although Davis's social optimism flagged in later years,
he was able to sustain a high level of artistic energy right
to the end of his life. Over the years, he developed an
increasingly syncopated, jigsaw puzzle-like complexity in his
compositions, turned up the voltage on his colors, and
frequently achieved a monumental scale even when he was
working on smallish canvases. This is a show that holds your
interest right to the end.
   The exhibition is accompanied by a first-rate catalog,
edited by curator Lowrie S. Sims. It will be up through Feb.
16 and then at the San Francisco Museum of Modern Art from
March 26 through June 7.