Politics  Policy:
   Byrd Says Defense Savings Should Go
   For Domestic Programs, Not Tax Cuts
   ----
   By Jackie Calmes
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
"I'm opposed to using defense savings to pay for a tax
cut," Sen. Byrd said in an interview. He said any revenue
loss from a tax cut should be made up by raising taxes on the
wealthiest taxpayers.
   Sen. Byrd's view is critical to the coming debates on the
fiscal 1993 budget, as he tightly controls the committee that
sets spending for defense and domestic programs. Other
senators -- notably Majority Leader George Mitchell (D.,
Maine) and Chairman Lloyd Bentsen (D., Texas) of the
tax-writing Finance Committee -- have called for a large
peace dividend to be used, at least in part, to pay for their
promised tax cuts for the middle class. Sen. Byrd's stance
illustrates the kinds of hurdles Democrats face just within
their own party, never mind with President Bush, as they try
to draft a tax bill.
   The senator's approach is closer to that of Democrats in
the House. Yesterday, Ways and Means Committee Chairman Dan
Rostenkowski (D., Ill.), the House's chief tax-writer,
reiterated on ABC-TV's "This Week with David Brinkley" his
call for higher tax rates on upper-income taxpayers to pay
for a tax cut for others. He also predicted that Congress and
the Bush administration would seek to combine a tax cut for
the middle class with business-side tax breaks for equipment
investments, real estate and capital gains -- all aimed at
arousing the economy. "What I think you're going to have
arguments about is to what degree do we do these things,"
Rep. Rostenkowski said.
   Like Sen. Byrd, House Democrats generally want defense
savings transferred to domestic programs. But Republicans
also say defense cuts should be devoted to cutting taxes.
President Bush, in his fiscal 1993 budget proposal to be
released next week, is expected to call for about $50 billion
more in Pentagon cuts, with the savings dedicated to reducing
the deficit or cutting taxes.
   "What good is a tax cut to people who are standing on the
unemployment line?" Sen. Byrd asked. He added, "I can think
of no better way to find a quick, effective stimulus to the
economy as plowing investment into the nation's highways,
bridges, waterways, water and sewer systems, housing."
   The appropriations chairman said he had no proposals yet
for how much to cut defense. But he argues that at least $60
billion is needed for domestic programs in the next three
years through fiscal 1995 just to keep pace with inflation.
And, he added, "What we need are real increases." Health-care
proposals alone -- another promise from both parties -- will
cost immense sums, he noted.
   Though Sen. Byrd disputed the effectiveness of a tax cut
for stimulating the economy, he said he is not opposed to
reducing taxes on middle-income taxpayers as a way to shift
the overall burden to upper-income individuals. "There needs
to be relief to the middle-income families, the working
families of this country, but it should pay for itself out of
the tax system," he said. "The burden could be shifted to
those who are most able to pay."