LEISURE  ARTS -- On Sports:
   Mike  Co., Kings of the Palace
   ----
   By Frederick C. Klein
But he added, "that's hypothetical this season, because we
haven't had any valleys yet."
   The discussion took place Sunday afternoon in the bowels
of the Detroit Pistons' home arena here. The Bulls had just
scraped by the hosts, 87-85, in a game that was played more
to Piston specifications than to that of the winged-footed
Chicagoans. This is to say that if floor burns counted as
points, both teams' tallies would have topped 100.
   The win was the 33rd for the reigning National Basketball
Association champions in 38 outings, seven more than anybody
else in the league. If the Bulls continue at that .868 clip
throughout the regular campaign, they'll win 71.2 games of
82. No NBA team has ever won that many.
   In fact, no NBA team has won 71 times, or 70. And even if
the Bulls had lost Sunday, they'd have been on a 69-win pace.
That's the record, set by the 1972 L.A. Lakers, when Wilt
Chamberlain was still setting records on the court.
   Chicago's 1991-92 odyssey has set heads shaking and
tongues wagging throughout the NBA as the season nears the
halfway point. "It's a team with no weaknesses -- they have
everything you could want," raves Ron Rothstein. He had less
than everything when he coached the Miami Heat the past few
seasons, which is why he's a Piston broadcaster now.
   Continues Rothstein: "They've got good players at every
position, including their bench, and great players at three.
I'm talking about Michael Jordan, Scottie Pippen and Horace
Grant. It takes three great players to win an NBA title. The
Bulls did it with two last year -- Jordan and Pippen -- but
Jordan is so good he was worth two alone. This year Grant has
joined them, and they're up there all alone."
   John Bach, a Bulls assistant who has coached for 41 years,
pretty much agrees. "At the end of last season, after we'd
done so well in the playoffs {15 wins in 17 games}, we
coaches asked each other what we'd do for an encore, but
surprisingly the encore has turned out better than the show,"
he says. "We've shown progress in every area, but especially
on defense. And if you do that well, you can play in
anybody's backyard."
   The Auburn Hills Palace, an arena built with the
luxury-box crowd in mind, is a pretty spiffy backyard, but
its occupants, basketball's erstwhile bad boys, do what they
can to be inhospitable. Until last season, the Pistons -- NBA
champs in 1989 and '90 -- were the Bullees in the
relationship between the two teams, but Chicago turned that
around with a vengeance with a four-game Eastern Conference
final sweep, the last two victories coming here.
   The Pistons weren't exactly, or even approximately,
gracious in defeat; their Dennis Rodman lives in videotape
infamy for a nasty shove he gave Pippen during the series,
and their starters stalked off the court before the final
buzzer in game four to avoid touching palms with their
conquerors. The Bulls have returned those sentiments
rhetorically and, on occasion, physically.
   It thus was no surprise that Sunday's contest, the Bulls'
first here since the '91 playoffs, was more intense than your
typical midseason NBA exercise. The Pistons had won 12 of 14
previous outings, putting their outlook as well as their
record on the plus side (22-16). And Coach Chuck Daly did
what NBA coaches do when they want a win especially, which is
accuse the refs in print of favoring the other team (the
Bulls were being "protected defensively," is how he put it).
   Piston fans did their part, booing the visitors even
during warmups, for heaven's sake, and making it clear they
are not on the "We Like Mike" -- as in Jordan -- bandwagon.
The nastiest of their digs was a sign that read "Hair
Jordan," mocking poor Michael's baldishness with a
Bozo-the-Clownish caricature.
   The first quarter seemed to support Daly's judgment that
the refs, like the Supreme Court justices, read the
newspapers. They called seven personal fouls against the
Bulls to two against the Pistons. That and a 18-5 rebounding
edge contributed to a 31-20 Detroit lead. But the Bulls
regrouped so well that they led, 68-65, when the fourth
period began.
   Things got a bit weird thereafter. Detroit held the Bulls
scoreless, as in zero, for the first 6 1/2 minutes of the
quarter and went ahead by seven points as the Palace rocked.
Then the Bulls went on a 15-7 run to lead, 83-82, with less
than two minutes remaining.
   The multi-talented Jordan, who led his team in scoring
(with 34 points) even though the Pistons denied him the showy
slams for which he's renowned, then secured the win by
stealing the ball from Isiah Thomas, the veteran Piston
guard, and making a dash for the basket that was stopped only
by Thomas's embrace. Jordan made both his free throws, and
the last minute was played out amid the usual
intentional-unintentional fouls and timeouts without number.
The contest ended with Thomas intentionally missing a free
throw with two seconds left, and the blade-like Pippen
swatting the rebound toward midcourt. Great player No. 3, the
aforementioned Grant, led Chicago with 12 rebounds.
   That the Bulls won despite a season-low scoring total was
seen as significant by some of their number. "We withstood
their defense better than they withstood ours," noted Jordan.
   It is further notable that, across the way, some Pistons
were smiling, not sulking. Said Thomas: "Our effort shows
we're making strides as a team." Said forward Orlando
Woolridge: "A lot of encouragement comes from a game like
this."
   You gotta be pretty good when your opponents take heart
after losing to you.