LEISURE  ARTS -- Bookshelf:
   Far From Plain Sailing
   ----
   By Lee Lescaze
Now, the pressures of Mr. Stone's concerns fall upon Owen
Browne, an unlikely single-handed racer seeking escape in
middle age from a life of superficial satisfaction and inner
discontent.
   In "Outerbridge Reach" (Ticknor  Fields, 409 pages,
$21.95), Mr. Stone is asking, among other questions: Do
Americans still care about the truth?
   Do they expect the truth from their politicians? From
their heroes? Or, after prolonged exposure to public lying,
are they as cynical as the novel's bitter character Ron
Strickland, who sees fakery everywhere? "Everybody trims," he
says.
   He is so sure of it that he wants to make a film about
Browne in which succumbing to the temptation to lie is less
important than refusing to live comfortably with the result.
In Strickland's mind, that refusal is a form of modern
heroism.
   Such a movie would, of course, only echo "Outerbridge
Reach," the fine novel Mr. Stone has already written.
   Browne is an earnest 1968 Annapolis graduate who does
public relations and sales for a boat maker. He is drafted
into the race by his company after its owner, who intended to
enter the race himself, disappears amid financial scandal.
   When the opportunity arises, Browne and his wife, Anne,
both 40ish, are bored with their lives, eager for change but
unsure where to find it. Anne dulls her anxiety with alcohol.
Owen, a man immediately recognizable by any teenager as
hopelessly square, frets vaguely that post-Vietnam America
has failed him both as a community and as a cause. Children
don't obey their parents. Virtue isn't its own reward.
   Browne had played safe and been sorry for years. He feels
he has been waiting for a challenge that hasn't come. The
race would change his life. It would make him feel more
alive, and also give him fame and an opportunity to write
books. He tries to explain his desire to race to Anne. "
`Sometimes,' he said, `it's as though whatever I'm feeling is
completely artificial. I have these highs and lows and I
don't think they attach to me at all. That isn't life.' "
   Anne knows he isn't yachtsman enough to handle the race.
But she shares his desire for a different life. What's more,
she can't be the one to stop him. If she did, "She would
always have stood between him and the sky-blue world of
possibility. She would be responsible for every boring,
repetitious day as things went on and the two of them grew
ever more middle-aged, disappointed and past hope. Their
lives would be like everyone else's and it would always be
her fault."
   The beginning of "Outerbridge Reach," as Mr. Stone
introduces the Brownes, their friends and Strickland, has
moments of artificiality and careless writing, as in its
treatment of the missing tycoon and his business scandal.
   But once Browne is in the grip of the dread and longing
that impel him to undertake his voyage, Mr. Stone is
masterly, alternating brief chapters of Owen at sea and Anne
at home as the novel races to its conclusion. The high stakes
are clearly drawn. Two boat-yard men propose a bet on
Browne's chances. "My bet would be this," one says: "Either
he wins or he dies."
   Browne's race begins in menacing circumstances. He cuts
his leg, grows feverish and fears tetanus. But there is no
honorable way to turn back. Afflictions pile up. Flying
insects blanket his boat. Winds rise and fall. He almost
loses his boat through folly. His mind rambles.
   His links with the world grow fainter. Anne and Owen's
first ship-to-shore phone call goes badly. Owen decides to
avoid talking to Anne.
   But Strickland stalks her. His films have always
demonstrated his talent for showing his subjects' failures
and weaknesses. Now he prowls after Anne, still seeking shots
for his film, but more avidly desiring her.
   Strickland has taken the words of a grossly overweight,
pustulous hardware clerk and turned them into a new sour
joke. Asked why he wouldn't enter a race like Browne's, the
clerk replies: "Life is sweet." Strickland can't repeat the
line often enough.
   Because, of course, it is the lack of sweetness that has
driven the Brownes and Strickland into the desperate corners
they now inhabit. Alone at sea, there is plenty of time to
contemplate the life lived and the life imagined and the
risks in changing one for the other. Browne cracks.
Self-invention, he discovers, can run out of control.
   At the end of "Outerbridge Reach," Strickland remarks that
Browne's big problem was his honesty. For Mr. Stone, though,
that cynical view of Browne's failure is too simple. Anne
can't bear what has happened. She makes sure that Strickland
will never make his film that would find a shabby modern
Everyman in Owen's sad story. The novel ends with Anne
planning her own effort at redemption -- or is the right word
immolation?