LEISURE  ARTS:
   Liberace's Legacy: `Piano Princess' Linda Genteel
   ----
   By Amy Gamerman
"This is called Mozart's Top 10," said Ms. Genteel, whose
fuchsia sequined gown trimmed in black marabou feathers
outglitzed the barmaids' slave-girl costumes. "This is what
Mozart would have done if there had been disco in 1800."
   What followed was an exercise in "flamenco piano" -- a
rapid-fire performance in which Ms. Genteel's fingers moved
so fast they seemed to roll over the keys. Now and then she
played cross-handed, or took one hand off the keyboard
altogether.
   Mozart would have been impressed, astonished even, not
only by Ms. Genteel but by the sight of her drummer, Ray
Nunzi, rattatting away behind her.
   "You're wonderful, darling]" shouted a large man in the
audience, one beefy hand wrapped around a Heineken, as Ms.
Genteel wrapped up Mozart's Top 10 and launched into
"Somewhere in Time" -- all the while shooting seductive looks
over her bare shoulder at the Oasis's few patrons.
   Welcome to classical music, casino-style. The 28-year-old
Ms. Genteel has carved out an unlikely turf for her soupedup
piano skills, playing her renditions of Strauss, Liszt and
"Phantom of the Opera" (the whole score) in places where
"music" is what happens when three fruits match up in line.
   "I think three jackpots went off last night in the middle
of `Clair de Lune,'" said Ms. Genteel over lunch. "It really
ruined the song."
   But she's not complaining: Ms. Genteel knows those slot
machines are what keep her in sequins. At the tender age of
19 she made her professional debut in the Rhapsody Room of
Las Vegas's Tropicana, and she's been playing casinos ever
since. Before signing on with The Donald for an unlimited
engagement here, she was a fixture at such Vegas
establishments as the Golden Nugget and the Mirage.
   It seems an unlikely career for a wealthy lawyer's
daughter who grew up in Pacific Palisades, Calif., a stone's
throw from Lawrence Welk and Ronald Reagan. She learned to
play the piano from a teach-yourself course when she was
eight, and was soon competing. But bad nerves ruled out a
career in classical music.
   "I would just fall apart in front of an audience," she
said. "The classical world is very difficult. . . . You can't
do anything creative or unusual and you can't improvise. I
quit playing the piano altogether at 16."
   Disheartened, Ms. Genteel ran away to Hawaii for a few
months. An abortive acting and modeling career followed. "I
did some bit parts in movies and realized I had no acting
talent whatsoever," she said. Which movies? "I can't even
say, they were so horrible. I wouldn't want anyone to ever
see the movies I was in -- they did play on cable."
   Then Ms. Genteel met her destiny -- in the shape of a man
wearing a lot of sequins and a bucket of hairspray. On a trip
to Las Vegas, an erstwhile fiance took her backstage to meet
Liberace. Ms. Genteel, 18 at the time, performed a work by
Debussy and "Hooked on Classics" ("it's like disco
classical," she explained).
   "We had a long talk," she recalled. "He said, `I play for
the average person, not the critic. They're there to enjoy
the music. . . . If you want to make a living you must learn
how to play popular music.'"
   The two stayed in touch, and in the meantime Ms. Genteel
made a serious study of her mentor's career. Like Liberace,
she sent out postcards to Vegas entertainment directors with
her picture and the legend "Have You Heard of Linda Gentile?"
Later, she changed her name -- on Liberace's recommendation.
"He thought it sounded too much like gentile," she said.
   Her copycat methods paid off: One of those postcards
landed her the job at the Tropicana. And in 1985, after gigs
with her mentor at the Las Vegas Hilton, Ms. Genteel joined
Liberace -- along with five other young pianists -- in
concert at Radio City Music Hall.
   Since then, Ms. Genteel has taken lots of other pages from
Liberace's book. She has a closet full of glittery costumes,
although no furs: "I'm kind of against killing animals for
aesthetic purposes," she said. Like Liberace, she has owned
several flashy cars: Her 1988 black Corvette with a piano
keyboard airbrushed on the hood is parked outside the hotel,
and she is trying to get it moved into the Taj's lobby
(Liberace used to drive his flashy cars on stage). But don't
look for a candelabra on her piano.
   "I try not to copy too much from Liberace," she said. "I
don't use a candelabra, and there are a lot of people in this
industry who do." Instead, she offers flamenco piano.
   "It's kind of my gimmick and Liberace thought it was very
unique," Ms. Genteel said. "The real fast thing where it
looks like my hand is rolling, that's flamenco piano. It
would be like tremolo on the guitar. That's a special
technique where they repeat one note and the other fingers do
something else."
   And then there's her trademark rose, which she often holds
in her right hand while tackling works such as Chopin's
"Polonaise" in A minor with the left.
   "In the middle of a show if I'm getting tired I'll do the
one-handed trick," she said, a legacy of past bouts with
tendinitis. Which is where the rose comes in. "My hand was
just hanging there and they think you're handicapped, so the
rose kind of became my trademark."
   But Ms. Genteel's most noticeable trademark is something
Liberace never had -- a shapely 5-foot-8 body that looks
great in a tight dress, and even better in a bikini or fancy
lingerie. Ms. Genteel has been photographed clad in all
three: reclining on a piano bench or draped over the hood of
her Corvette. And if her nonmusical charms are what bring in
the lounge lizards, all the better. "That's why I dress in
very showy gowns," she said. "I don't really care. My
ultimate goal is, I will sell millions of records."
   And selling is something Ms. Genteel works very, very hard
at. After repeated snubs from the record industry, she
started Piano Princess Productions, a mail-order business. In
addition to cassette tapes and compact discs, she sells
videotapes of her performance at the 7-Eleven National
Coalition Convention, as well as Piano Princess T-shirts and
sweatshirts, motivational tapes with titles such as "Linda's
Flamenco Secrets" and "Liberace's Stylings" -- and of course,
signed photos.
   Anyone who signs the guest book she keeps on her piano
gets a letter and a hot-pink catalog. A thank-you note
follows every order: Ms. Genteel writes them on her day off.
"Every month I mail out about 5,000 letters to my customers,"
she said.
   That's not all. During Operation Desert Storm, she had a
poster made of herself posed in a glittery red gown with her
Desert Storm car -- a red Mercedes emblazoned with the Stars
and Stripes -- and sent it to thousands to troops posted at a
nearby Air Force base. "I had a lot of guys coming into my
show," she said. "I did a stars-and-stripes medley."
   A classical stars-and-stripes medley, because in the
Genteel vocabulary, classical can mean almost anything. "This
is `Memories' from `Cats' -- the `Bolero' version," she
announced at one point. Later, she declared, "I'm going to do
`Don't Cry for Me Argentina' but I'm going to do it with
`Clair de Lune.'" Her "Chopsticks" -- a relic of her Liberace
days -- is crossbred with Liszt's "Hungarian Rhapsody." She
also takes requests.
   "Howabout some Led Zeppelin?" someone yelled.
   Oh well. A serious musician can feel a little
underappreciated in the Oasis Lounge -- those $100 tips from
high rollers notwithstanding. But Ms. Genteel takes it all in
stride. When her "Memories" medley met with wolf whistles,
she smiled.
   "I'm really honored," she said to the whistler. "But what
would you do in Carnegie Hall?"