What's News --
   World-Wide
Bush, winner of all GOP contests to date, said he believed
Buchanan's consistent 30% showing was a protest against
economic hard times, and said, "The economy will turn
around."
   ---
   The House rejected Bush's 1993 budget, which proposed
cutting military spending to $291.6 billion. The 370-42 vote
sets the stage for passage of a Democratic plan, which makes
steeper cuts in the Pentagon budget, to $287.2 billion, to
fund education, health and other domestic initiatives.
   ---
   The Bush administration estimated that Russia can expect
to qualify for about $4 billion in assistance once it becomes
a member of the IMF. Treasury Secretary Brady offered the
rough estimate as he warned Congress that the consequences of
failing to approve more financial support for the IMF would
be "extremely adverse."
                                                                                                       

   Russia tightened nuclear safety regulations for plants
operating throughout the former Soviet republic. Officials
announced the action hours after fire broke out at a nuclear
power facility and forced the shutdown of a reactor in the
town of Balakovo, on the Volga River. The Itar-Tass news
agency said no radiation was released.
   ---
   U.N. chief Boutros-Ghali told Security Council members
that Libya hasn't yet agreed to hand over agents accused of
the 1988 bombing of a Pan Am jet. Meanwhile, a sanctions
resolution against Libya is being drafted by Britain, France
and the U.S. that would impose embargoes of air travel,
weapons and aircraft parts.
   ---
   An Algerian court ordered the dissolution of the Islamic
Salvation Front, nearly two months after the fundamentalist
party was denied almost certain victory in parliamentary
elections. A lawyer for the party said it would appeal the
decision, which is to take effect in one week.
   ---
   A diagnostic test can reduce chances of dying from colon
cancer as much as 70%, a new study says. The test involves
the insertion of a small viewing scope to detect early signs
of cancer.
   ---
   Israeli and Arab delegates said they remained far apart on
all key issues as the latest round of Mideast talks was
concluding in Washington. The Palestinians vowed to begin
implementing a plan for elections in the Gaza Strip, West
Bank and East Jerusalem. The plan was denounced by Israelis
as a prescription for statehood.
   ---
   Rescue workers in Turkey abandoned efforts to find about
150 coal miners trapped below ground as the result of
Tuesday's methane gas explosion in Kozlu. News reports said
more than 100 bodies already had been recovered from the
mine. About 700 men were underground at the time of the
blast, according to officials.
   ---
   A federal jury in Virginia convicted infertility doctor
Cecil Jacobson on 52 counts of fraud and perjury in a case in
which the prosecution alleged that Jacobson may have fathered
as many as 75 children through artificial insemination.
Jacobson, 55, faces up to 280 years in prison and $500,000 in
fines when he is sentenced May 8.
   ---
   South African officials moved closer to an agreement with
black groups on forming an interim Pretoria leadership that
would put blacks in power for the first time. During private
talks, government representatives reportedly backed the
appointment of a multiparty cabinet to oversee the transition
from white-minority rule.
   ---
   Azerbaijan accused former Soviet troops of joining
Armenian forces in last week's killing of Azerbaijanis trying
to flee a besieged town in the disputed enclave of
Nagorno-Karabakh. In New York, Azerbaijan's foreign minister
urged the U.N. to send peacekeeping troops to patrol his
country's border with Armenia.
   ---
   Joint police and army patrols began operating in
Bosnia-Hercegovina's capital, Sarajevo, as part of an effort
to prevent more ethnic violence. At least eight people have
been killed since a weekend referendum in which voters in the
Yugoslav republic cast ballots in favor of independence.
   ---
   Cuba rejected a U.N. censure vote on Havana's human rights
record and said it wouldn't comply with a call to cooperate
with a special U.N. human rights investigator assigned to the
island.