Thursday's Markets:
   Dow Slips
   29.07 a Day
   After Gains
   ---
   See-Saw May Signal
   A Respite for Market;
   Bonds Sink Sharply
   ----
   By Douglas R. Sease
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Yesterday's stock market action came on the heels of a
32-point gain Wednesday and a 31-point drop Tuesday in the
Dow industrials. Analysts said the waffling is characteristic
of a market that has reached a top, at least for a while.
   "There's a certain amount of indecision out there," said
James Solloway, director of research at Argus Research.
"We've come a long way in this rally and the bull needs a
rest. This isn't the time to be chasing stocks."
   Mr. Solloway noted that investor sentiment as measured by
Investor's Intelligence is now 60% bullish compared to only
42.1% bullish three weeks ago. "When it gets above 50%, that
usually means people are about as invested as they're likely
to want to be."
   But he also said that he remains bullish for the
longer-term, especially on cyclical stocks. Although cyclical
stocks have had several false starts in the past few years,
Mr. Solloway said interest rates are low enough and the
nation's money supply is growing fast enough that the stage
is being set for an economic recovery later this year. And
though that recovery may be anemic by post-war standards, he
said cyclical stocks should nevertheless move substantially
higher.
   "In the 1982 recovery cyclical stocks doubled," he pointed
out. "If this recovery is half as good, we would see cyclical
stocks rising 50%. I wouldn't turn down those kinds of
gains."
   The bond market decline was blamed by analysts on the
large pending supply of new debt issues from corporations
and, next month, the Treasury.
   Some money managers worry that rising long-term interest
rates may pull down stock prices. But Mr. Solloway said the
higher interest rates are probably temporary. Besides, "We're
in a window of time in which stock prices are being driven by
earnings expectations, not interest rates," he said. "Stocks
will only be affected if we don't get the earnings later this
year that we're expecting."
   In major market action:
                                                                                                       

   Stock prices fell in heavy trading. Volume totaled 229.68
million shares on the New York Stock Exchange, where 939
issues fell and 798 rose.
                                                                                                       

   Bond prices slumped. The Treasury's benchmark 30-year bond
lost a full point, or $10 for each $1,000 face amount. The
yield on the issue climbed to 7.72%.
                                                                                                       

   The dollar rose. In late New York trading the currency was
quoted at 1.606 marks and 123.8 yen compared to 1.5900 marks
and 123.35 yen Wednesday.