Bankers Trust's
   Earnings in 1991
   Rose to Record
   ----
   By Steven Lipin
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Helping earnings was an extraordinary tax gain of $23
million, reflecting tax benefits from reserves set aside for
certain loans to developing counties. While the bottom line
was better than the year-earlier quarter's, operating
earnings excluding tax benefits and one-time gains were
similar to the 1990 results, analysts estimated. Banks
usually don't report operating results.
   Bankers Trust, which makes much of its profit from Wall
Street activities rather than traditional banking, earned
$667 million in 1991, beating its 1990 record of $665
million. Per-share net was $7.75, compared with 1990's $7.80.
   Bankers Trust's stock, which had slumped recently, rose
$1.875 a share to $65.75 a share in composite trading on the
New York Stock Exchange.
   "The bank has shown elite returns by industry standards,"
said Judah Kraushaar, banking analyst at Merrill Lynch.
   While trading revenue for the year rose more than 19% to
$1.23 billion, fourth-quarter trading revenue of $207 million
slipped 9% from the year earlier and 36% from the third
quarter. Like J.P. Morgan Inc., Bankers Trust in the fourth
quarter had lower revenue from trading foreign currencies and
developing-country debt.
   "The trading revenue is quite variable," said Ronald
Mandle, an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein  Co. Messrs.
Mandle and Kraushaar are both looking for a pickup in the
first quarter.
   In the three months ended Dec. 31, fiduciary and
fund-management fees rose 13%. Fees from corporate finance
activities such as bond underwriting as well as other
businesses also rose from the year-earlier period, while the
bank's expenses declined.
   The bank, which has $66 billion in assets, holds a small
portion of the loans it makes and syndicates the rest to
other banks. Bankers Trust in recent years has continued to
reduce the portion of loans that it holds and as a result,
the ratio of loans to the bank's assets has continued to
fall. The bank's loan portfolio was 27.5% of assets, down
from 32.4% at the end of 1990 and well below the 50%-70%
ratio for other large banks.
   That means that when loans become non-performing, the bank
doesn't have to set aside as much in reserves as other large
banks do. Bankers Trust set aside $75 million for loan losses
in the fourth quarter, high by the bank's standards but well
below its peers. The bank wrote down $68 million in loans,
the bulk of which was reportedly covering the bank's exposure
to Maxwell Communication Corp., a flagship company in the
collapsed media empire of the late Robert Maxwell. Excluding
loans to developing countries, the bank has more than
sufficient reserves to cover nonperforming loans.