Law:
   Court Rejects
   Scholarship Aid
   For Blacks Only
   ----
   By Milo Geyelin
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The opinion opens the door to legal challenges in at least
19 states where universities have set up race-based
scholarships as part of negotiated settlements with the U.S.
Department of Education to end decades of past
discrimination.
   The decision stunned education experts familiar with the
University of Maryland, which they say has a well-documented
record of the lingering effects of past discrimination. "I'm
almost floored," said Sheldon Steinbach, general counsel for
the American Council on Education in Washington. "I think
many individuals in higher education felt that one of the
strongest cases for race-based scholarships was the fact
pattern presented in the Maryland case."
   Lawyers involved in the case said the decision, if
followed by other appeals courts, has the potential to wipe
out race-based scholarship programs nationwide, mostly at
state universities and particularly in the South. For now,
the decision is binding only within the Fourth Circuit
Court's territory, which comprises Maryland, North Carolina,
South Carolina, Virginia and West Virginia.
   The decision didn't specify what would constitute a
specific finding of discrimination sufficient to justify
race-based scholarships. "Maryland made all the arguments
that are traditionally made in support of such programs,"
said Richard Samp, general counsel for the Washington Legal
Foundation, a business interest group in Washington that
brought the suit on behalf of a Hispanic plaintiff, Dennis J.
Podberesky. "I don't know what more they could have come up
with."
   Race-based scholarship programs designed to correct past
discrimination have been required by the federal government
for more than two decades as a condition for federal
education funding. The Bush administration, critical of all
racial quotas, considered opposing race-based scholarships on
constitutional grounds in 1990, but backed down due to public
opposition.
   Instead, last December, the Department of Education issued
proposed guidelines declaring race-based scholarships legal
upon "a proper finding" by a court or administrative body
that they are needed to remedy past discrimination.
   The court's opinion Monday, however, goes further than the
proposed regulation, effectively throwing into question what
level of evidence of discrimination is needed before the
Education Department can require race-based scholarships. A
department spokesman said only that the appeals court opinion
is being reviewed.
   The Maryland case concerned Mr. Podberesky, from
Randallstown, Md., who got close to straight A's in high
school, scored well on the Scholastic Aptitude Test and
worked for Amnesty International in his spare time. Mr.
Podberesky was admitted to the university's College Park
branch in 1989. But when he applied for a Benjamin Banneker
Scholarship, he was turned down because he is Hispanic.
   The Banneker scholarship, reserved for blacks, was part of
a number of remedial efforts begun by Maryland after federal
officials notified the state in 1969 that the 99%-white
enrollment record at the university was unconstitutional.
   Since 1969, Maryland has worked to comply with guidelines
set by the Department of Education's Office of Civil Rights,
eventually reaching a 14% enrollment goal for black freshmen
in 1989. But other enrollment and graduation goals for blacks
were left unmet, and the office of civil rights was
continuing its oversight when Mr. Podberesky filed his suit.
   The fact that the federal government continues to monitor
the university was the best argument that racism persists at
Maryland, said Andrew Baida, a Maryland deputy attorney
general, who represented the university. But the Fourth
Circuit disagreed, sending the case back to the lower court
for "a determination as to the present effects of past
discrimination." No decision has been made on whether to
appeal the ruling.
   The decision is patterned after a U.S. Supreme Court
ruling in January 1989 that sharply limited the power of
state and local governments to adopt affirmative-action plans
in awarding public contracts.
   In that case, a Richmond plan requiring that 30% of the
work on all city construction contracts be awarded to
minority subcontractors was struck down. The law was intended
to redress Richmond's history of discrimination, but the
court said it was unconstitutional because the city didn't
point to any identifiable racism still continuing in the
city's construction industry.