Year-End Review of Stock Markets:
   Small, Growth Companies Reward Backers
   ----
   By James A. White
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
As was the case for other investors, the college
retirement fund's small-stock portfolio was a standout after
almost a decade in the doldrums. Its international stocks,
stellar performers in recent years, were laggards in 1991.
But the combination of the fund's various strategies left it
ahead of the game. "This is all the idea of having the
diversification," says Mr. Martin.
   Managers posted a median gain of 22.1% on their stock
holdings in 1991's first three quarters, according to
investment consultants SEI Capital Resources. That compares
with a rise of 20.4% for the broad market as measured by
Standard & Poor's 500-Stock Index in that period.
   In a roller coaster fourth quarter that featured both a
sharp selloff and a push to market highs, the median manager
posted a gain of 0.2% through Dec. 20, according to Indata, a
unit of Gordon, Haskett & Co. That compares with a rise of
0.5% for the S&P 500 from Oct. 1 to Dec. 20 of last year.
Rocketing stock prices in the final trading sessions of the
year made the market a tougher target to reach, but many
managers were able to hold on to their performance edge.
   Bond managers also prospered in 1991. "It was a top, top
year {for high-grade bonds} and the best year ever for the
below-investment grade bonds," says F. Allen Weisenfluh, vice
president of John Hancock Mutual Life Insurance Co., Boston.
   Indeed, some indexes showed the performance of so-called
junk bonds was even better than that for small-cap stocks
during 1991, to the joy of junk investors who had seen the
value of their holdings plunge in 1990. The rebound, says
Gordon Binns, president of General Motors Investment Corp., a
large investor in junk bonds for the GM pension fund, shows
that "junk is a valid asset class, which can be expected to
produce returns over time that are appropriate for the
risks."
   As for stocks, portfolio managers as a rule tend to hold
companies whose average market values are lower than those of
the issues making up the S&P 500; that hinders results of the
managers in comparison with the S&P 500 when large stocks are
in favor, as they were during much of the takeover boom of
the '80s.
   "Anytime you have small stocks doing well relative to
large stocks, managers have a better shot at outperforming
the market," says Norton Reamer, president of United Asset
Management Corp., a Boston holding company for 26
money-management firms with combined assets of $55 billion.
   Long-suffering small-capitalization managers were suddenly
hotly pursued by swarms of investors, who expected smaller
companies to prosper with 1991's predicted economic rebound.
The recovery that unfolded during the year proved far more
wobbly than expected, but that did little to damp enthusiasm
for small stocks.
   Bigger stocks sporting earnings growth despite the
recession also produced strong returns for managers. "Almost
anything with a growth tilt to it did well," says Howard
Pohl, a pension consultant with Chicago-based Becker, Burke
Associates Inc. That, according to SEI's statistics, marked
the third consecutive year that growth managers outshone
those pursuing the value style, which stress stocks with low
price-earnings ratios. But even value managers measured by
SEI did better than the S&P 500 index for much of the year.
   Expansion continued for indexing and other forms of
portfolio investing strategies, where the focus is on
building portfolios with certain characteristics rather than
on the selection of individual stocks. While portfolios
mimicking the S&P 500 remain the most popular use of
indexing, "the S&P 500 is not receiving the most attention
from new clients," says Patricia C. Dunn, president of Wells
Fargo Nikko Investment Advisors in San Francisco, the
country's largest index manager.
   Instead, Ms. Dunn says, investors increasingly are turning
to so-called style index funds to capture the movements of
such stock groups as growth and small caps.
Middle-capitalization stocks also received attention from
indexers as a result of S&P's introduction of the S&P MidCap
Index in the summer. And Wells Fargo Nikko's fastest-growing
product area is international stock indexing, which has
attracted some $10 billion from investors, Ms. Dunn says.
   Indeed, despite the relatively weak performance of many
international markets measured in dollar terms, large numbers
of U.S. investors diversified their portfolios with the
addition of foreign securities. According to the Securities
Industry Association, net purchases of foreign stocks by U.S.
investors were a record $16.3 billion in the first half;
Salomon Brothers predicted foreign stock purchases would top
$25 billion for the full year.
   It was another disastrous year for real estate investing,
with buying and selling at a near-standstill. "Since 1987,
Treasury bills have outperformed real estate and the gap is
widening," says Sol Rubin of TCW Realty Advisors, Los
Angeles. But he adds that 1992 "will be pretty much the
bear-market bottom for most types of real estate."
   After a banner year in 1990, short sellers, who profit
when stocks they target fall in price, also struggled for
nearly all of 1991. Post-Iraqi war euphoria early in the year
bolstered even the market's weaklings, to the exasperation of
the shorts. Shorts also were victims of squeezes as traders
aggressively bought stocks with large short positions
outstanding, driving up their prices and pushing short
sellers to the wall.
   The fourth quarter brought some relief to the shorts, but
not in time to avoid a flood of redemption requests by
investors asking for their money back from shortselling
specialists. In Palo Alto, Calif., Feshbach Brothers, who had
reached nearly $1 billion in assets in 1990, ended 1991 with
less than half of that because of the combination of
withdrawals and market losses.
   A survey of 15 large short-sellers by Harry Strunk, an
investment consultant based in Palm Beach, Fla., showed that
they had lost 26.4% through November. That compares with a
gain of almost 50% for the group in 1990, causing a surge of
interest in short selling. Now, "investors in general are
shying away from it," Mr. Strunk says.
   Meanwhile, 1991 saw the big get bigger as two
institutional investors passed $100 billion in assets under
management. Teachers Insurance Annuity Association, which,
together with its sister organization, the College Retirement
Equities Fund, is the nation's largest pension system, and
Wells Fargo Nikko, each reached the milestone during the
year.
   And Warren Buffett, a money manager known for seeking a
low profile, was thrust into a glare of publicity. Mr.
Buffett took over the reins at one of his troubled
investments, Salomon Inc., hoping to repair damage done to
the Wall Street firm by its Treasury-auction scandal.