Marketing:
   Catalogs Help Avon Get a Foot in the Door
   ----
   By Jeffrey A. Trachtenberg
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The move reflects growing concern at Avon that its core
U.S. market, where sales have been weak in recent years, has
matured. With more women in the work force, fewer are home or
have time to sit down with their Avon sales representatives.
Supermarkets and discount drugstores also have stolen
business from Avon, though it remains the nation's largest
direct seller of beauty aids. And even many Avon loyalists
aren't getting house calls: Either they or their trusty sales
reps have moved away.
   "We know there are at least 10 million women in the U.S.
who are interested in buying from Avon but can't because no
representative is calling," says James Preston, Avon's
chairman and chief executive. "This system opens up all sorts
of additional opportunities to reach customers."
   George Hescock, executive vice president of the Direct
Selling Association, a trade group in Washington, agrees that
a big challenge for direct-sales companies is the high
turnover rate in both sales force and consumers. "A catalog,"
he says, "lets you reach that stranded customer."
   Some analysts, however, say Avon runs the risk of
alienating the company's sales force -- the source of almost
all its revenue. Because salespeople will get smaller
commissions on catalog sales, "if they begin to lose regular
customers, there may be some backlash," says Alice Beebe
Longley, an analyst with Donaldson, Lufkin  Jenrette
Securities Corp.
   On the other hand, sales reps will get a slice of any
catalog sales to customers in their area, whether they have
anything to do with an order or not. So, they could benefit
if the catalog business thrives.
   Avon's entry also comes at a difficult juncture for the
catalog business. The industry's sales were flat last year,
primarily because of the economy, says Richard Stearns, head
of marketing at GSP Marketing Services Inc., a Chicago firm
that specializes in the catalog business.
   Like Avon, other direct sellers are intrigued with the
catalog business. Last November, Tupperware Home Parties, a
division of Premark International Inc., launched a two-month
test in the New York area. The company mailed catalogs to
about 25,000 potential customers whose names were supplied by
the Tupperware sales force, and it intends to expand the
effort this year.
   One of Avon's key competitors, Beauti Control Cosmetics
Inc., a Dallas-based direct seller of beauty products,
started a catalog in 1984. Today it mails 600,000 catalogs
nationally six times a year to customers whose names have
been provided by its sales representatives.
   Some ventures into cataloging haven't paid off. Fuller
Brush Co., a closely held direct-sales company in Great Bend,
Kan., abandoned its catalog more than a year ago after
several years of experimentation. Mary Lou Schnoebelen,
director of human resources, says only: "We decided to focus
on our basic direct business."
   Avon, however, believes the potential rewards of its new
strategy outweigh the risks. The company is enthusiastic
about direct mail not only because it generates new sales,
Mr. Preston says, but also because in tests it attracted
customers who are younger and more affluent than Avon's
traditional buyers. An estimated 75% of customers who made
catalog purchases during the trials either had never bought
from Avon before or hadn't purchased any Avon products in the
previous six months.
   Mr. Preston adds that 11% of people who received the
catalogs made purchases, compared with an average industry
response rate of only 2% to 3%. But that may be misleading
because the Avon catalogs went mainly to former Avon
customers, while many catalog houses use mailing lists of
consumers who may be unfamiliar with their products.
   Avon's plan is to send catalogs to people who sales
representatives say have moved or are no longer active
buyers. These customers can order either directly from the
company or through their salespeople. If they order from the
company, the sales representative receives a 20% commission,
about half the standard rate.
   Avon is kicking off its catalog drive with an ad campaign
featuring the slogan "Avon -- The Smartest Shop in Town." The
ads will prominently feature a toll-free phone number new
customers can call to order the catalog. Each caller will be
assigned to the nearest Avon representative, who will receive
commissions on any direct orders. Management hopes that will
minimize resentment in the sales force.
   Initially, Avon's expectations for the new venture are
modest. The company expects its sales to reach $20 million to
$25 million in 1992. Last year, the company had earnings of
$135.7 million on revenue of $3.59 billion.
   Avon has been in the catalog business before. In the
mid-1980s, its direct-mail operations included Avon Fashions
for women and two other clothing catalogs. Avon sold the
catalog lines, which are still in business, to reduce debt
and focus on beauty products.