Heard on the Street:
   Best of Both Worlds: How to Get Growth and Value
   ----
   By James A. White
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
GARPists are growth lovers at heart, but with a stingy
streak. They won't pay stratospheric prices for the
highest-flying growth stocks, no matter how tempting the
companies' earnings prospects. Rather, they seek growth
stocks with low price-earnings multiples, the benchmark
typically favored by value stock pickers.
   One leading GARP practitioner is Lee Munder, head of
Munder Capital Management Inc. in Birmingham, Mich., which
manages $4.5 billion, mostly for pension funds. Although he
concedes that he can't keep up with "pure" growth managers in
growth's banner years, the money manager says that his GARP
orientation provides a buffer in down markets.
   "Our clients want consistent results. They don't want
spectacular results," says the 46-year-old Mr. Munder, who
founded his firm in 1985. "If we were No. 1 among all growth
managers in any one year, there would be something wrong."
   Last year Munder Capital produced returns of about 40%,
well shy of the 50% to 80% chalked up by some growth
managers. But Mr. Munder still beat Standard  Poor's
500-stock index by nearly 10 percentage points in 1991. And
the firm's annualized return in the past five years has been
almost 19%, well ahead of the 15.24% for the SP 500.
   Mr. Munder looks for companies "that produce good,
consistent results, with good-looking balance sheets." He is
a believer in earnings momentum, arguing that companies
reporting higher earnings are likely to continue to do so. He
prefers low-debt companies, but he'll make exceptions for
dependable cash generators, such as food companies.
   Mr. Munder also likes companies that regularly plow back a
chunk of earnings into their businesses. The plow-back rate
is important, he says, to assure that a company can continue
to finance its earnings growth internally. "The typical
growth manager may buy stocks that have a wonderful growth
rate, but that have no way to repeat that success without
borrowing money or issuing new stock," says Mr. Munder, who
shudders at both prospects.
   Mixing investment styles is often viewed as a sin by
consultants who prefer to pigeonhole money managers into one
style or the other. Pension funds routinely fire money
managers who stray from a designated style, because this can
foul up a fund's diversification plan. But Mr. Munder can't
be chastised; he tells clients right up front that he will
deliberately straddle both the growth and value styles.
   He has none of the aggressive growth manager's tolerance
for stocks trading at 40, 60, perhaps even 90 times reported
earnings. Stocks in Mr. Munder's portfolio trade at an
average of about 18 times operating earnings. That's below
the stock market's current multiple of about 19 times
operating earnings, excluding special items.
   Mr. Munder screens 5,500 candidates, looking for the 40 or
50 companies that will end up in his portfolio (his minimum
account is $5 million, though lower for Michigan clients). He
tries to keep turnover low, and makes a practice of sending
clients a letter after each stock purchase or sale so there
are no surprises when the quarterly portfolio statement
arrives.
   Mr. Munder says there is no shortage of stocks meeting his
criteria today. One is chicken producer Tyson Foods, which
has had average annual earnings growth of 27% over the past
five years and whose Class A shares have a P-E of about 17.
"In an industry fraught with people who aren't very careful
about the way they produce their product," he says, Tyson
"has taken a commodity and `branded' it into a proprietary
product. . . . Tyson convinced consumers that they feed
chickens better."
   Bausch  Lomb, with a P-E of 20, and American Home
Products, with a P-E of 18, also are among Mr. Munder's
current holdings. American Home Products, he notes, has had
earnings growth of about 10% a year, and hasn't had an annual
earnings decline in 15 years. The company's investments in
biotechnology might also deliver big payoffs, he says.
   Mr. Munder sometimes ventures into sectors that are
foreign to the typical growth manager. In financial services,
for example, he sees opportunity in several insurance
companies. He cites Capital Holding Corp., selling at around
11 times reported earnings, and Torchmark, with about a 12
P-E; he says earnings for both should grow at about 14% to
15% this year.
   A financial stock close to home for Mr. Munder is
Detroit's Manufacturers National Corp., whose Manufacturers
National Bank unit avoided real estate and other lending
problems of rivals by "just grinding it out, minding its own
business," Mr. Munder says. He expects this year's scheduled
merger of Manufacturers and Comercia Inc. will save $150
million in operating costs. Despite a recent price runup to
46 1/2, he sees Manufacturers National as an attractive
long-term bet.
   Mr. Munder is particularly partial to "solid, sensible,
Midwest companies." A local favorite is Arbor Drugs of Troy,
Mich., which has steady earnings growth, good store locations
and what Mr. Munder calls "sensitive, caring management."
   Stocks that double in price are automatically sold from
Mr. Munder's portfolio. Most of his holdings have
stock-market values of $2 billion and up, but he'll buy much
smaller companies if they can show a solid five-year earnings
record.
   His smallest holding currently is Little Switzerland,
which at yesterday's 16 1/4 has a total stock market value of
less than $140 million. The company, partly owned by Town 
Country Corp., owns 17 jewelry stores in the Caribbean, and
is a leader in that niche. "They catch the tourists coming
in, wanting to buy their Rolex watches or their perfume," Mr.
Munder says.
   Also dominant in its market is International Flavors 
Fragrances. "There isn't even a close second" in competition
with International Flavors, says Mr. Munder. He also likes
the company's debt-free status and exposure overseas, where
it does 70% of its business. The stock closed yesterday at
104 3/4, up 1 1/8.
   Above all, says Mr. Munder, he wants the companies in his
portfolio to churn out consistent financial results. "To make
me happy as an investor," he says, "they don't have to do
anything (different) next quarter than they did last quarter.
   The catch in GARP investing is that the portfolio often
doesn't hold the the fastest-rising growth stocks. These
sizzlers get ruled out by the value requirements applied in
stock selection.
   So when growth stocks in general outperform the value
crowd -- as they have in the past three years -- GARP
performance is good but muted compared with pure growth. On
the other hand, in GARP portfolios the value element should
help bolster the portfolio when things go badly for
traditional growth managers.
   GARP is just one of several approaches used by money
mangers who try to blend investment styles. Good long-term
track records have been posted by both growth managers and
value managers, but the two styles don't usually do well at
the same time.
   Unlike GARPists, some money managers search first for
stocks with favorable value characteristics such as low
price-earnings multiples; only then do they factor in the
companies' growth prospects to make their stock selections.
   "We look for a value stock that shows signs of becoming a
growth stock," says Charles E. Albers, manager of the $275
million Guardian Park Avenue Fund for Guardian Life Insurance
Co. of America in New York. "An ideal stock is cheap on the
fundamentals where the earnings are perking up." The Guardian
Park Avenue Fund gained 35.16% last year, compared with 30.4%
for the SP 500.
   Consultants are becoming more tolerant of managers who
openly mix growth and value stocks. But confusion still
abounds. Guardian's Mr. Albers recounts a recent day when he
met separately with officials of two leading consulting
firms. One consultant classified Mr. Albers as specializing
in small growth stocks; the other pegged him as a value
manager. Says Mr. Albers: "I didn't know whether to be
distressed or amused."
   ---
                 The World According to GARP
                                                                                                       

   Some of Munder Capital's growth stocks with a value bent
                                                                                                       

                 Projected
             12-Month Earnings       P/E        Yesterday's
                  Growth            Ratio*        Close
                                                                                                       

 Amer. Home        12%                18          78 1/4
  Products
                                                                                                       

 Arbor Drugs       15                 25          22 1/2
                                                                                                       

 Capital Holdings  15                 11          57 1/8
                                                                                                       

 Intl. Flavors    12                 23         104 3/4
  Fragrances
                                                                                                       

 Tyson Foods `A'   12                 17          17 1/2
                                                                                                       

                                                                                                       

 *Wednesday's close, based on trailing 12-month earnings
                                                                                                       

 Source: Munder Capital Management Inc.