Rule of Law:
   Judging Whose Beach Fronts, Wetlands and Junk Bonds
   ----
   By L. Gordon Crovitz
The South Carolina case is the highest-profile lawsuit
against legislators and regulators who've ignored the Takings
Clause of the Fifth Amendment to the Constitution. This says
the government can take property for a public purpose, but
only if taxpayers compensate the owner.
   The facts in Lucas v. South Carolina Coastal Council make
it clear that years of judicial indifference to property
rights have encouraged regulators to take first, answer
questions later. David Lucas bought two plots of land but
before he could build, the state adopted a new policy to
protect the beach. This barred Mr. Lucas from building more
than a pup tent, but offered him no compensation.
   The state can ban beach-front construction, but why should
Mr. Lucas bear the full cost of a rule aimed at protecting
the homes of his neighbors up and down the street? As Justice
Sandra O'Connor put it during the oral argument, the state's
no-pay reasoning could just as easily throw people out of
their already built homes without compensating them.
   The justices will have to work out how to protect property
pretty much on their own. The U.S. government filed a
surprisingly incoherent brief in Lucas, reflecting what
happened when Solicitor General Kenneth Starr felt obliged to
let pro-regulation environmental lawyers in the Justice
Department muddy up the constitutional argument in favor of
Mr. Lucas. Richard Epstein, the University of Chicago law
professor and author of "Takings," filed a legal argument
that would restore economic liberties to full civil-rights
protection.
   As the Supreme Court decides Lucas and other
property-rights cases this term -- one involving a
development dispute in Puerto Rico, another a rent-control
fight in California -- the justices might consult the work of
the federal court whose full-time job is deciding property
cases. This is the little-known U.S. Claims Court, where
plaintiffs can go for monetary damages from Uncle Sam.
   The court's chief judge, Loren Smith, just sent a
multibillion-dollar message to savings-and-loans regulators.
Last month Judge Smith ruled that Winstar Corp. and other
thrifts can sue the U.S. for contract breach and takings
based on FIRREA, the 1989 law Congress passed supposedly to
fix the thrifts' problems.
   Regulators persuaded Winstar to take over a failing
Minnesota thrift in 1984. The feds didn't have the cash to
make the investment worth Winstar's risk, so part of the
non-cash benefit was a pledge of favorable accounting
treatment for "supervisory good will." But the 1989 law
revoked this accounting method retroactively, violating the
contract, taking property and putting Winstar's thrift out of
business.
   Judge Smith hasn't issued his formal ruling yet, but he
will answer No Way to the legal issue Winstar framed in its
lawsuit: "Whether the federal government may enter into a
contract with the plaintiffs, receive the benefit of
plaintiffs' complete performance of their obligations under
the contract, then renege by refusing to perform its
obligations under the contract while retaining all of the
benefits conferred by the plaintiffs."
   Glenfed Inc., a $20 billion California thrift, has a
similar case before Judge Smith seeking $750,000. California
Federal Bank, the nation's fourth-largest thrift, has also
sued in the Claims Court asking for $500 million in losses.
There are also lawsuits by thrifts such as Far West Federal
of Portland, Ore., where thrift regulators signed explicit
contracts ensuring investors that their deal would stand
"notwithstanding any subsequent changes in the definition of
regulatory capital."
   There will be other lawsuits by thrifts. Imagine if the
government told homeowners there were toxic poisons under
their houses, forcing them to sell at low prices. Then it
turned out there was no poison after all. Would the
homeowners be able to sue?
   This is precisely what FIRREA did to savings-and-loans
that owned junk bonds. The law forced the thrifts to mark
their bonds to market and sell them quickly, causing a
temporary slump in junk-bond prices. Despite continuing
skepticism from the regulators who brought us the credit
crunch, once the dust settled junk bonds again became
excellent investments.
   As Glenn Yago writes on the opposite page today, Columbia
Savings  Loan of California is a prime victim (see related
editorial: "The Regulatory Reign of Terror" -- WSJ March 4,
92). His review of Columbia's portfolio found that if
regulators hadn't forced Columbia to junk its junk, it would
have shown a big profit by the end of 1991. Can Columbia's
owners sue for a taking?
   It's worth a try, especially if they sue in the Claims
Court. Judge Smith, who was appointed by President Reagan in
1985, has written several other opinions that have
property-rights groups cheering.
   He wrote two opinions that said the Takings Clause
requires compensation when regulators decide land is a
"wetland." In one, he demanded compensation for a New Jersey
developer when regulators barred construction of new homes by
declaring his land a wetland; Loveladies Harbor v. U.S.
(1988). Judge Smith also ruled there must be compensation
when a firm could not mine for limestone on what was
reclassified as a wetland; Florida Rock Industries v. U.S.
(1988).
   Judge Smith also ordered $150 million in compensation to a
Wyoming coal company when the Interior Department barred
mining in a certain area; Whitney Benefits v. U.S. (1989).
The Justice Department tried to get the Supreme Court to
reverse Judge Smith's opinion, but failed.
   It's not surprising that an era of reregulation would make
the job of the chief judge of the Claims Court one of the
most important in government. Holding the government liable
for its actions is about more than fairness. It's also about
limiting the damage government can do to markets.
   The Founders of this country understood that politicians
and bureaucrats might be tempted to risk policies that harmed
economic growth by taking away private property, whether
land, coal or junk bonds. This is why they insisted that
taxpayers must be willing to pay for any property the
government takes -- the core of the Takings Clause -- as a
limit on the damage government can do.