Enterprise:
   Pay-as-You-Go Approach Is Giving Women an Edge
   ---
   Starting Small in Business Without Debt
   Proves a Boon in Recession
   ----
   By Barbara Marsh
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Jill Johnson, a 31-year-old marketing and management
consultant, started her company five years ago on the
dining-room table of a Minneapolis apartment. When her
husband lost his job in the fall of 1990, she knew her
business had to grow to support them. Rather than rent
expensive commercial property, she dipped into the couple's
savings to buy a house big enough to include an office. She
says she invested thousands more dollars where it counts, in
business trips and other "networking" costs.
   Though she says her firm's revenue jumped 25% to more than
$100,000 last year, Ms. Johnson kept the lid on payroll. She
hired six part-timers to help moderate focus groups, do
research and type. She paid them a total of $10,000, half the
cost of one full-timer. As a result, she says, profitability
is "extremely high."
   Statistics on survival rates of women-owned businesses
aren't available. But "women owners are hanging on and quite
a few of them are actually doing relatively well," contends
Sharon Hadary, of the National Association of Women Business
Owners' research foundation. A survey by the group last year
of 1,200 women owners found 74% optimistic about the 1992
outlook for their companies, though 41% were pessimistic
about the economy.
   One reason for their upbeat mood may be their lack of
dependence on bank credit at a time when tight lending
policies are hurting many small businesses. "The bad news
was, we couldn't get credit" in the 1980s, says Ms. Hadary.
"But the good news was, when {banks} were calling in loans,
they weren't calling in ours because we didn't have them."
Three of four women owners surveyed said they started out
with their own financing; 38% said they still have no bank
credit. More than half grow by reinvesting profits.
   Even the smallest deals pay off for businesses on tiny
budgets. B.J. Tatro, a Phoenix, Ariz., consultant to
social-service organizations, recently added a local girl
scout council as a client. It paid her a mere $1,000 to run a
strategic-planning retreat, but she says, "A lot of times
those little {jobs} end up generating more work." In 1991,
her revenue grew 15% to nearly $200,000, she says.
   Diversification also helped. Five years ago, Ms. Tatro had
just two clients; now she has a dozen, making her less
vulnerable to government cutbacks as the slump affects agency
programs, she says.
   Stressing low overhead, some women focus on inexpensive
solutions. Maria Lenoir, a corporate-training consultant who
runs her Corporate Image Inc. from her St. Louis home,
worried about losing business to cost-conscious clients. She
took a step that cost her nothing: She changed her sales
pitch. In good economic times she had promoted her expertise
at brushing up the skills of secretaries and middle managers;
now she stresses her ability to motivate employees
demoralized by cutbacks and extra work. The approach worked.
Revenue jumped 42% in 1991 to $213,000, she says. With just
two full-time and four part-time consultants, she says she
made a "nice profit."
   Consultants say that women starting businesses generally
tend to build them more cautiously than men do. Thus, their
companies are less exposed in a recession. Geri Larkin, a
Michigan manager for Deloitte  Touche who specializes in
women-owned companies, describes the typical business
expansion plan for a local woman as "Detroit this year,
Michigan next year, and the U.S. in three." In contrast, she
maintains, men figure: Michigan this year, the U.S. next,
then the world.
   "Women are not the risk-takers that men are," asserts
Alice Brown, past director of a Small Business Adminstration
program for women owners. "They are more likely to start
smaller than men, with less debt, less overhead, less
everything."
   Many women opened service businesses in the 1980s,
consultants note, because they could be launched cheaply at
home. Also, such businesses can be upgraded less expensively
than, say, manufacturers, and that helps them attract clients
who have grown quality-conscious in the recession.
   Carolyn Grant, of Plants by Grant Inc., in Raleigh, N.C.,
last year improved her plant sales-and-service business,
adding a full-timer who visits her 350 commercial clients
every three months to check on service. For environmentally
conscious clients, she dropped chemical insecticides in favor
of natural insect enemies.
   Ms. Grant says sales last year jumped 25% to $1.5 million.
She added eight employees and aims to hire eight more this
year. She's gunning for accounts of rivals who, she claims,
"can't adapt to the changing economy."
   Consultants say women can afford to price competitively
because of low overhead -- which helps boost sales in a slow
economy. Beverly Duran, of Carretas Inc., an Albuquerque,
N.M., maker of vending carts used in shopping malls, says
last year she analyzed the cost of everything that winds up
on her carts. She says she discovered a competitor was
charging $88 for lighting -- $14 less than she was charging.
She negotiated with her supplier to cut her cost so she need
charge only $75.
   As a result, she says, she undercuts competitors by
several thousand dollars on top-of-the-line carts that cost
$10,000. Despite last year's retailing slump, Ms. Duran says
sales grew 33% to $2 million.