Washington Wire:
   A Special Weekly Report From
   The Wall Street Journal's
   Capital Bureau
   ----
   Compiled by Ronald G. Shafer
But skeptics question the SEC study as an ingratiating
effort by agency chief Breeden to exonerate Bush, who first
floated the caps idea. Despite the report, the Senate is
likely to be skittish that a new proposal would set off
another stock plunge. "It was a bad idea then, and it's a bad
idea now," says a spokeswoman for Utah Sen. Garn.
   The White House would oppose any new effort to cap
credit-card rates.
                                                                                                       

   MOVEMENT BEGINS slowly for economic sanctions against
Libya.
   The U.S. and European allies finally begin circulating a
U.N. resolution warning Tripoli to cut terrorist ties or face
sanctions. Action was delayed after the November indictment
of two Libyans for the Pan Am 103 bombing to work through the
U.N. Then diplomats chose to wait until January, when a more
favorable roster of countries took seats on the Security
Council.
   The slow pace has families of Pan Am 103 victims fuming.
"We're all pretty angry and upset again," says Susan Cohen,
whose daughter died in the bombing. The families plan protest
letters and a vigil when the U.N. debate starts. Their
complaints that the U.S. hasn't strongly pursued possible
involvement by Iran and Syria could become a political issue
against Bush.
                                                                                                       

   BUCHANAN'S ATTACKS in New Hampshire put Bush on the
defensive.
   The GOP challenger plans to spend five days a week in the
state as the primary nears to try to monopolize media
attention. He hires a pollster and a media adviser. He girds
for a Bush TV-ad assault. State cochairman Jeffrey Hart says
Buchanan will counter that "unlike the president, he's a real
person."
   National Bush campaign advisers concede Buchanan could win
over 30% of the vote, but may be trying to build
over-expectations. "A lot of my friends will vote for him as
a protest," says state Bush official Hugh Gregg. Bush will go
on the offensive after his State of the Union speech. His
advisers say they plan a positive campaign, but some expect
the effort will go negative before it's over.
   Backers say Bush's trip to the state this week defused
voter anger. "He had to come here and say things were bad, to
show that he cared, and he did," says former state official
Thomas Rath.
                                                                                                       

   KERREY ON ICE: His backers claim a "fantastic reaction" to
a New Hampshire TV ad with the presidential candidate in
front of an ice-hockey net blasting Japanese trade. Clinton
and Tsongas attack the ad as protectionist, but some analysts
see parallels to Gephardt's famous Hyundai ad in 1988; both
were made by Bob Shrum.
                                                                                                       

   RUSSIA RESISTS international controls on some arms. The
republic balks at ending sales of tanks and jets, a source of
hard currency. The Pentagon estimates annual sales to Iran
total $1 billion. Russia also wants to keep small nuclear
warheads; each have about $250,000 worth of uranium that
could be used to fuel nuclear power plants.
                                                                                                       

   FLORIDA FIGHTS the U.S. over the carving up of BCCI's
carcass. The Justice Department claims nearly $20 million in
security deposits that the outlaw bank kept in Florida under
state banking rules. But Florida goes to U.S. court to try to
keep the money so it can help satisfy a dozen BCCI creditors
there.
                                                                                                       

   WETLANDS WRANGLE: An administration proposal to redefine
wetlands to allow more development draws over 30,000 letters,
most opposed. EPA's Reilly pushes redoing the plan, which
would cut protection for such areas as the Everglades.
Quayle's Competitiveness Council says only refinements are
needed.
                                                                                                       

   CONGRESSIONAL PRIMARIES provide an early test of
anti-incumbent anger.
   Illinois Rep. Rostenkowski faces a test from former
Chicago Alderman Dick Simpson, who claims the influential
Ways and Means chairman personifies what's wrong with
Congress. Veteran Democratic Illinois Sen. Dixon faces two
challengers who claim he is too conservative for the party.
Ethics allegations against Washington state's Sen. Adams are
an issue in a Democratic primary challenge there by former
Rep. Lowry.
   Oregon's Rep. AuCoin tests the appeal of a sitting
lawmaker by running against millionaire Harry Lonsdale for
the chance to oppose GOP Sen. Packwood. The abortion-rights
stance of GOP Sen. Specter, who alienated women's groups in
defending Clarence Thomas, will be an issue against
Pennsylvania state Rep. Steve Freind, a vocal anti-abortion
leader.
   "Primaries are the most stringent test to see how mad
voters are at incumbents," says analyst Charles Cook. "I'm
betting there'll be some upsets."
                                                                                                       

   MINOR MEMOS: Whoops] Bush officials invited undecided
Republicans to a town meeting with the president in Exeter,
N.H. They weren't happy when one who showed up was the town
chairman of the Bush-Quayle campaign. . . . There is a
facility at Oklahoma's Langston University named for the
House Agriculture Committee chairman: The E. (Kika) de la
Garza Institute for Goat Research.