REVIEW  OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   The Levy-Wynette Ticket
When we got it all sorted out, the other guy was Marv
Levy, head coach of the Buffalo Bills, victim of the
Washington Redskins' 37-24 blowout. "We played a team that
was better," he explained. "I heard Winston Churchill once
say that defeat, no matter how excused, discounted or
explained, is still odious."
   Levy for President. He'll need a running mate, of course,
but this defining moment in political history has also
provided a real person for that role. Tammy Wynette knows how
to handle an insult. "How dare you] With all that is in me, I
resent your caustic remark," she said in a letter to Hillary
(two l's), about her statement that she was not Tammy Wynette
standing by her man. "I didn't mean to hurt Tammy Wynette as
a person," Mrs. Clinton said. "I happen to be a
country-western fan. If she feels like I've hurt her
feelings, I'm sorry about that."
   Not good enough, says Tammy's husband and manager George
Richey, standing by his woman and client, not to mention her
fans, who probably vote for Democrats but not elitists. He
told the New York Post, "My wife and her fans were insulted
in public. She wants Mrs. Clinton to apologize in a similar
forum." Wonder how much Tammy would charge CBS for a joint
appearance?
   Another insultee was New York Governor Mario Cuomo. Even
his thick skin was pierced by disparging remarks on the
alleged Clinton-Gennifer Flowers tapes. He philosophized, "If
the alleged infidelity was the fact and there was also on the
tape the indication of snide condescension, bigotry, a
negative feeling toward other human beings as a group -- the
kind of thing that leads naturally to hate and divisiveness
-- if those were the two categories of actions you were
talking about, which would you say is worse for society?"
   Pondering the New York Post's coverage of all this, it
occurred to us that Gov. Cuomo didn't have much trouble
making up his mind about the authenticity of the tapes. He
may have been speeded toward this conclusion by the apology
he received from Gov. Clinton. "At the time the conversation
was held, there had been some political give and take between
myself and the governor, and I meant simply to imply that
Gov. Cuomo is a tough and worthy competitor," Gov. Clinton
explained. "If the remarks on the tape left anyone with the
impression that I was disrespectful to either Gov. Cuomo or
Italian-Americans, then I deeply regret it."
   The point here is not that the Clintons are Mr. and Mrs.
Malaprops; their problem is quite the opposite, they talk
just the way society somehow teaches political figures to
talk -- trying so hard not to give offense that offense
becomes inevitable. We would be better off with leaders who
hadn't been raised as politicians, but had done real things.
Football coaches and players, for example; it was not
Churchill but Wellington who said the battle of Waterloo was
won on the playing fields of Eton. Or failing that, bigtime
singers. Maybe we could even try a movie star.