PERSONAL TECHNOLOGY
   ---
   By Walter S. Mossberg
But Have Some Spots
                                                                                                       

   THESE WORDS were written in an airplane somewhere over the
Midwest, on one of the most innovative portable computers to
come along in the past year. It's called the PowerBook and is
the first notebook-size Macintosh.
   Apple Computer was late getting to market with a
notebook-size machine. But the top-of-the-line PowerBook 170
model I tested was elegantly designed and well built. The
three PowerBook models are, overall, excellent computers.
They include several features to enhance notebook computing,
but remain fully powered Macintoshes.
   That means the pint-size models, like all Macs, are easy
to master and use, because they rely on the path-breaking
Macintosh approach, in which users control the computer by
manipulating pictures and consistent, plain-English menus.
Behind this simple presentation, called a graphical
interface, there's ample computing power and speed to run a
wide range of serious software.
   But the hot-selling little Macs have some irritating
drawbacks. Their floppy disk drive design can cause real
headaches. In addition, the machines don't come equipped to
easily use floppy disks from IBM-compatible computers --
though Apple says it wants to sell these machines to
IBM-compatible owners. And the PowerBooks lack several
convenience features common on the many IBM-compatible
notebooks.
   The PowerBook that I tested fit easily on the pull-down
tray at my airplane seat. It had, without question, the
brightest, sharpest screen I've seen in a portable computer
-- easily readable either with sunlight streaming through the
window or in the dark during the bad in-flight movie.
                                                                                                       

   To eliminate the need for a dangling mouse pointing
device, Apple has built in a "trackball"a rotating sphere
inset below the keyboard that moves the cursor as you turn
it. There's also a large space on each side of the trackball
to rest your wrists. And there are retractable legs to
provide a comfortable typing angle.
   Under the hood, the top two PowerBook models -- the 170
and 140 -- have high-powered, fast processor chips, memory of
up to eight megabytes, and hard disk drives up to 40
megabytes in size -- plenty for mobile computing. Battery
life is good -- I got 2 1/2 to three hours per charge -- and
there's an on-screen battery gauge. The top two models weigh
6.8 pounds each, and the low-end 100 model, which lacks an
internal floppy disk drive, weighs just 5.1 pounds.
   The PowerBooks are tailored for communication. They have
built-in hardware and software for linking via cables to
other computers, and a 2,400-baud modem -- standard on the
170, optional on the others -- that transmits both data and
faxes. Apple also includes new software that lets a user dial
up a Macintosh in a remote location and tap into it, if he
has permission. I called my office Mac in Washington from a
hotel in San Francisco and transferred files by moving the
tiny onscreen pictures representing the files from a window
representing the remote Mac to a window representing my
PowerBook.
   The PowerBooks seem a bit pricey, though it's hard to put
a value on the Mac's trademark graphical interface, still
solidly superior to its most famous imitator, Microsoft's
IBM-compatible Windows program. The 170 sells for just under
$4,000, with four megabytes of memory and a 40megabyte hard
drive. The 140, which has a slightly inferior (but still
bright) screen, costs $2,300 to $2,700, depending on memory
and hard disk capacity. The model 100 costs just under
$2,000.
                                                                                                       

   For those prices, Apple should have done a better job on
the floppy disk drive. On early production models, electrical
interference from the screen made the drives falter when
trying to read some disks. Apple says that the bug is fixed,
and that fewer than 2% of the PowerBooks show any defects.
   But Apple officials concede that the PowerBooks still may
fail to read some disks produced for software companies by
disk-duplication firms. That's because the PowerBook's
slender disk drives are less tolerant of variations in the
duplication process than are the drives on bigger Macs. Both
Model 170s I used failed to read two of several dozen
commercial disks I tried (though the disks sometimes worked
if I dimmed the screen.) Apple says disk duplicators should
do better, but that isn't much consolation to a PowerBook
owner who can't use a newly purchased disk.
   In addition, Apple should have included free with the
PowerBooks special software that lets the Mac automatically
recognize disks from IBM-compatibles. The company is expected
to offer such software later this year, but as an extra-cost
option.
   Finally, the PowerBooks suffer from a not-invented-here
syndrome. Apple ignored some useful features common on other
notebooks, including: a socket for connecting external
monitors; function, "home" and "end" keys; and lights showing
disk drive activity and battery status (when the machine is
off).
   Apple, which is enamored of sound, includes a microphone
with each PowerBook. It would have been smarter to build in
more mundane, but more useful, features instead.