ENTERPRISE
   ----
   By Eugene Carlson
SOME Virginia entrepreneurs view growing white-collar
unemployment as an insurance marketing niche.
   Four former marketing and advertising executives without
previous insurance industry experience are offering job-loss
insurance coverage that isn't tied to credit cards or home
mortgages.
   "We think whole tiers of management are going to be
eliminated for companies to stay competitive," says Walt
Tudor, president of National Employment Trust, Richmond, Va.
"Twenty-five years and a gold watch is going to be pretty
rare."
   The firm's founders, using polling data from the Gallup
Organization, say up to 9% of employed people in the U.S. are
good prospects for layoff insurance.
   The company insures as much as 60% of gross wages or
salary for up to six months at a cost of $1 a month for each
$1,000 of annual income. The policies are underwritten by
Great American Insurance, Cincinnati.
   To guard against people rushing to sign up because they
have heard layoff rumors or think they are on thin ice, the
company says policyholders can't collect if a layoff comes
within a year of signing up. Also, people who could fire
themselves, such as the self-employed, can't buy the
coverage. And the policyholder's employer can't be under
federal bankruptcy protection.
   National Employment Trust, licensed in Pennsylvania and
Ohio, began offering policies last October. It is seeking
clearance to begin selling in Virginia and also plans to sell
its coverage through national trade organizations based in
Washington. For now, the company is selling coverage mainly
through insurance agents who present it as part of a
financial-planning package, akin to disability protection.
   Marketing will probably be delicate. "Do you say, `Hey, I
hear you're in danger of losing your job. Let me be your
friend'?" asks Sean Mooney, chief economist for the Insurance
Information Institute, New York.
   Mr. Tudor concedes that jobloss coverage "is a very tricky
product to underwrite." But he adds: "If the economy stays
soft, the short-term lack of confidence can only benefit
sales of our product.
                                                                                                       

   Taking Issue With Rules
   To Protect Teen-Agers
                                                                                                       

   FAST-FOOD restaurants and grocery stores are miffed over
new federal safety rules aimed at teen-agers.
   The Labor Department said that after last Dec. 20,
employees under age 18 can no longer legally operate or work
on electric meat slicers, or on power-driven baling machines
used for compacting paper and cardboard boxes. The ruling
clarified and broadened existing regulations that had been
the subject of industry complaints.
   The revised rules have businesses howling louder. The
National Restaurant Association, a trade group based in
Washington, says the changes were pushed by labor and child
advocacy groups. It says there's no statistical evidence that
electric slicers are dangerous to young workers.
   Edie Meleski, a spokeswoman for the Food Marketing
Institute, a grocery industry trade group, says store owners
should worry about government safety inspectors asking young
workers if they've ever tossed a piece of cardboard into a
baler, commonly found in grocery stockrooms. "That's
considered operating" the equipment under the revised rules,
she notes. "We're concerned about safety . . . but this could
have a chilling effect on teen employment."
   "A teen-ager can drive a car but can't throw a box in a
baling machine?" says Gary Bortnick, a vice president of
Magruders, a grocery chain based in Rockville, Md. "That's
silly." The revised rules, he says, "will be effective with
larger stores in areas that are up-to-date on the law, but
when you take it across the country with thousands of
one-store operators, I don't know how they can enforce it."
   Labor Secretary Lynn Martin says "many children have been
seriously injured by paper balers {or} by operating meat
slicers." The revised rules, she says, help "to ensure that
job opportunities for young workers are safe."
                                                                                                       

   Ad Agency Prescribes
   Growth by Franchising
                                                                                                       

   AN AD AGENCY makes a pitch for franchising.
   Unison Syndications, an Englewood, Colo., agency that
specializes in health-care advertising, thinks local
franchises are the best way to market its generic hospital
marketing campaigns. For $40,000, the agency provides a box
filled with ready-made advertising: videotaped television
spots, print ads, photographic transparencies and billboard
art. Franchises simply add names and logos of local
hospitals.
   Susan McClung, marketing director for the first franchise
outlet, Unison Mid-Atlantic in College Park, Md., says she
and a partner paid $70,000 for a territory that covers all or
part of six states and the District of Columbia.
   "We realized that we could take the campaign we developed
for a hospital in Salt Lake City and make it available, with
exclusivity, in other markets," says Ms. McClung, who
previously worked for the parent company. "There's no reason
it won't work as well for hospitals in California or West
Virginia."
                                                                                                       

   Odds and Ends
                                                                                                       

   ONLY 36% of 865 small firms regularly surveyed by the
   National Federation of Independent Business are borrowing
regularly, an indication of weak credit demand. . . . Nearly
half of 232 small, high-growth manufacturing and service
companies interviewed by Coopers  Lybrand say they have
adopted payroll plans that allow workers to pay for medical
insurance with pretax dollars.