Kimmins to Post
   Narrower Loss
   For 4th Quarter
   ----
   By R. Gustav Niebuhr
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
For the year ended Dec. 31, the company expects to report
net income of $2.1 million to $2.3 million, or 15 cents to 17
cents a share, compared with a net loss in 1990 of $1.8
million, or 14 cents a share. Sales were $96 million to
$100.6 million, compared with $99.3 million in 1990.
   As of Dec. 31, the company had 13,324,000 common shares
outstanding, compared with 12,760,000 a year ago.
   Over the past three years, Kimmins has been undergoing a
major transition, winding down or eliminating lower-volume
businesses, while investing heavily in building up its
solid-waste and environmental operations.
   As a result, Mr. Williams said in an interview, the
company's Florida solid-waste operations grew more than 70%
in 1991, despite the effects of the recession. He added he
expects that area to grow 30% to 40% annually this year and
next, as the economy improves and construction of
singlefamily homes in Florida rebounds.
   In environmental services, Kimmins established a national
presence by opening a pair of West Coast offices last year
and is heavily marketing its safety record, which Mr.
Williams said many companies consider as important a factor
in awarding contracts as price.
   He said Kimmins also is beginning to benefit from new
hazardous-waste site clean-up contracts being let by the
Defense Department and Department of Energy. The company has
been aided by a favorable change in government regulations
concerning bidding for Superfund site clean-up.
   Mr. Williams declined to offer estimates for the company's
performance in 1992. But he said that although he expects
sales from the first quarter of this year to be somewhat
"slow" -- a legacy of the recession -- Kimmins should
experience a "continuous pick-up" in business volume over the
next eight quarters.
   "The indications at Kimmins is we're going to see positive
impacts from the {improving} economy," he said.