Technology  Medicine:
   Potential Drug Is Reported for Treating
   AIDS-Related Kaposi's Skin Cancer
   ----
   By Jerry E. Bishop
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Rarely seen before 1979, Kaposi's sarcoma was thought to
afflict only some elderly men and others who might have a
weakened immune system. In 1979, a New York dermatologist,
Alvin Friedman-Kien, diagnosed a particularly aggressive form
of the strange skin cancer in several young homosexual men.
It was one of the first tip-offs that an epidemic of acquired
immunodeficiency syndrome, or AIDS, had broken out.
   Difficult to treat, the disease responds to both
interferon and some existing anti-cancer drugs. But they are
also toxic and can produce severe side effects.
   The new experimental drug was developed by Daiichi
Pharmaceutical Co. of Tokyo. It is composed of extracts of
the cell wall of the "Arthrobacter" bacterium. The
experimental drug is known as SP-PG (for sulfated
polysaccharide peptidoglycan).
   In a report in this week's issue of Science, a
Japanese-American team headed by noted U.S. cancer researcher
Robert C. Gallo, of the National Cancer Institute, described
test-tube and mouse experiments hinting that SP-PG might stop
the growth of Kaposi's sarcomas with little toxicity to the
patient.
   Daiichi and NCI said they have agreed to develop SP-PG for
testing in AIDS patients with Kaposi's sarcoma.
   In a statement, Dr. Gallo said the researchers had started
off looking for compounds that might stop incipient tumors
like those of Kaposi's sarcoma from forming new blood vessels
that permitted the tumors to grow. "Daiichi had data in the
literature showing that SP-PG interfered with blood-vessel
formation," Dr. Gallo said.
   The new research isn't involved in the controversy that
has swirled around Dr. Gallo for the last two to three years.
This controversy is centered on the question of whether Dr.
Gallo and his colleagues independently discovered the virus
that causes AIDS, or whether they obtained the virus from
French researchers.
   The new drug was found to stop the growth of Kaposi's
sarcoma cells cultured in the test tube and to stop these
cancer cells from inducing the growth of new blood vessels in
the membranes of chicken eggs, according to the report by Dr.
Gallo, Dr. Shuji Nakamura of the University of Southern
California, and the Daiichi researchers.
   When SP-PG was tested in immune-deficient mice that were
injected with Kaposi's sarcoma cells, the drug seemed to
prevent both the growth of blood vessels and the leakage of
fluid from existing blood vessels. One symptom of Kaposi's
sarcoma in its early stages is edema or swelling caused by
fluid leaking through the blood vessels.
   In these experiments, there was little evidence that SP-PG
damaged normal cells, suggesting that it might have far fewer
adverse effects than drugs currently used to treat Kaposi's
sarcoma.
   In related reports, three teams of researchers described
experiments in which a substance long thought to inhibit the
growth of cancer cells actually promoted the growth of
Kaposi's sarcoma. One team of scientists is from Immunex
Corp. and another team of American and Japanese scientists
includes two from Bristol-Myers Squibb Pharmaceutical
Research Institute in Seattle.