Soviet Immigrants
   Strain Resources
   Of Sleepy Israeli City
   ---
   Beersheba, in Negev Desert,
   Faces Rising Joblessness,
   School Crowding, Debt
   ----
   By Amy Dockser Marcus
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
To keep Soviet immigrants from concentrating in the
already congested Tel Aviv area, the Israeli government plans
to build a quarter of its new housing units in Beersheba, the
capital of the Negev Desert. But absorbing the tens of
thousands of immigrants who have already arrived is straining
the financially strapped city's resources.
   Unemployment is on the rise all over Israel. But
peripheral areas such as Beersheba, where jobs have
traditionally been scarce, are hardest hit. At a recent news
conference in Jerusalem, Natan Sharansky, head of the
immigrant self-help group Soviet Jewry Zionist Forum,
criticized the government for failing to allocate sufficient
funds to develop industry in these areas. The drop in the
number of immigrants arriving in Israel has also prompted the
Israeli left to step up its calls for a halt to settlements
on the occupied West Bank, arguing that the funds could be
better spent creating jobs.
   At the Forum's Beersheba office, Ava Schwartzman, the
group's adviser on employment, says the current jobs
situation is a "catastrophe." Ms. Schwartzman estimates that
40% of the city's Soviet immigrants can't find any work. Of
those that do, 80% are underemployed.
   Rita Ilithev, 51 years old, has been unemployed since
arriving in Israel 10 months ago. She says her Hebrew isn't
good enough to work as a kindergarten teacher, her profession
in the Soviet Union. But she is also having trouble finding
any sort of job. "There aren't even jobs cleaning homes
available anymore," says Ms. Ilithev.
   Sitting in her tiny room in the city's mobile home park,
Raisa Alikperov, 46, says she can't afford to move into
housing that the city is rushing to build to accommodate the
new immigrants. She's been in Israel 13 months and is
struggling to get by on $208 a month in unemployment
compensation. "I can't support myself, so how will I ever be
able to pay rent or pay back a mortgage?" she says.
   Many immigrants remain optimistic that some solution will
be found. But city officials say that without government
assistance, prospects for an economic turnaround are bleak.
   Beersheba Mayor Yitzhak Rager says the city's resources
can't be stretched much further. Beersheba already spends
$566 per capita in unemployment benefits, welfare and other
services, significantly higher than in other Israeli cities.
Recouping the money through city taxes is all but impossible
because the lack of industry has led many of the affluent and
better educated to move elsewhere.
   The Israeli parliament recently set up a committee to
examine Beersheba's economic woes and suggest solutions.
Mayor Rager is hoping that the government's decision last
month to grant the city preferential development area status,
including tax breaks and other financial incentives, will
bring in industry.
   "There is no more room for Jews in Tel Aviv. The future of
Israel is here, in Beersheba," says Mayor Rager. "But until
now we have been more than ignored. We have been neglected."