Economy:
   Japan's GNP
   Declined 0.05%
   In Latest Period
   ---
   Contraction Was the First
   In 2 Years; Repeat
   Seen in Current Quarter
   ----
   By Yumiko Ono
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Domestic demand fell in the latest quarter, while external
demand rose.
   The contraction, which didn't surprise economists, was
announced as concern about the nation's economic prospects
continued among business executives and government officials.
Almost daily, Japanese companies announce sharp reductions in
their profit forecasts for the current fiscal year, which
ends March 31. Slumping investor confidence caused the Nikkei
Stock Average to fall below 20000 on Monday for the first
time in five years. Although the average has recovered
somewhat, investors remain nervous.
   The dour economic news has sent Prime Minister Kiichi
Miyazawa, leaders of the Liberal Democratic Party and cabinet
officials scurrying to try to come up with ways to boost the
economy. Expectations have grown for weeks that the central
bank will cut its discount rate; major Japanese newspapers
speculated on Thursday that the bank will lower the lending
rate, currently at 4.5%, next week.
   Many officials in the public and private sectors have been
calling for a rate reduction. The latest such call was made
on Thursday by Rokuro Ishikawa, the chairman of the Japan
Chamber of Commerce and Industry, who urged the government to
swiftly announce measures to pump up the economy.
   The economy's performance in the December quarter means it
is even more unlikely that GNP growth in the full fiscal year
will reach the government target of 3.7%. In order to reach
that level, GNP will have to expand at least 1.67% in the
three months ending March 31 from the prior quarter,
government officials said. If the economy doesn't grow at all
in the quarter, the annual expansion will be 3.2%.
   Even EPA officials, while stressing that the December
quarter's contraction was expected, conceded that the 3.7%
target may be in doubt. "There is a possibility that (the
figure) will be slightly lower," said Shunji Fukinbara, EPA
vice minister.
   For their part, economists in the private sector said they
expect the economy to contract further in the March 31
quarter, leading to economic growth in the full fiscal year
of between 2.8% and 3.3%.
   Beyond the GNP data, the government has recently been
emphasizing gross domestic product, or GDP, which excludes
often-volatile net inflows of income from abroad and gives a
more consistent picture of the economy's trend. In contrast
to the decline in GNP, GDP edged up at an annual rate of 0.1%
in the December quarter.
   The economists were hardly surprised by the December
quarter's GNP decline, which was the first contraction since
the quarter ended June 30, 1989. Indeed, the slowdown would
have been even greater if it hadn't been for buoyant exports,
said Kenneth Courtis, strategist for Deutsche Bank Capital
Markets in Tokyo. During the quarter, a 0.5% contraction in
domestic demand from the previous quarter was offset by a
0.5% expansion in external demand. The numbers don't add up
to the 0.05% contraction because they are rounded off.
   Domestic demand, which consists of consumer spending and
capital expenditures, was weak because capital spending
dropped 0.6%, in contrast to a 0.7% rise in the previous
quarter. Although large companies continued to pour money
into investment, EPA officials said, smaller companies cut
back their spending plans.
   Personal consumption rose only 0.1%, below the September
quarter's 0.8% increase. Government officials explained that
consumers were moving away from purchase of luxury products
in favor of less-expensive, more-practical goods.
   In addition, spending for private housing fell 5% from the
previous quarter, the fifth consecutive quarterly decline. In
the September quarter, spending had decreased by a slower
2.3%.
   The weakening in domestic demand poses a problem for
Japan. Amid trade tensions with the U.S., Japan can't keep
boosting exports for much longer without triggering severe
criticism. In addition, although inventories fell 1.7% from
the September quarter, the government's overly optimistic
economic forecasts have been encouraging manufacturers to put
too many products into their inventories.
   "Those who have listened have assumed much stronger
(economic) growth than reality," Mr. Courtis said, and
inventory cycles will take longer to recover as a result. He
added that "1992 is a washout already."
   Mr. Courtis predicted that economic growth will remain at
a modest 2.8% in the year ending March 31 and in the
following fiscal year.
   Not all economists, however, are as pessimistic as Mr.
Courtis. In contrast to calendar 1991, when the economy was
getting worse, "things will get better" in the fiscal year
beginning April 1, said Matthew Berlow, an economist at
Credit Lyonnais Securities Ltd. In particular, personal
consumption is likely to be quite firm, he said.
   Although the annual Japanese wage increase is expected to
moderate to 4.8% this spring, wholesale prices also have
moderated, increasing consumers' buying ability. Mr. Berlow
predicted that the economy will grow in the current quarter,
and at the slowest rate of 1992's quarters.
   In calendar 1991, GNP grew 4.5%, slower then 1990's
revised 5.2%. Domestic demand contributed three percentage
points and external growth 1.4 points.