Industry Lobbying Drive Gives Voice
   To Women Favoring Breast Implants
   ----
   By Bruce Ingersoll
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
A multimillion-dollar media and lobbying campaign, being
underwritten by the nation's plastic surgeons and implant
makers, has given these women a powerful voice. Choreographed
by a contingent of high-paid Washington lobbyists, they have
flooded Congress and the media with their side of the story.
   Some 16 Dow Corning Corp. recruits assembled by the
public-relations powerhouse Burson-Marstellar are being
reimbursed for expenses and time off from work to speak of
their own experiences with breast implants. "What we're
harnessing is their own strong opinions on this issue," says
Barbara Carmichael, a spokeswoman for Dow Corning.
   One of the stars is Lora Brody of West Newton, Mass., who
has given dozens of newspaper and television interviews since
last November. Dow Corning covers her travel and child-care
expenses as well as bills for a separate telephone at home
and the cost of hiring temporary help for a political
mailing. "We present the other side," says Mrs. Brody, a
cookbook author, who has had no serious, but a few minor,
problems with her implants following cancer surgery. (Mrs.
Brody says she discloses that Dow Corning pays some of her
expenses.)
   Last October, 400 women, accompanied by their plastic
surgeons, flew here last October at the expense of the
American Society of Plastic and Reconstructive Surgeons to
lobby members of Congress. Women mobilized by the lobby also
sent Congress thousands of letters -- many ghostwritten by
publicists -- practically all making the same plea: Don't let
the FDA usurp a woman's right to have silicone implants.
   The plastic surgeons' society, fearful of losing the $330
million a year its members bill for implant surgery, has put
together a $1.3 million fund for lobbying. Result: Lobbyist
Roger Stone is trading on his high-level contacts among
Republican lawmakers, Bush administration officials and the
conservative press to make their case.
   Deborah Steelman, a rising star among GOP lobbyists, is,
as one White House staffer puts it, "talking to anybody who
will listen," including Roger Porter, domestic policy
adviser. Stuart Pape of the law firm of Patton, Boggs  Blow
is working the corridors of Congress and the FDA.
   Meanwhile, Dow Corning has a team of King  Spalding
lawyers defending its interests at the FDA, while
Burson-Marsteller has been mobilizing support among women and
medical professionals.
   When swarms of women from 37 states thronged Capitol Hill
offices last fall, the plastic surgeons' society paid their
transportation and hotel bills, says Norman Cole, the group's
president. "The women were tremendously effective," he says.
"Pretty soon, I just trailed behind."
   A massive letter-writing campaign was as successful as the
fly-in. Rep. Ted Weiss, the Democrat of New York who pushed
to have implants investigated, got thousands of letters, and
Sen. Edward Kennedy, chairman of the Senate Labor and Human
Resources Committee, Utah Republican Orrin Hatch and Michigan
Rep. John Dingell were similarly deluged. The flood of mail
was sustained by a $150,000 newspaper ad campaign, urging
women to write or telephone several key members of Congress.
The FDA received an unprecedented 20,000 letters on the
issue. The congressional Women's Caucus told FDA Commissioner
David Kessler: "We believe there is compelling evidence to
suggest that it would be unwise to curtail access to breast
implants at this time."
   Mr. Pape, the Patton Boggs partner, and Nancy Taylor, Ms.
Steelman's aide and former health-issues adviser to Sen.
Hatch, made the rounds on the Hill and arranged
executive-branch entrees for plastic surgeons. Mr. Stone saw
to it that key policy makers in the White House and Congress
were properly briefed. And Wayne Pines, a top executive in
Burson-Marsteller's Washington office, advised Dow Corning
officials on strategy.
   Dow Corning and the plastic surgeons' society are trying
to counterbalance the "professional" anti-implant lobby,
including the Public Citizen Health Research Group; the trial
lawyers who buy the group's $750 kit of scientific evidence
for product liability suits against implant makers; and the
Command Trust Network of 8,000 women who have had implant
complications.
   Sidney Wolfe, the Health Research Group's director and a
frequent guest on television talk shows on this issue, scoffs
at the notion of his commanding a professional lobby. "We
haven't put any pressure on the Hill," he says. "Those who
are saying this issue should be resolved on the basis of
science are the ones who are doing the lobbying."
   Kathleen Anneken, a Fort Mitchell, Ky., nurse who
co-founded the network with Sybil Goldrich of Beverly Hills,
Calif., in 1989, says it has had only $30,000 in donations to
build a nationwide educational network of implant victims.
Implant advocates have "accused us of being so powerful,"
says Ms. Anneken. "All we did is talk to hundreds of
reporters."