Cigna Is Ordered to Pay $5.3 Million
   For Selling Risky Investments to Retiree
   ----
   By Michael Siconolfi
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The huge award is a stirring example of the rise in
punitive damage awards in securities-law disputes. In the
past four years, there have been about 100 punitive-damage
awards to investors totaling nearly $25 million. Punitive
damages are awarded to punish and deter a defendant found to
have acted recklessly or maliciously. Appeals of arbitration
rulings are rare because grounds for reversals are narrow
under the Federal Arbitration Act.
   In a separate case, an arbitration panel said brokerage
firms don't have a duty to prevent investors from using
foolhardy strategies that wipe out their accounts. That case
was widely watched by securities executives and was a victory
for Wall Street.
   The Cigna Securities Inc. case was filed in 1990 by George
Gage, a 66-year-old former GTE Corp. executive. Mr. Gage says
he wanted safe investments for his nearly $2 million in
retirement funds. Instead, Cigna put him into 12 risky
limited partnerships that lost about 90% of their value,
according to papers filed with arbitrators.
   The value of the partnerships -- nine real-estate, two
oil-and-gas and one high-tech venture -- has slumped to below
$150,000. But Cigna falsely told Mr. Gage his investments
were doing far better than that, the investor told
arbitrators. During the five years at Cigna, the firm also
charged Mr. Gage $22,000 for financial-planning advice, the
investor said.
   In a harshly worded award, a three-member panel of the
National Association of Securities Dealers said it levied the
$3.5 million punitive-damage award because "the actions and
inactions of {Cigna} . . . constituted a willful, wanton and
methodical scheme to deceive claimants." It also said Cigna
must pay $1.8 million in compensatory damages to cover Mr.
Gage's loss.
   In a statement, Cigna said it is "surprised and
disappointed" with the award, adding: "We strongly take issue
with the findings."
   In the other case, a two-member panel of the American
Arbitration Association ruled that Advest Group Inc., a
Hartford, Conn., broker, didn't have to pay damages to a New
York investor who lost his $2 million life savings in a few
days through risky option strategies.
   The ruling is significant because it contradicts three
earlier arbitration rulings involving Wall Street firms. In
those cases -- involving Dean Witter Reynolds Inc., Quick 
Reilly Group Inc. and Charles Schwab  Co. -- the firms were
held liable for allowing investors to get in over their
heads. Unlike federal court decisions, arbitration rulings
don't have precedential value.
   "While a brokerage firm can decide to refuse orders
implementing a foolhardy strategy, and it can send the
customer packing . . . it is not required to do that," said
arbitrator Gary Greenberg in an unusually lengthy 71-page
decision.
   Though he ruled for Advest, Mr. Greenberg said the
brokerage firm did "deceive and mislead {the investor} and
breached duties owed to him as a customer in violation" of
exchange rules and New York tort law. Mr. Greenberg
recommended that Advest be "censured and fined by the
appropriate regulatory authorities."
   "We don't think anything of the kind occurred," said R.
Jeffrey More, a lawyer in New York representing Advest.
   ---
   Corrections  Amplifications
                                                                                                       

   ADVEST GROUP Inc. attorneys disputed parts of an
arbitrator's written opinion in a case involving a brokerage
firm's duties to a customer who is pursuing foolhardy
investment strategies. Though finding for Advest, one of two
arbitrators ruling in the case criticized the firm for
mishandling of the client's account. "We don't think anything
of the kind occurred," said R. Jeffrey More, a lawyer in New
York representing Advest.
   (WSJ March 13, 1992)