Commodities:
   Cattle Prices Rise, Boosted by Rumors That U.S.
   Is Close to Setting Deal to Send Meat to C.I.S.
   ----
   By Jeffrey Taylor
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
One quirk amid yesterday's export speculation was that
although it involved possible exports of pork, it had a
stronger price impact on cattle futures. Analysts attributed
this to demand relationships between the cash markets for
cattle and pork that have little to do with the supply of
cattle available at the moment.
   On cash markets, cattle prices are well below their
year-ago levels, although the number of cattle on feed lots
isn't much different than it was a year earlier. In the first
quarter of 1991, choice steers were selling for about 80
cents a pound; the same steers now bring about 74 cents a
pound.
   "That's not because we're expecting a lot more cattle to
be marketed," said Charles Levitt, livestock analyst for
Shearson Lehman Brothers in Chicago. "If anything, the
marketings are going to be very similar."
   Rather, the discrepancy is based on a big increase in the
supply of cheap pork and poultry. Increasing pork production
has been a drag on cash and futures pork prices for months,
and these prices are expected to continue to be weak
throughout the winter and spring. Poultry prices also are
low.
   This means consumers can choose from an array of
relatively low-priced meats and have less incentive to buy
beef, the most expensive meat. And recession fears have made
consumers even more reluctant to buy steaks and roasts.
   The indication that large quantities of pork may be
shipped to the C.I.S., in effect, slightly diminishes the
competition beef faces from pork for consumer dollars,
analysts said. As a result, at the Chicago Mercantile
Exchange yesterday the price of the cattle contract for April
delivery rose 1.02 cents to settle at 75.50 cents a pound.
   The April hog contract also found some price support from
the rumors, rising 0.20 cents to 39.35 cents a pound.
   In other commodity markets yesterday:
                                                                                                       

   PRECIOUS METALS: Futures prices were little changed. Gold
for February delivery rose 20 cents an ounce to $358.40.
March silver ended 0.8 cent an ounce higher at $4.285. April
platinum finished at $343.40 an ounce, up 50 cents. Dinsa
Mehta, chief bullion trader at Chase Manhattan Bank, said the
precious metals markets "are fighting to hold onto their
gains. They are reluctant to go up much further, but not
selling off easily either." The metals are "vulnerable" in
the short-term and might decline, he said, but added that
prices would likely edge back up over the next six months.
William O'Neill, senior futures strategist at Merrill Lynch,
said silver's rally may not yet be over, and prices may run
up again after this pause. The possibility that President
Bush will unveil during his state of the union address later
this month strong measures to bolster the economy has lent
support to precious metals, he said. Stronger economic growth
would enhance demand for industrial metals such as silver and
platinum, and renew interest in gold as an inflation hedge.
                                                                                                       

   ORANGE JUICE: Futures prices continued to slide. Juice for
March delivery lost 3.5 cents a pound to end at $1.4155.
Sandra Kaul, analyst at Shearson Lehman Brothers, said prices
are approaching levels where profit-taking by traders with
short positions should begin to support prices. Traders take
profits on short positions, or bets prices will fall, by
buying offsetting contracts. For the next few months,
supplies will continue to be abundant, even though this
year's Florida crop is projected to be small, she said. Very
heavy imports of Brazilian juice between October and December
have yet to be worked down, she said. Meanwhile, Florida is
in the peak of its harvest period, she said. But lower prices
now are likely to stimulate demand, which will make the
projected shortfall of supplies toward the end of the season
more severe and drive prices higher, she predicted.
Meanwhile, he said, prices will probably stabilize in a range
of $1.40 to $1.60.
                                                                                                       

   CRB FUTURES INDEX: The index of 21 futures prices ended at
210.28, down 0.52 point. The CRB may be in a bottoming
process, said John Murphy, an Oradell, N.J., consultant. The
index fell to around 207 earlier in the month, but bounced
back to above 210, he pointed out. Also encouraging was the
index's ability to stay above last year's low of around 205,
he said. The index might be reflecting market sentiment that
the economy is improving, he said, noting that strength in
some industrial markets such as silver and copper contributed
to the index's rise. But the index would have to rise above
220 to prove it has really hit bottom and is in a rising
trend, he said. He added that he thinks the index probably
will move sideways for a while.