The Pioneers:
   A Small Joint Venture
   Is Leading the Way
   In Getting Russian Oil
   ---
   Texans and Siberians Battle
   Cold, Inflation and Politics
   While Bigger Firms Wait
   ---
   Sharing CIA, KGB Secrets
   ----
   By Robert Johnson and Allanna Sullivan
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Mr. Labbe's garage is fancier than most of the homes in
the Siberian town of Raduzhny, where Mr. Tajrinsk and 1,000
countrymen are on the payroll of a new Russian-American joint
venture to find and export oil. Mr. Labbe's little company,
Anglo-Suisse L.P., and Salomon Inc.'s Phibro Energy unit are
gambling $100 million on a partnership with the Russians.
   While oil giants from Amoco Corp. to Societe Elf Aquitaine
of France cautiously wait to see who's really in charge of
the former Soviet Union, the upstarts at Anglo-Suisse and
Phibro are charging ahead: getting the permit signatures of
52 officials from Siberia to Moscow, erecting $45 million
worth of new rigs amid rusting Soviet equipment and importing
60 "roughneck" oil workers from Texas. They began drilling
and exporting oil on Aug. 19-one day before the doomed coup
attempt by Communist hard-liners.
   Although many larger oil companies are busily chasing
agreements in the new commonwealth, the Anglo-Suisse venture
is six months ahead of them and its experience is a test case
that seems to be on track so far. Among the oil companies
planning eventual production out of Siberia are U.S. industry
heavyweights Chevron Corp., Texaco Inc. and Exxon Corp.
   "The big oil companies are looking at this as a bellwether
for the potential of Russian oil," says Daniel Yergin, an oil
industry consultant and author of "The Prize," a history of
global petroleum development. Russia's proven reserves are
estimated at 60 billion barrels, though some Western analysts
say there could be closer to 250 billion barrels, approaching
Saudi Arabia's total. The lack of money and modern equipment
has limited both exploration and production. "It may be the
last great oil frontier," says Mr. Yergin.
   Just yesterday, a Japanese-U.S. consortium consisting of
Mitsui  Co., McDermott International Inc. and Marathon Oil
Co. won a contract to study the feasibility of developing
huge oil reserves located off Sakhalin Island, near the east
coast of Siberia. The consortium beat out six other groups of
bidders, which included such big-name oil companies as Exxon
and Mobil Corp. At best, the first oil will flow in three or
four years -- and even then, there's no guarantee that the
companies doing the feasibility study will get the contracts
to develop the fields.
   There is at least one other upstart pumping oil in
Siberia, a joint venture put together by Canadian Fracmaster
Ltd. of Calgary. It has been operating for about two years
and is exporting about 20,000 barrels a day.
   Small independent operators have trailblazed for the last
100 years in the oil patch from Beaumont, Texas, to the
bottom of the Gulf of Mexico. Traditionally, they open new
fields with a few wells, poorly capitalized, and watch Big
Oil surround them. Yet more than 5,000 independents still
exist in the U.S., and Anglo-Suisse says there's plenty of
room for the Amocos and Chevrons to co-exist with them in
Russia. "Let them come in with the big money that will build
the roads, more pipelines and stores out here," says Mr.
Labbe.
   White Nights, as his Russian-American venture is known,
had flown its own flag: a white chess knight and a red
hammer-and-sickle on a blue background. Now that Russia is an
independent republic in a new commonwealth, the Communist
emblem is gone and the flag is being redesigned with Russia's
historic red and white stripes.
   "We need a symbol, you say -- a logo -- we can put someday
on our service stations in America. Why not a White Nights on
the corner across from Texaco?" dreams Alexander Ignatiev, a
vice president in the joint venture. He's the former deputy
chief engineer of the former Soviet Union's Varyegan
Production Association, one of 22 regional production
concerns that operated with varying degrees of autonomy under
the Kremlin. Now, each is largely on its own unless officials
of the newly emerging republics say otherwise.
   "The new governments will leave us alone as long as we pay
taxes in U.S. dollars. They can't afford to meddle with any
economic venture that's going well," says Mr. Ignatiev,
tapping a Marlboro on his gold cigarette lighter.
   His confidence is enhanced by White Nights seismic studies
projecting production by the company of more than 200,000
barrels a day by 1995, equaling the entire output of Ecuador,
a member of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries. Further, Anglo-Suisse and Phibro say they're
nearing agreement with the Russians on an even larger joint
Siberian venture in a separate oil field.
   Such cooperation blazes a new trail in Russian-American
relations. The Anglo-Suisse engineers share declassified
reports on Siberian resources by the Central Intelligence
Agency, and the Russians reveal the locations of pipelines to
the Black Sea that were KGB secrets until recently.
   Mr. Labbe is a 45-year-old former Texaco Inc. engineer
turned promoter. He has hammered out contracts to squeeze oil
from worked-over fields in Morocco, Pakistan and Indonesia
since 1984. The privately held company had about $10 million
in revenue last year and has operated in the black for all of
its seven years, Mr. Labbe says.
   He created the name Anglo-Suisse to disguise the company's
American origin when operating in potentially unfriendly
foreign locations. "It sounds Swiss. Almost nobody hates the
Swiss," reasons Charles Brunet, a vice president.
   Mr. Labbe hit on the Siberian idea at 6 a.m. one February
day in 1990 when he met some Russian Embassy officials
looking for a tennis game on a court in Rangoon, Burma. They
invited him to Moscow and later to Siberia, where he flew in
by helicopter. "Coming in low, you can see oil rig after rig
for hundreds of miles. There's nothing like it anywhere in
the world," he says. But much of the drilling equipment is in
need of repair or replacement, and Mr. Labbe saw opportunity
in that.
   By June 1990, Anglo-Suisse had its joint-venture agreement
signed with the Siberians. Obtaining the 52 required permits
took another six months. By the spring of 1991, the company
brought in the first of its current five new oil rigs by
freighters leaving the Houston docks. A half-dozen more are
scheduled for delivery this year. Anglo-Suisse says its
Siberian capital-spending budget, thanks largely to its
Salomon backing, is $70 million this year.
   Mr. Ignatiev's profit guess for White Nights: nearly $1.9
billion over the next 25 years, divided evenly by the
Russians and the Americans.
   But their plans face plenty of potential pitfalls. For
example, inflation in the new Russian republic has already
more than tripled prices on everything from fuel for the
company's chartered supply planes from Moscow to the
domestically made, Jeep-style Vaz vehicles needed to cross
Siberia's tundra. Local vendors routinely urge White Nights
officials to trade in black-market products to get better
deals. "They want dollars, but it isn't legal to pay that way
-- yet," says Jerry Walston, the joint venture's director in
Raduzhny.
   Then there's the political uncertainty. White Nights
officials worry they haven't even met the new Russian
president, Boris Yeltsin. And the Americans can't help
recalling that British oil engineers in Russian fields were
jailed and roughly deported by Bolsheviks who nationalized
oil fields in 1920.
   Siberia's weather obviously doesn't help. Located just 250
miles south of the Arctic Circle, the White Nights operation
has a policy that workers can stay home when the temperature
falls to 36 degrees below zero; it has happened five times
this winter. (Why 36 below? No specific reason. "You have to
set the number at something. You can't just say go home when
it gets real cold -- not in Siberia," says one Anglo-Suisse
official.)
   Actually, the temperature has hit 60 below once already
this winter. That's one reason other companies are skeptical
about the risks and rewards of getting oil from Siberia. "I
know for a fact it's too cold out there to even do seismic
surveys right now," says a skeptical Elf Aquitaine spokesman,
Tom Saunders, adding that he doubts drilling can continue
unabated in the cold.
   Mr. Ignatiev, a beefy 36-year-old, scoffs at such
criticism. "The French are accustomed to warm climates, like
the Riviera. Let them work in the Sahara. After the Americans
take a chance on us and it pays off, we'll need new roads
into Siberia for all the Westerners who'll want to follow,"
he says.
   Maybe, but so far there isn't any payoff, White Nights
officials concede. The Russian-American agreement calls for a
50-50 split of profits, when there are some. And the first
20,000 barrels a day must be for internal Russian use, for
which Anglo-Suisse gets nothing. So far, production has
reached only a modest 25,000 barrels a day, too little to pay
for operating costs.
   "Look, there are billions of barrels out here and the
Russian partners know where it is. They just need our
technology and our money to get it out," says White Nights'
Mr. Walston. "The risks are mainly political," he says. But
Mr. Ignatiev thinks the worst of those are over. "Look, the
Americans here already survived the coup. We saw only one
tank out here and it just passed by. Now they're surviving
the commonwealth," he says.
   Indeed, in Raduzhny, a town of 50,000, so primitive that
many residents live in abandoned oil tanks and much of the
town is without hot water, the Americans are popular. White
Nights has spent more than $2 million to fly in a
prefabricated recreation center as a gift to the town, and to
buy clothes and snowmobiles for some residents. Some of the
Western meat, bread and butter flown in on White Nights
charters is distributed to the company's Russian workers.
Anatoly Loshakov, mayor of nearby Sorgut, welcomes the shared
largess. "We need food," he says simply.
   Mr. Loshakov says White Nights generosity is building a
strong base of political support that will help ward off
political interference from Moscow. Russian engineers
returning from consulting trips to Anglo-Suisse headquarters
in Houston spread stories of the relative wealth of consumers
in that energy center. One Russian says he wept after touring
the pet aisle of a Fiesta supermarket and counting 20 brands
of dog food. "So much, so much," he exclaims.
   The Americans offer their Siberian counterparts a glimpse
of how oil exports can improve the quality of life. Until the
joint venture -- and the loosening of bureaucratic
restrictions from Moscow -- Soviet oil was just another
sagging socialist bureaucracy. Workers were being laid off
and wells were often closed after being emptied of only 30%
of their contents because of aging equipment. Overall
production has slipped to 10 million barrels a day from 12
million in 1989. Exports have plunged by about a third.
   Thus, enthusiasm for Western expertise is building.
Western wages are welcome, too. White Nights' Russian rig
workers are paid the rubles equivalent of $120 a year, little
by American standards but twice the typical per capita income
in Siberia.
   All of which keeps morale high both in Siberia and here at
Anglo-Suisse's Houston offices, where Russian and American
engineers wear golf shirts adorned with White Nights chess
pawns while planning future wells. Humor abounds. Mr. Labbe
points to Mr. Ignatiev and says dryly, "He was nothing"
before teaming with the Americans.
   Retorts Mr. Ignatiev playfully: "Without our oil, you're
nothing."