Washington Wire:
   A Special Weekly Report From
   The Wall Street Journal's
   Capital Bureau
   ----
   Compiled by Rich Jaroslovsky
Bush budgeteers toy with giving taxpayers incentives to
shift money from existing IRAs to new types, a move that
would generate revenue for tax cuts now but widen future
deficits.
                                                                                                       

   BUSH TELLS Asian allies more will be expected of them on
security issues.
   While the president publicly stresses the continuing U.S.
presence during his current trip, aides say the message in
private meetings is that, as one puts it, "it's no longer
going to be the U.S. doing it alone with the others being
passive spectators."
   The president this weekend is expected to announce
additions to an existing pact with Singapore that let some
U.S. personnel and equipment use and train on Singapore-owned
bases. He is also likely to make some announcements related
to security in the Pacific after the U.S. withdraws from
Subic Bay naval base in the Philippines.
                                                                                                       

   ELBOWS OUT: Bush and Buchanan jostle for position in New
Hampshire.
   The president plans three trips there before the Feb. 18
primary, and pressure from challenger Buchanan may lead him
to spend even more time. Bush's campaign will stress meetings
with ordinary citizens and emphasize he's a "conservative
president" with "conservative accomplishments."
   Buchanan plans to open his "America first" drive in New
Hampshire next Thursday with a major speech at Dartmouth. He
hires former Sununu aide Tess Petix as press secretary and
enlists former Gov. Meldrim Thompson. But he fights a
rear-guard action against the state party; Petix charges
"pressure from above" led to Buchanan appearances being
canceled at two Lincoln Day dinners.
   State leaders hope to enlist Bush to spur business in New
Hampshire. "We're going to take full advantage of him," says
Gov. Judd Gregg.
                                                                                                       


the Domestic Policy Council. The council was all but moribund
under the chairmanship of former Attorney General Thornburgh,
and successor Barr isn't eager to revive it. If the council
folds, health reform would probably be handled by the
Economic Policy Council.
                                                                                                       

   HELP WANTED: The administration starts to assemble
candidates to replace Comptroller of the Currency Robert
Clarke, who failed to win Senate approval for a second term.
The list includes Timothy Ryan, chairman of the Office of
Thrift Supervision; former American Bankers Association
President Richard Kirk; Stephen Steinbrink, who runs the
supervision division in the comptroller's office; and Nevins
Baxter, a bank consultant.
                                                                                                       

   YELTSIN SUCCEEDS in keeping Moscow, despite the turmoil
there, as the site for the Mideast multinational conference
later this month to discuss such regional issues as arms
control and the environment. Bulgaria tells Jordan it would
like to hold future talks in Sofia; Japan also pitches to
host the discussions, which could last for years.
                                                                                                       

   CALIFORNIA ADDED 620,000 people between the April 1, 1990,
census and July 1, 1991, the Census Bureau says. That's an
increase greater than the entire population of Alaska,
Vermont, Wyoming or the District of Columbia.
                                                                                                       

   JUSTICES WILL HEAR a number of major business cases this
month.
   The Supreme Court will take up important cases on
corporate taxes, product liability, employee benefits and
antitrust. Cases from Wisconsin and North Dakota raise the
issue of how far states may go in taxing out-of-state
companies that do business in-state. Hundreds of millions of
dollars are at stake in industries such as mail-order
retailing.
   The high court will also hear the FTC's argument that some
of the nation's biggest title-insurance companies are
illegally fixing prices. And in possibly the single biggest
business dispute on the January docket, the court has asked
for re-argument on whether smokers may file injury lawsuits
against cigarette companies even though the tobacco giants
comply with the federal warning-label law.
   The case may give new Justice Thomas his first chance to
decide a major controversy; the other justices are thought to
be split 4-4 on the issue.
                                                                                                       

   MINOR MEMOS: The State Department's Soviet affairs office
becomes ISCA, the office of Independent States and
Commonwealth Affairs. . . . A Washington dry cleaner offers
the jobless free cleaning of a suit and three shirts upon
presentation of a "current unemployment insurance stub." . .
. It's everywhere: New Year's night viewers of Russia's
Channel 2 television saw, for the first time, "It's a
Wonderful Life."