Sports:
   Nintendo Group
   Offers to Buy
   Seattle Mariners
   ----
   By Ken Yamada
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The bid is certain to evoke opposition from Major League
Baseball and fans, possibly igniting another round of
Japan-bashing in the U.S. Fay Vincent, the baseball
commissioner, immediately indicated yesterday that he would
try to block the offer. "Baseball has addressed the issue of
ownership of its franchises and has developed a strong policy
against approving investors from outside the U.S. and
Canada," he said in a statement. "It is unlikely foreign
investors would receive the requisite baseball approvals."
   The group said it submitted the offer to team owner Jeff
Smulyan and was ready to deposit $5 million into an escrow
account as part of its offer. Mr. Smulyan has offered to sell
the team for $100 million to investors who would keep the
American League franchise in Seattle. A spokesman for Mr.
Smulyan said the Mariners haven't seen the offer yet and
couldn't comment.
   With a 60% stake in the Baseball Club of Seattle, the
Yamauchi family would control the Mariners if the offer is
accepted, according to a news release that the group issued.
But the rest of the group includes such heavyweight Pacific
Northwest business leaders as John McCaw Jr., a director of
McCaw Cellular Communications Inc.; John W. Ellis, chairman
and chief executive officer of Puget Sound Power  Light Co.;
Frank Shrontz, chairman and chief executive of Boeing Co.;
and Christopher R. Larson of Microsoft Corp.
   To head off controversy, the group members stressed their
local connections and said the Yamauchi investment would be
managed by 15-year Pacific Northwest resident Minoru Arakawa,
president of Nintendo America Inc., which is located in
Redmond, Wash. Mr. Arakawa is also Mr. Yamauchi's son-in-law.
   Mr. Arakawa said in a statement that the proposed
acquisition was his family's way of thanking the area that's
home to Nintendo America. "The family's only motivation along
with other interested parties," Mr. Arakawa said, "is to help
this community save major league baseball."
   The group made its announcement before presenting the
offer to the team to avoid leaks of inaccurate information, a
spokesman for Mr. McCaw said. The members must have known
that some people would see the bid as foreign infringement on
what is marketed as America's favorite pastime. In addition,
it comes at a time when Japan-bashing has become a favorite
pastime of presidential candidates and Detroit auto chiefs,
and just two days after Los Angeles withdrew a railcar
contract awarded to Sumitomo Corp., saying the contract
should create jobs in the U.S.
   Commissioner Vincent in the past has favored local
ownership, but in this case, control would reside with a
definite outsider, Mr. Yamauchi. But the league hasn't
blocked previous out-of-state ownership of the Mariners. They
once were owned by California real-estate developer George
Argyros, and now by Mr. Smulyan, whose Emmis Broadcasting is
headquartered in Indianapolis.
   Peter O'Malley, Los Angeles Dodgers president, said he was
surprised by the offer and that baseball officials will look
at it carefully. "Local ownership with strong community
involvement is always most desirable," he said.
   In 1989, Mr. Smulyan paid $76 million to Mr. Argyros for
the Mariners, which didn't have a winning season until last
year. Since he bought the team, Mr. Smulyan has had losses of
about $18 million to $20 million on the franchise, his
spokesman said, despite excellent attendance. The loss has
been partly blamed on the lack of a lucrative
cable-television contract. His spokesman said 1991 revenue
was $36 million, or "less than the payrolls of other clubs."
   In an effort to keep the team in Seattle, U.S. Sen. Slade
Gorton (R., Wash.) talked to Mr. Arakawa and other members of
the local business community. A precedent for foreign
investment, Sen. Gorton said, was set "20 years ago when
Canadians bought National and American league teams."
   A spokeswoman for Nintendo in Tokyo said the company
decided to participate in the acquisition after receiving
requests at the beginning of January from Washington state
officials. She said Mr. Yamauchi spoke with Sen. Gorton and
Washington Gov. Booth Gardner. "We have no intention of
making use of {the acquisition} in our business," she said.
"We wondered if we could be of some use to the community."
She said the company realizes there may be negative feelings
against the offer in the U.S., adding that Nintendo officials
weren't positive the offer would be accepted.