House Drops Corporate Rate Reduction
   From Proposed Legislation to Cut Taxes
   ----
   By Jeffrey H. Birnbaum
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Meanwhile, in the Senate, Chairman Lloyd Bentsen (D.,
Texas) of the Finance Committee agreed to prepare a bill that
would finance any tax cuts with increases in other taxes,
rather than with cuts in military spending. That decision
placated Appropriations Committee Chairman Robert Byrd (D.,
W. Va.), whose cooperation is needed if a tax bill is to
pass.
   Yesterday's developments improved the prospects Congress
will approve a tax bill. But lawmakers still appear headed
toward a direct confrontation with President Bush, who
opposes Democrats' continued insistence on raising taxes on
wealthy individuals.
   The House Democrats' bill, which would give tax relief to
middle-income individuals and increase taxes on the wealthy,
is expected to come to a vote in that chamber next week. "The
bill will pass," Speaker House Thomas Foley (D., Wash.)
predicted. It will be considered along with Republican
alternatives, which would emphasize investment incentives and
wouldn't raise taxes.
   Sen. Bentsen's committee will begin to devise its tax plan
next week. The measure is likely to be similar in concept, if
not in every detail, to the House Democrats' plan. Sen.
Bentsen declined to discuss the components of his proposal.
But lawmakers expect that the panel will endorse some form of
tax reduction for middle-income families, a tax increase for
high-income earners and a smattering of provisions to promote
investment.
   In addition, the Finance Committee is expected to attach a
number of health provisions to its tax bill, including
measures that would make health insurance more affordable and
easier to obtain. Democrats are eager to outdo the president
in this election-year issue.
   The finance panel's bill, once completed, probably would
run into a partisan wrangle on the Senate floor. President
Bush has said he would oppose any bill that would raise
taxes, even on the wealthy, and Republican senators are
considered likely to tie up any such measure with a
filibuster or a long series of amendments.
   Such a tactic could make it difficult for Congress to get
a tax bill to the president's desk by his March 20 deadline,
though Democrats already are preparing to blame Mr. Bush and
his fellow Republicans for causing such a delay.
   Still, the chance of getting a tax bill to the president
was enhanced when Sen. Bentsen reversed his earlier position
and acceded to Sen. Byrd's demand that the so-called peace
dividend be used to pay for increased domestic spending
rather than tax cuts.
   The health measures Mr. Bentsen plans to include in the
tax bill are part of a bill he introduced last fall. They
would prohibit insurance companies from denying coverage to
people with medical conditions and protect people with health
problems from losing their health insurance if they change
jobs. They also would allow self-employed people to deduct
the full cost of health insurance from their taxes and expand
Medicare to cover more preventive care services, such as
influenza shots and cancer screening.
   House Ways and Means Committee Chairman Dan Rostenkowski
introduced a companion bill to Mr. Bentsen's health
legislation, but he isn't expected to try to attach it to tax
legislation.
   Before dropping the proposed corporate tax-rate cut
yesterday, House Democrats had agreed on Wednesday to scale
it back by recommending that it last just two years rather
than permanently. The Democrats on the Ways and Means
Committee did away with the tax-rate cut entirely because
their Democratic colleagues continued to complain about it.
   The corporate community, which stood to benefit most from
the one percentage point cut snubbed the idea. Big-business
lobbyist Charls E. Walker campaigned vigorously against the
reduction, saying he preferred instituting generous tax
breaks targeted at capital-intensive companies such as those
he represents.
   Even the Tax Reform Action Coalition, a group of lobbyists
that was established to press for corporate tax-rate cuts,
shunned the Democrats' bill, apparently because it also
included a proposed increase in taxes on high-income people.
At a meeting yesterday of the coalition, no one even raised
the prospect of supporting the Democrats' plan, said one
participant.
   Separately, the House Government Operations Committee took
the first step toward altering the 1990 budget agreement in a
way that would permit funds cut from the military to be used
to increase domestic spending.
   The 1990 pact requires that any savings from projected
levels of military spending be used to reduce the budget
deficit. The committee bill would allow such money to be
spent for nonmilitary purposes. The effort is given a good
chance of approval in both the Senate and the House, where it
is backed by Democratic leaders.