Republics' Fate Hinges on U.S. Economic Policy
   ----
   By William A. Mundell
The Soviets were beneficiaries of a massive windfall
resulting from the explosion of world commodity prices during
the 1970s. Oil, natural gas, coal, gold, other metals and
diamonds all jumped in price after 1972. Excessively loose
U.S. monetary policy was one of the principal causes of this
commodity inflation, both by raising commodity prices in the
American market and by forcing America's major trading
partners to inflate or see their currencies appreciate
against the U.S. dollar. Increased global liquidity also
helped fuel a dramatic expansion of hard-currency loans to
the Soviet empire.
   High commodity prices financed assistance to the Soviet
satellites. The Soviets bought overpriced (by world market
standards) finished goods from Eastern Europe which, in turn,
bought underpriced raw commodities from the Soviets. These
practices were quite extensive during the 1970s and
represented perhaps the greatest costs of an empire. In 1970,
subsidies to Eastern Europe cost the Soviets approximately $1
billion a year; by 1981 they had climbed to nearly $19
billion annually, possibly even as high as $22 billion. This
aid was critical to the hard-currency starved Eastern
Europeans.
   These subsidies escalated out of control because of the
pricing formula used within the Soviet bloc throughout the
1970s and 1980s, which was pegged to a moving average of
previous years world market prices. This formula was designed
to shield its Eastern European allies from the often chaotic
effects of short-term Western business cycles. During the
1970s, world commodity market prices rose more rapidly than
those of finished goods. The pricing formula translated these
trade gains into massive subsidies to the Eastern Bloc.
   Near the end of the 1970s, the world economic environment
changed dramatically, in substantial part because a new
Federal Reserve regime in 1979 embarked on a policy of tight
money in order to battle domestic inflation. World commodity
prices soon took a nosedive, but finished goods prices did
not. The Soviet Union had less with which to subsidize its
domestic economy and its allies. The Soviet bloc's pricing
formula slipped into reverse.
   The mechanism that produced windfall subsidies for the
Eastern bloc in the inflationary 1970s led to their
precipitous decline in the disinflationary 1980s. For
example, by 1984 subsidies to allies had dropped to just over
$10 billion annually and, by 1989, according to some
estimates, they had fallen to $6 billion. This was especially
burdensome because new Western lending to them all but dried
up in the 1980s.
   The current economic situation of the republics makes it
difficult to judge in the short term what impact U.S.
policies will have. This situation is, of course, affected by
our agreement in recent years to coordinate international
economic policies with the Group of Seven industrial nations.
It is also critically affected by the differences in what
each republic produces and trades, as well as yet unresolved
intra-republic trade relations (for example, possible
below-market pricing of Russian oil exports to gain
concessions from the other republics).
   On the surface, one might presume that a quick fix to the
U.S. economy through larger deficits and loose monetary
policies would be most valuable to the republics, most of
which remain commodity exporters. This would certainly
increase demand and raise prices in the short term, and might
strengthen Russia's position visa-vis the other republics.
   However, while higher prices would help, the republics may
not benefit as much from greater demand because bottlenecks
and instability in their economies may limit their output.
Much of the benefit may therefore go to other exporters.
   If short-term solutions do not contribute much to the
well-being of the republics, long-term problems in the U.S.
economy may create weak future demand for their commodities
and discourage foreign investment. So the U.S. economy could
help the new republics most if our recovery plans focus on
long-term growth rather than a quick fix.
   As vulnerable as the Soviet economy was when it was
controlled, the newly formed republics are even more
vulnerable now. While giving humanitarian, technological and
other forms of aid, the U.S. should not ignore the
significance to the new republics of its own economic
policies.
   ---
   Mr. Mundell is the president of the WEFA Group, an
international economic consulting firm. Jack Friedman, an
advisor on international business, contributed to this
article.