Minnesota Mining
   Reports Profit Fell
   12% in 4th Quarter
   ----
   By Christina Duff
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Mr. DeSimone said that with "modest, gradual economic
improvement," Minnesota Mining should "resume earnings
growth," primarily in the second half of 1992.
   In the latest quarter, the company earned $259 million, or
$1.18 a share, down from last year's disappointing earnings
of $295 million, or $1.34 a share. Sales slipped to $3.22
billion from $3.28 billion.
   The earnings decline, which followed a similar 12% drop in
third-quarter results, wasn't a surprise, as the company had
forecast a continuing sluggish environment.
   Minnesota Mining's results are keenly watched, in part
because they offer one indicator of how the economy is
faring. The company makes a wide variety of products,
including adhesives and abrasives, that manufacturers use to
make other goods.
   In late trading on the New York Stock Exchange yesterday,
Minnesota Mining shares fell $1.125 to $96.
   The latest quarter's results were pinched by a 2% decline
in domestic unit sales. The company's life-sciences sector,
led by "continued strong demand" for health-care products,
posted the only sales gain, while sales were flat in its
industrial and consumer sector and down in its information,
imaging and electronics area, a spokesman said. Minnesota
Mining cited the "weak economic environment" that "continued
to hold back demand" for its products.
   In Minnesota Mining's huge international business, unit
sales grew by 6%. But that growth was damped by losses on
currency translations due to the dollar's strengthening,
which the company said pared net by about seven cents a
share. Currency effects will "continue to have a negative
effect on earnings through at least the first quarter,"
Minnesota Mining said.
   For the year, Minnesota Mining posted its first full-year
earnings decline since 1985. The company's earnings fell 11%
to $1.15 billion, or $5.26 a share, from $1.31 billion, or
$5.91 a share, a year earlier. Sales rose 2.4% to $13.34
billion from $13.02 billion.