Soviet Breakup Stymies Foreign Firms
   ----
   By Thomas F. O'Boyle
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
While the military interference is gone, however, money
has become a big problem. Before, there was one central
foreign-trade bank, Vnesheconombank, that provided all Soviet
government guarantees for project financing. Now that bank is
nearly bankrupt -- and no replacement has emerged so far.
Unless someone provides loan guarantees, the project will be
dead, frets Mr. Tymann, an executive at Westinghouse Electric
Corp. and the point man for a six-company international
group.
   At the end of 1987, there were only 23 joint ventures
between the Soviet Union and foreign interests. By last July,
that figure had grown to more than 2,000. And now, as Mr.
Tymann and others like him are discovering, the demise of
ossified bureaucracies is enabling Western businesses to cut
deals directly with local officials and managers. But
American and European executives also spend much of their
time figuring out just who is in charge, what laws they'll be
operating under and how to circumvent a currency in ruins.
   "There's total chaos. Nobody knows who's responsible for
what," says Czechoslovak businessman Igor Junas, who runs
Kerametal Foreign Trade Co., a concern that does extensive
metal trading. Kerametal used to have one procurement
contract with one central authority. Now, it negotiates
directly with representatives of three mines in Georgia,
Russia and Ukraine, none of whom has ever before acted as an
independent businessman.
   The dissolution of the central government has created
unprecedented unknowns. Perhaps the biggest is who owns what.
One European bank says its purchase of St. Petersburg real
estate has been delayed for months -- because it can't get
clear title to the property.
   While new republic laws affecting privatization, joint
stock companies and taxation seem compatible with those of
the old union, many macroeconomic issues have been left to
chance. Western concerns, for instance, face the prospect of
dealing with multiple currencies as the ruble dissolves --
and with multiple inflation rates. Moreover, the Commonwealth
of Independent States hasn't adopted a central registration
system for medicines, as Western drug makers had hoped it
would.
   Newmont Mining Corp. of Denver finds itself stymied in
talks with officials in Uzbekistan who have never negotiated
a business contract. "They have no one to tell them this is
the way the law works," says James F. Hills, vice president
of corporate affairs at Newmont, which wants to mine and
refine the region's rich gold deposits and hopes to form a
joint venture.
   Some companies don't even know whether the agencies they
once reported to still exist. Polaroid Corp.'s two-year-old
joint venture has continued producing camera parts despite
the political changes. But its chief partner, the Soviet
Ministry of Atomic Energy and Industry, no longer exists.
"We're trying to find out what that means, if anything, for
our operations," says a Polaroid spokesman.
   Meanwhile, Western companies that had been negotiating
with the old central government are sometimes viewed
suspiciously by the independent republics. Consider Chevron
Corp., which a year ago was close to winning a contract to
develop the giant Tengiz oil field in Kazakhstan near the
Caspian Sea. Since then, Kazakh officials nationalized the
field. Although talks continue, "the ride's been a little
bumpy," says Daniel Johnson, Chevron's manager of public and
governmental affairs.
   When the talks began, it was assumed the project's oil
exports would generate hard currency. That currency in turn
would have allowed the central government to buy goods from a
consortium of companies allied with Chevron, including
Johnson  Johnson, Eastman Kodak Co. and RJR Nabisco Holdings
Inc. But with the Soviet government dead -- and the fate of
the ruble in question -- the consortium disbanded. "Until
there are some encouraging signs over there, you're not going
to see substantial investment," says James H. Giffen, a
founder of the consortium.
   One impediment for the consortium was its sheer
complexity. Simpler ventures, involving less money and fewer
parties, are less likely to get derailed.
   "The more ambitious plans are on hold," says Robert Starr,
head of the Central and Eastern European practice of Cole,
Corette  Abrutyn, a Washington law firm. "People realize
we're at a stage where things could get a lot worse before
they get better, so most people are scaling down their
ambitions."
   That's the strategy at Digital Equipment Corp., which
opened a Moscow office in December, only days before the
Soviet flag flew for the last time above the Kremlin. The
company plans additional offices in St. Petersburg and Kiev.
But Digital's investment is modest. "Our employees number in
the tens, not hundreds," says a spokesman. "We're
establishing modest sales offices, not manufacturing plants."
   Many companies anticipated the Soviet Union's dissolution
and had sought contacts in the four most populous republics,
Russia, Ukraine, Belarus and Kazakhstan. One such company is
Anglo-Suisse L.P., a small oil outfit in Houston. The
company's joint venture started drilling last summer in
Siberia, and although it isn't yet profitable, exports have
started to Italy. Anglo-Suisse says it signed agreements
early on with city and regional officials in Siberia, as well
as in Moscow.
   So far, Anglo-Suisse says there hasn't been any
interference in its operations. Company officials say they
are planning dozens of new wells, requiring the import of
expensive Western equipment, in the next three years.
   A far graver question than who is in charge is how the new
governments will pay for goods and services. The removal of
state price controls has sent prices skyrocketing for many
goods and has made the ruble almost worthless.
   Moreover, within republics, few banks have emerged that
can guarantee loans the way the central trade bank used to.
That gap is keeping Japanese investors on the sidelines. "A
guarantee from the central bank of each republic is necessary
{for Japanese companies to make investments}, but these
institutions aren't functioning yet," says an official at a
major Japanese trading company.
   The collapse of the ruble may cause Gillette Co. to
renegotiate terms of a joint venture to make shaving products
in St. Petersburg. Initially, Gillette had agreed to receive
hard currency at a set exchange rate that is increasingly
irrelevant in a hyper-inflationary environment.
   Some republics are running out of hard currency to pay for
such critical goods as food and food-processing equipment.
U.S. grain exporters, which shipped about 60 million bushels
of wheat to the republics in December, expect to do brisk
business this spring. That's largely because one old central
agency -- Exportkhleb, the Soviet grain importing agency --
has been converted into a grain-buying company that's jointly
owned by the republics.
   Still, cash shortages will affect the farm sector. Western
banks agreed to loan the Gorbachev government some $3 billion
last year to buy U.S. food after the White House guaranteed
repayment. Last week, as scheduled, the republics are said to
have made their first loan payment of less than $2 million.
But they face another $333 million in payments through spring
-- and if they default, the White House could balk at more
loan guarantees.
   The cash crunch is causing companies to create barter
arrangements. Tambrands Inc., a personal-care products
concern in White Plains, N.Y., used ruble profits from a
factory in Ukraine, where it makes Tampax tampons, to buy a
cotton bleachery in St. Petersburg from the workers'
collective that privatized it. "We'd never have been able to
do that deal unless Russia had become independent," says Paul
E. Konney, senior vice president of Tambrands.
   American Telephone  Telegraph Co., meanwhile, will pay
for its 39% stake in Ukraine's telephone authority by
providing switching equipment. Under the transaction,
announced last week, ATT will get its hard-currency profits
partly from long-distance calls from other countries to
Ukraine. The venture marks the first time the company has
moved to construct, own and operate a long-distance phone
network outside the U.S.
   Not all of the change has been for the worse. Ply Gem
Industries Inc., for example, a New York maker of
home-improvement products, has a joint venture called Russian
Wood Express, which can now keep as much as 50% of its export
revenue, up from about just 15% under the Soviet regime.
   And Kodak finds it can hire talented Russian managers and
workers at a modest cost. Among the recent applicants: a
Ph.D. physicist employed by a state research institute who
earns just $12 a month at current exchange rates. Says Edward
Hoppe, Kodak's vice president for Eastern Europe: "There are
incredibly talented people who are anxious for jobs."