Argentine Unions'
   Political Influence
   Is in Sharp Decline
Metalworkers Union members reacted in ways that used to
bring relief. They held rallies, sit-ins and hunger strikes;
lobbied sympathetic congressmen; appealed to the public; met
with Cabinet ministers, and asked the Roman Catholic Church
to mediate.
   None of it helped. President Carlos Menem's government
wouldn't rescind the layoffs or reopen the second furnace. It
wants to sell the complex in San Nicolas, a river port 125
miles north of Buenos Aires, by the end of this year.
   Unions are in disarray because of Mr. Menem's successes,
his public support and his refusal to meet their demands.
   "The union movement is even weaker today" than under the
military governments of 1976-83, "which banned or co-opted
it," said Senen Gonzalez, a labor analyst. "Unions used to
symbolize resistance. Now, they are so afraid of losing
jobs."
   Since the 1940s, only the military has outranked labor as
a political force in this country of 33 million people.
Unions put governments in power and threw them out. They were
the core of support for state control of the economy.
   Labor backed Mr. Menem for president, but real wages have
trailed inflation since his election in 1989. He abolished
tens of thousands of public jobs and rewrote labor laws to
favor business. He has tried to stabilize the economy by
halting inflation and revitalize it by reducing the state's
role.
   "Menem has destroyed the power of unions, and that is most
important" to the success of his economic plan, said Juan
Alemann, an economist and former Treasury secretary.
   The General Labor Confederation conducted 13 general
strikes against Mr. Menem's predecessor, Raul Alfonsin. Its
representatives in Congress blocked Mr. Alfonsin's efforts to
sell the state airline and telephone company, reduce the
public payroll and cut government subsidies.
   Mr. Menem bypassed Congress, using a presidential decree
to end subsidies that cost hundreds of millions of dollars a
year. He dropped more than 100,000 public jobs, ignoring
union protests.
   His Peronist party government sold the phone company in
November 1990 and the national airline, Aerolineas
Argentinas, two weeks later.
   Controls on wages, prices, interest rates and foreign
exchange were lifted, again by presidential decrees. Mr.
Menem lowered tariffs and reduced the state role in the
economy. The state oil company YPF, Argentina's biggest
industrial concern, will be sold next year.
   It appears to be working. The economy grew in 1991 for the
first time since 1987 and 6% growth is projected for this
year. Unemployment is down to 6.5% of the work force, the
budget is nearly in balance and the currency is stable.