Marketing & Media:
   Maxwell Communication Sells a Weekly,
   The European, to 2 British Businessmen
   ----
   By Craig Forman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
"The European faces a long, hard haul to profitability,"
said Derek Terrington, an analyst at stockbrokers Kleinwort
Benson in London. The paper has never been consistently
profitable and hasn't secured a stable circulation or
advertising base since its much-delayed May 1990 launch.
   The late Robert Maxwell's publicity machine once talked of
the European as "one of the great publishing events of the
century." But executives quickly slashed circulation and
revenue projections for the weekly, which currently has
circulation estimated at about 200,000. Though losses
reportedly have narrowed to less than #200,000 ($370,000)
weekly, the European "didn't suddenly take over the
newsstands of Western Europe," said Mr. Terrington. "It has a
long road ahead of it to reach commercial viability."
   Alan Chamberlain, a director of the Barclay brothers' U.K.
interests and new managing director of the European, said the
new owners believe the European has a bright future, despite
its losses. "We aren't on a vanity trip," he said. "We think
if we do our homework properly" the European can grow
substantially. He acknowledged the closely held Barclay group
doesn't have experience in the media industry, but said "the
time is right for such a newspaper."
   According to London's Sunday Times newspaper, the
57-year-old Barclay brothers control a #500 million fortune,
with interests in hotels, shipping and real estate. In its
annual list of Britain's wealthiest people, the Sunday Times
said the brothers have a penchant for secrecy that may
explain their low profile in London media circles.
   The new owners will have to invest significantly to turn
the European around after its buffeting in recent months. The
weekly "is a formula that sounds modern and in tune with
events. But it has never been tested and never made a
profit," said Kleinwort's Mr. Terrington. Mr. Chamberlain
declined to say how much the Barclay brothers paid for the
paper, or are willing to invest.
   A London spokesman for court-appointed administrators
Arthur Andersen & Co. said the Barclay brothers' bid was "the
first acceptable offer" for the European. He declined to
provide details of the sale process, but said that rival
parties had also expressed interest in the paper.
   The sale of the European is the first disposal of Maxwell
assets since court-appointed British and U.S. administrators
last week agreed on a plan to reorganize the Maxwell empire
into a leaner publishing group centered on book-publisher
Macmillan Inc., while selling some peripheral operations.
   The new owners didn't outline their plans for the paper.
But administrators said that Charles Garside, former deputy
editor who has recently been acting editor, will remain at
the paper as editor and general manager. The European has
continued to publish in recent weeks with about half its
staff, who were temporarily rehired after the 150-person
staff was laid off in December.