Warrants Tied
   To Europe Index
   Will Be Offered
   ----
   By Craig Smith
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
The warrants also provide institutional investors a handy
way to hedge their European equity exposure. The warrants are
being underwritten by a syndicate led by Societe Generale's
U.S. unit, Societe Generale Securities Corp. The unit
declined to comment on the offering.
   The warrants will be based on the FT-SE Eurotrack 200
Index, created by the London Stock Exchange. The index
combines the 100 stocks in the exchange's benchmark FT-SE 100
Index with 100 of the biggest stocks in continental Europe.
   Societe Generale's issue will consist of 5 million call
warrants, designed to rise in price as the Eurotrack 200
Index rallies. The warrants reflect Societe Generale's
bullish outlook on European markets on the eve of the
European Common Market's unification.
   The warrants, which will expire in three years, will be
priced at $4 to $4.25 each. Upon exercise of the warrants
anytime before then, a holder will receive an amount based on
the increase in the index over its value when the warrants
are issued-up to a maximum of $50 per warrant. Unexercised
warrants will expire worthless if the index is lower in three
years.
   Societe Generale's warrants, which will be denominated in
U.S. dollars, will have no currency exchange risk because
their value will be calculated at a fixed exchange rate with
the European Currency Unit, or ECU.
   Observers note that the protection from currency risk will
allow U.S. investors to benefit fully from any decline in
Europe's relatively high interest rates. Falling rates could
spur European stock markets higher.
   The Eurotrack 200 Index, introduced in February 1991,
pulled back to a recent low of about 1072 in late December
before rallying to just shy of 1200 in early March.
Yesterday, the index closed down 2.30 at 1163.50.
   The warrants will be listed on the American Stock
Exchange.
   Several U.S. marketplaces have been eager to list
securities based on pan-European stock indexes. The American
Stock Exchange, the New York Stock Exchange and the Chicago
Board Options Exchange have all filed with the Securities and
Exchange Commission for approval to list warrants and options
on various indexes, including the Eurotrack 200.
   Last week, the SEC gave the three exchanges approval to
list warrants on the FT-SE Eurotrack 200 Index. The listing
of those warrants on the Big Board and CBOE -- possibly by
issuers other than Societe Generale -- may come in the
future. The CBOE was given rights to list options on the
Eurotrack 200 Index.
   The Amex also received approval to list options and
warrants on the Eurotop 100 Index, a pan-European index
created by Amsterdam's European Options Exchange.
   Requests by the exchanges are pending to list warrants and
options on the FT-SE Eurotrack 100 Index and on the FT
Actuaries Europe Index, published jointly by a consortium
including Financial Times Ltd. and Goldman, Sachs  Co.