Your Money Matters:
   Why It's Risky Not to Invest More in Stocks
   ----
   By Jonathan Clements
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Many financial experts contend that investors should be
taking far more risk with their money, by owning more stocks.
But they don't base that view on the stock market's near-term
outlook.
   "We think it's quite a risky time right now," says Robert
Bingham, a partner with Bingham, Osborn  Scarborough, a San
Francisco investment adviser. "We're close to an all-time
high in the U.S. stock market. But you've got to have some
participation in the equity markets."
   The case for investing in stocks is based not on the
market's short-term prospects, but on the superior returns
that investors are likely to earn if they hold stocks for
five years or longer. "Individuals take too little risk,"
argues H. Bradlee Perry, chairman of David L. Babson  Co.
"In the short run, stocks are risky. But in the long run
they're not. In the long run, the trend is upwards."
   Why are Americans so timid with their investment
portfolios? Blame it on a skewed idea of what risk really is.
If you think risk is the chance that your portfolio might
temporarily lose 15% or 20% of its value, then stocks are
undoubtedly risky.
   Since 1926, there have been 20 calendar years when the
Standard  Poor's 500 stock index has posted a loss,
according to Chicago's Ibbotson Associates. The worst year of
all, 1931, saw the SP 500 plunge 43.3%.
   But before you call your broker and dump all your
stockholdings, consider some other Ibbotson data. Since 1926,
the first year for which Ibbotson has figures, long-term
government bonds have had a total return -- bond-price
changes plus interest payments -- of 4.8% a year, and
Treasury bills have gained 3.7% annually.
   Those gains are barely ahead of inflation, which rose 3.1%
a year during the same period. Figure in taxes, and investing
your money with the government starts to look like legalized
extortion. And what about stocks? They handily outpaced
inflation and the tax man -- with a pretax total return,
which includes reinvested dividends, of 10.4% a year since
1926.
   Past returns don't guarantee future results, of course,
but the historical data are compelling. "If you have a
15-year holding period, you can argue that a bond portfolio
is much more risky {than stocks} because of inflation," says
Mr. Bingham. "You can't ride along with 70% or 80% in bonds.
Bonds are there just to provide a cushion in a portfolio."
   How much should investors have in stocks? A lot depends on
how much risk an investor can tolerate, but many investment
advisers say the more people put into stocks, the better.
Russell Hill, a senior vice president with Chicago's
Stratford Advisory Group, even suggests that folks who are 10
or more years from retirement should consider putting their
entire investment portfolio into stocks.
   And Mr. Hill says retirees shouldn't let the stock portion
of their portfolio drop below 50%. "People should be much
more heavily invested in stocks than they are," he argues.
   Investing heavily in the stock market can be
nerve-wracking for even the most seasoned investor. And after
the sharp runup of the past 16 months, a market setback
wouldn't be surprising. But experts say that investors have
two weapons they can use to make the stock market's gyrations
more bearable. One is diversification, and the other is time.
   Diversification is a sort of modern alchemy. If you take
highly risky securities and mix them together, you often end
up with a portfolio that still generates decent returns, but
the portfolio's value doesn't bounce around nearly as much as
the price of the portfolio's parts.
   How does it work? Stocks don't all move up and down in
tandem. One stock's price decline will often be offset by
another's rise, leaving the overall portfolio value pretty
much undisturbed. For small investors, the best way to
achieve diversification is to buy stock mutual funds. A stock
fund typically owns 30 to 300 stocks; many funds will accept
investments as low as $1,000.
   But owning just one fund isn't enough. Every stock fund
has a distinctive investment style, and these styles can go
in and out of favor. For the past three years, for instance,
funds that buy foreign stocks have been lousy performers,
while most U.S. stock funds have posted decent gains.
   Because it is impossible to say for sure which of these
two investment styles will sparkle or for how long, investors
should own both international funds and U.S. stock funds,
argues Mr. Bingham, the San Francisco investment adviser.
Similarly, Mr. Bingham says it is wise to own both "growth"
funds, which invest in companies with rapid earnings growth,
and "value" funds, which buy stocks that are cheap relative
to assets or current earnings. Furthermore, he says,
investors should funnel part of their money into funds
specializing in large companies with stock market values
above $1 billion, and part into smaller companies.
   A well-diversified stock fund portfolio should probably
include funds that invest in all of these different areas.
Which particular funds should you use?
   Mr. Bingham suggests buying six funds for the stock
portion of your portfolio. He advises splitting 40% of your
portfolio between two small-stock funds, Vanguard Explorer
Fund and Pennsylvania Mutual Fund. With another 40% of the
portfolio, he would buy equal amounts of two largecompany
stock funds, Neuberger  Berman Guardian Fund and Vanguard
Index Trust-500 Portfolio, an index fund that seeks to
replicate the performance of the SP 500. For the final 20%,
Mr. Bingham suggests dividing your money between two
international stock funds, T. Rowe Price International Stock
Fund and Scudder International Fund.
   "If you bought this kind of mix, and held it, you couldn't
go very far wrong," argues Mr. Bingham. He also advises
keeping at least a small portion of a portfolio in bonds, to
provide a cushion in market downdrafts.
   Putting together a well-diversified portfolio of stock
mutual funds will certainly help to make owning stocks more
bearable because at any one time there will usually be at
least one part of your portfolio that is doing well. But for
people who are heavily invested in stocks, there is really
only one cure for the stock market's volatility, and that is
time.
   There may have been 20 down years for the stock market
since 1926, but the statistics are a lot more appealing if
you look at longer time periods. The Ibbotson data, for
instance, can be sliced up into 62 rolling five-year periods,
beginning with the five years through December 1930,
proceeding next to the five years through 1931, and so on,
finishing up with the five years through December 1991. Out
of these 62 five-year periods, there have been only seven
occasions when stocks have posted a loss.
   But even these statistics may overstate the risk involved
in stock market investing. For starters, only two of those
seven losing streaks occurred in the post-World War II
period. In addition, such statistics are based on the
assumption that you unwisely throw all you money into the
stock market in one great wad.
   Imagine that you instead take a more prudent course and
use a stock-market entry technique known as dollar-cost
averaging. This involves putting equal amounts into the stock
market at regular intervals, such as every month or every
three months, so that you buy fewer shares when the market is
up but more shares when the market is down.
   If you put equal amounts into the stock market at the
start of every year beginning in 1946, the only five-year
stretch when you would have lost money would have been in the
five years through December 1974, according to San Francisco
investment adviser Litman/Gregory  Co. And even for these
investors, salvation wasn't too far off. Because the stock
market rebounded 37.2% in 1975, those who toughed it out for
12 more months would have recouped all of their losses, and
then some.
   For people with a large chunk of money to invest in
stocks, Litman/Gregory's Kenneth Gregory suggests moving the
money into the market over the next 12 to 18 months, in equal
monthly installments. "If the market dropped 10%, I'd
probably double up on the amount I was investing each month,"
says Mr. Gregory.
   Ben Clinton, a 26-year-old ChemLawn Corp. employee from
Frederick, Md., says he is about to venture into the stock
market for the first time by buying a stock mutual fund.
   "You don't get anywhere by putting your money in a bank
account because you don't make any money that way," says Mr.
Clinton. "I know the returns on mutual funds are a lot
higher. Of course, I know mutual funds are a lot more risky
also. I just want to get something going so I have some money
down the line."