Technology  Medicine:
   Combination of Acne Drug, Interferon
   Shows Promise in Fighting Some Cancers
   ----
   By Jerry E. Bishop
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Hoffmann-La Roche, the U.S. unit of Roche Holding Ltd. of
Basle, Switzerland, supported the experiments, as did the
American Cancer Society.
   Among 28 patients with advanced skin cancers that had
resisted all other treatments, 19 patients experienced a
shrinkage of at least 50% in the size of their tumors,
including seven who had a complete disappearance of their
cancers.
   Among 26 women with advanced cervical cancers, 13 had a
regression in tumor size of at least 50%, including one woman
whose cancer disappeared completely.
   It's not yet known how long the benefits of the new
chemotherapy will last. Some of the patients have relapsed
after brief regressions of the cancers while in others the
effects have lasted a year or longer, said Irwin H. Krakoff,
one of the researchers at the University of Texas M.D.
Anderson Cancer Center in Houston who carried out the
experiments.
   "We wouldn't even think of saying this is curative," Dr.
Krakoff said. He called the results "encouraging" because it
is the first time this combination of drugs has shown an
anti-cancer effect when given systemically, that is by pill
for the Accutane and by injection for the interferon.
   Moreover, the drug combination had an effect in cancers of
a type and stage that heretofore had been beyond effective
treatment. All the patients had a type of cancer known as
squamous cell carcinoma. Squamous cells, which resemble
paving stones when viewed under the microscope, comprise the
exposed or outermost lining of various tissues and organs, in
this instance, the skin and the cervix of the uterus.
   Squamous cell carcinoma of the skin is the second most
common human cancer, the first being cancer of the skin's
next lower layer of cells, the basal cells. About 90% of
patients with squamous cell skin cancer are cured by surgery
and radiation. "The remaining nearly 10% of patients who are
not cured, however, represent tens of thousands of cases
requiring a new therapeutic approach," the researchers
reported in the current issue of the Journal of the National
Cancer Institute. They said that about 3,000 persons die
annually in the U.S. from squamous cell skin cancer.
   The M.D. Anderson team reported it had treated 28 patients
with the Accutane-Roferon combination, all of whom suffered
squamous cell skin cancer that had withstood treatment by
surgery and radiation. The cancers had begun to spread in all
the patients and in half the patients skin cancer cells had
metastasized or migrated to other organs.
   Among the 14 patients whose cancers were still confined to
the skin, six had a complete remission of their tumors and
seven had a 50% or greater regression, according to the
researchers, led by cancer specialist Scott M. Lippman. Among
the remaining 14 in whom the cancer had metastasized, one had
a complete remission and five had partial responses.
   A second research team from M.D. Anderson reported it had
gone to Guadalajara, Mexico, to work with Mexican cancer
researchers in treating women with advanced squamous cell
cancers of the cervix. Among the 26 Mexican women, who've
been under treatment for two to four months, one patient has
had a complete remission and 12 have had partial regressions,
the researchers reported. One of these patients has already
had a relapse.
   Among the 13 women classed as "nonresponders," the cancers
in nine seemed to have stopped growing, the researchers
reported. But in the other four women, the cancer has
progressed.
   In both studies, the two drugs are administered every day
for at least two months. The major side effect was fatigue, a
well-known adverse effect of interferon, which posed a
problem largely for the more elderly skin cancer patients.