American to Cut
   Fares to Europe
   By Up to 33%
   ---
   Other Airlines Are Expected
   To Match Reductions;
   Domestic Prices to Rise
   ----
   By Asra Q. Nomani
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The overseas fare reductions come as American, along with
most other U.S. airlines, prepares to raise domestic
vacation-type fares by 2% tomorrow.
   Vacation-type fares are commonly bought by leisure
travelers who can meet the advance purchase restrictions and
other travel rules usually applied to the tickets. In this
case, the U.S.-Europe fares require 14-day advance purchase
and must be reserved by March 31.
   The U.S.-Europe fare cuts aren't unusual for this time of
the year, as carriers try to shake business out of an
otherwise slow booking period. A spokesman for American said
that while advance bookings to Europe are "not bad, they
could be better."
   By being the first to announce a big U.S.-Europe fare cut,
American is clearly trying to score public relations and
marketing points with recession-weary consumers. At the most,
airlines figure they can tap a couple days of advertising
hype by jumping ahead of the pack. Rivals ultimately match
most cuts.
   American's cuts affect flights from all U.S. cities it
serves to London; Paris; Madrid; Frankfurt, Munich and
Dusseldorf, Germany; Manchester, England; Brussels; Zurich,
Switzerland; Milan, Italy; Stockholm; Glasgow, Scotland; and
Budapest.
   The fare cuts are substantial, but the sale prices still
may strike some fliers as high. Between New York and Paris,
American is reducing its lowest round-trip fare for off-peak
travel April through May and in September by 24% to $548 from
$724. It is cutting its cheapest fare for summer peak travel
between June and September by 23% to $648 from $844. The
current cheapest fares require 30 days advance purchase.
   Chicago-London fares, too, might seem expensive.
American's least expensive offpeak season fare is falling 19%
to $648 from $798. American is cutting its cheapest summer
ticket in that market by 17% to $748 from $898. Between
Chicago and Milan, American's cheapest summer fare is falling
33% to $748 from $1,111.
   Because of U.S.-U.K. bilateral rules, the London and
Manchester cuts are only from American's six overseas gateway
cities: New York, Boston, Miami, Chicago, Dallas-Fort Worth
and Los Angeles.
   American launched a similar marketing gimmick about this
time last year to spark travel after the end of the Persian
Gulf War. Saying that "the United States is struggling to
emerge from a recession," Michael W. Gunn, American's senior
vice president of marketing, said in a statement that he was
resurrecting the campaign because it worked to spur bookings
last year.
   As for its plan to raise domestic vacation-type fares, the
airline says it is getting a different reading on the
domestic market, where an airline spokesman insists fliers
can "bear" a fare increase.
   American and other lines believe that, based on market
analysis, domestic vacation-fliers can afford to pay a little
bit more even during the current sluggish economic period.
But most carriers balked at a recent effort to raise domestic
business fares by 2%.
   TWA is one major airline holding out on the domestic
vacation-type fare increase. Yesterday it said that "this
fare increase can cost the American flying public up to $150
million a year, which they can ill afford in these
recessionary times."
   An American spokesman justified the airline's apparently
conflicting fare actions, saying the domestic and
international markets are "apples and oranges."
   Based on February traffic statistics, U.S. airlines are
clearly seeing an upswing in their systemwide business, even
though much of the boosts are linked to increased capacity.
   American's February traffic jumped 28% to 6.5 billion
revenue-passenger miles from 5.1 billion revenue-passenger
miles a year earlier. United's February traffic rose 21% to
5.96 billion revenue-passenger miles from 4.9 billion
revenue-passenger miles a year earlier.
   February traffic at Delta and Continental Airlines, a unit
of Continental Airlines Holdings Inc., increased 17% from the
year-ago period. A revenue-passenger mile is one
revenue-paying passenger flown one mile.
   At United, at least, trans-Atlantic travel appears to be
faring better than domestic. February load factor, or the
percentage of seats filled, in United's trans-Atlantic
division rose 2.9 points to 59.3% from 56.4% a year earlier.
Domestic load factor for the month fell 0.9 point to 56.2%
from 57.1% a year ago.