Media:
   Paramount Explores a New Frontier in TV Syndication
   ----
   By Kevin Goldman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Paramount has already sold the two series, which it
announced just last month, to stations in eight of the
nation's 10 biggest markets. In its continuing sales efforts,
Paramount is aggressively targeting network affiliates in
some markets to convince them to pre-empt their network
programming in favor of "The Untouchables" and "Deep Space
Nine." At the risk of straining relations with the networks,
Paramount may be able to convince individual affiliates they
can make more money with the syndicated fare than with the
lowest-ranked network show in a given time period.
   Paramount's strategy with the two high-profile series
reflects in large part the changing economics of the
television business. The networks, hampered by shrinking
audiences and losses on big gambles with sports rights, are
increasingly balking at paying the big fees studios want to
produce one-hour action shows. Though the fees have always
been lower than a studio's cost of producing a show, the
studios have retained ownership of their programs and
recouped losses by selling the reruns to individual stations.
   Network series, however, are shorter-lived than ever these
days, making it harder for studios to produce the 80 episodes
or so needed to go to the syndication market.
   Paramount has taken the lead in Hollywood by aiming new
shows directly at the syndication market. That way, it can
retain creative control over the programs and, more
importantly, strike deals with stations that let the studio
commit to making as many episodes as it sees fit. "We're the
masters of our own destiny," says Steve Goldman, president of
Paramount Domestic Television.
   Paramount -- and its station customers -- are hoping to
duplicate the success of "Star Trek: The Next Generation," a
show at least two networks rejected. Since Paramount began
selling it directly to stations in 1987, it has become the
No. 2 syndicated show, according to A.C. Nielsen Co., watched
by 12% of U.S. homes with TV sets. Only four network
affiliates pre-empt prime-time programming to show the
series, but affiliates in 20% of the top 100 markets
broadcast "The Next Generation" at other times.
   Though there is a glut of half-hour network reruns coming
on the market, stations are eager for new one-hour shows that
look like expensive network programs. And for network
affiliates, Paramount is offering the prospect of greater
profits. In a network one-hour show, affiliate stations
typically get to sell 90 seconds of commercial time; in both
of Paramount's new shows, the studio will retain seven
minutes of commercial time and give five minutes to the
station.
   The networks say they're not worried about the possibility
of pre-emptions by their affiliates. "The alternative supply
sources are nothing new, though perhaps it's more boldfaced
now," says a spokeswoman for General Electric Co.'s NBC unit.
"We're seeing exceptional support from our affiliates and
believe we will continue to see more."
   Paramount says it offered two of the networks first crack
at "The Untouchables," based on both the old series about
U.S. Treasury agents in the 1930s and the successful recent
movie of the same title. Paramount asked for a guarantee that
repeats of the show would be bought by stations owned by the
networks, ensuring a strong start in selling the show in
syndication.
   Paramount says the networks, which it declines to
identify, balked; network officials decline to comment. But
Paramount made a commitment to produce 17 episodes in
pitching it directly to stations. "If we didn't go the
syndication route, you probably wouldn't see these shows,"
says Kerry McCluggage, president of Paramount Television
Group. "We're spending a lot of time and money to create
product that hasn't been seen on the network."
   "Star Trek: Deep Space Nine," meanwhile, wasn't offered to
networks at all. Instead, Paramount first approached those
stations carrying "Star Trek: The Next Generation." The new
series, set in the same time -- the 24th century -- as "Next
Generation" follows the adventures of the inhabitants of a
space station. "Next Generation" is scheduled to go off the
air, no matter how high the ratings, in two years, after
about 175 episodes. Paramount expects loyal followers of
"Next Generation" to keep "Deep Space Nine" going long after
that.
   Paramount says it isn't entirely trying to bypass the
networks -- and the company remains a major supplier of new
series to all three networks. In the future, Mr. McCluggage
says, "how we financed these one-hour shows could be a role
model for the network-studio relationship." For example, he
said, networks could be more flexible in agreeing that the
stations they own will commit to purchasing the reruns. Each
of the three major networks owns stations covering up to 25%
of the country.
   But Paramount has found creative advantages from eschewing
the network system with some shows. It has firm control, for
instance, on casting its shows, and on every aspect of
production and special effects. Mr. McCluggage says the
networks probably would have balked at the choice of actor
Patrick Stewart, who has the lead role on "Next Generation."
"It would have been impossible to have a network approve a
bald British actor as the lead," Mr. McCluggage says.