Corporate Focus:
   Federal Express Pins Hopes on New Strategy in Europe
   ---
   But Retrenchments May Make Firm
   More Vulnerable to Competition
   ----
   By Daniel Pearl
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The air-express giant, which tried and failed to build a
package-delivery franchise in Europe from the ground up, now
faces big hurdles in its attempt to cut losses by relying on
local partners to deliver packages within Europe.
   The changes may make Federal Express more vulnerable to
its two main international competitors -- United Parcel
Service of America Inc. and DHL International -- which are
likely to claim that their service to Europe is better
because they have their own domestic operations there. The
restructuring could aggravate what is already a big problem
for Federal Express: too little volume on the return trip
from Europe to the U.S. And it could make it more difficult
for Federal Express to beat its rivals' prices in a fiercely
competitive and recessionary world market.
   The stakes are higher than ever now. Federal Express's
fiscal third-quarter loss of $193.4 million, including a $254
million international restructuring charge, will put pressure
on the Memphis, Tenn., company's balance sheet and could harm
its credit rating, analysts say.
   "At this point, they don't have an escape valve. They've
written off everything they can afford to write off," says
David M. Guthrie, an analyst with Morgan Keegan  Co. in
Memphis. "They've got to take what they have and make it
work."
   The international business has been an albatross for
founder and chairman Frederick W. Smith, whose company has
poured about $2.5 billion into tortured attempts to duplicate
its U.S. success overseas. Mr. Smith kept a low profile in
the restructuring this week, letting Thomas R. Oliver,
executive vice president of worldwide customer operations,
explain the retrenchment to the investment community and
press. A Federal Express spokesman said yesterday that Mr.
Smith was on vacation.
   Federal Express officials say the European restructuring
will cut the risks of its overseas business by moving it
toward variable costs instead of fixed costs. In other words,
instead of relying solely on its own trucks and employees,
Federal will pay Securicor Omega Express Ltd., a British
express-delivery concern, a fee for delivering packages in
that country outside the London area. It will pay TNT Express
Worldwide, a unit of the Sydney, Australia, transportation
concern TNT Ltd., for delivering to places Federal Express
doesn't reach in 10 other European countries.
   The company will stop delivering between cities in Europe
but says it will keep enough people in Europe to handle
intercontinental deliveries and to make sure Federal
Express's partners are meeting delivery standards. The
restructuring charge covers the costs of eliminating fixed
assets and staff, as well as operating losses through May
from the discontinued operations.
   Federal Express says the new system will improve overseas
results from what they would have been otherwise, but it
declines to be more specific. Mr. Guthrie says the
improvement for the company could be about $150 million in
fiscal 1993, "all things being equal."
   But a recession continues to bruise the world-wide express
market, and Federal Express's overseas losses are widening.
Company officials won't say whether international losses will
actually narrow as a result of the restructuring, which takes
effect in May. Company officials wouldn't even say yesterday
whether it's still true that roughly two-thirds of the
company's international losses come from Europe, as Chairman
Smith said in December.
   Mr. Oliver said yesterday the recession is hurting the
air-freight business in Asia, too. He said Federal Express is
"unhappy with the revenues we're getting out of the Asian
market" but "committed to the long-term prospects" there.
   Mr. Oliver also faces challenges with the company's
intercontinental air-express network. The company said
yesterday it is pleased with volume growth for that network,
which provides delivery to Europe, Asia and North America,
and is adding a daily flight from Milan, Italy, via Paris, to
Memphis.
   But the express volume flowing from Europe to the U.S. is
less than half that shipped in the other direction, Mr.
Guthrie said. That imbalance is costly, and it may get worse
after the restructuring, as Federal Express won't have
domestic operations in Europe to attract shippers there to
the intercontinental service. Securicor, which has a one-year
agreement with Federal Express, will pass on international
business to Federal Express. But TNT, which has its own
international business, isn't expected to do so.
   UPS and DHL salespeople are likely to seize on Federal
Express's European restructuring and try to convince
international shippers in the U.S. and Europe that it's
better to use a carrier that handles its own packages, start
to finish.
   "For the long pull, it's absolutely, positively the way to
go," declares Donald Layden, senior vice president of
international operations for Atlanta-based UPS, which is
trying to set up a domestic operation in Britain to complete
its European network.
   Ali Sarrafzadeh, DHL's world-wide sales and marketing
manager in Brussels, said using agents for local deliveries
creates "confusion" for customers. "I don't think anyone has
been successful with that type of arrangement in the past,"
he said. And he says Federal Express will be less able to
compete for business by undercutting its rivals' prices, as
the price of delivering each package in Europe is fixed by
the service agreements.
   Federal Express says service quality won't suffer. The
company still expects to deliver almost half of the
Europe-bound packages itself. It says it won't change its
delivery times or guarantees to accommodate its partners. Mr.
Oliver contends service may actually improve in some
countries. As for price, he says, the company is "very
comfortable" with its package delivery costs in the TNT and
Securicor agreements.
   If Federal Express is successful in scaling back
international losses, it may wage a full-scale war on UPS and
Seattle-based Airborne Freight Corp. in the U.S., where
Federal Express's lead in market share remains strong.
Already, Federal Express has been offering large discounts to
woo customers from Airborne in recent months. And a Federal
Express spokesman yesterday confirmed that the company has
considered starting a zoned-pricing plan to compete with
UPS's ground-delivery service.
   But until it reverses overseas losses, Federal Express's
finances will pose limits. Yesterday, Standard  Poor's Corp.
lowered ratings on Federal Express's $200 million of
commercial paper to A-3 from A-2, citing "near-term liquidity
pressure" from the restructuring. The rating agency left
intact ratings on Federal Express's long-term debt totaling
$1.8 billion.
   In composite trading on the New York Stock Exchange
yesterday, Federal Express finished at $55.25 a share, up
$1.75 in heavy volume.
   ---
                      The Fundamentals
                                                                                                       

   Fiscal year                  1991      1990
                                                                                                       

   Revenue ($ bil.)            $7.69     $  7.02
   Net Income ($ mil.)         5.90*     115.80
   Earnings Per Share          0.11        2.18
                                                                                                       

   Competitors Become Deliverers:
                                                                                                       

   The company's restructuring means it will use competitors
to help deliver packages in Scandanavia, Spain, Great
Britain, Ireland, Portugal, Greece, Turkey, Austria and
Denmark.
                                                                                                       

   Help Wanted:
                                                                                                       

   The company is negotiating with partners in Italy, France
and Germany.
                                                                                                       

   *Net includes a pretax restructuring charge of $121
million.