New Line Cinema Sweetens Its Proposal
   For Control of Troubled Orion Pictures
   ----
   By Kevin Goldman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Orion's board is scheduled to vote on the revised proposal
sometime next week. Orion's board met Wednesday and
authorized the company to negotiate a letter of intent with
New Line, an independent film maker and distributor based in
New York and Los Angeles, and Orion's majority shareholder,
closely held Metromedia Co.
   The new terms provide that the public bondholders would
receive $60 million in principal amount of notes issued by
the reorganized Orion; the notes would bear interest at 11%
annually and would have a maturity of 10 years with sinking
fund provisions in the last four years. The original plan had
subordinated bondholders receiving $30 million in principal
amount of new 10% subordinated debentures due Feb. 28, 2007,
issued by the reorganized Orion.
   Furthermore, New Line will guarantee up to $4 million of
interest payable on the notes each year. The bondholders will
receive 45% of the common stock issued by the reorganized
Orion, instead of 41.5% as originally proposed, and 5% of the
outstanding stock of New Line, instead of 2.5%.
   New Line's proposed ownership of reorganized Orion would
be 46% and not 49.5% as originally outlined. The previously
announced consulting fee that would have been payable to
Metromedia, $600,000 annually for five years, is eliminated.
   Orion said that "in other material respects," the original
plan remains. Under the original plan, New Line and
Metromedia would invest $12.5 million each in Orion.
Metromedia, would own 7.5% of Orion with an option to
purchase 2.5% of New Line's stake, under the plan. Presently,
Metromedia, which is owned by billionaire John W. Kluge, owns
15.3 million shares, or a 70% stake in Orion, which produced
such films as "Silence of the Lambs" and "Dances with Wolves"
and became a haven for such directors as Woody Allen and
Jonathan Demme.
   Existing trade creditors and profit participants in
Orion's films and other production will be paid in full.
   Orion filed for Chapter 11 protection on Dec. 11, listing
assets of $1.1 billion and liabilities of $973 million. It
has about 420 employees.
   Michael Lynne, New Line's president and chief operating
officer, said in an interview last night, "We are very
encouraged by the considerable progress we have achieved in
the implementation of our plan. We believe the revised offer
to the bondholders will increase the likelihood that the
entire process will be successful for us."
   Mr. Ross, representing the bondholders, said, "We think it
represents substantial progress."
   Messrs. Lynne and Ross have worked closely together,
having dinner Tuesday evening and meeting throughout
Wednesday, while Orion's 13-member board met in New York.
   Other suitors can still make new offers, however.
Atlanta-based Turner Broadcasting System Inc. is considering
making a bid for Orion, not only for its vast library, but
for Orion's studios as well, according to people with
knowledge of the plans.
   Turner Broadcasting has declined comment.
   New Line's proposal needs the approval of the U.S.
Bankruptcy court.