Everyone Knows Bush Is Trying
   To Get the Japanese to Play Ball
   ----
   By Yumiko Ono
   Staff Reporter of the Wall Street Journal
But who, in the protocol-bound world of royalty, is
supposed to win? Some Japanese who play tennis with members
of the imperial family have conceded that they feel so
uncomfortable about thrashing royalty that they intentionally
lose.
   "I was scolded {by fellow players} for winning too
quickly," jokes one Tokyo tennis freak, who over a decade ago
mercilessly defeated Emperor Akihito after allowing his royal
opponent just one game. "I should have made {the score} a
little more even," he said.
   True, the 58-year-old emperor has long been an avid tennis
player. He met his wife, Empress Michiko, on a tennis court
more than 30 years ago. But the royals "are not the
aggressive attacker types" that rush to the net, says a
member of the prestigious Tokyo Lawn Tennis Club. "They keep
the rally going on and on, until the opponent misses."
   Mr. Bush, who promotes an image as a vigorous athlete,
reportedly hates to lose, and he's one down already. Four
years ago, the two men played at the White House during the
royal couple's tour of the U.S. Mr. Bush, who was then vice
president, and his partner George Shultz, who was then
secretary of state, took a drubbing from Emperor Akihito, who
was crown prince at the time. The score according to press
reports: 6-2, 6-1.
   The emperor is a solid base-line player and has a "very
steady forehand," Mr. Bush told Kyodo News Service in a past
interview. But he added that the emperor ventures into no
man's land -- the middle of the court. That weakness didn't
matter much during the White House match, since his partner
was Pam Shriver, a tennis pro known for her thunderous
smashes.
   Government officials from both countries say the outcome
isn't the point. If the match is held, it won't be televised,
and it isn't clear whether the score would even be announced.
   One thing is sure: Both nations are already losing a
bigger game. The majority of tennis rackets made for U.S. and
Japanese firms now come from Taiwan.