Occidental Suits
   By Shareholders
   Are Resolved
   ----
   By Pauline Yoshihashi
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The suits were filed against certain current and former
Occidental directors, Mr. Murdock and affiliates, and
Occidental as a nominal defendant. Those suits claimed, among
other things, that the buy-back was a waste of corporate
assets and charged the directors with breach of fiduciary
duty and negligence.
   Occidental has paid $3.5 million into a settlement escrow
fund on behalf of the directors for the class-action claims,
and the Murdock group has paid an additional $3.5 million to
settle the derivative claims. The settlement fund had
accumulated interest of $1.6 million at Dec. 1, 1991.
   Half of the fund, minus half the attorneys' fees, will be
distributed to the affected shareholders. The other half,
minus half the attorneys' fees, will be paid to Occidental.
Total plaintiffs' attorneys fees and costs granted by the
court were $1.3 million.
   The judge found that the directors had acted in good faith
in approving the stock buyback, and can therefore be
indemnified by Occidental for the claims. Because the company
will indemnify the directors and pay those costs, it will not
benefit monetarily from the settlement.
   The case goes back to Occidental's days as a sprawling
natural resources, chemicals and food-processing concern run
by the iron hand of the late Armand Hammer. Mr. Murdock, a
wealthy investor and Occidental board member, had become
influential at the company and played a key role in its
purchases of Cities Services Co. and Iowa Beef Processors
Inc. in the early 1980s.
   But Mr. Murdock, whom some observers had pegged as a
successor to the autocratic Dr. Hammer, had become
increasingly assertive and had challenged some of Dr.
Hammer's decisions. Eventually, Mr. Murdock agreed to sell
back the stake, resign from the board and the executive
committee, and vote his remaining preferred stock with
management. He also agreed not to buy any additional company
stock for ten years.
   A spokeswoman said Mr. Murdock was unreachable for
comment. A lawyer for the plaintiffs did not return telephone
calls.