Lowell Rott First
   Lost His Farmland,
   Now Loses Horses
   ---
   Sheriff, Alleging Abuse, Takes
   Animals Into Custody,
   Arousing the Community
   ----
   By Robert Johnson
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Sheriff J.B. Esry put Mr. Rott in jail and called in the
Humane Society to help round up 24 saddle horses. The
allegations conjured up images of starving and neglected
beasts. But now, dozens of Mr. Rott's neighbors, rallying to
his support, are trying to help him get his horses back. They
say he is the one who has been abused -- by the officials who
seized animals he loves. Earlier, hard times had taken from
him just about everything else he owned.
   The case has brought on a communitywide debate about the
rights of the poor (Mr. Rott is poor) and the general loss of
patience with the homeless (Mr. Rott is a squatter).
   Mr. Rott's supporters say that the charges against him
were trumped up and that his real offense is his ragged
appearance and lack of permanent domicile. The abandoned
two-room house without running water he calls home is a
notorious eyesore. That he offered temporary shelter to two
animals in a decrepit horse trailer near the shack in which
he lives was the immediate cause of the sheriff's horse
roundup, officials say.
   But even some locals who at first backed the sheriff's
action say they are embarrassed and angry about it today.
Harve Danks, a private investigator and Humane Society
volunteer who has been caring for two of the confiscated
horses, is among those who have changed their minds. "When I
first heard that horses were supposedly left without food or
other care, I wanted to get hold of the man who did it." But
once Mr. Danks got "a close look at the horses," he concluded
that "they were in good shape." He adds: "I feel for the
man."
   Mr. Rott, who was mentioned last March in a Wall Street
Journal story about the rural homeless, is a tall, rugged
51-year-old. His farm was auctioned off on the courthouse
steps in 1986 to pay $40,000 in debts and back taxes. These
days he keeps a hand in farming by raising horses, mostly
castoffs, on land belonging to sympathetic neighbors.
   Charles Washam, the sheriff's deputy who investigated the
alleged horse abuse and who led the seizure, has run out of
the sympathy he says he used to feel for Mr. Rott. "It just
goes on and on. I have worked with him for years. He can't
help himself, yet he has horses running around everywhere."
   Sheriff's deputies say they have received half a dozen
complaints about Mr. Rott since 1989 -- that some of his
horses roamed loose on country roads, that he has been
overdue on feed bills and that he has sometimes pastured the
animals on land he didn't have permission to use.
   But Roger Allison, a farmer who directs the Missouri Rural
Crisis Center, a group that helps the poor with grants and
loans, is a Rott partisan: "Lowell loves those horses. They
represent his dream to own a farm again and make something of
himself. Many people around here have had to give up their
dreams in the last few years."
   Gary Stamper, an attorney who has taught American Humane
Association seminars on investigating horse abuse, has been
hired by Mr. Rott's friends. Mr. Stamper says, "Proving he
didn't neglect the horses is easy. But showing that destitute
people can still be trusted and that falling through the
cracks of the economy doesn't mean you're incompetent may be
harder."
   Two veterinarians who examined Mr. Rott's horses when they
were impounded Dec. 9 say they were healthy. Both say they
will testify for Mr. Rott when his case comes to court. No
trial date has been set and Mr. Rott is free on $300 bond put
up by friends.
   Mr. Rott has a good reputation in equine circles. Frances
Payne, a horse breeder in nearby Columbia, says Mr. Rott
first visited her farm when she ran a newspaper ad to sell a
troublesome mare two years ago. The horse was too
temperamental to ride, recalls Mrs. Payne. Mr. Rott made
gentle suggestions for training it, she recalls. "I realized
he was the kind of person who should have her. He didn't have
any money, so I gave her to him," she says.
   Mr. Rott's neighbors say he has turned the mare, Silver
Shadow, into a dependable riding horse.
   Neighbors tell of how Mr. Rott recently saved an injured
horse whose owner was going to destroy it. Mr. Rott massaged
its shoulder and cushioned the injury with fresh straw when
the animal slept.
   Carol Perkins Brower, who teaches adult high-school
classes in nearby Moberly, has leased two riding horses from
Mr. Rott. She cites Mr. Rott's way of calling his horses into
a stall or trailer without using a halter. "They respond to
him. Mistreated animals don't do that," says Mrs. Brower.
   But all these testimonials don't impress Deputy Washam,
who led the posse. "If Rott's so good with horses, let him
get a job taking care of them," he suggests. Sheriff Esry
agrees.
   But such minimum-wage jobs are few in Central Missouri,
breeders say. Mr. Rott makes out better as a handyman and
from sometimes renting his horses for riding or for stud.
Nine of Mr. Rott's confiscated mares are expecting in the
spring.
   Before Mr. Rott can get his horses back, or even get
visiting rights to see the foals, he must confront Mike
Fusselman, the prosecuting attorney for Randolph County. He
has charged Mr. Rott with two misdemeanor counts, each
carrying a maximum sentence of a year in jail. He says Mr.
Rott will get off easier if he pleads guilty.
   But Mr. Fusselman's case might just crumble in court.
Nevin Turner, a Humane Society investigator who helped take
the horses, says they "were in reasonably good shape." He
adds: "I wouldn't have taken them all. But we didn't conduct
the investigation. We were just called in to help the
sheriff's department." And Mr. Turner regrets that the posse
didn't bother to obtain a warrant before it swooped down on
the horses.
   Donald Anthony, general manager for the Humane Society of
Missouri, says the society didn't heed its usual practice of
having a veterinarian inspect the horses before they were
removed. "This was a little off the track for us, as far as
methodology," he says. But, he says, he had no choice but to
respond to the sheriff's call.
   Two veterinarians who know Mr. Rott did have a look at the
horses and videotaped the critters just before they were
hauled away. "They were well fed, wormed and otherwise cared
for," says John Parker, of Columbia. Arthur Dobson, the other
local vet who inspected the horses, says seizing them was
wrong. "This wasn't a case of abuse."
   Mr. Rott, who lives alone with a stray dog he adopted last
year, misses his horses. "They're my family," he says softly.
He says he could feed them for three months with the $300 in
bond money it took to spring him from jail. The Humane
Society had planned to put up the horses in a shelter at
Union, Mo., but didn't have room. So it is caring for most of
them as Mr. Rott had done, pasturing them on borrowed land.