To Win This Rodeo,
   Man and Backhoe
   Must Become One
   ---
   Dig This, as Harvey Neigum
   Tries to Do the Moonwalk
   With an 8-ton Machine
   ----
   By John R. Wilke
   Staff Reporter of the Wall Street Journal
This is the first North American Backhoe Rodeo
Championship, a rodeo with no bucking broncos, no bull riders
and no cowboys. In this championship, the horses are under
the hood and the only things in danger of being bruised are
egos. "In the construction industry, this is something like
the Olympics," says David Hawley of OCT Equipment Inc., a
bulldozer dealer in Tulsa, Okla. "They can make these
machines stand up and dance."
   Of more than 10,000 construction workers who competed in
local fairs across the country, just the best 115 are here,
surrounded by several hundred supporters. With a lot more
than pride at stake -- the J I Case equipment unit of Tenneco
Inc., which sponsors the event, offers a $10,000 grand prize
-- the contestants take this very seriously. Jim Hart, a
Bangor, Maine, water district employee, practiced for the
finals by trying to strike kitchen matches with the bucket of
his hoe. Another contestant had his wife videotape practice
sessions and played them back in slow-motion to perfect his
style. A third practiced by plucking an egg from a bucket of
sand using a tablespoon taped to a tooth of his backhoe.
   "If you got an itch on the end of your nose, I can scratch
it with the bucket of my backhoe -- that's how good I am,"
boasts Kevin Gannon, a burly, sun-red Texan, before he fishes
a Budweiser from the ice-filled mouth of a front-end loader
at a country-and-western hoedown the night before the finals.
   But maneuvering a 23-foot hydraulic hoe, or shovel, isn't
so easy when the pressure is on. In the six events, every
second counts. Events are timed, and the contestant with the
lowest score -- number of seconds plus penalty points for
dropping or breaking anything -- is the winner. Professional
referees, on loan from the Western Collegiate Association,
are armed with stopwatches, whistles and striped shirts.
   There's more to successfully operating a backhoe than
people realize, say the contestants. "You've got to be pretty
damn good to dig around gas lines in frozen ground," explains
Gil Gauthier, an owner-operator from Manitoba, Canada, who
was competing at the rodeo while on his honeymoon. There also
are water, sewer, cable TV, phone and electric lines to worry
about, not to mention fiber-optic cables, which can cost tens
of thousands of dollars to fix. "You cut a fiber-optic cable
and you might as well drive that backhoe home, because your
company is out of business," says Darin Kilbourne of
Fairbanks, Alaska.
   As the event begins, Brian Felix, a whistle-toting referee
who acts like he's still on the gridiron, is appalled that
"some of the older guys were so cocky they didn't want a
warm-up." (Contestants were allowed 30 seconds to warm up
themselves and their identically equipped backhoes.) Despite
his confidence the night before, Mr. Gannon fades fast. In
his first event -- the pipe-walk, which involves picking up
five-foot plastic pipes by an attached hoop and moving them
from one holder to another -- he's nearly knocked out of the
running. After a fast start, one pipe slips from his grasp,
resulting in a 90-point penalty.
   Even more difficult is the dreaded "combo" event, which
requires that three tasks be done in quick succession: using
the backhoe bucket to balance a pipe on a pylon, picking up a
pail and putting it into a holder, and completing a
tic-tac-toe sequence by dropping two balls hanging from the
hoe onto an oversized wooden game board.
   Louis Forget, a young construction worker from Quebec who
rode his first backhoe at age nine, sprints to the lead by
finishing this event in an astonishing 58 seconds. Gravity
itself seems to be on his side as the backhoe bucket snaps to
his command. What's his secret? "You must empty your mind and
think of nothing" so that the backhoe becomes an extension of
your arm, he explains through an interpreter. The backhoe's
six hydraulic control levers and two foot pedals must become
second nature, he says.
   A thrill goes through the crowd as Mr. Forget's time is
posted on the scoreboard. Still, it puts him just one second
ahead of Mr. Neigum, who simply says, "It ain't over 'til
it's over."
   Everyone seems to have a cheerleading section.
Six-year-old Christopher Garland is on hand to root for his
dad, Ed, of Cottekill, N.Y. As Mr. Garland gingerly guides a
piece of lumber into a six-inch hoop in the form-set event,
the crowd hushes, but the son shrugs. "That's easy," he says.
The six-year-old explains that he first rode a backhoe when
he was just a small boy of two. "His first word was
`tractor,'" says his mother, Patricia.
   The leader, Mr. Forget, surges further ahead with a record
38 seconds in the form-set. Mr. Neigum, poker-faced during
the difficult task, manages a 46-second showing.
   But in Mr. Forget's third event, the pipe-walk, he fumbles
a prop and earns an automatic 90-point penalty. Mr. Neigum
takes the lead.
   Concentration is everything: Marshal Ipson, owner of
Prairie Dog Backhoe in Andrews, Texas, is hot at the halfway
mark. But as he mounts his machine to begin the fourth event,
he gets an urgent call: His wife has gone into labor, weeks
early. He can't get any more information before resuming the
contest, and he's clearly shaken. He drops a pipe in the
pipe-walk and turns in a dismal showing in his final three
events. "I just couldn't concentrate," he says. "I'm sure I
could've made it to the top 10 otherwise." Says his wife,
Mary: "I guess I blew it for him." But Mary and baby daughter
D'lena are doing fine.
   By afternoon, Mr. Neigum, pride of Medicine Hat, Canada,
has hit his stride. "You're part of the machine. It's part of
you," he says. He enjoys a strong lead, but can still lose it
all with a slip of the control lever. He revs his engine and
gets to work. The "moonwalk" requires contestants to scoop up
three pipes chained to lead weights, place the pipes into
cradles -- and simultaneously make sure the weights are
dropped into nearby sockets. To spice things up, a basketball
is put into the backhoe bucket, where it must remain until
the event is over.
   "This one looks easy," he says as he mounts his machine.
Then he seems to toy with the crowd. It lets out a gasp as he
nearly drops the basketball right off the bat. But a little
grin suggests the bobbling is just showboating. Then, Mr.
Neigum -- using his unusual cross-handed technique to operate
the six levers -- artfully scoops up the pipes, coaxes a
wildly swinging weight into its socket, goes on to win and is
drenched in champagne.
   Mr. Neigum, a man of few words, says he plans to take a
vacation with the prize money. But his beaming wife, Cheryl,
says she's "headed for the first available mall."
   Sam Hill, an old-time Ventura, Calif., backhoe jockey who
sat out the rodeo, has a simple explanation. "There's a
certain rhythm to it," he says. "Some folks are born with it,
and some ain't."