Heard on the Street:
   Nova Corp. Attracts Investors Who Applaud
   Quick Steps to Improve Long-Term Prospects
   ----
   By Suzanne McGee
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Nevertheless, institutional and small investors scrambled
to get a piece of Nova's C$240 million equity issue last
week. Investment industry people say the 35-million-share
issue was sold out within minutes, with two-thirds of it
snapped up by some of Canada's largest institutions,
including Caisse de Depot et Placement, the Quebec
government's pension fund agency.
   "People are getting a sense that the story with Nova is
really improving," says Eleanor Barker, an analyst with Sanwa
McCarthy in Toronto. "Their minds are boggled by the speed
with which major decisions have been made and actions taken
that improve the company's prospects."
   Proceeds of the offering will help Nova cut debt
associated with its non-utility chemicals operations to
slightly more than C$300 million, compared with C$947 million
at the end of 1990. That in turn will make it easier to raise
capital for a massive expansion of Nova's natural gas
pipeline operations this year and next. The company has said
it expects to spend up to C$1.35 billion over the next two
years to boost capacity of its Alberta gas transmission
network.
   Ms. Barker, a long-time skeptic on the stock, is
considering changing her opinion on Nova to recommend that
investors buy the shares on weakness, in pursuit of long-term
growth.
   Since a new president and chief executive officer, Edward
Newall, joined Nova in September, Nova has merged its
chemicals and plastics operations, cut management ranks 25%,
closed some money-losing chemicals facilities, halved its
quarterly dividend and undertaken a comprehensive review of
its business. All the measures were hailed as overdue by
Canada's investment community.
   Cedric Rabin, vice president of Altamira Management, a
Toronto investment management concern, says he acquired some
Nova shares in last week's offering. "It's a turnaround
situation; I think that the values here are compelling," he
says. "It won't triple in the next few months, but the worst
is over."
   Mr. Newall says costs at the chemicals operations have
been cut C$75 million annually after tax; he expects the
petrochemicals division to break even this year. "Overall, we
should see much better results {on an operating basis} than
we had in 1991, even though it's the bottom of the chemicals
price cycle," he said.
   Improving corporate results will be due to higher earnings
from the company's pipeline utility, Mr. Newall said. The
pipeline is expanding to meet demand by Alberta gas producers
for more transportation capability.
   "This is the bottom of the cycle; it's hard to believe
things will get much worse," says Richard Wyman, an analyst
with Peters  Co. in Calgary. "I kind of doubt {Nova} will be
a stellar performer financially this year, but the stock
could have a lot of upside in the longer term."
   Mr. Newall says it is likely to be 1993 before Nova's
earnings power is unleashed, though the company probably will
be profitable this year. But he says the rebound will be all
the greater because of last year's write-downs. There is a
"strong unlikelihood" that the company will sell more assets,
he adds; "I don't believe in buying high and selling low. I
needed to sell {Nova's 43% stake in oil and gas producer}
Husky {Oil Ltd.}, but I don't need to sell anything else. I'm
not going to dissipate shareholder value."
   Mr. Newall's decisive actions have helped stabilize the
stock price. Following a dip to C$7.25 on news of the
C$7.15-a-share equity issue, the stock has rebounded to
C$7.75 in Toronto; on the Big Board it was trading at 6 5/8
(U.S.) late yesterday.
   "We actually sold our Nova shares some time ago in order
to put money into some relatively more attractive utilities,"
such as some Canadian telephone stocks, says David Bissett of
Bissett  Associates, a Calgary-based investment fund
manager.
   But now that the telephone stocks he bought have risen in
value, and future investments in that area are beginning to
seem expensive, Mr. Bissett says he is wondering if it isn't
time to take another close look at Nova. "It's still not out
of the woods, but we're scratching our heads over it," Mr.
Bissett says. "Things are moving much more rapidly than we
expected there, and in a positive direction."
   ---
   Nova Corp.
   (NYSE; Symbol: NVA)
                                                                                                       

   Business: Gas pipelines and petrochemicals
                                                                                                       

   Year ended Dec. 31, 1990:
   Revenue: $4.74 billion
   Net Income: $185 million; 56 cents a share
                                                                                                       

   Third quarter, Sept. 30, 1991:
   Per share earnings*: 9 cents vs. 41 cents
                                                                                                       

   Average daily trading volume: 135,971 shares
                                                                                                       

   Common shares outstanding: 361 million**
                                                                                                       

   *Income from continuing operations.
   **Including 35-million-share issue to be completed next
month.
   Note: All dollar figures are in Canadian dollars.