LEISURE  ARTS:
   Home Brew: Orgy of Caf
   ----
   By Thomas J. Meyer
An acquaintance who visited the Northwest from Southern
California last year told me he was amused that
Northwesterners are known for their friendly dispositions and
healthy lifestyles, when, in fact, they overindulge to an
alarming degree in less-than-model behavior -- specifically,
the consumption of large quantities of coffee and beer. "No
wonder everyone seems so happy," he said. "They're either
high on caffeine or they're drunk."
   It is true that in the past decade, these two beverages
have become defining features of the region. But why?
Consider, first, the circular theory: Northwesterners drink
so much coffee to get over the beer hangover; and they drink
so much beer to come down from the caffeine rush. Then again,
maybe it's just the weather: Is it any surprise that when
people live in an excessively moist climate, their obsessions
focus on fluids?
   Eskimos, we've all heard, have dozens of words for snow.
The Hawaiian language has myriad terms to describe ocean
waves. Seattlites have scores of ways of saying "Cup o' Joe,
please." And as many places to use them.
   This city boasts an espresso cart on nearly every downtown
corner, in front of every grocery, in the lobby of every
office tower. Starbucks Coffee Co. -- the Seattle-based
gourmet coffee chain that not only sells beverages but
proselytizes for a caffeinated lifestyle -- lists 42 outlets
in the Seattle phone book alone.
   One morning in Portland, I pulled up in my Honda to the
window of a place called Motor Moka, a Burger King converted
into a drive-thru espresso bar, where diesel fumes mingle
with the heady aroma of fresh-ground Italian java. "Decaf
latte," I said.
   "$1.35. Pull up, please."
   It is impossible to escape coffee in the Northwest.
Horizon Airlines, a commuter line serving much of the region,
advertises itself as the only carrier featuring gourmet
coffees on all its flights. Every rest stop along Interstate
5 between Seattle and Portland offers free coffee to
motorists. (Inexplicably, decaf is an option.)
   On the counter at a Seattle coffee bar, I came across Cafe
Ole, a glossy monthly with articles like "The Story of Coffee
in the Civil War," ads for bean roasters, and a comic strip
called "Buzz." Who reads such stuff? I think they must be
some of the same folks who hang around cliquish neighborhood
coffee bars and distinguish themselves from casual visitors
by bringing their own mugs. This entitles them to a nominal
discount, but it also serves as a membership card of sorts;
it says, "I belong here, drinking my mocha."
   The regulars also make themselves apparent linguistically.
They speak Coffee Talk. Steve Martin's film "L.A. Story"
spoofed this coffeebabble in a memorable moment, the camera
spinning around a table full of diners, each order topping
the last: "Decaf," "Double decaf," "Double-double decaf --
with a twist." But that scene will seem tame once you have
made the real-life scene on any weekday morning at the
Starbucks at Seattle's Columbia Seafirst Center tower, the
chain's highest-volume outlet. There, office workers queue up
in five lines, each 10 or 15 deep, and call out orders for
espresso drinks in a dizzying variety of combinations. (It's
the sort of efficient fast-food arrangement in which you
might, under different circumstances, hear someone in a paper
hat yell something along the lines of: "Whopper]") Starbucks
sounds something like this:
   SERVER: "Can I help you?"
   CUSTOMER: "I'll have a large iced cafe latte, and could
you make that with 2% milk?"
   SERVER (rapid-fire, to espresso-bar operator):
"Tallcoldskinnylatte]"
   CUSTOMER: "Could you make that half decaffeinated?"
   SERVER: "Sure."
   SERVER (to operator): "Make it a half-caf]"
   CUSTOMER No. 2: "A large latte with skim milk, please."
   SERVER (to operator): "Grande non]"
   CUSTOMER No. 3: "Could I get an almond cappucino, with
just a quarter-inch of foam?"
   And so on.
   Observing the line one morning, I heard one customer order
a cafe latte-espresso with foamed milk -- "without any foam."
I may be mistaken, but this seemed a bit like ordering a
cheeseburger without cheese. Nevertheless, the server took
the order in stride: "Latte, no foam]"
   An overcrowded espresso bar seems like the ultimate
experience in beverage intimidation -- until you find
yourself in a brewpub, one of the dozens of Northwest
establishments serving beers and ales brewed on the premises.
A solid grounding in Budweiser or even Heineken is inadequate
preparation. (A chemistry degree, however, is a plus.)
   McMenamin's, an Oregon brewpub chain with outlets in
virtually every Portland neighborhood, offers a variety of
beverages with names that shed little light on their content:
Feel like a Hammerhead? How about a Terminator, or a Bagdad,
or a Black Rabbit? You never know quite what you might turn
up in your next pint glass. For New Year's Eve 1990, a
Portland pub called the Blue Moon brewed itself a special
eponymous ale made with blueberries and lunar minerals.
(Generally, I ask for my moon rocks on the side.)
   My standard pub procedure is to get someone who knows his
hops from his barley to order for me, then I sip quietly and
murmur comments like" Hmm. Good one."
   Occasionally, the regional furor over liquid nourishment
becomes so oppressive that it's best just to sit things out.
At a restaurant one recent evening, my attempt to sidestep
the inevitable beverage fuss proved a failure. "Anything to
drink with that?" the waitress asked. I told her I'd just
have a glass of water.
   "What kind?"
   ---
   Mr. Meyer is a free-lance writer based in Portland, Ore.