Health:
   Firms Restrain
   Rate of Growth
   Of Health Costs
   ----
   By Ron Winslow
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
"Employers needed quick and dirty reductions in their
health numbers" in the face of a recession that depressed
profits, he said. Increasing the amount of premiums,
deductibles and other out-of-pocket costs for their employees
is much faster and easier than establishing broad
cost-containment programs.
   Indeed, despite intense efforts by insurers and
consultants such as Foster Higgins to market "managed-care
programs," the percentage of employees covered by such
programs last year was about the same as in 1990, according
to the survey.
   The 12% increase pushed total employer health costs to
$3,605 per employee last year, more than double the amount
five years earlier. But it was much lower than the 1990
increase of 17.1%. According to the Bureau of Labor
Statistics, consumer prices rose 3.1%, while overall
medicalcare prices rose 7.9%.
   The slower growth rate at companies is consistent with
other surveys. For instance, Medstat Systems Inc., an Ann
Arbor, Mich., concern with a health claims database covering
75 large companies, estimates 1991 costs rose less than 10%.
A Health Insurance Association of America survey shows about
12% growth, said Richard Curtis, director of policy
development and research.
   "It's a trend in the right direction," he said. But he and
others disagree with Mr. Erb that cost-containment efforts
reflected in managed-care health plans aren't having an
important effect. Mr. Curtis said the industry trade group's
data show that about 46% of employees covered by
company-sponsored health plans are enrolled in managed-care
plans, up from 38% in 1990.
   Mary Jane England, president of the Washington Business
Group on Health, said managed-care programs, in which
companies and their insurers negotiate discounts with
hospitals and selected networks of physicians, are helping to
reduce costs, especially among larger firms.
   The Foster Higgins survey did show that among companies
with more than 5,000 employees, health costs increased just
9.4% over 1990. And it shows that 73% of firms offer some
type of managed care to their employees. But Mr. Erb says
that among all companies, the report indicates that most of
the reduced growth is reflected in costs of traditional
fee-for-service plans. It was in those kinds of plans that
employers increased the amount of health care that their
employees paid for themselves.
   For instance, for fee-for-service plans, employers who
require employees to pay a portion of the premium boosted the
amount an average of 12.9% to $35 a month for employee-only
coverage; for family coverage, the employee share jumped
17.4% to $101 a month, or 28% of the total premium.
   Deductibles, the amount employees pay for services before
their company insurance kicks in, jumped as well. In 32% of
plans, the survey found, the family deductible has reached at
least $500. For employees in the $20,000 to $30,000 salary
range, Mr. Erb said, such increases in health costs wipe out
any salary rises.
   Mr. Erb says cost benefits achieved with such a strategy
amount to one-time events. Meanwhile, he and others note that
the progress achieved in 1991 could be jeopardized in part by
a new federal policy that changes reimbursement of doctors'
fees for Medicare patients. Many experts expect that medical
specialists whose payments are reduced under the new policy
will seek to recover lost income with higher bills to
private-sector customers, a development that would put
pressure on 1992 corporate health bills.
   Companies will have to "tighten up on health-care provider
networks and drive harder bargains in negotiating their
rates," says Dr. England of the Washington business group.
   Among other findings from the Foster Higgins survey:
   -- Traditional fee-for-service medical plan costs
increased 13% to $3,573 per employee; costs for these plans
jumped more than 20% in each of the two previous years.
   -- Health services companies reported the highest average
rate of increase in fee-for-service costs at 21.1%.
Communications and financial services companies also had
above average increases.
   -- One-third of companies offered so-called wellness and
fit programs intended to help employees stay healthy, up from
27% in 1990. Nearly two-thirds of employees said they have a
smoke-free workplace policy.