Economy:
   Home Builders See a Pickup in January;
   Limited December Sales Increased 6.7%
   ---
   Lack of Confidence Stunted
   Any Rally Last Month;
   Home Prices Rose 9.1%
   ----
   By Mitchell Pacelle
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
"We still have two real important pieces that seem to be
missing -- consumer confidence and a good set of employment
numbers," said John Savacool, who covers residential real
estate for the WEFA Group, an economic forecasting and
consulting firm based in Bala Cynwyd, Pa.
   Economists and real estate experts point out, however,
that the December figures do not reflect the year-end drop in
mortgage rates to their lowest level since the mid-1970s.
Sales prompted by the lower rates will probably not close
until late January and February, they said.
   "I'm reasonably optimistic that existing home sales will
pick up in January, and even more in February," said Lyle
Gramley, chief economist for the Mortgage Bankers
Association.
   No one, however, expects a repeat of the sales surge that
occurred last February, when consumer confidence soared after
favorable news in the Persian Gulf War. That rally withered
during the summer due to the lackluster economy.
   For the year as a whole, sales totaled 3.3 million, 0.3%
below 1990 and the lowest annual total since 1985.
   In much of the country, late January and early February is
considered the beginning of the home-buying season, which
stretches to late spring.
   Brokers report that sales generated by trade-up buyers are
gradually improving, as the continuing strong market among
first-time buyers frees up sellers.
   In November, industrywide sales volume rose 10% in the
Northeast and 3.8% in the West, but dropped 0.7% in the South
and 2.2% in the Midwest.
   Median sales prices rose 2.6% in the West and 2.3% in the
South. They edged down 0.7% in the Northeast and 0.4% in the
Midwest.
   (See related story: "As Interest Rates Kick In, Trade
Group Predicts 15% Rise in 1992 Sales" -- WSJ Jan. 28, 1992)