Wednesday's Markets:
   Bonds Soar,
   And Stocks
   Hit Record
   ---
   Strong 5-Year Sale
   Ignites a Rally;
   The Dollar Falls
   ----
   By Douglas R. Sease
   Staff Reporter of the Wall Street Journal
Although traders said the bond market's big afternoon
rally sent stock prices climbing, the stock market had
already rebounded earlier in the day from Tuesday's sharp
drop. That retreat was triggered by a shocking decline in
consumer confidence. Yesterday, the news turned positive.
   The government reported durable goods orders in January
rose 1.5%, more than double the average forecast of a 0.6%
gain. The report provided some solace to investors who had
been worried that eroding consumer confidence might push the
economy into a further decline.
   The bond market, which usually reacts negatively to signs
of economic growth, nevertheless rose modestly in early
trading. Then the strong bidding for the Treasury's sale of
$9.76 billion in five-year notes set bond traders off on a
buying spree across the spectrum of Treasury debt issues.
   The average yield on the new five-year issue was 6.75% and
prices continued to climb after the auction. Prices of
longer-term issues soared even further. The Treasury's
benchmark 30-year issue gained nearly one and quarter points,
or almost $12.50 for each $1,000 face amount. The yield on
the issue, which only a week ago was hovering near 8%, now
stands at 7.84%.
   Bond traders said Treasury bond prices also got a boost
after wire-service reports that Federal Reserve Chairman Alan
Greenspan said the central bank is considering purchasing
long-term bonds in an effort to bring down interest rates.
But Fed officials said Mr. Greenspan wasn't signalling any
change in Fed policy and the Fed's vice chairman, David
Mullins, later said it would be a mistake for the Fed to
attempt such a maneuver.
   Yesterday's stock market rally set off fresh debate among
traders over whether the Dow industrials can break through
3300 before a correction sets in. With long-term interest
rates at nearly 8% last week, the betting was running against
the Dow's chances of rising significantly. But yesterday's
rally put the Dow back within range of 3300.
   The dollar, which rallied briefly on the durable goods
report, reversed course and fell in New York trading. All
other things being equal, falling interest rates tend to make
a currency less attractive to foreign investors.
   In major market action:
                                                                                                       

   Stock prices rallied. Volume totaled 240.7 million shares
on the New York Stock Exchange, where 1,141 issues rose and
578 fell.
                                                                                                       

   Bond prices soared. But rates on short-term Treasury bills
rose slightly.
                                                                                                       

   The dollar fell. In late New York trading, the currency
was quoted at 1.6460 marks and 129.15 yen, compared with
1.6579 marks and 129.80 yen Tuesday.