International:
   World Wire
   ----
   Compiled by Richard L. Holman
Growth in world trade volume last year was held to its
lowest level since 1983 by slumping economies, Eastern
Europe's industrial decline and the Gulf War.
   The U.S., which recaptured from Germany the No. 1 ranking
among exporters, joined Japan and other Asian countries in
improving trade balances, partly because of competitive
currencies. Western Europe came in below the world average.
   The General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, in its annual
review of 108 member countries, said merchandise trade growth
slowed to about 3% last year from a 5% increase in 1990,
marking the third consecutive year of retarded expansion. The
report predicts 4% growth at best in trade volume this year,
as the U.S. economy takes its time recovering, and the German
and Japanese economies continue to lose steam. The 1991
merchandise trade values rose only 1.5% to $3.53 trillion,
stumbling from a 13.5% climb in 1990. Trade in commercial
services, which grew 17% in 1990, advanced only 4.9% to $850
billion.
   Despite the overall slowdown, the 3% trade growth rate
last year still outpaced the 1% growth in overall economic
output, underscoring the expanding role of trade as economies
become more international.
                                                                                                       

   LOWER TELEPHONE CHARGES URGED
                                                                                                       

   A telecommunications body recommended that international
telephone charges be reduced. The United Nations-sponsored
International Telegraph and Telephone Consultative Committee
in Geneva proposed that setting phone charges between any two
countries be based on actual costs. It urged that if a
resulting reduction in standard rates is sharp, this should
be phased in over one to five years.
                                                                                                       

   CHILE TO IMPROVE CELLULAR SERVICE
                                                                                                       

   The CTC Cellular branch of Chilean Telephone Co. will
expand and improve cellular telephone service this year. The
$25 million program includes installation of an automated
answering system for unattended phones. The cellular network
will be expanded in Santiago, the capital, and some central
coast cities. The service now covers 90% of urban areas in
Santiago and Valparaiso, Chile's second-largest city.
                                                                                                       

   PERU TO GET NEW AID FROM JAPAN
                                                                                                       

   Japan promised it would provide Peru a grant and loans
totaling about $127 million for economic reconstruction.
Peru's president, Alberto Fujimori, had asked Japan's
parliament for aid to help overcome poverty in his country,
which he pledged would become a model of Latin American
economic development patterned on Japan. He also sought help
in developing Peru's vast natural resources, and funds to
protect the Amazon region. Peru earlier got $426 million in
Japanese aid. Tokyo will resume trade insurance coverage for
Japanese exports to and investments in Peru.
   In Peru, about 18,000 oil workers began a 48-hour strike
to protest the industry's privatization, and 3,500 copper
employees struck for higher wages. To revive its economy and
spur competition, Lima is selling about 100 big, unprofitable
firms.
                                                                                                       

   BOLIVIA VOWS TO CONTINUE REFORMS
                                                                                                       

   Bolivia installed a new government that vowed to continue
free-market economic policies. In the fourth reshuffle since
he took office in August 1989, President Jaime Paz Zamora
swore in eight new cabinet ministers and reappointed nine
others. The new finance minister, Jorge Quiroga, a former
planning undersecretary for relations with foreign lending
and aid groups, has played key roles in renegotiating foreign
debt and attracting foreign aid.
                                                                                                       

   BANKING CONCENTRATION SEEN
                                                                                                       

   Citing banks' profit squeeze and the financial industry's
splintering in recent years, the Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development predicted the emergence of
financial conglomerates. For now, the OECD said, financial
fragility and stricter regulation have caused many banks to
focus on core activities and seek out profitable niches. But
given the trend of fewer competitive restraints, the report
said, firms will increasingly offer more extensive advisory
and direct services in banking, securities and insurance.
                                                                                                       

   EC UTILITIES PROTECT TURF
                                                                                                       

   European electricity utilities launched an offensive
against a European Community proposal to end their
monopolies.
   An EC Commission plan to open utilitiy transmission grids
to outside parties would favor large users and hurt small
consumers, create market instability and lead to intrusive
controls, the Eurelectric lobby said. Britain, where grids
were opened 18 months ago, didn't join the protest.
   The EC Commission legislation, to take effect in January,
would force open limited access to grids to let the outside
parties transport power. That would allow big industrial
users to shop around for the best prices, exposing protected
national utilities to competition. To foster more disclosure,
it also would require separate accounting and management of
production, transmission and distribution activities.
   Eurelectric said the plan doesn't account for EC
countries' varying legal, business and market conditions, and
energy and environmental policies.
                                                                                                       

   POSTSCRIPTS . . .
                                                                                                       

   Poland's Securities Commission meted out its first
punishments for professional or ethical violations since the
stock market opened 11 months ago. Three brokers' licenses
were yanked or suspended. . . . Legislation was introduced in
Greece to stem extensive, and growing, tax evasion. The
measure calls for heavy fines, jail terms as long as two
years and cash incentives for informers.