Who's News:
   Johnson Products'
   Chief Quits; Family
   Discord Is Reported
   ----
   By Jeff Bailey
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Mr. Johnson, 40 years old, had overseen a turnaround at
the company during the past three years. Crain's Chicago
Business, a weekly publication, reported this past weekend
that Mrs. Johnson, who is the company's chairman, had been
moving to fire her son.
   Yesterday, neither of the Johnsons could be reached for
comment. Thomas P. Polke, the company's chief financial
officer and a director, wouldn't elaborate on a brief
statement the company issued that said Mr. Johnson was
leaving to pursue personal business interests.
   The statement said the company planned to form an "office
of the president" made up of "several key executives," but it
didn't name those officers or say whether anyone would assume
the chief executive officer's post. Mrs. Johnson's daughter,
also named Joan Johnson, is employed by the company as well.
She couldn't be reached for comment.
   In trading on the American Stock Exchange yesterday,
Johnson Products stock closed at $19.50, off 87.5 cents.
   The company was founded in 1954 by Mr. Johnson's father,
George E. Johnson, and pioneered the market for hair relaxer,
once holding an 80% market share. As the market has grown to
about $200 million a year, however, the company's share has
slipped to as low as 15% as competitors entered the market.
The senior Mr. Johnson relinquished control of the company --
and an approximately 60% stake -- to Mrs. Johnson in a 1989
divorce settlement.
   Since then, under the younger Mr. Johnson, sales have
increased and the company has registered solid profits. Last
May, he proposed to take the company private for $17.25 a
share, with his mother initially owning the entire company,
by buying the 39% of the company's 1.2 million shares
outstanding that she didn't already own.
   The buy-out plan was dropped the next month, however,
after other shareholders challenged the move in a lawsuit.
   For the year ended Aug. 31, 1991, Johnson Products had net
income of $3.2 million, or $2.67 a share, on sales of $38.4
million. Net included a gain of $1.3 million from a tax-loss
carry-forward.
   Fiscal 1991's sales were 14.6% higher than the
year-earlier's $33.5 million. In fiscal 1990, net was $2.1
million, or $1.78 a share, after combined gains, from the
sale of an investment and a $1 million tax-loss
carry-forward.
   While running the company, the younger Mr. Johnson
introduced some new products and cut costs by reducing the
number of employees.