What's News --
   World-Wide
Illinois was also the scene of bitter fights among
Democrats that threatened losses by four House incumbents and
put Sen. Dixon's seat in jeopardy.
   --
   AN EXPLOSION DESTROYED Israel's Buenos Aires embassy,
killing at least 10. Police in the Argentine capital said
more than 106 people were injured in the blast, and rescuers
worked through the night to try to dig out 30 believed buried
in the rubble. Some of those killed or injured were children
from a nearby primary school. President Menem called the
blast a "terrorist act" and Israel's foreign minister said
the explosion was caused by a car bomb, but there was no
immediate claim of responsibility.
   Shortly after the blast, Menem speculated it was the work
of Nazis or "fundamentalist groups," a term that refers to
right-wing military officers.
   ---
   White South Africans voted in huge numbers in a referendum
on ending apartheid and sharing power with the country's
black majority. Exit polling was banned and results were not
expected before today. The heavy turnout was expected to help
President de Klerk, who said he will resign if his policy of
dismantling apartheid is rejected.
   ---
   Three Cabinet members admitted they overdrew their House
Bank accounts many times when they served in Congress. The
disclosures by Cheney, Madigan and Martin dealt a blow to
Bush's hopes of capitalizing politically on the bank-abuse
scandal. Most of the lawmakers named in the flap are
Democrats.
   ---
   Bush rejected a congressional compromise that was
considered the last hope of salvaging $10 billion in loan
guarantees sought by Israel to resettle refugees. Prior to a
meeting with congressional leaders, the president reiterated
his opposition to Israeli settlements in occupied lands,
saying they were "counterproductive to peace."
                                                                                                       

   A Palestinian slashed people with a makeshift sword on a
crowded Tel Aviv street, killing two and wounding 20, before
being shot and killed by a policeman. Israeli authorities
said the attacker carried leaflets from a Muslim
fundamentalist group, but another Muslim group later claimed
responsibility.
   ---
   Former Soviet Congress deputies met at a collective farm
outside Moscow in defiance of Russian authorities and called
for restoration of the Soviet Union. But the event, and a
companion rally outside the Kremlin, appeared to carry little
significance as there were few signs of broad public support
for the Communists.
   ---
   White Medicare patients are more than three times as
likely to have heart-bypass surgery than black patients,
according to a study in the Journal of the American Medical
Association. The findings are significant because of the size
of the disparity and the fact that both groups were in the
same insurance program.
   ---
   Mexico City closed schools, scaled back production at
factories and ordered half of all registered cars off the
road as the Mexican capital faced its worst pollution crisis
ever this week. The measures were taken as the ozone index
reached the highest levels ever recorded in the city, but
winds brought relief yesterday afternoon.
   ---
   Stanford chemists have cleared a major hurdle in the race
to synthesize taxol, a substance that occurs naturally in the
bark of the Pacific yew tree and that has been found to be
very promising in treating cancer. The progress report was
given by a National Cancer Institute scientist at an
Amsterdam conference.
   ---
   Libya faces a U.N. ban on all arms traffic and air links
under a draft Security Council resolution seeking the
surrender of two of its agents accused in the 1989 bombing of
a Pan Am jet over Lockerbie, Scotland. The resolution was
drafted by the U.S., Britain and France, and Russia and China
indicated they won't block it. No vote has been scheduled.