International:
   Opel Designs Car Plant on Japanese Lines
   ---
   Eastern German Facility
   Seen as Test for Europe
   ----
   By Timothy Aeppel
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
That's a tall order, especially in a place that was once
part of Communist East Germany. Workers here still have
trouble grasping such mysteries of the market economy as
profits and competition, much less modern Japanese production
concepts such as just-in-time parts delivery and continuous
quality improvement. But that hasn't discouraged Opel, a unit
of General Motors Corp., or Germany's Volkswagen AG, which
has also set out to build a Japanese-style car plant in
eastern Germany.
   "Some of our competitors think Opel will never be able to
do it with this work force," says Mr. LaSorda, "but we're
going to prove them wrong."
   There's plenty of pressure on him to succeed. The Eisenach
project, which is expected to cost 1 billion marks ($627.7
million), is considered a litmus test for Europe's auto
industry and a crucial investment for GM, Opel's troubled
U.S. parent company. With only seven years before the
European Community lifts barriers against the full blast of
Japanese competition, car makers are rushing to make
themselves more competitive. At the same time, some Japanese
producers are setting up factories in EC member Britain.
   Many Europeans worry that Japanese car makers are about to
do in Europe what they did over the past decade in North
America, where they have pushed their market share above 30%.
Nissan Motor Corp.'s car plant in England is already
considered the most competitive in Europe, and Toyota Motor
Corp. and Honda Motor Co. are to start production at British
factories this year.
   But unlike what happened in the U.S., European auto
executive are already talking about reshaping Europe's car
plants to meet the challenge. The question is how far they
are willing to go.
   Most manufacturers, for instance, want to incorporate
Japanese concepts of worker participation. But implementing a
full-blown Japanese system, often called "lean
manufacturing," influences everything from the way a company
deals with its suppliers to the space set aside for repairing
faulty cars at the end of the assembly line. (Japanese plants
have very little space at the end of the line, as corrections
are expected to be made before the car reaches that point.)
   Some Europeans insist the Japanese will be forced to adapt
to conditions in Europe in a way never required of them in
North America, making a wholesale adoption of lean techniques
unnecessary. "We'll become more Japanese, but they'll become
more European," insists Sergio Pininfarina, chairman of
Pininfarina S.p.A., a leading Italian auto designing firm and
an expert on the European car industry.
   The point at Eisenach, however, is to show that a complete
Japanese system is the only way to go. GM brought in a "core
team" of six experts on Japanese production from all over the
world to engineer and build the plant, snaring talent from
GM's own joint ventures with Japanese companies as well as
directly from Japanese concerns.
   And, as Japanese car companies do in building their
plants, GM gave design authority over key sections to those
who will later operate them. The man who designed the paint
shop, for instance, will manage it after the factory starts
operations.
   Mr. LaSorda is a true believer in lean production. Before
coming to Eisenach, he spent four years at GM's joint venture
with Suzuki Motor Co. in Ontario, Canada, where he rose to
vice president of production. Others learned Japanese methods
at the GM-Toyota joint venture in California known as Nummi,
for New United Motor Manufacturing Inc. Many manufacturers
consider such plants Western models of lean production.
   In Mr. LaSorda's office next to what will eventually be
the plant's cavernous main assembly hall, there are no walls
between the desks, and conversations are peppered with words
like `kaizen', a Japanese concept of incremental improvements
in products through team efforts at identifying and solving
problems.
   Mr. LaSorda freely acknowledges that he is implementing
foreign concepts. But as a Canadian working for the German
subsidiary of the U.S. car maker, he says that isn't a
problem -- it merely reflects the increasing globalization of
the motor industry. "Our intention is to recreate the
complete Japanese system on this site," he says. "But the
industry has no other choice, if it wants to survive."
   For GM, the new plant's 150,000 units a year will
contribute much of the 25% increase in capacity that has been
earmarked for Europe over coming years. More importantly, it
will show that the company can implement Japanese methods on
its own, and serve as a guide for other European producers.
   "Aside from the Japanese in the U.K., Eisenach is the
single most important event in Europe," in the context of
spreading the gospel of Japanese-style production, says
Daniel T. Jones, a professor at the Cardiff Business School
in Wales who specializes in the auto industry. "If Opel can
duplicate Nummi in a discredited location and match West
German quality and productivity, then all the defenses are
gone."
   Mr. Jones says the European industry needs one good
demonstration plant. "Then," he says, "VW and GM can spread
the message throughout Europe."
   Some say this is already happening. Carl Hahn, chairman of
Volkswagen AG, says his company is applying Japanese
production methods in all its new factories, including the
one now under construction in the east German city of
Zwickau, and is looking for ways to adapt elements in
existing plants. "Nobody in the industry can afford to stand
still," he says.