Smooth Operator:
   Small Town Treasurers
   Rue the Day They
   Met Steve Wymer
   ---
   The Big Returns He Offered
   Seemed Almost Too Good
   To Be True, and Were
   ---
   Intriguing Bedtime Reading
   ----
   By Earl C. Gottschalk Jr.
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Mr. Brunsdon, an easygoing accountant, liked Mr. Wymer. It
was such a "positive experience" dealing with the 6-foot-2,
athletic-looking salesman, who kept a rowing machine just a
few steps from his office desk in Irvine, Calif. And he fit
right in with the 5,700 retirees, ski buffs, and urban
escapees in this town nestled in the San Bernardino Mountains
above Los Angeles.
   But after the phone rang the afternoon of Dec. 13, 1991,
Mr. Brunsdon realized he had been had. The call was from the
Securities and Exchange Commission. And the message was this:
The capital-improvement account managed by Mr. Wymer had a
stated balance of $2,481,207 but was really worth $247. There
must be a mistake, Mr. Brunsdon said.
   Mr. Wymer was arrested four days later at his house in
Newport Beach, Calif., and later was indicted by a federal
grand jury on charges of "orchestrating a massive fraud
scheme" that the government says has cost 14 cities and
investment trusts more than $113 million. Mr. Wymer has been
charged with 30 counts of securities fraud, mail fraud, money
laundering and making false statements.
   Prosecutors say Mr. Wymer, 43, put some of the money to
use financing a life style that included several homes, three
pleasure boats and at least nine cars, including a $140,000
Ferrari. Much of the $1.2 billion he managed has been
accounted for; $113 million is still missing. Attorneys for
Mr. Wymer, who himself declines to be interviewed, say that
there were "trading losses," and that Mr. Wymer isn't guilty
of any wrongdoing.
   It's clear he did a very good job sweet-talking officials,
weaving himself into the local fabric, and camouflaging his
personal spending. Then, too, there's the matter of all those
allegedly phony account statements.
   "There may be a lot of Steve Wymers out there" selling
dubious investments to unsophisticated local finance
officials, says Colorado securities commissioner Philip A.
Feigin. "The higher the rates treasurers get, the lower the
tax burden. So they're likely to fall for the first `Music
Man' to come to town."
   Small-town treasurers can be easy marks. Most have
accounting or bookkeeping backgrounds but "aren't
knowledgeable about the increasing number of sophisticated
investment strategies," says Connie Jamieson, San Diego
treasurer and president of the California Municipal
Treasurers Association. They are often parttimers, and they
have so many other things on their minds. "Some hire cops and
firefighters and people to pick up the trash," says Ms.
Jamieson. "And they're also given the responsibility of
investing millions of dollars."
   A growing number of investment firms are catering to the
cash-management and investment needs of municipalities. It
can easily be a case of predator and easy prey.
   "There are a lot of sharks swimming around out there, and
inexperienced people are going to get bit," says Stan
Lindsay, president of the California Municipal Finance
Officers Association.
   The arrest of Mr. Wymer and the collapse of the company he
owned, Institutional Treasury Management, have engendered
bitter legal battling among cities over what remains of the
$1.2 billion. A number of people have had their lives thrown
into disarray. They include a city finance director in Iowa
who is out of a job and whose own pension money is in limbo,
and an Iowa legislator who moonlighted as a marketing agent
for Mr. Wymer and is now the subject of a state ethics
investigation.
   Federal investigators say the Wymer case is an instructive
tale of how small-town treasurers can be snookered by a
clever confidence game. The Wymer scheme, if it was that, was
timed perfectly. Small-town treasuries were hurting because
of lower tax revenues in a recession. They had suffered cuts
in allocations and grants from federal and state governments.
As interest rates plunged on their Treasury securities and
certificates of deposit, they frantically sought ways to keep
up city income.
   Enter Mr. Wymer-low-key and unobtrusive. Few big money
managers had ever heard of him. And he remains something of a
mystery, thanks to a penchant for privacy and for inventing
at least parts of his past.
   Born and raised in Fullerton, Calif., south of Los
Angeles, Mr. Wymer came from a middle-class family. At
Fullerton High School, he ran cross-country, worked on the
school newspaper and was senior-class president. A school
friend, Dan Webster, calls him "the kind of guy you would
want your daughter to go out with."
   In applying for a license to sell securities with the
National Association of Securities Dealers, Mr. Wymer wrote,
correctly, that he graduated from the University of
California at Irvine in 1969 with a degree in mathematics. He
added that he then moved to Boulder, Colo., and was
self-employed. A friend says he was a building contractor
part of the time.
   So far so good. But according to information he provided
to Dun  Bradstreet in March last year, he had been "a senior
engineer" at Rockwell International Corp. in Anaheim, Calif.,
from 1966 to 1975. Rockwell says he worked for it from June
1966 until June 1968, as a "part-time data reduction clerk
while he was a student." He was a "summer-hire mathematician"
in 1968, and worked as a beginning engineer for nine months
after that. He was never a senior engineer, the company says.
   In 1980, Mr. Wymer moved back to Southern California,
where, after a brief stint selling classic cars, he had a
series of jobs at small brokerage firms, according to the
filing for his securities license. In 1986, he started Denman
 Co., and specialized in managing money for small cities. As
president of Denman, which later became Institutional
Treasury Management, he built the firm's assets from $200
million in 1988 to $1.2 billion, federal prosecutors say.
   A few investment pros who met him were surprised at his
apparent success. "He was a sales type by temperament instead
of a fixed-income person," says Michael Stolper, a San Diego
consultant who picks money managers for wealthy clients and
pension funds. "I could never figure out how he could
{consistently} increase returns by two percentage points by
sophisticated trading techniques with Treasurys. It's hard to
be clever in some areas, and trading Treasurys is one of
them."
   City treasurers didn't invest their short-term cash with
Mr. Wymer merely because he was charming and athletic: He
didn't charge a commission on trades, as other brokers do.
His contract called for his firm to get 30% of any net
trading gains; cities would get 70%.
   More important, Mr. Wymer used politicians and former
officeholders to help market his services. In California, he
hired Harold Brewer, for 26 years the finance director for
the city of Riverside. He also enlisted Kirby Warner, the
former assistant city manager and treasurer of Palm Desert.
Neither man has been charged with any crime, and both decline
to talk about their ties to Mr. Wymer.
   A good word from Mr. Brewer helped a lot. "I wouldn't have
done this if Steve Wymer approached me directly -- only
because I had a working relationship with Hal Brewer," says
Ronney C. Wong, director of administrative services for
Beaumont, Calif. "If he is working with Steve Wymer, I
thought things have got to be good."
   And, overall, things were good, Mr. Wong says. "We
received monthly confirmations of various trades. Every time
I asked for a withdrawal, I got my money that same day. And
we were getting returns of 2 or 3 percentage points over the
going C.D. rate. I didn't see how we could lose." But
Beaumont did lose. The $527,048 the city thought its account
with Mr. Wymer was worth turned out to be only $22,439, the
SEC says.
   In Iowa, Mr. Wymer hired the president of the state
senate, Joseph Welsh, as a commissioned salesman. In January
1990, three local governments set up the Iowa Trust, an
investment pool formed to get a higher return than might
otherwise be possible. By the end of 1991, 88 Iowa
municipalities were participating. They hired Mr. Wymer's
firm to manage their money.
   Mr. Welsh, who is now being investigated by a special
ethics panel of the Iowa Senate, has been accused by other
senators of using his position to advance legislation that
allowed the Iowa Trust to be set up, and to block legislation
that would have put controls on the trust's investment
policies. As an Institutional Treasury salesman, Mr. Welsh
was paid $16,000 in 1990; his 1991 earnings haven't been
disclosed.
   Iowa authorities now allege that Mr. Wymer illegally
diverted more than $75 million from Iowa Trust accounts
through transfers of its investments, overcharges and
inaccurate credits.
   Mr. Welsh, who declines to be interviewed, said in
testimony to the Iowa senate ethics committee earlier this
month that he had lived up to the senate's rules and
standards and hadn't done anything wrong. "I'm sorry Steven
Wymer stole money from Iowa Trust," he said. "I am sorry my
family has had to experience my pain and embarrassment."
   Other Iowans also are paying a price for their involvement
with Mr. Wymer. Elaine Gundacker, an Iowa Trust trustee and
city finance director of Marshalltown, one of the first Iowa
cities to invest with Mr. Wymer, has been put on
administrative leave and sued by Dubuque, one of the cities
with money in the fund.
   Mrs. Gundacker, 58, who hasn't been reappointed to another
term as finance director, says she is being made a scapegoat.
"After 30 years in municipal government in Iowa, I've been
abandoned by my government," she says. Mrs. Gundacker says
that she met Mr. Wymer just two or three times and "didn't
know him personally." He was "nice but always very busy" when
she talked to him on the phone about the city's account, she
says.
   In its indictment, the government charges that Mr. Wymer
sent clients phony confirmations of trades and false account
statements. The goal, investigators say, was to make current
clients think they were getting higher returns than they
actually were and to attract new customers. To cover losses
or to meet a withdrawal request, Mr. Wymer shifted funds from
account to account, "robbing Peter to pay Paul," says Los
Angeles Assistant U.S. Attorney James R. Asperger.
   Mr. Asperger says that the allegedly illegal scheme
apparently dates back to 1986, when Mr. Wymer started Denman
 Co. From February 1988 through December 1991, Denman and
successor Institutional Treasury Management prepared at least
one fraudulent transaction confirmation for at least 69 of
the two firms' 105 government and pension-fund clients, the
indictment charges.
   There were some warning signals along the way that
something irregular was going on. Clients never got detailed
print-outs of the 70-30 splits, despite repeated requests,
several say. Michael Williams, who was elected part-time
treasurer of Colton, Calif., says he asked Mr. Wymer to come
up with just one documented example of a trade -- "pick any
one you want," he recalls saying -- to verify that Colton got
its 70%. After three meetings, Mr. Wymer was never able to
produce the example, so Mr. Williams dismissed the firm.
   Although he drove a Mercedes-Benz, Mr. Wymer didn't flaunt
his lavish life style to the city treasurers with whom he
dealt. "He didn't wear gold chains or $4,000 suits," says Mr.
Williams.
   His neighbors on Santiago Drive in Newport Beach, an
affluent city 40 miles south of Los Angeles, say Mr. Wymer
and his second wife, Anne Marie, pretty much kept to
themselves. Their house is surrounded by high shrubs and
protected by a security gate. The government seized the house
and a total of $10 million in Wymer property earlier this
month.
   A year ago, Mr. Wymer purchased three identical red Mazda
Miata convertibles as Christmas bonuses for his three
secretaries. His wife paid for them with a company check,
says Kory Johnson, sales manager of Campbell Mazda in Costa
Mesa, Calif.
   When federal agents entered the Wymer home to search for
evidence last month, they found a copy of a book called "How
to Launder Money" on a bedroom nightstand. One of Mr. Wymer's
attorneys, Paul N. Murphy, says the book is Anne Marie's, and
"there is no indication that Mr. Wymer either read or
subscribed to {advice in} the book." Mr. Murphy says he
wouldn't "presume to comment on Mrs. Wymer's bedtime
reading."
   ---
   Wall Street Journal staff reporter Amy Stevens contributed
to this article.