REVIEW  OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   Surtax Practice
The unusual thing is that the companies to be hit with the
tax don't have contracts with the UMW. They're either
nonunion or they bargain with other branches of organized
labor. The mining outfits that did negotiate with the Mine
Workers, comprising the Bituminous Coal Operators'
Association, say their business has shrunk so much that they
can't handle the benefits burden on their own. The venerable
BCOA, which once set contract terms for one of America's
basic industries, now has less than a third of the market.
Basically, it bargained itself into a financial corner.
   Some of the biggest BCOA companies have been bought out in
recent years; more often, BCOA assets have been peddled to
the so-called non-signatory competition. The idea that the
BCOA can't honor its benefits pacts is ludicrous, say the
competitors. Back and forth the charges go and the faxes fly,
as lobbyists battle over who deserted which workers.
Meanwhile, medical costs keep rising and the employment base
keeps shrinking.
   The approximately 120,000 Mine Workers beneficiaries (more
than a quarter of them in West Virginia) nearly equal active
employment totals in the domestic industry. Mr. Rockefeller
would levy a 75-cents-an-hour tax on non-BCOA producers,
including an equivalent duty on imports. (For Western U.S.
companies, the rate would fall to 15 cents, under a Finance
Committee compromise.) The tax, which could be increased as
needed (and almost certainly would be), means about a $1 per
ton swing in price in the fiercely fought-over spot market,
according to Joe Craft, president of Oklahoma's Mapco Coal, a
non-BCOA operator. Other estimates are lower, but clearly the
cost is appreciable and its likely effect on non-BCOA wages
and benefits understandable.
   One needn't take sides in a commercial squabble to
recognize, as Labor Secretary Lynn Martin did last week, that
the establishment of another entitlement administered by the
federal government isn't the way to go. What happens today in
mining may be repeated tomorrow in steel, autos and who knows
what. A surtax is just too easy.
   Retirees and survivors who fear being cheated out of
benefits they were promised are due some relief, if ways can
be found to get into the pockets of those who made the
promises -- many of them now busted or sold out. But taking
it out of the hides of other coal miners' daughters hardly
sounds the right note.
   Because of federal intervention in the industry going back
to President Truman, officials have been plugging away at a
response to this funding problem for years. Now a Senator
trying to serve home-state interests has linked it with tax
revision. Mr. Rockefeller has given President Bush another
reason for vetoing that dirty-as-coal tax bill.
   (See related letter: "Letters to the Editor: A Move to
Reclaim Abandoned Miners" -- WSJ March 20, 1992)
   920306-0109