Who's News:
   Bollenbach
   To Quit Trump
   For Marriott
   ----
   By Mitchell Pacelle
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Mr. Bollenbach, 49 years old, was hired as Mr. Trump's
first chief financial officer in August 1990 at the behest of
Mr. Trump's lenders. Mr. Bollenbach helped to hammer out
agreements that call for Mr. Trump to surrender equity in his
casino, real estate, and airline holdings in exchange for new
terms on his junk-bond debt and a release from $650 million
in personally guaranteed bank debt.
   "He did a fantastic job," said Mr. Trump. "His job is
essentially finished."
   At Marriott, Mr. Bollenbach will serve as chief financial
officer and executive vice president. The Washington-based
hotel and food-service company has put about $1.5 billion of
assets on the block in an attempt to prune its year-end debt
of roughly $3.2 billion.
   Mr. Bollenbach's move is the latest of a string of a
half-dozen or so departures of Mr. Trump's top executives
over the past year, leaving a number of vacant offices in his
Trump Tower headquarters.
   "I cut the staff down a little bit from the standpoint of
costs," Mr. Trump acknowledged, but he insisted, "The company
is essentially the same size." He said he intended to replace
Mr. Bollenbach. "We've gotten so big, we really need it," he
said.
   "I think it's safe to say that without {Mr. Bollenbach},
the deal wouldn't have gotten done," said one party to the
debt negotiations. "He was the credibility in the process.
And I think he cut Donald a good deal."
   Mr. Bollenbach said he expected to remain at Trump
Organization until the deal is finalized in early March.
   The Marriott position was created by the resignation of
F.W. Cash as president of the Marriott Service Group and
executive vice president of its parent company, a move that
took analysts by surprise. William Shaw, Marriott's current
executive vice president and chief financial officer, will
take over as president of the Service Group.
   Mr. Bollenbach, who was a senior vice president and
treasurer at Marriott between 1982 and 1986, is expected to
play a central role in the asset sales.
   "With the environment so difficult for selling hotel and
real estate assets, Stephen Bollenbach will help with that
effort" because of his experience with Trump, said Joseph
Doyle, who follows the company for Smith Barney, Harris Upham
 Co. "Rough sailing makes for good sailors," he said.