Bailey Corp. Says
   It Had a Profit
   In Second Quarter
   ----
   By Joseph Pereira
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Sales are expected to total $11.3 million, up from $5.5
million a year ago.
   These results mark a second profitable quarter in a row
following a string of losses for the Seabrook, N.H., concern.
The turnaround in part reflects a decision in 1987 to shift
from the overcrowded extruded rubber parts market into
injection molded plastic parts for the automotive industry,
Mr. Heilman said.
   Before Bailey sold its rubber division in 1988, it
received about 70% of its sales from its rubber business.
"Now, our business is 100% plastic," said Mr. Heilman. Part
of the $18 million it received for its rubber enterprise was
used to pay down debt and part of the money went toward an
aggressive marketing campaign for its plastic parts.
   As a result, the company is now selling twice as many
parts to U.S. auto makers as it did in fiscal 1991, despite
an overall slowdown in auto production.
   Bailey makes bumper covers, side moldings, ferrings, grill
opening panel retainers, and stone deflectors, among other
things, for cars, vans and small trucks.
   Because the automotive industry is a cyclical business
with new models unveiled mostly in midyear, the fiscal third
quarter should reflect an uptick in business as Bailey
prepares to ship parts for model introductions, Heilman said.
   Because of greater short-term borrowings to increase
production, interest expense for the past six months is
running 26% higher than in the comparable period a year ago.
Moreover, the company is looking to pick up additional
business. As a result, the company is seeking alternative
funding sources. "Funding is the subject of an ongoing
dialogue with our lenders as to what kind of borrowing
balances we'll have to carry," Mr. Heilman said.
   As previously reported, Bailey awaits word from the
Environmental Protection Agency on a waste-site clean-up bill
in connection with a former owner's business in
Massachusetts. But the company, which has set aside
approximately $800,000 in reserves, said the EPA ruling isn't
expected to affect earnings.
   For the six months Bailey expects to report net income of
$81,000, or two cents a share, against a loss of $482,000, or
13 cents a share, in the year-ago period. Sales are estimated
to be $24.8 million compared with $12.8 million.