International:
   Russia, Ukraine Reach Tentative Pact
   On Fleet, but Commonwealth Is Shaky
   ----
   By Adi Ignatius
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
"We are doomed to come to terms," the chief Russian
representative, deputy premier Sergei Shakhrai, said after
the lengthy negotiations.
   But the agreement includes precious few details,
suggesting that its aim was mainly to defuse temporarily an
issue so emotionally laden that it threatens by itself to
tear apart the fragile commonwealth.
   The question of who controls the Black Sea fleet has
brought into the open the large reservoir of mutual suspicion
and animosity between Russia and Ukraine. In recent days,
Russian President Boris Yeltsin and Ukrainian President
Leonid Kravchuk have engaged in potentially explosive verbal
brinksmanship over the issue.
   Commonwealth leaders last month agreed in Minsk to place
the former Soviet military-strategic forces under joint
command. But when he returned to Kiev, Mr. Kravchuk, an
ardent Ukrainian nationalist who is wary of Russian designs,
began arguing that the fleet, which is based in the
warm-water Crimean port of Sevastopol, on Ukrainian
territory, does not count as a "strategic force." Therefore,
he announced that Ukraine would assume control over the fleet
this year.
   When Mr. Kravchuk refused to back down, his Russian
counterpart upped the ante, declaring that the fleet belongs
neither to Ukraine nor the commonwealth, but is actually
Russia's alone.
   At that stage, aides to the two outspoken chief executives
agreed to meet in Kiev to try to defuse the issue. The result
is the tentative agreement Saturday to continue talks aimed
at dividing up the prestigious fleet, predecessors of which
fought in Napoleonic Wars, World War II and many of the other
major European naval conflicts of the past 200 years.
   But even if the fleet crisis can be resolved, Russia and
Ukraine remain divided on a number of other key concerns. The
scope of their disagreements suggest that it may be
impossible to preserve the commonwealth, which Messrs.
Yeltsin and Kravchuk, together with the leader of Belarus,
Stanislav Shushkevich, first formulated at a meeting in early
December.
   "I don't see any way that the commonwealth can survive,"
says a European diplomat in Moscow, echoing a view held by
many here.
   What helped unite Messrs. Yeltsin and Kravchuk in the
first place was a mutual dislike of the old, centralized
Soviet system and particularly of Mikhail Gorbachev, the
former Soviet president. But when commonwealth leaders pushed
aside Mr. Gorbachev, splits between Mr. Yeltsin and Mr.
Kravchuk began to emerge.
   Russia and Ukraine already have begun to pursue separate
economic paths, pouring cold water on those who have argued
that economic interdependence would ultimately keep the
commonwealth together.
   During the founding of the commonwealth, member nations
agreed that the new union would adopt the ruble as a common
currency. Russian officials later boasted that one of the
major successes of the founding meeting was dissuading
Ukraine from proceeding with plans to issue its own currency.
   Ukraine, however, soon announced that it was sticking to
its guns and would issue its currency, the hrivnya, probably
beginning this spring. In the meantime, because Russia has
failed to deliver billions of rubles promised to Ukraine for
paying salaries, Kiev on Friday began issuing special coupons
that serve essentially as a temporary, parallel currency with
the ruble.
   "We cannot count on Russia any longer to help us," says
Vitold Fokin, Ukraine's prime minister, who now commonly
refers to the ruble as "a dead currency."
   In the newest dispute, the two nations have become prime
movers in a trade war that threatens to engulf the
commonwealth. Several republics, including Ukraine, have
banned the export of goods to Russia, fearing that higher
prices there would lead traders to sell an inordinate amount
of local products across the border, exacerbating shortages
at home. Over the weekend, Mr. Yeltsin's government issued a
retaliatory protectionist measure.
   There also remain critical unresolved military issues,
besides the Black Sea fleet. Ukraine is one of three former
Soviet republics that have said they want to form their own
military, independent of the joint commonwealth force. (The
others are Azerbaijian and Moldova.) In recent weeks,
Ukrainian officials have pressured troops of all
nationalities who serve on Ukrainian soil to take an oath of
allegiance to Kiev. Russian officials contend that Ukraine is
sweetening the pot by offering economic benefits to those who
do so.
   Underlying all of these disputes is the troubling question
of nuclear weapons. Commonwealth leaders have agreed that, in
the future, only Russia would control nuclear weapons.
Ukraine, the second-largest nuclear power among the former
Soviet republics, has pledged to transport its strategic
weapons for dismantling in Russia. But until that process can
be completed, those weapons will continue to be potential
bargaining chip for Ukraine and will leave the world nervous
about the remote, but catastrophic, scenario of nuclear
conflict.