Units of Amoco
   And Dow Chemical
   Form Joint Venture
   ----
   By Suzanne McGee
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
"We have created a company which is already a major player
in our industry, and with every prospect of growing still
further before we sell the shares to the . . . public," said
Don Stacy, chairman and president of Amoco Canada Petroleum.
   Amoco Canada put up properties in the province of Alberta
which match those owned by Dow Chemical Canada Inc.'s Maligne
Resources Ltd. unit to form Crestar, Amoco Canada officials
said. Crestar will have average production of 20,000 barrels
of oil and natural gas liquids daily and over 150 million
cubic feet of gas a day.
   Coming from Amoco Canada, where he was senior vice
president, production, Murray Todd is president and chief
executive of Crestar. He said he expects the new company to
report cash flow of 65 million Canadian dollars (US$54.9
million) in the ten months ending Dec. 31, 1992, an estimate
he says is based on oil prices remaining at about $20 a
barrel. He declined to estimate earnings or the company's
asset value, pending a recapitalization of Crestar, which is
based in Calgary, Alberta.
   A top priority for Crestar's management will be improving
production at most of the Alberta properties it operates. Mr.
Todd said he has earmarked Crestar's 1992 capital spending
budget of C$40 million for development drilling at key
locations, with about 66 wells planned by the end of the
year. Once production has been increased, he says, Crestar
will move on to more exploratory ventures.
   Currently, Crestar has proven reserves of 45 million
barrels of oil and liquids and 573 billion cubic feet of
natural gas.
   The creation and future public sale of Crestar will help
Amoco Canada meet its commitments to Canada's foreign
investment regulators to sell up to 20% of its stock to the
public by 1998, a condition for approval of its 1988
acquisition of troubled Canadian oil giant Dome Petroleum
Ltd.
   Mr. Todd said none of Amoco's corporate debt will be
transferred along with the oil and gas properties, and that
following the recapitalization of Crestar, debt will
represent less than 35% of the company's total capital.
   The formation of Crestar leaves Amoco Canada with
extensive oil and gas production operations throughout
western Canada. By releasing its Maligne Resources unit to
form Crestar, Dow Canada quits the oil and gas industry to
focus on its key chemicals business. Parent companies Amoco
Corp. and Dow Chemical are based, respectively, in Chicago
and Midland, Mich.