Politics  Policy -- Campaign '92:
   South Holds Rough Terrain for Buchanan;
   Clinton Heads Home, Head Bowed a Bit
   ---
   Republican Challenger Faces
   Daunting Task in Region
   Of Loyal Bush Support
   ----
   By John Harwood
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
It's easy to see why the South -- the "firewall" that
safeguarded George Bush's 1988 primary campaign -- represents
such daunting terrain for the challenger. Mr. Buchanan is a
first-time candidate from Washington, D.C., in a region that
prizes familiarity and loyalty; a street-fighter in a
Republican political world of country club graciousness; a
Catholic in the Protestant Bible Belt. The anger over
economic hard times that fueled his New Hampshire campaign is
more muted here. And while Mr. Buchanan vows to confront the
GOP "establishment," Mr. Bush's solid support from party
elites still counts for something in the South, where
Republican primary electorates remain relatively small.
   Mr. Buchanan got a glimpse of the challenge ahead last
week when he followed the president to a gathering of
Southern GOP officials in Charleston, S.C. While Mr. Bush
received a rousing reception inside, Mr. Buchanan sought to
"crash the party" with a news conference a block away, where
he protested his exclusion from the session and claimed the
mantle of Reagan conservatism. But his presence was so
overshadowed by the presidential visit that a local TV
station afterward cut Mr. Buchanan off in mid-interview to
cover Mr. Bush shaking hands with dignitaries on the airport
tarmac and striding up the steps of Air Force One.
   "Buchanan speaks my language, but I'm supporting the
president," says Blanche Hodul, a 64-year-old party activist
and longtime Jesse Helms supporter from Fayetteville, N.C.,
who attended the meeting in Charleston. "I'm just a loyal
person."
   After years of struggling to build their party in the once
solidly Democratic South, explains University of South
Carolina political scientist Earl Black, "many of those
people feel their best shot at influence is sticking with an
incumbent."
   To be sure, Mr. Bush's support is soft, and Mr. Buchanan's
forces count on voters' pessimism and anti-Washington
sentiment to upset conventional calculations. "The mood of
the country's real strange right now," says GOP worker Fran
Atkinson, 59, who hosts a call-in show on the country music
radio station she owns in Mountain City, Tenn.; she leans
toward the president but hasn't firmly decided.
   So the telegenic challenger fires away at Mr. Bush across
the Old Confederacy. While continuing his assault on the
president for breaking his no-tax pledge, Mr. Buchanan is
broadening his attacks here to charge that the president
supported "reverse discrimination" by signing last year's
civil rights bill, is failing to protect U.S. jobs from
foreign competition and is pursuing a "globalist" foreign
policy that Mr. Buchanan insists will erode American
sovereignty.
   His goal is to sustain his New Hampshire momentum in
Georgia's March 3 primary and the South Carolina contest four
days later, and then score a breakthrough victory in one of
his Super Tuesday target states: Mississippi, Louisiana or
Oklahoma. "It may be that you punch another hole in the
{Bush} dirigible and the whole thing comes down," Mr.
Buchanan says. "That's the hope."
   The political landscape in Georgia provides some glimmers
of a chance. Former Ku Klux Klan grand wizard David Duke's
exclusion from the Republican ballot makes it a clean
Buchanan-Bush matchup, and the challenger hopes to exploit a
long-simmering feud between established GOP forces and a
rebellious faction headed by supporters of the Rev. Pat
Robertson's 1988 primary campaign. As elsewhere in the South,
Georgia has an "open" primary that permits disaffected
Democrats to cast Republican ballots. And the economic pain
here is real enough: The 55,000 jobs Georgia lost in the
recession last year represented 1.2% of its entire work
force, somewhat more than in the nation as a whole.
   Yet improving on Mr. Buchanan's 37% New Hampshire showing
won't be easy. After spending some $2 million and two months
there, the former "Crossfire" host has budgeted just $500,000
and the equivalent of three full campaign days in Georgia, a
state more than five times as populous. Various GOP analysts
say Mr. Bush is likely to win by a margin well in excess of
two-to-one.
   And the going could get tougher after that. South Carolina
-- where popular Gov. Carroll Campbell has deployed his
highly regarded organization on the president's behalf -- has
barely been touched by the recession. Even the state's
lagging textile sector has bounced back in recent months.
When Mr. Buchanan spoke at an Easley, S.C., textile plant
last week, workers listened passively as he described the
industry's woes in New Hampshire; their own plant hums along
on a six-day work week.
   Overall, the South's economy lost substantially fewer jobs
in 1991 than the national average, says Georgia State
University economist Donald Ratajczak. One cushion came from
spending by returning veterans of Operation Desert Storm -- a
conflict Mr. Buchanan opposed, as the Bush campaign plans to
point out across this pro-military region.
   Republican National Committee member Haley Barbour of
Mississippi predicts Mr. Buchanan won't win a single Southern
congressional district, much less a state. Nonetheless, Mr.
Buchanan's Super Tuesday campaign -- and Mr. Bush's response
to it -- could play a critical role in determining Republican
prospects this fall. Already, Bush campaign advisers have
indicated new rules of engagement -- for example, urging
reporters to examine such questions as why Mr. Buchanan
hasn't released financial-disclosure forms and tax returns.
In addition, "we have put Pat on notice that if he does raise
negative attacks on the president, they will not go
unanswered as they did in New Hampshire," says campaign
strategist Charles Black.
   Mr. Buchanan, for his part, takes satisfaction from the
president's gestures in his direction. Sipping a beer at the
end of another long campaign day, he chuckles over the forced
resignation of National Endowment for the Arts Chairman John
Frohnmayer -- one day after he blasted Mr. Bush for
permitting the NEA to finance "filthy and blasphemous art."
In Charleston, the president even uttered the challenger's
"America First" slogan while discussing his support for
family values.
   "We've been running them ragged," Mr. Buchanan says.
Acknowledging the widespread skepticism among party
operatives about his chances, he adds, "Maybe you look down
and say after Super Tuesday, `Maybe they're right.' But I'll
tell you something: They know that we've got the message. . .
. And they know if we had the resources we could smoke 'em."
   (See related story: "Arkansas Governor Arrives Loaded With
Baggage From New Hampshire" -- WSJ Feb. 24, 1992)