Heard on the Street:
   Hospital Corp. Set to Cash In on Buy-Out
   ----
   By Randall Smith and Glenn Ruffenach
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
The price could well rise after the offering, analysts
agreed. But they question whether people who invest today
will do nearly as well as the buy-out investors.
   "You might argue that the easy money has been made," says
Salomon Brothers' health-care analyst Margo Vignola. Though
the company has scored some gains by shifting toward the
faster-growing area of outpatient care, "it's coming public
at a time when the dynamics of the industry aren't very
encouraging."
   The average proposed price is more than eight times that
paid by a group of insiders -- led by Chairman Thomas F.
Frist Jr. -- who put up $300 million in equity. That group
includes two blue-chip Wall Street firms, Goldman Sachs and
J.P. Morgan, as well as the Rockefeller family and Texas
investor Richard Rainwater.
   For Mr. Rainwater, the Hospital Corp. deal is the biggest
home-run investment since he parted company in 1986 with the
Bass Brothers, whom he had served as chief investment
strategist. Since then, he has tripled his own investment
portfolio, from about $120 million to $360 million. A group
he leads paid $29.5 million for Hospital Corp. stock that
would be worth nearly $242 million at the midpoint of the
proposed price range.
   Today, prospective new investors are facing the same
questions that haunted the buy-out group: uncertainties about
the profit prospects of health care, and to a lesser degree,
the company's debt.
   Analysts say the Hospital Corp. buy-out succeeded because
Mr. Frist stopped spending money for expansion to such
farflung locales as Brazil, Singapore and Australia, and got
serious about selling assets and cutting costs. The icing on
the cake was lower interest rates and a soaring stock market.
   "HCA's focus for years was on expansion, building big size
-- and they didn't raise rates when they could have," says
Salomon's Ms. Vignola. As a result, she says, "when they went
private, there was a lot of fat that could be cut."
   By selling off many rural and small suburban hospitals,
the company was able to "really focus on expenses in a way
they hadn't done before," says junk-bond analyst Meredith
Adler of First Boston Corp. Also helpful, says Edward Mally,
Salomon's director of high-yield research, was the ample
price Hospital Corp. received from selling a 50% stake in a
health maintenance organization for $370 million.
   But some analysts warn that the profit growth generated by
cost-cutting and deleveraging isn't sustainable. And new
uncertainties loom, some disclosed for the first time in a
Hospital Corp. stock-sale filing dated Jan. 3.
   For example, the filing says the Internal Revenue Service
is challenging Hospital Corp. for $1.1 billion in back taxes
and interest. The IRS is disputing Hospital Corp.'s
accounting for income, acquisitions, insurance and asset
sales. While analysts aren't too worried about the outcome of
the case, the number is large enough to frighten some
investors.
   Hospital Corp. also has an Achilles' heel of sorts in its
psychiatric hospital business, which contributes 12% of
Hospital Corp.'s cash flow. The length of average stays in
psychiatric hospitals is declining, and Hospital Corp. tried
unsuccessfully to sell the business after the buy-out.
   Texas regulators are investigating a competing chain of
psychiatric hospitals for alleged improper recruiting of
patients. And on Nov. 22, the state's attorney general said
the probe had expanded to include hospitals operated by other
companies, including Hospital Corp. In an effort to assuage
investor concerns, the filing says "the company believes that
the Attorney General is not currently contemplating the
institution of litigation against the company and its Texas
psychiatric subsidiaries."
   Some analysts believe the Hospital Corp. offering will go
well because concerns about the health-care business have
eased.
   George Pillari, president of Health Care Investment
Analysts Inc. in Baltimore, says that in the late 1980s,
investors were "very apprehensive about anything to do with
hospitals." Now, he says, they "recognize that there are some
companies out there, like Hospital Corp., which have selected
a strong group of hospitals, have managed them carefully, and
are on a firm footing."
   Investors may be readier to swallow Hospital Corp. stock
after a recent successful offering by HealthTrust Inc., a
group of 104 hospitals that Hospital Corp. sold in 1987.
HealthTrust shares came public Dec. 20 at 14, just before the
stock market took off. They got as high as 22 1/4, and late
yesterday were trading at 20 7/8, off 3/4.
   Analysts expect Hospital Corp. to trade somewhere between
12 and 15 times expected 1992 earnings -- about where other
hospital companies trade, but a discount to the market as a
whole. The reason for the discount: slow-growth prospects for
health care.
   Because the underwriters haven't begun briefing analysts
and money managers, most analysts don't have Hospital Corp.
earnings estimates. One who made a rough estimate expects
Hospital Corp. net income to grow to $1.70 a share in 1992
from $1.45 in 1991 -- implying a stock price of roughly $20
to $25 a share.
   Some analysts believe Hospital Corp. stock is likely to
trade upward from its offering price because Goldman and J.P.
Morgan are two of the three lead underwriters; both have
equity stakes, giving them reason to make doubly sure the
offering goes well. The other lead underwriter is Merrill
Lynch.
   The stock-sale proceeds will be used to repay subordinated
debt and bank debt; no current stockholders are selling
shares in this offering. Hospital Corp. will have 147.5
million shares outstanding after the sale, not counting
options on 33.7 million shares held mainly by employees.
   Even after the offering, Hospital Corp. will have $3.03
billion of debt, a steep 80% of total capital. But Wall
Street's attitudes have changed, at least for now. "The
hospital business lends itself well to leverage," says Todd
Richter of Dean Witter Reynolds. "It's a stable, predictable
business that's not greatly affected by economic variables."
   ---
                       How HCA Has Done
                                                                                                       

                                        NINE-MONTH RESULTS*
                                         1991         1990
                                                                                                       

 Revenue (billions)                     $3.75        $3.47
 Interest expense (millions)           $367.5       $438.9
 Net Income                             $96.8        $67.1
 Per-share net**                        $0.97         N.A.
                                                                                                       

   *Results for nine months ended Sept. 30
   **Fully diluted, pro forma, as if pending stock offering
had occurred Jan. 1, 1990.

   Source: Stock offering prospectus.