PepsiCo Buys Stake in Mobile-Cart Firm
   In Restaurant and Supermarket Strategy
   ----
   By Laurie M. Grossman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Carts are expected to account for a growing share of
restaurant expansion in the U.S., as retail sites become
saturated and chains seek out new areas where consumer
traffic is high. Ron Paul, president of Technomic Inc. in
Chicago, a restaurant consultant, expects at least two-thirds
of restaurant expansion to be in small units, such as carts
and stores with two drive-throughs, in the next five years.
   "It's a return to the pushcart mentality of capturing the
people where they are," Mr. Paul said. "Whoever has the most
locations has a better chance of getting business."
   Indeed, PepsiCo said yesterday that it plans to set up
more than 10,000 carts in the U.S. in the next decade, and
more than 100,000 abroad. PepsiCo now has more than 500 carts
domestically.
   A small, mobile restaurant is less expensive to operate
than a fixed outlet. Kenneth Stevens, PepsiCo's senior vice
president of strategic planning, said mobile units cost 5% to
10% less than a traditional restaurant, but are 45% to 95% as
profitable. According to Mr. Paul, the units are also less
risky than traditional stores, because they can be installed
or removed immediately, depending on traffic.
   PepsiCo is likely to put all three of its restaurant
concepts -- Taco Bell, Pizza Hut and Kentucky Fried Chicken
-- on carts. The units would also offer the company's soft
drinks and Frito-Lay snack foods. Pepsi would thus use the
carts to finagle more precious display space from
supermarkets.
   Supermarkets, in turn, are expected to embrace the idea,
placing fast-food carts in their deli sections or outside the
store. Fast-food sales usually post higher profit margins
than grocery sales.
   Pepsi is already testing Pizza Hut and Taco Bell carts in
Arizona supermarkets. In January, KFC opened a mobile unit in
a General Motors Corp. plant and plans to move into more
factories, train stations, office buildings, sports stadiums
and amusement parks. Pepsi is also negotiating with Wal-Mart
Stores Inc. to put carts in the mass-merchandise chain.
   The agreement with Carts of Colorado will prevent Pepsi's
rivals from dealing with its new partner, which has stayed in
the technological forefront of the cart business; among other
things, it uses computers to link mobile units to a central
office and keep better track of supplies. PepsiCo's Mr.
Stevens said Carts of Colorado "won't be selling" any longer
to major fast-food and soft-drink rivals, including Burger
King and Coca Cola Co., which have already purchased carts
from the company.
   Carts of Colorado posted about $10 million in sales last
year, the company said. The company estimates that food-cart
sales make up a $2 billion market in the U.S. PepsiCo already
accounts for about 20% of the cart company's business.