Some Holders
   In Chrysler Back
   Lutz for Chief
   ---
   Wellington, Loomis Urge
   Board to Appoint Him
   As Iacocca's Successor
   ----
   By Bradley A. Stertz
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
"At this point in time the company needs a product person
in charge and that's Bob Lutz," says John Neff, portfolio
manager of Wellington's Windsor Fund. "The choice of letting
this issue linger doesn't do justice to momentum and morale
inside the company. And to consider an outsider seems
stupid."
   Mr. Iacocca has said that Chrysler is considering both
inside and outside candidates to succeed him. One of the
outsiders is believed to be former vice chairman and heir
apparent Gerald W. Greenwald, now at Dillon Read  Co. More
than a year ago Chrysler offered the job to entrepreneur
Roger Penske, but he declined when he learned that Mr.
Iacocca wanted to stay on the job a while longer.
   The strong comments from Mr. Neff mark the first time
Chrysler's major institutional investors have openly thrown
their support behind a particular candidate. It isn't clear
what Los Angeles investor Kirk Kerkorian, Chrysler's largest
holder with a 9.8% stake, thinks about the issue. However,
it's understood he frequently speaks with Mr. Iacocca and
other major investors.
   Mr. Neff said that Wellington, which holds 7% of
Chrysler's common stock, has "communicated" its opinions
privately to individual Chrysler board members.
   Loomis Sayles, which owns about 3.1% of Chrysler's shares
and about $250 million of its bonds, hasn't yet sent a
message to Chrysler directors. But Loomis Sayles Vice
President Ted Shasta agrees that Mr. Lutz, aged 60, should
get the top job.
   "This company is beyond financial engineering or
gimmickry," he said. "There are no more rabbits to pull out
of a hat. The only thing that will save this company is
product and the revenues product brings in. Lutz is clearly
the man to see that through."
   The succession issue became even muddier last week, when
Vice Chairman R.S. Miller Jr. announced he will leave
Chrysler for a job on Wall Street at the end of this month.
Mr. Miller, a 50-year-old financial expert, had been a
leading candidate to become chairman. But late last year his
standing in the company weakened after he sent a memo to
board members that criticized Mr. Iacocca.
   Yesterday, Chrysler replaced Mr. Miller on the board with
executive vice president and chief financial officer Jerome
B. York. Mr. York, 53, is now seen as the leading alternative
to Mr. Lutz from inside Chrysler.
   How the succession drama will turn out is uncertain. Few
clues, other than Mr. York's appointment to the board, came
out of yesterday's board meeting. Some Chrysler officials had
expected the board to take some action on succession because
yesterday was the last regularly scheduled session before
Chrysler's May 14 annual meeting.
   Mr. Lutz and Mr. Iacocca have been at odds in the past,
and questions remain on how Mr. Lutz would manage Chrysler's
tricky financial condition.
   Mr. Greenwald, 56, is strongest with finances. He left
Chrysler in 1990 to lead the ultimately unsuccessful
union-led buy-out bid for UAL Corp. He's also considered
closer to Mr. Iacocca than Mr. Lutz. But his defection caused
some Chrysler insiders to question his loyalty, and even
before he left some at the company questioned whether he had
a sound vision for Chrysler's future.
   Mr. York has come far in the past two years. But some
Chrysler officials say he's hurt by his inexperience with
Chrysler's board.
   "Most of the major investors didn't buy into Chrysler to
get Lee Iacocca, Gerry Greenwald or Roger Penske," says
Joseph Phillippi, an automotive analyst with Shearson Lehman
Brothers Inc. "They bought the stock because they liked the
product and Lutz is the one they view as responsible for
that."
   Other, smaller, institutional investors in Chrysler say
they too favor Mr. Lutz as the next chairman. But they say
they haven't decided how to state their views to the company.