Ruling May Damp
   Canadian Support
   For Trade Accord
   ----
   By John Urquhart
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The lumber decision comes in the same week as a U.S.
Customs Service ruling that Honda Motor Co.'s
Canadian-assembled cars don't qualify for duty-free treatment
under the three-year-old trade pact between the two
countries.
   The Honda and softwood lumber cases are just the latest in
a series of U.S. trade actions against Canada, said Maude
Barlow, chairwoman of the Council of Canadians, a group that
is lobbying for cancellation of the trade pact. "Canadians
are very upset with the trade agreement with the U.S.," she
said.
   Gallup Canada said its latest poll showed 54% of Canadians
were opposed to the trade agreement with the U.S. Only 32%
favored it, with the remainder undecided.
   The U.S.-Canada pact calls for most trade barriers to be
gradually eliminated by 1998 to boost two-way trade, which
last year totaled 168 billion U.S. dollars, the largest
amount of trade between any pair of nations.
   A senior Canadian government official said the U.S. and
Canada were going through a "difficult period" in their trade
relations because of various disputes. But he said Canada is
better off with the U.S.-Canada trade pact because it
provides mechanisms for settling differences.
   If the lumber ruling goes against Canada, he said, the
Canadian government will challenge the decision under the
trade pact's dispute settlement provisions. Such a challenge
involves formation of a U.S.-Canada panel, with binding
powers, to review the decision.
   Gordon Ritchie, a trade consultant who was deputy chief
negotiator of the trade pact, said that from Canada's
perspective, "the track record of the panels is very, very
good." But he said Canada has other broader concerns about
the trade pact. "Canadians restructured their economy on the
basis of a different and a new kind of relationship with the
U.S. That's why there is so much concern right now that the
Americans seem to be playing hardball and even foul ball on a
lot of this stuff."
   Jean Chretien, leader of the opposition Liberal Party,
urged the U.S. and Canada to renegotiate the trade agreement
to deal with such issues as the definition of subsidies.
"Even the agreement's strongest supporters won't argue that
it is perfect," he said.
   The current disputes involve large volumes of trade.
Canada exports to the U.S. annually more than 12 billion
board feet of lumber, valued at about US$2.6 billion. The
imports from Canada represent about 28% of the U.S. softwood
lumber market.
   "There is no basis for the countervailing duty
investigation of softwood lumber being carried out by the
U.S.," said Canadian Trade Minister Michael Wilson. "The
Canadian industry isn't subsidized and the U.S. industry
isn't injured." If today's preliminary ruling goes against
Canada, a final determination of subsidy will be made by May
19.
   The Coalition for Fair Lumber Imports, which has been
lobbying for special levies on Canadian lumber imports, said
subsidized Canadian lumber poses "a serious threat" to 15,000
U.S. lumber jobs.