Business Bulletin:
   A Special Background Report
   On Trends in Industry
   And Finance
   ----
   By Pamela Sebastian
Passbook interest hovers at 3.67%, the lowest in 30 years
and only a hair away from bank money market accounts' 3.68%,
says Bank Rate Monitor. "That's a dramatic number," says
Publisher Robert Heady. But he and others note there hasn't
been an exodus from passbooks because there are few good
options at the moment. Passbooks gain assets so far in 1992,
although not as much as CD rollovers and money market inflow,
says First Boston's Thomas Hanley.
   Citibank's passbook pays 3%, but those accounts rose 1% in
1991. Many people want pure liquidity, no fees or minimums.
Others are simply waiting for higher CD rates.
                                                                                                       

   W.E., PHONE HOME. Aubuchon Hardware will add telephones
after 60 years.
   W.E. Aubuchon Co., a 134-store chain in New England, ends
an idiosyncrasy forbidding phones in its stores, but rings in
a new oddity: Managers and assistant managers will strap on
holsters for portable phones. William E. Aubuchon III, head
of marketing, explains: "We always felt the person in the
store is more important than the people who are calling the
store." Technology provides a solution: a recording plus the
option to buzz (literally) a hip phone.
   Founder William Aubuchon tried phones after starting up in
1908, but decided they "worked more against you than for
you," says his grandson. In recent years, the company added
phones to transmit data on inventory, payroll, shipping and
such, but never allowed incoming customer calls. So why
change? Now it can adapt without hurting service, says Mr.
Aubuchon III. He cites other reasons, too, like a reluctance
of contractors to use a phone-less vendor.
                                                                                                       

   MAID SERVICES lose ground to new competitors and
clean-it-yourselfers.
   The rite of spring cleaning thrives, thanks to Americans
"thinking spring and equating that with cleaning," says Mark
Kushinsky, of Maid Pro in Boston. The bad news, say the
services, is that business falls 10% to 30% as more housework
is done by homeowners. B  Bee's Maintenance in Philadelphia
figures 10% of its clients now clean on their own. Laid-off
husbands also take on more chores, says Chicago's Mighty
Maids/Mighty Men.
   Meanwhile, the dustup over rates grows fierce. Krishna
Kaur Khalsa, owner of Home Perfect in west Los Angeles, holds
prices flat to keep from being undercut by low-priced
upstarts. Creative Cleaning Services in Burke, Va., drops
rates 17% to $50 per hour to be competitive. But Custom Maid
in Santa Monica, Calif., eyes a pickup as the downturn
winnows weak firms. It adds: "We promote regularly, even if
we're starving."
   To help offset the downturn, Boston's Maid to Perfection
sells "environmentally safe" products to consumers.
                                                                                                       

   CEOS CHECK OUT after a takeover mainly because they lose
autonomy, says a study of 515 companies acquired from 1984 to
1988. The University of Denver's Graduate School of Business
found 65% of the CEOs had left by August, 1990; in hostile
bids, 96% had left by then. Departed CEOs also cited the new
owner's failure to listen to old management and breach of
verbal pacts.
                                                                                                       

   PLUG IN A NEW EMPLOYEE and get a $15 credit on your
electric bill, says Public Service Electric  Gas Co.,
Newark, N.J. It offers commercial customers credit for each
new employee hired. PSEG hopes to spur the local economy in
a $24 million plan that also includes $1,000 credits for some
first-time home buyers.
                                                                                                       

   STICKY TIMES AT THE AMEX. The American Stock Exchange's 8
a.m. kickoff yesterday for its emerging-company market also
launched some people to the cleaners: Each chair held two
chocolate-covered mints.
                                                                                                       

   I?NY. The Big Apple's tourism bureau outlines some core
problems and remedies. The New York Convention  Visitors
Bureau unwraps a report that suggests 49 strategies. But two
stand out: Rethink the impact of the state's 5% occupancy tax
on hotel rooms costing $100 or more and corral the perception
of crime on every corner. "One of the most important problems
we have in New York City is the image" projected to
outsiders, says William Sloboda, former head of the New York
Board of Trade, a not-for-profit business group.
   The report admits that its projection of $16.5 billion in
tourism expenditures by 2000 -- 71% more than in 1990 -- will
be tough to deliver without strategic changes like better
state, city and private cooperation. The tourism industry
hasn't played a strong advocate role in the past, notes
Marshall Murdaugh, bureau president. Why? "Because visitors
don't vote," he says.
   "There are five billion people on this planet. Half of
them speak English and I believe that most of them want to
visit New York," says Mr. Murdaugh.
                                                                                                       

   BRIEFS: Wertheim Schroder analyst Michael Ellmann, who
covers Eastman Kodak Co., says the proliferation of
camcorders kills the "photo op," but gives rise to "the
personal imaging occasion". . . . The New York, a Chicago
apartment building, allows prospective tenants a free
overnight visit.