Marketing  Media:
   Fox Broadcasting's Foray Into Cable
   Leaves Some of Its Own Affiliates Irate
   ----
   By Kevin Goldman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Fox stations are irate over their parent company's move,
contending that Fox Basic Cable will further erode their
audience. "This is a tough pill for us to swallow," says
Kevin O'Brien, chairman of the Fox affiliate board and
general manager of KTVU, the Fox station in San Francisco.
"It will be unfair to affiliates."
   Mr. O'Brien says the creation of a free cable network
owned by Fox "will open the floodgates of competition" by
allowing Fox stations to pick and choose what programming
they air -- even selecting programs supplied by rival studios
owned by Paramount Communications Inc. and Time Warner Inc.
   But Lawrence A. Jones, 40 years old, who last week was
named to head the project, plays down the controversy. "The
gap between broadcasters and cable is getting narrower," Mr.
Jones says. "And our game plan is clearly to establish an
identity in the cable television business." He adds that Fox,
a unit of News Corp., "will attempt to accommodate the
concerns of all parties."
   Mr. Jones, the former president of Fox's in-house
television-movie unit, says that both the launch date and the
programming for the new cable network are uncertain. He
refused to elaborate on the network's plans other than to
indicate that Fox will establish more than one cable network.
   According to Fox insiders, Fox Basic Cable is still
grappling with whether to offer only repeats of Fox shows
such as "The Simpsons," or only original programming or some
combination of both.
   To try to placate the affiliates, Fox is considering
repeating the entire local Fox station's programming on Fox
Basic, which will be offered free to subscribers. Under such
a plan, Fox would share the advertising revenue with the
individual station.
   If Fox expands beyond Fox Basic Cable, the other channels
may feature pay-per-view programming culled from first-run
movies from the 20th Century Fox unit, the insiders said.
   Although Fox Basic represents Fox's boldest foray into
cable, it made its first move last November by establishing a
relationship with giant cable operator TeleCommunications
Inc. Selected TCI systems already carry the channel dubbed
Fox Net, which broadcasts Fox programming in rural areas that
don't have a Fox affiliate. Fox Net is available in 1.3
million cable households, half of which are carried on TCI
systems.