What's News --
   World-Wide
The coup attempt followed violent protests and labor
unrest arising from a growing disparity between wealthy and
impoverished Venezuelans.
   ---
   Congress approved an extension of jobless benefits that
Bush has said he would sign. By a 404-8 margin, the House
adopted a $2.7 billion measure to give another 13 weeks of
coverage to those who have used up their benefits. The Senate
later voted its approval, 94-2.
   ---
   New York doctors aren't being paid adequately for treating
the elderly poor, a federal appeals court ruled. In a
decision that could ultimately affect the way Medicare
programs are administered in many states, the appeals court
found that New York encourages discrimination against senior
citizens who are poor.
   ---
   Mitterrand challenged France's rightwing opposition to try
to topple his Socialist government as he reacted to criticism
over Palestinian leader Habash's four-day stay in Paris for
medical treatment. The French leader, saying he would call a
special session of Parliament, defied opponents to introduce
a censure motion.
   ---
   A federal appeals court has struck down a blacks-only
scholarship fund at the University of Maryland, calling into
question the validity of race-based college scholarships. The
court said scholarships to correct discrimination are
unconstitutional without "a specific finding" that
discrimination persists.
   ---
   Basic food supplies will run out in Russia within 19 days
despite radical price reforms designed to replenish bare
store shelves, a Russian newspaper said. Another newspaper
accused Russia's leaders of "committing planned genocide"
against the Russian people because food prices have soared
while salaries and pensions remain low.
   ---
   Gen. Powell said he wants the world to be "scared to
death" of the U.S. military even after defense budget cuts,
because that will comfort Washington's allies and worry its
enemies. The chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff stressed
the need for a strong armed force and said his remarks
weren't intended to be "bellicose."
   ---
   Ukrainian leader Kravchuk reassured German officials that
the former Soviet republic would repay foreign debts, pursue
disarmament and set up a homeland for ethnic Germans.
Kravchuk, on his first trip abroad as leader of an
independent nation, also said Ukraine would try to stop
nuclear scientists from selling their skills abroad.
   ---
   Hong Kong police fired tear gas to break up two groups of
Vietnamese boat people gathering inside a detention camp
where 21 people were killed a day earlier in factional
fighting. It wasn't clear what triggered the violence, termed
the worst in Hong Kong's refugee camps since the Vietnamese
began arriving there 12 years ago.
   ---
   The Bush administration eased its embargo against Haiti to
help out an estimated 40,000 factory workers, almost all of
whom have lost their jobs as a result of the economic
sanctions. The White House also moved to block the U.S.
assets of Haitians who are providing financial backing to
Haiti's coup leaders.
   ---
   A masked gunman shot dead three people in the Belfast
office of Sinn Fein, the political wing of the Irish
Republican Army, and security officials in Northern Ireland
said the assailant was a suspended policeman. The gunman,
posing as a reporter, wounded two other people in the attack.
He apparently killed himself shortly afterward.
   ---
   A South African judge announced that he had been given
evidence that could link agents from camps once indirectly
funded by the army to the promotion of township violence. But
the judge said the evidence so far didn't support charges
that the South African Defense Force was still providing
funds for violent activities.
   ---
   The U.S. is losing the war against cancer by focusing on
factors such as diet and tobacco use, while discounting
environmental causes, a group of independent scientists said
in a statement. The scientists said officials are ignoring
"the causal role of avoidable exposures to industrial
carcinogens in air, food, water and the workplace."
   ---
   Died: Henderson Supplee Jr., 88, former president and
chairman of Atlantic Refining Co., a predecessor of Atlantic
Richfield Co., Monday, in Bryn Mawr, Pa.