U.S. Endorses GATT Official's Plan
   On Trade but Will Seek Some Changes
   ----
   By Bob Davis
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
"The big economic gains aren't there to be evaluated,"
said U.S. Trade Representative Carla Hills. Nevertheless, she
called the proposal a "major milestone" in concluding the
tortuous talks, which have run five and a half years.
   Senior U.S. trade officials said the U.S. would push to
toughen proposals by Mr. Dunkel for rules governing
copyrights, patents, and "unfair trade" lawsuits. But the
most immediate obstacle to reaching agreement is resistance
in the European Community to the agricultural provisions.
   The EC, which is meeting to consider the trade
negotiations this weekend, already has said it would reject
Mr. Dunkel's agricultural proposals because they would
require the EC to slash subsidies too deeply. The EC is
expected to try to persuade the U.S. and others participating
in the 108-nation talks to soften the proposal by exempting
direct payments to farmers from the proposed schedule of
cuts. While other indirect forms of subsidies would be
reduced, U.S. farm interests complain that exempting direct
payments would create a huge loophole.
   The attempts by the U.S., the EC and others to modify the
Dunkel plan pomises to make Monday's GATT meeting largely
ceremonial, with negotiators simply presenting their
country's positions. When Mr. Dunkel unveiled his plan about
three weeks ago, he had hoped that the coming GATT meeting
would yield a climactic yes-or-no vote. It is now clear that
weeks of negotiations lie ahead.
   At a hearing by the House Agricultural Committee, Deputy
Trade Representative Jules Katz called the Dunkel proposal "a
major step foward" in resolving the agricultural dispute with
the EC. Richard Crowder, undersecretary of agriculture,
echoed that assessment, saying Mr. Dunkel's draft "provides a
framework to bring the negotiations to a successful
conclusion."
   But the administration officials were followed by a
succession of farm organizations complaining that protection
for U.S. cotton, peanuts, sugar, rice and dairy products
would be substantially diminished. Under the Dunkel plan,
imports of those products into the U.S. would double in 1993
and nearly double again six years later.
   Rep. David Obey (D., Wis.) submitted a statement to the
committee, saying he opposed the Dunkel proposal. The
proposal would "severely damage" family dairy farmers, he
said, "who are looking for some help from the federal
government, not another kick." Mr. Obey's opposition presages
what would surely be a bitter battle in Congress to approve a
GATT agreement if negotiators finally wrangle a deal in the
pending talks in Geneva.
   Separately, the U.S. is reopening talks with China today
in an attempt to settle a potentially disruptive dispute over
Beijing's alleged disregard for U.S. patents, copyrights and
industrial secrets. If an agreement isn't reached by Jan. 16,
the U.S. intends to retaliate with punitive tariffs on
Chinese imports. Beijing has threatened to strike back with
"counter-retaliatory" tariffs on a number of U.S. products,
including aircraft, steel and corn.
   A senior U.S. official said there's slightly better than a
"fifty-fifty chance" that a breakthrough could be achieved.
When the two sides last met before Christmas, China withdrew
a number of previously-offered concessions, prompting the
U.S. to complain that the talks are "retrogressing." Wu Yi,
the head of the Chinese negotiating team, was quoted earlier
as saying that this weekend's talks in Washington could
succeed if the U.S. "shows just a little bit of sincerity."
   ---
   Corrections  Amplifications
                                                                                                       

   THE RICE MILLERS' ASSOCIATION said the rice industry
hasn't taken a position on the so-called Dunkel plan for
concluding world trade talks. In Friday's edition, it was
incorrectly stated that rice organizations testified against
the Dunkel plan at a House hearing Thursday. The proposal by
Arthur Dunkel, director-general of the General Agreement on
Tariffs and Trade, would liberalize trade and cut agriculture
subsidies world-wide. Rice was also incorrectly included on a
list of crops that might lose substantial U.S. protection
under the plan.
   (WSJ Jan. 13, 1992)