International:
   When Many Are Fleeing Hong Kong,
   Others Find It's Profitable to Go Back
   ----
   By Ai Leng Choo
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
"I have many old friends who have returned to their family
businesses in Hong Kong," says Andrea Eng, president of the
Hong Kong Canada Business Association. "They are going back
because Asia is experiencing so much economic growth, and
there's also a shortage of manpower in Hong Kong." There also
is a sense that it's easier to accumulate wealth quickly in
Hong Kong, says Ms. Eng.
   There are 35,000 to 40,000 Canadian citizens living in
Hong Kong, the largest Canadian community in Asia, says
George Yuen, chief information officer of the Hong Kong
Economic and Trade Office in Toronto. But "it's very
difficult to keep track" of how many are emigrants who have
returned. "People move to and fro" for different reasons, and
some may have returned on extended vacations to visit
relatives, he says.
   The number of emigrants returning to Hong Kong is
estimated at about 6% of the number who leave each year. Of
the 62,000 people who left Hong Kong in 1990, nearly 29,000
settled in Canada, according to the Ministry of Employment
and Immigration Canada. Last year's flow to Canada dropped to
about 20,000.
   For its part, the Hong Kong government tries vigorously to
lure back former residents to help offset a chronic labor
shortage. It advertises civil-service job vacancies in major
newspapers abroad. In December, the government, in
partnership with Hongkong  Shanghai Banking Corp. and the
Hong Kong Institute of Personnel Management, opened a
recruitment office in Toronto. The agency, a branch of Hong
Kong IPM Manpower International Ltd., targets all Canadians
who are looking for employment in the colony, not just those
who had left Hong Kong.
   Toronto has a sizable population of Hong Kong emigrants,
many with professional qualifications. IPM intends to open
offices in Vancouver, another city attractive to Hong Kong
emigrants, and in Australia, the U.S. and Singapore.
   With emigration from Hong Kong expected to reach record
levels in 1994, IPM expects the rate of returnees to Hong
Kong to peak a few years after that. That is based on the
assumption that a majority of emigrants will be settling in
Canada and will qualify for citizenship after three years.
Reverse emigration from the U.S. is less significant than
from Canada, in part because it takes longer, five years, for
an immigrant to obtain U.S. citizenship.
   One of the more visible signs of a growing interest in
tapping the emigrant pool is an increase in the number of
job-vacancy ads placed by Hong Kong companies in
Chinese-language publications in Canada. "Several {Hong Kong}
companies have been advertising in business magazines here,"
says Ms. Eng of the Hong Kong Canada Business Association.
   A joint advertising campaign was launched late last year
by several Hong Kong higher-education institutions aimed at
recruiting academics to teach in Hong Kong, says Ernest Yin,
chief financial officer at Caldwell Partners International, a
Toronto executive search firm. In addition, he says, "There's
a very significant demand for qualified individuals,
particularly in the fields of finance, manufacturing and
engineering."
   Other factors contributing to the reverse flow of
emigrants is the shrinking job market in recession-hit Canada
and the frustration experienced by many new settlers when
they find that their professional qualifications aren't fully
recognized by Canadian companies. Says Joseph AuYeung, a
director of Toronto's Mandarin Club: "Opportunities, both
business-wise and job-wise, are bad here." In moving to Hong
Kong after becoming citizens, many of the returnees will be
able to "get back the seniority and benefits" they had in
their old jobs, he says.
   Many immigrants come to Canada with the intention of
staying, says Joseph Fung, a program director at the United
Chinese Community Enrichment Services Society in Vancouver.
But for professionals, "reestablishing themselves in a new
society isn't easy," says Mr. Fung, whose organization
provides counseling services to newly arrived Hong Kong
families. Although many people have reduced expectations in
their job searches, "there's difficulty even in getting a
junior-level position. After a few years of struggling, they
might go back," he says.
   While the number of returnees to Hong Kong is growing, the
majority of Hong Kong emigrants still seem committed to
staying in Canada, as indicated in a survey by IPM. The
survey, released last May, found that 57% of respondents said
they probably wouldn't return to Hong Kong, while 17%
intended to return. The rest were undecided.
   The main reasons cited by respondents for wanting to stay
in Canada was the quality of education, better living
conditions and Hong Kong's uncertain political future.
Reasons cited by respondents who intended to return were
adaptation difficulties, the cost of living in Canada, and
the fact that they already had gained Canadian citizenship.