Enterprise:
   Entrepreneurs Decry Pay-Phone Venture
   ----
   By John R. Emshwiller
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
ATT denies any wrongdoing. However, the telephone company
has hurriedly made settlement offers to the entrepreneurs in
an apparent effort to head off litigation.
   The dispute centers on an Atlanta company called Pay
Phones Inc. Pay Phones was incorporated last April 29 and
went into the business of selling pay telephones to
individuals, who would then operate the phones and collect
the revenues. Pay Phones also promised to find lucrative
phone locations and install the equipment. Minimum investment
for a package of six phones was $23,000, though many
entrepreneurs say they put in tens of thousands of dollars
more to get additional phones.
   Pay-phone ventures have been proliferating recently as
tough economic times prompt people to look for ways of making
extra income or replacing a lost job. While many of these
ventures are completely legitimate, some have allegedly
bilked the unwary of large amounts.
   Pay Phones had one very big marketing advantage over
almost all its competitors. The edge was spelled ATT.
   Last June 1, ATT and Pay Phones signed an agreement
making the Atlanta company an "authorized dealer" of ATT pay
phones. An ATT spokesman says Pay Phones was one of only two
companies in the country to receive that designation -- the
other being a company in Colorado that isn't involved in the
current controversy. Pay Phones estimates it eventually sold
over 4,000 ATT pay phones.
   Pay Phones played its ATT connection to the hilt.
Promotional literature was plastered with the ATT logo,
entrepreneurs say. Also displayed to potential customers was
a letter from an ATT official to H. Ellis Ragland, Pay
Phones' president. The letter spoke glowingly of Pay Phones'
"partnering" with ATT.
   In retrospect, entrepreneurs say, they put too much faith
in the presence of a big-name company. "I thought if ATT
felt Pay Phones was good enough to partner with then I was
fairly secure. I assumed ATT did its homework," says Linnea
Carlin, of Rochester Hills, Mich., who with her husband,
James, invested $33,000 in Pay Phones.
   But even ATT now concedes it didn't do sufficient
homework. For instance, the ATT spokesman says the company
wasn't aware that Mr. Ragland had a lot of unhappy investors
prior to Pay Phones.
   In a 1989 lawsuit filed in Atlanta federal court, 169
plaintiffs alleged that Mr. Ragland operated a "Ponzi scheme"
to defraud them of $7.5 million in real-estate partnerships
organized and managed by Mr. Ragland. The suit, filed against
a brokerage firm that sold the partnership interests, alleged
that money was "diverted" to maintain Mr. Ragland's "lavish
and expensive" life style. Marion Smith, an attorney for the
plaintiffs, says the suit was later withdrawn and refiled as
a federal arbitration action, which is still pending.
   In an interview, Mr. Ragland denies any wrongdoing and
notes he isn't actually a defendant in the matter. He
declines further comment. Mr. Smith says Mr. Ragland wasn't
named because he was in bankruptcy proceedings and it didn't
appear worth chasing him through the bankruptcy court.
Instead, the plaintiffs sued the brokerage firm that marketed
the partnership interests.
   Last November, Mr. Ragland was slapped with a
cease-and-desist order by Georgia state regulators for
allegedly operating a "scheme" to "defraud" investors in his
real-estate dealings. And last month, Mr. Ragland was
indicted in a Jonesboro, Ga., state court on eight counts of
securities violations and theft in connection with his
real-estate deals. Mr. Ragland denies any civil or criminal
wrongdoing.
   Pay Phones' customers say the ATT phones were sometimes
delivered months late or not at all. Silverrol Ferguson of
Baytown, Texas, says it took weeks "raising hell" with Pay
Phones before the company sent a locator to help him place
his six phones. But then the company never provided anyone to
install the phones, which are still sitting in his home.
   Those who did get phones operating say the revenues are
far less than the minimum $200 a month per phone promised by
Pay Phones. Pay Phones declines to comment on this
allegation. Michael McGill of Westchester, Ohio, says the
best monthly revenue he has seen from any phone is $97 with
the lowest coming in at $4.
   The latter doesn't come close to even covering monthly
hookup charges with the local phone company, says Mr. McGill.
The 57-year-old retired postal worker says the $23,000 he
gave to Pay Phones "was basically my life savings."
   Milissa Schack of California, Ky., says she and her
husband took out a second mortgage on their rural home to
come up with their $23,000. With only three of their six
phones installed and none producing anything close to $200 a
month, the family is having to sell livestock to meet
mortgage payments, Mrs. Schack says.
   Pay Phones' customers began complaining to ATT by
mid-1991. On Jan. 24 of this year, ATT terminated Pay Phones
as an authorized dealer. The same day it filed suit in
Atlanta federal court against Pay Phones, charging the
company with breach of contract, trademark infringement and
misrepresenting the closeness of its relationship with ATT.
   Also on Jan. 24, Pay Phones sent out a letter to its
customers blaming ATT for the mess. Phone deliveries from
ATT had been behind schedule, many phones arrived with
defects and ATT failed to live up to its promise to help
find locations, the letter asserted, noting that only 600 of
the 4,326 phones sold had actually been installed. "ATT has
led Pay Phones Inc. down a misguided path," the letter said.
   Pay Phones also filed a counterclaim in Atlanta federal
court against ATT. It denies the assertions in the ATT suit
and alleges that ATT "did in fact control the marketing,
selling, delivery and all other aspects of Pay Phones'
business."
   The ATT spokesman insists that the company was merely a
supplier to Pay Phones. He adds that Pay Phones was only
authorized to sell ATT equipment and that ATT isn't
responsible for any statements Pay Phones made about services
or potential profits. Nonetheless, ATT recently
air-expressed letters to Pay Phones' customers offering to
install their phones without charge if they agreed not to sue
ATT. About 80 people accepted that offer. Late yesterday,
the ATT spokesman said the company decided to sweeten its
proposal by offering to repurchase any uninstalled phones
from Pay Phones customers.
   It remains to be seen whether this will satisfy Pay Phones
customers. Plaintiffs' attorneys say they have talked with
over 200 Pay Phones customers who have expressed interest in
suing ATT and Pay Phones. Says Mrs. Schack: "ATT messed up
and we are going to have to go after it."