GM, Hungary Roll
   First Opel Astras
   Off Assembly Line
General Motors and Hungary's Raba Factory established a
joint venture in January 1990 to manufacture engines and
assemble cars. GM has invested $193 million in the venture.
   Prime Minister Jozsef Antall said the plant's first car
symbolized Hungary's economic rebirth.
   "This is a great day in our lives to see the first Opel
manufactured in Hungary," Mr. Antall said at the festive
inauguration of the plant, where a huge GM balloon hung over
the gate.
   "We are going to continue to move East, to grow with the
markets," Robert Eaton, president of GM Europe said. "Our
objective is to be No. 1 in this {Hungarian} market."
   GM signed a joint venture deal in Poland at the end of
February to produce 35,000 Opel Astras annually.
   The Szentgotthard plant, 124 miles southwest of Budapest,
provides 650 jobs in a country where close to 500,000 members
of the work force of 4.7 million are unemployed.
   The Astras will go on sale April 10, a spokesman said, and
will to be sold in Hungary. The plant plans to produce 15,000
cars annually, with each selling for about $13,000, Mr.
Hoffmann said.
   The 1.6 liter five-door Astra hatchback and Astra Caravan
will be produced at the plant. Starting in July, it will also
manufacture 200,000 engines annually, with a capacity to
double that output.
   GM Europe owns 67% of the Hungarian plant, Raba 20.6% and
the government's State Development Institute 12.4%.
   The Hungarian government has given GM Hungary a 10-year
tax holiday and a customs allowance on imported parts.
   The European Bank for Reconstruction and Development gave
GM Hungary a loan of 61.4 million ECUs ($75.2 million) in
February to complete financing of the project, Bernard
Lothschutz, GM Hungary's financial manager, told the state
news agency MTI.
   GM will face competition in the fall from Suzuki Hungary
which plans to produce Suzuki Swifts at a plant in the Danube
River town of Esztergom. Most, however, are for marketing in
Western Europe.
   After his speech, the prime minister drove the first Opel
Astra a short distance. The car is to be donated to the
Budapest Transport Museum.