Law -- Legal Beat:
   IRS, Many Other Drexel Creditors
   File Objections to Reorganization
   ----
   By Jonathan M. Moses and Milo Geyelin
   Staff Reporters of the Wall Street Journal
In addition, the IRS, which is slated to receive $183
million on the confirmation date of the bankruptcy plan and
$107 million in the course of six years, called the plan "not
feasible" because it "does not show a realistic basis that
all the installment payments" will be made.
   Drexel said through a spokesman: "We are attempting to
address the objections . . . and we believe those issues will
be resolved either by agreement or by the court in sufficient
time so that the plan can be confirmed."
   Individuals familiar with negotiations over the plan said
that a settlement has been reached with the IRS and that
talks are progressing well with New York City tax
authorities. Less progress is said to have been made in
conversations with New York state tax officials. The city
filed its objection on a $201 million claim, while the state
says it is owed $48 million.
   Details of the proposed settlements with the tax agencies
weren't available yesterday. A spokewoman for the government
attorney representing the IRS said she couldn't comment on
the settlement talks. Attorneys for the city and the state
didn't return phone calls seeking comment.
   U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Francis G. Conrad is scheduled to
consider approving the reorganization of the former
investment banking powerhouse at a two-day hearing March 5
and 6. If the plan is approved, creditors are expected to get
from 50 cents to 75 cents of every dollar owed, and a spinoff
investment firm called New Street will be formed, chiefly to
manage Drexel's assets.
   In addition to the judge's approval, the plan requires
endorsement of 50% of the creditors in each class,
representing at least two-thirds of the dollar value of total
claims in each class. Voting ends today.
   Most of the objections to the plan have been filed by
former employees of Drexel, who argue that the plan doesn't
treat them fairly. It will be up to Judge Conrad to weigh
their complaints, but individuals close to the bankruptcy
negotiations said that it's unlikely after two years of
planning that he'll make substantial changes.
   Other creditors filing objections include Citicorp's
Citibank, First Chicago Corp.'s First National Bank of
Chicago, Chemical Banking Corp. and the National Bank of
Yugoslavia. Lawyers said some objections were filed as a
cautionary measure to protect future interests, while others
challenge the ban on future lawsuits against former Drexel
officials.
   Judge Conrad rejected earlier arguments against the
lawsuit ban by the National Bank of Yugoslavia, brought on
separate grounds from those of the tax agencies. The bank is
appealing the matter to U.S District Judge Milton Pollack. If
the injunction is lifted, the reorganization plan could fall
apart, but Judge Pollack has played an active role in
crafting a settlement of Drexel-related suits and is unlikely
to brook any changes that might undo it.
   One potential creditor not objecting so far is Michael
Milken, the imprisoned former Drexel junk-bond chief. Mr.
Milken has filed claims worth hundreds of millions of dollars
but has been given extra time to object. He's likely to
object only if a proposed $1.3 billion settlement of civil
suits against him and others by Drexel, investors and thrift
regulators falls through. But individuals close to those
settlement talks said they are proceeding on course.
   The details of the proposed Milken settlement, which still
must be approved by Judge Pollack, are expected to be made
public at a news conference today.
   ---
   GAMBINO FAMILY settles organized crime case with New York
state.
   In a surprise development, Thomas and Joseph Gambino,
heads of the reputed organized-crime family that controls
trucking in Manhattan's garment industry, pleaded guilty to
one felony charge each -- restraint of trade and competition.
   The agreement abruptly ended a three-week trial in New
York state court in Manhattan, but its terms resembled more
the amicable settlement of a civil suit than a plea bargain
in a criminal case. Under the terms, both Gambinos and two
co-defendants must submit four of their trucking companies to
supervision by a court-appointed special master, sell the
companies within a year and contribute to a $12 million fund
to compensate victims and repay the government for expenses
in investigating and prosecuting the case.
   But none of the defendants faces either prison or
probation under the agreement, and the Gambino family will
retain control of its biggest trucking company, Dynamic
Delivery Corp. New York District Attorney Robert M.
Morgenthau praised the agreement as an unprecedented and
innovative conclusion to one of the city's biggest
organized-crime cases. But defense lawyers for the Gambinos
said the only unprecedented aspects of the settlement were
its favorable terms to the defendants.
   The Gambinos faced a 48-count indictment charging them,
two of their employees and four of their trucking companies
with enterprise corruption, larceny, coercion and extortion.
Each of the brothers could have been sentenced to 25 years in
prison if convicted. Instead, said Mike Rosen, defense
attorney for Thomas Gambino, "the defendants are walking out
the front door."
   The case involved the Gambino family's monopoly of
trucking within Manhatten's garment district and the delivery
of "cut work," or precut garment components, to sewing shops
in New York's Chinatown. The garment district is the nation's
largest apparel-manufacturing center, headquarters for up to
a quarter of the nation's estimated 12,000 clothing makers.
   Prosecutors alleged that Gambino monopoly practices
allowed trucks to charge up to 70% more than they would
charge if they had competitors. The net effect, prosecutors
said, was a 7.5% "mob tax" on the final price of most
clothing made in the garment district. The Gambino family
maintained its control with threats of violence and illegal
economic pressure, according to prosecutors, though no
evidence of actual violence was submitted in trial.
   Michael Cherkasky, the district attorney's lead
investigator in the case, said the agreement will shut down
the Gambino family's most profitable operation, and the only
one in which prosecutors have been able to prove illegal
trade practices.
   But defense lawyers said the favorable terms of the
agreement amount to a government concession that its criminal
case was falling apart. The agreement permits the Gambino
family to continue picking up garments from sewing shops and
delivering them to shipping and distribution points outside
the garment district. Mr. Morgenthau also agreed not to seek
any civil forfeitures in the case or file state antitrust
charges.
   ---
   SUITS AGAINST DIRECTORS and officers grew costlier in
1991.
   Although the number of lawsuits against corporate
officials began to level off last year after several years of
increases, payouts per claim were up. Insurance payments on
claims of more than $3.25 million increased significantly
from the year before, according to a consulting firm's annual
survey of 1,501 companies.
   About 4% of such so-called DO claims resulted in payments
to plaintiffs of more than $20 million, compared with 1% in
1990. "It goes up a little every year," said Phillip N.
Norton, a risk management consultant at Wyatt Co., Chicago.
   The survey also found that officials of companies involved
in mergers, acquisitions, takeovers or divestitures were more
than three times as likely as others to be sued. The
allegation by employees that they were wrongfully fired was
the most frequent issue raised in suits.
   Of the dozen industry groups surveyed, large banks and
savings and loan associations reported the most claims. Such
institutions also paid the highest DO insurance premiums,
with a median of $366,000. Utilities paid the second-highest
premiums, with a $351,000 median. The median for all survey
participants was $191,000.
   Savings and loan executives will be hit by even more
lawsuits this year as the Resolution Trust Corp. gears up its
legal efforts against them, said Stephen Sills, chief
underwriting officer for Aetna/Executive Risk Management
Associates.
   The report projects no significant changes for most
corporations in 1992. "The market is very hard to
characterize," Mr. Norton said, noting that large financial
institutions saw double-digit premium increases last year
while most industries had 5% to 8% increases.