International:
   German Guards
   At Berlin Wall
   Are Convicted
   ----
   By Timothy Aeppel
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The convictions -- the first against soldiers assigned to
keep East Germans from fleeing to the West -- are almost
certainly not the last. Nearly 300 investigations and one
other trial are under way in conjunction with killings at the
once highly fortified border, which no longer exists. In all,
some 200 people were killed trying to escape communist East
Germany. Monday's decision makes it likely that other cases
will reach court.
   In some cases, border guards were photographed by Western
cameras as they shot or injured would-be escapees, giving
support to those who argue that it's vital to bring these
guards to justice. But defining justice in such cases is
difficult. As in Nuremberg, where Nazis pleaded that they
were only carrying out orders, the East German guards argued
they couldn't be held responsible for acts sanctioned by
their government.
   Many legal scholars say it's hard to justify applying West
German law to events that occurred in what was then a
separate country -- whether or not it was legal. In his
closing argument, defense attorney Rolf Bossi told the court
last week: "What was right then, can't be wrong now."
   Moreover, many Germans sympathize, at least somewhat, with
the former guards, who were relatively young when the killing
occurred. Mr. Heinrich is 26 years old, and Mr. Kuehnpast is
27 now. At the trial, Mr. Kuehnpast cried repeatedly, saying
he would be haunted by the killing for the rest of his life.
   Critics argue that low-level minions are being put on
trial, while high-ranking East Germans remain free. The most
notorious is Erich Honecker, the former East German leader,
who has taken refuge in the Chilean Embassy in Moscow.
   Still, few cases seem as tragic as the one decided
yesterday. On a cold night in February 1989 -- just nine
months before the Berlin Wall opened -- Chris Gueffroy and
Christian Guadian, both 20 years old, scaled the wall that
separated East from West Berlin, crossing several barbed-wire
fences. But they were caught at the final metal fence.
   A dozen border guards converged on them, and shots were
fired. Mr. Gueffroy was shot through the heart -- the last
man to die while trying to cross the barrier. Mr. Guadian,
shot in the foot, was sentenced to three years in prison and
was later expelled to West Berlin.
   In court, all four border guards insisted they didn't
intentionally kill Mr. Gueffroy. But Mr. Guadian testified
that the shots were fired after the pair had given up.
   Berlin Regional Court Judge Theodor Seidel, in pronouncing
sentence, said there was no doubt that the deadly shot came
from Mr. Heinrich's rifle. And he drew parallels between
blind obedience to orders in the Nazi era and in communist
East Germany. Citizens have a duty to disobey unjust orders,
he said.
   "There is a central area of justice, which no law can
encroach upon," he said. "The legal maxim `whoever flees will
be shot to death' deserves no obedience."