International -- Washington Insight:
   U.S. Foreign Aid, Unpopular at Home,
   Is Slow to Adjust to a Changing World
   ----
   By Gerald F. Seib
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
As the U.S. economy has dipped and America-first rhetoric
has soared, foreign aid has become the topic politicians in
both parties most want to avoid. That became clear a few
weeks ago when the House soundly defeated the foreign-aid
authorization bill, which was designed to set guidelines for
disbursement of some $25 billion over the next two years.
   Just four months earlier, the House had passed a
preliminary version of the same bill. But since then, the
Soviet Union collapsed, the Cold War was buried for good, the
U.S. economy dipped back into recession, and an election that
will focus on domestic issues crept closer.
   The new mood was underscored recently when Patrick
Buchanan, the arch-conservative Republican presidential
candidate, showed up in a congressional hallway to blast an
attempt to revive the foreign-aid bill. He called the measure
a "Washington insider deal to shovel $25 billion out to the
Third World."
   The anti-aid sentiment "isn't new by any means," says Rep.
Lee Hamilton of Indiana, a leading Democratic voice on
foreign affairs. But this year, he says, it is "much, much
stronger because of the emphasis on domestic needs."
   Foreign aid currently is being financed temporarily as
part of a stopgap spending bill that expires at the end of
March. It isn't clear if money for the rest of the year will
be provided through legislation written by appropriations
committees or by yet another catchall spending bill.
   Either way, there are likely to be modest changes in
priorities to reflect the end of the Cold War. Lawmakers and
their aides calculate that more than $100 million can be
shifted from some current recipients to help the newly
independent republics of the former Soviet Union.
   Pakistan will be one of the losers. Its aid is being
choked off largely because the U.S. is angry over its
continuing nuclear-weapons program. Also, Washington doesn't
consider it so important now that it isn't needed as a base
for the U.S.-Soviet proxy war in neighboring Afghanistan.
   The Philippines also figures to become a big loser now
that it has decided to shut down the huge U.S. naval base at
Subic Bay. Yemen and Tunisia also are likely to lose U.S. aid
because of the perception they supported Iraq in the Persian
Gulf conflict. And in Africa, Somalia and Sudan are likely to
see their aid dry up because they continue to be ruled by
regimes often hostile to Washington.
   Such realignments will allow the U.S. to make its presence
felt by the world's new laboratories for democracy. But they
aren't enough to allow Washington to play a full role in
helping the emerging democracies in Europe and Latin America.
   Such countries cry out for help from Washington, and they
promise to turn into lucrative markets for American
businesses. But the U.S. is limping ahead with a foreign aid
program in which two countries -- Egypt and Israel -- consume
more than $5 billion annually, more than a third of the
total. Turkey, the other member of the Big Three aid
recipients, is scheduled to consume $700 million this year.
   For political reasons alone, those countries figure to do
well despite the overall aid chill. In fact, the only real
foreign-aid debate this year is likely to be over whether to
give Israel an additional $10 billion in loan guarantees to
build housing for immigrating Soviet Jews.
   Meanwhile, other opportunities to enhance America's
influence in new world power centers will go unexploited. The
U.S., which devoted 2% to 3% of its gross national product on
foreign aid in the days of the Marshall Plan after World War
II, today devotes only about 0.3% to foreign aid,
congressional analysts say. And Japan passed America in 1989
to become the world's biggest donor of aid. The U.S. may have
crept back ahead more recently, but only because of currency
fluctuations.
   "I'm very worried," says Rep. Hamilton. "If you analyze
our foreign-aid program and ask yourself why certain
countries are getting the money they're getting, the answer
is largely inertia. In other words, that's the way we've
always done it. We're just beginning to readjust our
priorities," he says.