Many May Find
   New Withholding
   Hard to Swallow
   ----
   By Rose Gutfeld
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
President Bush announced that the Treasury is changing the
tax-withholding tables to reduce overpayments: Many people
who typically get refunds will get smaller ones, starting
next year, while others will owe money. Meanwhile, paychecks
will increase about $25 billion over the next 12 months, a
rise designed to give a welcome jolt to the economy in the
election year. The increase will be as much as $172 a job for
single workers and $345 a job for married workers.
   The change will affect single people making $53,200 or
less a year in wages subject to withholding, and married
couples making $90,200 or less. People who don't want their
withholding reduced can fill out a new W-4 form, which they
give to their employers.
   The withholding provision, which originated in the
Treasury and was dubbed Project X, was a closely guarded
secret until it was announced in the president's State of the
Union address. Although it was reflected in the budget
numbers, it was never explained or referred to in the text.
   "In theory, this is an absolutely beneficial thing,"
asserted David Berenson, national director of tax policy at
Ernst  Whinney. "For the vast majority of people, it is
better to have the money than to make an interest-free loan
to government."
   Tax professionals and economists, however, question
whether the plan will work well in practice. "The American
taxpayer doesn't want to have to run to a finance company or
bank on April 15 to get a high-interest loan to pay his
taxes," said Robert Resichauer, director of the Congressional
Budget Office. "Given that situation, they've chosen to
over-withhold. There's a rationality to this behavior."
   To ease taxpayer anxiety, the Internal Revenue Service
said it would waive penalties for any underpayment of taxes
for 1992 that is caused by the change in the withholding
tables, although taxpayers would still owe interest. In
addition, the agency will review all returns for 1991 and
notify those taxpayers who are likely to owe money next year
as a result of the change, suggesting that they adjust their
withholding for 1992.
   Administration officials said that even after the
withholding change, the average refund will total around
$700, down from about $1,000 currently. About 88% of the
people in the affected income categories that currently get
refunds will continue to do so.
   Still, because the changes will go into effect
automatically and the increase in individual paychecks will
be small, many taxpayers may not realize they will owe
additional taxes or get smaller refunds until they fill out
their tax returns next year. "You can't imagine the shrieks
of horror you will get when people realize they have to pay
more money," said Sheldon Cohen, a former tax commissioner.
"People want to be over-withheld."
   Moreover, the prospect of tackling the calculations needed
to determine whether the withholding changes would be
beneficial may be intimidating to some taxpayers. "The W-4 is
an incredibly complex document," said Peter Merrill, senior
manager at Price Waterhouse. "It's complicated."
   The IRS said employees seeking to opt out of the change
should give their employers a new W-4 form claiming the same
number of withholding allowances. But they should ask that
extra tax be withheld. Married couples should divide $345 by
the number of pay periods each year and ask for that amount
to be withheld each payday. Single taxpayers should divide
$172 by the number of their pay periods.
   The Treasury is urging employers to put the revised tables
into effect as soon as possible. New withholding tables were
mailed Tuesday night to big employers. Small employers will
get their revised tables by mid-February. Officials said the
agency won't crack down on small businesses that aren't able
to begin using the tables by the March 1 deadline.