Movies:
   Making Batsequel's Trailer Pack a Punch
   ----
   By Thomas R. King
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Previews of coming attractions have become a huge business
in Hollywood. They can cost up to $750,000 to make, and it
sometimes takes months to wrestle them into final shape.
While there are about a dozen independent ad boutiques that
specialize in making trailers, Warner assigned "Batman
Returns" to its in-house operation, known as the Idea Place,
partly to keep the film elements as secret as possible.
   Making the trailer was a formidable challenge. The
production budget on "Batman Returns" is more than $50
million, about 10% higher than the original. "Batman,"
released in the summer of 1989, became the sixth
highest-grossing film of all time, taking in more than $250
million in the U.S. alone. It was also surrounded by an
enormous amount of hype.
   But the hype is long gone. And while Warner has lots to
promote in the sequel, it lacks a megastar like Jack
Nicholson, who many say helped drive the first film to such
heights.
   "We want to sell you Batman regardless of how you felt
about the first film," says Joel Wayne, senior vice president
of creative advertising at Warner Bros., a unit of Time
Warner Inc. "If you loved the first movie, we want to get you
excited about the sequel. If you're a little skeptical, we
want to convince you there's something new." Industry
executives figure Warner will spend at least $20 million to
market the film.
   Warner executives decided that a trailer could help
differentiate the sequel from the original film by stressing
its new characters, props and special effects.
   "What have we got?" asks Robert Friedman, president of
world-wide advertising and publicity. "Michael Keaton . . .
Batman . . . he's back. Danny De Vito . . . new villain, new
guy, big star. Michelle Pfeiffer . . . new villain, big
star." Not to mention such "new toys" as the Batboat.
   The first version of the trailer featured a
disproportionate number of scenes involving the Penguin,
played by Mr. De Vito. It featured a scene in which the
Penguin starts the Batmobile, sending fire roaring from the
engine, igniting another villain. It's a powerful scene, Mr.
Wayne says, but the image overpowered the trailer's limited
footage of Ms. Pfeiffer's Catwoman.
   Another version began with a scene of Mr. Keaton and Ms.
Pfeiffer, appearing as their alter egos, Bruce Wayne and
Selina Kyle, sharing cocktail conversation. The clip was
spliced with shots of the two as Batman and the Catwoman, and
would have included a lot of narration. "In truth, we didn't
think it was hip enough," Mr. Wayne says.
   The final version, which Warner sent to 7,000 theaters a
week and a half ago, has lots of action and a little romance,
and it seeks to show that "Batman himself has grown and
changed," Mr. Friedman says. The trailer opens with a fight
between Batman and the Catwoman. The Penguin zooms away in
the Batmobile in a classic smash-'em-up sequence; later, he's
shown escaping Batman's clutches by using a mechanized
umbrella frame. There are explosions. And there's a romantic
scene in which Mr. Keaton and Ms. Pfeiffer kiss.
   Every great trailer has a memorable line. For "Batman," it
was a garish-looking Mr. Nicholson snorting, "Wait 'til they
get a load of me." For "Batman Returns," the best line also
goes to a villain. After kicking and punching Batman, the
Catwoman falls after Batman wallops her. Defeated and
tearful, she looks up and says, "How could you? I'm a woman]"
But after Batman apologizes, she springs to her feet and
kicks him in the groin.
   The "Batman Returns" trailer was put through rigorous
consumer testing, and the Warner team thinks its final
version achieves the proper demographic balance. "We started
to dial in more women by using more footage with the
Catwoman," Mr. Friedman says. "We put in more dialogue to
balance the action so we could dial in more of the adult
audience. Now we think we have a piece that will appeal to
all."
   With the film opening June 19, some theater owners express
surprise that Warner waited so long to begin its campaign.
These days, trailers promoting big-budget movies often begin
screening more than six months before a movie opens.
   But with filming for "Batman Returns" still under way, key
scenes hadn't been shot when the trailer was being assembled.
"Given {director} Tim Burton's schedule, we thought we would
be doing a disservice to the picture to rush to make
Christmas," Mr. Wayne says. Warner did consider an early
teaser campaign showing the Batman logo with snow blowing
across it, since the film takes place in winter. "But that's
not really selling the movie," Mr. Wayne says.
   Warner is so confident of the trailer's appeal that it
sent it out "loose," or unattached to another film. Loose
trailers typically don't get played as often as those that
are permanently attached to movie reels because they require
theater owners to do their own splicing.
   Another "Batman Returns" trailer will hit theaters around
Memorial Day, one that Mr. Wayne describes as "richer," with
more special effects from the completed film. When the movie
opens, posters that now feature just a shot of the snowswept
bat logo and the words "The Bat, The Cat, The Penguin" will
change to include likenesses of the characters.
   While Warner executives are bullish on the sequel's
chances, even some insiders say they doubt the studio will
create the kind of frenzy that surrounded the original film.
"Everyone is wondering whether we're going to create the same
kind of phenomenon that we did the last time out," says Mr.
Wayne. "We're definitely going to create a stir. But certain
kinds of phenomena happen only once."