Boiler-Room Scams Rely on Theatrics
   To Separate Victims From Their Cash
   ----
   By Elyse Tanouye
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
"Boiler room" operations -- so named because they
typically operate out of low-rent quarters -- sell precious
metals, penny stocks, oil and gas partnerships and other
dubious investments over the phone.
   Despite claims to investors that they are experts, the
salespeople usually have little or no investment experience.
"The people on the phones are not typical con artists," Mr.
Martin says, "just local yokels looking for work."
   But in many boiler room operations, the managers are
"definite slime bags" steeped in the scam business, he says.
At one operation he infiltrated, a manager had spent three
years in a California prison for securities fraud.
   In pitching investors, the salespeople simply follow
prepared scripts that tout whatever they are selling as a
sure winner. But the scripts don't disclose the fat fees and
other charges that make profits difficult, if not impossible,
for investors to realize.
   The deception goes beyond the sales pitch. When one
salesperson seems to have a hot prospect on the phone, the
others gather around and make tradingroom noises to simulate
a busy office. Periodically, salespeople put a hand loosely
over the telephone mouthpiece and yell as if making trades,
Mr. Martin says.
   If the prospect on the phone balks, a manager sometimes
takes over and "really puts on the pressure," Mr. Martin
says. Depending on the situation, the manager may assure the
customer that the firm is trustworthy and his or her account
would be in good hands -- or he uses intimidation. It's not
unusual for boiler-room salesmen to yell and swear at people
on the phone, calling them idiots for not investing, Mr.
Martin says.
   In one boiler-room operation, according to the deposition
of a former sales representative, one of the principals would
grab the phone away from sales rep and begin yelling at the
customer, often standing atop a desk screaming, kicking and
slamming a golf club.
   Such tactics are often effective with older people, Mr.
Martin says. Older people often are passive and willing to
listen to the sales pitch, he says. And men generally are
more gullible than women, he adds. Having a ripe male
prospect be forced by his spouse to hang up the phone is
known among boiler-room salespeople as "getting wifed."
   Investors aren't the only pigeons, Mr. Martin observes.
The salespeople hired by boiler rooms often have to pay all
their expenses, including a share of the rent, long-distance
telephone charges and even a fee to use the phone for local
calls. In return, they receive 4% to 6% of the gross amount
of the sale.
   That would be a lucrative arrangement if the boiler room's
sales claims were true. Mr. Martin says he was told in one
employment interview that he could make $100,000 to $500,000
a year in commissions the first year. But he doubts the
salespeople working there made more than $40,000 before
paying back the expenses.
   (See related story: "Investors Burned in Commodities Deals
Sue the Lenders That Supplied the Cash" -- WSJ Jan. 24, 1992)