American
   Express Weighs
   Lehman Sale
   ----
   By William Power and Randall Smith
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
The executives added that American Express -- looking for
ways to raise capital as its core charge-card business has
suffered -- has expressed interest in such a transaction, but
is by no means committed to it. Indeed, the initiative for
the transaction has come from Lehman executives, who are
eager to regain control of the investment bank, which was
acquired by American Express in 1984.
   Lehman Brothers is the investment-banking and trading
division of Shearson Lehman Brothers Inc., one of the
nation's largest securities firms. American Express set up
Lehman as a separate division with its own name in late 1990,
as part of an overall restructuring of then-struggling
Shearson. The Lehman division includes all of Shearson's
investment banking, trading and research operations, but
doesn't include Shearson's 8,550 stockbrokers or the firm's
money-management operations.
   Wall Street executives say American Express is also
considering whether to sell off all or parts of other units
in its empire, including the Boston Co. money-management
division of Shearson. They said American Express has been
advised in the talks with Lehman management by Wall Street
takeover lawyer Joseph Flom of Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher
 Flom. Mr. Flom declined to comment, as did spokesmen for
American Express and Shearson.
   But a Lehman Brothers executive confirmed that an American
Express sale of a stake in Lehman "is on a list of
alternatives." He added: "There are a lot of us here who, if
we could do up a wish list, if we could structure it with
sufficient capital, wouldn't mind being independent."
   Said another Lehman executive: "Clearly, the idea is being
kicked around. I know a lot of people who'd like to see it
happen." The executives say the discussions are in the early
stages and have been kept quiet out of concern that Lehman
employees will become "fixated" on them.
   The recent boom in the stock prices of Merrill Lynch  Co.
and other publicly traded brokerage firms has stirred the
interest of American Express executives, who had watched
Shearson's share price plummet while Shearson was still a
public company. American Express sold the public a stake in
Shearson in 1987 and later bought back the shares at a much
lower price in 1990.
   One person familiar with American Express said, "A lot of
alternatives are being looked at, particularly in light of
where brokerage stocks are and the premiums they trade at in
the market."
   In recent months, American Express and Shearson officials
have vigorously denied that there is any consideration of
selling all or a portion of Shearson, including the Lehman
Brothers division. That's despite the fact that the Lehman
Brothers division, with 7,200 employees, now has its own
balance sheet and profit-and-loss statement within Shearson.
   The Lehman Brothers division is coming off a banner year;
it earned about $930 million before taxes and the payment of
bonuses in 1991, up sharply from its year-earlier
performance, according to the Lehman Brothers executives.
During 1991, Lehman nearly doubled its market share of U.S.
stock-and-bond underwriting, finishing behind only Merrill
Lynch and Goldman, Sachs  Co. in Wall Street's underwriting
rankings. The rising profits have rekindled the pride of
Lehman Brothers executives and given momentum to the spinoff
idea.
   Indeed, some Wall Street investment bankers and traders
say that Lehman Brothers executives have told them bluntly
during recruiting sessions that Lehman Brothers will one day
be "totally independent." This prospect is an inducement to
recruits because partners in an independent firm, by sharing
directly in the profits, can get rich quickly.
   The 141-year-old Lehman Brothers name was long one of the
most prestigious on Wall Street. But the investment bank was
wracked by civil war between its traders and investment
bankers, leading to the 1984 sale to American Express. But
now Lehman investment bankers feel they have resurrected the
firm's reputation; Lehman now runs its own separate
advertising campaigns that don't mention Shearson except in
the fine print.
   A sale of a Lehman Brothers stake would be the latest
permutation in Shearson's tumultuous history since American
Express bought Shearson in 1981. When American Express
subsequently sold a third of it to the public, it hoped to
reduce its stake in Shearson through further stock sales. But
American Express was forced by the 1987 stock-market crash
and Shearson's own financial problems, including its
ill-fated acquisition of E.F. Hutton  Co., to buy back all
of the firm from the public.
   ---
   Ron Suskind in Boston contributed to this article.