Marketing  Media:
   Sony Pictures Picks
   Mel Harris to Run
   Revamped TV Unit
   ----
   By Laura Landro
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Mr. Harris is the first senior TV executive that the new
management of Sony Pictures, a unit of Sony Corp., has
recruited from outside the company. In the three years since
Sony acquired Columbia, Sony Pictures' chief executive
officer, Peter Guber, has primarily focused on recruiting new
executive talent for the company's two movie units, Columbia
Pictures and TriStar Pictures.
   Sony's TV operations are among the largest in the
industry, producing such shows as "Married . . . With
Children," "Who's the Boss?" and "Designing Women." It also
produces daytime soap operas and the "Wheel of Fortune" and
"Jeopardy" game shows.
   Mr. Harris left Paramount, a unit of Paramount
Communications Inc., last August, a few months after his
boss, Frank Mancuso, was forced out of his post as chairman
of the studio. Brandon Tartikoff, the former head of the
entertainment division of General Electric Co.'s NBC unit,
was named to succeed Mr. Mancuso. Although Mr. Harris was
expected to stay on, he resigned, saying Mr. Tartikoff should
be "allowed to build his own team." At the time, Mr. Harris
said that he had no other plans except to make up for years
of lost vacations.
   In a telephone interview yesterday, Mr. Harris said he had
been approached by a number of companies, but Columbia
presented the most intriguing offer. "Overall, this is a
company with a vision and a very enthusiastic management, and
they want to build things," Mr. Harris said. He added that he
will, among other things, attempt to expand Sony Pictures
into areas where it "has not been as aggressive," including
cable-TV programming and so-called barter syndication, the
practice of swapping programs for advertising time.
   Mr. Harris, who started his career as a disk jockey,
joined Paramount in 1977 after working for broadcast TV
stations. He rose through the ranks of the TV group, building
it into one of the industry's most diversified and successful
production companies. During his tenure, he oversaw
production of such series as "Cheers" and "Family Ties," and
the creation of syndicated shows such as "Entertainment
Tonight," "The Arsenio Hall Show" and "Star Trek: The Next
Generation." He also helped form the USA Cable Network, of
which Paramount owns 50%.