Foreign Exchange:
   Dollar Rises Sharply Against the Mark
   But Continues Slide in Trading with Yen
   ----
   By John van Rosendaal
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
Sterling was trading at $1.8657, down from $1.8690.
   Market participants and analysts were hesitant about
drawing any conclusions from yesterday's trading, pointing to
a lack of volume as the market remains in a holiday mode and
trading in Japan won't resume until next week.
   "I'm more comfortable with what the dollar-yen is doing at
this time than I am with other parts" of the market, said
Richard Pontius, an assistant vice president at First
Interstate Bank of California in Los Angeles.
   While several factors influenced trading, none had a
crucial impact, and traders said the weak U.S. economy is
still pressuring the dollar.
   Nevertheless, the dollar "breached some pretty good
levels" against the mark in its climb, said Rick Porter, vice
president of corporate foreign exchange at Fuji Bank Ltd. in
New York. The currency reached an intraday high of 1.5350
marks and later approached that level several times in choppy
trading.
   The mark was pressured by the yen's strength ahead of
President Bush's visit to Tokyo next week and from worries
about possible upheaval in several republics of the former
Soviet Union, traders said.
   The end of price controls on most products in Russia and
similar steps in the Ukraine have caused widespread fears of
civil unrest. Germany, with its large debt exposure to the
republics, is seen as particularly vulnerable to possible
upheaval.
   Indications of a slowdown in the German economy also put
pressure on the mark, market watchers said. And German
Economics Minister Joergen Moellemann said the country's
economy is at a crossroads where it isn't clear whether it
will slip into recession or continue on an expansionist path.
   Traders said the yen was helped by growing expectations of
acceptance of a yen-strengthening package by President Bush
and Japanese Prime Minister Kiichi Miyazawa that would be
aimed at narrowing the U.S.-Japanese trade imbalance. A
stronger yen generally hurts Japanese exports and spurs
imports into Japan.
   Yesterday's trading once again proved that the yen is a
"political currency," said Robert Ryan, a foreign exchange
manager at Bank of New York.
   Although the dollar slipped against the yen, the U.S.
currency was aided by the yen's rally against the mark, Mr.
Ryan said.
   Traders said the dollar is likely to move lower next week
against the mark on the back of a further slide of the U.S.
currency against the yen once the U.S.-Japanese trade talks
are under way.
   The talks and several key economic indicators also are
expected to put the U.S. economy back in the spotlight and
are likely to further weaken the dollar, traders said.
   "Once we can refocus on the U.S. next week," said Fuji
Bank's Mr. Porter, "we will see the dollar move lower on the
mark." He said the dollar could slip to 1.50 marks next week.
   The market largely discounted the release of U.S. jobless
data for the week ended Dec. 21, but expectations of a severe
decline in the National Association of Purchasing Management
index undermined the dollar ahead of its release and caused
it to fall to its intraday low against the yen, traders said.
   Initial claims for state unemployment insurance on a
seasonally adjusted basis fell 29,000 to 438,000 from a
revised 467,000 the previous week.
   The Purchasing Managers' Index dropped to 46.5 in
December, down sharply from 50.1 in November. It was the
first time the index had fallen below 50 since June. A
reading below 50 indicates that the manufacturing segment of
the economy is generally declining; a reading above 50 is a
signal that it is generally expanding.