Law:
   Divorce Lawyers Often Shortchange,
   Overcharge Women Clients, Study Finds
   ----
   By Ellen Joan Pollock
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Unlike many other investigations of the financial effects
of divorce, the study, sponsored by New York City's
Department of Consumer Affairs, focuses on the economic
relationships between divorce lawyers and their clients.
Academics and consumer advocates say the problems in New York
-- where the price of a contested divorce is typically
$50,000 -- are mirrored elsewhere in the country.
   "The adversarial system makes money for lawyers and
doesn't solve problems," says Leigh Hauter, field director
for HALT, a legal advocacy group. "Divorce brings more people
to HALT than almost anything."
   Women are "dealt the weakest hand" by the divorce process,
says Mark Green, New York City's consumer affairs
commissioner. "It's a war of attrition where the loser is the
one whose assets have been exhausted. Usually, that's the
woman."
   Singled out for criticism in the report is the way divorce
lawyers bill their clients. The lawyers "demand huge sums" on
the eve of trial or a settlement, pressure clients into
premature settlements if they fear the money will run out and
pad their bills, according to the report.
   But some of the "patterns of financial abuse" highlighted
in the report are legal in some states or fall through the
cracks of lawyers' ethical codes. And they are routinely used
by lawyers who fear they won't be paid for their services.
   Many divorce lawyers require clients to pay a
non-refundable, up-front retainer. The report criticizes
divorce lawyers for often refusing to return the money if
they end up doing little or no work.
   It also attacks some divorce lawyers' practice of placing
a lien or mortgage on a client's home to ensure that the
legal fee is paid. Women are also manipulated into
prematurely turning over other kinds of security on legal
fees, according to the report. They sign over control of
settlement awards -- even before they are negotiated -- and
sign other documents that make it easier for lawyers to go to
court to obtain legal fees.
   The report also faults divorce lawyers for holding onto a
client's case file and personal documents if fees haven't
been paid. This so-called "retaining lien" often prevents
clients mired in fee disputes from retaining a new lawyer.
   Stephen Gillers, a professor at New York University School
of Law who was interviewed by the researchers, says that too
often divorce lawyers make unfair demands at points in the
divorce process where the client "really has no option."
   "Where I see the abuse," he continues, "is when requests
are made for significant security at a particularly
vulnerable time: on the way to the courthouse or when
answering papers are due on a temporary support motion and
for the first time the lawyer says, `You're into me for
$15,000, and before I do these papers, I want your jewelry,'
or your passport, or whatever."
   Marsha B. Elser, president of the American Academy of
Matrimonial Lawyers, says her Chicago-based organization
"recognizes the problems that women in general have in the
legal system," but she argues that lawyers "have every right
to be paid for the services they perform."
   Some lawyers believe attorneys should be permitted to
place a mortgage on a client's home or take other forms of
security. "It may be the only way that a particular woman --
or the disenfranchised party -- can get effective
representation," says Raoul Felder, a New York matrimonial
lawyer, who nevertheless says he is uncomfortable with the
practice.
   "It's naive to say to lawyers that {they're} not entitled
to a security interest in fees," says Donn C. Fullenweider, a
Houston divorce lawyer. "It's the same as saying to a bank,
you're not entitled to a security interest for your loan."
Like other divorce lawyers, he says, "The majority of lawyers
I know in the field are extremely responsible."
   Some divorce lawyers, especially in New York, fault
Commissioner Green for issuing the report without sufficient
input from members of the organized matrimonial bar. Kenneth
Kemper, a New York divorce lawyer, says that the study
"violates basic fairness" and that Mr. Green is trying to
make "political hay."
   Mr. Green says his office interviewed 107 lawyers,
clients, judges and scholars for the study, and that its
critics simply don't "like our conclusions."
   In the report, the department of consumer affairs suggests
solutions that would have to be approved by the appellate
divisions of New York's state Supreme Court or courts in
other states that regulate lawyers. The report recommends
that lawyers be required to provide clients with written,
itemized retainer agreements, and that the documents be filed
with the state agency charged with court administration. It
also recommends mandatory arbitration of fee disputes and
prohibitions of "coercive tactics that force clients to waive
their right to dispute the fee." Commissioner Green has also
said he will issue his own consumer bill of rights for
divorce clients.
   And the report, as well as many divorce lawyers, points
out that judges could make things easier for women by
requiring their husbands to turn over money to pay their
legal fees. Lynn Hecht Schafran, a lawyer for the NOW Legal
Defense and Education Fund, says judges often fail to provide
for any or adequate legal fees during the course of a case,
though they are empowered to do so.
   She adds that some good matrimonial lawyers "are just
saying flatly that they won't represent women anymore."