International:
   Many of Asia's Workers Are on the Move
   ---
   Region's Labor Shortages
   Spur a Wave of Migration
   ----
   By Raphael Pura
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Asian workers are on the move. More than two million men
and women from East and Southeast Asia have left home to work
elsewhere in the region. This growing labor force no longer
comprises mainly domestic helpers, construction workers or
unskilled farm laborers; it includes accountants, flight
attendants, machine-tool operators and cooks. In the 1990s,
economists expect more workers to flow across the region's
increasingly porous borders, legally and illegally, raising
worrisome economic and social questions.
   What's happening in East Asia's most successful economies
mirrors demographic trends first seen in industrializing
Western Europe and North America. As Asian economies prosper,
birth rates fall, people live longer, urbanization gathers
speed as rural workers migrate to higher-paying jobs, and
labor costs rise. Gradually, the expansion of working-age
populations is slowing as Asia's more economically advanced
nations age.
   The West's industrial powers coped with these changes by
drawing immigrants from poorer countries and automating
production to remain competitive. But ethnically homogenous
Japan's path to industrialization put a new spin on Asia's
demographic development. Long reluctant to import foreign
labor, Japan instead exported capital to Asian countries with
labor surpluses. That produced a tide of manufacturing jobs
that has spread through Asia's first generation of newly
industrialized countries, or NICs-South Korea, Taiwan, Hong
Kong and Singapore. That tide, fueled with fresh capital from
the NICs, has now spilled over into Southeast Asia,
triggering a repeat of the cycle there.
   As a result, demographic patterns that took 100 years to
evolve in the West are being compressed into a few decades in
countries such as South Korea, Taiwan and Singapore. There,
growth in the domestic labor force is likely to slow by
between 25% and 50% in the 1990s from the previous decade.
Demographers detect similar trends emerging in Thailand,
Malaysia, and even Indonesia, which remains comparatively
poor. Japan's work force, already the oldest among
industrialized nations, is expected to begin shrinking soon
after the turn of the century.
   "Trends are pretty clear. In Japan and virtually all of
the newly industrialized countries, there are severe labor
shortages," says John Bauer, a labor economist at the
Population Institute at Hawaii's East-West Center. "These
will become much more dramatic over the next decade. These
countries haven't seen anything yet."
   Already, the newly industrialized countries of Asia must
import tens of thousands of workers. And soon, some
economists fear, unmet demand for skilled technicians,
scientists and managers could blunt the robust economic
expansion and industrialization that is transforming
countries such as Malaysia and Thailand.
   All of this means that larger labor migrations are on tap,
says Steven Wong Cheng Ming, assistant director-general for
international economics at Malaysia's Institute for Strategic
and International Studies. "We're going to see an enormous
tangle about how to come to terms with cross-border flows of
labor."
   The shifting labor picture is already reshaping some
national economic goals. Tiny Singapore, which limits the
number of foreign workers, has tacitly accepted the prospect
of slower growth and the need to relocate many industries to
neighboring Indonesia and Malaysia. Taiwan is recruiting
thousands of Southeast Asian workers, and in Malaysia, where
more than 50% of construction and plantation workers already
are foreigners, employers recently were allowed for the first
time to import labor for certain factory jobs.
   "By the middle of the decade, we will have to re-rate the
region's ability to sustain growth in the labor force,"
predicts Miron Mushkat, chief regional economist at Baring
Securities (Hong Kong) Ltd. "In some parts of Asia, we're
already reaching the point of demographic stagnation."
   Some countries have begun to overhaul antiquated education
systems and vocational-training programs to focus on the
future needs of increasingly manufacturing-based economies.
But results won't come quickly. Local businesses, too, will
have to invest in automated production, job training, and
research and development. Wages, which have been rising fast
in countries such as Singapore and South Korea, will have to
climb some more. Matching productivity gains to salary
increases will become a key task for Asian managers.
   "How we solve our labor problem will depend on increasing
productivity over the next 10 years," says Kamal Salih,
executive director of the Malaysian Institute of Economic
Research. "If we can manage it, growth won't be disrupted.
But if we don't do something now, this will be a very serious
bottleneck in our industrialization process."
   Some free-market advocates aren't too worried. They
contend that the laws of supply and demand make the greater
flow of labor across borders inevitable, and they point to
Europe's single market as an example. But in Asia, many
countries are wary of opening their doors to a diverse
assortment of immigrants. Doing so will require painful
economic and social tradeoffs.
   Resistance from labor unions to imported workers also has
cropped up from Malaysia to Hong Kong to Japan. Their fear:
Employers obsessed with quick fixes offered by cheap migrant
labor won't upgrade the salaries and working conditions of
local employees. "How can you develop a country by flooding
it with foreign labor?" asks G. Rajasekaran, a leader of the
Malayan Trade Union Congress. Still, many economists are
optimistic, noting that with some exceptions, wages and
incomes in developing Asia remain well below those in Japan
and the West, leaving plenty of room for big productivity
gains.
   Other upbeat analysts say tight labor supplies will force
rapid technological innovation and adoption of sophisticated
production techniques that will enhance Asia's long-term
competitiveness. "Shortages will drive these economies
up-market," says William Overholt, executive director of
Bankers Trust Co. in Hong Kong.
   "This isn't a problem, this is one aspect of success. It's
only a problem if you react by trying to delay the process,"
says Mr. Overholt.