Macy Gives Vice Chairman No. 2 Post,
   Putting Him in Position to Succeed Chief
   ----
   By Jeffrey A. Trachtenberg and George Anders
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
In an interview earlier this week, Mr. Finkelstein stated
emphatically that he is committed to staying with Macy and
that he intends to continue in those positions at least until
the retailer exits from Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection. "I
feel energetic and involved," said Mr. Finkelstein. "I have a
responsibility to take this company out of Chapter 11."
   In federal bankruptcy court documents filed recently in
lower Manhattan, Macy disclosed that Mr. Ullman received an
"attractive and lucrative {job} offer" from another company
before the bankruptcy filing. Mr. Ullman would have become
the second senior executive in that company, which wasn't
identified, and would have received a major pay increase.
   Seeking to retain Mr. Ullman, the court papers show,
Macy's board granted him a new employment contract the day of
the bankruptcy filing. The contract entitles Mr. Ullman to
severance payments of at least $2.4 million if he isn't
promoted after Mr. Finkelstein steps down. Last night, Mr.
Finkelstein said the contract was "a response to a legitimate
offer" and that Macy "wanted Mr. Ullman in place."
   Mr. Finkelstein added that the contract was designed only
to give Mr. Ullman "financial security," and that "no
successor has been named or implied." He added that other
executives will also be accorded financial security shortly
as in other bankruptcies.
   The new contract, however, also named Mr. Ullman chief
operating officer, Macy's traditional No. 2 post. Formerly,
Macy President Mark Handler had been chief operating officer.
Mr. Handler retains the president's title and gains the title
of chief merchandising officer.
   Within the last week, succession issues at Macy
intensified at a board meeting. At that meeting, according to
witnesses, director Laurence Tisch told Mr. Finkelstein that
Macy bondholders-upset at their losses on the company's
securities -- felt it was time for a change in the company's
top management.
   Mr. Tisch, chairman of Loews Corp., which owns 17% of
Macy's stock, didn't personally pressure Mr. Finkelstein to
step down, a witness said. Rather, Mr. Tisch and his oldest
son, James, said they were merely relaying bondholders'
concerns.
   Regardless of how the Tisches couched their concerns, they
touched off a spirited reaction from Mr. Finkelstein.
According to witnesses, Mr. Finkelstein responded with an
extended recap of his contributions to Macy over the past two
decades, going back to the days when he ran Macy's West Coast
operations.
   Mr. Finkelstein gave no indication at the meeting that he
was interested in stepping down. And Macy bondholders so far
haven't presented any unified challenge to Mr. Finkelstein's
continued tenure at the retailer.
   Commenting last night on that meeting, Mr. Finkelstein
said: "There was never any indication of anything but
complete support for management, and the fact that
bondholders are cranky is known by management and the public
at large. You couldn't have a stronger supporter than Larry
Tisch."
   Mr. Ullman joined Macy in 1988 as executive vice president
and was promoted to vice chairman in August 1992.
   In addition to his new title, Mr. Ullman was given a base
salary of $800,000 a year, with a promise of 10% annual
increases for three years. More significantly, the agreement
specifies that if Mr. Finkelstein "ceases for any reason" to
be chief executive officer of Macy, Mr. Ullman will receive a
new executive position that "represents an increase in
status, duties and authority," within 60 days.
   If Mr. Ullman doesn't receive the new post, he will
receive from Macy an amount equal to three times his current
salary.