Labor Letter:
   A Special News Report on People
   And Their Jobs in Offices,
   Fields and Factories
   ----
   By Christopher Conte
Now, counseling is reappearing at some places.
Schering-Plough will announce a new program next month.
Mellon Bank, emerging from what a spokesman says was no
"halcyon period," is developing one. Responding to pleas from
professional employees, Dallas-based E-Systems plans courses
on career paths -- to be taught by line managers, not
professional trainers.
   Graco Inc. in Minneapolis offers after-hours career
courses that include psychological testing; Wendy's sponsors
quarterly self-assessment training workshops.
                                                                                                       

   DO IT YOURSELF: Even employers that provide career help
urge self-reliance.
   "Companies in the 1990s challenge employees to take
responsibility for their own careers," write Barry Grossman
and Roy Blitzer in Training and Development magazine. They
recommend that employees devise their own career plans, build
their own networks, tailor goals to the needs of the
organization and "don't be disappointed if your manager or
supervisor isn't skillful in helping."
   Uncertain business conditions decrease the chances of
steady advances and even permanent employment within a
company, a Conference Board study notes. It urges broadening
skills through new assignments and lateral transfers. British
Petroleum Exploration, which is cutting back and
reorganizing, helps employees devise "personal development"
plans that cover all types of opportunities -- both within
the company and elsewhere.
                                                                                                       

   WORK STOPPAGES fell to near record lows last year.
   If it hadn't been for the one-day national railroad
strike, which idled 230,000 workers, 1991 would have been, by
some measures, the quietest year since the Labor Department
started tracking strikes and lockouts in 1947. Including the
railroad strike, there were 40 work stoppages, affecting
392,000 workers. In all, workers were idled for 4.6 million
days, or two of every 10,000 available work days.
   Collective bargaining agreements covering 2.7 million
workers expire or reopen in 1992. With inflation tamed, most
employers expect to negotiate first-year wage boosts well
under 4%, according to a survey by the Bureau of National
Affairs, a reporting service. For unions, BNA says, wage
increases will take a back seat to job security.
   Expiring this year are contracts covering more than
400,000 workers at ATT, the regional Bells and GTE, as well
as 57,000 Boeing workers.
                                                                                                       

   END OF THE TUNNEL? After three decades of decline, the
union share of total employment leveled at 16.1% last year,
the Labor Department says. But it's too early to proclaim a
reversal in organized labor's fortunes; union membership
still declined -- by 172,000 to 16.6 million. It held its
share only because total employment dropped 1.1 million to
102.8 million.
                                                                                                       

   FALLING BEHIND: Lower savings and higher medical costs
mean workers will have a harder time maintaining their
standard of living after retirement, according to an analysis
by Georgia State University and the Alexander  Alexander
Consulting Group. In 1988, they estimated that someone
earning $40,000 would need retirement income equal to 68% of
that, plus Social Security; now they estimate the need at
77%.
                                                                                                       

   SCHOOL COMES FIRST, Maine tells teen-agers. The state says
kids under 16 can't work part time unless they have passing
grades in most of their courses. It also limits 16- and
17-year-olds to no more than 20 hours of work per week while
school is in session.
                                                                                                       

   U.S. HARD HATS and managers rank high in international pay
comparisons.
   In a study of earnings in 48 major cities around the
world, Union Bank of Switzerland found that construction
workers last year were paid most -- $23,700 after taxes and
deductions for social services -- in Los Angeles; New York
and Chicago also made the top five. The highest average net
pay for experienced white-collar managers was $67,100 in New
York.
   But the best U.S. ranking for public school teachers was
Los Angeles's fourth-place ($29,500); for bank tellers, New
York's sixth ($22,300); and a sixth place for Los Angeles
textile workers ($13,700). Overall, wage and salary levels
were highest in Zurich, Geneva and Copenhagen; Chicago and
Los Angeles, the top U.S. finishers, came in seventh and
eighth.
   The average employee in Chicago must work 18 minutes to
buy a Big Mac and large fries; the average worker in Mexico
City must put in almost four hours.
                                                                                                       

   THE CHECKOFF: The Rochester Institute of Technology
launches a study into why many sign language interpreters for
the deaf suffer repetitive motion disorder. . . . Iberia
Airlines, advertising in Miami for flight attendants, says
one prerequisite is the ability to swim. . . . Fully 28% of
corporate employees believe, erroneously, that calls on WATS
lines are free, says a survey by Atlanta-based Tele Choice
Consulting.