Letters to the Editor:
   There's No Such Thing as `Yugoslavia'
He goes to extraordinary attempts to give us a
revisionist-historical perspective of Tito, portraying him as
a hero figure who united an uncontrollable mass of common
people. The plain truth is that Tito was a dictator who not
only ruthlessly imposed a communistic form of government on
the Slovenian people, but also spent his life perpetuating
the myth of Yugoslavia, a forced confederation of states
originating in the negotiations of the victorious Allied
Powers at the conclusion of World War I. Slovenia's June 25,
1991, declaration of independence is this people's first
attempt to have the world finally recognize the true nature
of the region.
   Mr. Anderson further ignores the economic miracle of
Slovenia, which generates 25% of the gross national product
of Yugoslavia with only 8% of its population.
   Despite his call for a "status quo" and a return to the
"good old days" of dictatorship and communism, Slovenia has
chosen to pursue a brave and independent future with or
without the support of the U.S. government.
   William Mahnic
   Cleveland
   ---
   A more appropriate headline for the article would have
been "A Diplomat Tries to Explain Away the U.S. Policy
Mistakes Toward Former Yugoslavia." To paraphrase Mr.
Anderson -- a plague on him and our State Department. While
he was U.S. ambassador to Yugoslavia (1981-1985), that
country had the highest number of prisoners of conscience per
capita -- almost all of them Croatians, making Croatia the
most persecuted nation on earth. No mention of that ever by
Mr. Anderson.
   Now, however, there is panic at the State Department -- an
article in the Feb. 24 New Republic, "Yugoblunder," exposes
the depth of corruption and unprofessionalism at the State
Department. The full story is yet to come out; however, even
the facts already known may cost President Bush his
re-election and could make the current genocide against
Croatia a domestic election-year issue.
   An attempt to control the damage is the real reason for
Ambassador Anderson's letter to his daughter, via The Wall
Street Journal.
   Lillian Axelrod
   Los Altos, Calif.
   ---
   Mr. Anderson's comments are an example of Western
ethnocentrism and hypocrisy:
   -- First, no one in what used to be Yugoslavia is asking
for Western soldiers "to be sent to die over a Serb-Croat
conflict." The Croatians and Slovenes are simply asking for
U.S. diplomatic recognition -- a fact not even mentioned by
Mr. Anderson] But the question remains why he implies that it
was honorable for Western soldiers (American soldiers in
particular) to die in the Gulf War, but not for the cause of
Croatian and Slovenian democracy.
   -- Second, to dismiss all Yugoslavs as "perverse,"
"tribal" and "incapable of coming to grips with the modern
world" is a cruel caricature. Surely many Yugoslavs want to
join the Western orbit of cultural values, including
democracy -- how else can one explain the many declarations
of independence from the remnants of Tito's Communist regime?
   -- Third, to say "a plague on both houses" {on the Croats
and the Serbs} is to imply that Croatian "provocation" is
equal in its immorality to the documented Serbian atrocities
against civilians. That is nonsense. It is like equating the
plight of the Jews to Hitler's Final Solution, assuming of
course that one agrees with Hitler that the Jews provoked the
Nazis. There is no way to justify or rationalize the Serbian
massacre of civilians by blaming the Croatians.
   Stjepan G. Mestrovic
   Professor of Sociology
   Texas AM University
   College Station, Texas