Wounded Giant:
   Union Carbide Offers
   Some Sober Lessons
   In Crisis Management
   ---
   Staggered by Bhopal Disaster,
   It Grew Insular, Cautious;
   Now, Its Future Is Unclear
   ---
   Costly New Safety Procedures
   ----
   By Scott McMurray
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Burdened with $70 million in pretax restructuring costs
last quarter, Union Carbide yesterday reported losses of $63
million in the fourth quarter and $28 million for the full
year. A year ago, it earned $7 million in the quarter and
$308 million in the full year.
   Other large companies facing their own crises today -- Dow
Corning Corp. concerning breast implants, for instance, and
Upjohn Co. on the disputed side effects of its Halcion
sleeping pill -- tend to look to successful cases of
crisis-management for guidance, such as Johnson  Johnson's
response to the Tylenol poisonings in 1982. But Union
Carbide's case offers its own cogent lessons -- on some
dangers to avoid.
   "Bhopal's effect on Carbide was very much like a shock to
the human nervous system. It changed the entire future of
that company," says Gerald Meyers, a crisis-management expert
and business professor at Carnegie-Mellon University.
   Executives suddenly turned cautious and insular. They
reacted defensively to threats and opportunities rather than
taking advantage of them. Instead of looking ahead to judge
which parts of the company were best-positioned to prosper in
the future, Union Carbide saw itself as a chemical producer
with other, expendable business units tacked on.
   In the early 1980s, Union Carbide was big, rich and
muscular. Its chemical division competed head-to-head with
the best in the business. And whenever chemical sales
softened, it flexed its market muscle in consumer and
industrial products. Its consumer division -- Eveready
batteries, Glad plastic bags and Prestone antifreeze -- alone
earned more some years than the chemical or plastics
operations of several rivals.
   Then, on the night of Dec. 3, 1984, a deadly cloud of
methyl isocyanate gas seeped from a Union Carbide pesticide
plant in Bhopal, India. More than 3,000 died and another
20,000 were seriously injured. While the company has
maintained that a disgruntled employee sabotaged the plant,
it has accepted "moral responsibility" for the accident from
the start. It also settled all civil claims for $470 million.
   Before Bhopal, Union Carbide's strategic plan was simple:
Keep the consumer, industrial and chemical units in balance.
After all, it was a combination of those basic units that
originally formed the Union Carbide conglomerate in 1917. But
Bhopal blew the simple plan apart. In its place Union Carbide
has followed a patchwork set of responses to external events.
Its latest plan, to spin off its $2.4 billion Linde gases
business to shareholders by midyear, will leave the company
almost totally dependent on its cyclically depressed chemical
and plastics business.
   As a stand-alone chemical producer, Union Carbide will be
a $4.9 billion-a-year domestic company, half its size prior
to Bhopal. At least five global chemical makers will be much
larger, with domestic rivals Du Pont Co. and Dow Chemical Co.
more than three times as large, leaving Union Carbide at a
distinct disadvantage in competing for international
contracts.
   As a result, Union Carbide faces the threat of being
forced into a takeover or merger with a stronger partner. "I
wouldn't be surprised to see the name Union Carbide disappear
as a public company in a few years," says Paul Leming, a
Kidder, Peabody  Co. securities analyst.
   Robert D. Kennedy, Union Carbide's chairman and chief
executive officer, is confident the chemical company and the
gases business can survive separate and independent. "These
are quite different businesses. We determined that the best
way for them to operate is independently," he says.
   For Union Carbide, the first test of its ability to
withstand Bhopal's effects came just months after the
tragedy. With its stock price depressed by liability
uncertainty, it attracted a junk-bond-financed takeover bid
from GAF Corp., a small specialty chemical company. Union
Carbide's response set the overwhelmingly defensive tone of
its post-Bhopal strategy.
   Union Carbide fought off the bid by buying back 56% of its
stock -- thus saddling itself with $3.3 billion of new debt.
And to ward off other suitors, it sold the highly profitable
consumer-products businesses, distributing the proceeds as a
special dividend.
   Mr. Kennedy, who was president of the chemicals division
at the time, and other Union Carbide executives say they
believed that if Union Carbide were to be broken up, as GAF
proposed, the benefits should go to Union Carbide
shareholders, not to GAF. Mr. Kennedy also says Union Carbide
hadn't any alternative to some sort of breakup because GAF's
all-cash bid "put a gun to our heads."
   Mr. Kennedy became Union Carbide's chairman and chief
executive in 1986. He and other executives say they handled
the one-two blow of the Bhopal disaster and the GAF attack as
well as they could. "I might wish we still had batteries, but
we don't. We have to deal with that," says Mr. Kennedy.
   The crushing post-GAF debt load put Union Carbide at a
huge disadvantage in the rapidly evolving chemical industry
during the latter half of the 1980s. It couldn't afford to
follow rivals that were diversifying into other profitable
businesses, rivals like Monsanto Co., which bought drug maker
G.D. Searle Co. and its NutraSweet artificial sweetener, or
like Dow Chemical, which bought a controlling interest in
Marion Laboratories to form the drug company Marion Merrell
Dow Inc.
   Union Carbide's debt, which peaked at about 80% of
capitalization in 1986, still hovers at just over 50% of
capitalization. Following the planned sale of $500 million in
assets, mainly among its specialty chemical businesses, debt
will be reduced to about 37% -- still slightly above
pre-Bhopal levels.
   Being thrown on the defensive by the accident helped
further insulate Union Carbide's culture. One way that Mr.
Kennedy, an affable life-time "Carbider," helped keep
defections to a minimum after Bhopal and GAF was by favoring
a consensus management style. Senior-level committees,
including the 12-member president's council, were rejuvenated
and given expanded policy-making roles.
   That focus on looking inward and rallying the troops came
at the expense of keeping close tabs on the changing
competitive landscape. For instance, Union Carbide often
touts its low-cost Unipol method of making polyethylene
plastic. But the company's own higher-than-average
distribution costs eat up much of its cost advantage by the
time the plastic is delivered to the customer, a Union
Carbide insider says. Mr. Kennedy concedes that distribution
costs are too high and is trying to cut those costs.
   By some accounts, Union Carbide officials focused on their
strengths in particular areas without realizing that the
overall company was slipping. "As recently as a year and a
half ago, a lot of people here didn't think Carbide had a
problem," even though it was clear the entire industry was
heading into a sharp downturn, the Union Carbide insider
says. Mr. Kennedy says he has known for years that the
company had problems. "Carbide has never worked as a
conglomerate," he said last December, when the plan to spin
off of gases was announced.
   The company's insular, go-it-alone bent led to another
missed opportunity. In early 1990, directors passed on a
chance to sell to a Japanese chemical company, at a hefty
premium to market value, about 15% of its chemicals business,
say investment bankers familiar with the proposal. It also
rejected proposals that included selling its gases business
to the public. Mr. Kennedy says the board decided "the time
wasn't right" for such moves. He declines to comment on the
specifics of the proposals.
   Since then, chemical industry profits have collapsed and
Japanese chemical makers have retreated from expansion plans
aimed at the U.S. market.
   With chemical profits today at sharply depressed levels,
loss of the consumer businesses is especially painful. Since
its early days as the developer of the first commercial
dry-cell battery, Union Carbide had always had consumer
products to help offset cyclical downturns in chemicals.
Operating income last year just from Union Carbide's former
battery business, now owned by Ralston Purina Co., totaled
about $180 million, analysts estimate. (Ralston Purina won't
comment.)
   Meanwhile, seeking to boost its performance, Union Carbide
has embarked on a sweeping plan to cut costs by $400 million
a year by the end of 1994. The chemical and gases operations
already have cut about 5,500 jobs, or 15% of their combined
payroll. After the spinoff of gases, the chemical company
will cut another 2,000 to 3,000 jobs. Union Carbide took a
$121 million third-quarter charge relating to the cost
cutting plan, in addition to the fourth quarter charge
announced yesterday.
   Mr. Kennedy, 59 years old, says his biggest error at the
Union Carbide helm was not starting to trim costs in the late
1980s, when chemical profits temporarily surged to record
levels. At the time of the GAF bid, for example, Union
Carbide laid off more than 4,000 employees. But by 1988, that
number of employees and then some had been hired back at
facilities around the country as demand, and profits, soared.
At year-end 1990, Union Carbide had 37,756 employees.
   Costs also soared as Union Carbide, responding to concerns
triggered by Bhopal, spent heavily on safety. It piled on
supervisory steps at the plant level. Mr. Kennedy concedes
that rivals have produced roughly equivalent safety levels at
their plants at a fraction of Carbide's costs.
   Replacing an industrial pump seal, for instance, ought to
be a simple procedure. But Carbide turned it into a three- or
four-hour job through an 11-step process that included
multiple reporting procedures, says Billy Powell, a
production technician in the acrylics unit at the company's
Taft complex near New Orleans.
   Consultants estimate Union Carbide could save $15 million
to $20 million a year at Taft alone by tightening such
maintenance practices. Mr. Powell says that after a pilot
program to overhaul maintenance was started at the Taft site,
replacing a pump seal "now takes 30 minutes."
   Bhopal's effect on Union Carbide's proud culture was also
swift and deep. At the time of the disaster, Robert Perry was
a vice president in Toronto. For several weeks after Bhopal,
whenever he crossed the U.S.-Canadian border, customs
officials quizzed him about what Union Carbide had done. So
for a while "I quit admitting who I worked for" on customs
forms, he says. An associate, a district supervisor in
Canada, stopped jogging in a Carbide warm-up jacket. "He said
he was ashamed to wear it," Mr. Perry recalls.
   The result: a long-lasting impact on morale and
productivity. Union Carbide's pretax profit per employee was
just $16,700 in 1990, 59% less than industry leader Dow
Chemical's $41,200 per employee, says Fred Siemer, an analyst
with Chemical Research for Wall Street. Certainly, not all of
that problem can be attributed to Bhopal-indeed, Union
Carbide also significantly trailed Dow prior to Bhopal. But
it's notable that even though Carbide's total employment
dropped steeply between 1985 and 1991, its productivity
remained rock bottom among major chemical companies.
   Union Carbide employees admit they're still haunted by
Bhopal. Says Mr. Perry: "I still have a hard time reconciling
my pride in the company and what happened in Bhopal. It just
doesn't compute."