Kaye Scholer Faces Civil Liability Suit
   For Losses At Lincoln; Assets Are Frozen
   ----
   By Paulette Thomas
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
"The allegations are that (Kaye Scholer) placed itself
between the client and the agency on matters of fact," said
Harris Weinstein, chief legal counsel for the thrift office.
"These are no new theories of lawyer liability."
   Under the 1989 SL bailout law, thrift regulators have the
authority to freeze assets in such cases to ensure that it
can recoup taxpayer losses if it is successful in court. In a
cease and desist order, the government barred the firm from
selling or transferring corporate assets other than those
transactions necessary to conduct routine business.
   The firm, which said it will seek a hearing to contest the
asset freeze, asserted that the freeze will have no effect on
its business in the meantime.
   Three partners of the 350-member law firm also were named
in the suit, and the thrift office froze their personal
assets as well. The three are Peter M. Fishbein, a former
managing partner for the firm, and Karen E. Katzman and Lynn
Toby Fisher, both of whom worked for Kaye Scholer on behalf
of Lincoln. The thrift office also alleged that Ms. Fisher
received a $675,000 mortgage loan on favorable terms.
   The $275 million represents "a conservative estimate of
losses to Lincoln that would have been avoided," Mr.
Weinstein said. The thrift office also is seeking to ban Kaye
Scholer from future work on behalf of banks, thrifts and
credit unions.
   Kaye Scholer earned $13 million representing Lincoln and
its parent company in Irvine, Calif., American Continental
Corp., between 1985 and 1989, the year Lincoln was seized by
the government. In 1990, the law firm paid $20 million to
settle charges by stock and bondholders of American
Continental that they experienced losses due to false
financial statements filed by Lincoln.
   Kaye Scholer vigorously denied the charges, and has
retained Gary Lynch, former chief of enforcement for the
Securities and Exchange Commission, to defend it and its
partners.
   Mr. Lynch contends that the thrift office charges, if
successful, could fundamentally alter the relationship
between lawyers and clients. Kaye Scholer, he said, had been
retained as litigation counsel to fight government findings
in an exam disputed by the thrift. "Kaye Scholer was retained
to represent Lincoln, and as any law firm would do in that
context, made arguments on its behalf to the OTS," he said.
   The firm didn't make false representations to the agency,
Mr. Lynch said. As for withholding information from the
agency, Mr. Lynch said that the government knew that Lincoln
was engaged in certain actions, such as back-dating files, by
the time the law firm was retained. "We weren't hiding
anything from them," he said. "We were trying to marshal
their best arguments."
   Charles H. Keating Jr., chairman of Lincoln's one-time
parent company, American Continental, was convicted of
securities fraud in state court in California last year. He
also faces wider federal bank fraud charges.
   Also last year, the Resolution Trust Corp. sued Jones,
Day, Reavis  Pogue, a Cleveland law firm, seeking $50
million for losses it said stemmed from its work for Lincoln.
A court date hasn't been set.