Marketing  Media:
   Domino's to Deliver
   Additional Cheese,
   Toppings on Pizzas
   ---
   Move to Fend Off Inroads
   By PepsiCo Unit Means
   Prices Will Rise as Well
   ----
   By Neal Templin
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Just last month, Thomas S. Monaghan, Domino's chairman and
owner, reasserted control of his company by ousting President
David Black, whom he had named to the post two years earlier.
However, the new pizza was planned before the mercurial Mr.
Monaghan, age 54, reassumed command, a company spokesman
said.
   The closely held company has annual revenue of about $1
billion and overall "system" sales -- including franchises --
of about $2.6 billion. By contrast, Pizza Hut said its
delivery business amounts to about $1.6 billion.
   Domino's new pizza will have 45% more cheese than the
company's current pizza and a thicker crust, a company
spokesman said. It also will get more pepperoni and bigger
chunks of meat, sausage and other toppings. The Domino's
advertising campaign, mainly consisting of TV ads, will
boast: "More melted cheese; bigger, better toppings; tender,
tastier crust."
   Domino's is less likely to brag about the resulting higher
price. The average pizza will cost about 7% more as a result
of the extra ingredients. That will lift the price of the
average Domino's pizza, currently $7.84 including discounts,
by about 50 cents. The price increase is "a calculated
gamble" that could alienate customers, said Ralph Rush of
Technomic Inc., a Chicago-based food consulting firm.
   That's because other fast-food restaurants have been
slashing prices to attract customers. Taco Bell, another
Pepsi unit, popularized this strategy in 1988 when it cut the
price of tacos and other items to 59 cents. Last year,
McDonald's Corp. adopted a similar strategy in many markets,
featuring low-priced hamburgers, cheeseburgers and sausage
biscuits.
   However, Domino's says its new pizza was a big hit in
Minneapolis, Los Angeles and Atlanta, where it has been
test-marketed for six months. The switch was "driven by
consumer research," said the spokesman. "People felt we had a
quality pizza, but it wasn't markedly different than anyone
else's."
   Most Domino's franchisees are applauding the switch to a
premium pizza, said Glenn Mueller, president of RPM Pizza,
which operates 268 stores in eight states. "I think we can
win back some business that left us because they weren't
happy with the quality of the product," he said.
   Pizza Hut said it isn't worried. "Pizza Hut has held a
quality position in our category, and we intend to hold it
tomorrow and in the future," a spokesman said.
   RPM is planning to raise prices by less than 7% on the new
pizza, Mr. Mueller said. RPM hasn't raised its prices in the
Detroit area for three years because of fierce competition
from a variety of companies including Detroit-based Little
Caesar's Enterprises Inc., which specializes in low-priced
carry-out pizza.
   Domino's is planning a new discounting strategy to counter
Little Caesar's. A company spokesman, however, declined to
give details.
   More changes are coming at Domino's. Its pan pizza --
which was supposed to combat Pizza Hut's popular product --
hasn't caught on with consumers, so the company is working on
a new pan pizza. "A lot of people don't like it, and that's
why we're changing it," the spokesman said.