Is It Any Surprise
   The Japanese Make
   Excellent Loafers?
   ---
   Well, Yes, Given the Hours
   They Work; but Resting
   On the Job Is a Specialty
   ----
   By Urban C. Lehner
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
For some reason, they don't seem eager to discuss laziness
in America with an inquiring reporter. "Uh, I just dropped in
to see what the others are doing," says a middle-aged man
carrying a briefcase, bolting from a second-floor video-game
shop. Another middle-aged man in a suit, asked if he has a
job, barks "No]" and beats a retreat.
   Up on the fourth floor, 50 men in business dress sit at 25
tables playing the board game Go, while several others stand
in the doorways watching the action or waiting their turn.
One kibitzer, a 55-year-old auto-parts salesman, says he
often visits Go parlors between appointments. "Wasn't it
Keynes or some American economist who said it's better for
efficiency if you take a couple of hours of rest in the
middle of the day instead of working for eight or nine hours
straight?" he asks. On the chance that his boss may feel
differently about efficiency, he declines to give his name.
   The average Japanese worker spends 2,100 hours on the job
annually, compared with only 1,900 for the average American
and 1,500 for the average German. But some Japanese people
clearly don't spend all 2,100 of those hours working. If they
did, Japan's bankruptcy courts would be littered with the
wreckage of pachinko parlors and other businesses that depend
heavily on the patronage of truants. Even when they're in the
office, some white-collar Japanese workers seem to spend an
inordinate amount of time reading newspapers or chatting with
their friends.
   Fiddling around during working hours is a venerable
tradition in Japan. A Tokyo woman who worked as a newscaster
in the early 1970s recalls that her station kept a blackboard
listing which journalists were not at their desks and why.
The reasons included shuzai (reporting) and shucho (business
trip), but the most popular designation, she says, was
uchiawase -- a conveniently vague word that literally means
an appointment but is broad enough to cover anything from
running an errand to taking in a movie.
   Japanese people work because they have to, or out of a
sense of loyalty to their company. In a poll conducted last
year by the Chubu Productivity Center, 11% of the Japanese
respondents said they would rather not work, a preference
shared by only 4% of the American respondents.
   In Japan, people work long hours when they have a crash
project to finish, or because they need the overtime pay, or
because of social pressure. They hesitate to leave when
others, particularly the boss, are staying late. Their work
and family culture is built around the idea that men return
home late -- but they can't afford to go drinking with
colleagues every night, so they hang around the office until
all hours.
   Some also complain that they're trapped in a vicious
circle: Because they put in such long hours, they can't work
flat out all day long, but because they don't work flat out
they need to put in long hours. "If we stopped loafing and
worked seriously during the day, we could leave at closing
time," declares Yasuhiro Kobayashi, an editorial writer for
the Asahi Shimbun newspaper, who confesses to sneaking out to
a coffee shop on occasion.
   Eager to promote daytime trade, some businesses appeal to
the mixture of self-pity and pride that many Japanese feel
about their hard work. "Rest for overworked you," reads an
advertisement for the New Central Hotel in Tokyo's Kanda
district, which offers "daytime service" from 10 a.m. to 4
p.m. The hotel rents single rooms for two hours for the
equivalent of $17.69, double rooms for about twice that
amount. Takeru Takahashi, the hotel's manager, says that
during the annual high-school baseball tournament in August,
some businessmen steal away from work and rent rooms to watch
the games on television.
   Despite the "you deserve it" advertising, most Japanese
truants don't seriously attempt to justify their behavior.
Rather, they look at it as the equivalent of crossing against
a red light -- something they feel they can get away with if
everyone else is doing it.
   In Japanese factories, needless to say, there are many
fewer opportunities for slacking off. A Japanese factory
worker rarely finds himself with a second between tasks to
catch his breath; the time-study engineers usually find the
second first.
   But fields like sales and financial services have managed
to keep the time-study engineers at bay. Standing outside a
video-game arcade in the New Shimbashi building, Yuji
Hayakawa, a 25-year-old stockbroker, says he has a quota to
meet and when he meets it, he often retreats to a coffee shop
to read. So are Americans lazy? "I have never seen an
American stockbroker working, but my impression is that we
play around more than they do," Mr. Hayakawa says.
   Recently, articles about frittering away time have started
to pop up in the Japanese press. The Yomiuri Shimbun, Japan's
largest daily paper, even coined a term for it: yukyu sabori,
or getting paid for truancy.
   These articles have a long way to go, however, before they
catch up with the spate of stories about karoshi. That means
death from overwork.