L'Affaire Clinton:
   A Press Scandal,
   Not a Sex Scandal
   ----
   By Albert R. Hunt
This story, from a dubious source who was paid money by a
thoroughly disreputable paper, has dominated the Clinton
campaign. The other day, the Democratic front-runner spent
four hours here huddled in private strategy sessions over how
to handle this latest blast. Then last night he and his wife,
Hillary, made a dramatic appearance on CBS's top-rated "60
Minutes" TV program in front of a huge post-Super Bowl
audience.
   In the process, this shabby accusation has distorted and
contaminated not only the political system but the judgment
of some in the news media. Personal and political morality
have been confused, as has the critical distinction between
reputable and disreputable sources.
   Let's certify this up front: Bill Clinton has had
extramarital affairs. Any reporter who has done any research
knows it, and the average voter doesn't have to be a rocket
scientist to figure it out. Even before his "60 Minutes"
appearance, Gov. Clinton's response, when asked about
infidelity, was that he and his wife have had their share of
problems, but that they now are fully committed to each
other.
   That should have been sufficient, since no one could doubt
he was acknowledging previous indiscretions. There are at
least four conditions that would make more information
pertinent about a would-be president:
   One, if the candidate lies.
   Two, if it's a contemporaneous situation. Gary Hart got
what he deserved: Under today's rules, anyone carrying on an
affair during a campaign lacks the judgment and discipline to
be president.
   Three, if any extramarital sexual relationships directly
affect a politician's public life or governing decisions.
   And four, if there's blatant hypocrisy involved. Any
candidate who's running on a platform of restoring morality
in America had better be pretty pure -- just as there's a
greater burden on defense hawks to explain a lack of military
service, or pro-busing liberals to explain sending their kids
to private schools.
   If any of these conditions apply to Bill Clinton, he
shouldn't be in the race. But from what we know so far, none
of them do.
   Yeah, some feminists say, but it tells a lot about a
politician's attitude toward women. A much better guide is
how he governs on issues that are important to women, and
what kind of appointments he has made. Betsey Wright or
Gloria Cabeboth of whom served both as chiefs of staff and
campaign chiefs to Mr. Clinton -- or Carol Rosco, his top
gubernatorial aide today, would be better sources for this
question than Gennifer Flowers. Otherwise, we confuse
personal character and political character.
   Even if one wants to apply more rigid criteria to this
latest allegation, it remains a travesty. A year ago, the
same Ms. Flowers who is making these charges had her attorney
threaten a Little Rock radio station with a lawsuit because
one of its disc jockeys "wrongfully and untruthfully" alleged
that she had had an affair with Bill Clinton.
   What transpired since then? The Star offered her money
with estimates ranging from $50,000 to $200,000. (A lawyer
saying he represented Ms. Flowers told the NBC TV network
that his client might be willing to talk for $100,000.)
   The Star believes in checkbook journalism if the story is
saucy and salacious; it's indifferent to truth and accuracy.
Yet this paper set the agenda for the Clinton story.
Thursday, for instance, ABC's "Nightline" devoted an entire
edition to the charges of infidelity against Gov. Clinton.
   Usually, "Nightline" is the crown jewel of the television
networks' public affairs programs, and anchorman Ted Koppel
is one of the great journalists of our age. But the
underlying premise of this influential program was that the
Clinton allegation was a serious charge from a serious
source. Efforts by two of the guests, one a Clinton
consultant and the other an author of a book on media
overkill on scandals, were overwhelmed by the seriousness
with which the topic was treated.
   At one point, Mr. Koppel declared that Mr. Clinton "has
given waffling answers" about marital infidelity. What's he
supposed to do -- provide names, dates and techniques? On
another occasion, Mr. Koppel asked whether, if President Bush
held a news conference to denounce Ted Koppel a pedophile and
drug dealer, news organizations should carry the story. Of
course they should. But does a journalistically despicable,
sensationalism-seeking tabloid deserve the same credibility
and respect as a source as does the president of the United
States?
   There are lots of real questions about Mr. Clinton as a
potential president. He sometimes seems to have more plans
and programs than vision. And as Joe Klein wrote in an
excellent piece in New York magazine, there's a question of
what's at the core of this very smart and ambitious man.
There may even be other types of personal incidents in his
past that are worthy of closer scrutiny.
   But if Bill Clinton is driven out of this race by a
sordid, sleazy story about an alleged sexual affair, it will
hurt American politics and presidential elections for years
to come.
   ---
   Mr. Hunt is chief of the Journal's Washington bureau.