Goldman's in the Construction Business?
   ----
   By Randall Smith
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Now Goldman's controversial "vulture" investing fund, the
Water Street Corporate Recovery Fund, has emerged as one of
the biggest investors in the junk bonds of the same two
troubled companies.
   In a massive bet, Goldman plowed 21% of the fund's $1.15
billion value into the depressed bonds of the two companies.
Pending restructuring proposals could give the Goldman fund
an equity stake of 25% or more in both National Gypsum and
USG, which hold a combined 61% share of the domestic gypsum
market.
   Too much debt isn't the only problem for the two gypsum
companies. Their primary product, gypsum wallboard, has hit
the skids as the U.S. real-estate slump has slashed new
construction. Wallboard prices have slumped 44% from their
peak in 1986. Both National Gypsum, of Dallas, and USG, of
Chicago, also are wrestling with asbestos liabilities, which
cloud their restructurings.
   Goldman's Water Street fund is no stranger to controversy.
Last year, Goldman announced plans to gradually liquidate the
Water Street fund because of client protests over the fund's
aggressive tactics. Two of Water Street's top managers have
left Goldman to found a new independent vulture fund, South
Street Corporate Recovery Fund, to invest in the bonds of
troubled companies.
   But Water Street's big gypsum play has kept Goldman at
loggerheads with some big money managers who buy and sell
junk bonds through Goldman.
   In National Gypsum and some other restructurings, Goldman
"is acting in hostile and predatory fashion against other
bondholders," claims creditor attorney Robert Miller, who
represents bondholders in yet another restructuring fight
with the Water Street fund involving Insilco Corp.
   Water Street's strategy has been to take large positions
in a troubled company's junk bonds that often allow Goldman
to dominate any restructuring deal in which creditors swap
their debt for ownership in the company. A Goldman spokesman
says the Water Street fund aims "to help good companies
restructure their balance sheets on a sound basis. We're
doing what we said we would do."
   The Goldman spokesman adds that "any inference that
Goldman would try to control" both National Gypsum and USG
"is totally preposterous" because the fund doesn't want to
control individual companies.
   Even before National Gypsum is restructured, Goldman has
done well with those bonds. They now trade at 70% of face
value, indicating Goldman has doubled its investment of about
$30 million.
   Not so for Goldman's much larger investment in USG, whose
bond prices have slumped in the past year and a half as
restructuring talks have dragged on. As of Nov. 26, the Water
Street fund held $491 million face value of USG bonds that
were valued at $192.7 million in the open market, including
half of a $600 million issue that would gain 60% of USG's
equity under a management-led restructuring plan.
   Though Goldman hasn't disclosed the price it paid for
those bonds, USG bond prices "have gone absolutely nowhere --
if anything, down" since Goldman bought its bonds, says Mark
Connelly, who follows building materials for the securities
unit of J.P. Morgan  Co.
   Goldman advised USG on a $2.5 billion recapitalization in
1988 when USG was trying to avoid a hostile takeover threat.
However, one bond analyst believes the Water Street fund
overestimated the values and invested too heavily in USG's
junior -- or junk -- bonds.
   Still, Ralph Hellmold, an investment banker who advises
USG's junior-bond holders, says Goldman is "clearly the
800-pound gorilla; they will clearly end up as a major equity
holder" in USG. In recent days, USG bond prices have risen
slightly on rumors of a debt-restructuring accord.
   The fight among National Gypsum's creditors has been
rougher. In 1986, Goldman organized a $1.6 billion leveraged
buy-out of National Gypsum, which gave a 44% equity stake to
Goldman and its clients, 37% to French cement company Lafarge
Coppee S.A., and 19% to management. In 1988, Lafarge boosted
its stake to 51%, reducing Goldman's stake to 5%.
   On Oct. 28, 1990, debt-laden National Gypsum filed for
bankruptcy-law protection. The Goldman vulture fund quickly
scooped up over one-third of National Gypsum's $300 million
in senior junk bonds, which rank highest among the company's
junk bonds. In the post-bankruptcy confusion, Goldman was
able to acquire those bonds for prices between 30% and 40% of
face value. (An additional $700 million of National Gypsum's
junior bonds are also outstanding.)
   Now, a year later, National Gypsum management has proposed
a plan giving senior-bond holders -- of which Goldman is the
biggest -- a 73% equity stake and junior-bond holders only
25%. The management plan values the company at $350 million.
But junior-bond holders, arguing the company is worth $630
million partly because of their bullish outlook for gypsum
prices in the next few years, say they should get 40% to 100%
of the equity.
   Last month, Goldman and another money manager formed a
group of senior-bond holders that backed the management debt
restructuring plan, which junior-bond holders bitterly
opposed.
   "It's not fair," says Phillip Siegel, vice president of
Presidential Life Insurance Co. in Nyack, N.Y., which owns
junior National Gypsum bonds. He complains that in buying its
big junk-bond stake, "Goldman had a lot more information in
this situation" because of its earlier investment banking
work -- and its equity stake -- in National Gypsum.
   Goldman, however, says it didn't have any nonpublic
information by the time the Water Street fund bought the
gypsum companies' bonds. Its investment banking work for both
companies had ended more than two years earlier, in 1988.
   The Goldman spokesman notes that in debt restructurings,
"by nature everybody fights and there's contention when
companies don't have enough money to meet all their
obligations." But because Goldman represents investors in the
Water Street fund, "we can't just roll over and play dead" in
the face of attacks by other bondholders, he says.
   In addition, some junior-bond holders claim that National
Gypsum managers may have acted to reduce current profit by
keeping costs high and selling gypsum wallboard at
rock-bottom prices. They say a low valuation could help
National Gypsum's management emerge from bankruptcy with new
low-priced stock options and help senior-bond holders like
Goldman gain the lion's share of new equity.
   Ken Bann, a debt analyst at Bear, Stearns  Co., which
owns some junior bonds, noted that National Gypsum's profit
margins have declined more than USG's since late 1990. A
spokesman for USG contends that National Gypsum indeed has
sold wallboard below cost in some instances, apparently to
keep volume up.
   National Gypsum Chairman Peter Browning says management
has cut costs and denies any effort to reduce profit
intentionally or sell below cost. Michael Conaway, the
company's chief financial officer, says National Gypsum aims
to reduce its risk of post-bankruptcy financial problems,
indicating management is eager to minimize its future debts.
He cautions that the outlook for a pickup in wallboard demand
"is not good" because of still-high commercial vacancy rates
and the expectation that housing demand won't return to the
feverish level of the 1980s. He warns of a huge oversupply of
wallboard.
   Some junior-bond holders believe Lafarge, which stands to
lose most of its 51% equity stake in any restructuring, wants
to make a new equity investment to regain control of National
Gypsum once it emerges from bankruptcy. They figure Goldman
and other senior-bond holders would be happy to sell to
Lafarge -- all the more so since Goldman might have to unload
one of its two big gypsum stakes to avoid potential antitrust
problems. Many experts think Goldman could get around the
problem by selling the bonds in one of the companies or
distributing them to the fund's investors.
   Bernard Casriel, a managing director of Lafarge, says his
company has "no idea" whether it wants to invest more money
in National Gypsum. But he acknowledged that Lafarge was
prepared to invest an additional $100 million before National
Gypsum's bankruptcy-law filing in 1990.