Look to Canada for a Better IRA
   ----
   By M. Kathryn Eickhoff
Why was the saving incentive reduced? The Treasury has
argued that the funds in IRAs were simply being shifted from
other investments to take advantage of the tax benefit. No
new pools of savings were being formed. To the extent that
this was true, it would have been a short-term problem. In
time, the available pools would be depleted, requiring new
saving in order to obtain the tax benefit. More important,
the flat $2,000 per year limit on contributions to IRAs from
1982 to 1986 was too small. It did not provide an incentive
for families to save more.
   Rather than continue debating the brief U.S. experience
with IRAs, it is more useful to turn to Canada, which has had
an IRA-like program in place since 1957.
   The Canadian Registered Retirement Savings Plan (RRSP)
allows tax-free contributions to an RRSP account of up to 18%
of "earned income," not to exceed 11,500 Canadian dollars
(C$12,500 in 1992), per individual. Contributions by
participants in company pension plans are limited to C$5,500.
The average individual contribution in 1990 was C$2,781.
Withdrawals can be made at any time, subject to a withholding
tax ranging from 10% to 30%, depending on the amount
withdrawn. At tax time, the withdrawal is treated as normal
income. There are no additional penalties for early
withdrawal or restrictions on use. Granting the exemption
only for "earned income" disallows interest and dividends on
investments and rental income, categories of income in which
saving rates are thought to be high and incentives
unnecessary.
   Participation in the Canadian plan expanded rapidly
between 1970 and 1980, a period when inflation helped cause
disposable personal income almost to quadruple, putting many
Canadians into the 40% tax bracket. The results were
dramatic. The Canadian personal saving rate, 3.5% shortly
after the program was enacted in the late 1950s, reached
13.3% in 1980. Between 1980 and 1990, inflation slowed and
disposable income grew more slowly too, but the personal
saving rate dropped only to 11%. Even so, annual
contributions to RRSPs hit C$11.2 billion in 1990; total
assets held in RRSPs were worth C$107 billion.
   Canadians are expected to continue to put a growing share
of their savings into RRSPs, but not all the credit should go
to the RRSP incentives. Disincentives elsewhere have
encouraged participation in RRSPs. Canadian pension funds are
very conservatively managed. Their market value has grown
very slowly and in 1990 exceeded book value by less than 10%.
Additionally, the Canadian and provincial social security
programs are underfunded and are expected to be quite
strained when the baby boom generation reaches retirement
age. Both of these uncertainties create a clear need to make
other provisions for one's old age via the RRSP.
   The same incentives do not exist here in the U.S. American
taxpayers face a flatter income tax schedule, and, for now,
the Social Security system is in good financial shape.
Deductibility of mortgage interest is a saving incentive in
the U.S. tax law not present in the Canadian tax code. Even
so, the Canadian results are dramatic.
   The Canadian example makes it clear that a program to
encourage saving and investment should:
   -- Be large enough to work. Although for budget reasons an
expanded IRA program may have to start small, it should
escalate to at least 15% of "earned income" for those not
covered by company pension plans. This would bring the IRA
limits into line with existing limits of 15% on individual
self-employed retirement plans. Later both programs might be
raised to the 25% allowable for combined defined benefits and
defined contribution plans at corporations.
   -- Exclude interest on capital, including rents. This will
ensure that new savings are formed.
   -- Not penalize withdrawal of funds before retirement for
productive investment. Investment in starting a business,
obtaining a college education, or improving a home all
contribute to economic growth and productivity.
   -- Tax withdrawn funds at normal rates if they are not
used for investment purposes. There should be no penalty for
early withdrawal beyond normal taxation.
   Finally, in order to further encourage the formation of
new savings and to keep the exemption fair, limits on the
amount of the contribution could include a sliding scale
minimum and maximum contribution to be eligible, depending on
earned income. A household with earned income of $30,000 and
no other pension plan initially might receive the deduction
on the first $2,000 of savings; a household with income of
$60,000 might be able to deduct amounts saved over $2,000 up
to some upper limit. At an income of $100,000, only savings
over $5,000 might be eligible for the credit. In other words,
the deduction could be limited as we now do with medical
expenses. Individuals covered by a company pension plan might
have their deduction capped, as in the Canadian plan.
   Increases in the allowed deductions might be tied to
budget declines to guarantee that there is a net increase in
saving. Certainly the U.S. must recognize its budget
constraints. However, if the disincentives to save remain as
great as they today, the U.S. government may never escape its
budget constraints.
   Personal saving is an important part of the
saving-investment-growth equation, because they reflect the
attitude toward time of the whole society. Companies are run
by people whose attitudes toward saving will determine the
companies' investment policies and short-term versus longterm
priorities. An expanded program of savings incentives, in
which the IRA is only the first step, would help pave the way
on the long road back to the future.
   ---
   Ms. Eickhoff is president of an economic consulting firm
in New York.