Law -- Legal Beat:
   Phone Records Sought of Reporter
   In GM Tax-Return Data Disclosure
   ----
   By Junda Woo and Bob Hagerty
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
Mr. Millman wrote a September article citing internal IRS
documents that allegedly show that the agency failed to
collect certain back taxes from General Motors Corp. It is a
violation of federal law for a government employee to
disclose tax-return information. Two Treasury agents visited
Mr. Millman's home in November, but Mr. Millman refused to
disclose the identities of his sources, according to
Corporate Finance. Mr. Millman couldn't be reached for
comment.
   The subpoena, scheduled to go to the telephone company
tomorrow, according to Corporate Finance, is being challenged
by the magazine's publisher, Financial World Partners.
Telephone companies whose records are subpoenaed typically
notify the subscriber, who then has an opportunity to try to
quash the subpoena. However, said Jane Kirtley of the
Reporters Committee for Freedom of the Press, such grand-jury
subpoenas typically are extremely difficult to block.
   An IRS spokesman said he was unaware of the case and
unable to comment. A Justice Department spokeswoman also
declined to comment.
   Last year, Procter  Gamble Co. got Cincinnati police to
search Cincinnati Bell's telephone records of calls to a Wall
Street Journal reporter. The Journal reporter was not given
notice before the telephone company produced the records.
According to PG, the investigation was eventually dropped.
   ---
   MORE UNIFORMITY URGED in civil-law procedures, damages
awards in the EC.
   A plea for such an approach is made in a report by London
solicitors Davies Arnold Cooper and the firm also calls for
European guidelines in such areas as court costs and legal
aid.
   The current hodgepodge results in uneven access to justice
for citizens of European Community countries, Davies Arnold
asserts, adding: "There is no point in having Euro-juices or
Euro-jams or Euro-motorbikes without Euro-civil procedures
and Euro-levels of compensation." In one reflection of the
nations' differences, the average wait between filing a civil
suit and receiving a court judgment ranges from six months in
Germany to 42 months in Italy, the report says.
   The countries' varying procedures in part account for the
wide disparities in the number of lawyers each nation relies
on to conduct its legal business. Davies Arnold finds that
the density of lawyers ranges from two per 1,000 residents in
Greece to 1.1 in England, 0.8 in Germany and 0.5 in France.
In the U.S., the figure is roughly three attorneys per 1,000
residents.
   The report notes that some countries have fewer lawyers
partly because they let other professionals do certain
routine legal work. In any case, the report says: "We are not
aware of any general feeling that the more lawyers the better
the quality of justice."
   For U.S. companies doing business in Europe, the
variations create some problems, although U.S. lawyers say
these aren't much worse than those facing companies doing
business in a number of different U.S. states. However, Clyde
Rankin, a partner at Coudert Brothers in New York, says a
uniform European civil procedure would save time and money
for U.S.-based clients.
   A spokesman for Karel Van Miert, the EC commissioner
responsible for consumer affairs, says the commission is
aware of the problem of incompatible legal systems but
cautious about how much can be done to solve it. The
community considers justice to be mainly the responsibility
of individual member states.
   ---
   ENVIRONMENTAL LAW course is made a requirement for
first-year students.
   All 160 first-year law students at the T.C. Williams
School of Law at the University of Richmond, Va., this month
began the semester-long course on environmental law. The
course joins traditional first-year law student staples:
property, torts, contracts, civil procedure, criminal and
constitutional law.
   The environmental law course aims to teach students about
the regulatory aspects of legal work. While a few other
schools teach regulatory law in the first year, the
University of Richmond is believed to be the first school to
require a course focusing exclusively on the environmental
field.
   "Environmental law touches on everything," said Joseph
Harbaugh, the dean of the law school. "Even if the practice
is a small firm in suburban Virginia, they have to be
concerned about environmental law if they're doing
real-estate work."
   Professor Michael Allan Wolf, who co-teaches the course,
said he thinks students will find it easier to grasp
environmental law than other regulatory areas, such as
taxation.
   "It's more modern," said Prof. Wolf, who is co-author of a
standard law school text on land-use planning. But he added:
"We're not doing this because it's trendy."
   ---
   ONE MILLION LAWYERS will be available in the U.S. by the
year 2000, the American Bar Association says. The nation's
biggest lawyer organization expects a 34% increase in
attorneys this decade, up from 748,028 in 1990. "I suppose
it's market-driven," said Dick Collins, a spokesman for the
ABA. He noted an expected surge in environmental and
civil-rights law. Also on the rise: the paralegal industry,
which is second only to home health care in growth, according
to the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics. The paralegal field
is expected to include 167,000 practitioners by the year
2005, up more than 85% from 1990.