REVIEW  OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   Barr vs. Consumers
Mr. Barr's proposal, which he assures has nothing to do
with election-year politics, would apply U.S. antitrust law
extraterritorially. His main target is the keiretsu system of
closely linked Japanese firms, but his only measure of
success will be a rise in U.S. prices for Hondas and Sonys.
   Mr. Barr's plan is so wrongheaded it's hard to know where
to begin. Start with years of experience that tells us that
foreign countries don't exactly welcome U.S. law applied to
their domestic activities. No one can blame other countries
for being reluctant to invite the absurdities of the American
legal system. Who knows what could happen if Mr. Barr strafed
Japan with contingency-fee lawyers?
   There is also a real risk of reverse extraterritoriality.
Mr. Barr's view of the Sherman Act might mean that every "Buy
American" program would be a prima facie violation of any
Japanese version of the law applied here. Mayors in cities
that refuse to buy Toyota police cars could find themselves
hauled before a Tokyo court.
   Add to this the inconvenient fact for Mr. Barr that the
Supreme Court has made it very clear that U.S. antitrust laws
are aimed at protecting U.S. consumers, not U.S. competitors.
As applied extraterritorially to Japan, this principle would
mean that so long as the "keiretsu" face competition from
other keiretsu, they violate no laws.
   As a real-world matter, the recent news about Japanese
electronics firms facing tough times shows that this
competition is not only real, it can be painful. Matsushita
Electric, the world's biggest consumer electronics maker,
faces a 32% drop in profits this year, while Hitachi's
profits fell 37%. Meanwhile, Nintendo and SEGA Enterprises,
the video-game makers, are doing just fine, with profits from
software, not hardware. Someone should remind Mr. Barr that
many of the programs for these computer games are written by
Americans.
   The concern for clear economic thinking about price and
quality as opposed to arbitrary opposition to firms that are
"too big" marked a revolution in thinking about antitrust
law. Robert Bork did the pathbreaking work as an academic in
the 1970s, reminding judges and lawyers that big companies
are not necessarily bad for consumers. Then came President
Reagan and his first head of the Justice Department's
antitrust division, William Baxter, a Stanford law professor
who had spent a career introducing economic sense to
antitrust. Mr. Baxter's successors include Douglas Ginsburg
(now an appellate judge) and Charles Rule, who added the
interpretation of law that Mr. Barr now plans to dump.
   "In 1988," Mr. Rule recalled for us, "we articulated the
policy that the Attorney General is about to change in order
to send a clear message. This is that the law no longer
condones suits based on discredited antitrust theories. At a
minimum, conduct that is not anti-competitive in the U.S.
does not become anti-competitive abroad simply because U.S.
exporters lose sales." Mr. Rule also reminded us that before
he changed the rules, almost all the litigation in this area
of antitrust was by U.S. firms against other U.S. firms that
had outcompeted them in foreign markets.
   In other words, the likeliest targets of any
extraterritorial application of U.S. antitrust laws are not
Japanese, but the subsidiaries of U.S. companies. So while
Vice President Quayle is trying to rein in the trial lawyers,
Mr. Barr is finding new work for them. It's no wonder that
the antitrust busters of the Reagan administration are
mystified about why Mr. Barr would want to invite the
antitrust lawyers back to a feeding frenzy with U.S.
consumers as the main course.
   In particular, someone needs to tell the Attorney General
that the last thing this economy needs is a return to the
1950s and 1960s when nearly every joint venture was met with
a lawsuit claiming some violation of the antitrust laws. We
now know that efficient production sometimes requires
integration of the talents of different firms to build a
better mousetrap.
   The only good news in Mr. Barr's proposed plan is that the
White House didn't rush to embrace it. This means there is
still time for Mr. Barr to reconsider. There are enough
politicians to get us into trade wars without any need for
the Justice Department to get into the act.