Marketing  Media -- Advertising:
   NBC Must Run Uphill to Win at Barcelona
   ----
   By Kevin Goldman
But the outlook for the General Electric Co. unit is
mixed. With just five months to go before the Olympic flame
lights up in Barcelona, Spain, on July 25, a hefty 30% of
NBC's advertising remains unsold. And some sponsors already
are wary they could get lost in the clutter, as NBC fattens
the prime-time programming load far beyond what CBS offered
in the Winter Games.
   Industry executives say NBC will be lucky to survive the
Summer Games at break even.
   To offset its massive $401 million in fees for U.S.
television rights plus coverage costs of another $100
million, NBC will flood the airwaves with a total of 161
hours of Summer Games coverage over 16 days -- 45 hours more
than CBS aired over the same number of nights. NBC also will
cram in 74 hours of prime time vs. CBS's 50 hours by
expanding the usual 8-to-11 p.m. prime-time segment to start
at 7:30 p.m. (on weeknights) and run to midnight.
   As if that weren't enough, NBC also will be part of a
venture offering a separate pay-per-view "triple-cast" of
Olympics fare on three cable channels -- an additional 1,080
hours of competition.
   "We have to be careful our message isn't lost in all the
hours upon hours of coverage," says Louis Schultz, executive
vice president of Interpublic Group's Lintas agency, which
handles such sponsors as Diet Coke and General Motors.
   Also, some advertisers astutely waited until the last
moment to buy time on the Winter Games, scoring cut-rate
deals. Ad executives say some sponsors may pull NBC into a
similar game of chicken.
   "It'll be a long haul," concedes Larry Hoffner, NBC's
executive vice president of sales, but he says there's "no
question" the Peacock network will be sold out. "We aren't
going to take business at any price. If someone comes in and
offers us half the price we want, we may not choose to do
that," he warns.
   NBC has been unable to move beyond the 70%-sold point it
had reached last fall, says Bill Croasdale, president of
national broadcasting at Western International Media. But
"the Winter Olympics may just be the shot in the arm NBC
needs," he adds.
   The network will have far more sports to fill the time. At
times CBS clearly had to stretch to fill its programming
load, resorting to dozens and dozens of canned features. The
Winter Games include 57 events, and Americans fare poorly in
most of them. But the the Summer Games feature 257 events
with an abundance of American favorites, including swimming,
diving, basketball, boxing, gymnastics, and track and field
among them.
   NBC is guaranteeing advertisers the Summer Games will draw
an average 16.9% of U.S. homes with TV sets each night. CBS
had guaranteed a 17% rating for the Winter Games and ended up
attracting 18.7%, but viewing levels are lower in the summer
as people shut off the set to enjoy the weather and take
vacations.
   NBC's conservative approach is in part an attempt to avoid
the embarrassment and losses it endured during the 1988
Summer Games in Seoul, Korea. NBC delivered a nightly
audience that was 16% smaller than the 21.2% rating it had
guaranteed to advertisers. The poor performance forced NBC to
provide "make-good" spots to cover the shortfall, producing a
loss of about $20 million for the network.
   Some sponsors of the Winter Olympics aren't exactly
clamoring to close deals with NBC. "We're considering it, but
we aren't even in discussions with NBC yet," says Barry
Robbins, vice president of marketing at Goodyear Tire 
Rubber, which was a major sponsor of the Games in
Albertville, France.
   Other advertisers are deciding whether to spend their
special media ad budgets on the Summer Games or wait until
the presidential primaries and election.
   Even if NBC sells out, John Tinker, managing director of
Furman Selz Inc., questions whether the network will be able
to break even. "NBC is trending downward fast," in terms of
ratings, says Mr. Tinker. "There was a different buzz with
CBS, that it is improving. That isn't the case with NBC, and
that perception may affect the ability to draw an audience."
   Another disadvantage, he says, is the new trend in summer
programming of broadcasting original episodes of returning
shows and season premieres. But that doesn't concern NBC. "We
have extensive plans to promote this," says NBC's Mr.
Hoffner. "We didn't promote our coverage in 1988 as well as
we could have. That won't be the case this time."
   ---
   MasterCard Contenders
                                                                                                       

   Agencies scrambled to assess their chances in the
estimated $60 million MasterCard review, disclosed Tuesday by
the New York credit-card association.
   Large agencies expected to start circling the account
include WPP Group's J. Walter Thompson, Grey Advertising, New
York, and Leo Burnett Co., Chicago, industry executives said.
   "It's wide open," said MasterCard spokesman Steven Apesos
of the review. The company expects to name finalists by
midsummer, Mr. Apesos said. In the meantime agencies'
qualifications and client rosters will be scrutinized to find
potential conflicts with other current accounts. Grey and
Burnett have no apparent conflicts, but Thompson handles Ford
Motor Co., which has a credit division.
   MasterCard said it is likely to consider banks that issue
credit cards, such as Citibank and Chase Manhattan, to be
indirect competition, because in bank ads MasterCard and Visa
are often "handled as generics," Mr. Apesos said. Agencies
who handle such clients, not to mention MasterCard's obvious
competitors like Visa or American Express, won't be
considered. "Other than that, we don't have any bias," said
Keith Kendrick, senior vice president of U.S. marketing.
   A slew of small shops also is expected to join the fray,
since high-profile chargecard advertising often entails
mainly producing commercials and print ads.
   ---
   JWT Gets Unilever Media
                                                                                                       

   J. Walter Thompson, a unit of WPP Group, beat a host of
blue-chip agencies for an estimated $100 million network
media-buying account from Anglo-Dutch packaged goods giant
Unilever.
   The account covers network television buying for Unilever
units ChesebroughPond's, Lever Bros., Thomas J. Lipton, Ragu
Foods and Van den Bergh Foods, accounts it will share with
New York media firm Botway Group. Thompson replaces
Unilever's in-house group LL Media.
   Other contenders for the account included Interpublic
Group units Lintas and McCann-Erickson; Omnicom Group's BBDO
and WPP Group's Ogilvy  Mather.
   ---
   Ad Notes. . . .
                                                                                                       

   ST. IDES SETTLEMENT: McKenzie River Corp., San Francisco,
agreed to pay $50,000 to settle charges filed by New York
State Attorney General Robert Abrams over an ad campaign for
St. Ides malt liquor. The attorney general charged McKenzie
with suggesting, in radio rap ads, that the product increased
"male virility and sexual prowess." The ads also appeared to
encourage underage drinking, according to the charges, and
touted the brand's high alcohol content. A company spokesman
said McKenzie River had modified its advertising "months ago"
and admitted no wrongdoing by settling.
                                                                                                       

   ACCOUNT: Mattel Inc. awarded the ad account for board
games from its International Games Corp. acquisition to the
Los Angeles office of Foote, Cone  Belding.