International:
   Mexico Guards Its Precious Oil Business
   ---
   Foreigners Push, but
   Protectionist Gates Stay Shut
   ----
   By Dianna Solis
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Mexico's oil has an emotional history. More than 50 years
ago, Mexico booted out U.S. and European oil companies for
ignoring a Mexican Supreme Court labor order. Mexicans still
celebrate the 1938 oil expropriation with a national holiday
and toast their oil-rig workers with a potent drink of
tequila and oily steak sauce dubbed "petroleo," Spanish for
petroleum. Feelings are especially strong against Yankee
interlopers, who, after all, took oil-rich Texas from Mexico
in 1848.
   In just three years, the administration of President
Carlos Salinas de Gortari has undone decades of Mexican
protectionism and trade barriers. He has privatized the phone
company, the banks, mines and most recently communal
farmlands. Even in the energy sector, imports of U.S. natural
gas have quadrupled since 1990, one gas-pipeline project has
been approved, and U.S. oil drillers have won their first
Mexican contracts in decades.
   Only Big Oil remains out of the Salinas script. "The
contracts are a step in the right direction," says Ed Porter
of the American Petroleum Institute, a lobbying group, "but
it isn't close to the kinds of openings the major oil
companies want." The oil industry is making its complaints
heard, urging negotiators of a free-trade agreement among the
U.S., Canada and Mexico to push harder on trade possibilities
with Petroleos Mexicanos S.A., or Pemex, as the state oil
monopoly is known.
   Mexico's reform-minded president and President Bush both
say they would like the free-trade pact inked in 1992. A
draft of the pact is expected at the end of this month, and
certain chapters are now circulating. But a 1992 signature of
the treaty is uncertain, given the sluggish U.S. economy and
the election year. Thus, the recent U.S. message at the trade
table: Lubricate passage with petroleum opportunities for
U.S. companies.
   "The Americans are turning on the heat," says a Mexican
source close to the negotiations. "They basically want
everything on oil. They want everything except the right to
own the land."
   But the Mexican constitution, which Mexico's top trade
negotiators say is "inalterable," restricts petroleum
ownership to Mexican nationals. While many nations'
constitutions grant control over mineral rights exclusively
to nationals, Mexico goes a step further. Its separate
petroleum regulations specifically prohibit payment with
crude -- the toughest restriction in Latin America, say oil
executives.
   U.S. Trade Representative Carla Hills, a former board
director at Chevron Corp., says President Bush "respects the
constitutional prohibition." But energy already comprises 25%
of the three-way trade, she notes. "We would like to get as
much liberalization as possible."
   With little or no investment during the debt-burdened
1980s, Mexico's proven reserves actually shrank 10%. They now
stand at 44.5 billion barrels of oil, a respectable amount
even by Middle East standards. Pemex actually states them as
65.5 billion barrels of "hydrocarbons," lumping oil, gas and
condensates into one confusing figure. But last month, the
leftleaning Mexican magazine Procesoran ran a cover headline:
"The Lies of Pemex." Inside, Pemex's retired chief of primary
production asserted Mexico actually had half the 65.5 billion
barrels. Pemex disagrees with his claim.
   Whatever the reserves, the U.S. Export-Import Bank warned
in a recent memo that "Pemex must develop new production
capabilities or Mexico will become an oilimporting country in
the foreseeable future."
   Many oil companies are willing to assist investment-short
Mexico in averting that. But they want production-sharing
contracts. Careful not to inflame nationalism, oil officials
talk euphemistically about "association" or "management"
contracts. Payment could be in the form of discounts on crude
purchases, suggests one official.
   Pemex dismisses the likelihood of production-sharing. In
his expansive, top-floor suite, Manuel J. Ortiz de Maria,
Pemex subdirector of primary production, says there will be
no "alternatives or situations that would establish
mechanisms that commit volumes of crude."
   But Mr. Ortiz is caught between Mexico's nationalistic
past and its modernizing future. His exploration and
production division, the most important in the Pemex empire,
is being shaken by layoffs and the award of contracts to
foreign drillers.
   Since President Salinas came to power, Pemex staff has
shrunk by a third to about 150,000 employees. Under contract
to the Mexican oil monopoly, Houston-based Triton
International Inc. bored into the ocean floor last spring
with a successful exploratory well in a record 127 days, half
Pemex's usual time.
   Sonat's victory here, with its Mexican partner EPN Arval
S.A., is only the second such contract for a foreigner in at
least two decades. But dozens more service contracts for
drilling by U.S. firms are assured because of U.S.
Export-Import Bank stipulations tied to $1.3 billion in loan
guarantees granted last year.
   "This contract in no way compromises the patrimony of the
state," says Mr. Powell, the Venezuelan-born vice president
of the Sonat unit drilling the wells.
   But oil multinationals emphasize that they aren't in the
contracting business. Texaco Inc. operates joint ventures in
Colombia, Ecuador and Argentina on a continent where oil is a
symbol of national independence. "I think the Mexicans will
realize the difficulty they will have in financing their own
needs," says Bill Carter, Texaco's contract manager in its
Latin America and West Africa group.
   Some don't agree, though. Despite the heady 4% growth of
Mexico's economy for the past two years and the whipping of
three-digit inflation, the country's huge foreign debt
remains at $100 billion. And Pemex revenues provided about
40% of the 1990 federal budget, according to the World Bank.
"You should get some efficiencies by subcontracting {to
foreigners}," says Sweder van Wijnbergen, a World Bank
economist. "But I think there is some merit to the Mexican
argument {for protecting Pemex}, purely on economics and not
politics."
   Meantime, the Pemex welcome mat in non-oil energy ventures
is still out. To meet environmental and energy needs in the
booming industrial corridor of assembly plants along the
2,000-mile U.S.-Mexico border, Mexico is sucking up U.S.
natural gas, a cleaner-burning fuel, at quadruple the rate it
did in 1990. Imports last year averaged 170 million cubic
feet daily.
   The trade has grown so rapidly that in December, Valero
Energy Co. of San Antonio, Texas, won U.S. regulatory
approval to construct a short gas pipeline under the Rio
Grande. Two other Texas companies are cajoling Mexican
officials to let them build and own much larger gas
pipelines.
   "The market is so poor in the U.S. that we are falling
over ourselves to connect pipelines down there," says Tom
Rommel, a Houston natural gas-broker. A third of U.S. gas
reserves are in the Texas and New Mexico border states.
   With Mexico City pollution hitting unsafe levels for about
half of 1991, imports into Mexico of unleaded gasoline have
doubled recently. And Italy's Ente Nazionale Idrocarburi
plans to build a huge petrochemical plant in Mexico for
production of MTBE, an essential component of unleaded
gasoline.
   MTBE was once on Mexico's 70-item list of basic
petrochemicals reserved for state production. The list has
been steadily whacked back to 19 items.