Rule of Law --
   Justice Thomas's Opinions:
   No Wonder They Wanted to Stop Him
   ----
   By L. Gordon Crovitz
Ironically, this came in a decision that upheld a lawsuit
for damages that went beyond compensatory damages. The widow
of a patient who died in a Veteran's Administration hospital
because of negligence included a claim for future medical
expenses and "loss of life" in her lawsuit under the Federal
Tort Claims Act. The U.S. defended the lawsuit by arguing
that it should be dismissed because the law prohibits any
assessment of punitive damages against the government.
   Justice Thomas let the case go forward by noting that
punitive damages is "a legal term of art that has a widely
accepted common-law meaning," which he defined as damages
"for torts committed with fraud, actual malice, violence or
oppression." The claim here was only for negligence, and not
for "intentional or egregious misconduct," so it could be
brought under the Federal Tort Claims Act.
   The clear corollary of Justice Thomas's definition of
punitive damages is that the common law doesn't let juries
award punitive damages unless the defendant acted with some
combination of fraud, bad intent and egregious misbehavior.
Yet in recent years many state judges have instead told
jurors that they could award punitive damages in
run-of-the-mill negligence cases.
   Justice Thomas thus opened a new constitutional challenge
to punitive damages based on the lack of evil intent by the
defendant. This line of attack on punitive damages has
historical support. Until very recently, punitive damages
were reserved largely for intentional torts such as assault.
Other recent opinions by the court also say that some
punitive damages might be so arbitrary and unpredictable that
they violate the Due Process Clause.
   Justice Thomas also wrote the 6-3 opinion this week in a
case widely reported as a loss for labor unions. It was, but
more importantly Lechmere v. NLRB was a victory for private
property -- perhaps an indication of more Supreme Court
victories for property rights in several other cases the
justices will decide this term.
   Here, a union campaign to organize a store's workers
included putting leaflets on the windshields of workers' cars
parked in a shopping center lot, which the store owned.
Several federal appeals courts have ruled that unions could
go onto private property to organize workers, especially onto
such quasi-public land as shopping malls. Justice Thomas said
that nothing in the labor laws justified this intrusion.
   Unions need to be able to communicate with potential
members, but he said that "nonemployee organizers cannot
claim even a limited right of access to a nonconsenting
employer's property" except under extraordinary conditions.
He rejected a judicial balancing test that in other cases
often sacrificed the employer's property rights. Union
organizers can trespass only where access to workers is
otherwise "infeasible." He gave as examples logging camps and
mountain resort hotels.
   In two other cases, Justice Thomas tweaked his new
colleagues for failing to adhere closely enough to the
Constitution. He agreed with the result in White v. Illinois
-- that a defendant accused of sexual assault on a child
can't invoke the Confrontation Clause to block hearsay
evidence against him -- but cited several precedents that he
said ignored the strict language of the Constitution. In a
concurring opinion joined by Justice Antonin Scalia, Justice
Thomas noted that this clause guarantees only that a
defendant can confront "witnesses against him," and says
nothing about the technical rules of hearsay.
   "This court's cases have complicated and confused the
relationship between the constitutional right of
confrontation and the hearsay rules of evidence," Justice
Thomas wrote, concluding that this line of reasoning is
fatally flawed. "I respectfully suggest that in an
appropriate case we reconsider how the phrase `witness
against' in the Confrontation Clause pertains to the
admission of hearsay."
   Justice Thomas also wrote a dissent that reminded the
other justices that they too are subject to separation of
powers, including the limit on judicial power from the narrow
category of cases where the Supreme Court has original
jurisdiction to hear disputes. The majority opinion said that
Wyoming v. Oklahoma was one of the rare cases where the
Supreme Court has original jurisdiction under the
Constitution because the parties in the lawsuit are states.
Justice Thomas wrote a dissent, also signed by Chief Justice
William Rehnquist and Justice Scalia, arguing that the
justices shouldn't decide the case because this was not
really a case between states.
   Instead, the underlying issue was that Oklahoma passed a
law requiring utilities in the state to use 10%
Oklahoma-mined coal. This made it harder for Wyoming mining
companies to sell in Oklahoma, where they had provided nearly
all the coal. Wyoming then sued under the Commerce Clause
arguing that the Oklahoma law reduced its state revenues by
cutting the receipts on the severance tax it places on coal
extracted from Wyoming. Justice Thomas's dissent said that
this remote harm does not give Wyoming standing to sue, so
the case shouldn't be in the Supreme Court.
   "Wyoming has advanced no reason why the affected mining
companies (hardly bashful litigants) did not or could not
themselves" bring the lawsuit, he wrote. Justice Thomas would
have refused to hear the case, saving the Supreme Court
docket for cases the justices must hear.
   Judicial restraint means that judges or even justices
sometimes must admit that they don't have the authority to
resolve a dispute. This point is related to the close
attention Justice Thomas paid as a federal appeals judge to
when a controversy is moot and when it's ripe for judicial
resolution.
   It's worth noting that in the 25 opinions the Supreme
Court has issued so far, Justice Thomas has voted with
Justice Scalia more than with any other justice. Indeed, they
differed only in one case -- where Justice Scalia wrote a
separate concurring opinion of three sentences in a decision
on how appeals must be filed.
   Justice Thomas already has done more than solidify the
intellectual conservative wing of the court. It also seems
likely that his lifelong career on the Supreme Court will be
a constant reminder to his critics of why they went to such
lengths to try to block his nomination.