PERSONAL TECHNOLOGY
   ----
   By Walter S. Mossberg
Plugged In on the Road
                                                                                                       

   THE COMPUTER industry has sold a lot of portable personal
computers by promising that they would enable their owners to
conduct business with the home office over phone lines from
hotels and other remote sites.
   But like so much else connected with high technology, that
pledge is easier made than redeemed.
   It's true that a laptop computer equipped with a modem --
a telephone-like device for sending data over phone lines --
can transmit and receive documents over almost any phone
line, giving it the potential to function as a remote
business center. All you have to do is connect the machine,
using a standard telephone wire, to a modular phone jack, and
then dial up your office computer using your communications
software.
   But getting those connections to work often takes much
more experience and technical skill than the computer ads
suggest.
   I learned this the hard way. For several years I traveled
around the world for this newspaper covering the secretary of
state. The reporters aboard his plane were supposed to be
pondering great world events, but we often had to focus
instead on how to get our laptops to work from various
hotels. One highlight of our journeys occurred in Moscow when
a Cable News Network reporter finally linked his laptop PC to
CNN's Atlanta headquarters by yanking the phone wires out of
the wall in our hotel and wiring his modem directly into
them.
   You don't have to go to such extremes to hook up a laptop
in your hotel room. But you must overcome two basic
obstacles.
   First, the telephone hardware in hotels is often hostile
to making connections. Spare phone jacks are rare; those
already in use for the phones are often hidden behind heavy
furniture; and some phones are wired directly into the wall
without a plug-in phone jack.
   Second, the system for making calls can be complicated,
sometimes requiring that all calls go through an operator or
use a long string of numbers. That can make it tough to set
up your software to dial into the home office.
   So, here are a few tips from a seasoned laptop lugger that
might help you overcome these hurdles. Most of this advice
also applies to portable fax machines.
   -- Look for a hotel that provides spare phone jacks. These
are still rare but are growing in number. One example is the
new San Francisco Marriott.
   -- Failing that, always carry three inexpensive items: a
long spare phone wire, a coupler to connect two phone wires
and a Y-adapter -- a gizmo that lets two phone wires plug
into a single jack. With these three things, available for a
few dollars each at Radio Shack and similar stores, you can
usually avoid using the wall jack at all. For instance, you
can plug the Y-adapter into the back of the phone and then
plug both the line from the wall and the line to your PC's
modem into it.
   -- For hotels where the phone is permanently "hard-wired"
to the wall and you can't plug anything in, consider buying
two costlier devices. One is an acoustic coupler, which
connects your modem to the phone's handset via rubber cups
that fit over the mouth and ear pieces.
   The other is a special connector that fits between the
handset and phone and provides a phone jack for your modem.
One source for these gadgets is Unlimited Systems of San
Diego, which makes both types of devices in the U.S. and
sells them under the Konexx brand name. Each costs $80 to
$150.
   -- Make sure before you leave that you have communications
software that can accommodate long phone numbers. Hotels
often require that guests use extra digits when calling
outside lines. Some programs will let you set up an automatic
dialing entry that conforms to the hotel's particular system,
so the computer can just dial away. Hint: You can build
pauses into these programmed phone numbers using commas
between the digits. That way the computer will wait for an
outside dial tone before proceeding.
   -- Also try to learn how your software can be set up to
handle situations where you dial on the phone itself or give
an operator a credit card number orally. This can be tricky
and may require a close reading of the software manual.
   -- If your company's computers aren't set up to be dialed
directly, you can subscribe to a public service such as MCI
Mail. The service will assign you an electronic mailbox into
which you can deposit documents from your laptop computer.
Then, your associates back home can call the same service and
retrieve the documents from the mailbox for use at the
office.
   -- Instead of toting a printer along on trips, consider
equipping your laptop with a "fax modem" -- a modem equipped
to send faxes. Then, if you want a printout of something on
your laptop's screen, just send it downstairs to the hotel's
fax machine.
   They don't teach things like that in business school. And,
in an ideal world, you shouldn't have to know about them. But
for now, keep in mind that using a hotel room as a computer
center usually takes some extra effort.