Freeport Plans
   To Shed Reserves
   Of Oil and Gas
   ----
   By Caleb Solomon
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Freeport also said its fourth-quarter net income rose to
$12.9 million, or 17 cents a share, from $10.2 million, or 13
cents a share, a year earlier. Revenue slid 4.9% to $369.3
million from $388.5 million. The company changed its
accounting methods and restated prior-year results.
   Operating profit in the quarter actually fell 36% as
prices declined for almost all its basic commodities --
including oil, copper, gold, silver and phosphate fertilizers
made from sulfur. With the economy struggling and interest
rates and inflation remaining low, the price outlook for most
commodities is flat. Freeport has been able to survive by
increasing production and cutting costs.
   Wall Street reacted enthusiastically to Freeport's
changes. In trading yesterday on the New York Stock Exchange,
the stock was quoted at $44.125, up $2.625. A number of metal
company stocks also rose yesterday, but "the key thing is the
cutting of long-term debt," said Marc Cohen, a securities
analyst at Kidder, Peabody  Co. in New York.
   Freeport's long-term debt surged to $1.94 billion by
year-end 1991, in large part to pay for development of two
big natural-resource discoveries. The company has spent $500
million on a copper and gold discovery in a vast tract in
Indonesia. It will spend $475 million to $500 million for its
portion of a sulfur discovery in the Gulf of Mexico, where
the company is building the largest platform in the history
of the Gulf. The sulfur project also produces oil and natural
gas that the company isn't spinning off.
   To pay down some of the debt, Freeport said it will use
the current value of the oil and gas reserves it plans to
spin off to arrange bank debt or other financing totaling
$500 million.
   Because of the heavy debt load, there had been rumors that
Freeport would cut both its regular quarterly dividend of
37.5 cents a share and a special dividend of 25 cents a
quarter. "With this much debt reduced, it's a moot point,"
said Mr. Cohen, the Kidder analyst.
   At one point last year, Freeport put up for sale all its
oil and gas reserves; but in today's horrendous
domestic-energy market, the company apparently didn't receive
offers it deemed acceptable. Freeport said it has focused on
"exploration successes" in its metals and agricultural
minerals operations. And it has "significantly reduced . . .
oil and natural gas exploration efforts because of the bleak
outlook for oil and natural gas prices."
   Freeport said it expects that shares of the new oil and
gas corporation will have minimal value on the date of
distribution because of the significant debt that will burden
the assets. But it said the corporation, which won't explore
for new reserves, has "excellent long-term value."