REVIEW  OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   Liberty's Gilded Door
It has taken awhile for this message to filter through to
Vietnam's people because the West hasn't been able to bring
itself to say, bluntly, that most refugees should get lost.
Instead, the authorities in Hong Kong and in potential
settlement countries such as the United States have been
relying since the late 1980s on a "screening" process by
which officials can conveniently decide that most boat people
are not "real" refugees but "economic migrants."
   These economic migrants are then denied any chance of
starting a new life in a free country. Their only options are
to wait without serious employment, freedom of movement or
hope of salvation in the bleak chickenwire concentration
camps of Hong Kong, or to "volunteer" to go back to Vietnam.
   It is this squalid exercise in attrition that the U.S.
coordinator for refugee affairs, Ambassador-at-Large Jewel
Lafontant-Mankarious, was praising during a press conference
in Hong Kong on Monday, when she said that America is "very
much in favor of encouraging voluntary repatriation." Ms.
Lafontant-Mankarious added, "There is no chance of coming to
the United States if they are screened out."
   To further encourage boat people to "volunteer" for
repatriation, Hong Kong's government has since 1989 sent back
three batches of boat people against their will, most
recently forcing back 36 boat people aboard a chartered
freight plane last month.
   The policy of President Bush's administration has been to
protest such forced repatriation, which is a twitch in the
right direction. But Hong Kong is by no means the only place
at fault. The obvious step for America would be to offer
asylum in the U.S. for Hong Kong's "screened-out" boat
people. There is no motion in this direction visible anywhere
within the U.S. government.
   For Americans far removed from the more than 50,000 boat
people still in Hong Kong's camps, the fate of these freedom
seekers may seem a minor issue. It is not. There is a
perilous trend afoot when we find the politicians and civil
servants of the Free World busy relabeling refugees, the
better to bundle them back as unwanted cargo to one of the
world's few remaining Communist states. It is pathetic to see
Hong Kong's officials congratulating themselves that they
have succeeded in broadcasting the message that Hong Kong
will no longer serve as a haven of liberty in Asia.
   For freedom-loving citizens of places such as Hong Kong
and the U.S., it would at least be healthier to see some
truth in advertising. A good start might be for America to
start selling refugee-screening manuals along with all the
other paeans to freedom at the bookstore outside the Statue
of Liberty on Liberty Island. It'd be a little embarrassing,
but at least it would get the word out that the message on
the famous huddled-masses poem at the foot of the statue is
history.