International:
   GATT to Rule
   Against German
   Aid to Airbus
   ---
   Decision Is a Small Victory
   For U.S., but Main Issue
   Of Subsidies Unresolved
   ----
   By Brian Coleman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The ruling, while a plus for Washington, isn't the big
victory that the U.S. has been looking for on the issue of
Airbus funding. U.S. officials are more concerned with the
government aid given to Airbus member companies for the
development of new aircraft -- an amount one U.S. study
placed at $13.5 billion over the course of the consortium's
20-year history.
   Last month, the EC countered that complaint by releasing a
study claiming that the U.S. civil aviation industry has
benefited from up to $22 billion in indirect subsidies from
the U.S. government. Also last month, the consortium
announced plans to pay back by 1996 more than $4 billion to
the four European governments that gave launch aid.
   Nonetheless, the issue continues to be the focus of a
separate dispute under the GATT framework. In September, the
U.S. and the EC unsuccessfully concluded talks held before
the GATT conciliation committee on the subject of launch aid.
The U.S. now can request the formation of a panel similar to
the one studying the exchange-rate case to resolve the
launch-aid issue, but informal talks between the two sides
are continuing.
   Although the exchange-rate case is considered separate
from the broader talks on government aid, its outcome is
likely to affect the handling of the launch-aid dispute. EC
officials were upset that the panel was set up under the
subsidies code rather than the GATT's more liberal civil
aircraft code, and even before news of the ruling had vowed
not to let the Airbus aid dispute fall under the same rules.
   The exchange-rate ruling likely will be made formal at the
next meeting of the GATT subsidy code committee in the coming
three to four weeks. Although the panel's decision could be
blocked if the EC and Germany refuse to go along with the
ruling-panel decisions require a consensus of GATT's members
to take effectthat prospect is considered unlikely.
   Officials from both the U.S. Trade Representative's office
and the European Community Commission declined to comment on
whether they received any report from the panel, but a person
familiar with the proceedings said the two sides have been
advised of the panel's intentions.
   "We haven't been informed of it yet," an Airbus
spokeswoman said. "But this has always been considered a
German case and not an Airbus case."
   Officials from Deutsche Airbus couldn't be reached for
comment.
   In addition to Deutsche Airbus, the consortium's partners
are British Aerospace PLC, Aerospatiale S.A. of France and
Construcciones Aeronauticas S.A. of Spain.
   Airbus's growing market share has set off alarm bells
throughout the U.S. aircraft industry, which has dominated
the lucrative civil aviation market. The consortium has
acquired about 30% of the market for large aircraft, much of
that gained at the expense of McDonnell Douglas Corp. Boeing
Co., however, continues to have more than 50% of the market.