Biotechnology:
   Hoffman-La Roche to Ease Curb on Gene Technology
   ----
   By Ron Winslow
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
While the immediate effect of the move will be limited,
scientists said the decision clears a major bottleneck to
eventual development of inexpensive genetic tests for
ailments ranging from cystic fibrosis and muscular dystrophy
to heart disease and cancer. PCR can also be used in
detection of human immunodeficiency virus, the virus that
causes acquired immune deficiency syndrome, and other
viruses, as well as in so-called DNA finger-printing tests
used to identify criminal suspects or to resolve paternity
suits. Currently, PCR accounts for only a few million dollars
of tests annually, but proponents believe the market will
mushroom into a billion-dollar industry by the end of the
decade.
   Roche, the U.S. unit of Roche Holding Ltd., the Swiss
pharmaceutical company, disclosed its intentions at a
conference on the commercialization of biotechnology at Cold
Spring Harbor Laboratory's Banbury Center here. Details of
the new policy won't be finalized until next month, when the
company is expected to announce them at a meeting at the
National Academy of Sciences in Washington D.C. Scientists
welcomed the development.
   "I'm very pleased," said James Watson, the Nobel prize
winner who heads the U.S. program to map the human genetic
code and directs the research lab at Cold Spring Harbor. "The
technology is too important to be restricted to any one
company."
   "Roche is going to allow an industry to happen," said
David Botstein, a prominent molecular biologist at Stanford
University. "It will be the Intel of genetic testing," he
added, referring to the semiconductor company whose
microchips power much of the personal computer industry.
   PCR is already fueling a revolution in genetic discoveries
by making it possible to replicate strands of genetic
material rapidly and in enormous quantities, significantly
enhancing the ability of researchers to detect specific genes
and segments of DNA. As more genes and genetic mutations
linked to disease are discovered, PCR becomes important not
only as a research tool, but in diagnosis as well.
   PCR was invented in 1983 by scientists at Cetus Corp.
which sold certain diagnostic marketing rights to Roche in
1989. In December, Roche acquired the full patent rights to
PCR for $300 million as part of a transaction in which Chiron
Corp., an Emeryville, Calif., biotechnology company, acquired
Cetus.
   Meanwhile, when researchers announced discovery of a
genetic defect that causes cystic fibrosis in 1989, it opened
a major new market for genetic testing that until recently
has focused on prenatal screening, based on other technology,
for Down's Syndrome. Diagnostic labs wanted to license PCR to
develop screening tests for cystic fibrosis.
   But under licensing policies established by Cetus and
Roche, laboratories are required to pay a $15,000 annual down
payment against royalty fees of $24 or 15% of revenue per
test, according to Arthur L. Beaudet of the Institute for
Molecular Genetics at Baylor College in Houston.
   In addition, labs aren't permitted to use PCR at all for
paternity tests, a growing diagnostic business, and some
other purposes, and can't offer customers significant volume
discounts. Any improvements licensees would make in applying
the technology would become the property of Roche.
   The result has been a cumbersome and expensive licensing
process that has "cast a pall" over the future of the genetic
testing business, says Thomas K. Reed, chairman and chief
executive officer of Vivigen Inc., a Santa Fe, N.M., company
that specializes in genetic diagnostic testing. In recent
months, as Roche took over full ownership of the technology,
scientists, including Dr. Beaudet and Dr. Watson, have raised
complaints at scientific meetings.
   "There was enormous frustration over the {licensing}
policy," said Dr. Watson, the co-discoverer of the molecular
structure DNA. "It was very inhibiting to a large number of
companies who wanted to develop products." Without a move to
significantly lower barriers to the technology, he said,
Congress was poised to hold hearings on the issue.
   Douglas S. McQuilkin, vice president of business
development for Roche Molecular Systems, a new business unit
established solely to develop PCR-based products, told the
weekend conference that Roche would make the technology
"available to any lab without restriction" under financial
terms that haven't been determined.
   Apparently, royalties will be less than under current
policy; academic and other not-for-profit labs, for instance,
won't pay a down payment and the royalty will be under 10%,
he said. Single licenses will cover most human diagnostic
tests, except for certain forensic tests used in criminal and
civil court cases. Those will be licensed by Perkin-Elmer
Corp., Mr. McQuilkin said. He said the company hadn't
estimated the financial impact of the new policy, but
scientists and others at the meeting predicted that wider use
of PCR will prove lucrative for the company. In addition, the
company plans to introduce PCR test kits within a year, he
said. And Roche will use PCR in its own diagnotic laboratory
operations, one of the largest in the U.S.
   Assuming the final details satisfy concerns over access to
the technology, the effect in the marketplace will depend on
other technological developments, including the discovery of
more genetic defects linked to inherited diseases and the
ability to automate genetic testing so several tests can be
run simultaneously on a single blood sample. Gene-testing
proponents see the possibililty of running a test for say,
$200, that would yield 50 different pieces of genetic
information.
   Even if such predictions prove true, prospects for broad
population-based genetic screening raise social, economic and
ethical questions that have yet to be answered. Even at a low
price, it isn't clear that such tests will lead to
cost-effective health care. Ethicists and others are
troubled, for instance, by the likelihood of discovering that
people are predisposed to diseases that haven't any cures and
by the possibility that insurance companies and employers
will use genetic data to determine health coverage or in
hiring.