LEISURE  ARTS -- Bookshelf:
   Is Liberal Democracy the Hallmark of Our Era?
   ----
   By Robert Reich
(b) History alternates between periods of central control
and chaos, and we are again entering the latter. The 40-year
interval of superpower stability is giving way to tribal
fragmentation and warfare with ethnic tensions flaring over
Eastern Europe and the former Soviet Union, the Asian
subcontinent, and even within advanced industrial nations
(witness France's Le Pen and America's David Duke).
   (c) History is ending in cultural authoritarianism.
Societies like Japan and Germany, which reward group loyalty
and investment, are gaining economic power over societies
organized around individual liberty and personal consumption.
Meanwhile, much of the Third World is succumbing to Islamic
fundamentalism.
   (d) History is ending in liberal democracy and individual
liberty. Modern economies depend on educated work forces,
which in turn are demanding rights and freedoms that only
liberal democracies can provide (look at Latin America).
   (e) All of the above.
   The correct answer is, of course, (e). History is
unfolding dramatically in every direction at once, spewing
enough data to prove any grand historical design that the
human imagination possibly can devise. But being human, we
would like to believe in a single, all-encompassing design,
and that makes answer (e) unsatisfying. Francis Fukuyama's
"The End of History and the Last Man" (Free Press, 418 pages,
$24.95) develops alternative (d), surely the most emotionally
satisfying of all.
   Mr. Fukuyama at least deserves credit for lifting our
political gaze above tabloid sex scandals, conspiracies to
murder former presidents, and Japanese auto imports, and
focusing it instead on the epochal changes under way around
the world. Undeniably, we are at a historic moment, and Mr.
Fukuyama's serious attempt to discern its contours is
commendable -- even if he does look for guidance in odd
places, like the musings of a 19th-century apologist of the
Prussian monarchy (Hegel).
   The scope of Mr. Fukuyama's ambition also commands
respect. At a time when many scholars dedicate their lives to
subjects like crustacean saliva and 15th-century spoon
engravings, Mr. Fukuyama attempts no less than an entire
theory of history-seeking to show that human civilization is
evolving by stops and starts toward an ultimate form of
society that respects individual rights and governs itself by
consent.
   Along the way, he offers the reader a tour through an
entire undergraduate curriculum, counting on Plato and
Aristotle, Hobbes and Locke, Rousseau and Tocqueville,
Nietzsche, Hegel, Marx and Kant among many, many others to
point us along what is not always a well-lit road. One needs
X-ray glasses to penetrate, just for example: "The
persistence of imperialism and war after the great bourgeois
revolutions of the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries is
therefore due not only to the survival of the atavistic
warrior ethos, but also to the fact that the master's
megalothymia was incompletely sublimated into economic
activity."
   Mr. Fukuyama's central argument is drawn from an article
he wrote in 1989, which generated considerable intellectual
controversy at the time. I am quite sure that I was chosen to
do this review because I'm the last remaining person in
Cambridge who has not yet commented in print on that article.
In this book, Mr. Fukuyama repeats and expands his notion
that liberal democracy represents the ideological culmination
of history.
   In addition, he wonders whether human history has a
direction and a logical ending point, and offers two
arguments to prove that it does. The first is founded in the
evolution of science and technology, which, he contends,
leads to capitalism. His second argument is founded in the
universal psychology of human beings, who want to be
acknowledged and respected as inherently worthy. While
capitalism does not necessarily require a democratic system
of governance, argues Mr. Fukuyama, the human need for
respect ultimately does.
   In the remaining part of the book, Mr. Fukuyama examines
criticisms of his thesis from the left and the right. To the
left's complaint that full democracy cannot be achieved so
long as there remains economic inequality, Mr. Fukuyama
responds that society is still in the process of reaching the
eventual goal of equal recognition and respect for all human
beings.
   Mr. Fukuyama is more troubled by the right's critique,
which takes issue with the goal itself. Granting equal
recognition to people who are inherently unequal in natural
endowments might create a society of what Nietzsche called
"last men" -- nihilists and cultural relativists who give up
any struggle for recognition at all, or who might generate a
war for domination. Mr. Fukuyama acknowledges the danger, but
argues that liberal democracy nonetheless will best fulfill
mankind's striving for respect.
   All of this is written in the sweeping, grandiloquent
style of much 19th-century political philosophy, and it's
brimming with allusions to Great Thinkers and psychological
Truths. On closer inspection, though, his series of
assertions are all too often wrapped in tautologies.
   Consider, for instance, Mr. Fukuyama's core idea: "As
mankind approaches the end of the millennium, the twin crises
of authoritarianism and socialist central planning have left
only one competitor standing in the ring as an ideology of
potential universal validity: liberal democracy, the doctrine
of individual freedom and popular sovereignty." Mr. Fukuyama
backs the claim with a list of 62 countries that have become
liberal democracies over the past 200 years; only three
liberal democracies existed in 1790.
   It is an impressive list, to be sure, although several of
Mr. Fukuyama's "liberal democracies" (Turkey, El Salvador,
South Korea, Singapore and the Philippines, for example)
don't strike me exactly as bastions of individual freedom and
popular sovereignty. Not to worry, argues Mr. Fukuyama,
because the type of democracy that characterizes many of
these nations is "one of deference . . . the willing
obedience of people to higher authority and their conformity
to a rigid set of social norms." In other words, they're
still liberal democracies at or near the end of history
because these people have exercised their preference to
subordinate themselves to authority. This is precisely the
kind of tautological argument that authoritarian regimes have
used for ages to justify their "People's Republics" and
"Democratic Republics" of this or that fame.
   The basic problem with all Grand Theories is that they try
to prove too much on the basis of too little evidence. This
is my Grand Theory about Grand Theories. Mr. Fukuyama's is no
exception to the rule. We are living through dramatic times
all right, but to insist on a single overarching explanation
is premature at best. Many things can happen on the high road
to democracy -- think, for instance, of Ukraine. Mr. Fukuyama
makes no allowance for madness -- a lunatic with a throne and
a bomber squadron -- or for bad luck.
   Perhaps, in the end, it is Mr. Fukuyama's overwhelming
optimism -- his breathless, buoyant confidence that
everything is working out just as we had always hoped -- that
seems most hasty. Yes, the Cold War has ended, and,
unmistakably, our side has won. This is cause for
celebration. And yet the perils ahead cannot be ignored. We
celebrated after each of the previous world wars, but history
did not end with either of them.
   Choices (a), (b) and (c) at the start of this review
strike me as equally plausible directions in which history
may move in the years ahead. The tectonic tensions now
growing beneath the surface of world politics have less to do
with the old clash between capitalism and communism than with
a new contest between global economic integration and
tribalism. The former is pulling societies tightly together.
Mr. Fukuyama shares my view that the national flag flying
over a factory is as irrelevant to the future well-being of a
nation's citizens as is its balance of trade.
   But, at the same time, deepening ethnic allegiances are
exerting powerful forces in the opposite direction, which may
cause the world to fragment into small, suspicious enclaves.
Indeed, economic integration may be fomenting tribalism -- as
individuals search for new means of asserting their
collective identities, now that nationstates are becoming
economically irrelevant.
   Which will it be? In his eagerness to satisfy, Mr.
Fukuyama avoids the hard questions.
   ---
   Mr. Reich, author of "The Work of Nations," teaches
political economy at Harvard's Kennedy School of Government.