Your Money Matters -- Taxes 1992:
   Uncle Sam Alters the Rules and Makes
   Tax Return Time a Year-Round Ordeal
   ----
   By Lynn Asinof
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Just when you thought you were done with your taxes, Uncle
Sam has found a way to extend the pain -- changes to both the
withholding and estimated tax rules.
   That means a lot of people are going to be busy
calculating how their 1992 tax bills will match up with what
they'll pay the government before April 15, 1993. Those who
don't do their math may end up owing the government, and for
some the amount could be substantial.
   Doing this tax homework is always a good idea. It keeps
taxpayers from making an interest-free loan to the government
by having too much taken out of their paychecks.
Alternatively, it protects against the shock of the big tax
bill and interest penalties that come from paying too little.
But with this year's changes, fine-tuning is now more
important to many.
   The first change comes from President Bush's new lower
withholding limits. This will put a few more dollars in
taxpayers' pockets during 1992, by reducing the amount
withheld each pay period, but will shrink the size of the
refund they get in 1993 or eliminate it altogether.
   The government won't penalize taxpayers for being
underwithheld because of the presidential change. And
financial experts usually advise against being overwithheld.
"People are better off owing a little bit," says Andrea
Markezin, senior tax manager at Ernst  Young, New York. "You
have the use of your money and can invest it as you see fit."
   But many people aren't happy about the change. They like
the forced savings that come from overwithholding and just
hate the idea of writing a check with their returns.
   A bigger headache will be estimated taxes, due quarterly
from those who either pay no withholding or whose tax bill
exceeds the amount withheld from their paychecks. In the
past, taxpayers were safe from penalties as long as their
withholding and estimated taxes combined equaled at least
100% of the previous year's tax bill. Now that option has
been eliminated for many. Beginning with the 1992 tax year,
their payments will have to equal at least 90% of their tax
liability or they will face interest penalties.
   The change affects "a large portion of the professional
and investor population," says William J. Goldberg, national
director of personal financial planning services at KPMG Peat
Marwick.
   The new rule applies to individuals and couples who have
more than $75,000 of adjusted gross income and have a $40,000
increase from the previous year. The limits for married
people filing separately are $37,500 in adjusted gross income
with an increase of $20,000 or more. Exempt from the rule:
people who haven't paid estimated taxes in three years and
those whose gain came from the sale of their principal
residence.
   Doctors, lawyers, accountants, authors, artists,
consultants and others who find their income fluctuates from
year to year may have to calculate their taxes four times a
year instead of just once, says Barry Salzberg, a partner at
Deloitte  Touche, New York. "It will cause them to do mini
tax returns for each quarter to assure penalty avoidance," he
says.
   Also affected will be people who have a lot of investment
income, executives with larger-than-expected bonuses, couples
where one spouse is returning to work after a long hiatus
such as a maternity leave, and even retirees who receive a
lump-sum distribution.
   "It is going to require a lot of people to sit down and
make computations that they aren't used to making," says
Terrence G. Perris, tax partner with Squire, Sanders 
Dempsey, Cleveland.
   Taxpayers can rely on the previous year's tax figures to
come up with their first quarterly payment April 15. But come
June 15, estimated payments must comply with the 90%
requirement.
   That means people will have only 15 days from May 31 --
the end of the second quarterly measurement period -- to come
up with their figures. If you have income from partnerships
or S corporations, that could be trouble, since they rarely
close their books that fast. Moreover, the numbers aren't
always accurate. "In today's economy, you can't get those
numbers with any sense of precision," says Michael B.
Kennedy, tax partner in the Philadelphia office of Coopers 
Lybrand.
   One break: People who have less than a 10% interest in a
partnership or S corporation and aren't general partners can
rely on the prior year's income as a "safe harbor" for this
portion of their income.
   The bottom line? That depends on whom you ask. "The
practical effect is going to be that a lot of people will
overpay," says Cleveland tax attorney Mr. Perris, noting
taxpayers will err on the side of caution to avoid penalties.
   But others say taxpayers may simply ignore the whole
thing, choosing to pay the interest penalty rather than
wrangling with accountants and tax preparation bills that
could be significantly higher than before. "I think many will
do that," says Mr. Salzberg of Deloitte  Touche. "Perhaps
the penalty is not all that significant" when balanced
against having use of those tax funds.
   Still others expect a taxpayers' revolt to force the
government to come up with a more workable policy. Anger is
high among some affected groups, and legislation is already
in Congress. The opposition will only grow as people come to
grips with their first estimated tax payment, says Stuart
Kessler, senior tax partner at Goldstein, Golub  Kessler,
New York. "It hasn't dawned on people yet."
   ---
     Making a Mistake on Estimated Taxes Can Be Costly
                                                                                                       

   Penalties are relatively small for taxpayers whose
estimated-tax payments are off by a few thousand dollars. But
bigger mistakes get costly, as do mistakes repeated over
several quarters.
                                                                                                       

                                            Penalty for
                                            deficiency in
                             Penalty for    second quarter
            Maximum penalty  deficiency     that is repeated
            if deficiency    in second      in third and
 Amount of  paid with next   quarter if     fourth quarters
 Tax        estimated-tax    unpaid until   and unpaid until
 Deficiency installment      April 15,      April 15, 1993
            Maximum Penalty  1993
                                                                                                       

 $ 5,000        $150          $  374           $  745
  10,000         300             748            1,490
  15,000         450           1,122            2,235
  20,000         600           1,496            2,980
  25,000         750           1,870            3,725
                                                                                                       

   Figures are based on a 9% penalty rate. There are no
penalties for first-quarter deficiencies since taxpayers can
rely on the previous year's tax bill for that payment.
                                                                                                       

   Source: KPMG Peat Marwick
   ---
   Today's Your Money Matters column is the last in the
Journal's "Taxes 1992" series. Reprints by fax of any of the
previous four articles are available ($5 each story) by
calling JournalFinder at 1-900-FIND-WSJ. Following the voice
prompts, enter your fax number and the three-digit ID number
shown after each story:
   -- Changes for the 1991 tax year (Feb. 24) 380
   -- Mistakes and missed opportunities (Feb. 25) 381
   -- Tips for mutual-fund investors (Feb. 26) 382
   -- Getting help and filing electronically (Feb. 27) 383
Mail orders (also $5 each story) can be sent to Dow Jones 
Co., Dept. LC, 200 Burnett Road, Chicopee, MA 01020. Payments
must accompany order.