International:
   Senate Votes to Set Conditions on China
   Before Renewing Favored-Nation Status
   ----
   By Eduardo Lachica
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The measure would bar the president from renewing China's
MFN status for another 12-month period after this June unless
China improves its behavior on human rights, removes a
multitude of barriers to U.S. exports and cooperates with
Western countries in preventing the proliferation of
long-range missiles and nuclear and chemical weapons.
   Most-favored-nation status is the trade treatment the U.S.
confers on nations with whom it is on good terms; most
trading partners have that status.
   In 1990, Mr. Bush's veto threat was enough to put off
Senate action on the same measure, although the House had
approved it 384-30. The odds are somewhat tougher for the
White House this year. The House vote was an overwhelming
409-21. Yesterday's winning Senate majority, although not
veto-proof, was enlarged by votes from lawmakers worried
about the impact on U.S. jobs of China's record $12.7 billion
trade surplus with the U.S. last year.
   Majority Leader George Mitchell, the bill's prime mover in
the Senate, charged that Mr. Bush's policy of negotiating for
political reforms in China has failed. "It is time for a
stronger policy," he said.
   Minority Leader Robert Dole, insisting that China "is on
the way to economic reform," led the debate for the
administration.
   The bill's list of specific conditions is long, and
probably unacceptable to Beijing's hard-liners. The Chinese
are being asked, among other things, to release nonviolent
dissidents, end religious persecution in Tibet, and guarantee
freedom of assembly and of the media.
   The bill also would set civil penalties of up to $1
million for any person violating a longstanding U.S. law
against importing goods made with prison labor. Several
congressmen suspect that some convict-made Chinese goods are
landing in the U.S. despite Beijing's claims to the contrary.
   The administration has been pressing for reforms in
China's behavior, but it insists that stripping that country
of its most-favored-nation status would be the "wrong
instrument." A U.S. trade official called the legislation an
"undiscriminating blockbuster that hurts friends and foes
alike."
   The administration contends that loss of
most-favored-nation status would be a "body blow" to Hong
Kong, depriving it of the benefit of handling $4.6 billion in
shipments of goods from China annually and turning much of
its investments in southern China sour.
   The administration also warns that U.S. consumers would
suffer from a U.S. reversion to high tariffs on Chinese goods
that date back to the protectionist 1930s. Without
most-favored-nation status, for instance, duties on Chinese
footwear would rise to 35% from 6%, duties on Chinese
sweaters would jump to 60% from 6%, and those on Chinese
stuffed toys would rise to 70% from 6.8%.
   Before yesterday's vote, the Senate went into closed
session to hear an hourand-a-half intelligence briefing on
China.