International:
   Ruling Over Perrier Appears to Increase
   Possibility Nestle Will Offer Counterbid
   ----
   By E.S. Browning
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Following that decision, a Nestle spokesman at company
headquarters in Vevey, Switzerland, said "the chances for a
successful bid for Perrier have gone up." Asked whether
Nestle now would counter its adversaries' own recent bid for
Perrier, he replied, "We are thinking about all
possibilities."
   Perrier shares rose Friday to 1,568 French francs ($276)
from 1,540 francs Thursday.
   Under French regulations, a new bid wouldn't have to go
above 1,505 francs -- 2% more than the Agnelli group's
current bid. The fact that Perrier is trading well above that
level indicates that many investors are betting on a lengthy
battle. Both the Exor and Nestle bids value Perrier at 6.05
billion francs ($1.07 billion).
   The Exor-Societe Generale companies control 35.5% of
Perrier shares. Bourse regulations require any investor or
group of investors to make a public announcement when their
stake in a company surpasses 33.3%, something the court
decided the Agnelli allies failed to do in May 1990. That was
well before the Agnellis, who control Italian auto giant Fiat
S.p.A., got involved with Exor and Perrier.
   The court did stop short of granting Nestle's request that
the Exor group's voting rights be suspended for five years.
   Exor said it wouldn't immediately appeal the decision,
although it retained the right to do so later.
   Before the court decision, the Agnelli group, including
Exor, Societe Generale and other Agnelli allies, controlled a
total of 49.3% of Perrier voting rights, making a hostile bid
for Perrier difficult. The decision temporarily reduces that
total to 37.5%, making a hostile bid less difficult.
   The Agnellis began buying Exor shares about a year ago, in
a friendly arrangement with Exor's founding family. The
Agnellis now control nearly 40% of Exor shares, and the
founding family holds 14.1%.
   The Agnellis acquired their Exor stake in the expectation
that it also would give them control of Perrier. But Nestle
in January launched a hostile bid for Perrier, at 1,475
francs a share. It also launched two separate legal actions
contesting the validity of some of the Agnelli group's voting
rights in Perrier.
   Under pressure from regulators, Exor launched a counterbid
for Perrier in February. It bid the same price as Nestle, but
promised to buy all shares tendered. Nestle had reserved the
right to withdraw its bid if less than 50% of Perrier shares
were tendered.
   The next court decision in this battle comes in one week,
when a Paris court rules on the validity of the 13.8% Perrier
stake acquired this past January by another Agnelli ally,
food and paper group Saint Louis S.A.