International:
   World Wire
   ----
   Compiled by Richard L. Holman
Pravda, the former Soviet Communist Party's newspaper
founded 80 years ago by Vladimir Lenin, suspended publication
indefinitely. Several million dollars in debt after being cut
loose from the Kremlin, the paper only a week and a half ago
had cut back to three issues a week from six.
   Pravda, which means "truth," mirrored Moscow's policy in
the Cold War era. Circulation had once totaled 13 million,
but recently had fallen to 1.5 million.
   Editors of the independent paper blamed the suspension on
the new political climate and on Russia's economic reforms
that sent newsprint and distribution costs soaring. They said
the government, which controls the presses, undermined Pravda
by demanding advance payment of two months' costs. The
editors asserted that the republic wanted to silence Pravda,
a rallying point for Communists opposed to President Boris
Yeltsin and his radical reforms.
   The paper was trying to find loans to cover its debts and
resume publishing.
                                                                                                       

   CHINA ENDORSES PORT PROJECT
                                                                                                       

   Beijing endorsed rapid development of a foreign-funded
port, reflecting China's new priority on economic reform.
Kumagai Gumi Co. of Japan, a development firm, has sought for
nearly four years to lease 18.6 square miles in Yangpu on the
southern island province of Hainan for an unprecedented
foreign-controlled industrial park and port. The Yangpu and
other projects were frozen after the 1989 pro-democracy
uprising was quelled. The Yangpu development calls for an
export-oriented industrial zone, on which Kumagai Gumi's Hong
Kong unit is to get a 70-year lease. Foreign businesses there
will be promised management freedom.
                                                                                                       

   JAPAN'S NEW BUDGET APPROVED
                                                                                                       

   Following weeks of struggle for a compromise on political
reforms, Japan's Diet, or parliament, passed a 72.2 trillion
yen ($538.18 billion) budget that will speed up public-works
spending to help stimulate the stagnating economy. The
spending plan for the year starting April 1 had been stalled
over a bribery scandal, until the ruling Liberal Democratic
Party won opposition support for the compromise budget with
pledges to clean up political corruption. The LDP also agreed
to consider opposition proposals for increased spending on
the environment and social welfare, as well as tax cuts in
low-income brackets.
                                                                                                       

   OBJECTIONS ABOUT U.S. TRADE
                                                                                                       

   Australia, deriding trade based on politics and not
commerce, will lodge a complaint with the General Agreement
on Tariffs and Trade about U.S. pressure on Japan to buy U.S.
car parts at the expense of other suppliers.
   Canberra already has protested to Washington and Tokyo the
plan for Japan to increase sharply its imports from the U.S.
The plan amounts to "managed trade and could harm our
exports," said an official in Australia, the fourth-largest
exporter of cars and parts to Japan.
   Separately, the European Community, worried about its
growing trade deficit with China, pressed Beijing to open its
markets to more international competition. EC officials
visiting China said its discriminatory trade policies
unfairly favor the U.S., which Beijing has denied. The EC is
China's second-largest trading partner.
   In Hong Kong, the colony estimated it could lose more than
91 billion Hong Kong dollars (US$11.75 billion) in trade,
HK$12 billion in revenue and 44,000 jobs if the U.S. fails to
renew China's most-favored nation trading status. The Hong
Kong and Chinese economy have grown increasingly integrated.
                                                                                                       

   TOKYO UNVEILS IMPORT SPUR
                                                                                                       

   To boost imports of manufactured goods, the Export-Import
Bank of Japan unveiled a two-year credit line for firms that
plan to increase those imports 10% from year-earlier levels.
The bank could provide 200 billion yen ($1.49 billion) a
year, with repayment over five years at 5.05% to 5.5%
interest. The bank's previous import-promotion credits
focused on capital goods, but the new program, part of the
U.S.-Japan Global Partnership Action Plan, aims at
intermediate and small goods.
                                                                                                       

   UKRAINE CLEARS WAY FOR LOANS
                                                                                                       

   Ukraine's agreement to shoulder with other republics the
former Soviet Union's estimated $89 billion in foreign debt
may convince Western nations to free millions of dollars of
credits. Ukraine previously insisted on repaying only its
share, about 16%, of the debt.
   The Ukrainian government had balked at collective
responsibility for the debt, fearing getting stuck for a
greater share if any member of the Commonwealth of
Independent States defaulted.
   At a CIS meeting in Moscow, Ukraine decided to sign last
year's repayment pact that followed talks with the Group of
Seven industrialized nations. The G-7, except Canada, has
refused to grant Ukraine badly needed credits unless it
signed.
   Meanwhile, commercial bank lenders will keep a tight rein
on CIS debt by extending a moratorium on principal payments
in 90-day increments after March 31, Western financial
sources said. Creditor governments may allow longer
extensions as breathing room for lasting reforms.
                                                                                                       

   POSTSCRIPTS . . .
                                                                                                       

   The Philippines will receive more than $1.5 billion in new
assistance from overseas donors for economic reforms. . . .
Colombia today will triple to six hours daily its residential
electricity blackouts, begun March 2 for a three-month
period. Drought has reduced to critical levels reservoirs
that produce power. . . . The U.S. opened a diplomatic
mission in Moldova, one of the poorer former Soviet
republics.