Sale of Stake
   In American
   Express Unit Set
   ----
   By Peter Pae
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
"It's an extremely positive move," said E. Wilson Davis,
an analyst with securities firm Gerard Klauer Mattison  Co.
The stock market reacted favorably to the announcement.
American Express shares were quoted at $22.25, up $1.625 in
late trading on the New York Stock Exchange yesterday.
   "The public offering will raise substantial funds for
American Express that will be available for general corporate
purposes at a time when a strong capital base is especially
important for financial services companies," said James D.
Robinson III, chairman.
   While American Express is in no imminent danger, it would
like to bolster its capital base to get a stronger credit
rating so it can raise operating funds more inexpensively in
the credit markets. American Express's senior debt is rated
single-A-1 by Moody's Investors Service Inc., which in
November downgraded the debt from double-A-2.
   American Express has been looking to shed or sell parts of
businesses in a drive to raise capital. It has put on the
block its insurance subsidiary, which could bring in as much
as $500 million, and has tentatively scheduled the sale of a
home mortgage business for $238 million. In addition, the
company has been considering the partial sale of its Lehman
Brothers investment bank for as much as $1 billion.
   Plans to sell a stake in the data processing subsidiary
had not been previously disclosed. While the move will reduce
future earnings, analysts say that the money it raises will
cut the company's debt load and boost capital meaningfully.
   The data processing unit would be renamed First Data Corp.
under the registration filing American Express expects to
make this week. The filing will disclose the pricing for the
shares and identify the underwriters for the offering, an
American Express spokesman said.
   After the public sale, American Express said it
anticipates selling new shares issued by First Data, in which
it would still have controlling interest. The company said it
has no current plans to sell more than 35% to 45% of its
stake in the business.
   Acquired in 1980, the subsidiary has grown through a
number of acquisitions to generate more than $900 million in
annual revenue for American Express. In 1991, the unit posted
net income of $118 million, up 15% from 1990.
   "The planned offering will let us realize part of our
investment in First Data, add to its capital base and provide
it with access to the capital markets," said Mr. Robinson.