Technology  Medicine:
   Boehringer Ingelheim's New Heart Drug
   Succumbs to Fear Over Rival's Failure
   ----
   By Jerry E. Bishop
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Sterling Drug Co., owned by Eastman Kodak, has twice tried
-- and failed -- to develop digitalis-like drugs. The last
attempt, a drug called milrinone, had to be abandoned in 1989
in late stages of its clinical trials, when researchers found
the death rate for patients taking the drug was 28% higher
than among those who weren't taking it.
   A report of a major clinical trial, showing pimobendan is
both safe and effective in patients with moderate-to-severe
heart failure, appears in the March issue of Circulation, a
journal of the American Heart Association. Physicians are
receiving the journal this week.
   "The results are extremely encouraging," showing that
pimobendan boosted the exercise capacity of patients with
failing hearts, improved their quality of life and had few
adverse effects, said Spencer H. Kubo, the University of
Minnesota heart specialist who headed a team of researchers
from 20 medical centers who have been testing pimobendan.
   "We are very encouraged and feel strongly that this drug
warrants additional consideration," Dr. Kubo said. But, he
added, "It is our understanding that the company has made a
decision not to develop this drug further."
   Such a decision was made just last week, confirmed Jan
Troha, associated director of clinical research at Boehringer
Ingelheim, Ridgefield, Conn., the U.S. unit of the German
drug maker, Boehringer Ingelheim International G.m.b.H.
   "This {decision} may seem strange coming on the heels of
reports like the one in Circulation," Ms. Troha said. The
reason, she said, was that the company believed that
regulators would force it to undertake an unusually large
clinical trial of pimobendan to make sure it didn't decrease
survival of patients as milrinone had. "We're tinted with the
same brush until proven otherwise," she explained.
   Such a "survival trial" would involve at least 2,000
patients and cost tens of millions of dollars, she said. The
trial would take resources away from other drugs the company
wants to develop, she said. Boehringer Ingelheim, however, is
considering licensing others to take on pimobendan, Ms. Troha
said. The drug is not yet on the market anywhere in the
world, she added.
   The report in Circulation by the Pimobendan Multicenter
Research Group, headed by Dr. Kubo, describes the effects of
pimobendan in three different dosages compared with effects
of a placebo, over a 12-week period. Middle-aged and elderly
patients involved in the study were in the moderate-to-severe
stages of heart failure, despite treatment with digitalis,
diuretics and other drugs.
   The most effective dose, 5.0 milligrams per day, added two
minutes to the average time patients could exercise on a
treadmill as compared with only a half-minute added for the
placebo patients. Scores on a questionnaire about each
patient's quality of life showed the greatest improvement for
patients taking the 5.0 milligram dose. The incidence of
adverse effects was about the same in those taking pimobendan
as in those taking the placebo.
   ---
   Corrections  Amplifications
                                                                                                       

   EASTMAN KODAK Co.'s Sterling Winthrop unit has been
selling intravenous versions of milrinone and amrinone for
several years. Friday's edition didn't specify that it was
only the pill versions of these two heart drugs that had
failed clinical testing.
   (WSJ March 9, 1992)