Letters to the Editor:
   Dear Ma Bell: Yes, Let's Compete
Much of the rhetoric that has surfaced to mark the 10th
anniversary of divestiture -- including Mr. Allen's statement
-- attempts to rewrite history by telling only half the
story. For example, it's true that long-distance rates are
lower today than they were before divestiture. They are lower
because long-distance no longer has to subsidize local
service. The subsidizing amount has simply shifted away from
long-distance and become part of local service. In fact, FCC
data show that real local-service increases, nationwide,
average only one-half percent a year since divestiture.
   Importantly, local-service competition has now been
authorized in most states. Today, ATT or any other company,
if it chooses, can enter the local telephone-service business
and provide local service to as many or as few customers as
it chooses. The Bell companies, on the other hand, may
provide service only within court-defined calling areas.
   ATT may manufacture. The Bell companies may not. Is it
"real competition" to permit ATT to enter any line of
business while prohibiting the Bell companies from being
ATT's competitors in certain businesses?
   Barring the regional Bell companies from manufacturing not
only has denied consumer choice, but also has weakened the
U.S. economy by limiting the economic contribution the
telecommunications industry could make. Here are the facts:
   -- While the Bell companies have been barred from
manufacturing, the U.S. has continued to export
telecommunications jobs. A DRI/McGraw-Hill study revealed
that the ban on manufacturing by the year 2000 will suppress
creation of as many as 14,000 to 32,000 jobs in New Jersey
alone.
   -- Without question, work that once was done in the U.S.
is done offshore today. ATT now imports 100% of the
consumer-telephone equipment and 80% of the parts of the
network-switching equipment it sells.
   -- Since 1983, ATT has closed or reduced the work force
at 30 U.S. manufacturing plants and eliminated 60,000 U.S.
jobs, while investing in overseas manufacturing in 16 other
countries and creating 20,000 new jobs in those countries.
Exporting manufacturing jobs may have made ATT more
competitive, but the U.S. worker and consumer have paid the
price.
   It's time the consumer harvested the benefits of
divestiture by having real choice in selecting providers of
all telecommunications service. This is why Ameritech has
championed full competition in all parts of the
telecommunications industry, including local telephone
service. Consumers will benefit from competition only when
anyone may provide any aspect of telecommunications service.
This is why Ameritech developed a plan, now authorized by the
Federal Communications Commission, to sell discrete portions
of our network services to anyone who wants to buy them in
order to package them for resale. This is why we opened our
network to alternative service providers.
   It's time the policy makers remembered that creating real
competition is what divestiture was really all about. It
wasn't about creating a veiled monopoly or duopoly in
manufacturing. It wasn't about denying consumers the power of
choosing to buy from among all interested
telecommunications-service providers.
   Let consumers decide where they want to buy, from whom
they will buy and which competitors will thrive. That's what
divestiture was intended to accomplish. That's what consumer
interest demands. Ten years after divestiture, we shouldn't
settle for less.
   William L. Weiss
   Chairman and CEO
   Ameritech
   Chicago