International:
   Britain's Major Sets Election for April 9
   ---
   Tories Face a Tough Fight
   As the Recession Lingers,
   Labor Party Gains Favor
   ----
   By Craig Forman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
After three landslide victories and more than a decade in
power, the Tories are in trouble, and Mr. Major is only
narrowly favored to hold onto his job.
   Britain is stuck in the worst economic recession since
World War II. And the Tories will be facing voters burnt by
the hated "poll tax" and angry about cuts to health and
social services. There is a feeling that the Tories'
once-radical policies have caused Britain's malaise and that
the country is ready for a change.
   Thus this election shapes up as a referendum on whether
Conservatism will succeed after Thatcherism. The reign of the
party that launched a supply-side revolution, tamed the trade
unions and transformed the welfare state may be drawing to a
close.
   "I am fed up," says retired army Capt. John Headlam, son
of a former prominent Tory politician, who has voted Tory for
more than half a century. "I'm angry about the poll tax, high
interest rates, unemployment, homelessness. This country is
in a mess that the Tories themselves have made." Though his
father "would spin in his grave," Capt. Headlam says he won't
vote Tory this time. "We've got to get rid of them."
   Following his ceremonial drive to Buckingham Palace to ask
the queen's approval for a dissolution of Parliament, Mr.
Major declared that voters faced a clear choice between "a
Conservative Party committed to low taxation, greater
individual choice and greater independence, or a principal
opposition party committed to many policies that proved so
disastrous in years gone past."
   For voters, the choice isn't so clear. On Tuesday, the
Conservative government launched a budget that doubles
Britain's annual debt and uses the borrowing to finance tax
cuts. The major initiative is a #100 ($172) tax cut on the
first #2,000 in taxable income. A government official
acknowledged that the tax break, which will cost the
government #1.5 billion, is a bribe "aimed narrowly at
undecided voters."
   But voters didn't seem to be impressed. For the past year,
the Tories and Labor parties have been neck-and-neck in the
polls, each with about 40%, while the upstart Liberal
Democrats have under 20%. Yesterday, a poll in the Guardian
newspaper showed Labor edging ahead by three percentage
points to 42%; the Tories had 39% and the Liberal Democrats
15%.
   Labor has made itself more attractive to voters by
clarifying what it won't do if it wins office. In recent
years, Labor leader Neil Kinnock has moved the party away
from its extreme left fringe, abandoning pledges of
unilateral nuclear disarmament, a withdrawal from the
European Community and renationalization of all the #40
billion of state assets sold off by the Tories.
   It's less clear what Labor would do if it wins, because
the party hasn't published its campaign platform. However,
senior officials hint that the party will raise taxes but
also spend more on health and social services. Labor says it
could finance the increased spending by pushing the
wealthiest Britons back into a 50% tax bracket from 40%, and
by increasing payroll taxes. It might renationalize the
now-private monopolies in water supply and electricity. But
it would probably leave British Petroleum PLC and British
Telecommunications PLC alone.
   Thus, taxes and the economy loom as the issues that will
decide the election. Robert Worcester, chairman of Market 
Opinion Research International Ltd., a polling firm, says a
crucial half-million undecided voters will swing the ballot's
outcome. "If one party can win just a point or two in the
polls, that's the party that will win the election," says Mr.
Worcester.
   While fooling with the budget may be enough to give the
Tories a slim parliamentary majority, the party is likely to
be substantially weakened, losing well over a dozen seats and
materially cutting their current 40-seat majority. Such a
result could raise questions about the party's mandate and
hamstring the Tories' attempts to continue the free-market
agenda Mrs. Thatcher began.
   And if tax cuts fail to generate more support, the Tories
could easily lose even if Labor doesn't cleanly win. That's
because the April 9 ballot could produce a hung Parliament,
in which neither the Conservatives nor Labor command an
absolute majority.
   The result would be paralysis. Though Mr. Major could
still attempt to form a government, the Tories would face
frequent no-confidence motions. A hung Parliament would
likely result in yet another general election. The earliest
replay might be in the autumn, though Mr. Major might be able
to hold on for a year.
   "A hung Parliament would be the worst outcome -- no one
would know what to expect," says Douglas Ferrans, director of
Scottish Amicable Investment Managers, one of Britain's
biggest institutional investors. He says the London stock
market could drop by more than 150 points, and the pound
would plunge because of the uncertainty.
   In previous elections, the Tories could blame Labor for
Britain's problems. But today's recession is largely the
Tories' making, the consequence of high interest rates aimed
at snuffing out inflation stemming from the Tory boom of the
1980s. Home repossessions and business failures are at record
levels, and unemployment is rising toward the three million
mark set during Mrs. Thatcher's darkest days after the 1979
general election.
   The scope of Britain's recession is reflected in block
upon block of closed businesses on King's Road in London.
This once-vibrant shopping street was Yuppie Central in the
Thatcher years. But Thatcher's boom has turned to Major's
bust.
   "There's no way I'd vote Tory," says Lucy Velarde, who
supervises a silent cash register in a fabric shop. "The poll
tax, the high interest rates, the recession -- it's the
Tories' fault."
   Despite Mr. Major's attempts to distinguish himself from
Mrs. Thatcher with his caring capitalism, Britain remains as
divided as ever between those who are making it and those who
aren't. Last week, television news here showed the first
criminal arrests of people refusing to pay the poll tax, a
per-capita charge levied regardless of income that the Tories
are phasing out but which isn't forgotten. The Tories are
replacing the poll tax with a so-called council tax. But
voters are still angry.