Credit Markets:
   Bond Prices Continue to Decline on Perception
   That an Economic Recovery Is Looming Ahead
   ----
   By Lynn K. Adler and Anita Raghavan
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
The 30-year issue's yield, which moves in the opposite
direction as price, rose to 7.67%, about where it stood prior
to the Fed's aggressive full-point discount rate cut on Dec.
20. Following that move, yields on the benchmark bond fell as
low as 7.35%.
   Traders said a host of factors contributed to yesterday's
sell-off, including a big commodities price rise, dealer
selling to hedge a huge wave of corporate debt issuance and
heightened concerns that any new fiscal stimulus package
proposed by the White House or Congress will be inflationary.
   But most analysts agree with Tokai Bank's chief economist,
Robert McGee, who contends the major reason behind the
market's plunge is that "people are starting to believe that
better economic times are inevitable."
   They disagree, however, on whether the current market
deterioration is the start of something bigger or is just a
temporary correction to a rally.
   "I think we're on the way further down. The risk is for an
8% to 8.25% yield on the bond," says Douglas Schindewolf, a
money market economist at Smith Barney, Harris Upham  Co.
Without all signs pointing to further economic weakness,
"supply is also becoming a big threat to the market," and
there will be plenty of supply to digest, he adds.
   Of the opposite opinion is Anthony Karydakis, senior
financial economist at First National Bank of Chicago. He
contends that "what is going on right now is primarily the
result of an extremely negative psychology set off by
irrational fears. If there's going to be {an economic}
recovery, it will be moderate so it won't jeopardize the
inflation picture."
   He adds, "the behavior of the market in last week or so is
a major hiccup, not the beginning of a sustainable upturn in
rates."
   The yield curve, or the gap between short-term and
long-term interest rates, widened considerably, with Treasury
bill rates falling as yields on long-term bonds spurted.
   The bellwether 30-year bond now yields 3.80 percentage
points more than the bond-equivalent yield on three-month
Treasury bills, much wider than the 3.64 percentage point
spread quoted late Wednesday and the 3.54 percentage point
spread seen a month ago.
   Meanwhile, although the M2 money supply measure fell by a
huge $12.8 billion in the week ended Jan. 6, far exceeding
expectations, that news failed to stem the long Treasury
bond's deterioration. A $5.3 billion M2 decline was the
average forecast from economists polled by Dow Jones Capital
Markets Report.
   Today, at 8:30 a.m. EST, the U.S. November trade balance
is scheduled to be released. Based on a survey of economists
by Dow Jones Capital Markets Report, the deficit is seen
narrowing to $6.4 billion, from $6.73 billion in October.
   U.S. industrial production and capacity utilization for
December also are due out today.
                                                                                                       

   Corporate  Junk Bonds
                                                                                                       

   Corporations continued to bombard investors with new bonds
and notes amid a sharp rise in interest rates.
   More than $1.5 billion of debt securities were sold in the
corporate market yesterday, with Hydro-Quebec, the Canadian
utility, weighing in with $1 billion of the new debt offered.
Also in the market were a number of U.S. corporations, such
as Fleet/Norstar Financial Group Inc. and Woolworth Corp.
   Hydro-Quebec's $1 billion of 30-year debentures were
priced to yield 8.467%. The noncallable debentures were
priced at a spread of 0.85 percentage point above the
Treasury's 30-year bond.
   Even though the $1 billion Hydro-Quebec issue was offered
near the end of a heavy week of financing, traders said the
bonds met with brisk demand.
   In the secondary market for investment-grade corporate
debt, prices of high-grade bonds ended as much as 1 point
lower.
   In the junk bond market, high-yield bonds, or
speculative-grade bonds with low credit ratings or no credit
ratings at all, generally ended little changed.
                                                                                                       

   Municipal Bonds
                                                                                                       

   Prices of municipal bonds ended as much as a point lower
in volatile trading.
   Among seasoned names, the Denver airport system's
bellwether bond, the 7.75% issue of 2021, was down 1 at 97
3/4 to yield 7.96%.
   In limited new issue action, underwriters at Merrill Lynch
 Co. reported an unsold balance of about $63 million on an
offering of $140.7 million of Norfolk, Va., general
obligation capital improvement and refunding bonds.
   The bonds, won in a competitive sale, were priced to yield
from 2.75% in 1993 to 6.25% in 2010-2012.
   The bonds are rated double-A by both Moody's Investors
Service Inc. and Standard  Poor's Corp.
                                                                                                       

   Mortgage  Asset-Backed Securities
                                                                                                       

   Mortgage securities resumed their descent in sympathy with
Treasurys, proving Wednesday's stability to be just a brief
respite.
   In secondary trading, Government National Mortgage
Association 7.5% securities for delivery in February were
11/32 weaker at 98 16/32, Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp.
Gold 7.5% securities were down 14/32 to 97 16/32 and Federal
National Mortgage Association 7.5% securities were 14/32
lower at 97 11/32.
   These securities have been sliding since last Friday, when
a surprise rise in December employment sparked concerns that
the economy's worst period has past.
   Still, mortgage securities didn't lose as much ground as
Treasurys yesterday thanks to continued dealer demand for
collateral for real estate mortgage investment conduit
offerings. Remic issuance got off to a heated start early
this year, and there is no sign of any let-up, market players
note.
   Yesterday's Treasury yield curve steepening, in which
short-term rates fell while bond yields jumped, makes Remic
issuance more attractive. Most class of Remic deals are tied
to short-term Treasury securities yields.
   Two Freddie Mac Remic offerings totaling $1.4 billion were
announced, after Wednesday's $1.2 billion of Freddie Mac
Remic securities.
   Analysts at Donaldson, Lufkin  Jenrette Securities Corp.
write that Remic "issuance last week was the heaviest on
record, as 17 new deals and four upsizings totaling $7.3
billion were priced."
   Remic activity "was the dominant force last week," they
add. The collateral for these deals "varied across the
spectrum of coupons, and with market sentiment extremely
varied as to the direction of interest rates and expected
prepayments, these conditions will likely persist."
   Collateral was again diverse for yesterday's new issues.
The $1 billion Freddie Mac series Gold 1212 was backed by the
agency's Gold 8% mortgage securities, while the $400 million
Freddie Mac series Gold 1211 was collateralized with the
agency's Gold 15-year 7.5% mortgage securities.