Foreign Exchange:
   Dollar Rises Sharply Amid Rumors
   And Dealers Rush In to Avoid Big Losses
   ----
   By John van Rosendaal
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
Many dealers, who had bet the U.S. currency would drop,
then scrambled to buy dollars to defend themselves against
major losses on short, or oversold, positions.
   During its rally, the dollar broke several key technical
chart points, which extended the upward move. Many traders
use charts to estimate levels at which the dollar should be
sold or bought.
   The U.S. currency rose as high as 1.5710 marks and 126.45
yen around midday New York time but softened later.
   In late New York trading, the dollar was quoted at 1.5590
marks, up sharply from 1.5075 marks late Wednesday. The U.S.
currency also was changing hands at 125.81 yen, up 1.2% from
124.35 yen. Sterling was trading at $1.8160, down 3.3% from
$1.8780.
   In early trading in Tokyo Friday, the dollar was at 126.10
yen, up from 124.65 yen at Thursday's close, and at 1.5570
marks, up from 1.5273 marks Thursday.
   "I'm still shocked about the extent of the move," said Tom
Hoge, a corporate trader at Bank of New York. He added that
he didn't expect the dollar to surge on a mere combination of
rumors, with little concrete information to back up the
perception of future dollar strength.
   The dollar initially rose on a report in the afternoon
edition of Nihon Keizai Shimbun, a Japanese business daily.
The paper stated that at a meeting later this month of the
Group of Seven major industrialized nations, "each European
country, {feeling} recent foreign exchange movements have
gone too far, will confront the U.S." to urge a correction of
the dollar's recent decline. The G-7's European members are
Germany, the U.K., France and Italy; the U.S., Japan and
Canada are the others.
   Although traders said they were wary of the report's
accuracy, the article spurred sales of marks for dollars,
sparking the rally. Indeed, later reports, quoting
unidentified European monetary sources, said the G-7 finance
ministers and central bankers aren't expected to focus on the
dollar's level when they meet.
   The dollar's rise was reinforced by news that Ukraine had
taken control of a communications facility linking the
Kremlin military command to 300,000 ex-Soviet troops in the
republic. Russia and Ukraine are engaged in a tug-of-war over
control of the army and navy.
   The tension led players to sell marks for dollars because
Germany is seen as particularly vulnerable to developments in
the former Soviet Union. Ukraine later backed down by
postponing the transfer of the Black Sea fleet to its
control, the main point of discussion, by six months.
   Further adding to the dollar's strength were a move by
Nederlandsche Bank, the Dutch central bank, to lower its key
money-market intervention rate, and rumors of
lower-than-expected wage settlements in Germany.
   Although the Dutch move was "unimportant on the face of
it," the market later took it as a sign that European
interest rates might move lower, said Bank of New York's Mr.
Hoge. Lower European rates would decrease the interest-rate
differential with the U.S. and benefit the dollar.
   The action by the Nederlandsche Bank to lower its
so-called "special advance" rate to 9.4% from 9.5% was the
first easing since most European central banks tightened
monetary policy following a German rate increase near the end
of last year. Dutch monetary policy usually tracks German
policy.
   Rumors that Western German steelworkers had accepted an
unexpectedly low 5.5% wage agreement spurred more speculation
of a cut in European rates, since such a settlement would set
a precedent for other industries. The rumors were later
denied and talks are still under way.
   Yesterday's move leaves market observers guessing about
the dollar's future. Market attention turns to the U.S.
December employment figures, to be reported today. Extreme
bearishness toward the data, with rumors of a decline of as
much as 250,000 in non-farm payrolls, has shifted to an
almost rosy outlook that includes talk of a rise in payrolls
last month.