Economy:
   Hewlett-Packard Stock Soars on News
   Of 49% Jump in Its 1st-Quarter Net
   ----
   By Jim Carlton
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The Palo Alto, Calif., company reported quarterly earnings
of $306 million, or $1.21 a share, on revenue of $3.86
billion, compared with $205 million, or 83 cents a share, on
revenue of $3.41 billion in the year-earlier period. The mean
earnings estimate by analysts was $215 million, or 85 cents a
share. Analysts said they estimated conservatively because
H-P reported a fairly strong quarter a year ago, making the
earnings comparison difficult.
   "It was a blowout quarter," said Steven Milunovich,
analyst at Morgan Stanley  Co.
   Timothy McCollum, analyst at Dean Witter Reynolds, said:
"In my wildest dreams I didn't think it would be this good.
They pulled everything together and did everything well."
   John A. Young, H-P's president and chief executive
officer, said the results reflected strong acceptance of the
company's newer products and its continuing effort to slow
the growth of expenses. "We're very pleased . . . {but} we
remain cautious in our outlook because of continuing economic
difficulties in the U.S. and slower growth in some key
markets outside the U.S.," Mr. Young said.
   H-P has been trimming expenses for some time, and in the
last fiscal year it cut 3,600 jobs through early retirement
and voluntary severance. In addition, orders for products
such as the H-P LaserJet and H-P DeskJet printers rose
sharply in its first quarter. The company also said computer
systems, including the new H-P 9000 Series 700 workstations,
showed strong order growth.
   H-P's strategy had been to reduce expenses enough that any
boost in revenue would go straight to the bottom line, Mr.
McCollum said. "That's what happened this quarter," he said.
   Earnings also benefited from an increase in sales to end
users such as big corporations, where profit margins are
higher than to dealers, said Barry F. Willman, analyst at
Sanford C. Bernstein  Co. Among the products sold at an
aboveaverage clip to end users was the H-P 3000 multiuser
computer, he said.
   As promising as the overall quarterly numbers were, there
were some negatives. Orders for electronic
test-and-measurement products, used for such purposes as
scientific testing, fell 10% from a year earlier amid a
continued slowdown in corporate and defense spending. Orders
for H-P services, which go to support and supplies for the
company's products, also slowed to "single-digit" growth in
the quarter from a fiscal 1991 level of 15% growth and a
fiscal 1990 growth of 21%, Mr. Willman said. With customers
finding their computers more reliable and paying less for
servicing them, he said, H-P services may remain stuck at
single-digit growth the rest of the year.
   George Newman, H-P's treasurer, acknowledges some
weaknesses, saying "one quarter does not a trend make." The
company, he said, will spend ensuing quarters working to
improve profitability but for now is basking in the glow of
the first quarter, its best in five years. "We've been
working a long, hard road to get to where we are, and we're
plenty happy about it," he said.