Potomac Watch:
   The Voters Flex
   Before Throwing
   The Bums Out
   ----
   Paul A. Gigot
"RIIIICH? Congresswoman Beverly Byron voted herself a fat
$35,000 pay raise. . . . All at a time when people back home
are hurting and jobs are scarce. . . .
   "FAAAMOUS? Beverly Byron has traveled the world. In the
past two years, she's junketed to Egypt, England, Spain,
Portugal, Germany, Italy, Poland, Hungary, South Africa, even
the lush vacation-land -- Barbados.
   "Barbados? And we paid the bill? . . . No more business as
usual . . . Beverly Byron for Barbados. Or Tom Hattery for
Maryland for Congress."
   On Capitol Hill they're now saying, IIIIINCREDIBLE] Mr.
Hattery, a 38-year-old farmer and state legislator, routed
the 14-year incumbent with 56% of the vote in Tuesday's
Democratic primary. Roll Call, a Capitol Hill newspaper that
plays Sisyphus to the rock of Congress's reputation, wrote an
editorial calling the result "horrifying news." (Don't all
shriek at once])
   The members are quivering along with their kited checks
because 1992 is shaping up as the most anti-incumbent year
since 1980, and maybe since the Watergate year of 1974. Glen
Bolger of Public Opinion Strategies now tracks Congress's
disapproval rating at 71%, right up there with lawyers, which
of course most members also are. More threatening (or
refreshing) still, voters now say they're upset with their
own members as well as with the institution.
   Maryland's primary may be only the first crashing wave.
Ms. Byron lost in the west, but GOP incumbent Wayne Gilchrest
won only 47% against two challengers in eastern Maryland.
Another boomer may land later this month in Illinois. Danny
Rostenkowski, bartender in the tax-break saloon that is the
Ways and Means Committee, faces a dangerous primary. So do
Old Bull Republicans Harris Fawell and Phil Crane outside
Chicago. Then there's Chicago Democrat Gus Savage, popularly
known as Savage Gus for his engaging personality.
   The victims will be bipartisan. But Republicans ought to
benefit the most in November, if only because they hold so
many fewer seats (166 to 269 in the House). That at least is
the hope in the National Republican Congressional Committee,
which may, after 38 years of House futility, finally be
positioning itself to take advantage of the surly public
mood.
   In the past, the defeatist Republican strategy was to
channel all money and attention to a mere 20 or so House
races. The problem is that Democrats knew the targets too; so
they used the advantages of incumbency to raise so much money
that few challengers had a chance. Michigan liberal David
Bonior had typically raised some $400,000 for his
re-elections. But after being "targeted" in 1990, he soaked
donors for nearly $1.2 million, outspending his doomed
opponent four-to-one.
   This year Republicans plan to avoid targeting and share
the wealth, hoping to create as many as 125 truly competitive
races. "We're going to give every challenger who comes in
here a shot at services," says Spence Abraham, the NRCC's new
co-chairman. Mr. Abraham doesn't share the incumbent-itis of
House Republicans, perhaps because in 1990 he helped
Republican John Engler pull an upset in the race for Michigan
governor. The 39-year-old Mr. Abraham is from his party's
reform, not its status quo, wing.
   It's possible public anger could fade by autumn, but so
far things are falling into place. The once-a-decade
redistricting has reshuffled formerly safe Democratic seats
in California, Illinois and elsewhere. Challengers are
stepping up: In the first five states with filing deadlines,
the GOP this year had 112 candidates, compared to only 57 in
1988.
   Best of all, Congress is acting like Congress, raising
taxes and stonewalling on the check-kiting scandal. Even many
Democrats privately agree Republicans could pick up at least
20 or 25 seats this fall, returning to their recent
high-water mark of 192 seats in 1980. Imagine what could
happen if Republicans had a president at the top of the
ticket who actually stood for something.
   The Byron bump-off certainly shows the potential.
Congressional Democrats are consoling themselves that Ms.
Byron was "caught napping"; Republicans hope Democrats keep
fooling themselves like this. A poll showed her weakness more
than a week before the primary; she responded with an attack
ad against "Taxin' Tom Hattery." But a member of the
tax-and-spend Congress attacking someone else on taxes lacks
-- how to put it nicely -- credibility.
   Mr. Hattery ran a classic outsider's campaign. His TV spot
stressed his farm and business background and urged: "We've
got to take Congress back, and return it to the people." He
endorsed term limits. He stressed abortion rights against the
anti-abortion Ms. Byron, but his economic proposal was a
mainstream cut in both "middle-class" and capital-gains
taxes.
   As for that Robin Leach "lifestyles" ad, the man who
thought it up is David Heller; he's at 202-863-3883, in case
other challengers want to imitate it.