Law:
   Justices and Two Lower Courts Face
   Confrontation Over Abortion, Taxes
   ----
   By Paul M. Barrett
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Who is responsible for the confusion? To some degree, the
justices themselves, but perhaps Congress, as well.
   Earlier this week, the high court agreed to consider the
constitutionality of Pennsylvania's restrictive abortion law.
With a decision expected by July, the case will ensure that
abortion plays a big role in the 1992 presidential campaign.
The justices may use the occasion to reassess Roe vs. Wade,
the 1973 decision recognizing a constitutional right to
abortion. What makes the case remarkable in legal terms is
that a lower court, in effect, already has declared that Roe
is no longer the law of the land.
   The federal appeals court in Philadelphia last October
upheld most of the Pennsylvania law, striking down only a
requirement that married women inform their husbands of a
planned abortion. To reach that result, the appeals court
rejected the stringent standard Roe established for judges to
use in reviewing the constitutionality of abortion
restrictions. That standard, known as "strict scrutiny,"
applies to only a handful of constitutional rights that the
Supreme Court has labeled "fundamental."
   In constitutional law, choosing the standard of review is
more than legal doubletalk; it frequently determines the
results of cases. Strict scrutiny requires the government to
show that it has a "compelling interest" in a regulation -- a
test that's rarely met.
   Claiming that Roe survives in name only, the Philadelphia
appeals court noted that in a series of fragmented abortion
decisions in the 1980s, the increasingly conservative Supreme
Court itself cast doubt on what standard of review ought to
be used. Looking for a "common denominator," the appeals
court settled on a less-demanding standard urged by Justice
Sandra O'Connor. She would generally allow regulations that
don't place an "undue burden" on women's freedom to choose
abortion.
   Rather than insubordination, the lower court demonstrated
candor: The Supreme Court has chipped away so much of Roe's
core that nominal preservation of the precedent has become
misleading. The Pennsylvania case provides an opportunity for
clarification, but it's far from certain that the justices
are ready to make a definitive pronouncement.
   In the realm of tax law, the high court faces another
challenge, this one issued by the Supreme Court of North
Dakota.
   The state court, in effect, vetoed a 1967 high court
decision limiting states' authority to compel out-of-state
companies to collect from consumers a tax on goods used
in-state. The 1967 case, National Bellas Hess Inc. vs.
Department of Revenue, said that out-of-state businesses such
as mailorder firms, which don't have a "physical" presence
in-state, generally can avoid the use tax.
   The North Dakota court observed that retailing has changed
a lot in 24 years. For one thing, direct marketing sales --
not only by mail, but now also by phone, fax, television and
even personal computer -- have grown to $200 billion from $3
billion annually. New technology makes the physical presence
standard obsolete, the North Dakota court ruled. It endorsed
the state's efforts to tax Quill Corp., a Lincolnshire, Ill.,
office products supplier that solicits catalog business in
North Dakota.
   Prof. Ferdinand Schoettle of the University of Minnesota
Law School says that the North Dakota court's decision is
"highly unusual" but that a re-evaluation of National Bellas
Hess is overdue. The Supreme Court has on a number of
occasions evaded opportunities to revisit the issue, allowing
a rule affecting billions of tax dollars to grow antiquated,
Prof. Schoettle asserts.
   But in the justices' defense, he observes that a court
with a small staff of law clerks isn't well suited to keeping
tax policy current. Instead, the professor says, "such
problems may be better solved" by Congress, which can hold
hearings and gradually amend the law based on changing
conditions. Indeed, if lawmakers can withstand pressure from
the direct-marketing industry, the high court's decision in
the North Dakota case could be eclipsed by legislation now
pending on Capitol Hill.