Underwriting Fees Headed for a Record
   ----
   By Michael Siconolfi and William Power
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
The quarter's underwriting fees already match the $1.6
billion record set in 1991's fourth quarter and are more than
double the $633.8 million that Wall Street snared in the
first quarter of last year.
   On Wall Street, which had record profits last year, the
fee surge is a sign that 1992 could be another barn-burner.
Analysts expect underwritings to remain strong -- though not
necessarily at the current frenzied level -- unless there is
a sudden spike in interest rates or a stock market plunge
that would spoil the party.
   For all of 1991, Wall Street firms took in $4.61 billion
in underwriting fees, the most since 1986. That deluge of
fees -- along with a pickup in small-investor trading -- has
already boosted stock prices of brokerage firms; shares of
Merrill Lynch  Co., the nation's biggest underwriter, nearly
tripled in the past year. And even though securities analysts
expect the gusher of underwriting fees to slow, some of them
say brokerage shares could rise some more.
   "We all know the level of underwriting activity we're
seeing can't continue at this pace; it just can't," said
Lawrence Eckenfelder, brokerage-industry analyst at
Prudential Securities Inc. Yet he holds out hope for another
25% rise in brokerage stocks this year and recommends the
shares of Merrill, A.G. Edwards Inc., Bear Stearns Cos. and
PaineWebber Group Inc.
   The reason: a "reasonable chance" that both trading and
underwriting revenues, even after easing from today's pace,
will continue to be stronger than last year. That would be
enough to further buoy brokerage stocks, which Mr.
Eckenfelder says were "oversold" during Wall Street's slump 1
1/2 years ago.
   Wall Street securities firms earn fees by buying new
stocks and bonds from corporate issuers and reselling them to
the public at a markup. Behind the first quarter's fee party
was record underwriting volume. There was strong activity in
two traditional cash cows: new stock issues -- both initial
public offerings and those by already public companies -- and
new issues of high-yield junk bonds. That's "a very rich
mix," said analyst Guy Moszkowski of Sanford C. Bernstein 
Co.
   "What we saw in the first quarter was a continuance of the
IPO business -- but, more important, an increase in the
equity issuance of seasoned companies," said Michael D.
Madden, co-head of investment banking at the Lehman Brothers
division of Shearson Lehman Brothers Inc.
   Stock-underwriting deals typically are the most lucrative
for Wall Street firms. Stock-underwriting fees averaged 5% of
the deals' proceeds so far this year, IDD said. Underwriting
bond issues typically is less profitable for Wall Street; the
average fee for convertible debt issues is 1.9%; for
junk-bond issues, 1.8%; and for investment-grade bonds, 0.5%.
But fees for some bond underwritings are widening a bit as
securities firms are putting together more complex structured
deals.
   Through yesterday, securities firms raked in $916.3
million in fees from underwriting new-stock offerings, nearly
triple the total for 1991's first quarter, IDD said. Fees
from new junk-bond issues, meanwhile, rose to $112.3 million;
by contrast, there were no new junk issues sold in 1991's
first quarter.
   The pipeline of new junk-bond issues is well-stocked,
promising continued strength. But the IPO market has stumbled
a bit in recent weeks. Large investors are being much more
selective in the types of IPOs they buy, and some corporate
issuers are standing on the sidelines waiting for stock
prices to rise a bit more.
   "It's not the frothy, put-your-money-to-work market" of
earlier in the first quarter, Mr. Madden said of the
stock-underwriting market. "But if you've got a story-stock
or a name stock, like Reader's Digest, everyone's got to have
a piece of it for marquee value."
   Merrill, the nation's biggest securities firm, continues
to lead so far this year in underwriting fees, thanks to its
dominance of many underwriting sectors, particularly bond
offerings. Goldman, Sachs  Co. is ranked No. 2, in part
because of its strength in the lucrative new-stock issue
business. Lehman Brothers jumped to No. 4 from No. 5 last
year. "Lehman has become an important player in the debt
market," IDD said.