Law -- Legal Beat:
   Court Rules Against Cable Firm
   On Private-Property Access Claims
   ----
   By Arthur S. Hayes and Junda Woo
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
"It will take away one of the arrows in the quiver" of
cable operators, said Howard Graff, a partner with the New
York law firm Baer, Marks  Upham, which represented the
loser in the case, Cable Holdings of Georgia Inc. The
decision last week applies only to private property not
dedicated for public use.
   Cable operators have been suing property owners and
municipalities since the late 1980s, asking courts to
interpret the language in the federal cable act to allow
private-property easements.
   Although trial level courts have ruled in favor of cable
operators, two federal appeals courts have ruled for property
owners. Prior to the 11th Circuit Court's decision, a federal
appeals court in Philadelphia issued a similar decision,
ruling that the cable act does not allow operators access to
the interior of multidwellings.
   Cable operators were also given comfort by a decision in
January by an intermediary appeals court in Michigan, which
ruled under state law that municipalities cannot force
private dwellings to allow access to cable operators.
   The ruling by the federal appeals court in Atlanta applies
only to Georgia, Alabama and Florida. But with two federal
appeals courts behind them, owners of multi-unit dwellings
who use satellite dishes to supply television programming to
their residents and tenants have greater leverage to persuade
other courts to rule similarly.
   In the Atlanta case, Robert A. McNeil, the owner of two
apartment complexes in Cobb County, Ga., was sued by Smyrna
Cable TV, which demanded access to his property. Mr. McNeil's
contract with Smyrna, a unit of Cable Holdings of Georgia,
had expired and he struck a deal with an operator that
provided programming by a satellite dish receiver.
   Smyrna Cable argued in federal district court that since
Mr. McNeil had already allowed telephone, electric and video
programming companies easements on his property, he had to
offer the same access to Smyrna. The federal trial court
agreed with Smyrna, but its ruling was overturned by the
federal appeals court.
   Writing for a three-judge panel, Judge Stanley F. Birch
Jr. ruled that providing access to utility lines was not the
same thing as conveying a right-of-way by a recorded deed.
   "In general, an easement is legally `dedicated' only when
the private-property owner entirely relinquishes his rights
of exclusion regarding the statement so that the general
public may use the property," Judge Birch wrote. "The
language and legislative history . . . indicates that the
cable act does not provide a right to access wholly private
easements granted by property owners in favor of particular
utilities."
   Deborah Costlow, a partner with Winston  Strawn in
Washington, which represented Mr. McNeil, said that property
owners will use the winning argument in "every other
circuit." Ms. Costlow said she made the same argument in a
similar case before the Fourth Circuit in Richmond, Va., and
expects a ruling soon.
   Mr. Graff said he will ask the entire 11th Circuit to
rehear the case.
   ---
   QUAYLE'S VIEW ON LIABILITY SUITS is widely held, poll
shows.
   Seven out of 10 people polled by Roper Organization Inc.
agreed with a statement that a major effect of liability
suits is to give lawyers "much more money than they deserve."
Sixty-three percent agreed that "people often start frivolous
lawsuits because awards are so big and they have so little to
lose."
   The recently released poll was conducted last year, before
Vice President Dan Quayle criticized lawyers at the annual
meeting of the American Bar Association. He argued that
liability suits undermine the competitiveness of U.S.
companies.
   Only four in 10 people queried by Roper said a significant
result of liability suits is the fair compensation of
victims. About half of the 1,970 people surveyed agreed that
companies and individuals act more responsibly because of the
potential threat of lawsuits.
   Respondents were divided over whether the number of
malpractice, personal injury and product liability suits is
reasonable; 38% called them "mostly justified," while 35%
found them "mostly unjustified."
   But most people wanted to limit punitive damage awards, a
major thrust of the vice president's comments. Almost seven
out of ten people would limit punitive awards, and a majority
wanted to cap awards for lost wages and pain and suffering.
   Lawyers contend the poll results show a gap between public
perception and reality. Product liability suits are filed in
only a fraction of cases where people are injured, said a
spokesman for the ABA.
   Arthur Bryant, executive director of Trial Lawyers for
Public Justice, said the public notices headlines about large
punitive damage awards but not follow-up stories showing that
the awards were sharply reduced by judges.