LEISURE  ARTS:
   Film: An Old Man's Travels in His Memory
   ----
   By Julie Salamon
Mr. Van Dormael, directing a full-length feature for the
first time here, performed as a clown for Belgium's Big
Flying Circus before he turned to film. That makes perfect
sense. "Toto" has the spirit of a great circus -- exciting
and delightful yet sad and dangerous as well.
   Michel Bouquet is intense and perfectly unsentimental
playing "Toto" as a cranky old man who's been deposited in a
nursing home. His real name is Thomas, but he thinks of
himself, secretly, as Toto, an action hero modeled on a
television hero. He dreams of rebellion. When a nurse dumps
pills in a cup for him he fantasizes about grabbing her and
stuffing a whole bottle of the pills down her throat.
   But mainly he's obsessed with murdering someone named
Alfred. "I'll kill you, I'll kill you Alfred" are the first
words he utters in the film.
   He's convinced that Alfred stole his life, that he and
Alfred were switched at birth in a hospital fire, and that he
should have lived the charmed life he's sure Alfred's been
living. Like everything in Thomas's imagination, that fire is
vividly presented on screen, a nightmarish vision of a
nursery on fire. And even though Thomas believes that fire
was real, he's also convinced his life was a bore. "Nothing
ever happened is this guy's story," he says.
   His life as a child, however, was fantastic, the way Mr.
Van Dormael shows it, as a playful fable told from the point
of view of a little boy with a lively mind. Young Thomas
remembers his parents telling him he fell from the sky and
was found by his parents, a cheery couple who have the bouncy
pep and humor of a '60s sitcom mom and dad.
   Dad, an airplane pilot, does magic tricks for his kids and
sings them funny songs. That memory is staged like an antic
bit from a Vincente Minelli musical. Dad sings "The Singing
Fool" (with the lyric "Boom] The sun goes boom]") while
bright tulips sway to the beat on the front lawn.
   That glorious vision wasn't entirely accurate, even in the
golden period of Thomas's youth. Not everything was perfect.
Thomas's little brother had Down's syndrome, but was
good-natured even when neighborhood kids tormented him.
Thomas had to endure the ridicule of his next-door neighbor
Alfred, the smug rich boy who Thomas believed was living with
the wrong parents. Still, Alice, Thomas's older sister, was
perfection, the exquisite object of a little boy's vaguely
incestuous adoration. When Alice begins to flirt with Alfred,
Thomas finds new, urgent reasons to hate the boy next door.
   The scenes between Thomas Godet, the actor playing little
Thomas, and Sandrine Blancke as Alice are exquisite. He
worships her. You can see it in the way he looks at her, even
before he informs her that the Egyptian queen Nefertiti
married her brother. Skinny little Ms. Blancke has a
remarkable presence. You understand why Thomas gets so
shivery when she climbs into bed with him and casually asks
him if he likes her hands, her feet, her legs.
   Still, things were pretty ideal until they went "boom."
Thomas's father was killed flying goods across the English
Channel for Alfred's father. When the film moves into the
middle years of Thomas's memory, the brightness is gone. He's
become a drab bureaucrat, played with acute misery by Jo De
Backer.
   Thomas has never stopped being obsessed by his sister and
has never been able to replace the warm goofiness of his
childhood home. One day he sees a woman who resembles his
sister and he follows her. For a time he's brought back to
life, only to find that she's married to his old neighbor,
Alfred.
   Mr. Van Dormael, who also wrote the screenplay, skips
around time, as he sifts through Thomas's memory, as Thomas
tries to understand his lifelong feud with Alfred. The scenes
from Thomas's childhood seem to take place in the '60s,
judging by artifacts like cars and television sets. That puts
the "contemporary" scenes of Thomas as an old man somewhere
in the future. The movie feels timeless, the way memory does,
picking an instance from one era to make a connection with
something that may have happened a dozen years later. There's
no fake, insulting uplift in this story of missed
opportunities and lost lives. But when you walk out of the
theater you'll feel just wonderful.
   ---
   VIDEO TIP: John Boorman beautifully mingled nostalgia with
horror in "Hope and Glory," his picture about his boyhood
experiences during the London blitz. Though it's quite
different from "Toto Le Heros" in style and story, its spirit
seems strangely similar to that of the Van Dormael film.