ENVIRONMENT
   ----
   By David Stipp
THE COSTS of clean water are making it a scarcely
affordable luxury for the poor in some U.S. cities.
   Water bills are skyrocketing in New York, Los Angeles and
other cities as the costs of complying with federal
clean-water laws are passed along to customers. The costs hit
low-income people especially hard. Water bills represent a
relatively large portion of their income, and the poor often
live in apartments with leaky plumbing over which they have
no control, notes the National Consumer Law Center, a
nonprofit Boston advocacy group, in a recent report on the
problem.
   Boston water and sewer bills have risen 39% in the past
two years as the costs of cleaning up Boston Harbor have been
phased into rates. During the period, water shutoffs as a
result of nonpayment of water bills have tripled, according
to the Boston Water and Sewer Commission. The 1,200 shutoffs
in 1991 represent "just the tip of the iceberg," compared
with the number of households having trouble paying utility
bills, says Robert Ciolek, executive director of the
commission.
   The law group estimates there are more than 100,000
households having trouble paying utility bills in the Boston
area, forcing them to cut back on food, clothing and medical
care. By 2000, it says, average annual household water and
sewer bills in Boston will rise to about $1,600 from $500
now.
   "People are going to start questioning the value of
environmental projects" related to water if "the poor are
pushed into the abyss" by water bills, says Mr. Ciolek. His
agency is working with a coalition of Boston groups that
advocates more federal money for water projects. The law
group argues that a program of rebates is needed to offset
low-income households' burgeoning water and sewer bills.
                                                                                                       

   Forests of the Northeast
   Get Breathing Space
                                                                                                       

   THE RECESSION and hard times for big timber companies
offer a rare chance to protect the Northeast's forests,
environmentalists say.
   Nine tracts, with a total of 400,000 acres in northern New
England and New York's Adirondacks, either are on the market
or are expected to be available soon, according to the
Wilderness Society. The society has formed a coalition with
14 other organizations, including the Sierra Club, the
National Audubon Society and the National Wildlife
Federation, to urge state and federal governments to snap
them up before land developers can. The coalition estimates
it would cost $50 million to protect the tracts by buying
them outright or arranging for "conservation easements" to
block development.
   The tracts, called "the natural jewels," are pivotal
pieces of the Northern Forests area, 26 million acres
scattered across Maine, New Hampshire, Vermont and New York
that have become a cause celebre among preservationists. Most
of the forests have long been owned and maintained as
wilderness areas by timber and paper companies. But as a
result of pressures on the companies to boost profits and cut
debt after buy-outs, much of the land has come up for sale in
the past few years. The tracts now on the market are being
offered at relatively low prices as a result of the area's
economic and real-estate slump.
   "This is the chance of a lifetime" to save the Northern
Forests, says Mike DiNunzio, a spokesman for the Adirondack
Council, a coalition member.
                                                                                                       

   `Supercritical' Water
   Takes On Toxic Wastes
                                                                                                       

   CAN CHARISMA vanquish toxic wastes?
   Chemical engineers hope soon to answer that question with
new technology based on "supercritical" water. Supercritical
refers to unusual properties water shows when heated above
700 degrees Fahrenheit at a pressure of about 220
atmospheres. One property is the ability to dissolve
chemicals, including common toxic wastes, that are insoluble
in water under normal conditions.
   Once such substances are dissolved, another supercritical
water property, sometimes called "molecular charisma," can
come into play. That's an apparent tendency of water
molecules to cluster near other molecules in a solution like
groupies around a rock star. Scientists believe the fleeting
formation of such clusters promotes chemical reactions that
don't occur in ordinary water, including ones that can
quickly detoxify hazardous chemicals.
   Supercritical water's ability to destroy toxic wastes has
been known since the 1970s, but putting it to practical use
has been difficult. For instance, residues from the reactions
tend to clog up the detoxification systems.
   But in the past year, "we've solved the technical problems
needed to scale up" for commercial use of the technology,
claims Michael Modell, president of Modec, Framingham, Mass.
The solutions are trade secrets. But his company and a
competing concern he formerly controlled, Modar, Natick,
Mass., have separately conducted tests with small
supercritical water systems indicating "some {waste-disposal}
applications are feasible," says an official with the
Department of Energy, which funded the work.
                                                                                                       

   Odds and Ends
                                                                                                       

   GALE RESEARCH, Detroit, has introduced a $75, one volume
guide that briefly describes 8,634 companies, nonprofit
groups, government agencies, academic programs and other
sources of information about the environment. . . . A new
state law in Maine, partly inspired by an amateur astronomer,
is aimed at preventing "light pollution." It requires new
outdoor lighting on state property to be designed to minimize
lighting up the sky at night.