Retailer SK
   To Post 60% Rise
   In 4th-Period Net
   ----
   By Suein L. Hwang
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
"Total market growth is what we're concentrating on. It's
important to saturate a market, even at the expense of comp
{comparable-store} sales," he says.
   Mr. Siegel says he "agrees with the interpretation" of
analysts who predict fourth-quarter earnings in the range of
$1.28 million to $1.32 million, or 54 cents to 56 cents a
share. That would be at least a 60% jump from last year's
anemic fourth-quarter results, but a 10% to 13% drop from
SK's quarterly earnings two years ago. Sales are expected to
total more than $24 million, up 5% from a year ago.
   As for fiscal 1993, Mr. Siegel says things are going
"basically the way we planned it" and notes that analysts'
estimates of year-end earnings in the $1.30 to $1.40 range
"definitely seem on track."
   Much of the fourth quarter-earnings improvement is due to
increased operating efficiencies and technological
innovations that allow SK to cut costs -- a theme Mr. Siegel
frequently expounds on. By planning inventories with greater
precision and installing a point-of-sale ordering system, the
company reduced overall inventory by 16%. SK also paid off
all of its debt and is running "essentially debt free."
   The loss in comparable store sales, Mr. Siegel explains,
resulted from the company's strategy of opening other stores
in existing markets. The tactic is intended boost overall
market share, although he admits some "cannibalizing" occurs.
Instead of expanding to large, competitive urban markets, SK
follows a "big fish in a small pond" strategy, focusing
instead on saturating smaller to midsized markets around the
country. Of the 20 stores opened last year, Mr. Siegel said
15 to 18 of them opened late in the third quarter or the
fourth quarter.
   Despite some problems with cannibalization among its
stores, Mr. Siegel says the tactic improves profitability by
saving the company on the 6% of revenue it usually spends
advertising in a local area and incurring only slightly
higher overall distribution costs. He adds that the company
can open a store very inexpensively -- for as little as
$75,000.
   But the market saturation strategy isn't likely to be as
noticeable this fiscal year, as the company focuses more on
its successful outlet stores, which usually open on the
outskirts of major markets. SK plans to open 25 stores this
year, 15 to 18 of which will be outlets.
   For the full year, the company predicts earnings in the
range of $2.74 million to $2.79 million, or $1.16 to $1.18 a
share. Sales are expected to be more than $74 million. A year
earlier, SK reported earnings of $1.8 million, or 75 cents a
share, on sales of $66.9 million.