Law -- Legal Beat:
   Law Firms Use Various Tactics
   To Prevent Exodus by Partners
   ----
   By Arthur S. Hayes
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Rainmakers -- partners who bring in hefty clients -- used
to stay put for life. But the prosperity of the 1980s
triggered an unprecedented free-agent market for
heavy-hitters.
   "The rainmaker became venerated and was carried around on
a sedan chair," says Don Reuben, a well-known Chicago
rainmaker.
   The recent economic plunge has resulted in another wave of
partner defections, in which partners of foundering firms
jump ship for healthier operations.
   "Now partners are coming to us and saying `I'm concerned
about the future,'" says legal recruiter Bobbie McMorrow of
McMorrow Associates Inc. in Los Angeles. And profitable firms
are trying to fill specific needs by recruiting from troubled
firms, she says.
   Lawyers and recruiters familiar with the volatile market
for rainmakers say, like a 500-pound gorilla, it is almost
impossible to placate or restrain them. But law firm managers
are experimenting with ways to make itchy rainmakers think
twice before they bolt.
   Haight, Brown  Bonesteel, a Santa Monica, Calif., law
firm, had mixed results when it tried to enforce the
non-compete clause in its partnership agreement after a
partner quit and took two key clients.
   Robert L. Dickson, a lawyer at the firm for more than 20
years, in 1988 opened a competing firm across the street. He
took with him 21 lawyers and accounts valued at about 22% of
his old firm's $6 million in billings, says Haight, Brown
partner Roy Weatherup.
   Haight Brown sued Mr. Dickson for breaching its
partnership agreement, which denied him his share of profits
and made him liable for partnership debts if he left and
competed with the firm. Mr. Dickson countered that the
agreement was an illegal restraint of competition and
violated the lawyers' rules of ethics.
   Last month, the California Supreme Court ruled that the
contract wasn't invalid because it didn't keep attorneys from
practicing altogether. The case will go to trial on the
agreement's specific provisions. If he loses, Mr. Dickson and
six partners who left with him may have to pay their old firm
as much as $1.2 million.
   The decision was a victory for law firm management. But it
sharply contrasts with a ruling by New York's highest court,
which three years ago voided a similar partnership agreement
of Lord, Day  Lord. Courts in Oregon, Tennessee and Iowa
have since agreed with the New York decision. Mr. Weatherup
points out, however, that about 20 states have laws similar
to California's, which allows professionals and businesses to
enforce non-compete contracts.
   Leslie David Corwin, of the New York law firm Morrison
Cohen Singer  Weinstein, who specializes in partnership law,
says that several New York law firms have tried to get around
the Lord, Day decision by redrafting provisions so that they
don't look like non-compete clauses. Some, Mr. Corwin says,
link retirement benefits and returns on a partner's
investment in the firm to a long tenure.
   Some firms also have adopted agreements enabling a
partnership to dissolve and force the defecting partner to
share responsibility for all of the firm's debts, Mr. Corwin
says. The most effective provision, he says, subtracts a
departing partner's share of the firm's debt for its lease
from any money he is owed.
   Stephen Harmelin, managing partner of Dilworth, Paxson,
Kalish  Kauffman in Philadelphia, predicts that, "As the
economy gets worse, I suspect the courts will be more
sympathetic to the enforcement of these kinds of provisions."
His firm almost lost its key rainmaker, Bruce W. Kauffman, to
another firm last year.
   Mr. Dickson, formerly of Haight, Brown, scoffs at the
notion that a restrictive partnership agreement will act as a
deterrent to defections. "If a partner wants to leave, he'll
leave," he says.
   Ultimately, a client decides whether to switch law firms,
and so some firms, such as Winston  Strawn in Chicago, are
trying to wed clients to more than one partner by
cross-pollinating relationships. A client who is happy with
work performed by several partners, isn't likely to change
firms and at worst will split its work.
   The strategy, says Winston  Strawn managing partner Gary
Fairchild, is "to expose clients to an array of additional
parties" and services through training programs and
newsletters. Some firms, says Larry Cesare, a legal recruiter
in Philadelphia, send flowers and birthday cards to
executives' wives as a way to nurture friendly relationships.
   But Jim Agger, general counsel at Air Products  Chemicals
in Allentown, Pa., says those kinds of marketing programs
work well only if the partner who brought in the client
cooperates.
   Morgan, Lewis  Bockius tries to dodge that problem by
carefully screening partners it brings in from other firms.
"We have turned down a lawyer with $5 million in business
because he was not interested in working with a group," says
Samuel B. Fortenbaugh III, chairman of the Philadelphia firm.
   Ward Bower, a law firm consultant, says some market forces
are working in management's favor. In the 1980s, he says,
some defectors exaggerated their clients' billings. To avoid
being burned, firms now scrutinize records and seek
assurances from clients that they will change firms.
   Last year Mr. Kauffman, Dilworth, Paxson's chairman,
decided not to jump ship after negotiating with another firm.
Mr. Kauffman says he responded to a management technique not
typically found in partnership agreements -- guilt and a
sense of obligation. His partners, Mr. Kauffman says,
convinced him that if he stayed, they would make the firm
more profitable by cutting costs.
   "I felt an obligation to stay with the firm, unlike a lot
of lawyers in this world today," Mr. Kauffman says. "I didn't
want to take the chance that the firm would fail."
   ---
   AIDS IS THE MOST LITIGATED disease ever, according to
Harvard study.
   In a report for the AIDS Litigation Project, the Harvard
School of Public Health said that nearly 1,000 cases related
to acquired immune-deficiency syndrome are either pending or
have been decided nationwide. The AIDS Litigation Project is
part of the U.S. Public Health Service.
   The study found that since 1989 the largest number of
cases, which also include complaints filed with state and
local human-rights commissions, involved discrimination
against people with AIDS. Two other major areas of litigation
involved blood transfusions and criminal prosecutions of
people accused of threatening to transmit the disease to
others.
   Because courts have generally found that people with AIDS
are protected from job and housing discrimination, Larry
Gostin, professor of health law and author of the report,
said he expects future suits to deal more with access to
health care and insurance coverage. "I think insurance will
be very heavily litigated," he said in an interview,
particularly as companies try to cut benefits for workers
infected with HIV, the virus that causes AIDS.
   Prof. Gostin said another increasing area of litigation
involves civil suits brought by people claiming they were
exposed to the virus during sex. "Tort litigation among
sexual partners is also expanding with the HIV epidemic," the
report said. "Courts have continued to allow private tort
actions based on the premise that a partner negligently or
intentionally transmitted a venereal disease."
   Similar suits, arguing that people infected with HIV have
a "duty to warn," also are being brought by police and
emergency-care workers against prisoners and patients, Prof.
Gostin said.
   He also said the study found that court decisions often
appear to be based more on fears and stereotypes about AIDS
than on medical facts. For instance, he said that in many
cases where a person with AIDS allegedly exposed another
person to the disease, harsh criminal sentences have been
handed down even though there was no real risk of
transmission.
   ---
   SCHOOL ASBESTOS TRIAL is put on hold.
   The case will be postponed pending a review by a federal
appeals court panel of allegations made by defense lawyers
that the trial judge's actions have led to an appearance of
bias. The appeals court could appoint another judge to hear
the case.
   A jury trial in the eight-year-old class action by 35,000
public and private schools against nearly 30 manufacturers of
asbestos products had been scheduled for Feb. 3. In one of
the most complex product-liability cases pending in the
country, the schools are seeking reimbursement for the costs
of testing and removing asbestos, as well as punitive
damages.
   U.S. District Judge James M. Kelly of Philadelphia decided
to stay the trial after the Third Circuit Court of Appeals
ordered a review of his decision to attend a June 1990
conference on asbestos disease sponsored by the New York
Academy of Science and the Collegium Ramazzini, a scientific
association. Thirteen experts who were working with the
plaintiffs spoke at the conference. Judge Kelly later said
they wouldn't be allowed to testify at the trial in order to
avoid any perception of bias.
   Charles Bruton, an attorney at Schnader, Harrison, Segal 
Lewis which represents defendant Pfizer Inc., said he asked
the Third Circuit to review Judge Kelly's actions because
"there is an appearance of impropriety and my client has a
right to a new referee." Mr. Bruton said he didn't expect the
appeals court's review to be completed until the spring.
   David Berger, co-lead counsel for the schools, said that
he didn't believe Judge Kelly was biased. "It's a smoke
screen of the obvious kind," Mr. Berger said, adding that the
defendants are trying to delay the trial for as long as
possible. (Pfizer Inc. vs. The Honorable James McGirr Kelly
and Barnwell School District No. 45 et al. Third Circuit
Court of Appeals, 91-1887.)
   ---
   Corrections  Amplifications
                                                                                                       

   THE CALIFORNIA SUPREME COURT has not rendered any decision
on the subject of restrictive covenants in law-firm
partnership agreements. A Legal Beat column on Jan. 20
incorrectly stated that it had. The decision referred to in
the column was a September opinion from a California
intermediate appellate court, which the state's Supreme Court
in December declined to review. The column also misstated the
maximum amount Robert L. Dickson and his six partners could
end up having to pay their former partners at Haight, Brown 
Bonesteel. The correct amount is about $250,000.
   (WSJ Jan. 31, 1992)
   920120-0127