Now All the Imitators of the King
   Will Start to Croon `O Sole Mio'
   ----
   By Judith Valente
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The course will be titled Elvis as Anthology. Prof.
Nazareth, a 51-year-old Ugandan native of East Indian
descent, has spent the past 35 years collecting Elvis records
and matching them with the works of other artists he believes
that Elvis both copied and expanded upon.
   "Elvis created a composite self using several contemporary
models," contends the African-studies professor. "In that
sense, he was classically American." Musicologists have long
recognized Elvis's debt to black rhythm and blues artists and
to country singers. But Mario Lanza?
   "If you listen to Lanza's `O Sole Mio' and then play
Elvis's `It's Now or Never,' the influence is clear," asserts
Mr. Nazareth, who began collecting Elvis records and
renditions of his songs by other artists in 1957. He adds
that Elvis's "Blue Hawaii" borrows heavily from the crooning
styles of Bing Crosby and Dean Martin.
   Elvis's movies will make up about half the course. The
professor believes the films are just as misunderstood as the
man. While Time magazine called Elvis's 1968 film, "Stay
Away, Joe," one of the worst portrayals of Native Americans
ever made, Prof. Nazareth sees it as "a classic comic
approach to Third World problems." (Bad or not, he adds, the
movies provided a means for people from other countries to
see Elvis perform.)
   A university spokesman says "educational alarmists" may
view the Elvis course as further evidence of U.S. higher
education's decline. But, notes the spokesman, popular music
is an important part of U.S. culture. "Why should rock 'n'
roll be any different?" he asks.
   Todd Morgan, communications director at Graceland, Elvis's
home, agrees that Elvis borrowed from many performers.
"That's not to say he ripped anybody off," Mr. Morgan quickly
says of the singer, who would have turned 57 today.
   But even Mr. Morgan thinks Prof. Nazareth is too generous
about Elvis's movie career. Elvis's "potential as a
first-rate actor was never fully realized," Mr. Morgan
laments.