Media:
   Whittle Talks
   About Selling
   Stake to Philips
   ----
   By Patrick M. Reilly
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Whittle was close to an agreement last September with
investment concern Forstmann Little  Co. to invest $350
million to acquire a 33% stake in Whittle. The Forstmann
funds were earmarked to reduce the 50% stake in Whittle held
by Time Warner Inc. and to expand Whittle's business.
However, the deal fell apart a month later because of
disagreements between the two sides on estimates of Whittle's
growth for the next five years and the potential success of
several Whittle projects under development.
   Under the new proposed plan, Philips would become a new
general partner in Whittle, reducing Time Warner's 50% stake.
People close to the talks said Time Warner's stake is
expected to fall to around 35%, but it isn't clear how that
will affect other stockholders' stakes. Britain's Associated
Newspapers Holdings PLC holds 33% of Whittle, Mr. Whittle
owns 11%, and other Whittle executives own 6%. Mr. Whittle
would remain in control of the company's operations.
   Philips, Whittle and Time Warner executives declined to
comment on the talks.
   The pact with Philips, if completed, is expected to be
announced next week after more than nine months of
negotiations. The people familiar with the talks said Philips
must get certain federal approvals for its investment in a
U.S. company.
   Executives at both companies, who asked not to be
identified, said the agreement is loaded with "synergistic"
implications. Whittle has a number of innovative and
controversial media properties, such as an
advertiser-supported news show for schools, targeted
magazines and video for doctors' waiting rooms, and
special-topic book series. Whittle's touch for creating
untraditional media is expected to be an important ingredient
as Philips introduces a new generation of multimedia consumer
electronics products, which require a command of video images
and print media. One of Philips's most recent introductions
is the Compact Disc-Interactive, or CD-I, which uses computer
memory, stereo sound and full motion video on compact disks
for use in the home and schools.
   Philips is said to have initially discussed the investment
before the Forstmann Little agreement was announced with
Whittle, which is based in Knoxville, Tenn. Philips and
Whittle are already familiar with each other. The North
American headquarters for Philips also is in Knoxville, where
it has major production facilities. Whittle also is a major
customer of Philips's Magnavox brand. Whittle's Channel One
project required the purchase of about 50,000 Magnavox TV
monitors for installation in classrooms. Whittle is also
expected to continue to be a big customer as it rolls out new
media properties for use in restaurants, malls, airports and
other public locations.
   "Philips just never really went away," said one person
close to Whittle. Philips has been eager to establish ties
with U.S. software companies, much the way that Japanese
companies have been eager to link up with American movie
studios and record companies.
   "Software is getting so important to the hardware
companies," said Dave Lachenbruch, editorial director of
Television Digest, a consumer-electronics industry
newsletter. "Philips has some major multimedia projects on
the way, and it needs software that will appeal to a wide
audience," he said.
   Philips has been looking for synergies in other ways. Last
year, Philips agreed to acquire from Blockbuster
Entertainment Corp. a half interest in Cityvision, the
British video rental chain, and the option to acquire a small
stake in the U.S. stores. Philips executives have said they
were interested in introducing some of the new technologies
in Blockbuster stores, such as CDI machines in demonstration
kiosks.
   Executives familiar with the Whittle talks say Philips's
interest will initially be for investment only, but that
later Whittle and Philips would work together to create new
products.
   ---
   Whittle Communications
                                                                                                       

   -- Based in Knoxville, Tenn.
   -- Revenue for fiscal year ended June 30; $207 million, up
%30 from a year ealier.
                                                                                                       

   Major Properities:
                                                                                                       

   -- Channel One: a 12-minute daily news program with
commercials for students in about 9,000 schools.
   -- Special Reports TV: A magazine and video program on
health issues that appear in more than 19,000 doctors'
waiting rooms.
   -- Larger Agenda: An ad-supported non-fiction book series
on a wide range of topics.
                                                                                                       

   Future Project:
                                                                                                       

   -- Privately supported Whittle Schools
                                                                                                       

   Source: Company reports