Cascade International Pursues Claims
   Against Former Chairman's Ex-Wife
   ----
   By Daniel Pearl
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Ms. Van Zanten and Mr. Incendy had "sole possession and
control" over Cascade's books, according to a complaint
Cascade filed recently against Ms. Van Zanten in U.S.
Bankruptcy Court in Miami. The complaint says she received
checks on company accounts without board approval and without
fair consideration, and seeks to recover the funds.
   Robert Furr, bankruptcy attorney for Cascade, said
yesterday the company hasn't had contact with Mr. Incendy or
his ex-wife, though he added that Ms. Van Zanten was seen
recently in Boca Raton, Fla., where Cascade is based.
   Ms. Van Zanten, who was divorced from Mr. Incendy last
August, has no listed telephone number in Boca Raton and
couldn't be reached. Her daughter, Simone Incendy-Hughes, who
was a buyer for Cascade's stores, said yesterday the
accusations are "not true," but declined to comment further.
   In a statement of financial affairs, filed Friday in U.S.
Bankruptcy Court in Miami, Cascade also listed a claim of
unknown amount against Deltec Securities Corp., a New
York-based fund manager that invested in Cascade and
participated in a complicated private placement of Cascade
stock last fall. Under the placement, Cascade was to redeem
shares it had pledged to investors, and replace them with
shares of Philadelphia-based Conston Corp., which is
majority-owned by Cascade.
   Aaron Karp, Cascade's current chairman, declined to
comment on the dispute with Deltec and said he expects it to
be settled soon. John Gordon, Deltec's president, also
declined to discuss the dispute.
   Cascade lists additional claims against Lawrence Moses, a
former director, and David Green, a former Cascade employee.
   Mr. Moses, a Philadelphia dentist, resigned in December
after disclosing that he had made previously unreported
insider trades in Cascade stock, Mr. Furr said. Filings with
the Securities and Exchange Commission indicate he bought
1.25 million shares and sold 1.31 million from January
through September of last year, in open market transactions.
Mr. Moses hasn't returned phone calls seeking comment.
   Cascade officials wouldn't comment on Mr. Green, who
handled Cascade's store leases. He couldn't be reached this
weekend.
   Cascade listed assets of $7.9 million and liabilities of
$14.5 million, but that picture could change when the company
files a Chapter 11 petition for its major subsidiary, Fran's
Fashions. The major secured creditor is Bank of Scotland,
with a $10 million claim. Unsecured creditors include Barnett
Banks Inc. ($2 million), First Union Corp. ($1.5 million) and
Oleg Cassini Inc. ($229,042). Cascade had announced an
agreement with Oleg Cassini last June to open a chain of
"high-end specialty boutiques" under the Cassini name. No
boutiques were opened.
   Cascade, which at one time claimed 126 stores, is
operating 36 stores now, said Mr. Karp. The Cascade chairman,
who previously was the company's securities lawyer, said
Cascade is cooperating with the Federal Bureau of
Investigation and two district attorneys who are
investigating Cascade's affairs. Mr. Karp said he doesn't
know if the FBI and the attorneys are seeking to question Mr.
Incendy or his ex-wife.
   "There are so many things on my plate; I don't think about
where Victor Incendy is or where J.B. Van Zanten is," Mr.
Karp said.