Who's News:
   CS First Boston Inc.
   Hires Cook to Head
   Asset Management
   ----
   By James A. White
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
"He's a terrific guy, and they couldn't have made a better
choice," said Michael Holland, chairman of Salomon Brothers
Asset Management Inc. Mr. Holland headed First Boston Asset
Management until 1989, when he joined Salomon Brothers. He
also had worked with Mr. Cook at J.P. Morgan Investment
Management Co.
   Numerous Wall Street firms have bolstered their
money-management operations in recent years, and the
selection of Mr. Cook, who oversaw $80 billion in assets at
Fidelity, indicates that CS First Boston is eager to do the
same. Despite handling institutional assets of $12 billion,
First Boston Asset Management hasn't been considered in the
first ranks of investment managers by industry professionals
in the U.S. The firm's London-based unit is smaller than the
U.S. operation, overseeing about $7 billion in assets.
   "Attracting a world-class asset-management leader has been
one of our top priorities," Archibald Cox Jr., chief
executive officer of the company's First Boston Corp. unit,
said of Mr. Cook in a statement. Mr. Cook also was named a
managing director of First Boston and a member of its
seven-man operating committee.
   Edward N. McMillan, president of First Boston Asset
Management, and Manford Adami, managing director of Credit
Suisse First Boston Investment Management, will remain in
those positions and report to Mr. Cook in his new position, a
CS First Boston spokeswoman said.
   In Boston, Fidelity said Mr. Cook's deputies will report
to other Fidelity executives until a successor is named. A
spokeswoman said Fidelity was sorry to lose Mr. Cook, who
joined the Boston firm in 1986. "He's done a fantastic job,
and this is a chance for him to build his own business there"
with CS First Boston, she said.
   John M. Hennessy, president of CS First Boston, cited Mr.
Cook as the latest trophy-name professional picked up by CS
First Boston. In the last two weeks, the investment banking
firm has hired away Salomon bank analyst Thomas Hanley and
Morgan Stanley Group Inc. trading executive Robert E. Diamond
Jr., who was named head of CS First Boston Pacific.
   `The hiring of John Cook completes an important phase in
our senior management plan, and shows the kind of talent that
is being added to this firm," Mr. Hennessy said in a
statement.