Bush to Aid Export
   To Asia of Services
   For Environment
   ----
   By Eduardo Lachica
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The U.S. believes the market is potentially huge. South
Korea alone intends to spend $12 billion over five years for
industrial cleanup, waste disposal and water quality. And
Taiwan is earmarking some $10 billion over 10 years for
similar purposes.
   "Asia's phenomenal growth and Asian people's migration to
urban centers have created cities where the air and water are
choked with pollution," said Henrietta Holsman Fore, the Asia
director for the Agency for International Development.
   She said that 25 Asian countries will be eligible to
participate in an "environmental partnership" with U.S.
government agencies and environmental companies. The program
is intended to provide U.S. technology and financing in such
fields as water purification, effluent treatment, forest and
coastal-area management, lead-free fuel production, energy
efficiency and the protection of endangered species.
   The Bush initiative calls for the Export-Import Bank to
provide an unlimited amount of credits to U.S. environmental
vendors and for the Overseas Private Investment Corp.'s $75
million Asia Pacific Growth Fund and its $100 million
Environmental Investment Fund to invest in Asian
environmental projects that employ American firms. Both of
these OPIC funds are seeking private investors. They are
managed by Hambrecht  Quist Inc. and Kidder, Peabody  Co.,
respectively.
   The Commerce Department, which is coordinating this
multiagency effort along with the AID, said it will establish
an environmental business center in Asia to provide more
direct help to U.S. vendors. At the same time, the
Environmental Protection Agency announced the creation of an
environmental training institute in which public officials
and corporate executives from Asia and other developing
regions can study the latest U.S. technology.
   Rather than constructing a costly training facility, the
institute will run its courses in existing U.S. laboratories
and plants. Potential U.S. vendors thus will have an
opportunity to "showcase" their expertise, said Alan Hecht,
the EPA's deputy assistant administrator for international
activities.