Winter Olympics 1992:
   In the Realm of `Pinheads,' Mr. Bigsby Is Kingpin
   ----
   By Roger Thurow and Craig Forman
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
With a wary smile, Mr. Bigsby nodded twice and then shook
the hand of a man who had been writing him letters for the
past eight years. The man had driven across Europe and was
sleeping in his car in Albertville, hoping to meet Mr.
Bigsby, one of the stars of these Olympics.
   Mr. Bigsby isn't a skier, a skater or a luger. He is an
Olympic pin collector and trader. In Czechoslovakia and most
other places, they call him Mr. Pins.
   With a collection of some 8,000 pins issued by countries,
teams, corporate sponsors and media chroniclers of the
Olympics down through the years, Mr. Bigsby, a 50-year-old
engineer from Albany, N.Y., is the undisputed king of the
pin-collecting mania that is captivating those gathered here
in the French Alps. Wherever he goes, be it to the slalom
summit, the bobsled chute or the forests of the biathlon, Mr.
Bigsby draws a crowd and shouts of "Pins? Pins?" His
distinctive markings -- a blue jacket covered with Olympic
badges and a red cap smothered in pins -- make him one of the
best recognized participants.
   And participate he does, reigning over the bustle inside
the Coca-Cola-sponsored Pin Trading Center, tucked between
the speed-skating oval and the ice-skating hall.
   "When I leave here, I'd like to have the pins of all 64
countries at the Olympics," he says while relaxing, just for
a moment. He reaches into a pocket and pulls out a pin issued
only to members of the U.S. Olympic team. "I got it trading
with one of the athletes," he confides. By the time the Games
finish this week, he reckons, it will be worth $100.
   "The Hungarians have a beautiful pin," he adds covetously.
"On the streets, it's trading at a value of $50."
   Those streets are filled with thousands of pin traders,
commonly known as "pinheads."
   At the entrance to the Olympic hockey rink, security guard
Yvette Coutaz has only one question. "You have pins?" she
asks hopefully, offering passage if a deal is struck. Pins
will open many doors.
   Norwegian team translator Janneke Tranas doesn't have a
ski-lift ticket -- but she has something more valuable -- a
collection of Norway team pins. A quick trade, and up she
speeds to the summit of the women's downhill course. "People,
they are crazy about pins," she says. "They will do anything
for one."
   Enthusiasts ask for pins wherever you go, particularly
besieging people from the media, whose pins are usually among
the most valuable. People can spot them at 20 paces -- like
Jean-Marc Dauzac, who wears a silly baseball hat from which
grow plastic Christmas trees. Having spied a pin from the
Monaco bobsled team, he makes a beeline for the owner and
promptly offers to swap his hat for it. For the more
conventional traders, prices are quoted on the radio, just
after the stock market report.
   But there is also a darker side to pin mania. French
newspapers recently reported the first pin-related murder
(gunshot, Versailles).
   People have been swapping pins since the beginning of the
modern Olympics at Athens in 1896, when officials issued them
as tokens of friendship and good will. But pin trading really
hit the big time at the 1988 Winter Olympics in Calgary, when
Coca-Cola gave the passion a home, setting up the pin-trading
center, which hosted an average of 17,000 people a day.
   During the Albertville Olympics, more than one million
pins are expected to change lapels. Mr. Bigsby figures that
about 2,000 new pins will make an appearance during the
Olympics.
   "We've come a long way," he says, remembering the 1980
Winter Games in Lake Placid, N.Y., when he traded on the
streets and his hands got so cold he could barely unfasten
his pins from his collar. He returned home with 39 pins and a
passion that now consumes six hours of every day as he
presides over the Olympin Collector's Club and corresponds
with traders around the world, from Minnesota to Mongolia.
   His rarest pin is one issued to International Olympic
Committee members during the 1932 Lake Placid Olympics. Only
20 were made, and the value today exceeds $1,000. Overall, he
estimates his collection is valued at about $100,000.
   It's difficult, though, to pin down values. For one thing,
many pins have been produced without anyone paying attention
to precisely how many were distributed. For another, most
conventional pins are susceptible to counterfeiting.
   Thus, pin traders have to rely on the laws of the market.
"You've really got to know your pins," says Alan Falcao, who
has come from Ontario, Canada, with his barbecue apron
studded with pins. Later this year, he will be heading to
Barcelona for the Summer Olympics, again without wife or
family. "My wife asks how can a grown man spend so much time
with little pieces of metal," he says. "But this is my
hobby."
   And a noble one, at that, says Mr. Bigsby.