EC Rules Create
   Both Tax Havoc
   And Tax Haven
   ----
   By Bob Hagerty
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Even so, tax advisers say that multinational companies
should examine their options and that some could start
reorganizing to benefit immediately.
   Here's a snapshot of the two July 1990 directives:
   The first, generally called the parent-subsidiary
directive, is aimed at eliminating double taxation of
dividends when they flow from one EC company to an affiliated
company in another EC state. The directive requires an EC
member country to exempt from withholding tax dividends paid
to a company elsewhere in the EC holding 25% or more of the
unit making the payout.
   The second, known as the mergers directive, makes it
possible, under certain conditions, for companies to avoid
crippling taxes in carrying out cross-border mergers,
split-ups, spinoffs and some stock swaps. (Alas, cross-border
mergers and split-ups, in the legal form defined by the
directive, remain difficult or impossible in many cases
because of other company-law obstacles.)
   For multinationals based in the EC, the directives will
reduce some tax costs and make certain cross-border deals
more appealing. For multinationals based outside the EC, the
new rules mean it may be less expensive to group European
units under a European holding company.
   So should U.S. and Japanese multinationals rush out and
create European holding companies? Maybe not, says Jan
Meyers, a partner at the U.S. law firm Cleary, Gottlieb,
Steen  Hamilton who is based in Brussels. "The fact that
it's becoming less expensive tax-wise to have a European
holding company doesn't necessarily mean it's becoming the
smart thing to do," he says. "The common thought that you
need one is just false."
   But Mr. Meyers says such a holding company might make
sense in some cases. For instance, he says, a U.S. company
might want to offer a stake in its European operations to a
partner or investors. In that case, it might make sense to
corral all those European operations into a holding company.
(In some cases, however, it would be more tax-efficient to
register that "European" holding company in the U.S., rather
than Europe.)
   Pierre Ullmann, a tax expert at the Paris office of Jones,
Day, Reavis  Pogue, offers two examples of how companies
might react to the new rules. Say that a U.S. company has
subsidiaries in France and Spain, both are subject to
withholding tax when they pay dividends to the parent. If the
U.S. group wants to use profit earned in Spain to finance
expansion in France, it might save money by turning the
Spanish company into subsidiary of the French one. That way
the Spanish dividends could flow directly to France rather
than meandering through the U.S. parent.
   But a U.S. parent with subsidiaries in France and Britain
would lose out if it channeled its British dividends through
France. That's because British-U.S. tax treaties make it more
attractive for the U.S. company to receive its British
dividends directly.
   If a multinational opts for a European holding company,
the next question is where to put it. Fortunately for tax
advisers, that depends on a blizzard of considerations. The
Netherlands used to be the top choice, but now other
countries -- notably Belgium, Luxembourg and France -- have
rules that can be even more appealing.
   Both French and Belgian holding companies can deduct the
cost of interest on borrowings incurred to buy shares in
another company. (Of course, the holding company would need
to have taxable income in France or Belgium against which to
deduct that interest cost.) But France puts some serious
restrictions on international holding companies. And Belgium,
unlike France, also exempts capital gains on sales of shares.
So the Belgian formula "may be a nice opportunity," Mr.
Meyers says. Get it while you can, he advises, because
Belgium eventually may tighten up.
   Another option being studied by some companies is the
streamlining of corporate structures that branched out
higgledy-piggledy through acquisitions and diversifications.
For example, Cleary's Mr. Meyers says some U.S. companies
have so many layers of subsidiaries that the outer ones don't
qualify for certain U.S. tax credits. Some of those layers
might be eliminated, producing a more tax-efficient
structure.
   The downside for business is that the directives leave
lots of room for member states to restrict the benefits in
the interest of fighting tax abuses. Lawmakers are nervous
about any loss of tax revenue, notes Mr. Meyers, so "one may
expect to see some creativity here."