LEISURE  ARTS -- Bookshelf:
   A Portrait of Black and White
   ----
   By Tamar Jacoby
The numbers are stark and irrefutable. For all the
progress of recent decades, blacks still live on the margins
of the economy (they are twice as likely to be unemployed and
several times more likely to have stopped looking for work).
Those who do work earn less (between $580 and $907, depending
on age and sex, for every $1,000 whites earn). Most (63%)
still attend segregated schools. Average black SAT scores
fall 200 points below those of whites. Black women are three
times more likely to bear children outside marriage, and
black men make up a hugely disproportionate 45% of all
prisoners. The black middle class has tripled, but, says Mr.
Hacker, even that is misleading. According to "Two Nations,"
it is not unusual for a middle-class white to bring $75,000 a
year home to a nonworking wife, while the typical black
middle-class couple, say a nurse and a bus driver, scrambles
to make do on two salaries of $30,000 each.
   The more difficult question is why this divide persists.
In Mr. Hacker's view, the answer is as clear-cut as the
numbers: "America is inherently a `white country,'" where
blacks live against their will and ever ill at ease.
Professional norms are biased, curriculums discouraging,
"white institutions," by nature, unwelcoming and unfair to
blacks. This is a result of clashing cultures, but also,
still, deliberate: Whites are still "keeping {blacks} . . .
behind the starting line." Blacks, accordingly, exist only as
passive victims. The dissolution of black families follows
naturally from "the strains that come with being black." Even
the anger of black criminals, says Mr. Hacker, is
understandable: Rebellious teens turn to violent crime
because they lack other options, whether legal work or
cushier white-collar crime.
   The long roster of accusations in "Two Nations" is not
entirely unfounded. Racism is hardly dead, in either the
black or the white world, and white readers in particular may
need to be reminded just how different things can look from a
black vantage point. But it serves neither blacks nor whites
to see deliberate racism where other complex forces are in
fact at work. If many blacks are still indeed "behind the
starting line," surely this has as much to do with centuries
of disadvantage as with lingering white bias or contemporary
obstacles. True enough, in the broadest sense, "white
America" is responsible for this historical handicap, but it
does not follow that most whites alive today are still
actively conspiring to keep blacks back. The two explanations
may sound similar, but the difference between them is
critical -- largely because they suggest such different
remedies.
   Again and again, in a dozen different ways, Mr. Hacker
undermines himself by overstating his case. Perceiving that
most whites have no idea how different and bitter blacks
feel, he tries in one chapter to write as if he were a black
man. The effect is an angry indictment -- and some whites may
find it eye-opening -- but in the end it seems contrived and
patronizing. Surely blacks have ample spokesmen to express
their racial views -- the nuanced, ambivalent views, and the
shriller ones that Mr. Hacker trades in. Elsewhere in the
book, he speculates fantastically about what goes on inside
the heads of "typical" whites. "At least I am prepared to
tell {blacks}," he says, promoting his book, "this is what
America really thinks about you." The question is just how he
knows what most white people "really think." He offers no
evidence, not even for his most sensational claims: that most
whites still feel blacks are inferior and inherently "suited"
to menial work, that whites still "need" to see blacks as
"niggers" in order to feel good about themselves.
   It is often easy, reading "Two Nations," to forget that
the past 30 years happened. Mr. Hacker gives whites no credit
for any new openness. He puts little store by black progress
and seems not to have noticed how successfully black America
has taken its destiny in its own hands, defying bigotry,
beating the odds but also, for better or worse, charting its
own political course. In his time-warped portrait of America,
whites are still calling all the shots -- and still, by their
very white skins, perpetuating the slights of history. Not
only is this unfair and inaccurate, it also makes it harder
for both sides to move ahead. More overheated accusations
will not heal divisions, only create more paranoia and
defensiveness. That is not the way to close the persistent
rifts -- in class and culture and economic survival skills --
that Mr. Hacker documents so well with his statistics.
   ---
   Ms. Jacoby is writing a book on the recent history of race
relations.