President Seeks
   `Modest' Increase
   In NASA Budget
   ----
   By Bob Davis
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
An outline of the NASA budget was released by the White
House as part of a public relations strategy to draw
attention to the popular elements of Mr. Bush's budget. The
Justice Department's turn comes today. Less popular elements
will come when the full budget is released Wednesday.
   President Bush will unveil his "economic growth" package
in his State of the Union address tomorrow. Officials said
the tax portion is expected to include proposals to cut the
capital-gains tax, increase the personal exemption from the
current $2,300 by about $500 a child, offer a tax credit to
first-time home buyers and increase business depreciation
allowances to encourage investment. Mr. Bush also is expected
to talk about his hope for further cuts in defense spending,
his plans for reforming health care, and his determination to
eliminate counterproductive regulation.
   The smaller proposed increase in space spending reflects
budget pressures, administration officials said, as well as
legislative caps placed on NASA's most expensive new
projects: the space station and a constellation of
environmental satellites. Even with the smaller increase, the
space agency is expected to fare well, compared with budget
requests for other agencies.
   The White House is pushing NASA to emphasize smaller,
cheaper missions, which it can launch quickly. In its budget
submission, NASA will ask Congress for $30 million to $40
million to start a series of unmanned probes to the moon.
Each probe would cost about $100 million -- small change for
the space program -- and be scheduled for completion within a
few years. Unlike many new NASA projects, which routinely
cost more than $1 billion and take a decade to build, the new
initiative has a fair amount of support on Capitol Hill.
   NASA is slated to ask for $2.25 billion for its orbiting
space station, an 11% increase from current spending, and
$250 million for a new family of big unmanned rocket boosters
that would be built jointly by NASA and the Pentagon.
Congress approved $83 million for the boosters in the current
fiscal year -- about one-fourth the amount the administration
sought.
   Last year, a House appropriations subcommittee tried to
kill the space station, but lost in a vote on the House
floor. Sen. Barbara Mikulski, (D., Md.), who heads the Senate
appropriations subcommittee overseeing NASA, said she will
press to fully fund the space station this year.