What's News --
   World-Wide
Likud Party that set the stage for early general elections
June 23. An early-elections bill is expected to be submitted
for a vote next week.
   ---
   Haughey announced that he would resign as Ireland's prime
minister next week "to end the present political
uncertainty." The small Progressive Democratic Party,
reacting to charges that Haughey lied about his role in
wiretapping journalists' phones in 1982, had threatened to
bring down the government if he didn't quit.
   ---
   The State Department moved to stem an exodus of Haitian
refugees, saying the U.S. would set up screening facilities
in Haiti so that people who want to enter the U.S. as
refugees can apply without embarking on a dangerous sea
voyage. More than 4,000 Haitians have been picked up by Coast
Guard cutters over the past week.
   ---
   Three federal agencies disclosed the results of an
18-month probe into an international art network that
allegedly duped amateur collectors into paying millions of
dollars for phony "limited edition" works by famous artists.
Officials held a news conference in New York to announce they
had seized more than 70,000 fake prints.
   ---
   New tuberculosis strains were described as being "out of
control" by the American Lung Association, which urged
Congress to appropriate $91 million to combat the dangerous,
drug-resistant strains. Until recently, TB was believed to
have been nearly wiped out. But a drug-resistant strain has
developed that kills 75% of its victims.
   ---
   Ten former Soviet republics joined the Conference on
Security and Cooperation in Europe during a two-day meeting
of the security organization in Czechoslovakia. Yugoslavia's
breakaway states of Croatia and Slovenia were accepted only
as observers.
   ---
   The head of the French Red Cross quit after the
government's admission of radical Palestinian leader Habash
to a Paris hospital Wednesday for treatment of a stroke.
Three government aides also resigned. President Mitterrand,
fending off accusations that France was helping a terrorist,
said Habash's stay should be "extremely brief."
   ---
   The Texas Supreme Court struck down as unconstitutional
the state's far-reaching plan for redistributing funding
among local public school districts, saying that it
effectively created a state-wide property tax.
   ---
   The space shuttle Discovery landed in the California
desert with its seven astronauts after an eight-day research
mission. While in orbit, the crew studied the effects of
space flight and weightlessness.
   ---
   An Army general denied that a six-month delay in notifying
families of friendly fire casualties in the Gulf War was an
attempt to cover up the high number. Lt. Gen. William Reno
said notifications were delayed until investigations could be
completed. According to the Pentagon, 35 of the 148 Americans
killed were victims of friendly fire.
   ---
   North Korea signed a nuclear-safeguards agreement in
Vienna after years of stalling. The signing opens the way for
international inspection of Pyongyang's nuclear facilities,
though North Korean officials were vague about when the
inspections could start.
   ---
   The Senate Finance Committee approved by a voice vote a
$2.7 billion bill that would finance a 13-week extension of
federal benefits for jobless workers. The panel's chairman,
Bentsen of Texas, said he expects the measure, backed by the
White House, to move quickly through Congress.