Algoma Steel Corp.
   Files Its Plan
   For Restructuring
   ----
   By Angela Kryhul
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Dofasco Inc., of Hamilton, Ontario, which acquired Algoma
in 1988, has agreed to give Algoma C$40 million in cash and a
C$10 million letter of credit and to surrender its 100% stake
in the company in return for C$200 million of tax losses.
   Dofasco also will swap the Algoma debentures it holds for
preferred shares in the new company. Other debt holders would
also receive preferred shares in the new company. Algoma said
those shares likely would be listed on a stock exchange.
   The filing of the plan ends more than a year of
speculation about Algoma's future following Dofasco's
write-off of its entire investment in the steelmaker at the
end of 1990. The twice-delayed restructuring plan had been
expected since last February, when Algoma received protection
from creditors under the Companies' Creditors Arrangement
Act, which is similar to Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy
Code.
   The company has been struggling with a debt load in excess
of C$750 million. It projected "significant operating losses"
for 1991, and in the nine months ended Sept. 30, 1991, it
reported a net loss of C$9.4 million after a C$90.2 million
gain on the sale of coal-mining assets. Algoma said it paid
only C$4.2 million interest expense of the C$52.4 million
owing on its debt. The loss for the nine months includes the
C$52.4 million of interest owed.
   The company said it plans to cut total employment to about
4,200 in the next five years, from about 5,800 in 1991.
   Under terms of the new restructuring plan, which must be
approved by employees and creditors, employees would accept a
20% reduction in wages and benefits in exchange for their
majority stake in the new firm. The concessions could save
the company about C$200 million over the next five years,
Algoma said.
   Creditors and shareholders owning preferred shares in the
old Algoma would hold the remaining 40% of the new company's
common shares, which won't be publicly traded.
   Algoma also is asking the federal and provincial
governments for a total of C$95 million in loan guarantees
and another C$50 million over the next five years for
employee training and development.
   The Royal Bank of Canada, which is owed C$87.1 million by
Algoma, agreed to provide a supplementary operating credit of
C$40 million. The bank will receive 9.59% of the new Algoma's
common shares.
   Earl Joudrie, chairman of Algoma, said some of the details
of the restructuring plan might change because the company is
still negotiating with employees, creditors and government
officials. Mr. Joudrie said stakeholder meetings could be
held in early April, and the plan could become effective
April 30.
   "We're trying to stabilize the company for the next two
years, at least. Everybody gets a fair share in the pain,"
Mr. Joudrie said. "If this plan doesn't fly, receivership is
the most probable option."
   A spokesman for the Canadian branch of the United
Steelworkers of America couldn't be reached for comment on
the restructuring proposals.
   Steel analyst Jay Gordon, president of J. Gordon 
Associates in Toronto, said the plan should have been
tougher, cutting wages, production levels and the number of
employees by half.
   "I don't think this plan has a hope," Mr. Gordon said. "I
think they're exceedingly optimistic in their projections of
demand for products and their ability to compete." Mr. Gordon
said the company should discontinue its structural steel
product line and shut down its steel rail mill.
   Mr. Joudrie said Algoma's core business will remain flat
roll, structural and tubular steel products.
   Even if stakeholders approve the package as presented,
some analysts said Algoma's problems won't be at an end.
   "I think Algoma will have a very difficult time in this
environment. It's a very bad steel market, and we don't see
that changing any time soon," said David McCracken, steel
analyst for Sanwa McCarthy Securities Ltd. in Toronto. "We
see a slow economic recovery to 1994 and no robust increase
in steel demand or a significantly better pricing
environment."