Bentsen Tax Bill
   Parallels Plan
   Sought by Bush
   ---
   But Proposal by Democrats
   In Senate Would Raise
   Rates Paid by the Rich
   ----
   By Jackie Calmes
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The rate increase and an additional 10% surtax on
millionaires, which also is part of the House bill, would
finance most of Sen. Bentsen's proposed package of business
and investment tax breaks and a middle-class tax credit. The
credit, $300 a child, would be reduced gradually for families
with annual income above $50,000 a year until the benefit is
phased out entirely for those with more than $70,000. Mr.
Bush omitted a middle-class tax break from his emergency
economic plan.
   Altogether, the Bentsen package contains about $60 billion
of tax cuts through fiscal 1997. Borrowing from the House
bill, the Bentsen plan would allow companies to deduct no
more than $1 million a year for any single executive's
compensation.
   Under the Texas Democrat's plan, businesses would get an
extra 10% depreciation allowance this year for new equipment
purchases; Mr. Bush and the House proposed 15%. Like the
president and the House, Sen. Bentsen would restore some
deductions on rental losses for real-estate professionals,
though details were unclear.
   A proposed capital-gains reduction apparently is much
different from Mr. Bush's proposal to cut the top rate to
15.4% from 28% for most assets. The proposed rates, still
unspecified, would vary according to a taxpayer's tax
bracket. They would be lowest for those with the lowest
incomes and would be virtually unchanged for those in the top
brackets. The reduced rates would apply to existing assets. A
separate provision would allow a much lower tax rate on
future sales of newly issued stock in certain small
companies, a proposal aimed at encouraging new ventures.
   Unlike a House-passed bill, the Bentsen bill would greatly
expand the tax benefits of individual retirement accounts.
Also unlike the House plan, it would permit a $5,000 tax
credit for first-time home buyers. The president made the
same proposal, at an estimated cost of $5.2 billion over six
years. The credit has widespread support, but House Democrats
excluded it from their plan largely due to its cost.
Republicans have seized on that omission, hoping to blunt any
criticism of their side for leaving out Mr. Bush's earlier
proposal for a $500-a-child increase in the personal
exemption claimed by taxpayers.
   Details of the Senate bill were still being decided late
last night, as Sen. Bentsen balanced the need to satisfy his
fellow Democrats' wish lists with the need to keep the
package from adding to the deficit. "He's got the ultimate
problem," said Sen. Bill Bradley, a New Jersey Democrat on
the committee. "There is the honesty problem -- if you're
going to put something in the bill, you have to pay for it."
   With a closely split panel of 11 Democrats and nine
Republicans, the chairman needs the support of everyone in
his party to pass a bill. Sen. Bradley, one of those whose
vote has been in question, said yesterday he thinks the
chairman has that backing. Another senator whose support has
been in some doubt, Louisiana Sen. John Breaux, said, "I'm
inclined to {support the Bentsen package}, but I have to
reserve final comment until I see whether some of the things
I want end up in the final package."
   The finance panel could finish work today. Democratic
leaders want to begin debate in the full Senate next Tuesday
and pass a bill by the end of the week. That would give
Congress a shot at keeping the president's March 20 deadline
for action on an economic-stimulus package. But Mr. Bush has
vowed to veto any bill that increases taxes.
   "I'm hopeful that he'll change his mind," Sen. Bentsen
said on NBC News's "Meet the Press" on Sunday. "He's done
that before."
   The Senate Democrats basically are following the lead of
the House, which last week narrowly passed a Democratic tax
package incorporating the outlines of Mr. Bush's plan, along
with a separate tax cut aimed at middle-income individuals
and a new 35% top rate on upper-income taxpayers. The
congressional Democrats' strategy clearly anticipates Mr.
Bush's veto. They will argue that they gave the president
everything he asked for, yet he killed a bill that cut taxes
for everyone but the richest 1% of Americans.
   Senate Democrats are determined to increase the
House-passed income levels for the new tax, so that only the
richest taxpayers would be affected. But in raising the
limit, senators would in effect exempt themselves -- members
of Congress make $129,500 a year -- and that could pose a
political problem for some lawmakers.
   Another potential problem among Democrats concerns the
$300-a-child tax credit. Sen. Bentsen satisfied some critics
by barring the benefit for upper-income taxpayers -- a
limitation that actually was aimed at holding down the
proposal's estimated cost of $31 billion over five years. But
he insists that the credit be non-refundable, which means
that low-income taxpayers who have little or no tax liability
wouldn't be able to claim the credit. About a quarter of all
children live in poor households and some senators -- notably
Sen. Bradley and West Virginia Sen. John Rockefeller on the
committee -- want those families to benefit.
   The credit, for children under 16, would be permanent. The
House proposal, by contrast, would be available for two years
and provide as much as $400 a family, regardless of whether
the taxpayers have children.
   Sen. Bentsen included his top-priority proposal to restore
a full deduction for taxpayers' annual contributions to IRAs,
currently up to $2,000. The benefit was repealed for
upper-income taxpayers in 1986. He also would create a new
IRA that wouldn't be deductible at the outset, but instead
would allow savers to avoid taxes upon withdrawal.
   Now IRA holders must wait until age 59 1/2 to withdraw
funds without tax penalty, and then pay taxes on the total.
The alternative IRA option would allow savers to forfeit the
immediate deduction, but withdraw their funds after five
years without paying any taxes. Also, taxpayers could roll
over their existing accounts into the new type of IRA, if
they pay taxes on the amount transferred. The revenues gained
from such rollovers would help offset the costs of Sen.
Bentsen's proposal in early years, but critics say the
long-term costs are ignored.
   Like the president and the House, the Senate bill also
would allow early withdrawals from existing IRAs for
purchases of a first home, major medical costs and college
tuition.
   It would extend for another 18 months a group of popular
tax incentives, including credits for businesses' research
and experimentation costs, and low-income housing
development. The bill picks up an administration proposal
increasing taxes on securities firms' inventories, while
independent oil and gas drillers would get some tax relief.
And the bill would repeal a 10% luxury tax on yachts, private
planes, jewelry and furs.
   Sen. Bentsen incorporated his proposals to encourage
health-care coverage. They include a provision allowing
self-employed business people and farmers to deduct all their
health-insurance costs, up from 25%, and expansions of
Medicare to cover a range of preventive services.
   Another provision, pushed by Sen. Bradley and other
Democrats not on the finance panel, would create a new
student-loan program. In an effort to increase aid to the
middle class, the proposal would make government loans
available to most individuals who agree to let the government
withhold a percentage of his or her earnings from paychecks
later. The new program would bypass the banks and other
financial institutions that act as middlemen for existing
loans, and that has provoked their opposition. To hold costs
down, the new program would be available at a limited number
of colleges and universities, to be chosen by the education
secretary.