REVIEW  OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   Whose Revolution?
The most forceful case for the agreement, of course, is to
end the killings. El Salvador's guerrillas were particularly
nasty, waging a war of attrition in which many innocent
civilians were often caught in the cross fire. The country
had to endure years of power outages, destroyed bridges and
dams and frequent guerrilla kidnappings. The Salvadoran army
committed its own atrocities. Amid all this, Salvadorans
voted overwhelmingly for the government.
   But the democratic preferences of the Salvadoran people
have always taken a back seat to the power brokers inside the
Beltway in faraway Washington. Representatives Pat Schroeder,
Jim Wright, Tip O'Neill and Senator Chris Dodd, to name just
a few, opened their doors to pro-guerrilla groups such as
CISPES, an organization co-founded by the brother of El
Salvador's Communist Party chief.
   The resulting standoff between Congress and two Republican
administrations produced a policy mishmash for El Salvador.
U.S. tax money, for example, underwrote a disastrous land
reform/bank nationalization scheme. Eventually, the billions
of dollars we sent to prop up a socialist experiment were
insufficient to keep the economy from collapsing. And so in
1989 Salvadoran voters elected a president who campaigned for
an end to socialism and a decisive defeat of the guerrillas.
   President Cristiani, however, couldn't defeat America's
baleful economic influence. Salvador's vested interests had
by now developed an addiction to U.S. aid, which amounted to
about $4 billion throughout the 1980s and was a bit under
$300 million in 1991. To ensure the continued flow of U.S.
aid, Mr. Cristiani made accommodations with the guerrillas
and will now have to rearrange his political and economic
policies under the watchful eyes of advisers from the U.N.
and the IMF. We wish him luck.
   Perhaps the price of peace justifies these accommodations.
But the Salvadoran people -- an extremely hardworking and
entrepreneurial group -- deserve the free-market economy that
Mr. Cristiani campaigned for and that they voted for. It will
be worth watching whether the "revolution" won at the
negotiating table belongs to the guerrillas who got 15% of
the vote, or to the rest of the Salvadoran people.