Business Bulletin:
   A Special Background Report
   On Trends in Industry
   And Finance
   ----
   By Pamela Sebastian
Marion Merrell says it gets calls from "an unusual number
of physicians" plus even rarer calls from patients.
Ciba-Geigy adds an 800-number for curious smokers. Much is at
stake: The patch market is estimated at $400 million a year
by 1995 and other patches are in the wings. Both doctors and
drug firms note smokers need to alter their behavior, too.
Alan Lipschitz, an assistant professor of psychiatry at New
York Medical College, suggests doctors name an office
"quitting counselor" to help.
   "I would not put the patch on a patient who says, `Well,
let me try it.' The patient has to be motivated," he says.
                                                                                                       

   A SWIZZLE STICK maker swivels to keep up with new times --
and owners.
   The need to advertise on even the smallest item helps
Spir-it Inc. of Wakefield, Mass. A leading maker of plastic
stirrers, it returns to private hands after three years under
the aegis of Metapoint Partners, an investment group. Richard
Oedel, whose father sold the firm in 1988, led the buyback
after running the business with Metapoint. Sales slid during
the Gulf War since air travel fell and airlines account for a
large bit of its $10 million in sales, but are now on the
rise, with a 10% gain in sight this year. New items help,
like the designated driver swizzler: "No thanks, I'm
driving."
   But the biggest growth comes from marketing products like
coffee stirrers and sandwich picks to food-service firms. It
also cut costs, retooled and paid off much of the debt
related to Metapoint's buyout. Spir-it recently borrowed some
$2 million for its management buyback. And Metapoint? The
firm earned more than a 60% return on its cash investment.
"We were happy," says Metapoint President Keith Shaughnessy.
                                                                                                       

   DEATH BENEFITS for the living face a tax test as products
proliferate.
   The tax-free status of life insurance payouts due to
terminal illness is eyed by the IRS. At issue: Do such
"living needs" payments violate laws against using life
insurance as a tax shelter? If taxed, the benefit could be
cut sharply. "A lot of companies are waiting to see how the
tax situation clarifies" before introducing the products,
says Steve Kraus of the American Council of Life Insurance.
Lawmakers back bills to keep the benefits tax-free.
   Despite a tax question, such policies will still grow at
"a very fast rate," says James Inglis, a Philo Smith analyst.
Some insurers don't charge for the living needs benefit -- a
marketing plus for attracting new business. If there isn't an
extra charge for the policy and a death benefit is triggered,
the payment is trimmed to reflect the lost interest to the
insurer. In 1990, 113 companies offered living needs
policies, up 61% from a year before, says the insurance
council.
   Triggering events include illnesses such as AIDS or cancer
as well as permanent nursing home confinement.
                                                                                                       

   MCI TAKES AN MBA program in-house with the help of Fordham
University's graduate school of business administration. The
school customizes courses in telecommunications and teaches
classes two nights a week at MCI's offices in Manhattan. Some
35 employees enroll.
                                                                                                       

   ENVIRONMENTAL ETHICS statements topped the list of
additions to corporate ethics policies over the past three
years, says the Conference Board in New York.
                                                                                                       

   EXPECT QUESTIONS about corporate governance, executive
pay, environmental liability, internal financial controls and
a unified Europe, says consultant Deloitte  Touche's 1992
management guide to shareholder queries at annual meetings.
                                                                                                       

   VALENTINE'S DAY leads off a long weekend, adding marketing
prospects.
   The saint's day (tomorrow) precedes Presidents' Day
(Monday), spurring hotels to offer package deals. The
Sheraton in Newport Beach, Calif., sells out its 60 Friday
night specials and nears Saturday's limit. In New York, the
American Harvest restaurant in the Vista Hotel suggests that
diners "stay the night." It expects 75% will, including Wall
Street workers whose spouses can join them in the city for
the evening.
   Despite weekend dining options, most couples prefer going
out on Valentine's Day itself. Thomas Carey Sr., president of
the Hawthorne Race Course in Stickney, Ill., usually takes
his wife out to dinner and will again Friday. Mr. Carey
debated giving chocolate hearts to women who come to the
racetrack Friday, but decided to distribute the candy to men,
too.
   Pam Edstrom, a principal in a Portland, Ore., public
relations firm, will use the day most aptly: for her wedding.
                                                                                                       

   BRIEFS: Termites ate the equivalent of 26 new homes in
Miami during 1991, making that city No. 1 on the "Termite Top
Ten" list from Orkin Pest Control. . . . The Quilted Giraffe,
a swank Manhattan restaurant famed for "beggar's purses" --
caviar-filled crepes crowned with gold leaf -- now adds
"recession purses": crepes filled with turnips, cabbage and
bacon and tied with a blanched chive.