Law -- Legal Beat:
   Percentage of Minorities, Women
   At Elite Law Firms Varies by City
   ----
   By Junda Woo and Wade Lambert
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
-- In San Francisco, 4.6% of the partners at the firms in
the survey are minorities, and 13.6% are women. The Bay City
leads all other cities in both categories.
   -- In contrast, the figure for minority partners is less
than 2% in Chicago, Cleveland, Houston, and Baltimore. And
New York, Houston and Cleveland trail in women partners, with
totals of about 10%.
   -- Law firms in all cities do much better in recruiting
women and minorities for associate positions, which don't
provide for a share of partnership profits. But relatively
few of these associates become partners.
   Some lawyers said the disparities may have as much to do
with the attractiveness of various cities to women and
minorities as with the efforts of the law firms to open the
doors of the traditionally white, male bastions.
   But Mary Ann Coffey, executive director of the National
Conference of Women's Bar Associations, and others expressed
particular surprise at New York's low ranking for women
partners. "Maybe they feel that they've let enough of us in,
that they've got enough women," said Ms. Coffey.
   The survey also found that about 34% of New York
associates are women, a lower percentage than in many other
cities.
   Ned B. Stiles, managing partner of the New York law firm
Cleary, Gottlieb, Steen  Hamilton, which has seven women
among its 115 partners, said women may be rejecting New York
because its firms generally require long apprenticeships --
as many as nine years -- before considering associates for
partnership. Many other cities name partners after only five
to seven years of service, which may better accommodate
women's child-bearing plans.
   Also, New York law firms, because of their higher revenues
and strong national reputations, can afford to be less
flexible about insurance and other benefits that women might
look for more than men, suggested Ward Bower, a principal in
Altman  Weil, an Ardmore, Pa., legal consulting firm.
   Cleveland ranked poorest overall in the survey, scoring at
or near the bottom among large cities for both women and
minorities. The finding puzzled some at the city's firms.
"Cleveland is a real ethnic hodgepodge," said Fred Nance, a
partner at Squire, Sanders  Dempsey and an African American,
who said he thought the city's totals would be higher.
   But John Crump, executive director of the largely black
National Bar Association in Washington, D.C., said the racial
breakdowns within law firms roughly parallel the minority
populations in those cities. "I'd rather be in San Francisco
than Baltimore," he said. "It's just a better place to live."
   Huge disparities also exist among individual firms. In New
York, for example, 14 of the 73 partners at Bower  Gardner
are women, while at Cahill, Gordon  Reindel, only two of the
60 partners are women. "I just don't know why," said Roger
Meltzer, Cahill Gordon's co-administrative partner. "This is
a firm that does not discriminate. This is a firm that does
have very strict standards of partnership." As more women
become associates, he said, more will be made partners.
   Ms. Coffey, in contrast, attributed differences among
firms to "preconceived notions and gender bias."
                                                                                                       

   ALLEGED MOB BOSS to appeal judge's decision to disqualify
defense attorneys.
   U.S. Judge I. Leo Glasser in Brooklyn has barred four
attorneys from continuing to represent defendants in the case
against John Gotti, who is accused of racketeering and
murder. Mr. Gotti, who the government alleges is the head of
the Gambino crime family, was acquitted in three previous
trials.
   William Kunstler, a prominent civil-rights attorney, said
he will ask the federal appeals court in Manhattan to
reinstate the attorneys, including Bruce Cutler, who won
acquittals for Mr. Gotti in the previous cases. Mr. Kunstler,
who is handling the case pro bono, said the judge violated
Mr. Gotti's and his co-defendant's constitutional rights by
depriving them of their choice of counsel.
   Judge Lasker disqualified the defense attorneys after
determining that they were "house counsel" for the Gambino
crime family. But Mr. Kunstler said, "The government is
seeking an unfair advantage" by getting rid of attorneys who
have been successful in defending Mr. Gotti.
   By coincidence, Mr. Gotti's request could end up before an
appellate panel including former U.S. Supreme Court Associate
Justice Thurgood Marshall. The retired justice is sitting on
the Second U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in Manhattan
tomorrow, and Mr. Kunstler said arguments in the appeal could
be heard either today or tomorrow. Although retired from the
Supreme Court, Justice Marshall is permitted to fill in for
lower federal court judges. He was an appellate judge on the
Second Circuit in the early 1960s.
                                                                                                       

   MANAGEMENT GURU ENDOWS First Amendment fellowship at ACLU.
   Author and consultant Thomas J. Peters said he and his
wife, Catherine S. Abbe, decided to give the $1 million gift
to the American Civil Liberties Union because the
organization does the most to defend the First Amendment
right to free speech. The fellowship is to be named after
William J. Brennan, the recently retired associate justice of
the U.S. Supreme Court.
   The first William J. Brennan fellow will serve in the
ACLU's Arts Censorship Project starting in September. Mr.
Peters said the goal of the fellowship is to interest young
people in devoting their careers to First Amendment work. "We
want it to be the ACLU equivalent of a Supreme Court
clerkship," said Mr. Peters, who co-authored "In Search of
Excellence."