Japanese Car Makers, Under Pressure
   From Tokyo, Plan to Raise U.S. Prices
   ----
   By Clay Chandler and Joseph B. White
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
The thought of price increases "has risen to the base of
everyone's throat," Nissan President Yutaka Kume told a
gathering for Japanese reporters last week, but so far no one
has "let the words out of their mouth."
   By raising prices, Japanese manufacturers can position
themselves to maintain revenues and profits, even if the
Tokyo government moves to defuse trade tensions by cutting
shipments of cars to the U.S. Such a cut now appears likely,
analysts and industry executives say.
   At the same time, higher prices on Japanese cars would
help Detroit's Big Three by giving them more room to scale
back costly discounts now offered to consumers. General
Motors Corp., Ford Motor Co. and Chrysler Corp. are expected
to post record combined losses of $6 billion for 1991.
Chrysler last week reported a loss of $795 million for 1991.
A break in the bruising competition with Japanese rivals
could help the Big Three regain profitability if the economy
recovers later this year.
   Officials at Japan's Ministry of International Trade and
Industry say only that they're re-examining the so-called
"voluntary" export limits, which have been a pillar of the
U.S.-Japan trade relationship since 1981. But industry
analysts and executives expect the current 2.3 million
vehicle limit will be tightened before April 1, the start of
Japan's next fiscal year.
   "Given the political pressures and renewed scrunity on
motor vehicle trade, I think it's quite clear that Japan is
going to be lowering the export quota this year," said
Stephen Usher, a Tokyo automobile industry analyst with
Kleinwort Benson International Ltd.
   Toyota didn't elaborate on the size of its planned price
increases. The company attributed the decision to a 9% rise
in the value of the yen against the dollar since last year.
The Toyota price increase would be the third since January
1991. Just last fall, Toyota raised prices as much as 11.5%
on some of its models in the U.S.
   Privately, Toyota officials say politics is playing a big
part in the pricing strategy and in other corporate moves.
Toyota, the richest and most efficient of Japan's auto
makers, is under particular pressure from government
officials to set an example for the rest of Japanese industry
by slowing its overseas expansion plans and giving Detroit
some breathing space.
   Japanese officials fear that if the Big Three continue to
bleed cash and slash jobs in a presidential election year,
the result will be a political backlash that hurts all
Japanese industry.
   Toyota is responding with a variety of initiatives to
decrease its contribution to the U.S.-Japan trade deficit --
which totaled $41 billion last year -- and strengthen its
image as a good U.S. corporate citizen. Last week, the
company used the occasion of the Chicago Auto Show to
announce that it plans to nearly double its exports of
U.S.-made vehicles, and expects to ship 100,000 U.S.-made
engines for use in Japan. Recent advertisements for Toyota's
Camry models highlight the fact that most are built in
Georgetown, Ky.
   "Toyota is part of the solution, not part of the problem,"
said George Borst, vice president for strategic and product
planning at Toyota's U.S. sales arm.
   Still, some Japanese officials see cutting the export
limit as critical to blunting protectionist sentiment in the
U.S. Congress and to bolstering the uncertain re-election
prospects of President Bush. They argue this even though
Japanese car makers' U.S. plants such as Toyota's Georgetown
facility have made the 11-year-old voluntary export limits
largely moot in recent years.
   Japan's auto exports to the U.S. have run well below the
2.3 million-vehicle level allowed by the voluntary restraints
since 1987. In the fiscal year ended last March 31, Japan
exported 1.9 million passenger cars to the U.S. In the nine
months ended Dec. 31, the exports were 1.3 million, slightly
below the previous year's figure.
   Mr. Kume, who also is president of the Japan Automobile
Manufacturers Association, said it is "more reasonable" for
MITI to leave export quotas alone and let auto makers decide
how and when to forgo increased sales volume in return for
higher prices.