LEISURE  ARTS -- On Sports:
   Still a Slugger at Thirtysomething
   ----
   By Frederick C. Klein
Always a good hitter by contemporary standards, Molitor
has, in his presumed athletic dotage, become a very good one.
Over the past five seasons he has posted four of his best
five batting averages, topped by his .353 in 1987. His mark
last season -- .325, with 17 home runs and 75 runs batted in
-- didn't match that, but it included a career-high number of
hits (216), which led the American League. His 133 runs did
the same.
   The 1991 stats that tickled Molitor most, though, were his
ones for games played (158) and times at bat (665). "They
meant I went an entire season without anything terrible
happening to me," he said the other day under the clear
desert sky. "It was nice not always being asked how my rehab
was coming, or when I'd be getting off the disabled list."
   Indeed, were it not for injuries of various kinds and
seriousness -- not to mention strangeness (he missed a large
chunk of games in 1990 when he fractured a knuckle by getting
a finger caught in a first baseman's glove while running out
a ground ball) -- the drums might already be beating for a
future Hall of Fame plaque for Molitor. His 2,086 career hits
at this point in his life probably are a mite few for that
purpose, but a dozen trips to the disabled list over the
years have pared more than 500 games -- or about three full
seasons -- off his tenure. The Brewers have calculated that
projecting his averages over those missing contests would
have him knocking on the door to 2,500 hits, behind which is
H of F country.
   This is the guy, after all, about whom the Oakland A's
Dennis Eckersley, the premier relief pitcher of recent years,
has said: "He's a good fast-ball hitter and a good
breaking-ball hitter. He's got speed, he can bunt and he has
power."
   That about covers everything, doesn't it?
   Molitor has stood out in the field, too, if only by virtue
of versatility; at one time or another as a Brewer, he has
played every position save pitcher or catcher. Last season,
he mostly sat on the bench between times at bat, which is to
say he was a designated hitter. And while he did not -- and
does not -- welcome this sign of baseball mortality, he has
come to accept it.
   "The logic of the move was that DHing would reduce my
chance of injury, and it proved correct," he notes. But he
adds: "That doesn't mean I like it. You're at bat, maybe, 10
minutes out of a three-hour game, and that means you have an
awful lot of time on your hands."
   Molitor puts part of that time to use doing the things
most designated hitters do, such as stretching exercises and
riding the clubhouse stationary bike. But he also does
something many don't -- he studies the best of the
opposition's hitters. He believes that this as much as
anything accounts for his latter-day improvement.
   He acknowledges that the practice goes against
conventional wisdom, which holds that hitters improve by
studying pitchers. "I try to figure out pitchers' tendencies,
like what they usually throw when they're ahead or behind in
the count, but I'm a batter who reacts instead of guesses, so
I don't go much beyond that," he says. "By watching other
hitters, I learn things I can apply no matter who's on the
mound."
   One of his teachers-by-example has been Wade Boggs of the
Boston Red Sox. "He showed me how far you can let a pitch
come to you before you must react," Molitor says. Another has
been the Minnesota Twins' Kirby Puckett, whom the Milwaukeean
considers a model for adjusting his stance and batters'-box
position with the count and game situation.
   "You strive for a balance between aggressiveness and
discipline," Molitor summarizes. "If you get it, you can
avoid the peaks and valleys that drive everyone crazy."
   What he liked best about his plate performance last season
was its high-level consistency. This is something a lot of
athletes talk about but few achieve to the extent he did in
1991. For instance, he batted .326 against right-handed
pitchers and .322 against lefties; .316 in night games and
.348 during the day; and .300 or better in five of the
campaign's six months. "I risked the accusation of being
boring, but it was something I could live with," he smiles.
   Molitor has been consistent in another way: His 14 years
with the Brewers is an oddity in this era of player mobility.
More unusual yet is the fact that two of his teammates --
center fielder Robin Yount and second baseman Jim Gantner --
have been there at least as long as he has. That's probably
some sort of record.
   The apex of the Molitor-Yount-Gantner era was the Brewers'
1982 pennant, but the team's recent history has been sadder,
with no divisional finish higher than third during the past
nine seasons. Molitor would like this one to be better on any
number of grounds, but the old-buddy angle is among the
strongest.
   "Robin has been talking lately about retiring, and Jim has
been playing season to season for a couple years now. This
could be our last year together, and it'd be nice to make it
a good one," he says. "You can't bank too much on us all
improving with age."