LEISURE  ARTS -- Television:
   Mr. Goodnet Stays the Course
   ----
   By Dorothy Rabinowitz
The show, which opened to unusually fervent critical
acclaim, may not have found a wide audience yet, but it has
found a passionate one. It is an audience that writes
letters, many of which begin with lines like, "I'm a Middle
American Wasp and I live for this program" or "I'm Catholic
and this show means a lot to me."
   "Brooklyn Bridge," Gary David Goldberg's autobiographical
series about the Silvers, a Jewish family in the 1950s, does
in fact include a Catholic presence. Alan, the older of the
two young Silvers, has fallen for the beautiful Katie
Monahan, who attends parochial school and has a pack of
girlfriends all named Mary.
   The first time Katie Monahan's parochial school teacher
and family were introduced, at the beginning of the series,
it became clear something new and significant was afoot on
prime time. Here are devout Catholics who have minds, who
talk like regular people rather than fanatics; here a priest
is something other than a caricature, neither a cute
reprobate nor a mad enforcer. This is a far cry from the
nastiness usually accorded pious Catholics and Catholicism on
TV. As anyone who watches concentrated amounts of television,
especially made-for-TV movies, can attest, a crucifix worn on
the chest is an absolutely reliable signal from the writer
that the bearer is a primitive.
   Not that "Brooklyn Bridge" doesn't deal in what you might
call religious differences; it revels in them. One of the
master episodes of the season had Katie dragging her
policeman father, no philo-Semite, to meet Alan's family.
This daring, if fanciful, episode pitted Alan's grandmother
Sophie, no devotee of mixing with Gentiles herself, against
Officer Monahan in a Chinese restaurant. It could have been
the soppiest of encounters, what with Sophie listening to
mournful songs of the Holocaust, the policeman brooding over
his Irish rebel anthems, and both families setting forth for
the dinner encounter to the tunes -- and the appropriate
gang-war lyrics -- from "West Side Story."
   But in a time acrawl with TV writers preening themselves
on having dared new forms and breakthroughs, it's worth
noting that this episode of "Brooklyn Bridge" stands as one
of the rare instances of prime-time daring in which something
was dared. For one thing, it was about something besides the
celebration of its own daring.
   The fine brew of hilarity, passion, sentimentality and
slight craziness in this and most other episodes of the
series of course owes almost everything to the writing and
the cast. Peter Friedman brings a quiet stature to the
character of the father, an unassuming post-office clerk who
has time, when he comes off the night shift at 2 a.m., to
listen to his wakeful youngest child, Nathaniel, babble about
a book he is reading.
   In a TV world teeming with beautiful little boys, Matthew
Siegel's Nathaniel is the face it's impossible to tire of.
But by now everyone in the cast has grown into his or her
role, including the estimable Louis Zorich, who plays
Grandpa, a man who does most of his talking with his
eyebrows. As the boys' mother Amy Aquino is a force, though
necessarily a drab presence compared with her mother, the
regal Sophie.
   Minor characters are the real measure of a work -- a fact
that always leaps to mind during the invariably terrific
scenes involving Sid Elgart, the local candy-store owner. Who
wouldn't recognize the surly pretensions, the eloquent
grievances of this character as played by David Wohl? Then
there are Alan Silver's neighborhood pals, Warren (Aeryk
Egan) and the hapless Benny (Jake Jundef). It's hard to
remember when last TV offered a cast of secondary characters
so devotedly chiseled and detailed. There is, finally, of
course, the character of Sophie, Marion Ross's Sophie,
without whom, it's safe to say, "Brooklyn Bridge" could not
have spanned the distances to so many hearts. So completely
has Ms. Ross succeeded in turning herself into the dauntless,
arrogantly principled, loving and seductive Sophie, immigrant
Jewish grandmother, it seems a kind of mystery every time she
opens her mouth, or washes a dish. It is an extraordinary
achievement.
   While we're pondering mysteries we can also note that the
network that gave us the season's best comedy-drama is also
the one that has been turning out the best TV films. This, as
the Marxists of yore used to say, is no accident, comrade;
the CBS movie division is choosing more intelligent scripts.
Witness such films as "Face of a Stranger" and "In a Child's
Name," to mention just two from this season. This Sunday
brings "A Woman Scorned: The Betty Broderick Story" (9-11
p.m. EST), which may be the best offering of the season so
far and is also likely to raise a lot of hackles.
   Betty Broderick is the affluent San Diego woman recently
convicted of murdering her former husband and his new wife,
and sentenced to 32 years to life. Based on a piece by L.A.
reporter Amy Wallace, the script (Joe Cacaci) is notably
lacking in the standard exculpatory explanations for this
sort of crime. A rich portrait of homicidal rage, it delivers
the mysteries of character and pathology precisely because it
avoids lectures on victimization.
   It is reported that Meredith Baxter, who plays Mrs.
Broderick, meant to impart a sympathetic dimension to this
character, and her reasons for committing murder. If that's
the case, Ms. Baxter is certainly in for a surprise when she
sits down and watches herself in this pure, relentlessly
chilling portrayal. "Trust the tale," D.H. Lawrence might
have told her, "not the teller."