Airlines Claim
   Inquiry on Fares
   Is Unwarranted
   ---
   Justice Officials Won't Find
   Evidence of Price-Fixing,
   Several Carriers Contend
   ----
   By Asra Q. Nomani
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
A Northwest Airlines spokesman said, "Airline industry
price fixing is an oxymoronic phrase -- with an emphasis on
the moronic -- because you're talking about an industry that
is probably the most competitive in the world. Industry
competition has helped it rack up about $6 billion in losses
in the last two years." He added: "We think there are
probably better things the Justice Department could be
doing."
   The Justice Department has sent so-called civil
investigative demands for depositions to current and former
airline officials. It's estimated that 30 or so individuals
are getting the demands, which are used in civil cases the
same way subpoenas are used in criminal cases, to get
depositions or records.
   A Justice Department spokeswoman yesterday confirmed that
demands for depositions had been issued. She called the
investigation a "high priority matter" within the
department's antitrust division.
   The call for depositions springs from two earlier demands
for information from the airlines: one, in September 1989,
involved a fare increase led by AMR's American Airlines and a
second, in June 1990, related to the airlines' involvement
with Airline Tariff Publishing Co., a Washington, D.C.,
computerized fare clearinghouse. Industry observers read the
government's latest move as an acceleration of the Justice
Department's drawn-out investigation.
   The price-fixing investigation appears to revolve around
the question of whether airlines are illegally using ATP to
send secretly-coded messages to each other about whether they
want prices to go up, down or stay the same.
   Several airlines adamantly denied yesterday that they're
doing anything wrong.
   At a New York meeting with Wall Street analysts yesterday,
UAL Corp. Chairman Stephen Wolf sought to dismiss the Justice
Department investigation, indicating that government lawyers
are getting an education in airline pricing and that they
will back off when they learn more about how fares are set,
according to a person who attended the meeting.
   A spokesman at UAL's United Airlines wouldn't comment on
the investigation. The Justice Department spokeswoman refused
to comment on the scope of the government's requests for
depositions.
   The American Airlines spokesman said that four current and
one former official of the carrier have been served with
papers requiring depositions, which are scheduled to start
next week. He said all the officials have worked or work in
the airline's domestic pricing area in "midlevel management."
He said they were "people close to the nuts-and-bolts of the
investigation."
   It's understood that three current and four former
officials of Northwest Airlines, a St. Paul, Minn., unit of
Wings Holdings Inc., have been told to appear for
depositions. A Northwest spokesman confirmed that some
officials have received demands, but said he didn't know how
many. A spokesman at USAir Group Inc., Arlington, Va., said
some of its employees have received demands to schedule
depositions.
   A spokesman at Continental Airlines Holdings Inc.'s
Continental Airlines unit refused to comment. Trans World
Airlines officials didn't return calls seeking comment. It's
understood that officials from both Houston-based Continental
and TWA, Mount Kisco, N.Y., have been asked to schedule
depositions with Justice Department lawyers.
   It's also understood that officials at Phoenix-based
America West Airlines haven't yet received demands for
depositions, although the carrier has received earlier
requests from the Justice Department for records and other
information. People familiar with the government's
investigation have said that Justice Department lawyers have,
however, personally visited America West officials at their
headquarters to interview them on the intricacies of airline
pricing and airlines' relationships with ATP.
   At Atlanta-based Delta Air Lines, a spokesman said five
officials from the carrier's "pricing area" have received
demands for depositions. He said the depositions haven't been
taken yet, and dates for them haven't been scheduled. "We are
cooperating," he said, adding that "we've consistently
maintained that all of our activities are perfectly legal."
   Part of the Justice Department's investigation appears to
focus on whether airlines act illegally by sending up trial
balloons for fare increases, and then withdrawing or
instituting the increases depending on how rivals react. The
Delta spokesman said the Justice Department is pursuing a
"novel theory" that "focuses on advance notice of increases,"
but the carrier denied any wrongdoing.
   The spokesman said: "It's routine to see Toyota or GM
announce price increases at a future date." He said ATP "is
basically just a method of communicating. It's just quicker.
Unless we call another airline on the phone to raise fares,
it's not illegal." Critics argue, however, that the ATP
system serves as a high-tech substitute for person-to-person
discussions.
   Airlines contend that consumers would be hurt if carriers
couldn't issue advance notice of fare increases. "The
consumer would otherwise make a reservation, and then, boom,
when they go to pay for it, they would get hit with a fare
increase without any notice," the Delta spokesman said. "The
consumer would be ill-served by a different method."
   ---
   Joe Davidson in Washington contributed to this article.