Public or Private?
   New Hybrid Issues
   Blur the Distinction
But that clear-cut distinction is being blurred, Wall
Street professionals say, by the introduction of hybrid
offerings that combine elements of both public and private
securities. At least $3 billion of these debt issues have
been issued so far, according to Investment Dealers' Digest,
and many more are in the pipeline.
   Among the biggest hybrid issues to date is a note offering
made last fall by Schering-Plough Corp. that raised $575
million. As is common with a publicly traded securities, the
pharmaceutical company's notes carried a high credit rating;
also like a public issue, the notes were underwritten, in
this case by Merrill Lynch  Co., which bought the notes and
resold them to investors as part of a bigger securities deal
with Schering-Plough.
   "If Merrill couldn't sell the notes, Merrill was going to
own the notes," said Dale Paulshock, a Merrill Lynch managing
director involved in the offering. The Schering-Plough notes
have been heavily traded since then, with more than $200
million of the notes changing hands, she said.
   But despite the earmarks of a public offering,
Schering-Plough's issue was actually a private placement made
under the SEC's Rule 144a, approved in 1990. Rule 144a made
it practical for the first time for Wall Street to underwrite
private placements like public offerings, bolstering the
appeal of private placements to issuers, both U.S. and
foreign, that want to sell securities while avoiding the
disclosure requirements of registration.
   After being acquired by Merrill, the Schering-Plough notes
were resold to big investors under the part of the SEC rule
that allows institutions with assets of more than $100
million to trade unregistered securities among themselves.
   The distinctions between public and private deals are
getting so muddy that a growing number of insurance companies
are combining their once-separate investment staffs for
public and private investments.