Economy:
   Executives See Commercial Real Estate
   Staying Depressed Three to Five Years
   ----
   By Jim Carlton
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The survey of 1,724 executives coincides with a Grubb 
Ellis Co. report that the national vacancy rate for office
space rose to 18.9% in the fourth quarter from 18.6% a year
earlier. The increase occurred even though office
construction declined for the sixth consecutive quarter, and
was fueled chiefly by significant additions of space in some
of the nation's most glutted central business districts,
including Los Angeles, Miami and Cleveland, according to
Grubb  Ellis, a commercial real estate brokerage firm in San
Francisco.
   Other recent surveys have also found heightened pessimism
among real estate executives, who have cited the dearth of
credit from banks as one of the major problems confronting
their industry.
   With years of bloated inventories under their belt, many
real estate executives polled a year ago thought the
commercial market was near bottom and poised for a rebound.
But they responded more pessimistically this year as the
magnitude of the 1980s overbuilding binge came into focus. "I
think it's realism setting in and it's also the stubborness
of the financing crisis that has become more pronounced,"
said Ivan Faggen, world-wide director of Arthur Andersen's
real estate services unit, a research and consulting arm of
Arthur Andersen  Co., a Chicago-based accounting and
consulting firm.
   Under pressure from both government regulators and
shareholders, banks are requiring significantly more equity
from developers before making construction loans and there is
much stricter monitoring of the borrower's activities. As a
result, 68% of developers surveyed said they were having a
"very difficult" time getting new loans, and 61% anticipate
difficulty refinancing bank loans that come due within two
years.
   Because of the tougher bank rules, developers said they
are being forced to turn to alternative money sources.
Pension funds are viewed as one likely route, with 42% of
developers surveyed identifying pension funds as a source of
debt financing by 1995, compared with 19% identifying them as
a source today. And 25% of the developers predicted they
would obtain financing from foreign banks, compared with 13%
who said they do so today.
   Three-quarters of lenders surveyed in the same poll said
they would make "absolutely" no loans for hotel and resort
development, and 41% said they would provide no financing for
downtown office buildings. However, lenders offered a
comparatively rosy view for apartments, the commercial sector
that most analysts believe is closest to a turnaround. Of the
lenders surveyed, 40% cited apartment developers as having
the best record in meeting finance payments, while hotel and
resort developers were considered the worst performers.
   On a regional basis, the real estate executives polled
viewed the Southeast as most attractive for development over
the next three years, while they ranked the Northeast as the
worst, even behind opportunities in Central America and Asia.
In metropolitan areas, Dallas-Fort Worth, Atlanta and Houston
were ranked as having the best potential for return on real
estate investment, while Boston, New York and Los Angeles
were ranked at the bottom.
   Separately, a survey of about 500 bank examiners at the
Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. showed an increase in home
sales and prices but found commercial property markets
continuing to slide.
   In its survey, the FDIC asked examiners to assess local
real estate markets between October and January. Two-thirds
reported that sales of commercial properties were below
average, half mentioned falling prices for commercial real
estate, and about 86% reported an excess of commercial
buildings available.