Colgate Plans
   To Buy Mennen
   For $670 Million
   ---
   Transaction Is Mostly Stock;
   Buyer Also Posts Rise
   Of 18% in 4th-Period Net
   ----
   By Kathleen Deveny
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The transaction, payable 80% in stock and 20% in cash, is
expected to dilute Colgate's 1992 annual earnings by three to
five cents a share. Prior to the announcement, analysts had
predicted Colgate would earn $2.89 a share this year. Moody's
Investors Service Inc. confirmed Colgate's single-A-2
long-term debt rating and the Prime-1 short-term rating of
the company for commercial paper.
   Separately, Colgate reported fourth-quarter net income
increased 18% to $86.9 million, or 58 cents a share, buoyed
by a strong unit sales in its U.S. operations. In the
year-earlier quarter, the company earned $73.5 million, or 52
cents a share. Revenue rose 7% to $1.58 billion from $1.48
billion.
   In late composite trading yesterday on the New York Stock
Exchange, Colgate was quoted at $46.75, down 62.5 cents.
   Colgate's U.S. sales total only about $2 billion of the
consumer-product giant's $6 billion in world-wide revenue.
While its flagship toothpaste and Colgate shaving cream
brands remain strong, its U.S. operations depend heavily on
sales of such lowmargin household products as Ajax cleanser,
Palmolive dishwashing liquid and Fab laundry detergent.
   "The acquisition significantly shifts their U.S. sales mix
away from household products, into higher-margin personal
care products," says Andrew Shore, an analyst with Prudential
Securities Inc.
   The Mennen family's decision to sell the 114-year-old
company comes at a time when the personal-care industry is
being increasingly consolidated into the hands of such
multinational packaged-goods marketers as Colgate, Procter 
Gamble Co., and Unilever Group. Smaller companies like Mennen
are finding it increasingly difficult to match the marketing
and distribution clout of larger rivals.
   Wall Street analysts said Colgate is in a good position to
further develop Mennen's operations outside the U.S., because
of its strong international distribution system. Colgate
officials said Mennen's $100 million Latin American
operations were particularly attractive.
   "Our strength is in developing markets," said Reuben Mark,
Colgate's chairman and chief executive. "Mennen provides a
considerable potential for international expansion."
   Although Colgate's Mr. Mark maintains Mennen's business is
solid, its share of the U.S. deodorant market dipped in 1989
and 1990 amid fierce competition from such new products as
Degree, made by Helene Curtis Industries Inc., and Unilever's
Powerstick. But by boosting its marketing spending, Mennen
managed to regain much of that share, according to Bonita
Austin, an analyst with Shearson Lehman Brothers Inc.
   Ms. Austin estimates Mennen's line now accounts for 17% of
U.S. deodorant sales, trailing only Procter  Gamble's 26.6%.
Other major players include Gillette Co., with about 15.6%,
Carter-Wallace Inc. with 9.3%, Bristol-Myers Squibb with
8.1%, Helene Curtis with 8%, Unilever with 6% and Revlon Inc.
with 4.6%. Although the category is slow-growing, Ms. Austin
says operating margins average a hefty 23%.