LEISURE  ARTS:
   A Mouseburger Who Made Good
   ----
   By Amy Gamerman
In fact, you probably don't know Ms. Esterman, unless you
managed to get tickets to "Marvin's Room," Scott McPherson's
acclaimed tragicomedy, now playing at off-Broadway's
Playwrights Horizons after stints in Chicago and Hartford,
Conn. Ms. Esterman plays Bessie, a spinster who has spent
most of her life watering, feeding and otherwise tending to
her vegetative father, Marvin, and her batty Aunt Ruth. When
Bessie develops leukemia, she faces her illness with the same
relentless cheeriness she displays when changing Marvin's
soiled sheets.
   For those who missed her "L.A. Law" cameo, the performance
is vivid proof of Ms. Esterman's gift for taking what could
be the most unbelievable character -- a truly good person --
and making her seem totally real. "I remember in the
beginning thinking, no one is going to believe this -- she's
too nice," she says. "I didn't. I was terrified I wouldn't
pull it off, or people would hate her because she was so
good."
   She pulled it off. After years of relative obscurity
outside the tight circle of New York's theater community, Ms.
Esterman has won the kind of raves that most actors dream of
while declaiming the day's specials or reading Backstage.
   It's a great performance built on small moments. From her
squinty-eyed smile to her pigeon-toed stance, Ms. Esterman
captures the unassuming modesty of a woman who has shouldered
the family duties her flashier sister has escaped. She more
than meets the script's moments of high drama -- exploding in
sudden anger when her nephew accuses her of having wasted her
life. But her incidental scenes communicate almost as much.
When Bessie finds a photograph of her long-dead mother, a
wealth of memories flicker across Ms. Esterman's face. It's a
tiny moment, but it opens a window on a complex emotional
life.
   Ms. Esterman is quick to distance herself from Bessie's
selfless goodness, but the two have one thing in common:
They're both underdogs. Ms. Esterman is a mouseburger who
made good. Very thin, with the kind of looks often described
as "interesting," the actress revels in being able to flaunt
her "wrinkly eyes" and funny teeth in this play. "I go out
there and feel really plain," she says happily.
   A doctor's daughter from Long Island, she plunged into
regional theater after graduating from Radcliffe with an
English B.A. in 1966. She's worked steadily for years, but
the big break always eluded her: In L.A. she was a hit in
Steven Berkoff's "Kvetch," but the play crash-landed in New
York ("the critics hated it"). Her Broadway parts -- she was
Mikhail Baryshnikov's mother in "Metamorphosis" -- have
brought solid work, but not overnight stardom. The odd movie
role and television appearance round out her resume. She
hasn't done many commercials. "If I could get them, I'd do
them," she says. "I'm not too great at getting them."
   Now, at an age when many more-established actresses begin
to fear for their careers, Ms. Esterman has connected with a
part that could transform her own. But how -- and if -- it
will do so remains to be seen. A movie version of "Marvin's
Room" is now in pre-production.
   "If I say the handful of A-list actresses are after the
role, that's pretty accurate," says producer-director Bonnie
Palef. "They've all been spending their own money to fly in
and see it."
   Ms. Esterman knows the score.
   "If the movie gets made, they'll make it with a movie
star, whether she's right for the part or not," she says
bluntly. "The likelihood of my doing the movie is
infinitesimal if not nil, and that's somebody else's problem.
I'm not a movie star."
   Not that she's ruling it out. "Sure, I'd love it if some
director just came and took me right now and put me in a
movie," she says. "That could happen. It could]"
   But right now, her main concern is the play, which after
Feb. 23 may move to a larger off-Broadway theater. Ms.
Esterman has been "Marvin's" Bessie since the play originated
in Chicago nearly two years ago, and keeping her performance
fresh requires constant vigilance: When the little pink
sweater she wears in several scenes bagged out after some
imprudent cleaning, Ms. Esterman threw the kind of fit some
actors pull over billing.
   "I went nuts," she says. "I said, `I can't do this play
without that sweater, you gotta do something,' so they ended
up having to take seams in and sew it."
   Even when she is invisible to the audience in Marvin's
room -- which is blocked off by an opaque glass-brick wall --
Ms. Esterman is acting away.
   "It's not like you go back there and just goof off," she
says. "When I go in there, I really relate to him as my
father. . . . I dress him, I change the sheets, I change the
pajama top. I'm really doing it. I don't talk to him but I
smile to him and pat him on the face and I have little secret
things that I do with him."
   Adding to the challenge is the fact that Adam Chapnick,
the actor who emits periodic squeaks and squawks as the
invisible Marvin, is a 23-year-old student in Playwrights
Horizons Theatre School. Although you can't see much through
the glass, Mr. Chapnick wears a gray wig and lady's white
pantyhose on his legs and arms to achieve that pale, aged
look. ("In rehearsal, the only notes I'd ever get were `too
pink, too pink,' " he explains.)
   Although he doesn't even get a curtain call, the unsung
Mr. Chapnick is hoping that "Marvin's Room," will lead to his
big break, too.
   "It's wonderful for the resume," he says. "In fact, in a
few years if anyone forgets what `Marvin's Room' was actually
about . . . it will look like I had a wonderful title role
and the lead."