PepsiCo's Net
   Increased by 2%
   In 4th Quarter
   ----
   By Michael J. McCarthy
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Nonetheless, the period represents the third quarter in a
row in which food-business troubles have derailed Pepsi's
previously predictable, double-digit profit gains. "There's
been a radical shift in momentum," said Marc Cohen, an
analyst with Sanford C. Bernstein.
   Wayne Calloway, Pepsi chairman and chief executive
officer, said that 1991 represented "one of the most
difficult consumer environments we've seen in a decade"
because of the recession and the increasing value orientation
of consumers.
   On the snack-food front, the Frito-Lay division has been
roiled in pricing wars, and had greater competition from such
rivals as Anheuser-Busch Cos. In restaurants, some of the
advantages Pepsi gained early in the year from price-cutting
seemed to erode, as competitors offered their own discounts.
   While noting that such problems aren't behind Pepsi,
analysts praised the recent restructuring moves, saying that
the company is better poised from a cost basis to compete
more profitably. In terms of per-share earnings in 1992, Mr.
Cohen said: "The consensus on Wall Street looks for a high
teens growth rate for Pepsi." Pepsi wouldn't comment on the
projections. "We are committed to delivering the kind of
accelerated growth that the world has come to expect from
us," said a Pepsi spokesman.
   Pepsi said it took a $34 million charge at Kentucky Fried
Chicken partly to eliminate about 250, or roughly 16%, of the
company's 1,500 management and support-staff positions. A
spokesman for the unit said that employees were incorrect
when they estimated that one-third to one-half of those jobs
would be cut.
   As the subsidiary continues to struggle in the U.S. with
an aged restaurant base, a dated image and a fried-chicken
menu increasingly out of sync with consumer tastes, the
restaurant chain saw same-store sales fall 7% in the quarter,
producing a "significant decline" in profits.
Internationally, however, Kentucky Fried had a double-digit
profit increase.
   Pepsi added that it took $23.6 million in charges for
programs aimed at boosting productivity in the United
Kingdom, where the snack business has been soft due to a
recession there. The company also took a $12 million charge
related to a small, unprofitable snack-food business
overseas, which it may sell or involve in a joint venture.
   Pepsi said it expects pretax savings of $40 million to $50
million annually when all restructuring moves are completed.
   Pepsi's international snack-food business was softer than
usual, with profits lower in the big markets in Britain and
Spain. Excluding the charges, profits in the overseas snacks
division rose 6% in the quarter.
   Troubles continued in the domestic snack-food operations.
Profit fell about 3%, as analysts had expected, as Frito-Lay
ran up promotional costs and as consumers gravitated to snack
products with lower profit margins. Volume growth, at 5% for
the quarter and 7% for the year, was strong. Some analysts
expect the leaner, meaner Frito-Lay to post an operating
profit increase of 10% in 1992.
   Pizza Hut had a strong earnings gain in the quarter,
benefiting from the expanding delivery business. Taco Bell's
earnings growth continued to slow since the stellar gains
earlier in the year, as McDonald's Corp. and a host of other
restaurant chains introduced bargain-priced menus and
individual food items. That blunted the edge that Taco Bell
had previously, analysts said, although they don't believe
anyone has dethroned Taco Bell as the king of cheap food.
   Soft drinks, in the U.S. and abroad, were the quarter's
upside surprise. While Pepsi's volume, as measured by case
sales, was flat, its profit rose in the "teens," excluding
unusual items, according to a Pepsi spokesman. The company
benefited from higher concentrate prices and lower ingredient
costs. Roy Burry, a Kidder Peabody analyst, said that Pepsi
was able to generate higher profit partly because more of its
volume was coming from supermarket sales, rather than from
less lucrative fountain-account outlets, such as restaurants.
   International soft drinks, helped by strong volume gains
and higher prices in Latin America, showed an almost
five-fold increase in fourth-quarter operating earnings,
compared with a weak year-earlier period.
   For all of 1991, Pepsi had net of $1.08 billion, or $1.35
a share, which was flat compared with 1990's net income.
Excluding unsual items, however, per-share net rose 9% to
$1.50 from $1.38.
   Sales rose 10% to $19.6 billion from $17.8 billion.