REVIEW  OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   Quayle vs. Jamail
MiniScribe is in bankruptcy, so much of the ruinous
judgment would be paid by its former accountants at Coopers 
Lybrand and former investment bankers at Hambrecht  Quist --
who point out they were also defrauded, for much more than
Mr. Jamail's bondholder clients. It's also an irony that it
was an internal investigation by MiniScribe that uncovered
the falsifying of records by some of its employees. So whom
is the legal system punishing for what by assessing punitive
damages? The jury, by the way, decided Mr. Jamail should get
some $8 million for his labors.
   Many lawyers are outraged by Jamail-style litigation, but
the American Bar Association as a trade group is too busy
circling the wagons to see the absurdities. Talbot
D'Alemberte, the group's president, called Mr. Quayle's
criticisms "stupid, silly, preposterous, gratuitously
insulting and offensive." (Gratuitously?) His counterproposal
is that the taxpayers provide "full and adequate funding" for
the Legal Services Corp., which subsidizes litigation by
making direct payments to . . . lawyers.
   The Access to Justice Act that Mr. Quayle proposed last
week includes a limited federal application of what he calls
the Fairness Rule, which is also called the English Rule or
the Everywhere-but-America Rule. This would require the
losing side to pay the winning side's legal expenses. This
should deter abusive lawyering. A contingency-fee lawyer
would have a harder time getting defendants to settle cases
for some amount less than their legal expenses to defend the
lawsuit. By the same token, defendants who know they are
liable could no longer simply pay lawyers to use delaying
tactics in the hopes of wearing down plaintiffs.
   The Quayle proposal would protect consumers in lawsuits
against corporations. There is a provision that limits the
amount of attorneys' fees that the losing side would have to
pay to the amount he spent on his own lawyers. Judges would
have broad discretion to award even less if the losing party
has limited means. People with good legal claims would have
better access to the courts because they'd know their legal
fees would be compensated.
   There is also a bill in Congress that would create new
national rules for product-liability litigation. This bill,
which the nation's Governors unanimously support despite
federalism concerns, would begin to push the standard of
liability back to where it was before the liability explosion
30 years ago. There would be a tighter definition of punitive
damages, and plaintiffs would no longer be able to go after
the deepest pockets regardless of fault.
   There is a problem with these reform proposals. As
President Bush noted in a recent speech, "There are 62
lawyers" in the Senate. The trial lawyers are also major
financial contributors to Members of Congress. So the chances
of new legislation are small, especially if lawyers prefer to
serve as targets for the Bush-Quayle campaign rather than
lead the reform themselves.