Inside Track:
   Medco Officials Take
   Profits From Big Gains
   ----
   By Alexandra Peers and Michael Siconolfi
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
Mail-order prescriptions is one of the fastest-growing
segments of the health-care industry, and Medco Containment
has the dominant market share. Medco bulls are betting on
what seem to be two surefire trends: an aging population with
burgeoning needs for prescription drugs; and corporations
that are seeking ways to slash employee medical costs.
   At Medco, the wave of insider selling was led by chairman
and well-known New Jersey racehorse breeder Martin J. Wygod.
He trimmed his holdings by 2,028,365 shares from Nov. 6 to
Dec. 31, according to SEC filings. The shares represented 39%
of his total holdings. All share totals and prices have been
adjusted for a 5-for-2 stock split Dec. 13.
   Mr. Wygod said in an interview that he hadn't sold any
shares for seven years and he "felt it was a good time to
sell off" a substantial portion of his Medco holdings. Part
of the proceeds of his sales went to pay taxes related to his
earlier exercise of stock options, he said.
   But, despite the sale, Mr. Wygod said that there is more
steam in Medco's stock because of anticipated strong sales
and earnings growth. He predicts fiscal 1992 sales of $1.7
billion, up from 1991's $1.3 billion.
   All told, seven executives or directors of Medco have sold
about 2.6 million shares since Nov. 6. Slightly more than
half of those shares were acquired through the exercise of
stock options immediately before the shares were sold. The
shares fetched an average price of $29.30, SEC filings show.
Medco went public in 1984 at a split-adjusted $2.24 a share.
The stock closed yesterday at $32.25, down 25 cents, in
over-the-counter trading.
   At Merrill Lynch  Co., which is recommending buying the
stock, analyst Richard Vietor said Medco shares have further
to climb. "Cost-containment is a giant theme that's barely
begun in the drug industry," he said, and while Medco may
have rivals, "most of them are one-fourth of the size."
   Medco bears point out that at yesterday's price, the stock
is selling at 54 times expected fiscal 1992 earnings of about
60 cents a share. That means the stock already has a lot of
good news built into it. Moreover, Medco is facing opposition
from some powerful forces -- state pharmacy boards and major
drug companies.
   Last month, Standard  Poor's Corp. rated Medco's
convertible subordinated debentures at a barely
investment-grade triple-B-plus, saying "the potential for
increased competition" and restrictive regulation "will
likely preclude any upgrades over the intermediate term." SP
lauded Medco's "strong balance sheet," but noted "now that
the company has achieved critical mass, growth has slowed."
   Retail pharmacists and state pharmacy boards have claimed
that Medco's mail-order drug sales pose potential dangers for
consumers. Some major drug companies are unhappy with a Medco
program aimed at getting physicians to prescribe lowercost
drugs.
   While Medco has met with stiff opposition from state
pharmacy boards, who have sometimes taken Medco to court,
"there's nothing they can do," Mr. Wygod said. The courts
have held "it's a violation of interstate commerce to prevent
us from shipping" medication across state lines, he said.
   Mr. Wygod added that more than $10 million of the proceeds
from the insider stock sales went to the Medco Foundation and
Rose Foundation, two Montvale, N.J., organizations that were
set up by the company last year to fund prescription drug aid
to the poor or uninsured.
   ---
   BEAR MARKET? Bear Stearns Cos. just posted record
quarterly profit, but insiders have been selling stock at a
steady clip.
   Bear Stearns insiders have sold a total of more than about
1.2 million shares during the past month valued at about $25
million, SEC filings show.
   The big insider sales are giving pause to even bullish
brokerage-firm analysts. James P. Hanbury, an analyst at
Wertheim Schroder  Co., recently raised his profit estimates
for Bear Stearns's fiscal 1992 to $2.25 a share from $1.85.
   But "these are smart traders, and you don't really want to
be on the other side of them," Mr. Hanbury said, adding:
"They're not all building houses."
   Two big sellers at the investment bank were William J.
Michaelcheck and Vincent J. Mattone, both executive vice
presidents and directors; each sold 400,000 shares.
   Earlier this month, Alan C. Greenberg, Bear Stearns
chairman and chief executive officer, sold 467,500 shares.
President James E. Cayne sold 250,000 shares -- his first
sale of the firm's stock since July 1987, when the closely
held Bear Stearns partnership sold 3.7 million shares to the
public.
   Senior managing directors Alvin Einbender, Matthew
Mancuso, Michael Minikes and Elliot Wolk sold 100,000,
50,000, 25,000 and 10,000 shares, respectively.
   William Montgoris, Bear Stearns's chief financial officer,
said the sales were for several reasons: These included
raising cash for tax payments; charitable contributions; and
diversification. Some Bear Stearns insiders also sold shares
to cash in stock obtained as part of their compensation
package through the firm's capital accumulation plan, Mr.
Montgoris said.
   In an interview, Mr. Cayne said the shares he sold
represented less than 10% of the Bear Stearns shares he owns
and were the equivalent to the number of shares he bought
recently through the firm's capital accumulation plan. He
said he sold shares for tax and estate planning purposes,
among other reasons.
   "I've never felt better about Bear Stearns, about our
profits, about our potential; our morale is at an absolute
all-time high," Mr. Cayne said. "The place is rolling."
   Messrs. Greenberg, Mattone, Michaelcheck, Mancuso,
Minikes, Wolk and Einbender all declined to comment.
   Most of the insider sales took place in early to
mid-January. On Jan. 16, Bear Stearns reported net income of
$77.4 million for the second quarter ended Dec. 31, nearly
five times the year-earlier net of $16.9 million. At the
time, Mr. Greenberg said of Wall Street's sizzling business:
"It's a day-to-day situation. Right now, things are good in
our industry, and I hope they stay that way."
   Bear Stearns stock soared 84% in 1991, closing at $17 on
the New York Stock Exchange. Yesterday, Bear Stearns fell
37.5 cents to $19. The insiders sold their shares at $16.50
to $19.125 apiece.
   Despite the sales, Bear Stearns still has one of the
largest percentages of insider ownership among publicly
traded Wall Street firms. Employee ownership of Bear
Stearns's stock stands at more than 35%, with about 160
senior managing directors owning a total of 25% to 30% of the
firm.