Law -- Legal Beat:
   Lilly Ordered
   To Turn Over
   Prozac Studies
   ----
   By Jonathan M. Moses
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The decision Tuesday by District Court Judge John M.
Marshall of Dallas covers an estimated half-million pages of
human and animal studies, which were provided to the Food and
Drug Administration during the drug approval process for
Prozac.
   The plaintiff's attorneys say that Lilly has never before
turned over such complete information in the approximately
100 state and federal suits filed against the Indianapolis
drug maker. Plaintiffs claim that Prozac causes suicidal or
violent behavior. Lilly is not believed to have lost or paid
any settlement in a Prozac case.
   John McGoldrick, Lilly's lawyer at the Newark, N.J., law
firm McCarter  English, said that his client has already
made all the documents available to the plaintiff and that
the only remaining issue at stake is whether the company must
disclose the names of physicians involved in some of the
studies. The judge's order requires Lilly to make those names
available.
   Paul L. Smith, the plaintiff's Dallas lawyer who has
reviewed a portion of the documents, said much more was
missing, including an 84-page description of studies
comparing the effects of Prozac with the effects of placebos.
But according to both the affidavits of Mr. Smith and his
legal assistant, the bulk of materials omitted were names of
investigators and physicians.
   Judge Marshall, of Texas's 14th Judicial District, issued
his order in a suit initially filed by Mr. Smith on behalf of
the estate of Michael H. Biffle, a 45-year-old man who
allegedly committed suicide while under the influence of
Prozac. Mr. Biffle, who allegedly shot himself less than a
week after being prescribed Prozac, is survived by his widow
and two children.
   The plaintiff's lawyers believe internal documents will
help them prove that Prozac causes violent behavior. If the
complete documents are made available to Mr. Smith and his
co-counsel, the New York products liability law firm of
Leonard Finz, the information could eventually be used in the
law firm's other suits. Mr. Finz's firm claims to represent
nearly 100 Prozac plaintiffs and to have an additional 1,000
complaints under review.
   Initially, the documents would be made available only to
the lawyers and expert witnesses involved in the Biffle case.
But they eventually could be made public because such
documents are more readily made available to the public in
Texas than in other states.
   Judge Marshall's order is a defeat for Lilly's aggressive
legal strategy to protect Prozac from the wave of product
liability litigation. Coordinated nationally by Mr.
McGoldrick and Joel Freeman of the Atlanta law firm Freeman 
Hawkins, the strategy has included indemnifying doctors who
prescribe the drug and offering to help prosecutors facing
the so-called Prozac Defense. The defense is used in cases
where defendants claim they were under the influence of the
drug when they committed crimes.
   "It's very significant that someone has finally placed a
crack in {Lilly's} armor," said Kentucky attorney Kelley
Thompson Jr., who has gone up against Lilly in a separate
Prozac case. He called the company's legal strategy "the most
aggressive defense" he has ever encountered.
   Lilly's posture is based on the prior experience of drug
companies in litigation. Drug companies have said that
products cases, and the resulting negative publicity, have
forced them to take perfectly good drugs off the market.
   The plaintiff's lawyers said Lilly's refusal to turn over
complete documents supports their contention that the company
has something to hide about the drug's development. But a
special panel appointed by the FDA recently reviewed all the
material the plaintiff's lawyers are seeking and gave Prozac
a clean bill of health.
   Judge Marshall initially ordered that the studies be
turned over in September. Mr. Smith traveled in December to
Indianapolis to review the material covered by the order, but
was provided with what he said was heavily edited material.
After reviewing 3,000 pages of the documents, Mr. Smith said,
he decided his visit was futile and left without the papers.
He then asked the judge for sanctions against Lilly.
   In his order this week, Judge Marshall gave Lilly until
Jan. 24 to turn over the documents, and ordered the company
to pay $2,500 in attorney's fees to Mr. Smith, to provide him
and a legal assistant round-trip coach airplane tickets to
Indianapolis, and to pay him $100 a day while he's in
Indianapolis reviewing the documents plus the cost of copying
the papers. Gerrold S. Parker, an associate in Mr. Finz's
firm, estimated that the sanctions will total more than
$50,000.
   According to a drug analyst, Lilly had world-wide Prozac
sales of $900 million in 1991, out of total sales of $5.8
billion. The analyst estimated that the company's sales of
Prozac would increase to $1.1 billion in 1992.
   ---
   THOROUGH INQUIRY helps employer beat sexual-harassment
suit.
   Federal District Judge Alfred M. Wolin found that
Hillside, N.J., wasn't responsible for a police sergeant's
alleged sexual harassment of a civilian dispatcher, thanks in
large part to an independent investigator hired by the town
to look into the charges. The department also began its own
study the day the charges were reported.
   Both investigations found no support for the dispatcher's
claims. In dismissing the claims, the judge found that the
results of the "exhaustive investigations," as well as the
sergeant's denial of the allegations, enabled the town to
avoid liability.
   Judge Wolin, however, refused to say that hiring an
independent fact-finder, and following that person's
recommendations, is always enough to get an employer off the
hook. An investigation's intensity is important, too, the
ruling suggested.
   An attorney for the town, Thomas E. Moseley of the Newark
law firm DeMaria, Ellis, Hunt, Salsberg  Friedman, said the
decision should comfort employers. In many cases where an
employer is cleared by an investigation, the employer "can be
spared the effort of having to litigate these allegations in
federal court," he said.
   Barbara Flessas, the lawyer for the dispatcher, who is on
leave from the Hillside police department, couldn't be
reached for a comment.
   The ruling is the first by a court in the federal circuit
that includes Delaware, New Jersey, and Pennsylvania to deal
with the kinds of actions an employer should take to avoid
liability when a harassment charge is investigated and found
to be groundless.
   In addition to hiring the investigator, Hillside also told
the sergeant to stay away from the dispatcher; the sergeant
transferred to another department a month later. Hillside
also wrote a sexual-harassment policy nine months after the
claim was filed.
   (Foster vs. Township of Hillside, et al., U.S. District
Court, District of New Jersey, 90-4030)
   ---
   A CHICAGO LAW FIRM opened an office in Prague,
Czechoslovakia.
   Altheimer  Gray's branch is believed to be one of fewer
than 10 U.S. law offices in Prague. All three lawyers in the
office are Czech and formerly practiced with the Prague law
firm Koucky  Partners.
   The three lawyers eventually will be joined in the office
by Jeffrey N. Smith, an Altheimer  Gray mergers and
acquisitions partner. Mr. Smith is serving as a full-time
consultant to officials of Czechoslovakia's Ministry of
Privatization, according to partner Louis B. Goldman.
   Altheimer  Gray, which has about 175 lawyers, also has a
10-lawyer office in Warsaw. The firm launched that office in
September 1990.