Polaroid Profit
   Increased by 6%
   In 4th Quarter
   ----
   By Joseph Pereira
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The company said its results were helped by
across-the-board increases in instant cameras and film,
videotape and conventional film sales during the quarter.
   In late New York Stock Exchange trading yesterday,
Polaroid shares jumped $2.125 to $27.
   Analysts said they were pleasantly surprised. Wall Street
estimates of Polaroid's earnings had ranged between 65 cents
a share and $1 a share. But some analysts questioned whether
the earnings growth will continue in 1992 and didn't raise
their earnings projections for this year.
   "I think it's nice they had a good quarter, and
congratulations," said Alex Henderson, an analyst with
Prudential Securities. "But I seriously doubt if the momentum
is sustainable."
   In 1992, the company faces "huge startup costs" related to
introductions of Helios, its medical imaging system, and
Joshua, a new compact instant camera, added Eugene Glazer,
analyst for Dean Witter Reynolds Inc.
   Moreover, "the outlook on the economy, which (led to
stagnation in) Polaroid's sales in 1991, remains uncertain,"
said Mr. Henderson. "There are just too many uncertainties at
play for me to change my 1992 projections of $2.40 a share."
   Retailers had ordered conservatively in the first part of
the year, which caused them to increase purchases of Polaroid
film in the fourth quarter, when the company rolled out its
Hybrid 4 high-resolution instant film, analysts said.
   "I guess there was a certain amount of pent-up demand for
the film, besides the fact that retailers went into the
fourth quarter with very lean inventories," said Dean
Witter's Mr. Glazer.
   Higher margins on film appeared to have offset tighter
profit margins on cameras, particularly in light of
Polaroid's yearlong discount campaign to get customers to buy
more cameras and consequently more film.
   The company said that operating profit for the quarter was
$96.2 million, compared with $92.5 million for the
year-earlier quarter.
   September, Polaroid said it retired preferred stock held
by Corporate Partner Group in exchange for $280 million in
cash and $140 million in convertible debentures. That helped
boost earnings per share in the quarter, the company said.
   Polaroid's net for the full year jumped substantially
because of a $925 million pretax gain from a
patent-infringement settlement paid by Eastman Kodak Co. For
the full year, Polaroid reported net of $683.7 million, or
$12.54 a share, compared with net income of $151 million, or
$2.20 a share in 1990. Sales rose 5% to $2.07 billion from
$1.97 billion.