Medicine:
   FDA Is Urging
   Pfizer to Warn
   Of Valve Risk
   ----
   By Bruce Ingersoll
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
About 23,000 people in the U.S. and Canada have 60-degree
Shiley valves, according to the FDA. Some 82,000 of the
60-degree valves were sold world-wide from 1978 until 1986,
when the company pulled the defective devices off the market.
At last count, the agency had received 350 reports of
fractures world-wide. Valve fractures often are fatal.
   The FDA was reacting in part to pressure from Public
Citizen's Health Research Group, which implored FDA
Commissioner David Kessler two weeks ago to order a special
patient alert. Sidney Wolfe, director of the
consumer-advocacy group, argued that Pfizer's patient
information program is inadequate "because it rules out
elective reoperation to remove" large 60-degree valves.
   New York-based Pfizer began the information program in
1990 after the risks of fracture became apparent. But
replacement of intact valves wasn't recommended at that time,
because the risk of surgical complications was thought to
outweigh the risk of fracture.
   In a recent letter to Dr. Kessler, Dr. Wolfe argued that
the new data -- published in the Feb. 1 issue of the British
medical journal Lancet -- "could arguably tilt the balance in
favor of valve replacement" for certain patients.
   The commissioner concurred, saying: "When a critical
device such as a heart valve is found to have a problem that
could result in death or serious injury, FDA has an
obligation to see that doctors and patients are notified, so
that they can consider the new information in deciding on a
course of action."
   The risk of fracture depends on the age of the patient,
the size of the valve and the valve's position, according to
the FDA. The risk is highest -- as much as 0.8% per year --
for patients under age 50 who have large 60-degree valves
implanted as a substitute for their mitral valves.
   In a statement, Pfizer's Shiley Heart Valve Research
Center said of the Lancet article: "It is not appropriate to
single out one article as definitive when other equally
valuable studies have found somewhat different results with
regard to the implications of patient age and valve
position."
   The FDA said the first priority of Pfizer's Shiley Inc.
unit should be to send letters to this group of high-risk
patients. Letters also should be sent to all other patients
with 60-degree valves, reassuring them that the new research
findings don't apply to them.
   The agency also told Shiley to enclose a copy of the
research paper by Dutch epidemiologist Yolanda van der Graaf
and colleagues in letters to cardiac specialists. In
addition, the company is to offer them guidance on how the
new risk data should be used in discussing with their
patients the merits of "prophylactic replacement."
   The new data indicate that at least 1,000 fractures may
have already occurred among patients with the large 60-degree
mitral valve, resulting in 667 deaths, rather than the 222
deaths reported to the FDA, said Dr. Wolfe.
   The fractures have been found to develop in struts welded
on the inside of the valves, which control movement of blood
through the heart. Two-thirds of the fractures result in
death.
   The Dutch study also found that another Pfizer valve, the
large 70-degree mitral valve, breaks in an estimated 17.4% of
patients. The 70-degree valve wasn't found safe enough for
marketing in the U.S., but was exported to many European
countries and Canada.