Germany's Treuhand -- A Too Visible Hand
   ----
   By Amity Shlaes
Mrs. Breuel says what she is doing is making "a bridge"
from socialism for East Germans. But that bridge may well
lead to years on the dole. The Kohl government, worried for
its future, is using the Treuhand and vehicles like it to
widen its manangement of the economy.
   The way the Treuhand (pronounced "TROY-hont") works also
has serious consequences for the international economy.
Recent growth has led some observers to argue that Germany is
set for a surge on the order of its postwar Economic Miracle,
which converted a ruin of a country into an economic
powerhouse. But others argue that the social welfare
orientation of the Treuhand and other agencies is likely to
bring about strong recession. In 1991 and 1992, the Kohl
government is spending $200 billion on welfare, subsidies,
grants, loans and infrastructure in Eastern Germany. A
burdened German economy could in turn drag down the rest of
Europe.
   "What the Treuhand is doing now is disguised industrial
policy" says Thomas Mayer, a German who watches the German
economy from London for Goldman Sachs. "Despite what the
history of East Germany taught the world about central
planning, the German government is now slowly abandoning the
free market and adopting an interventionist approach."
   Calling on Mrs. Breuel at the Treuhand feels like calling
on an outpost of capitalism in a new frontier. Taxi upon taxi
pushes its way through the construction site that is now
central Berlin to drop off visitors at the institution's
front gate. Bespectacled alumni of international law firms
and investment-house training programs man phones and fax
machines. Unlike most government office heads in Germany, who
must work with a competent but legalistic staff of civil
servants, Mrs. Breuel has a free hand in picking her team.
And unlike most bureaucracies, the Treuhand faces the healthy
challenge of certain death. Mrs. Breuel herself publicly
promises that her offices will close within four years. Says
one employee: "The Treuhand isn't Germany. It is a foreign
country."
   Sit down with one of Mrs. Breuel's officers, though, and a
different story emerges. Christian Mittweg faces the job of
breaking up a factory that makes heavy equipment for the
steel industry. The factory has a tremendous asset -- acres
of prime real estate right by an international airport,
Berlin's Schoenefeld.
   The logical step would be for Mr. Mittweg to sell the land
to the highest bidder. But Treuhand policy requires him to
concentrate first on restructuring the concern. This is
despite the overcapacity of the European steel industry --
and despite the loss of 60%-70% of the factory's business
with the decline its old East Bloc customers. The goal here:
Preserve some 2,000 jobs.
   Thus a potentially valuable project like this one becomes
a social welfare caseone of the beneficiaries of nearly $20
billion a year the federal government is spending to keep
Treuhand charges alive. Says Mr. Mittweg: "In Central Europe,
every employer is a social worker." For those employees who
are laid off, Germany's "Sozialamt," its welfare agency,
occasionally sets up temporary offices in the basements of
the firms doing the layoffs.
   That philosophy applies to most of the 5,000 or so
concerns the Treuhand must yet unload. A March amendment to
German property law made it simpler to clear title in the
murky world of East German property. But to succeed in a
purchase, an outside bidder must present a proposal that the
Treuhand deems competitive. "Competitive" often means that it
will guarantee jobs and commit not to resell the land for up
to 10 years. The Treuhand also looks for capital commitments,
and, most dauntingly, for buyers who will make a similar
product to that manufactured at the purchase site in the
years of East Germany's fantasy economy.
   These criteria can all be waived. But as points of
departure, they reflect the Treuhand's philosophy. Says
Ulrike Gruenrock, an assistant vice president at the agency:
"price is not the main thing." The attitude is one that
radically diminishes the Treuhand's income. In today's
service-oriented economy, an unreconstructed and polluted
rust-belt like Eastern Germany has only one asset beyond its
workforce -- real estate.
   The Treuhand also demonstrates a rather old-fashioned
(some might call it Marxist) proclivity to assign high value
to factories and machinery. The result sometimes produces
"prices" that do not jibe with reality. In one famous slip,
the agency unloaded a Berlin electromechanical supplier,
Geraetewerk Teltow, for the token fee of one mark. Berlin
today is a boomtown with property prices comparable to those
in Manhattan. But the agency focused so much on the social
costs the new buyers would have to carry that it forgot to
calculate in the value of the Berlin real estate. Mrs. Breuel
for her part reminds a visitor that her job is making "a
transition to a social market economy."
   That assessment is one that is shared by a German
population deeply concerned with preserving Germany's social
welfare net. When the Treuhand negotiated the sale of one of
the biggest concerns in its basket, the Hennigsdorf steel
mill, to the Italian Riva Group, the local press reacted with
protectionist outcries. Union-led workers occupied the plant,
claiming that a German bidder would keep more jobs. But the
Treuhand notes that Riva was the only one willing to make a
commitment on paper to preserving jobs.
   Underlying both the protest and the Treuhand's defense is
a deep-seated hostility to the very instinct that many argue
would save Eastern Germany: the profit motive. Germany's
constitution, the Grundgesetz, says "property obligates" --
that is, it is a landlord or owner's job to take care of
tenants and employees. But, observers point out, things were
different in postwar Germany. Then the federal government
focused on the economy first, strengthening its
social-welfare net only after some measure of prosperity had
arrived. "The difference between the late 1940s and the early
1990s is that the German Bundestag then recognized the
primacy of free enterprise," says Dennis Bark, co-author of a
history of postwar Germany. "In the early 1990s, therefore,
the Treuhand is being asked to put the cart at the starting
gate with the horse."
   For some investors, including the 13 American companies
that have bought through the Treuhand, this attitude is not a
disadvantage. Daniel Industries, a Houston-based supplier of
fluid measurement products, spent $4.4 million in December to
purchase a company in suburban Berlin that makes similar
devices. Its goal: serving "Western and East European
markets." For the Germans, the change was welcome -- their
old Eastern European customers had so little cash "that they
arrived here and tried to buy our goods with baskets of
tomatoes," says Karl Goetze, director of the firm. Mrs.
Breuel for her part argues opportunity is ripe for foreign
investment. "Where else in the European market is there a
chance to participate with up to 50% subsidy?" she asks.
   Companies like Daniel will benefit from Germany's
extensive outlays on infrastructure. Deutsche Bank figures
show public job programs, known as "employment companies" are
retraining some 200,000 East Germans. That costs a lot --
beneficiaries are paid on Germany's high union scale. It also
disguises German unemployment figures. But it does give
Eastern Germany's workforce a boost over Polish or Czech
competitors.
   Much of the current predicament, too, is not the
Treuhand's fault. Back when the Treuhand got started in 1990,
planners thought Eastern Europe would be a natural market for
goods from the new Eastern Germany. For now, that source has
dried up, a victim of political chaos. Within Germany, much
of the blame can be assigned to the chancellor, Helmut Kohl.
During his campaign in 1990, he pushed up the price of labor
when he overrode the Bundesbank and gave East Germans a 1-1
exchange rate for their East German marks. Poor results in
state elections in the West early last year have driven him
to widen public spending for his Eastern constituents. So has
fear of social unrest -- and fear of the kind of left-wing
terrorism that took the life of Mrs. Breuel's predecessor at
the Treuhand, Detlev Rohwedder. The Kohl government has
chosen to spend its way to safety. "Germany grows together.
Your pension grows with it," read billboard advertisements
for Mr. Kohl's party in the East.
   The result of heavy government involvement, says Thomas
Mayer of Goldman Sachs, is to prolong the process of
integration. "Without government doing the privatization, the
crash would have come earlier and harder. But the upswing
would have come faster, too." Many contracts the Treuhand is
signing include employment guarantees that run out several
years from now -- at which time unprofitable owners are
likely to try to unload.
   Asked about such consequences, the head of the Treuhand's
New York office, Christoph Urban, dismisses
free-market-oriented criticism as "purist." After all, says
Mr. Urban, the Treuhand situation "is no different from the
challenge America faces in the RTC." Mrs. Breuel, for her
part, says she will barrel through. Offered analogies --
Keynes? Milton Friedman? -- she argues that she is like
neither. Says Birgit Breul: "I am not interested in theory."
   ---
   Miss Shlaes is deputy features editor of The Wall Street
Journal's editorial page.