Hints of Spring:
   Signs of a Recovery
   Are Starting to Appear
   In the U.S. Economy
   ---
   Housing Sales Are Climbing
   In Many Areas, Bolstering
   Furniture and Appliances
   ---
   But the '80s Aren't Returning
   ----
   By Clare Ansberry and Jim Carlton
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
These are only straws in the wind, of course, and the
official statistics still radiate gloom. But although
spending remains tortoise-like compared with the spendthrift
1980s, anecdotal evidence suggests that it has picked up from
a few months ago.
   What gives? Interest rates, for one thing. Lower mortgage
rates are helping lift home sales, traditionally the first
major sector of the economy to rebound from a recession.
That, in turn, is beginning to fuel sales of furniture and
vacuum cleaners, and typically numbers on consumer-durable
goods sales pick up three or four months after housing
strengthens. And in the recent "Buy American" campaign, "buy"
has become the operative word, compared with "save" last
year. Spending has become a civic duty.
   Patrick Zarrick, of St. Louis, ditched his 1989 foreign
car last week and, prodded by guilt and Ford's 2.9%
financing, bought a 1992 Ford Escort. "I felt guilty enough
to try my first American car," he says.
   Others are buying simply because they are tired of
sacrificing. Pat Groseck, of Columbus, Ohio, broke down, got
rid of her old black and white television set and bought a
color TV with remote controls. "I've been thinking about that
TV for a year and finally said, `Hey, I deserve some reward
for my long hours,'" she says.
   It isn't that people feel ebullient. High debt, high
joblessness and low consumer confidence are keeping the
economy from staging a full-blown recovery. And given
regional strengths and weaknesses, a rebound might be as
spotty as the measles. Moreover, the Commerce Department
reported Friday that its index of leading indicators, which
tend to foreshadow changes in the economy, fell in December
for the second month in a row. Even optimistic economists
don't expect growth to exceed 3% this year, and some worry
that a recent surge in long-term interest rates might shoot
down a fledgling recovery.
   "We're not picking up encouraging noises," says Fabian
Linden, an economist at the Conference Board, a
business-research organization in New York. Auto makers are
cutting first-quarter production after early-January sales
fell to their lowest level since 1987.
   Meanwhile, Rhonda Mangieri, of Pittsburgh, is still buying
off-brand peanut butter, and Anthony Tanner, a Rochester,
N.Y., resident paying off $27,000 in college loans, doesn't
see a VCR or CD player in his near-term future.
   Recent increases in housing sales -- such as a 200% surge
in January at Hovnanian Enterprises Inc., a Red Bank, N.J.,
builder of entry-level homes -- may not last, either. The two
clouds over the housing market are "employment and the great
downsizing of corporate America," says Daryl Jesperson,
senior vice president of Re/Max International Inc. of Denver,
the nation's No. 2 residential brokerage firm.
   Nevertheless, "anecdotal evidence may be telling us
something which the numbers have yet to confirm," says Norman
Robertson, chief economist at Mellon Bank in Pittsburgh.
"Certainly after three consecutive quarters of growth -- not
really strong growth but positive movement -- we're
technically in a recovery phase."
   Ken Mayland, the chief economist at Society Corp. in
Cleveland, says one-third of the 622 Midwestern business
owners participating in a recent survey expect business to
improve in the next four months. Some reasons for optimism:
The stock market hit record highs last week, the economy has
grown in the past three quarters and, although sales of new
homes fell in December, sales of existing homes have picked
up.
   Mr. Mayland adds that he isn't concerned about the
December drop in the leading indicators, which, he notes,
have "waffled" in recent months. He believes "a recovery is
coming in the spring."
   Moreover, the disappointing news about new-home sales and
the leading indicators doesn't take into account more-hopeful
trends last month. The housing markets perked up considerably
in January, a typically sluggish month for sales, and show
signs of continuing a healthy momentum into the peak spring
buying season.
   Builders report sales and traffic running well ahead of a
year ago in nearly all parts of the country, and Realtors
nationwide are posting sales gains. Housing analysts caution,
however, that January's gains are being compared with the
weak figures for January 1991, when the markets were
stagnated by fears over the Gulf War. The analysts do,
however, see the resurgence as evidence that housing has
begun a gradual recovery.
   "I don't expect to see any explosion in activity," said
David Seiders, chief economist at the National Association of
Home Builders. "There are still some deep problems in the
economy. We need job growth to keep this thing sustained."
   A stronger housing market is already apparent to Ann
Redwanowski, who manages the Prudential Preferred Properties
real-estate office near Philadelphia. "For us, spring started
Jan. 2," she says, referring to the traditionally strong
house-selling season. Homes that sat on the market more than
a year are being sold at the asking price, sometimes with two
offers coming in at once from buyers eager to lock in low
mortgage rates.
   To keep the momentum going, Ms. Redwanowski plans to hold
a tax seminar to educate prospects about such things as
President Bush's proposed $5,000 tax credit for first-time
home buyers who act by year end. To keep herself personally
psyched up, she doesn't play the radio in her car and listens
to relaxing tapes instead. "I actually feel wonderful," she
says.
   In Los Angeles, Fred Sands Realtors reports multiple
offers on resale homes for the first time in years. "It's
wonderful. It's Christmas in January," says Dave Osman, a
Fred Sands vice president and sales manager. And Kaufman 
Broad Home Corp. says sales have been strong for weeks.
"Right after the holidays, it just broke loose," says W. Webb
Parker, director of sales and marketing for Kaufman  Broad's
hot-selling Antelope Valley division in the desert outside
Los Angeles. He says Kaufman  Broad sold 22 homes the week
before last and 24 the week prior in its five Antelope Valley
subdivisions that are priced mostly for first-time buyers.
That was about three times the October and November pace.
   Indeed, once-tentative first-time home buyers are jumping
at what they see as their last chance to snag low interest
rates and government incentives. Alan James and his fiancee,
Lisa Cheek, will pay $575 a month for a two-bedroom home in
Kingston, N.Y., barely more than the $530 a month they were
paying for rent. "We felt this would be the best opportunity
for probably another three decades," he says.
   Lower mortgage rates also enabled the Egans to buy a more
expensive home for their planned move from the Pittsburgh
area to a Philadelphia suburb. "We bought more house than we
ever thought we could afford," Mrs. Egan says.
   Mark Zandi, chief economist for Regional Financial
Associates, a consulting firm based in West Chester, Pa.,
says home sales should continue strong into the summer. But
he adds that they could "fizzle" by fall if job growth
remains stagnant and unemployment, now hovering around 7%,
doesn't ease back down.
   Rising home sales are beginning to bolster other
businesses, albeit in slow motion. M. Farooq Kathwari,
chairman of Ethan Allen Inc., a 300-store furniture retailer,
says sales in the past three weeks rose about 15% from the
year-earlier period. John Larish, of Rochester, N.Y., has
just bought new sofas and chairs, a washing machine, a dryer
and a refrigerator for his new townhouse, now that he is
spending $500 less a month on his mortgage than for his old
five-bedroom house.
   With interest rates down, current homeowners are also
itching to save money, prompting a rash of refinancing and a
feeling of relative plenty. The Binders of Chagrin Falls,
Ohio, have begun going out for pizza again and may join a
health club. They also plan to buy a car, thanks to the
additional $10,000 they took out on their refinanced
mortgage. "It may be bad to finance a car over 30 years, but
it was the only way we could do it," Mrs. Binder says. "At
least we can deduct the interest."
   The stock-market rally also is encouraging buying. Jane
Cookson, a financial consultant in Pittsburgh, increased her
assets 30% over the past year. "I feel good, and I'm going to
go out and spend some of it," she says. She plans to spend
$20,000 to $25,000 to install a sauna and game room in the
basement and to fix up an office and woodshed. She's also
adding another employee to her seven-person office.
   No one is turning the clock back to the freewheeling
1980s, and spending remains cautious. Splurging today
consists of people spending an average 10% more for takeout
dinners of pot roast and mashed potatoes from Rosie's Kitchen
in Wilmette, Ill. And people are insisting on bargains. The
Lazarus Department Store in downtown Dayton attracted so many
buyers at its going-out-of-business sale that it closed its
doors 10 days earlier than planned.
   What's selling: practical items. Royal Appliance
Manufacturing Co., of Cleveland, reports swift January sales
of vacuum cleaners, including a $300 deluxe model. Home
computers may pick up, too. When Jenny Fischback bought a
computer last year, she thought that maybe she was the only
one feeling that the economy wasn't so bad. But recently, two
friends also bought computers.
   While people remain practical at home, they are also
splurging on getaways. "If people were so worried, they
wouldn't be jetting off to Europe," says Micki McDonough,
co-owner of Travelwell Inc. in Pittsburgh, which has booked a
record number of winter trips there. Air fares are cheap,
with $358 round-trip tickets to more than half a dozen
European cities. And while weekend trips to Toronto to see
"The Phantom of the Opera" are hot, too, so are pricier
destinations such as Disney World. "We can't get anyone into
Orlando or the Caribbean in March," she says.
   America West Airlines, which began serving Columbus, Ohio,
on Dec. 15, is doubling its flights there this month, is
adding more in March and has committed to eight gates at the
city's new airport. "I don't want to paint a rosy, rosy
picture, but we're beginning to feel different," says Daphne
Dicino of America West, which is operating under Chapter 11
protection from creditors. "We're seeing a slow comeback of
business travel, and we're pleasantly surprised."
   It will take a while before companies begin reaping the
benefits of consumer spending and start investing in new
plant and equipment. But some are already easing their
financial problems by refinancing high-interest debt.
   At Diebold Inc. in Canton, Ohio, domestic sales of
electronic security systems and vaults picked up in December
after being flat for a year. And in Cleveland, Frank Pacetta,
a Xerox district manager, says December was his best month of
a very good year. His office expected to sell only eight
$200,000 machines but instead sold 26. "We've been able to
cut some very big deals," he adds. "If people were scared, we
wouldn't be selling to them."
   In Columbus, cash-strapped companies that quit paying dues
to the Chamber of Commerce in 1991 have resumed membership
this year. "We lost about 400 members last year," says Pat
Groseck, who handles marketing for the chamber. "Now people
are coming back."