LEISURE  ARTS -- Bookshelf:
   The Making of Congressional Spendthrifts
   ----
   By John H. Fund
This cynical view is accurate to some extent, but
political scientist James L. Payne believes it doesn't
reflect how government really works. In his provocative book
"The Culture of Spending: Why Congress Lives Beyond Our
Means" (Institute for Contemporary Studies, San Francisco,
225 pages, $24.95) he lays out an alternative theory of
spend-happy politicians. He points out that if members of
Congress were granted lifetime tenure (something some would
say they almost have already), no one believes they would
spend less of other people's money. The solution to
Washington's spending binges must be found in the culture of
the capital itself.
   Washington is a city of relationships. Members of Congress
don't vote for abstract programs. They vote for budget items
that have been pressed upon them by lobbyists, friends,
colleagues, experts and the media. Because these pressures
are almost always in favor of spending, finding a majority is
rarely difficult.
   Mr. Payne spent several months testing his "persuasion
hypothesis" in Washington. He asked to testify at
congressional hearings against such programs as food stamps
and the National Science Foundation. To his pleasant
surprise, his testimony was welcomed, partly because it was
so unusual. Congressional hearings are dominated by three
groups: government employees, people from private
organizations that receive government grants, and consultants
paid by the government to monitor programs. All invariably
support more spending on their programs. If there are
problems there are calls for "reforms," but the premises
behind the programs are never questioned. Mr. Payne asked a
key staffer on the House Appropriations Committee what the
ratio was between people testifying to spend less on programs
and people who wanted funds protected or increased. "A
thousand to one," the staffer replied. The sole exception is
military spending, which is seen as distasteful and
unappealing by many people -- unless, of course, a local
military base is being closed.
   Mr. Payne believes this pro-spending tilt eventually has
an effect on members, as demonstrated in studies by former
OMB Director Jim Miller showing that the longer a member
serves in office the greater is his or her propensity to
spend.
   "What happens in Congress on spending resembles this sort
of brainwashing," claims Mr. Payne, recalling how in the
Korean War, incessant one-sided propaganda persuaded American
POW's to believe the most outlandish things. Members come to
love Washington, which is why so few of them return home
after they leave office: "Brainwashing produces genuine
attitude changes; the effect persists even after the
prisoners are released from captivity." Some do come to
realize just how isolated from reality Washington's culture
has become. Former Senate Majority Leader Howard Baker
lamented just before leaving office that "I have been a
full-time federal employee with no business but government
and no real home but Washington."
   Such observations lead Mr. Payne to make several
suggestions on how to limit the effect of Washington's
brainwashing machine. First on the list is term limits, which
he believes would inject fresh thinking into the policy
debate. He further advocates limiting the service of senior
federal bureaucrats to no more than eight years. He also
would require that the costs of the federal tax system be
included in any cost-benefit analysis of a federal program.
His most radical idea is to require that the government
consider what benefits would accrue if the money it was
planning to spend were left in private hands.
   Mr. Payne dismisses most previous efforts by Congress to
curb its own spending habits. He notes that laws requiring a
balanced budget and automatic spending cuts have been
routinely ignored or circumvented. One senator privately
likened such desperate ploys to scrawling "Stop me before I
spend again]" on the wall of the Capitol.
   Mr. Payne's book demonstrates that the Washington spending
machine can only be slowed if the American people develop an
alternative political culture and forcibly install it in
place of the mind-set that thinks nothing of taking money
from people to build a museum for the king of polka.
   ---
   Mr. Fund is a Journal editorial writer.