Iraq Isn't Expected to Resume Oil Exports
   Soon Despite Progress in Talks With U.N.
   ----
   By Allanna Sullivan
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Three days of talks between representatives of the U.N.
and Iraq in Vienna ended late Friday with both sides vowing
to meet again soon to renew efforts to reach a pact allowing
Iraq to again become an exporter of oil. U.N. representative
Kofi Annan called the talks "fruitful," while Iraqi
Ambassador Abdul Amir Al-Anbari said he was "satisfied" with
the progress. Proceeds from any sales would be placed in an
escrow account and used only for humanitarian purposes,
according to general outlines of a U.N. plan.
   Oil prices regained some of their strength during trading
late Friday as market participants digested the news. A
statement by Venezuela that it is reducing output by 50,000
barrels daily in order to help prop up prices also prompted a
buying spurt. The Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries, of which Venezuela is a member, has been producing
oil at its highest level in 10 years and a reduction of
output, regardless of how small, gives a psychological boost
to the market.
   But experts remained skeptical that any Iraqi crude oil
would flow into the marketplace for a very long time despite
hopeful forecasts by participants in the Vienna talks. Only
one of Iraq's three terminals in the south remains open for
exports, but the undamaged portions of that facility can
handle no more than 250,000 barrels a day. If the U.N.
blueprint for export renewal was followed, anywhere from
500,000 to 1 million barrels a day, depending upon the time
frame, would have to move out of the country in order for
Iraq to sell the $1.6 billion in oil allowed under the plan.
   It is also unlikely that Saudi Arabia will permit Iraq to
export oil through the pipeline across its territory as it
did prior to the Persian Gulf War. Saudi officials "are
deeply offended personally, not just politically," by Iraq's
invasion of Kuwait, said Antonio Szabo, an executive with the
Houston-based firm of Bonner  Moore, which follows OPEC
closely. "There is tremendous resentment."
   And a pipeline in northern Iraq which in the past carried
as much as one-half of the country's former exports, or 1.5
million barrels daily, hasn't been used since the Gulf crisis
began in August 1990. Recommissioning it could take time,
with pumps, flanges and other parts of the pipeline needing
repair. Parts may be in short supply and outside oil-service
companies are hesitant about going into Iraq and helping
Saddam Hussein renew oil exports.
   Also, a 12-mile stretch of the pipeline runs through
Kurdistan, leaving it vulnerable to sabotage. The Kurds,
industry executives say, have for months been siphoning off
any oil remaining in the pipeline to use for heating and
cooking. Indeed, the Iraqis themselves are reluctant to
depend solely on the pipeline, which also runs through
Turkey, because of Turkish demands that they pay a pipeline
fee three times higher than prior to the war.
   Even those who believe that any technological obstacles
could be overcome think that political infighting and just
plain economics may keep U.N.-Iraqi talks from bearing fruit
quickly. Because of the drastic humanitarian needs of the
Iraqi people, there can be little public opposition to the
talks. But predictions of U.S. foot-dragging are rampant.
Additional Iraqi crude in the marketplace could mean sharply
lower oil prices. Although lower prices would help the
flagging U.S. economy, an oil-price crash could do even more
damage to an already limping domestic oil industry and get
the public even more hooked on oil.
   And "George Bush, because of the elections, doesn't want
Saddam Hussein to regain any stature," said Jack Wilkinson,
chief economist for Sun Co. "We may need to see Saddam
Hussein dead or out of power before we see Iraqi oil
exports."
   Mr. Maxwell of C.J. Lawrence concurs. "The Iraqis have no
friends -- King Fahd {of Saudi Arabia} and George Bush are
loving this," he said. Mr. Maxwell and others say that Saddam
Hussein is playing his usual role of spoiler as well. "He's
trying to hold out for a better deal and he'll put the Iraqi
people through hell to hold that position."
   Saddam Hussein's intransigence may in the end cost him
dearly because the longer he stays out of the market, the
more difficult it will be for Iraq to regain market share.
And with Saudi Arabia pumping 8.5 million barrels daily,
there is currently little need for Iraqi crude. Indeed, said
Mr. Wilkinson, most OPEC members are happy to tell Iraq: "We
don't need your production, thank you very much."