LEISURE  ARTS -- Theater:
   Malkovich Is Back, as a Sexy Dissident
   ----
   By Joel Henning
The role is not entirely wrong for Mr. Malkovich. He does
fine when the script calls for him to be decadent, but he is
far from terrific as a dissident intellectual. Nonetheless,
Mr. Malkovich's fans will want to catch his act and welcome
him back to Chicago even though he displays none of the
dramatic power that helped lift him, and the company, into
national prominence a few years back.
   His devotees must, however, resign themselves to being
mystified if not bored by the plight of the character he
plays, the writer Dominic Tantra, who is first driven to
suicidal paranoia by totalitarian repression and then, after
the dictatorship falls, to unbridled licentiousness.
   If Tantra's plight is boring, the hot sex scenes certainly
are not. The play introduces us and Tantra to a succession of
four young women who come to his remote cabin in the woods,
apparently as intellectual groupies. Each of the first three
has in fact been sent by the authorities to find out what
Tantra is thinking, writing and doing. The wily Tantra easily
seduces each of these comely stooges, in the course of which
he discovers tape recorders planted on highly suggestive
regions of their bodies. Spectators -- men and women alike --
can't help but be riveted by the powerful sexual choreography
between Mr. Malkovich and each of his conquests. Given all
this passionate sex, it's a mystery why Tantra would want to
commit suicide. By the time that Katya, the fourth woman,
shows up bearing news of the country's liberation, Tantra
literally has to remove himself from his home-made hangman's
noose to let her in. He thinks she's just another government
stooge when she tells him that the regime is overthrown and
he can come back to the city. He finds it hard to believe
that she is not a spy, especially because Katya is no less
willing than the others to make love to him.
   That's the first act. The second takes place after the
revolution, in Tantra's cool bachelor pad in the city. If his
life in the country was near-tragedy interlaced with sex, his
return to civilization is quasi-farce interlaced with sex.
Katya now is in the legislature and urges Tantra to get
involved in the embryonic democracy. Tantra refuses. He's a
dissenter, not a joiner. He rejects the "moral bloodletting"
of former communists and chooses rather to exploit his
celebrity by accepting free airline tickets and speaking
engagements all over the world, without regard to the
assigned topic.
   As the second act opens, he is packing to take off for a
science fiction conference in Rotterdam. But before he
leaves, we see all the ladies from act one. Despite his
relationship with Katya, we discover, he has managed to stay
"in touch" with the entire harem he accumulated in the woods.
   Author Hughes says in the playbill that the play is not
about politics "so much as the war between freedom and
responsibility that lives in those who have resisted the lies
and corruption of governments." Perhaps if Mr. Hughes had let
us in on what Tantra said or wrote that caused the government
to exile and repress him, we might be able to focus on his
central theme. But we are stuck with a mythical Eastern
European country and a symbolic author, and neither has any
historical or moral depth of detail.
   Mr. Malkovich has at least one other major problem. He is
on stage throughout the evening and is required to utter just
about every other line in the script. This is no small chore
for any actor, especially one grown used to movie production,
where he need only master a couple of pages per day. At the
opening, he was still struggling with the sheer mass of
words. By now he has undoubtedly learned the lines, but the
bigger problem is that he is miscast. A physical actor, Mr.
Malkovich must spend most of his time here as an intellectual
commentator. It's only when he makes his sexual moves that
his energy courses through the theater.
   The four women are dazzling to look at, and three are
splendid actresses. Their talent and good looks compensate
for the mildly disturbing dissonance caused by their
cacophonous variety of accents when all are supposed to be
university students in the same town. French actress Clotilde
Courau is best. She plays the first of the student spies and
manages to be shy and provocative, intelligent and gullible.
From England, Lizzy McInnerny plays a mess of a woman who
attempts to compensate by bringing order to Tantra's one-room
cottage. Kara Zediker is a local actress who holds her own
nicely in this international assemblage. Unfortunately, the
least convincing of the four actresses has the most to do.
Ingeborga Dapkunaite from Lithuania plays Katya, the only
woman who seeks Tantra out of honest interest in his work,
whatever it may be. She becomes a central player in the new
government and his mistress. But, during her second-act
arguments with Mr. Malkovich about the proper role of the
intellectual in the new era, she seems just a petulant
adolescent. Perhaps the failure is not hers. It might be the
language barrier, or the pallid character Mr. Hughes has
written.
   Thomas Lynch's sets and Kevin Rigdon's lighting
demonstrate why Steppenwolf wanted to move into this new $8
million theater. The first-act cottage looks small and
isolated among the dense, tall trees in the forest. The stage
thrusts forward in front of the cottage so Mr. Malkovich can
step out of the scene between each of his political and
sexual conquests and address the audience as if this were a
university lecture hall. His second-act urban flat is
suitably hip, yet it has that inescapably dour, gray Eastern
European character.
   It's a shame the play itself doesn't better serve
Steppenwolf's most famous ensemble player in his first
opportunity to act in its new quarters. "A Slip of the
Tongue" has a lot to say about moral and political struggles,
words that Mr. Malkovich wouldn't deliver very well even if
they were more interesting. It's the sex that compels here,
and you don't have to travel to Chicago to witness Mr.
Malkovich's raw sex appeal. He's now appearing in print ads
for Andrew Fezza, a New York men's clothing store, and has
just finished shooting a fashion layout for the April issue
of M magazine.