Marketing:
   Tooth-Brushers
   Take a Shine
   To Baking Soda
   ----
   By Gabriella Stern
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Baking-soda toothpastes are still a small fraction of the
overall toothpaste market. Procter  Gamble Co.'s Crest is in
first place in total U.S. toothpaste sales with about 35% of
the market, followed by Colgate with 26.5%. "They're in a
fight to the death," remarks a toothpaste executive with a
rival company.
   Yet just three years after hitting store shelves, Arm 
Hammer Dental Care Toothpaste has garnered 7% of the U.S.
market -- not bad for a company's first venture into
dentifrices. And Church  Dwight, a consumer-products concern
with $347 million in annual sales, is turning a nice profit
on the stuff. Baking-soda toothpaste, a specialty product
that sells for a bit more than regular toothpastes, carries
high profit margins. Says Jay H. Freedman, an analyst with
Kidder Peabody: "Companies make more money on this."
   Not every player in the toothpaste industry is playing
catch-up. PG says it has no immediate plans to introduce a
baking-soda toothpaste. The Cincinnati consumer-products
giant won't say whether one's being developed. But industry
insiders and analysts say it isn't PG's style to be the
fourth entrant in a new market. "It's too late. They're not
going to be the fourth man in," says a person in the
toothpaste industry.
   PG, however, isn't completely staying out of the fray.
Last fall, it filed a truth-in-advertising complaint against
Church  Dwight, Princeton, N.J., with the National
Advertising Division of the Council of Better Business
Bureaus. At issue was a statement printed on tubes of Arm 
Hammer toothpaste: "Two out of three dentists and hygienists
recommend baking soda for healthier teeth and gums. And only
one major toothpaste has it."
   PG complained that the statement misleadingly implies
that toothpaste with baking soda makes teeth and gums
healthier than regular toothpaste. The company argued that
there's no scientific basis for that assertion. Arm  Hammer
eventually agreed to change the statement to "healthy" rather
than "healthier" teeth and gums.
   The labeling dispute gets to a core issue: Exactly what,
if anything, is superior about toothpaste with baking powder?
Not much, say most dentists. Many dentists say brushing with
water and no paste, flossing and gargling with fluoride rinse
accomplishes the same as using toothpaste. Says dentist David
Sultanov: "It's psychological. People think the paste is
doing something."
   Michael Eisenberg, a dentist in Pittsburgh, says patients
who brush their teeth with baking-soda toothpaste seem
disappointed when he tells them: "It's not bad for your
teeth, but you can use regular toothpaste and get the same
results." Kenneth Burrell, director of the Council on Dental
Therapeutics at the American Dental Association, says, "We
don't know whether baking soda is going to give you any
benefit greater than regular toothpaste."
   Curiously, dentists won't get much of an argument from
William Egan, president of the Arm  Hammer division of
Church  Dwight. Mr. Egan unabashedly concedes that
"perception is a large part of reality." He adds, "People
like the product, so they brush."
   Church  Dwight is tapping into a homespun belief,
cherished by many Americans, that baking soda is a superior
cleaning agent. Michael Vargo of Pittsburgh, for example,
says the product has positive associations in his mind
because his father used to brush with baking soda and water.
"I actually don't know if it's better for my teeth, but I
like the way it tastes. My mouth feels real clean and
tingly," he says. Paul Jones of Upper St. Clair, Pa., who
switched from regular toothpaste to the Arm  Hammer product
a few months ago, agrees. "I'm tired of all that gooey sweet
stuff. This is a refreshing change. It feels like it's doing
a better job cleaning your teeth," Mr. Jones says.
   Arm  Hammer executives seem a bit surprised at how well
the product has sold. Mr. Egan says the company was aiming
for a 2% market share when it introduced the toothpaste in
1988. But the company spent heavily on introductory
promotions and captured chunks of the Colgate and Unilever
shares. PG's share "has held up relatively well," says
analyst Mr. Freedman.
   Now, the challenge facing Unilever and New York-based
Colgate is to persuade consumers that their baking-soda
toothpastes are somehow better than Arm  Hammer. Colgate,
which has moved its version into the national market at a
more rapid clip than Unilever, is going head-on against Arm 
Hammer. Colgate baking-soda toothpaste tubes carry the claim:
"Tastes better than the leading baking soda toothpaste.
Smooth and minty. Not too gritty or salty because it contains
natural extra-fine baking soda and natural mint flavor."
   Richard Winger of Boston Consulting Group says Arm 
Hammer will have a tough time hanging onto its market share
now that Unilever and Colgate are in the baking-soda
toothpaste business. "It's easy for established players to
stretch their brand and position it as a line extension," he
says.
   Arm  Hammer's Mr. Egan, however, maintains that "baking
soda and Arm  Hammer are synonymous."
   And then there are consumers who eschew conventional
toothpastes. Dr. Eisenberg recalls treating a patient who
brushed his teeth with Soft Scrub, an abrasive soap. The
patient's teeth were uniformly damaged. Dr. Eisenberg says:
"I asked the patient if he'd always brushed his teeth with
Soft Scrub. The patient said, `No, I used to use Comet. Then
I switched.'"