REVIEW  OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   Protectionism Dies -- Again
Iowa Senator Tom Harkin had the enthusiastic backing of
unions in pushing his flat-earth views on trade. He ran an ad
that attacked Paul Tsongas as one of several "weak Democrats
. . . who support the Bush trade plan" that will "send your
jobs abroad." Mr. Tsongas fired back with a stirring defense
of free trade: "Protectionism is a death trap. This country
went through disaster 60 years ago when it went down that
road, and it is Tom's hope that people do not remember
history." Mr. Harkin came in fourth with 10% of the vote.
   At the instigation of Democratic guru Bob Shrum, Senator
Bob Kerrey trotted out a TV ad in which he said U.S. trade
policy should be conducted like a hockey game and pledged to
"tell Japan if we can't sell in their market, they can't sell
in ours." After the ad ran, Mr. Kerrey saw his poll ratings
plummet from 16% to 8%, and he ended up just edging out Mr.
Harkin. He at least acknowledged that the commercial was a
disaster.
   The winners in the Democratic primary were the two most
unabashed supporters of open trade. Together, Paul Tsongas
and Bill Clinton won 60% of the vote.
   Pat Buchanan's protectionist braintrust, the U.S.
Industrial Council, is touting his New Hampshire showing as
an endorsement of trade restrictions. But Mr. Buchanan's
advisers admit he eschewed the word "protectionism," and
didn't make it the subject of any of his innumerable
commercials. He downplayed his views on trade and immigration
when they failed to rouse audiences.
   The exit polls show New Hampshire voters were interested
in sending George Bush a message on taxes, not trade. Some
30% mentioned Mr. Bush's violation of his "no-new-taxes"
pledge as a very important factor in their vote; only 5%
mentioned trade. Of those who did, 60% voted for Mr. Bush,
the more free-trade candidate. That shouldn't be too
surprising in a state where nearly half the voters own a
foreign car.
   If protectionism didn't sell this year in
recession-wracked New Hampshire, exactly when and where will
it bring electoral dividends?
   In 1980, John Connally was an early Japan-basher -- and
won one delegate after spending $12 million. In 1984, Walter
Mondale muzzled his protectionist message after losing early
primaries to free-trader Gary Hart. When Bob Dole and Pat
Robertson pandered to South Carolina primary voters in 1988
by endorsing tariffs on textile imports, George Bush attacked
them and won resoundingly. Dick Gephardt's infamous
Korea-bashing Hyundai ad helped end his candidacy that year.
Mike Dukakis's last-minute appeals to curb foreign investment
fell flat. Protectionism is often touted by campaign
consultants as a cure-all for politicians behind in the
polls. Instead, it often ends up killing the candidate.
   George Bush's poor New Hampshire showing has raised fears
that the White House might back away from its commitment to a
North American free-trade accord. Such a move would conjure
up images of a panic-driven White House and further undermine
confidence in the Bush presidency. History amply demonstrates
that in the U.S., protectionism is a political loser.