Travel:
   Interactive Video Means Jet Set
   Need Never Come Down to Earth
   ----
   By Rick Wartzman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
"This is the birth of a whole new era" in passenger
comfort and convenience, says Don Washburn, a Northwest
senior vice president who is in charge of the project. Though
some airlines offer the chance to choose a film, Worldlink is
the first system from a domestic carrier that allows people
to tap into a broad database, as if they were using a
personal computer.
   Also, though carriers typically reserve such amenities for
first class and business class, Worldlink will be available
throughout the entire aircraft.
   Northwest, a unit of NWA Inc., will begin installing
Worldlink on its Boeing 747s this summer and expects the
system to be on board all 42 of its jumbo jets by the end of
next year. Officials for the St. Paul, Minn., carrier say
they expect to add Worldlink to the rest of their fleet soon
thereafter. The system is manufactured by a subsidiary of
General Motors Corp.'s Hughes Aircraft Co.
   Some analysts, though, question just how eager the public
will be for such diversions and potential extra costs. Some
travelers may also find it annoying to be a captive audience
for advertisers.
   "It sounds to me like a gimmick to keep people busy while
they sit on the tarmac," says Brad Burris, executive vice
president at Runzheimer International, a management
consulting firm that advises companies on travel costs. "The
most important thing to a business traveler is to get there
on time. Almost anything else is tangential."
   Joe Ornelas, a manager at aircraft maker McDonnell Douglas
Corp., figures the public could dismiss the new system as
gee-whiz gadgetry. Though providing passengers with more
choices seems beneficial, "I'm not sure how big the demand
is, to be honest," he says. "We've gotten mixed reviews from
the airlines about going ahead with this kind of thing."
   Nonetheless, Northwest believes it's onto something that
will "give it an edge, particularly in the Pacific, where the
flights are so long," says John Dasburg, Northwest's
president and chief executive officer.
   The system, built by Hughes Avicom International, works
like this: Everyone on the plane receives a headset and then
gets to pick among a number of options displayed on a
touch-sensitive video monitor measuring four to six inches
diagonally. In economy class, the screen is in the seat back
in front of each passenger. In first class and business
class, it folds out of the armrest.
   Passengers interested in seeing a film will get a choice.
First-class passengers will have four films to choose from,
all of them free. Those in coach will be able to view one
designated movie for free or choose among the rest at a cost
of $6 for the first film and $3 for any after that. Payment
is made through a credit-card reader at the seat.
   In addition, Northwest says it may offer free
documentaries and other entertainment such as music videos. A
multichannel audio system also is part of the package.
   Video games will cost roughly $4 an hour to play and will
be activated with a device similar to a joy stick. Mr.
Washburn says Northwest is still negotiating with several
potential game suppliers.
   There also will be a telephone receiver and transmitter at
every seat. At the outset, passengers will be able to use the
phone only while the plane is over land, but Hughes says it
should be able to add over-water capability within a couple
of years. It also eventually expects to provide live news and
sporting events by satellite.
   On top of that, the system will offer connecting-gate
information and the ability to pre-process passports.
   Then, too, there are the shopping channels. Mr. Washburn
says one will be for duty-free goods and the other will be
like a direct-mail catalog, for which several as yet unnamed
retailers will provide wares.
   For Hughes, the shopping aspect of Worldlink fits
perfectly with its strategy of expanding its commercial
operations. Richard A. Bertagna, president of Hughes Avicom,
says the company will "launch a new business of airborne
merchandising" and participate in all aspects of the business
from maintaining inventories of sales items to filling
customer orders. Hughes will open eight distribution centers
in the U.S. and six in Asia from which it says it will
deliver passenger orders to their specified addresses within
36 hours.
   Several other companies are building equipment akin to
Worldlink. Philips Electronics N.V.'s Airvision unit says it
received an order last June for an interactive system similar
to Hughes's that will begin to be fitted on Virgin Atlantic
Airways' small fleet of 747s this year. Matsushita Electric
Industrial Co. and Sony Corp. also are developing systems.
   Hughes, which valued the Northwest order at $70 million,
won't say with which other airlines it is talking. But once
one carrier introduces a service, competitors often feel
compelled to follow.
   James O'Donnell, chairman of airline consulting firm
Seabrook Marketing, says he foresees big demand. "These
systems make an immense amount of sense from the point of
view of passenger comfort," he says. For one thing, "this
returns to the passenger some sense of control over their
environment."
   Not entirely, of course. Northwest says that Worldlink
will have commercials, which irks some people. "What I want
to know is, do they have a clicker to turn off the
advertising?" asks Richard Edelman, president of Edelman
Public Relations Worldwide. "When I'm on a plane, I want to
tune out, not tune in and be sold." In defense, Mr. Washburn
promises that there won't be too many ads and all of them
will be "entertaining and tasteful."
   "We won't have used-car dealerships and that kind of
stuff," he says.