Technology:
   Intel Plans to Add
   30 New Versions
   Of Microprocessors
   ----
   By Stephen Kreider Yoder
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
"We are going to do heavy-duty proliferation of the 486
and 386SL this year," Mr. Grove said in an interview.
   The Santa Clara, Calif., chip maker's new arsenal will
answer new challenges in the market for microprocessors,
which play "central commander" in personal computers. PC
makers, suffering from ruinous price wars on nearly identical
machines, are hankering for a bigger choice of chips to set
their machines apart. And Intel's dominance has come under
assault by "clone" chips from rival Advanced Micro Devices
Inc., Sunnyvale, Calif. Several others plan to market Intel
clones this year as well.
   Intel's new rivals are all targeting markets that Intel
largely ignored while it still held a monopoly on fast
"32-bit" chips, such as the 386 and 486, that computer makers
build into PCs that use Microsoft Corp.'s MS-DOS operating
software. Advanced Micro, which last year offered the first
alternative to Intel's 386 chip, has profited greatly by
designing clones that run faster, use less electricity, or
are packaged differently from Intel's offerings.
   In the past "we've always left holes" in the product line,
conceded Mr. Grove. This year, "we intend to leave no holes."
   Many of Intel's new chips will be tailored to the booming
portable-computer market, a niche Advanced Micro has
exploited by offering lower-voltage chips than Intel does. In
the first quarter of 1992, Intel plans to introduce versions
of its 486SX and 486DX that run at 3.3 volts instead of the
five volts needed for today's Intel chips. Low voltage is
important for extending battery life.
   Intel plans to offer a 3.3-volt 386SL in the year's first
half and a 3.3-volt chip that will probably be named the
486SL, in the second half, Mr. Grove said. Intel's SL chips
contain circuitry designed to conserve electricity by
shutting down portions of the chip that aren't being used.
   Intel also expects to introduce in the first quarter a new
line of its 486 chips that double the internal speed of
today's 486 chips. In the second quarter, it will offer fast
486 chips that plug into "upgrade" sockets found in some PCs.
   While some critics question whether PC users need faster
chips, Mr. Grove argues that a fundamental principle insures
demand. Mr. Grove's law: Software developers tend to create
programs that demand more power than contemporary chips
provide. Thus, "it takes the next generation of processors to
run it properly," he said.
   To keep a lead in new generations, Intel has stepped up
development of future lines. Along with the P-5, expected to
become the 586 when introduced in late summer, Intel is
developing two further iterations, expected to become the 686
and 786 when unveiled later this decade. Intel hasn't ever
had three chip generations in development simultaneously
before, Mr. Grove said.
   A spokesman for Advanced Micro said that Intel's barrage
of new chips "by no means freezes us out of the market. We do
well in competing with Intel." In addition, he said, "No
matter how many variations Intel comes out with, the customer
always wants more than one source for critical components."