Antisense Aside, Genetic Researchers
   Are Still Up to Their Old Tricks
   ----
   By David Stipp
Bioengineers also continue to develop new drugs and
diagnostics based on another pivotal technology that helped
launch their industry in the 1970s: monoclonal antibodies.
These are immune-system molecules tailored to act as "magic
bullets," selectively sticking to, and potentially knocking
out, cancer or other cells.
   The gene splicer's goal usually is to make a naturally
occurring protein that performs an important function, such
as promoting the growth of red blood cells. Often the
proteins are impractical to extract from tissues or
synthesize with traditional chemical methods.
Bioengineering's magic lies in programming nonhuman cells to
produce these hard-to-obtain human molecules.
   Cells -- from bacteria to human neurons -- employ genes,
which are pieces of DNA, as blueprints for making proteins,
molecules that serve as building blocks and metabolic
workhorses in the body. Scientists scissor out selected genes
for making, say, insulin and paste them into bacteria cells'
DNA molecules.
   Next, bioengineers let their customized microbes do what
comes naturally -- multiply -- by putting them in a kind of
nutrient soup in big vats. The more bacteria there are, the
more insulin they make. Eventually, the insulin is extracted,
purified and sold as a drug to diabetics, who suffer from an
internal insulin shortage.
   Many variations of gene splicing are emerging. For
instance, instead of simply transferring single genes from
one species to another, scientists now are fabricating
artificial, multipart genes that, when inserted in bacteria,
produce proteins with novel combinations of desired
properties. Such "chimeric" proteins include potential
anti-cancer drugs whose molecules act as Trojan horses: Part
of the molecule resembles a substance that tumor cells
readily absorb, while the other part is a toxic substance
that kills the tumor cell.
   This Trojan horse idea also is being tried with monoclonal
antibodies, the "magic bullet" technology. Antibodies are
molecules made by the immune system to fend off viruses and
other invading microorganisms. Their shapes are complementary
to "antigenic" molecules on the surfaces of foreign microbes,
causing the antibodies to single out and clasp them like the
glass slipper singling out Cinderella.
   In the 1970s, researchers developed methods to isolate and
grow batches of immune cells from mice that produce countless
identical antibodies. The methods also enabled scientists to
tailor these monoclonal antibodies, or MABs, so that they
would stick to a molecule of interest -- such as one found on
the surfaces of cancer cells but rarely on normal ones. By
chemically linking toxins to such MABs, scientists hoped to
make microscopic guided missiles that would kill cancer cells
without harming surrounding healthy tissue.
   MAB experts soon discovered that making effective drugs
based on their promising technology was harder than expected.
MABs produced by mouse cells tend to trigger adverse immune
responses when injected into humans. Finding MABs selective
enough to attach to bad cells without also sticking to good
ones posed problems. But the major problems have now been at
least partly solved, and a number of companies are nearing
paydirt with MAB-based drugs for treating shock from acute
infections, cancer and other disorders.
   But what, after all, is antisense?
   Briefly, it's a technique for blocking genes so they can't
be used within cells to make proteins. The blocking agent is
a DNA-like molecule tailored to stick to and disable a
specific, complementary piece of DNA, or a related molecule
called messenger RNA, in cells. One use of antisense is to
prevent potentially harmful proteins from being made -- for
instance, ones that cause cancer.
   Though antisense makes sense in principle, experimental
drugs based on it haven't yet been shown to work in humans.
But the idea is promising enough to have sparked a heated
research and development race among a half-dozen or so small
biotechnology companies, including Genta Inc., Gilead
Sciences Inc., Hybridon Inc. and Synthecell Corp.