Federated to Merge
   Its Jordan Marsh,
   AS Headquarters
   ----
   By Jeffrey A. Trachtenberg
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The move is the first significant operating decision
Federated has made since emerging from Chapter 11
bankruptcy-law protection in early February, when the old
Federated and Allied Stores Corp. were merged together. It
also reflects the rapid consolidation of the department store
industry. R.H. Macy  Co., for example, has combined its
three department store divisions into two units. And May
Department Stores Co. recently combined the central
operations of its Ayres department store chain, based in
Indianapolis, into FamousBarr, a department store chain based
in St. Louis.
   In an interview, James Zimmerman, president and chief
operating officer of Federated, said all central operations
at the Jordan Marsh unit in Boston will be eliminated,
including accounting, merchandising, advertising and
personnel. Instead, those services will be provided by
Abraham  Straus, based in Brooklyn, N.Y.
   Jordan Marsh, based in Boston, employs about 500 people in
central operations, but not all of them will lose their jobs.
In what promises to be a fierce struggle, employees in
similiar posts at the two chains will be evaluated
individually on their job skills. "It's a difficult situation
for the people affected, but as a business decision, this is
almost routine," said Mr. Zimmerman. It's expected that 100
new jobs will be created at AS in Brooklyn.
   Jordan Marsh and Abraham  Straus will continue to do
business under their own names, and the charge cards they
have issued won't be affected. Together, the two chains
operate 35 stores that generated revenues in excess of $1.4
billion for the year ended Feb. 1. Both retailers serve
similar middle-class customer bases.
   "Federated is acting now because it still has very high
debt and needs to reduce costs and tighten operations," said
Walter Loeb, a retail consultant. "They have the computer
technology in place which lets them manage their business
more efficiently."
   The consolidated Jordan Marsh and Abraham  Straus chains
will be headed by Chaim Edelstein, chairman and chief
executive officer of Abraham  Straus, and Leonard Marcus,
president and chief operating officer of Abraham  Straus.
Harold S. Frank, who was named chairman of Jordan Marsh in
January 1991, will help oversee the merger. Mr. Frank will
report to Mr. Zimmerman.
   Federated, which generated about $7 billion in revenue in
the year ended Feb. 1, emerged from bankruptcy proceedings
with $3.5 billion of debt.