High Court Rules Debtors Cannot Shrink
   Mortgages to Reflect Property Value Loss
   ----
   By Paul M. Barrett
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Under Chapter 7 of the code, debtors must surrender most
of their assets for liquidation and distribution of the
proceeds among creditors. The case decided yesterday involved
a debtor who tried to keep real estate despite having
defaulted on the loan secured by the land. The Supreme Court
affirmed a lower-court ruling blocking this effort.
   The debtor, Aletha Dewsnup, had borrowed $119,000 secured
by farmland in Utah. She defaulted on the loan, but the
foreclosure sale was delayed by her subsequent commencement
of bankruptcy-law proceedings. During those proceedings, Ms.
Dewsnup sought to reduce her loan obligation to the current
value of the land, which was estimated to have fallen to
$39,000. This approach would have allowed her to extinguish
the debt at the reduced market value and keep her real estate
for possible sale when the price increased.
   The high court, in a 6-2 decision, said the Bankruptcy
Code protects the lender's interest in the real estate and
doesn't allow the debtor to shrink her mortgage. The court's
ruling would allow lenders in such cases to foreclose on
debtors' real estate and sell the land when its market value
rose. Justice Harry Blackmun wrote the majority opinion;
Justice Clarence Thomas didn't participate in the decision.
   Richard Taranto, the lawyer for the lender in the case,
said the court's decision would probably also apply to
bankruptcy proceedings under Chapter 13, which permits
salaried individuals to reorganize their financial affairs
without surrendering their assets. (Dewsnup vs. Timm)
   In a separate 6-2 decision, the Supreme Court said state
and local officials have broad latitude to seek changes in
federal court orders designed to reform public institutions
such as overcrowded jails or segregated schools.
   The high court said federal courts should consider
modifying their orders under a "flexible" standard that
focuses on whether there have been "significant changes in
facts or law" and whether the proposed modification "is
suitably tailored to the changed circumstance."
   The decision, in a jail-overcrowding case from Boston,
came the day after Attorney General William Barr said the
Justice Department would change its policy and try to help
state prison officials free themselves from federal court
supervision. The Supreme Court's action is likely to be
interpreted as an additional incentive for state and local
officials to try to reduce the role of federal judges who
oversee to varying degrees the prison systems of most states.
   Significantly, however, the high court said that federal
judges supervising state prisons aren't limited to upholding
inmates' minimum constitutional protections against cruel and
unusual punishment. Instead, in an opinion written by Justice
Byron White, the court asserted that judges may impose
remedies beyond what the Constitution requires, if state
officials agree to cooperate as a way to settle litigation.
The high court's position appears to be at odds with that of
Attorney General Barr, who said that federal judges may
intervene only to address constitutional violations.
   The decision was still a defeat overall for reform
advocates, who have argued that federal courts shouldn't
disturb orders that bind state and local officials, unless
"new and unforeseen conditions" would cause a "grievous
wrong." The Supreme Court last year rejected "rigid"
application of the grievous-wrong standard in school
desegregation cases. Yesterday the court reiterated that the
grievous-wrong approach, announced in a 1932 antitrust
decision, has been distorted and improperly applied to other
factual contexts.
   In the Boston case, jail officials had sought to modify a
court order aimed at relieving overcrowding and other
problems at the Suffolk County jail. The officials, claiming
there had been unforeseen growth in the inmate population,
wanted permission to double-bunk some pre-trial detainees. A
federal trial judge rejected the request based on the
grievous-wrong standard, and the federal appeals court in
Boston affirmed that decision. The Supreme Court set aside
the earlier rulings and returned the case to the trial court
for further analysis under the more flexible standard. (Rufo
vs. Inmates of Suffolk County Jail)
   Separately, the high court affirmed a lower-court ruling
that in child-molestation cases, prosecutors have
considerable leeway to present statements by alleged victims,
as recounted by adults who heard the statements. (White vs.
Illinois)