LEISURE  ARTS -- Television:
   Cops and Lawyers, Unromanticized
   ----
   By Dorothy Rabinowitz
"Law  Order," as its title suggests, manages to impose a
sort of order, if not sanity, on the grim world it deals
with. Its cast of detectives and prosecutors slog about in
their workmanlike way, tracking leads and witnesses,
contending with defense lawyers and thrashing out, among
themselves, the sorts of fine legal points that can win or
lose cases. This is the unchaotic counterreality to the abyss
in the streets, a world in which decent cops work hard,
conspiring and dealing and, sometimes, winning against the
legions of darkness. It is their reality we come to know
intimately, the expertise of these civilized and good men
that we follow, and that inevitably dominates the drama.
   "Law  Order" tells us there are authorities out there --
seasoned veterans working and struggling, often successfully,
to get criminals convicted despite a justice system run wild
with special dispensations and daily reinvented
constitutional rights. They've seen it all, but acquired no
armor of indifference. If only such authorities actually
existed, they wouldn't even have to be as decent, and as
smart, as Detectives Ceretta and Logan or as civilized and
wise a top dog as District Attorney Adam Schiff.
   The best thing about "Law  Order" may be, in the end, a
cast of characters earthbound enough to nurture such a hope.
The one character who keeps looking larger than life is
Assistant DA Ben Stone. He is played by Michael Moriarty, who
has always looked like a man beamed in from a better place, a
presence aglow with a slightly unearthly moral radiance. He
glows that way here, too, and it works very well for him.
Catch him questioning a tough 17-year-old who falsely accused
someone of molesting her. The eyes that bore in on her, the
voice that urges her when Stone asks if she understands the
consequences of what she's done, aren't those of a
policeman-therapist. This is moral intensity of a special
order.
   The show's other star is the wonderful Steven Hill, who
portrays Adam Schiff, a character of whom we see too little.
Hill's DA Schiff, it should be pointed out, is also a man who
knows how to maintain his magisterial poise while chewing a
sandwich and talking at the same time. When you've watched
enough cop shows packed with servants of the people stuffing
their faces, you get to appreciate these things.
   "Law  Order" is demanding, as prime time goes, full of
quick-paced goings-on and conversation whose points require
attention. The scripts assume an audience capable of
following a whole English sentence without pictures being
drawn for it, an audience that reads papers, and possibly
even knows a thing or two. Imagine that on prime time.
   The scripts also assume an audience willing to follow the
interestingly complicated points of law the prosecutors bat
around. Creator Dick Wolf and his writers draw on highly
recognizable real events: serial killings, child molestation,
the torching of a dance hall. The one involving accusations
of sex abuse at a center for homeless teenagers sounds a lot
like what happened at New York's Covenant House in the heyday
of its famous former director, Father Bruce Ritter.
   Each episode begins with a crime, or, occasionally, the
suspicion that one has been committed. Detectives Ceretta
(Paul Sorvino) and Logan (Christopher Noth) take charge of
the first half-hour's clue hunts and witness chases under the
direction of precinct Captain Cragen (Dann Florek). There are
no wasted words here, no posturings, only open notebooks and
the assurance that somebody out there knows something. Up
against a cold trail, Ceretta and Logan press calmly on till
somebody drops a name and they're in business again. When
they've collected the evidence, the action shifts to the
prosecution team -- which also includes Assistant DA Paul
Robinette (Richard Brooks) -- which takes it through the
second half-hour to conclusion.
   Every episode attests to a devotion to detail, and an
uncommon willingness to trust a scene to make its point-to
make it, that is, without knocking those in the audience over
the head to make sure they get it.
   One story this season concerned an elderly man accused --
by his daughter -- of having sexually assaulted and killed a
neighbor boy decades earlier. The dignified retiree finally
confesses in a packed courtroom. In one quick, sweeping shot
the cameras catch the horror in the room; they catch the
averted eyes, the controlled grimace on the judge's face, the
pure silence. Imagine the bells, whistles and other
underlinings that would have accompanied such a scene on,
say, "L.A. Law."
   One recently aired episode was about a homeless man
charged with brutal murder and robbery. This set the stage
for a sharp debate about some of the more exotic legal rights
that can be used if you have the right defense attorney. The
right lawyer can argue that prosecutors have trespassed by
unlawfully entering the killer's domicile -- in this case,
the grounds of a public park. The famous ACLU lawyer and
defender of the oppressed making this argument surely must
have reminded viewers of that famous activist lawyer William
Kunstler -- and not by accident. The portrait wasn't exactly
hostile; nor was it friendly.
   It's on account of shows like this that "Law  Order"
often is charged with tilting to the right. In fact the show
doesn't tilt much either left or right, but the accusation
that it has a right bias is a telling one. In the strange and
wondrous times in which we live, airing both sides of social
questions is quite enough to get even a lifelong Democrat
like Mr. Wolf tagged as a reactionary.