International:
   World Wire
   ----
   Compiled by Richard L. Holman
Sweden's inflation rate last month dropped to its lowest
level in 23 years. Just a year ago, its rate was among the
Western world's highest at 13.3%.
   The February consumer price index showed a year-to-year
rise of 2.5%, a rate not seen since July 1969. The
improvement was attributed to a combination of tax reform and
a cut in the value-added tax, though the level could be a
temporary low resulting from the VAT's reduction to 18% from
25% on food and transportation at the start of this year.
Also, Sweden's economic downturn has produced slimmer wage
increases and softer consumer demand.
   The data, though expected, show that Sweden has forcefully
steered its economy on the right track, economists said,
expressing optimism about long-term prospects for inflation,
which must conform to European Community guidelines for
Sweden's membership application to be approved.
   Economists expect inflation to run at 3% to 3.5% through
next year.
                                                                                                       

   GREECE IMPOSES A WAGE FREEZE
                                                                                                       

   As a wave of strikes engulfed Greece, Parliament passed a
measure freezing public-sector wages this year, in a bid to
cut the country's inflation rate. Since Tuesday, thousands of
workers protesting the wage-freeze bill shut down some
mass-transit services, state-owned banks, public utilities,
tax offices and customs services, causing havoc. School
teachers joined in yesterday. Air travel hasn't been
affected. Greece's annual inflation was running at 18.2% last
month, the highest rate in the European Community, which had
a 4.7% average in January.
                                                                                                       

   CHINA WANTS EX-SOVIET SCIENCE
                                                                                                       

   Beijing seeks to recruit scientists and import technology
from the former Soviet Union. China plans to negotiate
cooperation accords with Russia, Ukraine, Belarus, Uzbekistan
and Kazakhstan, the China Daily newspaper said. Beijing
hasn't had extensive scientific dealings with the former
U.S.S.R. since the 1950s, when Moscow sent thousands of
scientists and engineers to China. Moscow called the
specialists home in 1960 when bilateral relations collapsed.
Many Chinese factories have Soviet-installed gear, and many
Chinese weapons are modeled on Soviet arms.
                                                                                                       

   BRITISH AIR TRAVEL REBOUNDS
                                                                                                       

   Air travel in Britain last month continued a recovery from
a year earlier, when trips were canceled or postponed because
of Gulf War-related fears. Britain's eight airports handled
4.8 million passengers, up 33% from February 1991's unusually
depressed levels and up 3.4% from a more seasonally normal
level in February 1990. Traffic at London's Heathrow Airport
last month rose 7% from two years earlier, but at Gatwick,
the No. 2 London airport, traffic fell 10% from February
1990.
                                                                                                       

   CRIME IN RUSSIA SOARS
                                                                                                       

   Crimes reported in Russia in this year's first two months
jumped 31% to 376,899 from a year earlier. Two in three cases
involved property. Much of the increase stemmed from scarcity
and higher prices of consumer goods, and from more readily
available weapons, particularly from army deserters. Reported
offenses involving arms rose 31% and those against foreigners
climbed 49%. St. Petersburg, Russia's second-largest city
with 4.9 million people, and the surrounding region had both
the highest crime rate and the lowest number of solved cases
in the republic, which has a total population of 149 million.
                                                                                                       

   FRANCE UNVEILS BUILDING PLAN
                                                                                                       

   France unveiled a plan that it hopes will create 50,000 to
60,000 jobs in the depressed housing, road-building and
public transportation sectors. The plan includes measures
designed to make it easier for households with modest incomes
to acquire real estate, and provides tax incentives for
renovation. Additional government funding will be made
available this year to accelerate road construction and to
finance transportation projects in some cities.
                                                                                                       

   JAPAN'S CAPITAL-SPENDING OUTLOOK
                                                                                                       

   Japanese corporations' capital outlays in the year
starting April 1 are expected to decline from a year earlier,
which would be the first such drop in two decades.
   A February survey of 2,710 companies by the Japan
Development Bank showed total planned capital spending is
likely to fall 0.8%, mostly because of investment reins in
the manufacturing sector amid Japan's economic slowdown.
   Planned investments by manufacturers, including auto
makers and electronics companies, will fall 6.4%, marking
their first drop in five years, the survey showed, citing a
slowdown in areas such as communications and transportation
systems. In the non-manufacturing sector, spending is
expected to rise 3.2%. The expected overall decrease in
capital spending would contribute to a further slowing of
Japan's economy next year.
   In the year ending March 31, overall capital spending is
predicted to rise 8.9%, ending the double-digit annual
increases since the fiscal year that began in 1988.
                                                                                                       

   POSTSCRIPTS . . .
                                                                                                       

   France decided to lift its embargo on imports of South
African coal, imposed to protest apartheid in November 1985,
when the African nation supplied 30% of France's coal
imports. . . . About 20 restaurants in Changsha, in central
China, were fined after police and wildlife officials found
that half the game items on menus had protected status. Among
the animals being served up: leopard, macaque (a monkey) and
pangolin (a scaly anteater).