Inside Track:
   CML Group Insiders Are Selling Shares,
   But Analysts Remain High on Company
   ----
   By Alexandra Peers
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The Acton, Mass., company is the parent of NordicTrack
Fitness; Nature Co., which sells such outdoor equipment as
binoculars and maps; and Britches of Georgetowne, a clothing
chain.
   Since Oct. 3, six insiders at CML have sold stock valued
at about $8 million. Altogether, they have sold 296,743
shares at $23 to $34.25 a share, SEC filings show. Some of
the insiders sold substantial percentages of their total
holdings in the company; two more insiders have since filed
with the SEC notices of their intention to sell shares.
   G. Robert Tod, president, sold 61,354 shares, 16% of his
holding, in several sales since Oct. 8, according to SEC
filings. Chairman Charles M. Leighton sold 27,000 shares and
has filed plans to sell 20,000 more; together, these sales
would represent 12% of Mr. Leighton's holding. The remaining
four insiders sold shares representing 63% to 100% of their
total holdings in the company, in a mixture of option-related
transactions and outright sales.
   Robert Samuelson, CML's chief financial officer, said:
"The large holders sold insignificant portions of their
shares" and, for the smaller holders, "it wasn't big
dollars." Mr. Samuelson himself acquired 28,210 shares on
Dec. 27 through the exercise of options and immediately sold
the shares. He retains 1,010 shares, SEC filings show.
   CML's outlook "is pretty good," Mr. Samuelson said. At
NordicTrack, "we haven't felt the recession," and sales have
been so strong "we can't fill the orders," he said. Insider
selling was prohibited for much of 1990 and 1991, he said,
because CML was in the midst of a restructuring in which it
sold off several of its units and sharply decreased its debt.
While the company had a debt-to-equity ratio of 3.5-to-1 in
late 1990, it is now completely debt-free, he said.
   So is the insider selling just profit-taking? Wall Street
seems to think that CML has higher to go. Analysts laud the
company's expansion into low-cost kiosks set up in shopping
malls that allow customers to try out NordicTrack equipment.
Analysts note that the company has added both lower-cost and
higher-cost NordicTrack models and has added a new buyer to
its Britches chain to boost sales there.
   In the first quarter ended Nov. 2, sales for NordicTrack
Fitness, Nature Co. and Britches were up 39%, 18% and 0.5%,
respectively, according to CML. The company hasn't released
December sales figures, but Mr. Samuelson said sales were "a
continuation of the trend or better."
   In November, First Boston Corp. upgraded its
recommendation on CML stock from "buy" to a "strong buy";
Fidelity Investments has CML shares in several of its mutual
funds. Mary English, a Fidelity analyst, said she "loves the
stock" because CML "is continuing to provide solid results in
a recessionary environment."
   At a time when "a lot of investors are looking for less
highly leveraged companies," she said, CML has trimmed its
balance sheet by reducing debt. Moreover, "earnings surprises
on the up side" will continue to give the stock reasons to
rise, she predicted.