Retailing:
   Colleges' Student Unions Face Big Test
   And the Answers Are on the Bottom Line
   ----
   By Pauline Yoshihashi
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Scores of other campuses across the nation now offer
brand-name fast food, convenience stores, computer software,
compact disks, and services of all sorts to meet the demands
of an increasingly affluent student body. As higher education
struggles through waves of cost-cutting, colleges are in
effect turning to their own customers to keep student centers
afloat.
   "We have to better respond to the needs of our population,
and become fiscally responsible, too," says Manuel Cunard,
director of Colorado State's Lory Student Center. As
enrollment in higher education grows only modestly from about
13.6 million students currently, schools will have to
scramble for extra funds in coming years.
   The Lory Center is a textbook case of the push for
profitability. In the mid-1980s, it was in a jam. With
$250,000 in debt, the center couldn't meet bond obligations
on the building and was in technical default.
   After a quick review and a boost from another bond sale,
the university began overhauling the center by converting its
450-seat cafeteria to a food court that produced a tenfold
jump in revenue, Mr. Cunard says. Then came a $1.2 million
overhaul of the bookstore, which now boasts a 65-foot archway
reminiscent of a suburban shopping mall and offers more soft
goods along with the standard fare of books and school
supplies.
   The center includes a Hardee's fast-food outlet, a travel
agency, ice cream parlor, hair salon, three banks and a
recently opened computer hardware store. Those businesses
complement the union's ballrooms and lecture halls, as well
as its bowling alleys, video arcade, game room and
outdoor-equipment rental shop.
   Last year, the center produced $18 million in operating
revenue at the 20,000-student campus, and relied on student
fees for less than 7% of its total operating budget. "We have
about 320,000 square feet, and we're using every inch," Mr.
Cunard says. Student surveys may lead to even more services,
such as dry cleaning.
   "College students are far more active and acquisitive, and
far more experienced as consumers than we gave them credit
for," says Stuart Himmelfarb of Roper CollegeTrack, a
market-research firm that specializes in college students.
   The firm says students at colleges, universities and
junior colleges control about $13 billion in discretionary
income, which amounts to a per-student average of $134 a
month spent on nonessential items such as cosmetics,
entertainment and eating out. "They're also very mobile, and
very selective," Mr. Himmelfarb notes. "The challenge to
retailers is to capture their attention."
   Richard Wertz, vice president, business affairs, at the
University of South Carolina, notes that some businesses just
aren't made for colleges. "Greek logo things for fraternities
and sororities work well, but you can't be selling cashmere
sweaters," he says.
   But mixing marketing and academia can spark some
philosophical as well as practical problems.
   "The idea of comparing student unions to shopping centers
is one that's caused some people to bristle -- it's too
crass, too commercial and lacks the educational component,"
says J. William Johnston, assistant vice president, student
affairs, at Southern Methodist University and president of
the Association of College Unions-International. "But
philosophically, they're the community center of campus, and
malls have become that in our society."
   Pragmatists argue that without money-generating
student-union businesses, funds for other academic and social
functions will be limited or cut off entirely. "This is a
research campus, and we feel that as many resources as
possible should go toward that," says James Carruthers,
director of the Price Center, the student union at the
University of California at San Diego. "That's part of our
function."
   But outside businesses can be thrust into social and
political flaps, such as the brouhaha over bookseller Barnes
 Noble pulling "The Satanic Verses" off some campus shelves
in 1989. "We report to the (college) administration when an
issue like that comes up," says Alan Kahn, president of
Barnes  Noble Bookstore Inc., which operates more than 240
campus stores under its college division.
   In California, some student groups at the California State
University at Northridge and other campuses have fought the
opening of Carl's Jr. fast-food restaurants because of the
political views of Carl Karcher Enterprises Inc. founder,
Carl N. Karcher. Mr. Karcher has supported anti-abortion
political candidates and proposals that some groups have
called homophobic, sparking student protests. "Carl will
continue to exercise his right to free speech," says Shirley
Bracken, a Karcher Enterprises vice president.
   Moreover, the business end isn't as easy as it may look.
Marriott Corp., whose education-services unit pulls in $670
million in revenue from 430 colleges and universities, says
operators can find it tough to adjust to having a highly
seasonal group of employees and customers. Most have to
squeeze 12 months' profit out of the nine months when most
students fill campuses, and hire and train new groups of
employees more often than restaurants in other locations.
   Some student unions can be victims of their own success.
Local merchants in South Carolina and elsewhere have raised a
fuss over on-campus stores, arguing that a university's
tax-exempt status puts offcampus small businesses at a
disadvantage. Schools have run into similar spats over
on-campus rock concerts and other money-making enterprises,
and most take pains to avoid town-and-gown publicity flaps.
Some invite complaining town merchants to set up branches on
campus.
   Despite those issues, the rush to retailing continues.
Follett Corp., of Chicago, one of the nation's biggest
campus-bookstore operators with more than 400 outlets,
reports that more than 35% of its business on campus now
stems from supplies, food, snacks and other nontextbook
items. The company is branching out into coffee shops, custom
publishing and other areas to bolster profit.
   If students still want to go off campus to shop, the
student unions might provide the wheels. "If we could figure
out the space, we'd put in a car-rental agency," says the
University of South Carolina's Mr. Wertz. "We're willing to
try any number of things that might work."