LEISURE  ARTS:
   Film: A Writer's Journey; Nanny's Revenge
   ----
   By Julie Salamon
As a director, Mr. Cronenberg has made his mark as a
science fiction genius, with such films as "Scanners" and
"The Fly," and as a gleeful student of the perverse, with
"Dead Ringers," the story of depraved twin gynecologists. The
director has an obsession for body parts, especially
genitalia, that seems twisted yet oddly playful, almost
innocent. He frequently translates emotional and
psychological metamorphosis into physical terms -- often
explosive, often gross and almost always sticky and icky. He
likes ooze.
   So, not surprisingly, he has zeroed in on the science
fiction elements of Mr. Burroughs's novel and then expanded
them, creating an assortment of creatures that become the
physical manifestation of the writer's introspective journey.
Yet the supernatural forces appear as part of ordinary life
-- at least ordinary life as it appears to the picture's main
character, a former junkie and writer named Bill Lee who
"accidentally" kills his wife and tries to find atonement in
drugs and fantasy.
   Dark and mysterious as all this sounds, "Naked Lunch" is
also very funny, as Bill Lee negotiates his demons, real and
imagined. He is a writer who won't write (gave it up when he
was 10 years old, he says, "too dangerous"). He's a former
junkie who works as an exterminator, only to find that in the
absurdist world he lives in the bug powder he uses for his
work is addictive, and his wife has gotten hooked ("a very
literary high," she explains dryly). He's homosexual, but
seems to find all sex to be alien (so much so that when he
attempts to seduce his wife's alter ego their lovemaking is
interrupted by a large, squirmy creature produced by their
heated grabs at one another).
   Peter Weller is amazingly good as Lee, a sorrowful, ironic
man who periodically punctuates his laconic style with vivid
bursts of stream of consciousness, which seem pure Burroughs.
The actor's thin, cool face can make him seem impenetrable,
which was perhaps why he was so successful as the machine-man
in "Robocop" and the obsessive scientist in "The Adventures
of Buckaroo Banzai." But here he is multifaceted -- witty as
well as tragic.
   The movie is richly atmospheric, its metaphoric absurdity
grounded in a world that seems vividly real. The picture
takes place in 1953, first in a New York City composed of
Lee's scruffy apartment, his work place, and a cafe, where he
listens to his beat poet friends talk about writing.
Cinematographer Peter Suschitzky keeps the lights low and the
colors lustrous but slightly sickly (the bug powder -- the
fictionalized drug -- is greenish-yellow).
   Lee appears to take his work as exterminator quite
seriously, and one starts to realize that this obsessive
interest in bugs is his way of not taking an interest in his
human life -- and the temptations of drugs he's tried to give
up, and men, when he's married to a woman (played acutely by
Judy Davis). He kills her the way Burroughs killed his wife
character, as part of a William Tell routine they used to
perform together. Then he, Lee, leaves for the netherworld of
Interzone, sort of a Morocco of the hallucinating mind. There
the tale becomes a weird spy story co-mingled with literary
and sexual musings, more visual than verbal. It all may lead
nowhere, but the trip is remarkably amusing.
   ---
   "The Hand That Rocks the Cradle," on the other hand,
couldn't be more straightforward. Amanda Silver has written a
screenplay that couldn't be more obvious in its calculations:
A prototypically nice upper-middle-class couple hire what
seems to be the perfect nanny for their newborn child. What
they don't know is that the woman was married to an
obstetrician, the same obstetrician whom the yuppie wife
accused of sexually molesting her during an examination and
who killed himself when this all became public. His wife
wants revenge.
   Nothing has been revealed here that isn't given away in
the first minutes of the movie. Yet director Curtis Hanson
has managed to turn this obviousness into a kind of virtue.
He has made a nearly perfect B movie: Its mechanics are
entirely on display, but it manages to be incredibly scary
anyway.
   ---
   VIDEO TIP: The companion piece to "Naked Lunch" would have
to be Gus Van Sant's "Drugstore Cowboy." This gritty yet
poetic film about the attraction as well as the horror of
drugs includes, among many things, Burroughs playing an old
junkie.