BCCI Credit List Shows Shadowy Bank
   Dealt With Many Prominent Companies
   ----
   By Thomas Petzinger Jr. and Peter Truell
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
Prominent European companies were even more numerous on
the list. They included Siemens AG, the German technology
giant, and units of Royal Dutch/Shell Group, the world's
biggest oil company.
   Some of Asia's premier companies also were listed, such as
Toshiba Corp., the Japanese electronics giant, and Samsung
Group, South Korea's largest conglomerate. In most cases, the
borrowings involved only a few million dollars, although an
Indonesian timber tycoon who invests with family members of
President Suharto was listed as borrowing hundreds of
millions of dollars. Third World governments and state-owned
enterprises -- notably in Africa, China and Jamaica -- also
were identified as significant borrowers.
   The loan book presents a snapshot of a bank that was able
to maintain business relationships with some of the world's
leading corporations despite its involvement in a massive and
well-publicized 1988 money-laundering case. The list also
shows the extent of BCCI's global reach, indicating that it
was involved not only in questionable dealings but in
legitimate ones as well.
   The list appears to include only customers of BCCI
Holdings (Luxembourg) S.A. that were authorized to borrow
$7.5 million or more, a group of about 280 companies and
individuals. The credit extended to the listed group totaled
$9.63 billion, roughly half of BCCI's deposit base.
   By far the biggest sums were associated with BCCI
insiders. For instance, the bank's principal owner, Sheik
Zayed bin-Sultan al-Nahyan, the ruler of Abu Dhabi, and
members of the al-Nahyan family borrowed a total of $329
million, according to the list -- not to mention additional
tens of millions in credits to state-owned companies in Sheik
Zayed's sovereign domain. It isn't clear how these loans will
be treated in the pending liquidation of BCCI, in which a
federal judge here is scheduled to issue a key ruling today.
   One caveat hangs over the March 31 loan book. Auditors,
investigators and journalists have discovered that BCCI's
internal records sometimes contained exaggerated or even
bogus information, particularly where insider transactions
were concerned. Nominee arrangements and artificial accounts
were used to create profits and hide losses. On top of that,
even BCCI's legitimate accounting was often downright sloppy.
   But inquiries made to many of the borrowers on the March
31 list suggest that it's generally accurate, often down to
the dollar. Several of the borrowers disputed the listed
amounts, though they generally confirmed having had a
relationship with BCCI. Japan's Sumitomo Corp., for instance,
listed as the borrower of $6.6 million, confirms having dealt
with BCCI in the past but denies ever borrowing money. But
Royal Ordnance PLC, a British munitions manufacturer, denies
borrowing the $4.9 million attributed to it on the list,
saying that it severed its relations with BCCI when it became
worried about the propriety of the bank's activities.
   All of the borrowers contacted said their loans were
entirely proper. Typical was the response of Bernard Mendik,
managing partner of a group that owns the 39-story building
at 330 Madison Ave. in New York. He called the partnership's
$55 million in listed borrowings from BCCI "a perfectly
ordinary mortgage made in the mid-1980s."
   Why choose BCCI, a bank that was little known in the U.S.
until its indictment in 1988 on massive money-laundering
charges? "We scoured the market," Mr. Mendik said, "and they
came up with the best deal."
   Many of the borrowings involve letters of credit, which
most commonly are used to finance trade. Zenith, for
instance, found its credit line useful for guaranteeing
payments to suppliers when it was borrowing heavily from
other lenders. BCCI "did nothing unorthodox" in its
relationship with Zenith and eventually dropped Zenith as a
customer, a Zenith official says. Several customers,
including Coastal, said they either had repaid loans or
hadn't tapped their lines of credit in some time.
   In a few cases, there is disagreement over how customers
established their relationships with BCCI. Arthur Brown,
governor of the Central Bank of Jamaica, said that the U.S.
Commodity Credit Corp. chose BCCI to write letters of credit
for U.S. agricultural exports to Jamaica; a Commodity Credit
Corp. spokesman says that under rules of the program, the
importers choose the bank. Petrojam, the Jamaican oil
company, also relied on financing from BCCI.
   BCCI established many of its customer relations as a
result of its deep involvement in the Middle East. Korea
Heavy Industries  Construction Co., for instance, had a
$13.2 million payment guarantee from BCCI as a result of its
involvement in a Middle East construction project, a
spokesman says. Shell's borrowings were "of a short-term
nature for local operating purposes," a spokesman says.
   BCCI's controlling ownership by the ruler of Abu Dhabi
didn't hurt it. For instance, Abu Dhabi helped select BCCI to
write four $15 million letters of credit for Petrobras, the
Brazilian state-owned oil company, to finance oil exports
from the emirate to Brazil. BCCI's role, explains Antonio da
Silva Oliveira, a Petrobras finance official, was simply to
"fulfill a condition set by the Abu Dhabi National Oil Co."
   In some cases, letters of credit evolved into even more
meaningful relationships. In Jakarta, Indonesia, Barito
Pacific, a conglomerate that has recently become one of the
world's biggest timber companies, began using BCCI letters of
credit in 1986 and soon expanded its borrowing and placed
deposits with BCCI as well.
   Barito is headed by Prajogo Pangestu, who was little known
in Jakarta business circles until he expanded his plywood
interests and entered some new business ventures with
children of Indonesian President Suharto in the late 1980s.
BCCI's records show its credits to Barito total $244.3
million, although a company official insists the sum is less
than $200 million. He described all the company's dealings
with BCCI as "normal and legal."
   Although most of the loans appear perfectly ordinary, BCCI
itself was clearly nervous about some of them.
   Consider the $19.7 million in loans listed for Hart
Holdings, a partnership that invested in Colorado resort
property, California commercial sites and Texas apartment
houses. Other BCCI documents identify Sheik Saleh Kamil, a
Saudi billionaire, as a principal in Hart Holdings.
   In 1989, the bank shifted supervision of the account to
higher-ranking officials "in view of the global sensitivity
of relationships with above group," according to an internal
letter. A year later, one bank official expressed concern in
a memo that "any regulator" who reviewed the loan would find
problems. "BCCI should consider rebooking these facilities
outside the U.S.," the executive wrote.
   A financial adviser to Hart Holdings said the loans were
legitimate and that the partnership continues making interest
payments to BCCI's liquidators. As for BCCI, the adviser
said, "This bank is one of the most mismanaged banks I've
ever dealt with."