A Cheap Dollar Will Be Costly
   ----
   By John H. Makin
If Mr. Brady gets the strong U.S. economic recovery he has
been looking for during the past 18 months, he had better be
prepared for a sharp rise in the U.S. trade and current
account deficits and a strong dollar. If Bank of Japan
governor Yasushi Mieno wants to avoid a deeper recession than
the one already facing Japan he had better be prepared to let
the yen depreciate and see a rise in Japan's trade and
current account surpluses.
   The combination of a rising dollar and a rising U.S. trade
and current account deficit sounds odd to most currency
"experts." They claim that the true cause and effect
relationship is exactly the reverse: that a rising trade
deficit leads to a weaker dollar. But that textbook
relationship is wrong for a low saving country with
well-developed capital markets within a world of high capital
mobility -- i.e. for the U.S. Here, a strengthening dollar
accommodates a rising capital inflow by elevating its mirror
image, the current account deficit.
   When contemplating an American economic rebound, the
international "experts" at Treasury need to ask themselves a
simple question: What exchange rate between the dollar and
other foreign currencies will generate a U.S. current-account
deficit large enough to accommodate the capital inflows
required to support a surge in private investment? The
"accommodation" is required because a $400 billion federal
deficit absorbs about 60% of total domestic private saving.
   If U.S. investment is to rise by enough to fuel a recovery
without pushing interest rates to a level that will kill a
recovery, then capital inflows must rise. That means, by
definition, that the U.S. current account deficit must rise
by an equal amount. The U.S. excess demand for goods and
services on the current account must equal the U.S. excess
supply of borrowing instruments, the capital inflow. It is
that condition that defines the balance of payments, not a
zero trade deficit, as the Treasury seems to believe.
   Perhaps Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan can help.
He could explain to Mr. Brady that if he doesn't kick the
intervention habit and learn that trade surpluses are only
for strong economies with balanced budgets and high private
saving and not for would-be strong economies with huge budget
deficits and low private saving, he's going to make an even
worse mess of the Treasury's international policy than he has
already made of its tax and budget policies.
   Federal Reserve Board members, who should know better,
have expressed bafflement and frustration over the rise in
longer term interest rates since early January. If the Fed
colludes in a policy of pushing down the dollar it pushes up
real interest rates and expected inflation. Real rates rise
because a weaker dollar cuts expected capital inflows by
reducing the expected current account deficit. Smaller
capital inflows force U.S. investors to compete more
intensely for the domestic pool of saving and thereby push up
real interest rates. A weaker dollar promises higher prices
of imports and import substitutes so expected inflation
rises. Both higher real interest rates and higher expected
inflation push up market interest rates.
   Mr. Mieno, as governor of the Bank of Japan, presumably
does not wish to preside over an even worse recession than
the one Japan currently is entering. Nor would he or the
global economy be well served by another collapse of the
Tokyo stock market. Japanese consumption and investment is
dropping rapidly while fiscal stimulus is on hold as Japan's
politicians wrestle with endless scandals. A rise in net
exports is currently Japan's only recession cushion. Such a
rise should be welcomed by Treasury and Fed officials since
it means more capital inflows to help fund a U.S. economic
recovery.
   More broadly, an exchange-rate policy targeted on the
U.S.-Japan bilateral trade account, or on any bilateral trade
account, is stupid and counterproductive. It is stupid
because there is no reason to expect bilateral balance
between two countries and existing trade statistics wouldn't
measure that bilateral balance even if it did make sense to
try to seek it. It is counterproductive because the obsession
with the Japanese trade surplus with the U.S. is resulting in
policies that threaten a U.S. economic recovery.
   If the U.S. economy recovers and, as always, the trade
deficit widens, no one outside of Washington is going to
complain. They certainly didn't during the booming 1980s,
when the trade deficit was far larger than it is now. And if
the complainers, in Congress and elsewhere, really want the
U.S. to start running trade surpluses, they can save more and
advocate slower growth of the one half of federal spending
devoted to Social Security and Medicare/Medicaid benefits.
Good luck.
   ---
   Mr. Makin is a resident scholar at the American Enterprise
Institute and chairman of the Japan-U.S. Friendship
Commission.