Foreign Exchange:
   Dollar Tumbles as Investors Conclude
   Its Monthlong Advance Has Petered Out
   ----
   By Charlene Lee
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
"The market said, `Well, if the dollar's not going to go
higher, we might as well take profits rather than wait
another day,'" said Don Quattrucci, assistant vice president
for Connecticut National Bank. "It's tough to justify your
long {dollar} positions right now."
   In early trading Wednesday in Tokyo, the dollar was at
132.75 yen, down from 133.32 at Tuesday's close. The U.S.
currency also was trading at 1.6453 marks, down from 1.6527
marks on Tuesday.
   The dollar's decline began early Tuesday during the Asian
session when a speculative seller, widely believed to be Bank
Negara, Malaysia's central bank, stepped in to push the
dollar below 1.6600 marks. The move triggered some stop-loss
selling and snowballed into additional selling in Europe and
North America. Traders said the U.S. currency, which had
climbed since mid-February with only minor interruptions, was
ripe for a correction against its German and Japanese
counterparts.
   During the past two weeks, the dollar failed repeatedly to
sustain levels above 1.6800 marks and 135.00 yen, and players
grew wary of holding dollars. Last week, the dollar hit its
highs for the year at 1.6815 marks and 134.75 yen. The spurt
over 1.6800 marks was brief.
   While the release Tuesday of data on U.S. inflation,
housing starts and industrial production generally supported
the idea that the U.S. is slowly emerging from recession,
analysts said the numbers weren't bullish enough to overcome
investors' urges to cash in gains rather than test the
dollar's ability to advance further.
   The dollar "was already correcting . . . when the numbers
came in," said Earl I. Johnson, a vice president for Harris
Trust  Savings Bank in Chicago.
   The consumer price index rose a seasonally adjusted 0.3%
in February, in line with analysts' expectations, following
an increase of 0.1% in January. Excluding the more-volatile
food and energy components, the CPI rose 0.4% last month,
also in line with forecasts, after January's 0.3% rise.
   Also in February, housing starts rose a surprising 9.6% to
a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 1,304,000 units, the
Commerce Department reported. Last month's increase followed
a revised rise of 6.4% in January, to a 1,190,000-unit pace.
The January gain had been put at 5.5%. Analysts had expected
flat results for February.
   Industrial production rose a seasonally adjusted 0.6% last
month, according to the Federal Reserve Board. The February
increase followed a revised decline of 0.8% in January, which
previously was reported as a drop of 0.9%. Meanwhile, the
nation's industries operated at 78.2% capacity, up slightly
from January's revised rate of 77.9%. Capacity utilization in
January was initially estimated at 78%.
   "The fundamentals do support the dollar," said Harris
Trust's Mr. Johnson. "Probably by next week or so, the dollar
will be moving up again."
   Dealers said the dollar could slide to 1.6300 marks before
fresh buying emerges to reverse the downdraft. "I think
you'll see the market stick its head out around 1.6300-1.6350
marks, looking for some cheap dollars to buy," said Mr.
Quattrucci of Connecticut National.
   The mark strengthened across the board, with recent
inflation data reinforcing the belief that Germany's high
interest rates won't be eased soon. The mark firmed against
the yen as Japan's Nikkei index of 225 selected issues again
closed below 20000 points. On Tuesday, the Nikkei rose 80.47
points to 19917.63, after plunging 618.90 Monday to close
below 20000 for the first time in five years. Traders said
many players were reluctant to sell the weak yen for dollars
Tuesday and chose instead to sell the Japanese currency for
the mark.
   The mark also gained against sterling, which came under
added pressure on the heels of two new U.K. opinion polls
showing the opposition Labor Party with a five-point lead
over the ruling Conservatives. The polls, to be published in
the Times of London and the Guardian newspapers today, both
put Labor at 43% and the Tories at 38%. The new polls also
suggested that Labor could gain a nine-seat edge over the
Conservatives in the House of Commons.