Lost Right -- Freedom From Fear
   ----
   By Kati Marton
I am among the privileged city dwellers. I live in a
"good" neighborhood in New York. But what good is it to live
near Central Park if the park is an enticing but forbidden
combat zone? My kids don't need to tuck side arms under their
jackets to feel safe in their schools. But these distinctions
between neighborhoods and schools are rapidly blurring. We
have learned in our environmentally conscious age that
radioactivity over Chernobyl today means poisoned butter in
Stockholm tomorrow. But for the past decade Washington has
clung to the notion that a state of siege in "bad" (read
dispensable) neighborhoods won't infect "good" ones. Bullets
travel faster than fluorocarbons.
   During my childhood in Budapest, I always had the feeling
that someone was watching. That's the secret of the police
state: You never know whether your friend, colleague or
classmate is an informer. You tailor your movements
accordingly. Today, as I move around American cities (for I
refuse to give up my habit of walking), my face is frozen in
combat-ready hostility.
   Just as the Soviet model police state of my childhood bred
a permanent suspicion into my parents and grandparents, the
daily effort of city life is sapping my humanity. I cast a
hard eye at all who approach, frequently crossing over to the
other side of the street and even waving to non-existent
friends over the heads of menacing passersby. I duck into the
nearest florist or dry cleaner when two or more kids in
high-topped sneakers approach, and feel both embarrassed and
slightly ashamed. Perhaps they only wanted directions after
all?
   Yet it is not so much for myself that I fear. It is for my
children. When my 12-year old daughter asks if she can run
down to the mailbox (less than a block away) I pretend I also
have something to mail rather than let her go. My
nine-year-old son says only nerds ride the school bus in the
fifth grade. So next year I'll have two lumps in my throat
each morning, two kids taking off into the city on their own
each morning. Waiting for my daughter to get home from school
on a dark winter's afternoon I wonder, isn't this what we
came here not to feel?
   My kids were in a cab with me the other day when the
cabbie began to explain his pallor and trembling hands. He
described what it felt like, minutes before, to have four
teenagers with shotguns bang on his window while he waited
for a green light. This happened on the corner of Manhattan's
83rd and Park Avenue, but it could just as easily have taken
place in a "good" neighborhood in Denver, Houston or Los
Angeles. "So what did you do?" I asked the cabbie. He said he
had given them all his money. "When I learn to drive faster
than bullets," he said, "then I'll tell'em where to get off."
   How can I rejoice in the wonderful education my kids are
getting if that education prepares them for a ghettoized life
of the privileged-but-fearful upper middle class? You don't
need graphs or charts to see the gulf that separates that
class from the swelling American underclass. How high must
our politicians' hedges be to drown out the siren's wail? Or
have they quietly conceded the end of the social experiment
that brought families like mine here?
   My former country has flung off its old coat of terror.
The army of occupation has withdrawn, the secret policemen
have been pensioned off. Yet I have no wish to return to that
place. My home is here now. I love what this country stands
for. I am stumped, however, by our meekness as bigger and
bigger chunks of our freedom are gobbled up by forces of
violence. I remember the feeling from my childhood: that it
is only a matter of time before people like us catch the
capricious eye of the state terror machine. I feel something
similar now, walking the city streets I love, that it is only
a matter of time before it will be my own family's turn.
   ---
   Ms. Marton is a visiting scholar at Columbia University's
Media Studies Center, in New York.