Abreast of the Market:
   Cyclical Stocks May Have Replaced
   Appeal of `Momentum' Investing
   ----
   By John R. Dorfman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Sophisticated money managers often call momentum "relative
strength," meaning they buy stocks that are outperforming
others, regardless of the absolute gain or loss.
Unsophisticated investors like to buy stocks that are
"moving," or "hot." Call it what you will, they are buying
what has been going up.
   In 1991, momentum investing worked pretty well. But the
technique has an erratic long-term record and is difficult to
use properly. What's more, the tide may have turned against
momentum players last month, as cyclical stocks -- those that
rise and fall with the economy -- began to woo investors'
money away from steady-growth stocks.
   "In every bull market, people start believing in relative
strength," says New York investment consultant Suresh L.
Bhirud. "A stock goes up a couple of weeks in a row, and
people believe that it's going to go on forever."
   Carmine Grigoli, strategist for First Boston, declares: "I
think it's a big mistake to trade off relative strength." He
concedes the technique worked like a charm in December. But
his study from 1989 to the present (see table) shows that
momentum investing often produces uninspired results.
   "Taken to its extreme, relative strength implies that
rising stocks go to infinity," says Donald J. Peters, a money
manager at Geewax, Terker  Co. in Philadelphia. "It defies
reason."
   Over short time periods -- week to week and month to month
-- relative strength doesn't work at all, several studies
have found. For example, Mr. Peters studied the behavior of
about 600 growth stocks from June 1982 through January 1992.
Each month, he divided them into 10 groups based on one-month
price performance, then checked what happened the next month.
Buying the hottest stocks, he found, was a losing strategy:
They underperformed the average growth stock by about one
percentage point.
   Buying the "coldest" stocks worked better; they returned
about 0.7 point more than the average growth stock. Stocks in
between had intermediate returns, with "cool" stocks
outperforming "warm" ones. Mr. Peters concluded that stocks
overreact to adverse news, providing buying opportunities.
   But the opportunities are fleeting, and to take advantage
of them would require heavy trading, which might wipe out
most or all of the gains, Mr. Peters says.
   Relative-strength analysis works better over longer
periods, such as six months to a year. Mr. Peters studied
what would happen to people who buy six-month winners and
hold them six additional months. The top tenth of stocks
outperformed the average growth stock by about 2.7 percentage
points, while the bottom tenth continued to slump,
underperforming by 4.9 percentage points on average. There
was no pattern for the 80% of stocks in the middle groups.
   Mr. Peters's findings don't surprise John S. Brush,
president of Columbine Capital Services in Colorado Springs,
Colo. Mr. Brush has done several widely quoted studies on
relative strength, and he sells relative-strength information
to professional investors.
   Mr. Brush is careful to claim no miracles for the
technique. A simple version can enhance portfolio returns by
about one percentage point a year, he estimates. A more
subtle version, adjusting the numbers for stocks' volatility,
enhances returns by about 1.2 percentage points a year, he
says.
   His studies over the years agree with two key findings in
the recent Peters study. Six-month or 12-month measurements
are more useful than weekly or monthly ones, he says. And
there is indeed a "missing middle" in the data. The top 10%
of stocks generally go on to do well, and the 10% of worst
laggards usually keep struggling, but "there is very little
information in between."
   Mr. Brush also confirms the finding that price momentum
works in reverse on a one-month basis. The ideal stock, he
says, might be one that has risen strongly for 12 months,
then stumbled for one month.
   Value managers -- those who look for bargain-priced stocks
-- usually disdain momentum, Mr. Brush notes. "Value managers
say the lower the stock goes the more I like it." But he
believes they can enhance their performance by using
relative-strength analysis to avoid the bottom-performing 10%
of stocks.
   Professionals who use price momentum say it sharpens their
stock-picking skills when used in conjunction with other
techniques. But they caution that it is a prickly tool.
   "I am convinced that it is the best stock selection method
going," says Ned Davis, head of a Nokomis, Fla., market
research firm. "But it's got some negatives that make it not
suitable for everybody," frequent trading being one.
   "A handful of (stocks) that have gigantic moves account
for the outperformance," says Mr. Davis. "Your batting
average won't be all that good. You have to let your profits
run," hanging onto big winners like Microsoft and Amgen even
when they've risen a lot. "Most people can't stand it. They
want to take profits in the ones that go up that much."
   Mr. Davis adds that price momentum leads people into the
wrong stocks at the end of a bear market (gold and utilities,
for example). And "it almost never works in January," when
stocks depressed by December tax selling often rebound.
   Overall, though, relative strength works well in picking
industry groups, according to Mr. Davis's associate, Lance
Stonecypher. In the 10 years through 1991, he says, the
strongest-performing industries (based on an average of
four-week, 13-week and 26-week performance) went on to gain
7.9% per year (excluding dividends), while the weakest groups
went on to lose another 5.1%.
   Martin Zweig, a New York money manager who uses relative
strength as part of his stock-picking arsenal, adds another
caution: Relative strength is a poor guide to buying cyclical
stocks. "The best time to buy the cyclicals is when they're
on their butt, not when they're relatively strong," he says.
"If you wait for the cyclicals to get strong, they're up 50%
off their lows."
   The cyclical issue could explain why relative strength
performed poorly in January. According to a tally by Shearson
Lehman Brothers, chasing winners produced poor results in
January; investors would have done better chasing losers. By
Shearson's reckoning, momentum investors did badly from the
start of 1986 through September 1989, profited big in the
Gulf War rally of 1990-91, and then held onto their gains for
most of 1991.
   ---
   Friday Market Activity
                                                                                                       

   Stock prices edged slightly lower.
   The Dow Jones Industrial Average eased 0.45 to 3,280.19,
while the broader market sustained a greater loss. Standard 
Poor's 500-Stock Index fell 2.44 to 411.46 and the New York
Stock Exchange Composite Index slid 1.14 to 227.46. Decliners
outpaced advancers on the Big Board 1,083 to 944. For the
week, the Industrial Average gained 34.22, or 1.05%. Standard
 Poor's 500-Stock Index, however, fell 0.25% for the week,
while the NYSE Composite Index lost 0.31%.
   Big Board volume dropped to 260 million shares Friday from
Thursday's volume of 271 million shares.
   Cyclical stocks, which are expected to rise as the economy
recovers and have been favorites so far this year, bore the
brunt of Friday's selling. Among them: Aluminum Co. of
America dropped 1 1/4 to 69 3/4; Ashland Coal fell 1 1/4 to
34 and shares of Pittston Co., a mining and transportation
concern, fell 3/4 to 17 1/8.
   Caterpillar fell 1 1/2 to 50 3/4. The United Auto Workers
vowed to strike another of the heavy machinery maker's plant
Friday night. On Thursday, the union rejected the company's
settlement proposal for an ongoing strike.
   Shares of Unisys, a computer maker, declined 3/4 to 9 5/8
in heavy trading of 6.5 million shares, almost three times
its daily average. Financial columnist Dan Dorfman wrote in
Friday's USA Today that some analysts are advising clients to
sell the stock. Navistar rallied 1/8 to 3 7/8 after reporting
that its fiscal first-quarter loss narrowed to 16 cents a
share from 18 cents a year earlier, better than the loss of
20 cents projected in a survey of nine analysts by First
Call, a unit of Thompson Financial Networks. Westinghouse
added 3/4 to 20 3/8. County NatWest Securities analyst
Nicholas P. Heymann repeated its "buy" rating on the stock
Friday morning, explaining that the company should benefit
from an economic turnaround. Imcera Group surged 2 1/8 to 35
3/8. Yesterday, the company said it would resume the buy-back
program that it suspended in April. BankAmerica's shares rose
1 1/4 to 42 1/8. Merrill Lynch banking analyst Judah
Kraushaar repeated a "buy" recommendation on the stock. He
was unavailable for comment. NationsBank, formed by last
year's merger of CS/Sovran and NCNB, rose 1/2 to 45 1/2. The
bank priced an issue of seven million common shares late
Thursday at $45 apiece. Ohio Art Co., maker of Etch A Sketch,
Ghost Writer and other toys, soared 18 1/2 to 50 1/2. The
company reported record fourth-quarter earnings of $4.07 a
share, partly as a result of strong Christmas sales.
   ---
                 Hot Stocks Don't Stay Hot
                                                                                                       

   What would happen if each month you bought the stocks that
had performed best the previous six months? That technique
worked pretty well in 1991 but is unreliable, according to a
study by Carmen Grigoli of First Boston. Figures are for
about 700 stocks; dividends are included but commissions and
taxes aren't.
                                                                                                       

                                   Performance
 Stock Group             1991         1990        1989
                                                                                                       

 Hottest stocks          43.3%       -12.2%       30.3%
   (top quintile)
 Warm stocks             32.4        - 6.3        29.5
   (2nd quintile)
 Neutral stocks          40.2        - 8.9        31.7
   (average performers)
 Cool stocks             42.5        -10.0        24.8
   (4th quintile)
 Coldest stocks
   (5th quintile)        39.7        - 30.0       10.9