Whittle Wins a Round in Effort to Keep
   Channel One on the Air in Texas Schools
   ----
   By Gary Putka
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Opponents of Whittle and a spokesman for the board said
that the move effectively eliminated any chance that the
panel would ban the program. Channel One has come under
scrutiny in the state because its 12-minute news format
includes two minutes of paid advertising.
   Although some of the rules the board may consider could
hurt Whittle, of Knoxville, Tenn., Friday's action also made
it doubtful that any moves against Channel One would take
effect until next school year. The program airs in about
1,000 Texas secondary schools, which have about 865,000
students. Texas users make up about a tenth of the program's
national school base.
   "It's very positive from our point of view," said Tom
Pitman, a Whittle spokesman. "Whittle came out in good shape
and it seems like Channel One is safe."
   Since board discussion of a possible ban began in
November, many local school superintendents have spoken out
in favor of the program, which provides the free use of
televisions and other video equipment. The program is
effectively shut out of New York and has only limited
penetration in California because of state opposition to
commercialization of schools.
   Whittle's fight with its Texas opponents, which include
the state parent-teacher organization, parent activists, and
some state legislatiors, isn't over. Board of Education
members on Friday suggested rules that would include a
mandatory "opt out" provision for students who didn't choose
to watch the program. That could make Whittle's advertisers
edgy about viewership numbers, which have already been called
into question because the company doesn't use standard
verification services.
   Also suggested was a possible mandate that school
districts either move to enforce existing anti-commercialism
policies, or be compelled to hold public meetings to repeal
them. Whittle's opponents in Texas have contended that more
than 700 of the districts taking the program are doing so in
violation of their own policies forbidding commercial
endorsements in schools, but that parents are unaware of the
policies.
   "One good thing is that they may allow parents to have a
chance to come forward," said Sandra Kibby, a legislative
consultant to the Texas Congress of Parents and Teachers.
"But we haven't gotten rid of commercialism in the schools
yet."
   Whittle contends that local districts should be free to
opt for or against Channel One without state-level
interference.