ATT Sets Accord
   To Adapt, Sell
   Gear in Russia
   ----
   By John J. Keller
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
In its initial phase, ATT St. Petersburg will be supplied
by ATT Network Systems' factory in Huizen, the Netherlands,
near the overseas arm's European headquarters. ATT and its
Russian partner will then adapt the equipment to local
standards to work with Russia's antiquated phone system,
which stretches over 11 time zones. "The business potential,
given the country's size, is enormous," said a spokesman.
   Financial details of the agreement were sketchy. ATT's
spokesman described the initial investment as "relatively
small, a few million dollars." The first office will have 15
people. The partners are still trying to work out how ATT
can repatriate its profit from Russia, whose ruble currency
isn't yet convertible. "We're considering all kinds of
financing methods, including barter," the spokesman said.
   ATT said the partners will sell highspeed transmission
equipment. Later, they may do joint manufacturing, the
spokesman said.
   ATT has big plans for the former Soviet republics. It
recently signed a pact to build and operate a long-distance
phone network in Ukraine, as well as to supply equipment and
explore a joint manufacturing arrangement. It also opened
direct communications between Armenia and the U.S.
   But ATT isn't the first telephone company attracted by
business opportunities resulting from the fall of communism
in Eastern Europe and the former U.S.S.R. France's Alcatel
already operates joint manufacturing operations in Russia.
Canada's Northern Telecom Ltd. yesterday disclosed an
agreement to equip Czechoslovakia with data packet switching
equipment for a new public data network.
   None of these deals, however, call for state-of-the art
equipment such as ATT's sophisticated 5ESS digital phone
switch. The U.S.'s largest phone manufacturer used the
signing of the accord in St. Petersburg to renew its call for
the Coordinating Committee for Multilateral Export Controls,
which is controlled by the U.S. and its allies, to put the
Cold War behind it and lift restrictions on shipments of
high-technology gear bound for the republics.
   ATT's efforts in the former Soviet Union "should put ATT
ahead of its competitors in the race to sell phone equipment
in the republics," said H. Paris Burstyn, telecommunications
analyst at Business Research Group, a division of Cahners
Publishing Co., Newton, Mass. "Telephone penetration in the
country is very low, and the technology in use is out of the
1920s."