SportsTown, Megastore Operator,
   Files for 1.9 Million Share Offering
   ----
   By Neal Lipschutz
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
SportsTown, based in Norcross, Ga., runs "megastores," --
measuring as much as 68,000 square feet -- that offer sports
equipment, apparel and footwear.
   While in competition with a host of retailers, some much
larger, SportsTown significantly increased sales in each of
its five fiscal years of existence and showed net income for
the first time in the year ended Feb. 1.
   Sports retailing is in a "state of flux" with megastores
representing a "cutting edge" trend that may come to dominate
the business, says Tom Cove, director of Washington
operations for the Sporting Goods Manufacturers Association.
   While "specialists who give good service will always have
some market," general sports retailers are feeling pressure
to go to a big-store format, says Beth Sexer, managing editor
of SportStyle, a trade magazine covering the sporting goods
industry.
   SportsTown faces competition from a variety of sources --
department stores, discounters, specialty stores, mail-order
companies, and other retailers using the megastore format. It
currently operates 13 megastores in the Atlanta, Dallas-Fort
Worth and Houston metropolitan areas. Each SportsTown store
carries about 15,000 items typically organized into 16
specialty shops all under one roof. The company carries
products from more than 700 vendors.
   But officials think there is ample room to grow. "The
megastore format of sporting goods retailing is
under-represented nationally," the company's management said
in the offering's registration statement.
   The Sporting Good Manufacturers Association forecasts
wholesale sales of sports equipment, apparel and footwear
will total $33.14 billion this year, up about 5% from $31.6
billion in 1991.
   SportsTown Inc. opened its first store in Atlanta in 1987.
Annual sales have grown from $4.9 million in fiscal 1988 to
$88.1 million in fiscal 1992, ended Feb. 1. After recording
losses for each of its first four fiscal years, SportsTown
reported net income of $438,000 for fiscal 1992.
   Comparable store sales, those stores open at least one
year, increased 13.7% in fiscal 1992 on a 52-week basis after
a 2.3% increase in fiscal 1991. The company said its 1992
sales improvement was partly a result of "improvements in
merchandising, inventory management and pricing and
promotional strategies initiated in June 1990."
   But SportsTown isn't prepared to cede on the service
issue, either. The registration statement declares that its
"specialized customer service sets it apart" from
competitors. "Sales associates are carefully selected on the
basis of product knowledge, personal involvement with sports
and fitness, prior sales experience and personality."
   Jack Smith, president and chief executive officer of
competitor Sports Authority, says his company also empahsizes
service. The Kmart Corp. unit spends "a lot of energy
training people" and can provide "better service than the
mom-and-pop specialty shop," he says.
   Mr. Smith says the sports megastore format hasn't been
successful for all who have tried it. A key factor is the
ability to provide a full range of name brands, which he says
Sports Authority has been able to do partly because of
relationships with vendors. "If Reebok hadn't sold to us in
1987, we wouldn't be in business today," he says.
   SportsTown doesn't have direct relationships with Reebok,
Nike, Umbro and Starter, but purchases such products from
distributors or other suppliers.
   Sports Authority had sales of $241 million for the year
ended Jan. 29, 1992, with comparable store sales up 15.3%.
Sports Authority plans to open 20 stores in 1992, and has
budgeted for sales of $440 million this year.
   New York will be added to the roster of states with Sports
Authority stores in 1992 and Puerto Rico and California will
be added in 1993. "There's no market that we shy away from,"
Mr. Smith says.