Nerve-Growth Factors Brighten the Medical Horizon
   ----
   Marilyn Chase
Alzheimer's disease, causing dementia and death, afflicts
an estimated 3.5 million Americans. Hopes for treatment were
buoyed in the late 1980s by Fred M. Gage, a neuroscientist at
the University of California at San Diego. Dr. Gage taught a
group of senile rats to swim through a water maze. He then
treated half the rats with nerve-growth factor and the rest
with a placebo. After a 10-day rest period, the rats were put
through their aquatic paces again. Only the rats treated with
nerve-growth factor found their way through the maze.
   "In a variety of learning and memory tests, it was shown
infusions of nerve-growth factor into the brain could improve
learning capacity and increased the size of neurons that had
shrunken," says Dr. Gage. His findings galvanized
biotechnology companies.
   "The real excitement of those experiments is that they're
in a natural animal system caused by aging," says Frank
Collins, vice president of neuroscience at Synergen Inc., a
Boulder, Colo., company developing nerve-growth factor with
Syntex Corp. of Palo Alto, Calif. The Synergen-Syntex team
could begin human clinical testing in late 1993. Genentech
Inc. is also working on the factor.
   In Parkinson's disease, the brain cells controlling
movement tend to degenerate, causing tremors and weakness.
Now there is an animal model suggesting one new factor might
work to restore damaged cells. The observation grew from a
chemical mishap among drug addicts who used a "designer" drug
mimicking heroin. That drug was contaminated with a
neurotoxin, MPTP, that provoked quaking, jerky motions much
like those of Parkinson's. However, in monkey tests, nerve
cells were protected from MPTP by a protein called basic
fibroblast growth factor.
   Basic fibroblast growth factor is being pursued by Scios
Inc. (formerly California Biotechnology Inc.) of Mountain
View, Calif., and Chiron Corp. of Emeryville, Calif., in
collaboration with Johnson  Johnson. Synergen and Syntex are
investigating the protein for stroke patients and have
discovered another new protein for Parkinson's disease.
   Yet another new biotechnology product -- brain-derived
neurotrophic factor -- is aimed at salvaging the shattered
neurons of Parkinson's patients. This product is made by
Genentech and a collaboration of Amgen Inc. of Thousand Oaks,
Calif., and Regeneron Pharmaceuticals Inc. of Tarrytown, N.Y.
Those same companies are competing to develop still another
related protein called neurotrophin-3 as a possible candidate
to treat Alzheimer's and various kinds of nerve damage.
   The disease amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, which ended the
baseball career of the legendary Lou Gehrig, will soon be
targeted by another new growth factor. In the disease's final
stages, patients are hooked to a respirator, able to move
only their eyes. "The husband of one patient told me he's
kept her alive so she can receive this protein," says
Synergen's Dr. Collins. Tests of the substance -- called
ciliary neurotrophic factor -- are planned by Regeneron and
the Syntex/Synergen team. "We expect to be in the clinic by
mid-1992," a Synergen spokeswoman says.
   The difficulty with nerve-growth factor and its chemical
kin is that most of the molecules are large and unwieldy.
Unable to reach their target cells via tablets or normal
injections, they must so far be pumped directly into the
brain.
   "Alzheimer's, Parkinson's and Lou Gehrig's disease are
devastating, so it becomes contemplatable to plant a pump" in
the brain, says Dr. Collins. "If you simply forget the car
keys, it's debatable whether you want to do that."
   Eventually, new drug-delivery technologies like nasal
sprays may simplify treatment and enable doctors to dream of
early treatment or even prevention.
   ---
              Growth Factors in the Lab

   NERVE GROWTH FACTOR: Slated for clinical tests in
Alzheimer's disease by a collaboration of Syntex Corp. and
Synergen Inc.; also researched by Genentech Inc.
                                                                                                       

   BASIC FIBROLBLAST GROWTH FACTOR: Wound healing and
Parkinson's disease. Stroke and other diseases. Scios Inc.
(formerly California Biotechnology Inc.) and the
collaborations of Chiron Corp. with Johnson  Johnson and
Syntex Corp. with Synergen Inc.
                                                                                                       

   BRAIN-DERIVED NEUROTROPHIC FACTOR: Parkinson's disease.
Developed by Genentech Inc., and the collaboration of Amgen
Inc. with Regeneron Pharmaceuticals Inc.
                                                                                                       

   NEUROTROPHIN-3: Neuropathy or nerve damage due to trauma,
chemotherapy or diabetes; also Alzheimer's disease. Genentech
Inc., Amgen/Regeneron.
                                                                                                       

   CEP-427: A compound that stimulates the gene that triggers
production of nerve growth factor. Cephalon Inc.
                                                                                                       

   NEUROTROPHIN-4/5: In basic research targeting Alzheimer's
and Parkinson's. Genentech and Regeneron.
                                                                                                       

   CILIARY NEUROTROPHIC FACTOR: Lou Gehrig's disease.
Developed by Regeneron, and Syntex/Synergen.
                                                                                                       

   GLIAL GROWTH FACTOR: Peripheral neuropathy. Cambridge
Neuroscience Inc.
                                                                                                       

   GLIAL MATURATION FACTOR: Nerve injuries. Regeneron.
                                                                                                       

   (See related story: "Biotechnology: Scientists Work to
Slow Human Aging" -- WSJ March 12, 1992)