Marketing:
   Buoyant Sales of Lever 2000 Soap Bring
   Sinking Sensation to Procter  Gamble
   ----
   By Valerie Reitman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Lever Bros., a New York unit of the Anglo-Dutch Unilever
Group, has been lapping at PG's heels since it launched
Lifebuoy soap in 1895, 16 years after PG concocted Ivory.
But this is the first time Lever has overtaken PG for the
lead in any product category, despite a potent brand-name
arsenal that includes Wisk and Surf detergents and Final
Touch fabric softener. "It's an indication that Procter can
be beaten -- and we beat them," says Greg Creed, Lever's
soap-group manager.
   PG still sells more bars of soap, but Lever's brands cost
more. And with nationwide availability of Lever 2000, Lever's
supermarket soap sales rose 7% in the fourth quarter of 1991,
while PG's plummeted 11% over the same period last year,
according to Nielsen Marketing Research.
   "Lever 2000 found a niche that Procter and Dial left
vacant," says Gary Stibel, president of New England
Consulting Group, a market-research concern.
   Lever 2000, touted as the multipurpose family soap for
"2,000 body parts," also appeals to both sexes and through
advertising and sampling has convinced many households that
they can get by with one brand instead of the two or more
varieties they typically buy. "It's the one soap we can all
use," says Mary Beth Hageman of Havertown, Pa., who heard
about Lever 2000 through advertising and converted from
Safeguard and Zest.
   Ms. Hageman's skin is dry, her husband's is oily, and they
needed something gentle enough for their six-year-old son.
And she prefers Lever 2000's light fragrance. "A lot of soaps
smell the way men are supposed to smell," she observes. "Who
wants to go around smelling like a pine tree?"
   PG, which previously used the combination concept with
its Pert Plus shampoo and conditioner and Tide detergent with
bleach, isn't taking the Lever 2000 coup lightly. "When we
fall behind, it's almost always because we haven't done what
we needed to do" in the areas of research and meeting
consumers' needs, says Robert Wehling, vice president of
public affairs at PG. "When business is good in a category,
human nature dictates that you sit back and enjoy it instead
of aggressively marketing as if your life depended on it.
It's human nature that it often takes a crisis to yank your
chain."
   The Cincinnati consumer-products giant is attacking
Lever's lead with several new and reformulated products. It
is trying to reposition Safeguard, which had a 5.2% market
share last year and has long been viewed as a male soap. Now
PG has repackaged Safeguard, adding a Lever 2000-like slogan
-- "mild enough for the whole family" -- on the box and
describing what previously was called a "deodorant soap" as
an "anti-bacterial deodorant soap." But it hasn't changed the
formula or added any moisturizers.
   "It was time to upgrade the image in order to better
compete," says Debra Eisenberg, PG account manager at the
Gerstman  Meyers design-consulting firm. But Cynthia
Tokumitsu, a researcher at Packaged Facts, a market-research
concern, says: "I don't think Safeguard is a strong enough
product to make much of a dent. {Promotions} can keep the
brand treading water. But consumers remember those products
that are first or offer something different."
   Still, PG has also chosen Safeguard to make a second
entry into the rapidly growing $465 million liquid-soap
market, adding two versions of Liquid Safeguard (one with a
moisturizer) to a line that already features Liquid Ivory.
(Consumers generally use liquid soaps to wash their hands and
use bar soaps in the tub and shower.)
   PG is also evaluating results of a recently completed
test market of Safeguard Dry Skin, a bar designed to
counteract the drying effects of deodorizing soap.
   While it bets on Safeguard, PG also hopes to grab market
share with new products. Chief among these: an Oil of Olay
bar soap that trades on the company's powerful
moisturizing-lotion brand. The soap is designed to compete
with Lever's best-selling Dove brand, formulated with
moisturizing cream that Lever says won't "dry like soap." In
addition, PG hopes to boost Camay's tiny 2% market share
with a new reformulation that comes in three fragrances.
   Other Lever competitors are jumping on the all-in-one
bandwagon. Among them is Dial Corp., which makes the Dial,
Tone and Pure  Natural brands and trails Lever and PG with
a 19% market share. Dial's new product is Spirit, a soap it
bills as a three-in-one cleanser, moisturizer and deodorizer.
   As for Lever 2000, its maker says the new product's
formula has combined Shield's "deodorizing" properties and
Dove's moisturizing qualities to form "the mildest
antibacterial soap ever created."
   "This is the first time someone has done this combination
for the mass market," says David Steinberg, who teaches
cosmetic chemistry at Fairleigh Dickinson University in
Teaneck, N.J. But, he says, the bar's cleansing properties
are the same as those of any other "deodorizing" soap, a term
that simply indicates the presence of antibacterial agents
that temporarily kill odor-causing bacteria produced
primarily in the armpits. (While non-deodorizing soap also
does this, manufacturers claim the antibacterial agents keep
odor at bay longer.)
   "The antibacterial agent is absolutely not going to clean
you any better than any other soap," Mr. Steinberg says. "The
idea that you have body odor on your hands or face or that a
baby has body odor is absolutely ridiculous." (Deodorant that
you don't rinse off is much more effective than deodorant
soap in stemming odor, Mr. Steinberg says.)
   Whatever the actual or perceived properties of Lever 2000,
Lever Bros. is spending $25 million annually to advertise and
promote the new soap with sensual commercials showing a
couple and a baby and "some of the 2,000 body parts you can
clean" by using the product. And while the soap was recently
priced in a Pittsburgh grocery store at $1.59 for one
five-ounce bar, compared with four 3.5-ounce bars of Ivory
for $1.32 and two 4.75-ounce bars of Dove for $2.18, Lever
has offered waves of free samples and coupons.
   Soap sales haven't been very bubbly recently. Despite the
popularity of Lever 2000 and the 9% growth in liquid soaps
that now make up nearly 30% of the toilet-soap market,
overall soap sales have been essentially flat for the past
two years.
   In a market awash in coupons and discounts, many consumers
still buy whatever soap is on sale. Mr. Steinberg, the
cosmetic-chemistry teacher, says he has been buying Lever
2000 because, with his local supermarket doubling coupon
discounts, it's the cheapest soap in the store. The Consumer
Network, a consumer-research firm, says many shoppers are
trading down to lower-priced products. Office administrator
Nicki Sigel tried Lever 2000 but found it too expensive. "It
didn't seem to be worth the extra money," she says.
   Mr. Stibel, the marketing consultant, notes that "no one
has as much repeat business as they'd like, because coupon
values and retailer specials are so aggressive that it's
almost impossible to stay loyal to one brand."
   But Packaged Facts predicts that Lever's new soap and
rivals' new products, coupled with the growing popularity of
liquid soaps, will cause soap revenues to grow about 5%
annually for the next several years; that compares with 1%
growth in the past couple of years. In addition, many
industry-watchers see moisturizing soaps geared to men as a
big growth area. "It's a typical pattern," says Bonita
Austin, an analyst at Shearson Lehman Brothers. "There's a
quiet period, then somebody launches something, and there's a
flurry of activity."