REVIEW  OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   Statist Quo Redux
The latest Census data on public employment, out last
month, only take us through October 1990. But these numbers
reinforce the notion that right up to the moment the nation
hit its recessionary wall, many governments had the pedal to
the floor. No wonder there've been reports of such cutback
carnage lately.
   An unlucky 13 states showed increases of more than 5% in
the "fulltime equivalents," as these workers are known, on
their public payrolls in the single year leading up to the
Census survey. This is calculated on a per-capita basis, so
there can be no claim that population surges explain the
hiring of more personnel. The highest jump, at 7.9%, was
Michigan, suggesting why John Engler encountered such a mess
when he took over as Governor a few months later. (The U.S.
average was 1.5%.)
   The other most bulging bureaucracies were in Hawaii, 7.8%;
Idaho, 7.5%; and Nevada, 6.5%. It can be tricky to separate
state hiring alone from that of cities, counties and special
districts, because each jurisdiction divides responsibilities
differently, but such a breakdown suggests that the Nevada
leap was concentrated in the capital of Carson City. State
officials there socked the taxpayers with a big hit last
year, and are now doing layoffs.
   Illinois faced a severe fiscal diet this week; it's
therefore no surprise to find its state government putting on
some of the most pounds in 1990. Minnesota, ditto, and it
suffered a big tax increase last year. Down South, Alabama
and Louisiana have been fattening up; it's no surprise that
"tax reform" is hungrily sought in both. In Bill Clinton's
Arkansas, the public payroll grew 4.7% in the one year,
though most of that took place below the state level.
   A handful of states, most of them in New England where the
recession hit earliest, actually shrank their payrolls per
population. Too bad the rest of the country's leaders didn't
seem to see the storm spreading.
   The Labor Department's latest figures indicate that even
1991 didn't change habits in many places. Dave Kehler of the
Public Affairs Research Institute of New Jersey, which
follows this topic closely, says all the huffing and puffing
of Governor Jim Florio's newfound austerity has amounted to
400 layoffs. In reeling California, public-sector employment
was still growing at the end of last year.
   When the current crisis in government finance is over, it
will be worth another look at who really tightened their
belts. As of now, the hard evidence shows the flab remains.