Hard Rock Cafe Says
   New Restaurant
   Hits a Sour Note
   ---
   Cafe Co-Founder Charges
   That Planet Hollywood's
   Owners Stole His Idea
   ----
   By Richard Turner
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The Hard Rock Cafe empire, with outposts all over the
world, split into two uneasy factions in 1985, with Mr.
Morton in the West, and another group, now a unit of
Britain's Rank Organisation PLC, in the East.
   The "Planet Hollywood" operators, who claim Arnold
Schwarzenegger, Bruce Willis and Sylvester Stallone among
their investors, are part of the Eastern Hard Rock group but
are not owned by Rank. They opened the flagship restaurant --
which features such items as Mr. Schwarzenegger's motorcycle
jacket from "The Terminator" -- in New York to great fanfare
last fall, and have talked about bringing the franchise to
cities including Los Angeles, San Francisco and Las Vegas.
   Mr. Morton's lawsuit calls Planet Hollywood a low-quality
knockoff of the Hard Rock, and apparently objects to it
moving into his territory. He says Robert Earl, a restaurant
entrepreneur who is president of Planet Hollywood and of the
Eastern Hard Rocks, appropriated a number of "trade secrets"
from Hard Rock, and in applying them to Planet Hollywood was
breaching his fiduciary duty to Hard Rock. Mr. Morton
wouldn't comment.
   Reached in his office in Orlando, Fla., Mr. Earl denied
that any offer had been made to buy out Mr. Morton's Hard
Rock operations. He declined to comment further.
   Rank had tried to block Mr. Morton from building a planned
$75 million Hard Rock hotel/casino in Las Vegas, claiming
that the gambling connotation would tarnish the Hard Rock.
But in a recent arbitration proceeding in Los Angeles, the
panel ruled for Mr. Morton.
   Mr. Morton and a partner, Isaac Tigrett, founded the
original Hard Rock Cafe in London in 1971, selling hamburgers
amid rock music and memorabilia. It was an instant success,
and by the mid-1980s Hard Rocks were flourishing around the
world, with added cash flow from a merchandising operation
whose success was evident in its seemingly ubiquitous Hard
Rock T-shirts.
   In 1985, the two founders split. Mr. Morton kept the
Western U.S. operations, including Chicago, New Orleans and
certain foreign territories including Australia. His 11
restaurants now generate revenue of about $100 million
annually.
   Meanwhile, Mr. Tigrett tried to take his half public at
one point, and eventually sold out to Mr. Earl of Mecca
Leisure USA. Rank Organisation, a multibillion recreational
company in the U.K., then acquired Mr. Earl's company.