A Weekend
   With Buchanan's
   Brain Trust
   ----
   By David Frum
The sleek Reaganite conservatism of the 1980s and 1990s
has had little time for these people, but they are the
friends, admirers and mentors of Pat Buchanan. One of them
described the Herndon meeting as "the estates-general of the
Buchanan campaign." And indeed, it was a glimpse into the
world from which Mr. Buchanan's ideas spring. Mr. Buchanan
has been praising the John Randolph Club in print, agreeing
with it in a May column that "Before true conservatives can
ever take back the country, they are first going to have to
take back their movement."
   The weekend was supposed to have begun with an address by
Mr. Buchanan, but he had to cancel and so was replaced by
Thomas Fleming, editor of Chronicles magazine. Mr. Fleming's
speech grimly equated George Bush's "New World Order" with
Hitler's plans for world domination: "Whether they are based
on racial superiority, on class struggle, or on human rights,
all internationalisms come down to the same thing:
nationalize resources, centralize power within a nation, and
expend lives and resources in a fruitless crusade to make the
world what we would like it to be. And what is true of Lenin,
Hitler and {Woodrow} Wilson is equally true of George Bush."
   Instead, Mr. Fleming proposed a "new nationalism" that
would "protect us from criminals, defend our borders from a
continuous invasion of illegal immigrants, and compete on an
equal footing with the ultimate winners of the Second World
War, Germany and Japan."
   This might seem hard to reconcile with the libertarian
objection to limits on individual freedom. The libertarian
faction of the club, however, showed a surprising readiness
for compromise. "Wouldn't you agree," libertarian Llewellyn
Rockwell asked a panelist who had criticized Mr. Buchanan's
protectionism, "that Mr. Bush's trade policies are aimed at
world government, world managed trade and world central
banking, which makes whatever few tariffs Buchanan wants to
impose look pretty trivial?"
   The traditionalists, meanwhile, have adopted the
libertarians' mistrust of the U.S. government. Syndicated
columnist Joe Sobran observed that "the United States
government has probably killed more people outside its own
borders than any other. Or am I missing something?"
   But the danger posed by Americans to the outside world is
as nothing compared to the danger the outside world poses to
America. Mass third-world immigration, worried Washington
Times columist Sam Francis, is "the principal cultural threat
to American nationality." The movement behind the Buchanan
candidacy must "define our national commonality -- what it
includes and what it excludes."
   One thing Buchananism certainly excludes, all the
conferees agreed, is yesterday's observation of the birthday
of "Mr. Martin Luther King" (as they pointedly called the
late civil rights leader in reference to allegations that he
plagiarized parts of his doctoral dissertation). "I do not
agree with the argument," Mr. Fleming said, "that white
Americans somehow owe blacks a free ride because of what
their great-grandparents supposedly suffered under slavery."
   The definitive statement of what binds traditionalists and
libertarians together, however, was offered by Murray
Rothbard, a libertarian and the Randolph Club's new
president, at dinner on Saturday night. The Randolph Club, he
said, is an attempt to revive the isolationist and anti-New
Deal Old Right of the 1930s and early 1940s.
   That right had been decimated not, as is commonly thought,
by Pearl Harbor, but by the appearance on the scene of
William F. Buckley and National Review in the early 1950s:
"One after another, Buckley and National Review purged and
excommunicated all the radicals, all the non-respectables.
Consider the rollcall: isolationists . . . anti-Zionists,
libertarians, Ayn Randians, the John Birch Society, and all
those who continued, like the early National Review, to dare
to oppose Martin Luther King and the civil rights revolution
even after Buckley had changed and decided to embrace it."
   But, Mr. Rothbard said happily, better times are coming:
"The original right, in all its heresies, is back] . . . Pat
Buchanan's race for the presidency has changed the face of
the right wing. . . . He has created a new radical or hard
right very much like the original right before National
Review. For all their wealth, media influence, and seeming
power, it is now the official conservatives and the
neoconservatives who are on the periphery."
   In Mr. Buchanan, the sort of conservatism represented by
the John Randolph Club has for the first time since Barry
Goldwater found itself a champion. If his campaign prospers,
so will it. As for the Reaganite conservatism of free trade,
active foreign policy and non-racialism -- well, to the glee
of the members of the John Randolph Club, that sort of
conservative now seems to have no choice but glumly to
support Mr. Bush for four more years.
   ---
   Mr. Frum is an assistant features editor on the Journal's
editorial page.