Chrysler's
   Vice Chairman
   Abruptly Quits
   ----
   By Bradley A. Stertz
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Company insiders said the memo, among other things,
complained about Mr. Iacocca's failure to establish a firm
succession plan. Mr. Miller declined to comment on the memo's
contents. However, he did say he thought Chrysler needed to
build for the future around a strong management team.
   The company "needs a team of executives who get along well
together, instead of having such dramatic focus on one
leader," Mr. Miller said in an interview yesterday. "Chrysler
will never again enjoy having a leader with {Mr. Iacocca's}
charisma and forceful personality."
   Mr. Miller was Chrysler's "point man" in negotiating with
the company's bankers and government regulators in its
desperate quest to survive a decade ago. Now he becomes the
last departee among the original "Gang of Ford" executives
who followed Mr. Iacocca from Ford Motor Co. to Chrysler in
the late 1970s and early 1980s.
   The departure of Chrysler's top finance executive does
little to clear up Chrysler's succession puzzle. Indeed, in
commenting on Mr. Miller's resignation, Mr. Iacocca said that
while Mr. Miller "was one of several outstanding candidates
under consideration" to become the next chairman, "the
selection process will continue unchanged."
   President Robert A. Lutz is now the primary internal
candidate to succeed Mr. Iacocca. But the two executives have
had their disagreements in the past. Moreover, it's unclear
how well Mr. Lutz, an acknowledged product whiz, would handle
Chrysler's complicated and vexing financial issues.
   As a result, Mr. Miller's departure might open the door
for the return of Gerald Greenwald, former heir apparent and
vice chairman. Like Mr. Miller, Mr. Greenwald made his name
on the financial side of Chrysler's operations. His
resignation in 1990 to accept a $9 million offer to lead the
unsuccessful union attempt to buy UAL Corp. left Mr. Iacocca
bitter. But the two men recently have patched up their
differences, say people familiar with the situation.
   Instead of steering the auto maker's future, Mr. Miller
now will become an investment banker. He signed on as a
senior partner with James D. Wolfensohn Inc., a small but
influential New York firm. The firm's chairman is former
Federal Reserve Board Chairman Paul A. Volcker, and it lists
among its clients Germany's Daimler-Benz AG, Du Pont Co. and
American Express Co.
   Mr. Miller said he became close friends with James
Wolfensohn, the firm's founder and president, when they
traveled extensively together to arrange Chrysler's loan
guarantees in the early 1980s. Mr. Wolfensohn was in charge
of the Chrysler account for Salomon Brothers Inc. at the
time.
   Mr. Miller said the opportunity to join Mr. Wolfensohn
arose about a month ago, although the two have discussed the
idea in the past. Mr. Miller said he cemented his decision
Friday after spending the week talking to Mr. Iacocca and
most of Chrysler's outside board members.
   "This is the kind of work I most enjoyed doing with
Chrysler," Mr. Miller said. "I felt I'd already made my
contribution at Chrysler. The major work of turning the
company around in the 1990s is done."
   Chrysler will launch this year three new vehicles,
including its first new sedans in over a decade.
   Only a month ago, Mr. Miller didn't seem ready to end his
Chrysler career. In a recent employee gathering, Mr. Miller
played down rumors of his imminent departure by saying he
planned to stay with the auto maker for the long haul. And in
an interview that the Detroit Free Press published earlier
this month, he said: "The current team at the top, Bob {Lutz}
and I in particular, and the other senior guys are anxious
and capable of running this company for the next half dozen
years."
   Even after leaving March 31, Mr. Miller will still play a
role at Chrysler. Mr. Iacocca said he asked Mr. Miller and
the Wolfensohn firm to "serve in an advisory capacity"
throughout negotiations with bankers for the auto maker's
Chrysler Financial Corp. subsidiary. Mr. Miller had been
leading the talks for Chrysler aimed at replacing $3.7
billion of the finance arm's borrowings this year.