Securities Concerns Step Up Incentives
   To Keep Brokers From Job-Hopping
   ----
   By Michael Siconolfi
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Smith Barney, Harris Upham  Co. is the latest big
brokerage firm to adopt the trend. Starting this month, the
Primerica Corp. unit will withhold 1% of its brokers'
commissions for four years, according to an internal Smith
Barney memo. After that time, brokers will receive the
withheld commissions, plus a small bonus. The directive at
Smith Barney follows various deferred-pay plans at Merrill
Lynch  Co., Shearson Lehman Brothers Inc. and PaineWebber
Group Inc., among others.
   The aim, of course, is to keep brokers focused on the
longer term. Broker turnover historically is quite heavy;
often 20% of Wall Street brokers bolt their firms in a single
year. Brokerage firms are determined to keep brokers from
moving, particularly as they continue to dole out fat
up-front bonuses to lure new brokers. And keeping brokers is
especially important now that brokerage firms are actively
hiring again as small investors get back in the markets.
   Generally, the plans could be good news for investors.
When brokers leave, a fight often erupts for the broker's
book of clients. Brokers try to keep their customer lists;
firms often take steps to keep them. And when investors hold
proprietary, or in-house, mutual funds, the situation gets
sticky because firms often make it difficult to transfer
these investments to another firm.
   Here's how the Smith Barney plan works: Starting this
year, brokers who generate more than $150,000 in annual
commissions will have 1% of their commissions withheld for
four years. After then, Smith Barney will give brokers a
bonus of 50% of their 1992 deferred pay.
   The firm also will give brokers bonuses if they remain
more than three years and meet certain production goals, and
more if they bring in big amounts of customer assets or large
additions to proprietary mutual funds.
   The Smith Barney plan is a twist on deferred compensation
plans launched last year by Merrill and Shearson. At Merrill,
every broker will receive a Merrill "investment certificate"
worth $100,000. The certificates mature in 10 years. At that
time, brokers who have met certain performance goals and who
haven't had major compliance problems will be eligible to
receive the payment.
   At Shearson, brokers who stay at the firm for five years
will be eligible to receive a bonus equal to 4% of their
gross revenue production, up to $80,000. But brokers won't be
eligible if they have abused clients or don't meet certain
production goals.
   "If you build your business and run it in a professional
way, you'll be around to pick up your deferred compensation,"
said Joseph J. Plumeri, president of Shearson's private
client group.
   At PaineWebber, brokers can earn as much as 2% of their
commissions if they remain for at least three years and
produce a minimum of $300,000 in annual commissions.
   "It's not big enough to call it a `golden handcuff,'" said
Joseph Grano, president of PaineWebber's brokerage
operations. "What it really is is a recognition of loyalty
and longevity."
   Some smaller firms already have similar programs in place.
Raymond James Financial Inc., a St. Petersburg, Fla.,
regional brokerage firm, credits 3% of its brokers'
production for those who generate more than $150,000 in
annual commissions. Brokers can't get a hold of this money
for eight years, and get the full amount only when they
retire. The plan "acts as a deterrant for broker's movement,
and it's a nice little bonus for them to take," said Thomas
A. James, chairman.