Rohr Says It Expects Indictment Soon
   In U.S. Inquiry Into Testing Procedures
   ----
   By Roy J. Harris Jr.
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Among Rohr's projects in Riverside is the production of
parts for the Navy's F-14 fighter and the giant Air Force C-5
transport. Rohr, which acknowledged last year that it was
cooperating with an investigation by the Defense Department
and the U.S. attorney, said it had "recently learned
information regarding various acts of employees" that might
lead to prosecution, but didn't believe the acts "had an
adverse effect on the safety or utilization of its products."
   The company, based in Chula Vista, Calif., said potential
fines and damages requested by the government "might be
substantial" if it is prosecuted. It listed possible results
such as "suspension and debarment proceedings" by the U.S., a
standard government response to a company's indictment. In
addition, it said the government "might attempt to terminate
existing contracts, including a termination for default."
   Rohr said the Riverside investigation "apparently concerns
the production of parts, the recording of information which
is a part of the product process, and the company's testing
practices utilized for many programs."
   A company spokesman said some employees have been
reassigned as a result of an internal inquiry at Riverside.
   In a letter distributed to Rohr employees, Chairman Robert
H. Goldsmith said he was "personally embarrassed" by the
results of that investigation. He said, "We have experienced,
in some cases, employees not being forthright in answering
the questions of attorneys we retained to perform our
internal investigation."
   The letter said Rohr believes employees aware of
"prosecutable misconduct decided not to report such acts
because of not wanting to get other employees in trouble." It
said some problems "may have been due to employee conclusions
that the requirements for entering data were unnecessary and
involved technically obsolete testing procedures," adding
that Rohr doesn't support that philosophy.
   Rohr's announcement was made after the stock market
closed. In trading on the New York Stock Exchange, the stock
rose 12.5 cents to $20.125.
   In the fiscal year ended last July 31, Rohr reported net
income of $30.5 million, or $1.74 a share, on sales of $1.39
billion, from its work designing and producing a range of
complex components for commercial and military aircraft.
   In a separate item in a company news release, Rohr said
the Air Force had issued a "show cause" order requesting Rohr
to explain why late delivery of four pylons for the C-5
program shouldn't be grounds for terminating its contract.
Last year, Rohr said both it and the U.S. were considering
breach-of-contract claims in the dispute. It added that it
assumed the matter would be "amicably resolved."
   Rohr said the contract in question calls for delivering
206 spare pylons -- parts that attach engines to the wings --
which are on order for delivery through 1993. About $35.9
million in Rohr sales resulted from the contract for its last
fiscal year, Rohr said, with only $2.7 million received so
far this fiscal year because of problems it has experienced
delivering them. The company spokesman didn't say how
profitable the operation had been.
   If the contract were terminated for default by the Air
Force, Rohr said, consequences could include Rohr's having to
pay the difference between its costs and a new contractor's
higher costs, along with contract-transferral costs. Rohr
said it "has satisfactory reasons for the non-delivery of
these four pylons," and the company spokesman said it is
preparing a claim for damages against the government's
inspection office, alleging that "increased inspection
criteria" had reduced Rohr's ability to deliver pylons to
Lockheed Corp., maker of the C-5, or to the Air Force.