Olympia  York Offers U.K. Investors
   Stake in London Canary Warf Project
   ----
   By Neil Barsky
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
If the offering, which allows Olympia to borrow at below
market rates, is a success, officials said they may finance
other buildings in similar fashion. Under the plan, Olympia
will essentially lease the building to holders of the trust,
but will retain an option to buy the lease back after 12
years. Also, investors in the trust are guaranteed to get
their principal back after 10 years.
   Olympia executive Michael Dennis denied that the plan was
a result of financial problems at the real estate
development. Canary Wharf was conceived in the mid-1980s,
during a time of boundless growth in London real estate.
Since then, the city has been gripped by a recession and
overbuilding, and the project has been hampered by slow
leasing and poor transportation links to the city of London.
   Since the first phase was completed last year, however,
the 71-acre project has received favorable notices from
tenants and architecture critics who praise the modern office
environment. Paul Reichmann, the chief strategist for what is
the world's premier real estate company, has repeated his
unwavering belief in the project's ultimate success.
   Mr. Dennis said that when Olympia, which is owned by the
Reichmann family of Canada, committed to the project in 1987,
they were relying on the availability of tax-advantaged
financing plans such as this one.
   Olympia will pay buyers of the trust 7.3% annually, but
available tax breaks make the return for buyers of the trust
closer to 12%, Mr. Dennis said.
   Olympia is marketing the trust to individual investors
instead of institutions because the recession in Britain has
taken a big bite out of corporate profits, Mr. Dennis said.
As a result, few institutions have the earnings to write off
by purchasing the enterprise trust.
   The building, at 10 Cabot Square, is only about 30%
leased. But the offering has two elements that should make
British investors feel secure, Mr. Dennis said. Interest
payments are guaranteed by Olympia's U.K. Holding company.
Also, trust holders have a "put" option to sell the lease
back to Olympia for what they paid for it. That option is
backed by Morgan Guaranty.
   "This is an intelligent way for Olympia  York to access a
broad sector of the capital market," says Steven Karpf,
executive vice president of Eastdil Realty, a New York real
estate finance firm. "It means Olympia has effectively
borrowed money at 400 basis points lower than what normal
debt financing would be."
   Within the next two years, the Canadian conglomerate must
refinance a 500 million pound ($876 million) construction
loan. Also, the company must raise about 130 million pounds
to finance a building currently occupied by Morgan Stanley 
Co. Litigation has broken out between the two companies over
how much time Olympia has to raise that money. The remainder
of the project's cost has been borne by equity supplied
through Olympia's credit lines or cash.
   So far, Olympia has raised about 50 million pounds in
permanent financing on an office tower in which Texaco Co. is
the major tenant. Mr. Dennis said the project is currently
just under 60% leased.