Marketing  Media -- Advertising:
   New Jeep to Roll Out With Ads
   In Controversial `Infiniti' Style
   ----
   By Jacqueline Mitchell
Nature might have been patient, but what about consumers?
Teaser campaigns can build early interest in a new vehicle --
unless, that is, they continue too long. Nissan Motor's
Infiniti luxury division continued its ads, well, ad
infinitum, with scenes of pussy-willow buds, rocks and the
like. Later, General Motors' Saturn subsidiary started up
with advertising that talked about the car for months before
actually showing it.
   Chrysler officials, who unveiled the commercials at the
Chicago Auto Show, vow that they won't follow their
competition in extending the mystery too long. Ads showing
the new Grand Cherokee will appear in March, a month before
the vehicle rolls into Chrysler's dealerships. Some of the
advertising also will show a familiar face: that of Chrysler
Chairman Lee Iacocca pitching the new Jeep, and the new $1
billion assembly plant Chrysler built in a dilapidated
Detroit neighborhood to produce it, Chrysler says.
   The Grand Cherokee ad that will feature Mr. Iacocca is
only part of Chrysler's new corporate advertising campaign,
which Chrysler also will launch during the Winter Olympics.
The 60-second televison spots created by Chrysler's corporate
ad agency, Bozell, are part of a series of ads that will run
through the next 18 months.
   Mr. Iacocca will talk about the new products Chrysler
plans to launch this year, and the investments Chrysler has
made in the company. The ads will show the new mid-sized
sedans due out later this year.
   The initial Grand Cherokee advertising "is to make people
aware that there is a new Jeep vehicle," said Lawrence W.
Baker, general manager of the Jeep and Eagle divisions. "Over
the last 50 years of Jeep's history, there have only been
about eight major product introductions."
   Chrysler has a lot riding on this launch. The new Jeep
Grand Cherokee is the first is a series of new products the
auto maker will bring out this year. But Chrysler no longer
dominates the sport-utility market as it once did. Ford
Motor's Explorer has knocked Chrysler's aging Cherokee out of
the box as the nation's top-selling off-road vehicle.
   Moreover, Chrysler could have a tough time trying to sell
the new Jeep Grand Cherokee alongside the current,
lower-priced Cherokee. The new Jeep Grand Cherokee will have
a starting base price of $18,980. The top-of-the-line Limited
model will have a starting base price of $27,433. The current
Cherokee has a beginning base price of about $15,000.
   Chrysler once dominated the sport-utility market. Between
1987 and 1989, Cherokee sales soared 43% when sport-utility
vehicles were becoming suburban yuppie-mobiles. But in 1991
Cherokee's sales dropped 2.7% from a year earlier, and the
vehicle's share of the sport-utility market remained
virtually unchanged at 13.4% Explorer sales, meanwhile, rose
37.6% last year to give it 27.5% of the sport-utility market.
   "In the last year, we've found ourselves having to share a
market we once owned," Mr. Baker said. "The advertising
campaign for Grand Cherokee is designed to let us recapture
`Jeep Country.'"
   Some Chrysler officials think the Grand Cherokee has
already been hidden away too long. Since last year Chrysler
has been giving reporters sneak previews of the midsized LH
sedans it will launch this fall. But it only recently offered
peeks and drives of the Grand Cherokee.
   The reason: to keep the new Grand Cherokee, which won't
make its debut until April 19, from robbing sales from the
current Jeep Cherokee. "The Jeep Cherokee will continue to be
our volume vehicle this year," Mr. Baker said. "We will not
abandon it for the Grand Cherokee."
   He added that there are combined customer rebates and
dealer incentives of about $3,100 on the current 1992 Jeep
Cherokee model. And Chrysler is planning a campaign for the
fall to reposition the current Cherokee "at the lower end" of
the sport-utility market.
   The new Jeep Grand Cherokee is larger and more luxurious
than the current Cherokee, and has a driver's side airbag and
anti-lock brakes as standard equipment. The current Cherokee
doesn't have such amenities, but may appeal to younger buyers
who are more outdoor-oriented.
   At least that's what Chrysler hopes. When Ford tried to
sell two versions of the Escort -- an old one and a new one
-- side-by-side two years ago, buyers walked away from both
models.
   Among Chrysler's other Winter Olympics ads, two will
present the results of a research firm's survey asking 200
owners of two-door Ford Escort, Toyota Tercel, Nissan Sentra
or Chevrolet Cavalier, all 1988-1991 models, to compare their
cars with Chrysler's Dodge Shadow and Plymouth Sundance.
Chrysler said 134 of the 200 surveyed preferred the Shadow
and Sundance over the other models.
   Advertising Age reports that Chrysler is spending some $50
million to advertise during the Winter Olympics. A Chrysler
official wouldn't confirm the amount, but said, "The number
of spots we're running is in the hundreds."
   ---
   Olympics Battle
                                                                                                       

   American Express drew fire from a top International
Olympic Committee official in Albertville, who blasted the
company for "trying to diminish the competitive advantage of
Visa" with ambush Olympic marketing.
   American Express, which isn't an Olympic sponsor, broke
ads this week that show the French Alps and refer to the
"winter fun and games." The company's archrival, Visa,
continues its long-standing reminder that at the Olympics,
"they don't take American Express" -- bragging rights for
which it paid an estimated $20 million, by becoming an
Olympic sponsor.
   The IOC official, Richard Pound, held out the possibility
of "legal action" to stop American Express from creating the
impression that it too sponsors the Olympic Games. At a news
conference, he referred to "pending litigation," which he
later explained was a reference to a suit the French Olympics
committee had filed over alleged infringements in an Olympics
visitors' guide and card-member magazine produced by American
Express. That suit was decided earlier this week, American
Express said, in a summary judgment permitting the company to
distribute the guides but not the magazine. Mr. Pound said he
has never seen American Express's television commercials.
   For its part, American Express pointed the finger at Visa.
"They've made a regular practice of using the Olympics to
launch misleading attacks against American Express," a
spokesman said. "It's a tradition for them, and the IOC
stands idly by and lets them."
   ---
   More Saatchi Shuffles
                                                                                                       

   Longtime Saatchi executive Jeremy Sinclair was named
co-chairman and executive creative director of Saatchi 
Saatchi Advertising Worldwide, overseeing the agency's
creative work on both sides of the Atlantic.
   Mr. Sinclair, the creative executive credited with putting
a "pregnant" man in a contraception promotion, retains his
title as group deputy chairman of the agency's parent,
London-based holding company Saatchi  Saatchi PLC. He also
becomes the fifth member of the Saatchi agency's board,
joining Chairman Edward L. Wax, Chief Executive Officer
Robert Kennedy, Vice Chairman Dick O'Brien and Chief
Financial Officer William Cochrane.
   The agency also formed a European executive board to
oversee its European operations, including chief executives
from the agency's offices in the U.K., Italy, France and
Germany. The board reports to Mr. Wax. The changes are the
latest in a recent spate of reorganizing at Saatchi, in which
Mr. Wax was named chairman and international head Richard
Humphreys abruptly departed two weeks ago.
   ---
   Ad Note. . . .
                                                                                                       

   AMERICAN EXPRESS REVIEW: Young  Rubicam unit Wunderman
Worldwide won more business from American Express in Europe,
landing the assignment for a pan-European campaign aimed at
service establishments. Wunderman's expanded role has no
effect on WPP Group's Ogilvy  Mather, the agency for
American Express's personal card in Europe, an American
Express spokeswoman said. Billings couldn't be determined.