PEOPLE PATTERNS
   ----
   By Alan L. Otten
TEACHER shortages, once expected for the 1990s, won't
materialize, Rand Corp. researchers predict.
   Several factors had led educators to anticipate a scramble
for elementary and secondary school teachers: a projected 7%
increase in the student population during the decade, high
levels of teacher attrition, declining enrollment in college
education courses and enlarged opportunities for women in
other fields.
   But despite growth in the student body, Rand says, there
will be enough teachers to go around. An exhaustive analysis
of practically all Indiana school teachers from 1965 to 1988
finds attrition rates are lower now than at any time during
the years studied.
   Higher real salary levels are one cause, but there are
others. A high proportion of current teachers are in the
35-to-55 age range, when attrition rates are low in any
occupation. More women than expected are entering teaching;
the lure of other areas apparently has had less impact than
anticipated. Fewer women are leaving to have families than
used to be the case, and those who leave are returning more
quickly.
   To offset shrinking enrollment in college education
courses, school officials are tapping other sources: young
college graduates who didn't major in education, older women
wanting to enter teaching for the first time and experienced
teachers seeking to return after a break for family concerns
or other careers.
   Though the study was confined to Indiana, the Rand
researchers are confident the same underlying trends exist
nationwide. They caution, however, that some school districts
may have shortages of minority or bilingual teachers or
teachers in such specialties as math and science.
                                                                                                       

   Genetic Job Screening
   Finds Little Support
                                                                                                       

   GENETIC screening in the workplace is overwhelmingly
rejected by the public, a university sociologist reports.
   Two large national surveys, one in 1990 and the other in
1991, used almost identical questions to ascertain attitudes
about an employer's right to use genetic testing to screen
prospective employees for inherited tendencies to cancer and
certain types of heart disease. Analyzing the results,
Columbia University's Eleanor Singer finds the public, by
roughly nine to one, disapproves of the idea that employers
should be able to give such tests to job applicants or refuse
to hire anyone whose test results show an inherited
predisposition to these diseases.
   Roughly three out of five respondents in both surveys also
reject the idea that the employer should be able to refuse to
hire workers whose tests showed an inherited tendency to
cancer even if they might be exposed to cancer-causing
materials on the job. And what if a company offers its
already-hired workers a genetic screening test for certain
types of cancer -- should the results go to the employer?
Almost three out of four Americans say only the workers
themselves should get the test results.
   Dr. Singer says work-based genetic screening receives its
most favorable response among older people, blacks, and those
with low income and less education. But she believes that
"the degree of consensus evoked by these questions is
remarkable," particularly since the public seems to disagree
on many other applications of biotechnology.
                                                                                                       

   At Least They Had Time
   To Answer the Survey
                                                                                                       

   RAT RACE update: Two earner couples with kids are the most
likely to think they're caught in it, says the Roper
Organization.
   A poll question describes the rat race as being "so busy
trying to keep up with their jobs or running the household
that they don't really have much time to enjoy life." About
one in three respondents say they personally feel that way,
just about the same proportion as in 1978 and 1983 when the
question was previously asked.
   But a higher number of all two-earner couples -- about 49%
-- and two-earner couples with children -- 55% -- answer
affirmatively. There was no comparable breakout in the
earlier surveys.
   Moreover, 41% of what Roper calls trend-setting Americans
-- people involved in many organizations and other social and
political activities -- say they now feel the pressure, an
increase of 11 percentage points since 1978. Perhaps, the
Roper people say, it's this group's disproportionate impact
that explains "why we hear more about the `rat race' today."
   Fewer people than in the earlier polls, however, now say
they have made some move to relieve the pressure: only 29% of
current respondents, down from 40% in 1983 and 36% in 1978.
More than two-thirds of those who say they have done
something about it have changed jobs, cut back work hours or
otherwise eased their workload. Some say they have tried to
counter the rat race feeling by getting into a regular
exercise routine, seeking counseling, turning to religion or
moving to a slower-paced part of the country.
                                                                                                       

   Odds and Ends
                                                                                                       

   HAVING a gun in the home doubles the chances that a
psychologically troubled teen-ager will commit suicide,
reports a medical team led by David Brent of the Western
Psychiatric Institute in Pittsburgh. . . . Children in
families on welfare are twice as likely to receive routine
medical care as children in poor families not on welfare,
according to a study by Child Trends, a Washington-based
nonprofit research group. In most instances, of course, the
publicly financed Medicaid program provides the care for
those on welfare.