Who's News:
   Salomon Brothers Taps John P. Lipsky
   For First Chief Economist in Four Years
   ----
   By Michael R. Sesit
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Currently a director of bond-market research and head of a
team of European economists for Salomon Brothers in London,
Mr. Lipsky, 44 years old, joined the firm in 1984 from the
International Monetary Fund.
   In an interview yesterday, Mr. Lipsky said U.S. interest
rates will fall further, while German rates remain stable or
even rise -- a combination that will continue to weaken the
U.S. dollar.
   Current and former employees said that the naming of
someone who has devoted much of his career to analyzing
international economic issues to such a prestigious post
reflected both the growing globalization of capital markets
and Salomon's growing commitment to international
fixed-income markets.
   Some people also noted that Mr. Lipsky has a close
relationship with Deryck Maughan, Salomon's chief operating
officer. They said that Mr. Maughan feels comfortable with
the tall, debonair Stanford University-trained economist as
the firm's chief economic spokesman.
   "In the environment of the 1990s, Salomon is in effect
saying there's need to take a global perspective on the
domestic as well as international markets, and John is
ideally suited for that role with the perspective that he
brings," said Nicholas P. Sargen, chief strategist at Global
Fixed Income Advisors, a unit of Prudential Insurance Co. of
America, Newark, N.J. "That's the significance of picking an
international person for that role."
   Mr. Sargen, a former colleague of Mr. Lipsky's at Salomon,
added: "John is somebody you can talk to on issues concerning
virtually any part of the global marketplace. He's
knowledgeable on North American markets, Latin America,
European markets and the Asia/Pacific region. His command of
the global economy and marketplace is unsurpassed."
   After Mr. Kaufman resigned, Salomon unsuccessfully tried
to lure such big names as former Federal Reserve Board
Chairman Paul A. Volcker to join the firm. At the time,
Salomon's then-president, Thomas Strauss, intimated that Mr.
Kaufman was irreplaceable and said that many analysts would
speak for the firm on economic matters.
   Indeed, Mr. Lipsky and Mr. Sargen voiced Salomon's views
on international bond markets and currencies, while Robert
DiClemente, Richard Berner and Susan Hering spoke out about
domestic markets.
   Messrs. Lipsky and Sargen "were very instrumental in
increasing U.S. investors' awareness of international bond
markets and contributed significantly to Salomon's success in
these arenas," said Nancy Kimelman, chief economist at
Thomson Financial Networks in Boston and a former Salomon
economist. She also said that "John is brilliant at
communicating the big picture."
   Some observers said it was unusual that Salomon appointed
as its chief economist someone who isn't one of the 154
managing directors at the firm. When asked why Mr. Lipsky
hadn't been named a managing director, Martin L. Liebowitz,
managing director and director of research, said: "We looked
around for the very best person to fill the job."
   Yesterday, Salomon also named David G. Shulman, managing
director in charge of the firm's real estate group, as its
chief U.S. equity strategist. Mr. Shulman, 48, will continue
to manage the real estate group.