LEISURE  ARTS:
   TV: Gulf War Recollections;
   Walter Matthau vs. Corruption
   ----
   By Dorothy Rabinowitz
The Gulf War may be old news now, but this series
involving every top official having anything to do with that
conflict isn't the usual stroll down memory lane. These are
the largely private recollections of the key players.
Diary-like reflections, they are, as diaries tend to be,
fascinating. Shortly after the decision was made to commit
combat forces, James Baker informed Kuwaiti Ambassador
Al-Sabah his country was about to be liberated but that he
must tell no one. The excited Al-Sabah locked himself up
alone, for fear of spilling the secret. Secretary Cheney
tells of passing the president notes with the latest from the
front in the midst of Sunday church services. Some of the
comments aired, of course, are revelatory in ways the
speakers can't have intended. Among these we can include the
unctuously confident explanations given by a member of the
National Security Council about the rightness of the decision
to end the war and leave Saddam in power.
   10-11 p.m. EST, on the Discovery Channel. Parts two and
three follow on consecutive Fridays.
                                                                                                       

                    Sunday, Jan. 19
                                                                                                       

                     Against Her Will
                                                                                                       

   Set in Maryland, 1947, this unsurprising tale of triumph
over villainy has one thing going for it -- Walter Matthau.
That may not be quite enough to make up for the patness of
this story, but it helps. Mr. Matthau plays a doughty lawyer
trying to liberate a non-psychotic woman shanghaied, by
money-hungry psychiatrists, into an institution for the
insane. When not being mucked up by a stupefying subplot
about the judge's widowed daughter-in-law, the film, which is
fact-based, is an absorbing enough tale of institutional
corruption.
   9-11 p.m. EST, on CBS.
                                                                                                       


                                                                                                       

   We, in turn, are tempted to slumber, but for a few
chilling moments, in this saga of a comatose heiress. This is
the year of the coma, on TV. Here a caddishly charming
husband (David Dukes) is accused of responsibility for his
wife's condition. This tale about the idle rich and their
comas boasts a Santa Barbara setting and a justifiably uneasy
Lindsay Wagner in the starring role.
   9-11 p.m. EST, on ABC.
                                                                                                       

                        Monday, Jan. 20
                                                                                                       

   Bed of Lies In this fact-based and mostly grim account of
a once-prominent political family, former Texas Gov. Price
Daniel (John Anderson) is portrayed as an avenging father,
seeking custody of his grandchildren. Mr. Daniel's son, Price
Daniel Jr., was, according to the film, a wastrel, a druggie
of uncertain sexual identity and a wife beater who one fine
day got himself shot dead. The hand holding the smoking gun
belonged to his wife, a former waitress. Susan Dey plays wife
Vicki in this immoderately bleak if seldom boring tale.
   9-11 p.m. EST, on ABC.
                                                                                                       

                  Thursday, Jan. 23
                                                                                                       

   Prime Suspect This tough and smart drama about a female
chief inspector is going to be a hard act for "Mystery]" to
follow. Not only because of its crackling suspense, but
because it is that rare thing, a crime and mystery story --
British, to boot -- that manages to be emotionally moving. It
is also devoid of political harangues despite the fact that
this is a kind of feminist tale about the trials of a woman
in a quintessentially male profession.
   Helen Mirren, previously seen mainly in movies that have
her rolling around without clothes on, gives a spectacularly
nuanced performance as Jane Tennison, the buttoned-up
detective chief inspector whom the fates place at the head of
a gruesome murder investigation. To say that Inspector
Tennison leads a team of recalcitrant male colleagues in
pursuit of a serial killer is to put the plot (script by
Lynda La Plante) far too simply. It is, among other things, a
study in pure, unflinching ambition.
   Preoccupied with the homicide, a busy Inspector Tennison
keeps trying unsuccessfully to accommodate a boyfriend who
just wants a little more of her time. Ms. Mirren's portrayal
of a woman asked to pay attention to love and dinner plans
when her heart and mind are utterly and passionately
elsewhere is a marvel of subtlety. As between the inspector's
lover and her murder case, it's no contest; the case wins,
ambition and success win, and no apologies, no bleeding-heart
regrets or wistfulness about it, either. Besides the bracing
character of Inspector Tennison, there are the "lads" -- the
difficult but not altogether hopeless lot of male colleagues
-- who team up to track the killer in the smashing final
sequence.
   9-11 p.m. EST, on PBS. PBS air dates and times vary so
check local listings. Parts two and three air the following
Thursdays.