Westinghouse Cuts Quarterly Dividend
   By Nearly Half, Will Save $240 Million
   ----
   By Gabriella Stern
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The board also announced it will issue $500 million of
preferred equity redemption cumulative stock, or Percs.
Morgan Stanley and Lehman Brothers will underwrite the
offering in the first quarter.
   Percs are hybrid securities that allow investors to share
in the common stock's price gains, but only up to a preset
limit. The Westinghouse Percs, which convert to common stock
within three years, pay a higher dividend than common stock.
Proceeds from the offering will be used to reduce debt.
   Westinghouse shares edged up 12.5 cents yesterday, closing
at $18.375 in New York Stock Exchange composite trading.
   Westinghouse executives and industry analysts viewed the
dividend cut, the first that the company has recorded, as yet
another in a series of blows. Westinghouse has taken $2.6
billion in pretax charges in the past five quarters as a
result of loan losses in its financial services unit, mainly
from real estate investments. The company has also cut 4,000
jobs and is trying to sell off assets of its $8.7 billion
credit unit.
   "Now they've moved out of intensive care and into rehab,"
said Nicholas P. Heymann, an analyst with County NatWest
Securities. Mr. Heymann lifted his recommendation on
Westinghouse stock this week to a "buy," just three weeks
after raising it to "accumulate" from "underperform."
   Judy Meehan, an analyst with Parker/Hunter Inc., said
Westinghouse, helped by a stronger cash position and
cushioned by an improving economy and lower interest rates,
won't have to take additional charges for about a year. "Over
the next 12 months they're safe," said Ms. Meehan, who last
week put the stock on her "recommended" list. "After that, it
really depends on how the real estate market does and how the
economy does."
   Many of Westinghouse's diverse businesses have suffered in
recent months. Cuts in military spending have hurt the
company's defense electronics unit, while its environmental
services, broadcasting and office furniture units have turned
in lackluster performances because of the weak economy.
   Directors yesterday also announced two accounting changes
required by the Financial Accounting Standards Board. One
change, affecting post-retirement benefits, will result in a
$750 million after-tax charge to 1992 first-quarter earnings.
The other change, for income-tax accounting, will result in a
benefit of $450 million, reducing the overall first-quarter
charge to $300 million. The company doesn't expect the
charges to hurt retained earnings or shareholder equity.
   Separately, the board named Laurence A. Chapman vice
president and treasurer. Mr. Chapman, 42 years old, was chief
financial officer of the credit unit until last August, when
he resigned, reportedly in protest of the handling of the
unit's loan portfolio. Mr. Chapman remained at the company,
however, overseeing various projects. He now oversees the
treasury activities of Westinghouse and the credit unit,
assuming those duties from August W. Frisch, who was named
vice president, taxes and pension investments.