Basically Sound:
   It's Hit a Rough Patch,
   But Japan's Economy
   Is Still Enviably Robust
   ---
   Bank Stress and Dip in Profits
   Mask Solid Balance Sheets
   At Most Big Companies
   ---
   Minuscule Jobless Rate
   ----
   By Clay Chandler and Masayoshi Kanabayashi
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
An unaccustomed torrent of bad economic news has flowed
from Japan in recent weeks: Gross national product is
falling, blue-chip companies are using red ink, and demands
for interest-rate cuts are heard everywhere. Yet the gloomy
reports obscure some fundamental truths about Japan's
economy, which remains basically sound. Japan's beleaguered
stock market and troubled banking system may force Japanese
companies to pay higher dividends and otherwise modify the
way they do business, but over the past 20 years Japan has
successfully made several difficult adjustments -- to two oil
shocks and to a rapid, sharp increase in the value of its
currency.
   "This isn't a soup-kitchen scenario," says Stephen Barber,
president of the Tokyo office of Invesco MIM, a British
investment-trust management company.
   Indeed, although corporate profits in Japan are falling,
the country's unemployment rate is just over 2%, and the
annual inflation rate is well under 3%. Bankruptcies are
mounting, but Japan hasn't had a bank failure since World War
II and isn't likely to experience anything like the U.S.
savings-and-loan fiasco.
   Interest rates are up from the low levels of the late
1980s, but Japan's annual budget deficit is tiny, and
long-term borrowing costs are still lower than in any other
industrialized nation. Despite share prices that have plunged
over the past two years and slackening bank lending,
economists say many of Japan's big companies have cash
reserves to last them through the next two years.
   And although their rate of spending on new plants and
equipment has begun slowing, Japan's firms still invest twice
as much as their U.S. rivals as a percentage of total
national output. Most have just finished creating a new
generation of high-tech facilities and machines that will
last them until the beginning of the next century. Economists
say short of an earthquake or a global trade war, Japan will
be the world's major -- if not its only -- exporter of
capital in the latter 1990s.
   All this leaves the Japanese with a strong sense of
self-assurance despite the downturn. Whatever their concerns
about their economy's immediate problems, most Japanese --
executives, laborers, government officials and private
analysts -- are confident of the long-term future.
   "Our problems are not nearly as serious as those in the
United States," says a senior official at the Bank of Japan.
"I think we're very lucky."
   Yet over the past two months, Japan's financial
authorities have been given ample reason to worry:
   -- Recession abroad and sluggish consumer demand at home
have forced Japan's manufacturers to cut output at the most
brutal pace in 20 years. Inventory is piling up in spite of
the cuts, and for many companies won't be cleared for months.
Corporate profits are expected to be down an average of 11%
for the year ending March 31, and a few blue-chip
manufacturers like Sony Corp. and Victor Co. of Japan (JVC)
are reporting their first losses ever. Corporate bankruptcies
are at record levels. A quarterly survey released by the Bank
of Japan earlier this month found business confidence at its
lowest level in five years.
   -- The Tokyo stock market is in a funk. Last week, the
benchmark Nikkei stock average sank below the psychologically
crucial 20,000 level, wiping out all the gains of the booming
1980s. Tokyo shares are worth about half what they were at
the market's peak at the end of 1989. Three of the nation's
four largest securities houses say they will post big losses
this year, and Tokyo's financial district is abuzz with
rumors that dozens of the nation's struggling small brokerage
houses may be forced to merge with larger rivals. Issuance of
new shares, meanwhile, has ground to a virtual halt.
   -- The stock market's slump has put a kink in the lending
plans of the nation's powerful city banks, whose assets are
largely tied up in Japan's equity market. With share prices
so low, banks have a more difficult time meeting
international capital requirements and as a result can make
fewer loans. Slumping land prices are hurting banks, too,
which had lent so heavily to real-estate concerns. Recent
estimates of nonperforming loans held by 15 major banks range
from 7 to 20 trillion yen, or at least $52 billion.
   -- Last week, officials at the Economic Planning Agency
reported that the Japanese economy shrank 0.05% in the last
three months of 1991 -- the first time in more than two years
that Japan's output has contracted. Analysts expect another
contraction in the three months ending March 31.
   Japan's downturn has already begun rippling through the
world economy. Japanese investors are bringing home the money
they once tossed about so freely in overseas markets. Only a
few years ago, Japanese investors snapped up as much as half
of U.S. Treasury securities offered at government auctions;
lately, their demand for the securities has slumped to 10%.
Japanese investors have backed out of at least a dozen
Hawaiian resort projects. In 1988, Japan was a net exporter
of capital by $136.5 billion; in 1991, it was net importer by
$36.6 billion.
   In the late 1980s, Japan's financial authorities "put the
whole economy on steroids," says Kenneth Courtis, chief
economist at the Tokyo unit of Deutsche Bank AG. But now, as
Japan kicks its addiction to that era's loose money,
"everybody is suffering withdrawal symptoms."
   Some confusion about the state of Japan's economic health
stems from the relatively high standards experts use to
measure it. Take the question of whether Japan is in a
recession. Despite the contraction in the third fiscal
quarter and the expected contraction in the fourth, Japan is
likely to finish the fiscal year ending March 31 with GNP
growth of 3.5% or so. For the year ending March 31, 1993,
most experts agree the economy will fall well short of the
government's official estimate of 3.5% growth, but even the
pessimists think it will grow at least 2.5%.
   If the U.S. economy performed like that, economic policy
makers would celebrate. But in Japan, those growth rates draw
sober expressions of concern and prompt even foreign
economists to warn that Japan suffers from an oxymoronic
malady called "growth recession."
   In the labor market, there's little evidence of recession.
The ratio of job offers to job seekers has eased only
slightly in recent months; today, for every 100 people
seeking work, there are 128 jobs available. In past
recessions, applications have outpaced jobs.
   Last week, Hitachi Ltd. said it will move about 2,000
employees out of its computer, semiconductor and
consumer-electronics divisions into heavy machinery and
equipment plants. And the U.S. subsidiary of Fujitsu Ltd.
said it plans to fire at least 100 of its 5,000 workers
partly because of slow sales. But the overriding concern of
most Japanese employers is that they won't have enough
workers when the slump abates. They are hoarding laborers for
the future despite profit declines. JVC, for example, hasn't
altered plans to take on 839 new recruits this spring even
though the maker of videocassette recorders expects a pretax
loss of $34.2 million -- its first deficit since 1951 -- in
the current fiscal year.
   Koichi Ohmori, a 22-year-old student due to graduate from
a Tokyo accounting college this month, says he isn't
concerned about finding work. He has already rejected one
offer because the firm was too small. "I'm looking for a
better job," he explains with a smile.
   Corporate capital expenditure plans also demonstrate
Japan's long-term optimism. The Bank of Japan's quarterly
survey indicates Japanese companies plan to reduce capital
spending 11.8% in the fiscal year ending March 31, 1993.
However, the largest corporations plan only a 3.2% cut, and
that would be a relatively modest decline given the highly
aggressive pace at which they have invested over the past
five years. Japanese companies spent $3 trillion on new
factories and equipment between 1986 and 1991. Last year,
private investment accounted for a whopping 22% of Japan's
real gross domestic product, about double its share in the
U.S. economy.
   Corporations will get a boost in meeting their investment
goals if Bank of Japan Governor Yasushi Mieno lowers the
official discount rate this week, as is widely expected. Mr.
Mieno has lowered this rate -- the interest the Bank of Japan
charges on its loans to private banks -- three times since
July. The rate now stands at 4.5%, two percentage points
higher than during the peak of the liquidity boom.
   The government is expected to help on the fiscal side,
too. Japan's Diet, or parliament, adopted a mildly
stimulative budget earlier this month, and plans to
accelerate the impact of its spending programs by disbursing
about 75% of its public works contracts in the first half of
the fiscal year beginning April 1. The cabinet of Prime
Minister Kiichi Miyazawa, who is known to favor expansionist
fiscal policies, is likely to call for additional spending on
public works projects to be disbursed in the second half.
   If those official supports aren't enough, Japan's
companies may resort to a solution that has helped them
cushion the impact of past downturns: increasing exports.
Many of Japan's big manufacturers already have begun stepping
up shipments abroad to clear inventories. Japan's trade
surplus doubled in February from a year earlier to its
largest monthly level ever, and economists are predicting it
could balloon to more than $100 billion in 1992.
   That prospect worries Japanese government officials, who
are concerned about aggravating the already high tensions
with the U.S. The Ministry of International Trade and
Industry last week called on Japan's automobile manufacturers
to lower the voluntary ceiling on auto exports 28% to 1.65
million vehicles for the year beginning April 1, but the
measure probably won't make a major dent in the trade
surplus. Japan's auto makers are expected to report exports
of 1.73 million cars to the U.S. in the 12 months ending this
month, so the cut in exports next year would amount to only
80,000 cars.
   As for the stock market, it will take more than
accelerated public-works spending, a modest cut in interest
rates or further expansion of exports to boost Japan's share
prices. Restoring the stock market's appeal may require
raising corporate dividend payouts, lowering commissions
charged by brokerage houses and official approval of a
broader range of investment instruments.
   The long-term health of Japan's economy, however, isn't in
doubt. Mr. Mieno told members of the parliament last week he
anticipates a recovery in the spring of 1993. Many private
economists think Japan will bounce back even sooner, with
most predicting a recovery by the end of this year.
   Masashi Kojima, president of Nippon Telegraph  Telephone
Corp., expects his own company's profits will drop by as much
as a third in the next fiscal year. Even so, he plans to
spend 1.96 trillion yen -- "the highest in our 120-year
history," he says -- on capital improvements in the next
fiscal year.
   "I'm sure many people say I am crazy to invest so much
when the financial situation is bad," he says, "but I am
convinced that's the way to go. If I were in the U.S., where
business performance is measured on a quarterly basis, I
would be fired."