Counterpoint:
   Saving Endangered Species Doesn't Endanger Economy
   ----
   By John C. Sawhill
In the past five years, some 34,600 development projects
were evaluated by the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service for
their impact on endangered species. Only 23 -- less than
one-tenth of one percent -- were halted because they put
species in jeopardy.
   To put this in perspective, in the same period 29
airplanes crashed into commercial or residential buildings in
the U.S. That means that a developer faced a greater chance
during that time of having an airplane crash into something
he built than having a project stopped by the Endangered
Species Act.
   Contrary to the impression left by a Jan. 15 editorial in
this newspaper ("Species Act, Endangered"), most Americans
don't seem to be buying the arguments of people who seek to
devalue the importance of biological diversity. A new poll
conducted by the bipartisan polling team of
Tarrance/Greenberg-Lake shows that 66% of registered voters
support the Endangered Species Act. Only 11% of voters oppose
the act. There is strong support for the act even in regions
where the most contentious conflicts have occurred.
   Voters came down on the side of species even when
presented with a stark choice between saving species or
protecting local businesses and jobs -- 48% to 29%. Nearly a
quarter of those polled did not want to make this choice.
   Fortunately, we don't have to choose. Critics of the act
have tried to frame the debate in "either-or" terms -- either
you're for jobs or for species, with no middle ground. But in
emphasizing those isolated incidents where species protection
threatens jobs, they ignore the many success stories
associated with the act.
   The truth of the matter is that the act works, for people
as well as for animals and plants. For example, of the
roughly 600 species that have been listed as threatened or
endangered over the past two decades, only seven have become
extinct. Nine species have recovered sufficiently to be
removed from the list, and many others have made remarkable
recoveries -- animals like the bald eagle, American
alligator, California gray whale, and peregrine falcon. The
provisions of the act ensured that these magnificent
creatures could survive in the wild.
   Experience has shown that the conflict-resolution
mechanisms already found in the act can succeed. Perhaps the
most promising of these mechanisms are Habitat Conservation
Plans, or HCPs, which have resolved disputes by accommodating
the interests of both business and the environment. For
example:
   -- An HCP was approved last summer to protect the
endangered desert tortoise in the rapidly growing area around
Las Vegas, Nevada. Working together, environmental groups,
the development community and government agencies created a
plan that set aside 400,000 acres for the tortoise in the
outlying desert. Meanwhile, 22,000 valuable acres adjacent to
Las Vegas were freed up for commercial and residential
development.
   -- In the Coachella Valley near Palm Springs, Calif.,
development plans with a potential value of $19 billion
threatened the habitat of the endangered fringe-toed lizard.
Under the terms of an HCP, a 15,000-acre preserve was set
aside for the lizard, paving the way for construction in
other parts of the valley. Developers found that property
values and tax revenues went up because of the proximity to
the lizard preserve.
   -- Planning for an HCP is currently under way near Austin
in Travis County, Texas. At risk are two endangered bird
species and five other species that live in the Hill Country
to the west of Austin, an area targeted for hundreds of
millions of dollars of development projects. Current plans
call for the creation of about 60,000 acres of preserves,
with the remaining 820,000 acres in the area opened to
development. The HCP will also help to safeguard the aquifer
that provides the drinking water for three million people.
   Of course, not every endangered-species conflict can be so
neatly resolved. But even in cases that appear to involve a
short-term economic sacrifice, protecting the diversity of
species is really a long-term investment in the future.
   This point is clearly articulated in the 1990 report of
the President's Council on Environmental Quality, which
flatly states, "Domestically and world-wide, it is a healthy
environment that makes wealth possible."
   The decline of species that led to the enactment of
endangered-species legislation is an indicator that our
environment is not healthy. And we are already feeling the
economic consequences.
   The spotted owl controversy in the Pacific Northwest
provides a classic example. Far from being an impediment to
growth, the plight of the owl reflects the destruction of a
once-plentiful resource -- the old-growth forest. As U.S.
Judge William Dwyer wrote in his celebrated opinion last
spring, owls are not responsible for the decline of the
logging industry; rather, a combination of factors are at
work, including overlogging, mechanization and exports.
   Then there's the fishing industry. On any given day, a
third of this country's shellfish waters are closed because
of pollution. Since 1982, commercial landings of fish and
shellfish along the southeast Atlantic and the Gulf of Mexico
have dropped 42%. The populations of every fish species
harvested commercially or recreationally in North American
waters are at or near all-time lows.
   And in the Everglades watershed, pollution, conversion of
land, and the diversion of water for agricultural and
residential uses has led to a malfunctioning of the entire
ecosystem. Not only could this devastate the balance of life
in the Everglades, but it also poses a direct threat to the
long-term supply of fresh water for Miami and other rapidly
growing cities of south Florida. What do the Journal's
editorialists, who portray environmentalism as uneconomic,
say on this one?
   The depletion of species is an urgent alarm, a signal of
the severe stresses on our environment. The Endangered
Species Act seeks to answer that alarm. To turn back the
clock, and return to the policies that have led us to the
brink, would be more than foolhardy -- it would violate one
of our most basic commitments to our children and theirs.
   ---
   Mr. Sawhill, president of the Nature Conservancy, was
formerly president of New York University and served in the
Carter and Ford administrations.
   (See related letters: "Letters to the Editor: The People
vs. Lizards and Owls" -- WSJ March 17, 1992)
   920220-0108