Economy:
   White House Budget Proposal to Stretch
   Seams of 1990 Deficit-Reduction Law
   ----
   By David Wessel
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The result is that Mr. Bush is likely to insist that he is
faithful to the goal of deficit-reduction while making
proposals that, if adopted by Congress, would widen the
deficit -- if not this year, then in the future.
   The maneuvers include altering accounting for the Pension
Benefit Guaranty Corp. and the bank deposit insurance fund in
order to make room for more tax cuts this year, failing to
fully reflect the recent decline in inflation in order to
allow more spending, and fashioning a tax incentive for
saving so that it narrows the deficit now, but will increase
it in the future.
   The administration is resorting to these techniques
because the law it helped write is too strict to allow for
the White House's election-year programs. The White House
fears that if it proposes to change the law, or uses its
emergency power to suspend it, then Congress will abandon
fiscal discipline altogether. But some Democratic staffers
say that the tactic could backfire and cause congressional
leaders to conclude that the White House has poked so many
holes in the unpopular law that it isn't worth preserving.
   As White House budget analysts informed their
congressional counterparts in a closed-door meeting Friday,
the newly adjusted fiscal 1993 caps on outlays -- $225.4
billion for domestic spending subject to annual appropriation
by Congress and $296.8 billion for defense -- don't allow
spending to grow even enough to compensate for inflation. The
law also requires that tax cuts in Mr. Bush's "growth
package" be offset with cuts in programs not subject to
annual appropriation -- such as Medicare and pension
guarantees. That led the White House budget office to
structure proposals so that it can claim credit for savings
before they actually occur.
   According to congressional staff, Mr. Bush's Jan. 29
budget likely will include the following maneuvers:
   -- In setting spending ceilings for fiscal 1993 -- which
begins Oct. 1 -- the budget law assumed that inflation in
1991 would be 5.2%. It turned out to be only 3.9%, which
requires the ceiling to be adjusted downward. But in making
the adjustment, the White House budget office is excluding
accounts that cover salaries. The Congressional Budget Office
says the law doesn't allow this; the White House is the final
arbiter.
   The result: The White House and Congress will be able to
spend about $2.2 billion more in fiscal 1993 than they would
have otherwise, according to congressional estimates.
Although that's a small fraction of total spending, it is a
substantial sum.
   -- The administration is proposing an accounting change
for the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corp. that will widen the
fiscal 1992 budget deficit by $8 billion. But the change, to
accrual from cash accounting, will allow the administration
to project substantial savings in fiscal 1993 from proposals
it is making in the budget. The budget then uses these
"savings" to pay for tax cuts.
   "If you use this money," one congressional analyst
complained, "then you haven't done any good on net." In
effect, the administration would fill a hole that has been
hidden, but then dig a new one.
   Administration officials didn't describe the pension
proposals at Friday's meeting, but they appear to involve
requiring some corporations to contribute more money to their
pension funds, reducing the risk that the agency will have to
make the pension payments some day.
   -- The administration is also proposing a change in the
way it accounts for deposit insurance. This will shrink the
fiscal 1992 deficit by about $30 billion. It also means that
the cost of tax cuts enacted this year can be offset by
"savings" the administration projects will occur in later
years from proposals in the budget, congressional sources
said. Details weren't available, but the administration may
propose limits on deposit insurance that were rejected by
Congress last year.
   -- The administration, as reported previously, is expected
to propose new tax breaks for saving. The new Family Savings
Accounts, as the administration has labelled them in the
past, would offer individuals no up-front tax deduction for
saving money. But interest on that money would escape taxes
altogether. The impact on the deficit, therefore, is delayed
into the future.
   Under the Bush proposal, people will be able to take money
from old Individual Retirement Accounts and deposit it in the
new accounts as long as they pay taxes on a portion of the
withdrawal. Congressional sources say the administration now
estimates these rollovers will raise about $3 billion for the
government in 1993, helping to finance its tax cuts. An
earlier administration estimate put this at $9 billion, but
that apparently has been scaled back.
   Mr. Bush also is expected to propose cutting the capital
gains tax, increasing the personal exemption -- now $2,300 a
person -- by hundreds of dollars, offering first-time
homebuyers a $5,000 tax credit, and temporarily increasing
business depreciation allowances.
   Mr. Bush is sure to trumpet his plans to trim defense
spending although the savings in fiscal 1993 will be small.
The budget law sets ceilings both on Pentagon spending
authority (which may be spent over several years) and on cash
outlays in 1993. The budget figures are likely to be close to
the ceiling on spending authority, but $4 billion or so below
the outlay ceiling.
   Current administration plans call for cutting the defense
budget from projected levels by more than $50 billion over
the next five years, according to congressional defense
budget aides. But Mr. Bush is expected to talk of even deeper
cuts in the future if world conditions permit.
   The Joint Chiefs of Staff, for example, have drafted
personnel-reduction plans that could cut outlays an
additional $15 billion to $20 billion over those five years,
according to one congressional aide.
   A big chunk of the $50 billion reduction, however,
represents cuts in programs that were built into Pentagon
projections but that weren't likely to be approved by
Congress anyway.
   ---
   Andy Pasztor contributed to this article.