Technology  Medicine:
   BellSouth Unit and Swatch to Introduce
   Wristwatch Pager, Joint Marketing Plan
   ----
   By Mary Lu Carnevale
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
While other wristwatch pagers on the market today look
utilitarian, the Swatch watch pager will look like one of the
company's colorful watches, with no liquidcrystal display of
telephone numbers. Instead, the watch emits four distinct
signals. Each signal indicates a particular number the wearer
should call -- home, office, or perhaps a child's school.
   The watch is expected to sell for about $200, a price that
includes activation on MobilComm's national paging network
and six months of service, sources familiar with the Swatch
product said. Distribution will be through department stores
and other outlets that sell Swatch products.
   "I think there is a market for this, especially among
latchkey kids," said Kenneth Leon, an analyst for Bear
Stearns  Co. He noted that BellSouth's nationwide paging
network and Swatch's distribution system are a good fit. The
key to developing a personal pager market, he said, will be
the price tag, and he suggested that $200 "is still high." He
also cautioned that the venture could face stiff competition
from other wristwatch pagers and from ever-shrinking paging
devices.
   Motorola Inc. announced a wristwatch pager in July 1990 --
a joint development project with Timex Corp. A spokesman
declined to discuss sales, but said the market is selective:
those who don't want to wear a traditional pager on their
belts. Motorola's product, which weighs a little more than
two ounces, is sold through local paging companies.
   ATE Corp., another pioneer in wristwatch paging, recently
sold its assets to Seiko Corp. and Seiko Epson Corp., which
had been making the wristwatch pager for ATE. The Japanese
companies are now marketing ATE's wristwatch pager service
in the U.S., and plan to expand the service, which uses FM
radio waves, to 52 U.S. cities in five years.
   The MobilComm-Swatch venture relies less on a new
technology and more on marketing savvy. Swatch introduces new
designs and retires old ones rapidly, encouraging
trend-conscious teens and young adults to buy several watches
as fashion accessories.
   MobilComm currently markets Motorola's wristwatch pager,
which combines a numeric display pager with a digital watch.
Swatch and BellSouth may later introduce a display pager if
the market for fashionable wristwatch pagers takes off.
   Just what BellSouth will charge for its paging services is
uncertain, but customers are expected to have a choice
between nationwide and regional service.