Credit Markets:
   Bonds Fall on Bush Statements About Economy,
   Hedging Tied to Big Supply of Corporate Issues
   ----
   By Constance Mitchell and Kevin Donovan
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
The bond market's bellwether security, the 30-year
Treasury bond, fell more than 5/8 point, a loss of more than
$6.25 for a bond with a $1,000 face amount. The benchmark
bond was quoted late at a price of 100 12/32, down from 101
1/32 on Tuesday. The issue's yield, which moves in the
opposite direction of its price, rose to 7.95% from 7.90%.
   Some analysts believe the yield on the Treasury's
long-term bonds will rise even higher in the days ahead. "The
big news is that this market is going to shoot through {a
yield level of} 8%," said Peter McTeague, a bond market
analyst at Technical Data, a Boston research firm.
   Mr. McTeague expects interest rates to rise in response to
today's report on February retail sales, which he believes
will be stronger than expected. Evidence of economic strength
is bearish for the bond market because investors assume the
growth eventually will lead to higher inflation and interest
rates.
   Such fears prompted some speculators and institutional
investors to shed long-term bonds. A Dow Jones Capital
Markets Report consensus of economists expects that retail
sales rose 0.8% in the month and were up 0.4% when sales of
automobiles are excluded. In January, retail sales with and
without automobiles rose 0.6%.
   "We're right where we were last Thursday, poised before a
fairly significant economic release," notes Joseph Liro,
senior vice president at S.G. Warburg  Co. Indeed, the yield
on the 30-year Treasury bond is close to the level on the eve
of last Friday's release of February employment data. The
bond market managed to weather a surprisingly strong jobs
report and rally through Monday before falling back the next
two trading sessions.
   "Will the market {be able to repeat that performance} if
retail sales are as strong as the employment report was
relative to expectations? It doesn't feel that way right
now," said Mr. Liro.
   George Kegler, a senior vice president at A. Webster
Dougherty Co. in Philadelphia, said the huge volume of
corporate bond issuance this week also affected the market.
After several weeks of very modest issuance, the new issue
volume suddenly took off this week. According to Securities
Data Corp., about $3 billion of nonconvertible corporate
bonds have been sold so far this week.
   "Corporations come to market in droves," said Mr. Kegler,
which sometimes swells dealer inventories. To protect the
value of the new corporate bonds, which sometimes sit in
inventory for several days until they are sold to investors,
dealers often hedge their portfolios against market changes.
This often is done by selling short Treasury securities.
   The most notable feature of yesterday's trading action was
the unwinding of "curve-flattening" positions, where dealers
were positioned to profit if the gap, called a spread,
between yields on short-term and long-term securities
narrows. That position was profitable until yesterday. As
yields on long-term securities rose yesterday while yields on
short-term securities declined, the spread widened and
dealers decided to cash out.
   Traders say there were large buyers of two-year notes and
sellers of 30-year bonds, booking profits that have accrued
as short-term yields rose faster than long-term yields in the
past two weeks. Traders say there were also sellers of
five-year notes and buyers of two-year notes.
   That explains why two-year notes were among the best
performing securities in the Treasury market yesterday. The
notes ended trading at a price of 99 20/32 to yield 5.56%, up
slightly from 99 19/32 to yield 5.58%.
   Rates on Treasury bills were little changed. The discount
rate on three-month bills ended at 4.01% to yield 4.09%,
while the rate on six-month bills ended at 4.16% to yield
4.29%.
                                                                                                       

   Corporate  Junk Bonds
                                                                                                       

   Companies lined up to sell bonds and notes again, boosting
this week's total issuance to more than $3 billion. That
already exceeds the roughly $2.9 billion of new
nonconvertible corporate debt issued last week, according to
Securities Data Co.
   The biggest news in the high-yield market was the approval
of Revco D.S. Inc.'s bankruptcy reorganization plan, ending
the company's Chapter 11 proceedings which began in mid-1988.
The news caused prices of Revco's bonds to gyrate. In early
trading, the drug store chain's 13 1/8% senior subordinated
notes, due in 1994, were quoted at 51 bid, up 1 1/2. But
later in the day, prices moved down to 49, due to
profit-taking, traders said.
   Prices of most other junk bonds generally were down 3/8
point.
   In the high-grade corporate market, prices ended down 1/4
to 1/2, in tandem with U.S. Treasury securities. Among major
issuers yesterday, BankAmerica Corp. sold $500 million of
notes, priced through underwriters led by Lehman Brothers
Inc.
   The first part of the offering, consisting of $150 million
of floating rate notes, due March 15, 1995, was priced at
99.85 to float quarterly at a rate that is 0.30 percentage
points above the London Interbank Offered Rate. Yesterday,
Libor was 4.375%. The noncallable notes will be reset
quarterly and will pay interest quarterly. The second part,
consisting of $350 million of notes, due March 15, 1997, was
priced to yield 7.659%.
                                                                                                       

   Municipal Bonds
                                                                                                       

   Strong demand from a mix of investors greeted the
Massachusetts Convention Center Authority's $162.6 million
offering of refunding bonds.
   Meanwhile, prices of some Massachusetts general obligation
bonds slipped about 1/4 point in light trading, posting
losses in line with the rest of the secondary market.
Tuesday, the bonds rose as much as 1/2 point on news that
Massachusetts's improving finances could lead to a rating
upgrade later this year.
   A Tucker Anthony Inc. group priced the Massachusetts
Convention Center issue to yield from 3.80% in 1993 to 6.80%
for zero-coupon bonds maturing in 2005.
   Demand was especially high for the zero-coupon bond
portion of the offering, due to a lack of those securities in
the Massachusetts market, dealers said. The bonds, priced at
a deep discount to their par value, pay no interest until
maturity.
   The convention center bonds carry the same ratings as
Massachusetts G.O.s: Baa by Moody's Investors Service Inc.
and triple-B by Standard  Poor's Corp. The bonds are
considered general obligations of Massachusetts because the
state must provide payments, known as contract assistance,
equal to the debt service requirements for the bonds.
   Meanwhile, a rating downgrade is expected to translate
into higher yields for Monroe County, N.Y., when it sells
$121 million of G.O.s in a competitive sale today. Moody's
lowered its rating on the bonds to single-A-1 from double-A,
citing the county's "inaccurate budget estimates and a
failure to take timely action to offset cuts in state aid and
lower-than-budgeted sales tax revenues."
                                                                                                       

   Mortgage  Asset-Backed Securities
                                                                                                       

   The real estate mortgage investment conduit sector of the
market saw one of its bigger days as underwriters announced
$1.9 billion of new securities.
   However, despite the four new deals and the increase of
one outstanding offering, volume of new Remics generally has
been declining. That is the result of a flattening Treasury
yield curve and tight spreads between mortgage securities and
Treasury notes.
   A flatter yield curve -- with short-term rates rising more
than bond yields -- takes some of the incentive away from
underwriting Remics because most classes of these deals are
tied to short-term Treasurys. Tighter yield spreads of
mortgage securities above Treasury notes also makes it less
advantageous to create Remics, as the collateral for Remic
deals becomes more expensive compared with Treasurys.
   With issuance more limited, the available Remic supply is
being readily absorbed by investors, dealers say.
   In secondary mortgage securities trading, Government
National Mortgage Association 8% securities for March
delivery fell 17/32 to 99, Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp.
Gold 8% securities dropped 15/32 to 98 21/32 and Federal
National Mortgage Association 8% securities declined 15/32 to
98 23/32.