Michigan, Illinois Hit Hard by Recession
   But Rest of Midwest Is Weathering Well
   ----
   By Alex Kotlowitz and Robert L. Rose
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
But the news last week that Illinois had the highest
jobless rate among the nation's biggest states, at 9.3%, sent
a chill through Midwestern spines. Michigan was second at
9.1%, two percentage points above the national rate.
   "The Midwest is catching the rest of the nation's cold,"
says Diane Swonk, a First Chicago Corp. economist. "But I
don't think it will last as long."
   Illinois's sudden jump in the jobless rate can be
attributed in part to special factors. Midway Airlines last
month shut operations, putting some 3,800 people out of work
in the state. Caterpillar Inc. has endured an 11-week strike
and lockout that has hurt suppliers and sent economic shivers
through large communities such as Peoria, Decatur and Aurora.
   Still, Loleta Didrickson, director of the state's
department of employment security, said the weakness cuts
across industry, geographic and demographic boundaries,
affecting both blue-collar and white-collar workers. In
November, 75 companies cut 50 or more workers. "Illinois is
really feeling the full impact of the recession," says Ms.
Didrickson.
   All this has fed consumer doubts. "We're going downhill,
losing work constantly," says Larry Kelley, president of a
Joliet, Ill., local of the International Association of
Machinists.
   What's more, Chicago, the Midwest's hub, has experienced a
glut of office space, slowing down construction. The city's
Chamber of Commerce estimates that the year-end downtown
office vacancy rate was at 16%, up from 14% six months
earlier. One 65-story building adjacent to the Sears Tower in
the city's business district sits half empty after opening 15
months ago.
   "There's some genuine surprise that we've been hit as hard
as we've been by the recession," says Michael Lawrence, a
spokesman for Gov. Jim Edgar. The Republican governor has
projected a budget deficit of more than $500 million, leading
to talk of cutting such sacrosanct items as education.
   In Michigan, widely reported state budget cuts have
already sliced much of the state's safety net. The Michigan
Humane Society recently decided to hand out free cat and dog
food for those who couldn't afford to feed their pets. But a
Humane Society spokeswoman worries that some people are so
bad off that they are taking the food for their own
consumption.
   While Michigan and Illinois are undoubtedly ailing, the
other Great Lake states -- Wisconsin, Ohio, Indiana and
Minnesota -- are making out relatively well. The disparity
within the region is unusual. Ordinarily, these states sink
or swim together. "States which once went hand in hand into
the recession have broken apart," says First Chicago's Ms.
Swonk.
   Ohio, for instance, ranks right behind Michigan in auto
production. But the presence of foreign car makers has helped
keep the state relatively healthy. Honda Motor Co., which
employs 9,650 people in its three Ohio auto plants, didn't
furlough anyone last year -- or in the last dozen years, for
that matter. And most of its 150 U.S. suppliers are located
in the state.
   "This has been a fun thing to watch because we really got
beaten down in the '80-'81 recession," says James W. Coons,
vice president and chief economist at Huntington National
Bank in Columbus, Ohio.
   In Wisconsin, meanwhile, Gov. Tommy Thompson studiously
avoids saying the state is in a recession. With good reason.
New business incorporations jumped 12.5% in 1991.
Construction spending was down just 1% to $6.8 billion. And
strong exports, propelled by the weak dollar, continued to
prop up the state's manufacturers.
   "The Wisconsin economy is in a growth mode," says Gov.
Thompson, a Republican, who boasts he has a balanced budget
and money in the bank.
   In Indiana, the largest steel-producing state, some
businesses think it has gotten as bad as it is going to get
and that isn't so bad. Nipsco Industries Inc., a utility
serving northern Indiana, sees continued slow growth this
year. While national steel shipments dropped an estimated
7.5% last year, Nipsco expects it to be about flat in 1992.
"We're holding up remarkably well," says Nipsco vice
president, Joe Turner. "We haven't seen any significant
downdraft in the economy." Standard  Poor's Corp. raised the
ratings of the utility's stock and debt last month.
   Nonetheless, there is nervousness about the coming months.
When Dun  Bradstreet Corp. surveyed manufacturing executives
in November, their sentiment was at its lowest since a year
earlier, when the outlook was clouded by the Persian Gulf
conflict. Douglas Handler, manager of econometric analysis
for the business information company, said manufacturers'
expectations improved in December, an indicator that the
sector had reached bottom.
   The full percentage point cut in the Federal Reserve's
discount rate in late December to 3.5% should provide another
boost. The discount rate is the rate on Fed loans to member
banks. With the cost of capital coming down, Mr. Handler
believes the nation is poised for a "manufacturingled
cyclical upturn."
   But Illinois, hit late by the recession, could take longer
to pull out. Executives are still reeling from the jobless
figures announced last week. Illinois Power Co., which serves
the central and southern parts of the state, says it expects
industrial sales to remain flat through this coming year. "It
will take us most of 1992 to get back into a growth mode,"
says the utility's Larry Altenbaumer, vice president and
chief financial officer.
   Even healthy states are worried. Minnesota Gov. Arne H.
Carlson has proposed creating 8,000 construction jobs as part
of what he is calling a "recession response." That despite
the fact that the state boasted a November jobless rate of
5%. A spokeswoman for the governor says the chief concern is
consumer confidence, which could be boosted by "the
surrounding publicity around this type of thing."
   Huntington National Bank's Mr. Coons, who is otherwise
optimistic about the coming months in Ohio, worries, too,
that people "are not hopeful where the economy is going."
   In Illinois, a beleaguered Gov. Edgar looks for
encouraging signs anywhere he can find them. After visiting
the annual National Housewares Manufacturers' show in Chicago
Monday, he sounded upbeat. The show's sponsors told him that
visitors and exhibits were up from last year.
   "I'm hoping that maybe the psychological thing can be
turned around," he said on his return to Springfield, the
state capital, where he continued his battle with the
legislature over the proposed budget cuts.