Coca-Cola's Sprite
   Enters South Korea;
   Local Sprint Follows
   ---
   A Striking Similarity' Exists,
   Says Coke of Its Brand
   Of 31 Years vs. Imitator
   ----
   By Damon Darlin
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Sprite and Sprint are similar in English and in the unique
Korean-language syllabary as well: Supuraitu vs. Supurintu.
Both cans are lime-green color, featuring yellow and green
logos over the next-to-the-last character. Sprint was
launched 10 days after Sprite's entry. "Such activity would
seem to be more than a coincidence," the U.S. company said.
   A spokesman for Lotte Chilsung Beverage Co., the maker of
Sprint, says the name Sprint is registered with the Korean
trademark office. However, a Korean government official says
that Lotte has merely applied for registration; the
registration hasn't yet been approved. The application will
be examined later this year, the official said. Sprite has
been registered to Coca-Cola in Korea since 1985.
   Mr. Shaver of Coca-Cola said he doesn't know if the two
products will result in consumer confusion. He also said the
company hasn't decided whether to file legal action.
Coca-Cola is continuing with its television and print
campaign launched Feb. 8.
   The spokesman for Lotte Chilsung said that the color of
its Sprint product isn't the same and that the capital S of
Sprint is in a different typeface. He also said that Sprint
cans have no pinstripes on them as Sprite cans do.
   Lotte Chilsung, a member of the Lotte Group, a
Japanese-Korean conglomerate, is the largest producer of soft
drinks and juices in Korea; it is also the bottler for Pepsi.
   Coke is the leading soft drink in Korea, the largest
soft-drink market in Asia, after Japan and the Philippines.
About $850 million in carbonated soft drinks were sold in
Korea last year.
   In the past year, the Korean government has taken a
stronger position on protecting trademarks of well-known
foreign brands. However, Lotte is no stranger to imitating
trademarks. Its market-leading Juicy  Fresh chewing gum,
which resembles the yellow wrapper of Wm. Wrigley Jr. Co.'s
Juicy Fruit, has kept Wrigley from entering the Korean
market. A Lotte company also produces a product called
LoSpam. The company has denied that it is infringing on the
trademark of Geo. A. Hormel  Co., the maker of Spam. Lotte
says its name is actually RoseFarm. But because Koreans
pronounce f's as p's and r's as l's, the name thus resembles
LoSpam.
   Nor is it the first time Coca-Cola has had a dispute with
Lotte. In 1982, when Coca-Cola launched Hi-C fruit drinks in
Korea, Lotte immediately introduced Heil-7 fruit drinks,
which dropped out of the market after about a year.