Technology  Health:
   Florida Officials
   Want Du Pont
   Product Probed
   ----
   By David Stipp
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
"There's no common thread to the symptoms" growers have
reported that would suggest they have a common origin, said
Marion Fuller, a toxicologist with the state's Department of
Agriculture. "But we have to respond to public concern" about
Benlate's possible health effects.
   The state's investigation of possible health problems
represents the latest twist in a major pesticide debacle for
Du Pont. Last spring, the Wilmington, Del., chemicals company
pulled the widely sold "dry flowable" or DF form of Benlate
off the market after growers began reporting that it was
hurting their plants. Since then, the company has paid out
more than $200 million to settle growers' claims of plant
damage from Benlate, which is used on ornamental plants,
vegetables and other crops.
   Exactly what is causing the plant damage -- Benlate itself
or a chemical formed when the fungicide breaks down-hasn't
been established. Du Pont denies that the chemical has hurt
humans.
   Yesterday, Florida Environments magazine reported that
four growers who previously used Benlate DF have experienced
mysterious health problems, including fatigue, headaches,
diarrhea and sexual dysfunction. Robert Haines, a former
chemical-company research manager and now a columnist for the
magazine, said some growers also have reported that insects
in greenhouses have died after exposure to Benlate --
suggesting the chemical can hurt animals as well as plants.
   While claims that Benlate has caused health problems in
Florida remain unproven, studies indicate the chemical can
harm male animals' sexual organs. In a study published last
year in the journal Fundamental and Applied Toxicology,
researchers found that after exposure to Benlate, rats'
testes atrophied. "Casual exposure" to Benlate probably
wouldn't similarly harm humans, but accidental heavy exposure
by growers who mishandle the chemical might cause problems,
said Rex A. Hess, a University of Illinois researcher who led
the study.
   He added that rats may be more sensitive than humans to
Benlate, thus the study's results don't necessarily prove
anything about the chemical's toxicity to people.
   A Du Pont spokesman said, "Benlate has been used safely
for 20 years, and we're confident there are no health effects
associated with its proper use." He added that the company
"fully supports" efforts to investigate health concerns about
the fungicide.