Guinness PLC
   Plans to Build
   On Its Strength
   ---
   With 40% of Scotch Market,
   Firm Says the Business
   Has Potential to Expand
   ----
   By Thomas L. Waite
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
Guinness has ridden Scotch, and to a lesser extent gin and
stout beer, to profits that are second only to Coca-Cola Co.
among the world's beverage companies.
   Where will the company turn next?
   Where else? "I think there is going to be growth in Scotch
whiskey," said Crispin Davis, who has been named to lead
Guinness's United Distillers division when the current chief,
Anthony Greener, takes Mr. Tennant's place at the head of the
parent company.
   Other beverage makers have embraced diversification. Bass
PLC owns Holiday Inn hotels. Grand Metropolitan PLC has the
Burger King fast-food chain. Coca-Cola dabbled in Hollywood,
buying and selling Columbia Pictures.
   Such thoughts get a cool reception at Guinness, and at
United Distillers, even the idea of straying too far into rum
or vodka finds resistance. The division's biggest recent push
was into Kentucky Bourbon, which Mr. Davis is quick to point
out is whiskey after all.
   "The focus of United Distillers will always remain on
whiskey, primarily, and gin," Mr. Davis said. "How well we
perform in whiskey and gin will determine how well the
company performs."
   Mr. Davis was referring to United Distillers, but the same
could be said for all of Guinness.
   Despite origins in its namesake black brew, Guinness now
gets two-thirds of its pretax profit from distilling. Scotch
accounts for 80% of that, but the company's Gordon's gin is
also the world leader.
   Guinness bought what was called Distillers Co. in 1986
amid a scandal it finally seems to have put behind it. Former
Chairman Ernest Saunders went to jail for an alleged
share-support scheme, but two trials of advisers to the
takeover collapsed in February.
   In December, Guinness agreed to pay its competitor in the
bid, Argyll Group PLC, #100 million ($175.7 million) in
compensation, or just a seventh of what United Distillers
probably earned in 1991.
   United Distillers has prospered inside Guinness. Profit
margins fattened to 31% of sales in 1990 from 23% in 1986.
Over that period, operating profit rose an average of 29% a
year.
   Mr. Davis, an outsider who joined the company only 18
months ago, said a growth rate above 20% is probably a thing
of the past. But, he said, "We feel pretty confident that we
can maintain above average, superior growth in profit."
   Derek Brock, an analyst with Nomura Research Institute,
said Guinness's profit as a whole should grow 15% annually
vs. a generous assumption of 10% growth for Britain's
industrial companies, which would benefit the most from
economic recovery.
   Mr. Brock expects Guinness to post #950 million in pretax
profit for 1991, up 12% from #847 million in 1990. Barclays
de Zoete Wedd Research Ltd. is calling for #960 million;
Shearson Lehman Brothers puts it at #970 million. All three
expect Guinness to breeze through #1 billion in pretax profit
in 1992.
   Guinness is looking for acquisitions, but Mr. Davis made
clear that purchases won't be the main engine of growth for
United Distillers. He said potential targets would be merely
"fill-in brands" to complement its main Scotch and gin
labels.
   With annual cash intake of more than #700 million and net
debt of only #1.7 billion, Guinness could buy a lot of
growth.
   Mr. Davis said he does see opportunities to develop new
products. The company is working on lower-strength, flavored
liquors, he said. Baileys Irish Cream was made into a money
spinner for Grand Metropolitan by none other than Anthony
Tennant, a former Grand Met employee.
   Unlike most brands that United Distillers buys, Mr. Davis
said, "any new brand we develop, we are looking at it
becoming an international brand."
   Marketing targets will be Grand Met's JB and Allied-Lyons
PLC's Ballantine's, the second-ranked and third-ranked Scotch
brands.
   Mr. Davis said the trend for U.S. drinkers to trade up to
higher-quality Scotch brands slowed in 1991 but should resume
as the U.S. economy recovers.
   In the meantime, Distillers has hedged its bets, picking
up Scoresby, a budget brand, with its purchase of the U.S.'s
Glenmore Distilleries last year.