Foreign Exchange:
   Yen Isn't Likely to Go Into Free Fall
   If Bank of Japan Cuts Discount Rate
   ----
   By Candace Cumberbatch
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
The discount rate, the central bank's charge on loans to
depository institutions, was last changed Dec. 30, when it
was lowered 0.50 percentage point to the current level.
   Easing would diminish the attractiveness of the
already-falling yields in the Japanese credit markets. But
traders say the long-awaited credit relaxation has already
been factored into the yen's level against the dollar.
   Late Friday here, the yen traded at 133.67 to the dollar,
stronger than the 134.20 it traded at late Thursday. The
dollar was trading at 1.6695 marks, unchanged from its late
Thursday quote.
   In Tokyo early Monday, the yen was trading at 133.73 to
the dollar, up a bit from 133.55 at Friday's close in Tokyo.
The dollar was trading at 1.6725 marks, up from 1.6695 marks
on Friday.
   The yen hit 134.75 to the dollar in Tokyo Friday, its
weakest level in nearly six months, but traders say it
recovered after Japanese life insurers heavily covered their
short yen positions. The yen purchases are believed to have
been triggered by concerns about Bank of Japan intervention
at 135 yen.
   In the last few weeks, the BOJ purchased yen against the
dollar a number of times. However, the intervention wasn't
successful because traders have used yen rises on
intervention as opportunities to sell at higher levels.
   The yen won't weaken in "a big way" if there is easing
that matches the market's expectations, says Nori Kato, a
trader at the Industrial Bank of Japan Ltd. in New York. A
discount rate cut of 0.50 to 0.75 percentage point would be
perceived as "neutral," he contends.
   The series of BOJ discount-rate reductions last year has
caused a downturn in Japanese interest rates, but Japan still
hasn't escaped the slowdown in global growth.
   Yasushi Mieno, the governor of the Japanese central bank,
said Thursday that the impact of 1991's three discount-rate
reductions is still being monitored. But speculation about
credit relaxation went unabated despite his remarks.
   If there is a sizable rate cut soon, it probably won't be
a quick cure for the economy. Once weakening sets in, "it
takes a while to break it," says David Resler, chief
economist at Nomura Securities International Inc. in New
York.
   But no one seems to be in a hurry to buy yen. Aside from
the cooling Japanese economy, Japan's political scandals and
weak stock market also have investors worried.
   Politically and economically, Japan "has the weakest
image" among the major industrialized nations, says Mr. Kato
of the Industrial Bank of Japan.
   Friday, the Nikkei index of 225 selected stock issues
traded as low as 20168.15, its lowest level in almost one and
a half years. The index closed 105.82 points lower on the day
at 20456.06.
   The Nikkei Index is a "major key" to the yen's course,
says Mr. Kato, adding that a fall below 20000 would be "major
negative news" in yen dealings.
   Michael Malpede, senior currency analyst at Refco Inc. in
Chicago, anticipates limited yen selling in the near term.
But he says there is still a chance for the yen to falter and
trade at as many as 138 to the dollar at some point.