Check-Kiters' Excuses Won't Fly
   ----
   By John H. Fund
The members have only themselves to blame for their
plight. When the news broke last year that members had kited
more than 8,000 checks in a single year, many members
couldn't understand why the general public was angry. "If the
public is upset over the House's banking flap, I'm ashamed of
'em," said Rep. Bill Clay (D., Mo.). Speaker Tom Foley wanted
to declare the whole matter closed.
   However, younger members, not yet accustomed to the
House's peculiar traditions, forced the bank's closure and
the Ethics Committee probe. Now they say only full disclosure
of all 296 current members who kited checks can clear the
air.
   But the House leadership thinks it can ride out the storm.
"We're going to move on to other issues," says California
Rep. Vic Fazio, who is known as the Prince of Perks for his
support of member privileges. "We're not going to spend our
time eating our young." Columnist George Will sums up the
attitude of House leaders neatly: "They're stonewalling on
the names because they believe the voters won't treat the
information responsibly. That only enrages people more." In
other words, they just don't get it.
   To their credit, some members realize the House needs a
financial fumigation. Rep. Dan Glickman (D., Kan.) wants a
professional administrator to oversee its operations. "The
current system is accountable to no one," he says. "This
place is administered by tradition, scandal and surprise,"
says Rep. George Miller (D., Calif.) "No other private or
public institution functions the way this one does."
   But before any reforms are enacted, the public's fury will
mount as it learns how the bank and the rancid system of
political patronage behind it operated. Here are some of the
most disturbing facts:
   The money in the House bank was public money, and
taxpayers were at risk. Congressional Quarterly found that on
three occasions Congress has spent public money to pay for
losses from previous House bank scandals. The last time was
in 1947 when Congress voted $83,879 (more than $500,000 in
today's money) to repay members who had lost money. At the
time, the U.S. Court of Appeals ruled money in the House bank
belonged to the government.
   When the latest scandal broke, the bank was closed out
without a deficit only because some members squared their
accounts by borrowing from campaign funds. The House
Administration Committee noted: "The fact that no loss
occurred was clearly a happy accident."
   The abuses involved more than bad judgment. Laws may have
been broken. Rep. Frank Riggs (R., Calif.), a former police
officer, says, "There should be a criminal investigation. In
most states, a pattern of such abuse would get you
prosecuted." David Mason of the Heritage Foundation says some
members received what, in effect, were permanent
interest-free loans that could have been worth $1,000 or more
a year. Some members apparently invested their overdrafts in
interest-bearing accounts. This income may not have been
reported on the House's financial disclosure forms or on tax
forms, as the law requires.
   Also, the size and timing of some bad checks make it
likely that some were written just before an election so
members could buy last-minute advertising. If that's true,
Federal Election Commission laws could have been broken if
the transaction wasn't reported.
   The financial behavior of some members verged on the
bizarre. The consistency with which some members wrote bad
checks indicates they either had a complete lack of control
over their lives or unusual financial pursuits. In three
years, one member apparently bounced some 1,000 checks
totaling more than $500,000. The House bank was largely
unwilling to challenge the behavior of members. A few who
were threatened with bank sanctions came up with an ingenious
solution. They would walk over to the House Post Office, the
center of its own recent cocaine and money scandal, and cash
checks for up to $5,000. They then walked the money over to
the House Bank to cover their overdrafts there.
   The definition of a serious bank abuser is laughable. As
the enormity of the scandal sunk in with Ethics Committee
members, they drew up what Rep. Scott Klug (R., Wis.) calls
"The Incredible Shrinking List." Of the 296 current members
who kited checks, some 200 overdrew their next month's salary
at least once, and about 100 of those wrote 45 or more bad
checks in three years. The committee found 55 members had a
clear pattern of abuse. "There's no way someone didn't know
what they were doing was very wrong," says Rep. Nancy Johnson
(R., Conn.)
   Originally, the Ethics Committee intended to name all of
the Kiting 55. Then pressure from the leadership persuaded it
to identify only 19 scapegoats. Arizona Rep. John Kyl, a
committee member, charges that it "doesn't think the public
has the right to know the names of several members who kited
600 or more checks or those who kited checks with a face
value of $100,000 or more."
   Most members who will vote on the release of names have a
clear conflict of interest. Since 296 members, or two-thirds
of the House, overdrew at least one check, check-kiters will
get to serve as their own jury and vote on their own
punishment.
   Members complain they are being held to an ex-post-facto
standard. They argue that no written rules governed the bank,
that the lax behavior of some members tempted others to
follow suit and that some of the bad checks were written by
spouses. All of this may be true, but this Congress has used
up its reservoir of good will with the public.
   The House Bank may serve as a rough-and-ready way to judge
how much a member viewed himself as living above the rules
that others are expected to follow. The bank's guidelines
were unclear, but general ethical norms still applied. More
important, none of the members believed the truth about the
bank would ever come out. They were therefore free to act in
accordance with their own internal moral compass. The voters
should now be trusted to decide how well their own
representative's was set.
   ---
   Mr. Fund is an editorial writer for the Journal.