REVIEW  OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   A Privileged Class
ALEC's findings go a long way toward explaining why 31
states raised taxes a total of $29 billion in fiscal years
1991 and 1992. With wages and benefits making up 60% of state
and local budgets, the explosion in public compensation makes
tax increases inevitable. If public-sector wages and benefits
had grown only as fast as those in the private sector during
the past decade, the $39 billion saved would have meant that
far fewer states would have had to raise taxes last year.
   Municipal unions, the engine driving much of the cost
explosion in government, argue that public employees have
higher skill and educational requirements. But only about
one-eighth of the wage hikes for public employees can be
explained by the differing compositions of the work forces.
All categories of public employment did well during the
1980s. White-collar workers saw their wages rise 2.4 times
faster than private white-collar employees. Service-employee
wages rose 4.5 times as fast. Blue-collar workers (largely
bus drivers and sanitation workers) had a percentage increase
of more than 50 times their private counterparts.
   State public employees ended the 1980s outstripping
private-sector wage gains in 46 states. Local employees did
better in 49 states. But the increases in some states were
phenomenal. In Alaska, California, North Dakota and Rhode
Island, both state and local employees receive compensation
that exceeds their private-sector counterparts by an average
of 20% or more.
   Public employees are also often better off when it comes
to benefits. They average nationally 3.6 days more in paid
holidays, 25% more in paid vacation time after one year of
work, and pension and insurance benefits that average 28%
higher than in the private sector.
   Some public officials realize that their employee wages
and benefits are bleeding their budgets dry. One of the most
outspoken is the new Democratic Mayor of Philadelphia, Ed
Rendell, who was elected on a platform of privatization and
cost-cutting. Mayor Rendell has just announced a proposal to
rescue his nearly bankrupt city. "Our plan makes the only
choice there is -- to cut the cost of city government," he
said.
   Unlike most other big-city mayors, Mr. Rendell says his
city must fix its own problems. He expects no more money from
the state or federal government. And raising taxes in
Philadelphia, which already has the nation's highest wage and
sales taxes, would be "unthinkable."
   Mayor Rendell's plan calls for $1 billion in savings over
five years from union give backs on wages, benefits and work
rules. The unions are already fighting back by filing
lawsuits that claim the plan violates their collective
bargaining rights.
   Layoffs of public workers always pose difficulties. In
Philadelphia, for example, big layoffs from a work force that
already provides inefficient services will hurt city
residents more than most union members and could reduce
public support for Mr. Rendell's reforms. Mr. Rendell could
propose opening up most city services to privatization and
competitive contracting. Such reforms are frequently better
than layoffs because they force both labor and management to
streamline their operations, and end up providing better
services at a lower cost.
   They also can force concessions. When Mayor Wilson Goode,
Mr. Rendell's predecessor, went to the bargaining table in
1988 with two competitive bids for private garbage service,
he won major wage and work rule concessions from city unions.
   In the coming months, Philadelphia will provide a test
case for whether or not a 40-year-old nationwide trend toward
larger, increasingly inefficient and costlier publicsector
work forces can be reversed. If it can't, citizens' faith in
government will continue to fall as they conclude that their
cities and states are being run more for the benefit of their
employees than for their residents.