Inquiry on Alleged Israeli Resales Finds
   U.S. Vulnerable to Other Arms Diversions
   ----
   By Edward T. Pound
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Officials said that auditors for the inspector general,
Sherman Funk, also concluded that the State Department
doesn't have sufficient resources to police exports and that,
in some cases, officials in overseas posts don't want to be
responsible for checking up on arms transactions.
   Mr. Funk is expected to recommend in a public report that
applicants for U.S.-origin arms be checked more carefully and
that department licensing officials step up efforts to verify
how exported items are put to use, officials said.
   "We are sitting on our hands while, at the same time,
we're complaining that other countries are not controlling
their military and technology exports," said a senior State
Department official.
   Mr. Funk's public report is to be released this month.
Classified information detailing Israel's activities, as well
as problems involving exports to several other countries,
will be made available to Secretary of State James Baker and
leaders on Capitol Hill.
   By far the most interest in Mr. Funk's report concerns his
findings on Israel. Mr. Funk has amassed formidable evidence
from U.S. intelligence reports indicating that Israel
re-exported weaponry and technology without first obtaining
Washington's approval for the sales, as the U.S. requires.
   Officials who have reviewed intelligence reports said the
resales included air-to-air missiles to China, anti-tank
missiles to South Africa, and cluster bombs to Ethiopia and
Chile, as well as sophisticated electronic equipment.
   After disclosure of the Funk inquiry, the Israeli Embassy
said in a statement Friday that the government adheres
strictly to U.S. procurement and technology-transfer
regulations. But at the same time, the statement said that
news reports about unauthorized sales "are sensitive matters
which are subject to negotiation" between the U.S. and
Israel.
   Senior officials of the State Department and the Pentagon
will meet this week with Israeli government and industry
officials in Tel Aviv to discuss U.S. licensing requirements.
   Officials said the U.S., for one thing, wants Israel to
specify more clearly what use is being made of U.S. parts
obtained under export licenses. In some cases, the so-called
end-use is described as military research and development,
without specifying the type of weapons system, U.S. officials
said.
   Export licenses for items on the U.S. Munitions List are
issued by the State's Department's Office of Defense Trade
Controls. That office is responsible for enforcing export
laws, but Mr. Funk's auditors found that, along with others
in the State Department, the office repeatedly has failed to
detect unauthorized arms diversions.
   Last year, for instance, the office issued a license for
the sale of 20,000 rounds of ammunition for grenade launchers
to a company in Singapore. When auditors for Mr. Funk checked
on the case, they found that some of the ammunition had been
addressed to a North Korean embassy, according to officials.
   In another case, 2,000 military pistols were exported to a
private company in Israel. But auditors found the Tel Aviv
address where the pistols were supposed to be delivered was,
in fact, a boarded-up building, the officials said.
   The trade controls office was reorganized in January 1990
after Mr. Funk criticized its operations. The office is part
of the Bureau of Politico-Military Affairs, which is headed
by Richard Clarke, an assistant secretary of state. Mr.
Funk's report will recommend that Mr. Clarke be disciplined
for failing to act on intelligence reports primarily
involving Israel.