GM's Debt Is Downgraded by Moody's;
   Big Three Chiefs Warn Japan on Trade Gap
   ----
   Crucial Top Status of Paper
   Of Unit Is Spared; SP
   Cuts Chrysler's Standing
   ----
   By Joseph B. White and Bradley A. Stertz
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
Concern that Moody's and Standard  Poor's Inc. would
revoke their top-tier ratings and thus constrict the market
for GMAC paper has hung heavily over GM since November. It
pushed GM's board and Chairman Robert C. Stempel to speed up
announcement of plans to shut 21 more North American
factories and shed 74,000 more workers.
   GM apparently now has averted a crisis by persuading three
of the four major credit rating concerns to affirm top-tier
status, albeit barely. SP is continuing a review of whether
to downgrade GM's debt and commercial paper.
   Still, a GM spokesman said the auto maker is
"disappointed" that $75 billion in long-term debt was
downgraded to single-A-2 from single-A-1.
   GM stock closed at $33, down 50 cents in late New York
Stock Exchange trading.
   In contrast to the gloomy line from the credit rating
agencies, some stock analysts have been upgrading their
ratings on Big Three stocks. They argue the downtrodden
companies should get a lift this year as the economy recovers
and Japanese auto makers offer concessions.
   Separately, Standard  Poor's Inc. downgraded debt ratings
for Chrysler Corp. and its finance unit further into the junk
bond realm. SP expressed concern that Chrysler's inability
to find a buyer for all or part of the finance subsidiary
could hurt the unit's ability to support Chrysler's
struggling auto business.
   Moody's, meanwhile, said it is reviewing and could
downgrade its ratings on Chrysler's debt.
   Yesterday's actions by the two major credit rating
agencies could increase borrowing costs for both GM and
Chrysler. And the moves underscored the financial woes facing
the two auto makers on the eve of trade talks in Tokyo
tomorrow. The chairmen of the Big Three are expected to seek
trade concessions from Japanese government and auto industry
officials.
   Big Three officials expressed chagrin at suggestions that
the trade talks amount to a surrender in the competition
against Japanese rivals.
   "Contrary to some reports, GM hasn't been defeated by the
Japanese," GM president Lloyd E. Reuss said at a news
conference at the North American International Auto Show in
Detroit. Mr. Reuss added that GM will make decisions "as soon
as we can" on closing factories.
   But Moody's took a skeptical view of GM's plans. "The
proposed realignment program will be insufficient to make GM
fully cost competitive in the global industry," the rating
service said. High pension costs and a labor contract that
forces GM to pay United Auto Workers union employees even
when they don't have work to do will continue to put GM at a
disadvantage in competition with Japanese auto makers, said
Moody's assistant vice president Michael J. Mulvaney.
   Chrysler officials said they were disappointed with SP's
decision to downgrade the company's debt. "We thought we had
demonstrated control of our costs," Chrysler President Robert
A. Lutz said after an auto show news conference in Detroit to
launch the company's new Jeep Grand Cherokee.
   SP said it lowered its rating on the senior debt of
Chrysler and Chrysler Financial Corp. another notch below
investment grade to single-B-plus from double-B-minus. It did
the same for bonds backing the new $1 billion Chrysler
Technology Center north of Detroit in Auburn Hills, Mich.
Chrysler guarantees those bonds.
   The biggest impact of the move by SP will be to increase
the interest rate Chrysler must pay on its $1.1 billion of
Auburn Hills Trust bonds. A Chrysler spokesman said the bonds
now carry a 16.875% rate compared with 15.875% previously.
   SP said its decision reflected concern about Chrysler's
failure so far to sell a stake in Chrysler Financial to an
outside investor. Chrysler Financial has been one of the auto
maker's few profitable bright spots. But debt-rating cuts
have virtually cut off Chrysler Financial's access to
lower-cost commercial paper. That spurred Chrysler executives
to find a way to separate Chrysler Financial's rating from
the auto maker's.
   Rating agency officials hinted they might permit that if
Chrysler sold at least 20% of Chrysler Financial to an
outsider. But talks with several auto makers appear to have
faltered lately.
   Chrysler faces a pressing need to do something, however.
This year, Chrysler Financial must replace $2.9 billion of
borrowings. Another $7.8 billion in debt matures in 1993.
Chrysler said last fall that its subsidiary could be forced
to sell more assets, sell operations not related to the auto
industry and pare back funds for automobile leasing programs.
   Mr. Lutz argued that Chrysler's "cash position is
extremely satisfactory, as will be seen in the fourth-quarter
results that will come out next month." But Scott Sprinzen,
an SP senior vice president, said the agency's concerns
focus on challenges the company will face in 1993.