Bush Isn't Alone in Being Charged
   With Ignoring Domestic Problems
   ----
   By Gabriella Stern
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The problem: Allegations that the Muslim government of
Dushanbe persecutes Jews and other religious minorities,
while the Chinese regime in Lhasa oppresses the Tibetan
population. Such oppression has been a particularly sore
subject in Boulder, which has one of the largest Buddhist
populations in the U.S. Says Councilman Stephen Pomerance, "I
don't like having a relationship with a government that's
oppressive."
   Others on the council, however, are world-peace types who
believe that oppression or not, Boulder should maintain
cultural ties to its sister cities' citizens. Says
Councilwoman DeAnne Butterfield, "The people of Boulder live
on the planet, and if there are things we can do that'll help
us understand other people of the world, there's value
there." Ms. Butterfield adds that if Boulder were to condemn
the sister cities, they would in turn be justified in
severing ties with Boulder for harboring its share of social
problems.
   The council seems less concerned about Boulder's sibling
relationship with the city of Jalapa in Nicaragua, though
council members concede that the Nicaraguan regime isn't
immune to charges of political oppression.
   One more problem: As a token of sisterly love, the
Dushanbe regime 18 months ago presented Boulder with a
2,300-square-foot, hand-carved, wooden teahouse valued at
$750,000. The Mayor's office estimates it would cost at least
$350,000 to erect the building and install plumbing. So, the
teahouse has been languishing in storage in Boulder's
sewage-treatment facility while the city debates how to raise
the money.
   Dushanbe apparently expects Boulder to reciprocate in kind
and has requested a restaurant that serves "typical Boulder
cuisine." Out of the question, says Mayor Leslie Durgin,
referring to the expense, not the politics or Boulder's
cuisine.
   At least one councilman, Bob Greenlee, thinks his
colleagues should forget about global debates and tackle
problems closer to home. "Sometimes I think we ought to fire
our city manager and hire a secretary of state."