Manager's Journal:
   Employers Ignore Expatriate Wives at Their Own Peril
   ----
   By Robin Pascoe
Most women actually start out all right. The excitement
quickly fades for a traveling wife, though, when her husband
abandons her for a regional tour immediately upon arrival and
she's left behind with the moving boxes and the
responsibility of finding good schools. Or when she is left
to hire servants and set up a household without knowing the
language. Her resentment grows when she discovers the company
will force her husband to be habitually absent for the
critical dinner-homework hours because it is considered more
important for him to wine and dine clients or play rounds of
golf.
   Wives in the 1990s are often corporate fast-trackers like
their husbands, but they are asked to jump off their own
career paths and abandon healthy salaries and trustworthy
hairdressers just so that they can watch their self-esteem
vanish somewhere over the International Date Line. Today's
traveling wife wants her career and emotional needs to be
placed on the bargaining table.
   One wife whose husband works for a U.S. automobile company
told me that the only preparation she received before an
assignment to Taiwan was a sheaf of outdated newspaper and
magazine articles. The wife of a Japanese journalist reports
that she received no pre-departure preparation before her
husband's assignments to Manila and Beijing. Another woman
arrived in Beijing just two weeks before the Tiananmen Square
crisis. She received almost no briefing on life in China and
certainly wasn't prepared to cope with an emergency
evacuation. A fourth planned to have her baby in Beijing,
until she arrived, was shocked by the low quality of Chinese
hospitals, and decided that was impossible.
   Not all corporations are guilty. Chrysler sends employees
and their spouses to intense, three-day cross-cultural
sensitization weekends. Employees meet with relocation
professionals in workshops that introduce the employees and
spouses to the culture of the country they are headed for.
These workshops suggest ways of combating or avoiding such
culture-shock symptoms as self-pity, drinking or overeating.
   Procter  Gamble takes its orientation programs even
further: Employees and spouses destined for China spend two
full months in Beijing for language training and cultural
familiarization. This orientation is completely separate from
the assignment.
   Nissho Iwai, a Japanese trading company, provides briefing
seminars for employees and spouses that bring together wives
who are leaving Japan with those who have returned. The
company also provides one year of language training and
extensive information on Japanese schools abroad and the
enrichment programs Japanese children will require to keep
competitive. Japan Airlines publishes a monthly newsletter
that regularly contains interviews with families who live
abroad regarding the problems they will encounter upon
returning.
   Corporations that haven't caught up with these issues can
begin to rectify this situation in the following ways:
   -- Arrange comprehensive pre-departure briefing programs.
Spouses should participate in pre-departure workshops that
introduce them to the host culture. These workshops must
include practical considerations, especially those related to
health and safety. Wives should be told, for instance, how to
be prepared for emergency situations like medical
evacuations. I have heard horror stories from international
schools about the lack of information many arriving families
have about such simple, but critical, matters as
inoculations.
   -- Make "look-see" visits mandatory. Give an employee and
spouse at least one week in the new country well ahead of the
actual moving day. This allows them to visualize their
destination and provides them with a better idea of what to
ship. Parents can also check out schools.
   -- Women must be reassured that culture shock is normal.
Culture shock can go far deeper than the everyday hassles of
learning how to use chopsticks, adjusting to hot weather and
getting locked in a traffic jam. Culture shock may also
include an adjustment to loss of status and pay which
normally comes with a job. The overseas assignment in a new
culture may affect the state of a marriage; frustration with
life in an overseas posting can definitely lead to anger and
resentment toward the working partner. The traveling wife
must be prepared with the knowledge that it may take at least
six months for her to restore her self-confidence and
self-image.
   -- Be creative about career issues. There should be
wholehearted attempts to provide career opportunities for
this amazingly qualified group of potential employees. Rather
than being viewed as the employee's aggravating chattel,
spouses should be considered a company's unexpected bonus --
a resource to be utilized, not patronized. Giving dinner
parties or cocktail receptions for visiting company
executives does not count as satisfying work.
   Corporations should consider establishing part-time jobs
and research contracts. In cases where a wife would like to
upgrade her skills through local or correspondence courses,
the company should foot the bill. Corporations could also
emulate those governments and universities that have
instituted preferential employment policies for spouses. In
Beijing, this means that almost all Western embassies are
staffed with embassy spouses.
   Corporations lose money when they post a family overseas
and, after six months, the wife turns to her husband and says
she is getting out. A wife who has been properly prepared for
the experience is not as likely to want to run away.
   ---
   Ms. Pascoe is author of "Surviving Overseas: The Wife's
Guide to Successful Living Abroad" (Times Publishing,
Singapore, 1992). She has been posted to Bangkok, Taipei and
Beijing.