Foreign Exchange:
   Dollar Slips Against the Mark and Yen
   But Stays in a Tight Range Most of Day
   ----
   By Charlene Lee
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
In early trading Tuesday in Tokyo, the dollar was at
133.53 yen, down from 134.20 yen at Monday's Tokyo close. The
U.S. currency also was trading at 1.6665 marks, down from
1.6775 marks Monday.
   "We're stuck in a range, which means we're building up
momentum to move one way or another in a couple of days,"
said Judy Rubenstein, a vice president for Bank of America,
of Los Angeles.
   During the session, the dollar fluctuated between 1.6644
marks and 1.6783 marks, and it held to an even more narrow
range than that for most of the North American trading day.
   Dealers termed the dollar's weakening a technical
correction as some players unwound dollar holdings after the
currency failed to sustain a small rally Friday.
   "The dollar has given up some of its gains, but overall
there's still bullish sentiment in the market," said Carl
Amendola, assistant vice president in New York for Bayerische
Hypotheken  Wechsel Bank. He said the dollar is likely to
remain trapped between 1.6580 marks and 1.6850 marks until
tomorrow's scheduled release of U.S. durable goods data for
February.
   According to an average of estimates from surveyed
economists, orders for bigticket items are expected to have
picked up by 1.8% last month, compared with a 2.2% gain in
January. Mr. Amendola said a larger-than-expected increase of
2% to 3% in durable goods orders "could be enough" to send
the dollar into a higher trading range above 1.68 marks.
   Additionally, Thursday's final revision of U.S. gross
domestic product figures for the fourth quarter of 1991 could
set a new tone for the dollar, he said. Analysts forecast, on
average, a downward revision in GDP expansion to show 0.6%
growth, compared with an earlier estimate of 0.8%.
   The market also was said to have been sobered by comments
by two Federal Reserve officials reported in yesterday's New
York Times. David Mullins, Federal Reserve Board vice
chairman, and Wayne Angell, Federal Reserve governor,
acknowledged that the recent improvement in U.S. retail sales
and housing starts was the most convincing evidence so far
that the recession was ending, but they said the
manufacturing sector remains weak and employment growth is
likely to lag.
   Messrs. Mullins and Angell also pointed to factors that
could weaken the economy. They said the rise in long-term
interest rates since January could undermine momentum in
housing sales and residential construction, while the
dollar's recent surge could hurt growth in exports.
   While trading in the dollar was mostly quiet, some cross,
or non-dollar, trading was active. Both sterling and the
French franc staged marginal recoveries as participants moved
to buy back short positions taken on the bet that those
currencies would sell lower against the mark.
   The franc encountered heavy selling pressure last week
ahead of Sunday's regional elections in France. As expected,
the ruling Socialist Party captured less than 20% of the vote
as a disillusioned electorate shifted away from mainstream
parties toward extreme-right and environmental movements. The
dollar was quoted at 5.6550 French francs, down from 5.6720
francs. The mark, meanwhile, was trading at 3.3923 francs,
down from 3.3934 francs.
   Sterling also benefitted from some short-covering though
it continues to suffer from uncertainty ahead of the April 9
U.K. elections. Sterling was changing hands at 2.8656 marks,
compared with 2.8633 marks.
   The Canadian dollar, which has weakened sharply in recent
weeks, took the market by surprise, with the U.S. dollar
closing New York dealings at C$1.1921, well below C$1.1978 on
Friday.
   Dealers attributed the Canadian currency's rebound to
statements made over the weekend by Quebec's premier
indicating he favors further negotiations with the rest of
Canada to avoid a referendum on independence for the
province.
   "I think a lot of people saw it as an olive branch, a
willingness to negotiate in good faith," said David Walker,
corporate foreign exchange manager for Toronto Dominion Bank.