Castle Ross Stirs Up
   Medieval Passions
   In Little Todi, Italy
   ---
   Wild-Boar Hunters Bristle,
   Neighbors Fear Helipad;
   Who Is This Signor Steve?
   ----
   By Jane Mayer
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
"The Americans are buying up everything," complains Bruno
Bigaroni, a laborer. And indeed, on a clear day in Todi, you
can see American hotshots forever.
   On one knoll rests the castle of Benno Schmidt, president
of Yale University, and his wife, documentary film-maker and
heiress Helen Whitney. On the next perches the castle of Al
Held, the abstract painter. Clinging to the edge of another
hilltop are the terraced vineyards, swimming pool and wine
cellars of "Torre Olivolo," the castle belonging to the
Peppers: writer Bill and sculptor Beverly. In the valley
beyond, a resplendent stretch of smoky blues, greens and
umbers, is the land recently purchased by Paris-based New
Yorker magazine writer Jane Kramer and her husband, Vincent
Crapanzano.
   Beyond them still, nestled next to a country church, is
the fortress of screen and play writer Jay Presson Allen,
author of the Broadway hits "The Prime of Miss Jean Brodie"
and "Tru," which until recently played across the street from
"A Few Good Men," a musical produced by her husband, Lewis.
Their place is still under renovation: The elevator is in, as
are the five fireplaces. But baffled workmen are still laying
tiles -- upside down -- on the floors to give the place a
rustic look.
   In truth, this Italian version of paradise doesn't need a
lot of decorating. Mr. Bigaroni, the laborer, explains Todi's
appeal to Americans: "We have silence, peace, nothing. But
maybe that's everything."
   That is just what many Americans had until the latest
settler arrived here looking for some peace and quiet.
Suddenly, "Signor Ross," as Steven J. Ross, the chairman of
Time Warner Inc., is known here, has become the talk of tutti
Todi.
   Mr. Ross, 64, has declined to comment on his purchase of
castle "Olmeta" (Elm Grove). But his wife, Courtney, explains
that the couple felt drawn to the unpretentiousness of the
rustic settlement a 1 1/2-hour drive north of Rome. "What my
husband and I found so charming about it," she says, "is that
as {our architect} put it, it's so poor."
   Partly, the glamorous couple had sought anonymity. "We
thought that no one in the world would ever know we were
there," Mrs. Ross says. "Ironically, we find that it's filled
with gossip -- the {Ross} myth has become the message."
   Indeed, Dante Nullo, a canny local contractor, confirms
that "this guy Ross arrives, and everyone gets down on their
knees. They didn't know who he was. He bought the castle, and
it's all anybody talked about. The upper crust was annoyed
because now they have to scoot over." Mr. Nullo recalls one
aristocrat demanding, "Who is this Mr. Ross?"
   The elite Americans who had preceded the Rosses into local
castles weren't much better, greeting the first Big
Businessman to join their ranks with the same kind of barely
concealed resentment, and perhaps envy, that has dogged him
at home. There were also grumbles from local hunters, who
feared new fences might impede their pursuit of wild boar.
(The Rosses have no plans to put up fences.)
   No doubt the scale of the reaction had something to do
with the scale of the Ross purchase. "In comparison with the
others," says Mr. Nullo, the Ross place "is, ah," he says
groping for the right word "immense."
   Not just a single dwelling, "Olmeta" was once an entire
peasant village, housing more than a dozen farm families and
their livestock. The ruin even includes a church, whose altar
is still standing.
   By American standards, the purchase might almost be
construed as a bargain, as castles go. For only about
$450,000, Mr. Ross got a sacked fort, an abandoned car, and
15 acres of startlingly beautiful land. Then again, it cost
another million to buy 240 additional acres. And the pending
renovation by Gae Aulenti, one of the world's most
fashionable architects, will dwarf the initial outlay.
   But it is a certain amount of small-town misinformation
that has really fueled the local talk. Mr. Nullo, for
instance, is among those under the impression that "Signor
Ross has never even seen the castle." (In fact he visited the
castle for about 24 hours in April 1990, before buying it
that May. Mrs. Ross spent an additional week there last
summer.)
   Another common Ross rumor is passed along by native
Todertino Antonio Tacchio, head of the charitable trust that
sold the castle. "Mr. Ross came unannounced, all of a sudden,
in a helicopter] I knew who he was -- the president of
Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer -- because I read a lot. But many, you
know, had never seen a helicopter before." (Actually, many
still haven't. The Rosses arrived in a rented Fiat).
   But rumors of corporate crassness die extraordinarily
hard, particularly, it seems, among the ingrown American
colony, which is breakfasting, lunching and dining out on
every new morsel. Artist and New York restaurateur Edward
Youkilis jokes that the gossiping and socializing has grown
so strenuous, he now comes to Todi only in the off-season,
"so I can get some peace and quiet."
   Although most of the backbiting occurs in private, one
little issue with the Rosses did erupt. It involved, again,
the fabled helicopter which, rumor had it, the Rosses were
planning to commute in regularly. Mr. Tacchio says that
Beverly Pepper, the sculptor whose castle is just down the
hill from Olmeta, "told me that she felt a helicopter landing
pad there would be almost profane." Mrs. Pepper was
unavailable to discuss the sore topic. But her husband
acknowledges a friendly confrontation. "Courtney Ross
promised there will be no helipad," he says. With a glance up
the hill, he adds, "We are delighted, delighted to have them
here."
   As Mrs. Ross recalls it, "I was amazed that anyone thought
we'd ever want to disturb this beautiful, spiritual place
with a helicopter."
   But from the standpoint of Ufenia Filipetti, 69, a
pink-cheeked peasant woman, Olemta could stand some
improvement. She used to live with her tenant-farming husband
above their pigs, sheep, chickens and cows in one small part
of the cluster of buildings Mr. Ross has now purchased. There
was no heat, no water and no plumbing. "We had to carry the
water from the well on our heads. It was very hard work.
Olmeta wore my husband out," she says.
   As the years passed, and as agricultural reform drove
sharecroppers off the land, Olmeta was gradually depopulated.
The only tenant left during the last five years was a
shepherd, Fulvio Testa, who now lives with his flock in the
mountains. Finally, the charitable trust which had held the
land in part to finance a rest home for indigent farmers,
gave up and began auctioning off the abandoned castles.
   "Why," Mrs. Filipetti asks, "would an American millionaire
want to live there?"