IRS Ruling May Make It Costly for Firms
   Hit by Liability Suits to Enter Chapter 11
   ----
   By Scott R. Schmedel
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The ruling, which could be appealed in court, concerns an
unidentified corporation that survived a swarm of lawsuits
against it by throwing the settlement of the claims into a
Chapter 11 proceeding.
   Thus, it could be an issue in IRS audits of the back taxes
of companies that have been in Chapter 11, such as Manville
Corp., the A.H. Robins subsidiary of American Home Products
Corp., Texaco Inc. and  Eagle-Picher Industries Inc., says
Robert Willens, a senior vice president of the Lehman
Brothers investment-banking unit of American Express Co.
   Manville declined to say whether it was the subject of the
IRS ruling. Beset by asbestos-injury suits, Manville in 1982
became the first company to use Chapter 11 to work out a
solution to liability claims. It completed the proceedings in
November 1988.
   American Home Products, Texaco and Eagle-Picher all said
the ruling wasn't directed at them. Texaco and Eagle-Picher
had no comments on the ruling. But a spokesman at American
Home Products said, "We know the issue is going to come up in
audits, and it means a lot of work for the IRS and the
company."
   The expenses in question include not only professional
fees paid to outside lawyers, accountants and consultants,
but also part of the salaries paid to employees of the
company's own legal department. The amount of expenses wasn't
disclosed.
   The ruling was issued in confidence last May, sometime
after the company had worked out a court-approved plan to pay
its debts and had emerged from Chapter 11. The IRS recently
released an expurgated version as Technical Advice Memorandum
9204001. In the ruling, the IRS comments that it's taking a
position on an issue that the courts haven't tackled yet.
While such private rulings aren't legal precedents, they
often foreshadow stands that the IRS will take in court.
   For that reason, the ruling is "a real disincentive" for a
corporation to resort to Chapter 11 protection from creditors
if it faces huge claims for such things as product liability,
says David Berenson, national director of tax policy for the
accounting firm Ernst  Young in Washington.
   Mr. Berenson says the IRS has created a surprising
conflict between the tax code and the rehabilitative
intentions of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code, which provides a
number of tax breaks to troubled companies.
   The most troubling aspect for Mr. Berenson is
inconsistency in the tax treatment of a transaction. He
contends that the disputed fees clearly would be deductible
as ordinary and necessary expenses derived from the company's
business if the company weren't in Chapter 11.
   The ruling grew out of an audit dispute. The company had
deducted all of the expenses in the two years they were
incurred, arguing that they originated in the litigation
arising from its business. The resolution of that litigation
was "the dominant aspect" of the bankruptcy proceeding, the
company declared.
   But IRS auditors denied all the deductions, on the ground
that they stemmed from a proceeding that resulted in a
corporate reorganization to preserve the company's existence.
Expenses of operating a business in Chapter 11 are
deductible, but costs of a corporate reorganization generally
must be capitalized, in or out of a bankruptcy proceeding.
   Seeking to resolve this dispute, the ruling by the IRS
national office for the first time distinguishes between two
kinds of expenses in a case of this kind. It says the company
should have a chance to substantiate deductible expenses.
Examples of such outlays, it says, are the costs of meetings
to try to settle a liability claim outside the bankruptcy
proceeding and of time spent reviewing complaints filed in a
court other than the bankruptcy court.
   This bifurcation approach is "out of character" for the
IRS, Mr. Willens comments, for usually the agency says that
expenses either are all deductible or must all be
capitalized. Yet he sees it as a correct interpretation and a
favorable development in IRS reasoning that could lead to
more equitable rulings in cases where transactions have a
dual character.