Law -- Legal Beat:
   Milbank Tweed Dismisses Lawyers
   Kept On in 1980s as Non-Partners
   ----
   By Ellen Joan Pollock and Jonathan M. Moses
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
The senior-attorney program at the 450-lawyer New York
firm was instituted as a way to keep associate lawyers at the
firm even though they had failed to reach the partnership
ranks after eight years. Previously, lawyers who did not make
partner at that point were asked to leave.
   Many law firms started such programs during the 1980s. At
the time, the "up-or-out" tradition made little sense because
law firms were unable to recruit enough associates, and
experienced lawyers, who billed at near-partner rates, were
in demand. The downturn in the economy, however, has left
many law firms with too many lawyers performing too little
work.
   Jacob J. Worenklein, a member of Milbank's executive
committee, said that the decision to abolish the program was
part of the firm's efforts to become "a lower cost provider
of legal services." He said that clients would benefit by
having more junior lawyers do their work at lower rates.
Milbank said in a memo to its lawyers that the plan "will
increase our competitiveness over the long term and enable us
to offer improved training" for young lawyers.
   The policy change, which will take place over a two-year
period, is expected to affect nearly 30 salaried lawyers,
most of whom will be given at least one year's notice.
   Milbank, founded in 1866, is best known for its
financial-services work. The law firm's clients include the
Chase Manhattan Bank and the Rockefeller family, Citicorp's
Citibank and the Teachers Insurance  Annuity Association of
America.
   Wendeen H. Eolis, a New York legal consultant, said that
similar changes are "being seriously considered in better
than half a dozen firms whose partners have consulted with me
about it." She said that other firms, without formally
abolishing non-partnership career tracks, have been
discharging lawyers from those ranks "more aggressively than
{from} among other groups of associates."
   ---
   BLACK EMPLOYEE is ordered removed from job in
reverse-discrimination case.
   Judge Joyce Hens Green of the federal trial court in
Washington, D.C., issued the unusual order in the case of a
woman denied a municipal job because she is white. The judge
said that the black woman now holding the post of
administrator of the D.C. Armory must be removed so the white
plaintiff can receive a promotion she should have gotten.
   More typically, a judge will order that an employer must
give a victim of discrimination a job equivalent to the one
she was improperly denied. But Judge Green said in her
decision earlier this week that "the position of armory
manager is one-of-a-kind . . . one for which no equivalent
vacancy could be projected." The armory houses the Washington
detachment of the National Guard and is the site for various
entertainment events. It is supervised by city and National
Guard officials.
   Judge Green acknowledged that "while it is certainly a
harsh result that another person has to be displaced by this
remedy," the city and the guard "are in the best position" to
make sure that the displaced administrator receives a
transfer or some other form of relief. Beverly Burke, a
lawyer for the city, said officials are considering an
appeal, but she declined to comment on what might happen to
the incumbent armory manager, Mary Wilhoite.
   A lawyer representing the victorious plaintiff, Betty
Underwood, said she intended to take the armory post even
though she is 65 years old. Ms. Underwood is also seeking
hundreds of thousands of dollars in back pay as part of her
lawsuit.
   Judge Green said in her opinion that Ms. Wilhoite received
the post in late 1981 because city officials wanted a black
person to be hired. Ms. Underwood, a veteran armory employee,
was clearly more qualified and deserved the job, Judge Green
said.
   (Underwood vs. D.C. Armory Board, U.S. District Court,
Washington, D.C., Civ. Act. No. 83-2843)
   ---
   LAWYERS GET $795,000 in class action that provided no
money for clients.
   Justice Helen E. Freedman of New York State Supreme Court,
a trial court, decided to award the fees to plaintiffs'
lawyers despite written objections by some members of the
plaintiffs' class.
   The two-year-old litigation arose out of complaints' about
compound interest that brokerage firms charge on margin
accounts. The plaintiffs' lawyers argued that such a practice
was illegal under New York law. They sought damages and an
order prohibiting future compounding.
   But after the litigation began, the New York Legislature
passed a law specifically allowing the compounding of
interest on the accounts. No longer able to ask for an order
prohibiting the practice, the plaintiffs' lawyers agreed to a
settlement requiring that customers be notified of it. The
agreement also provided that the seven brokerage houses pay
more than $1 million in legal fees to the lawyers.
   Justice Freedman, in her decision issued last week,
reduced the fees by about 25%, saying that while the quality
of legal work was high, she wasn't sure all of it was
necessary. However, she rejected the arguments by about dozen
class members that the litigation was frivolous.
   "We had a super case until the legislature changed the
law" to allow compounding, said Mordecai Rosenfeld, one of
the plaintiffs' lawyers.
   ---
   FREE DEFENSE must be provided by New Jersey lawyers, court
rules.
   In a unanimous decision, the New Jersey Supreme Court
ruled that all attorneys in private practice will be required
to provide free legal services to criminal defendants in
towns that don't employ salaried public defenders. The ruling
comes at a time when many state courts are considering
whether to require attorneys to defend indigent clients
without charge.
   Last year, a Texas state district judge dismissed a
lawsuit that sought to force the State Bar of Texas to
require lawyers to provide a designated amount of free legal
service each year. Now New York State Chief Judge Sol
Wachtler is mulling a proposal to require that all lawyers
provide free legal service on behalf of the poor and
not-for-profit organizations.
   The New Jersey case involved the failure of the township
of Delran to pay a lawyer who defended an indigent defendant
in a drunken driving case. The lawyer, Allen S. Ferg, claimed
in a lawsuit that the town had taken his property without
just compensation.
   Chief Justice Robert N. Wilentz, writing for the court,
rejected the constitutional claim and ordered that, beginning
May 1, even attorneys who don't practice criminal law will be
assigned municipal court cases in towns without public
defenders.
   Mr. Ferg said he won't appeal the decision. But he called
the ruling a "terrible solution" because, he said, most
lawyers without a criminal specialty aren't skilled enough to
operate in criminal courts.
   (Madden, Ferg et al. vs. Township of Delran, N.J. Supreme
Court, Feb. 10, 1992)
   ---
   POLLSTER PATRICK CADDELL owes lawyers $264,000 in fees,
judge rules.
   The default judgment by a federal judge in Manhattan comes
despite requests by the New Hampshire primary campaign
manager for former California Gov. Jerry Brown that the judge
give Mr. Caddell more time to respond to the suit filed last
October by the New York law firm Paul, Weiss, Rikind, Wharton
 Garrison.
   Judge Thomas J. Griesa set a hearing for Feb. 18 to
determine if Mr. Caddell has to pay additional damages to
Paul Weiss. Mr. Caddell may also have to pay interest. Mr.
Caddell, who served as pollster to President Carter and has
worked in other Democratic presidential campaigns, did not
return phone calls seeking comment.
   Mr. Caddell had retained Paul Weiss to sue Doak  Shrum
Inc., a political consulting firm, over fees earned on the
1986 campaigns of California Sen. Alan Cranston and
Pennsylvania's Gov. Robert Casey, and others. The case
settled on Dec. 19, according to Gregory B. Craig, a lawyer
in the Washington office of Williams  Connolly, who
represent Doak  Shrum. Mr. Craig would not comment on the
terms of the settlement.
   At the time Paul Weiss sued seeking legal fees from Mr.
Caddell, the pollster said the suit was the result of a
misunderstanding. Paul Weiss, home to several leading
Democratic lawyers, agreed to hold off on their suit for one
month while they negotiated with their former client.
   But in November, Paul Weiss began attempting to serve
summonses on Mr. Caddell giving him until Jan. 6 to respond.
On Jan. 6, according to court papers, Brown campaign aide
Michael Borbeau requested and received an extension until
January 14. Mr. Caddell's subsequent failure to respond to
the suit triggered the default judgment by Judge Griesa.
   Reached at Mr. Brown's Manchester campaign office, Mr.
Borbeau said he got involved in the case because Mr. Caddell
is a friend of Mr. Brown's. The Brown campaign said that Mr.
Caddell has no formal role in the Californian's 1992
presidential bid.
   ---
   BASKETBALL PLAYERS to get more National Basketball
Association money.
   In a settlement with the players association, the NBA
agreed to increase the players' share of NBA revenue by $50
million to $60 million, covering the 1992-93 and 1993-94
seasons. Each NBA team's share of the extra money will be
calculated under a complex formula.
   In their lawsuit, players had charged that the NBA used
accounting gimmicks to exclude some revenue, including skybox
rentals, foreign broadcast rights and arena advertising, from
gross-revenue calculations. Players get a percentage of gross
revenue in return for accepting a cap on their salaries. The
players' total of the gross last year was $365 million.
   The settlement, which was reached late last week, doesn't
mean the NBA is acknowledging liability, said a league
spokesman. The league and players "agreed to disagree" for
now over whether skybox rentals and other income should be
part of gross revenue, said James W. Quinn, a New York lawyer
for the players association. The extra money will be drawn
from a variety of sources, including licensing.