Mutual Funds:
   Stock Funds Had
   A Record Inflow
   During December
   ----
   By Jonathan Clements
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
"I'm basking in the success of January," says Tim Pitts,
an Oppenheimer executive vice president. "It's really been a
great month for us."
   December's $7.4 billion inflow into stock funds was well
ahead of the prior record month, January 1987, when stock
funds attracted $5.9 billion.
   Bond and stock fund sales are being propelled partly by
their strong investment performance in 1991, when stock funds
surged an average 35.6% and taxable bond funds gained 18.2%.
But sales have also been buoyed by the lack of attractive
alternatives, with one-year certificates of deposits and
money market funds yielding about 4%.
   January's huge inflows follow a bonanza 1991, when bond
mutual funds attracted $67.2 billion, their best showing
since 1986, and stock funds pulled in $38.3 billion, a new
full-year record.
   These figures, which come from the Investment Company
Institute, reflect mutual fund sales less redemptions, plus
the net result of switches among funds in the same fund
group. Reinvested dividends are excluded.
   The frenzied interest in stock funds has created problems
for fund companies, especially smaller outfits. Denver's
Financial Funds has fielded 120,000 calls from investors this
month, up from 92,000 in December. Many callers have been
kept on hold for long periods, and some have gotten busy
signals.
   Twentieth Century, which manages some of 1991's
top-performing stock funds, has received 150,000 requests for
fund prospectuses this month, three times the level of a year
earlier. "We're mailing stuff out as fast as we can run the
machinery," says Gunnar Hughes, a Twentieth Century
spokesman.
   January's huge stock fund inflows may have been partly
caused by investors delaying their purchases until after
stock funds made their year-end capital gains distributions.
Investors have to pay taxes on these distributions, even if
they have only just bought fund shares. "There was some
pent-up demand," says Henry Schmelzer, president of TNE Fund
Group, a unit of New England Mutual Life Insurance Co.
   Over the past four weeks, the appetite for stock funds has
soared, according to a survey conducted for Fidelity
Investments by the University of Michigan Survey Research
Center. The survey found that 37% of mutual fund owners plan
to add to their stock fund holdings over the next three
months, up from 13% in December. These percentages are
calculated by subtracting those planning to sell stock funds
from those planning to buy.
   During December, the cash holdings of stock funds remained
steady, at more than $30 billion. But because of December's
stock market run-up, cash as a percentage of stock fund
assets dropped to 8.4% from 9.3% in November.
   Bond funds, meanwhile, have continued to gain assets
because of the sharp discrepancy between bond and money fund
yields. At T. Rowe Price Associates, for instance, the top
seller this month has been its recently-launched
adjustable-rate mortgage fund. The Baltimore fund group is
currently absorbing all of the new fund's expenses, so that
the fund now yields 7.34%, compared with 4.45% for the firm's
taxable money fund.
   Huge stock and bond fund cash inflows are often taken as a
signal that a market correction may be imminent. But Jon
Fossel, chairman of Oppenheimer Management Corp., reckons
that small investors may actually be doing the right thing.
   "Maybe, just maybe all this money coming out of CDs isn't
dumb, it's smart," contends Mr. Fossel. He says that, over
long periods, bonds and stocks should outperform certificates
of deposit. "Oftentimes, we label the individual investor as
stupid. What is he doing? He's taking money out of CDs, and
that may in fact be very wise, not very dumb."