Corporate Focus:
   Corning Is Feeling the Heat in Breast Implant Debacle
   ---
   Company Had a Hand in Dow Corning,
   But Is It Liable for Alleged Misdeeds?
   ----
   By Joan E. Rigdon
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
But these days, Corning's darling is a prodigal son. "We
don't comment" on separate companies, a spokesman says.
   Dow Corning's breast implant debacle is shaping up to be
the biggest potential litigation and public relations
nightmare of Corning's 141-year history. The Corning name,
once known for the squeaky-clean and well-managed company
that made casserole dishes, Pyrex beakers and medical
equipment, now is associated with faulty breast implants that
allegedly cause immune disorders and skin disease.
   As angry women and product liability lawyers swarm to sue
the Midland, Mich., venture for allegedly rushing the
implants to market without adequate testing, Corning's stock
has plunged from a 52-week high of $86.25 just a month ago to
yesterday's close of $60.625 on the New York Stock Exchange.
   Corning officials insist the collapse isn't justified.
However, the incident shows how vulnerable a successful
company is to a questionable product that's associated with
its name.
   To be sure, the jury is still out on whether silicone
breast implants are unsafe. Just this week, Britain's chief
medical officer issued a statement saying they are safe; but
the U.S. Food and Drug Administration has temporarily banned
the implants. It meets next month to decide whether to make
the ban permanent.
   The question now hovering over Corning is whether it is
liable for Dow Corning's alleged misdeeds. That hinges on one
key issue: Does it or can it control Dow Corning? "Or are
they funding it hoping for the best?" asks Minneapolis
attorney Bruce A. Finzen, whose firm litigated Union Carbide
Corp.'s Bhopal, India, chemical disaster on behalf of the
Indian government.
   Corning clearly has a hand in Dow Corning's business.
Besides owning half of the company, it has five
representatives among the 14 members of Dow Corning's board,
including Corning Chairman Houghton. (Dow Chemical also has
five representatives on the board, while Dow Corning itself
has four.)
   Company literature also points to a research overlap. In
Corning's 1990 annual report, Chairman Houghton said Dow
Corning was formed in 1943 to "market the silicones created
in a Corning laboratory." A Corning spokesman says the 1940s
marked the first and last time the two companies shared
research. Currently, "we do not share our research with
them," he notes.
   Thomas Talcott, a materials engineer who worked for Dow
Corning for 24 years before resigning over the breast implant
issue, agrees that Corning wasn't involved in the development
of the implants. "I don't think they had any involvement,"
Mr. Talcott says, adding that his doubts about the implants
never reached the board. "I think what the board of directors
heard was, things are going great."
   If courts agree, that could protect Corning. Mr. Finzen
says Union Carbide was deemed culpable in its Indian
subsidiary's disaster at Bhopal partly because Union Carbide
designed the plant from which poisonous gas leaked in 1984,
killing or injuring thousands of people in the area, and it
trained Bhopal workers at Union Carbide facilities in West
Virginia.
   But even if Corning isn't liable for its joint venture's
potential damages, the Corning, N.Y., company stands to lose
a big chunk of earnings if Dow Corning suffers. Last year,
Dow Corning contributed 27% of corporate earnings, down from
28.3% the year before and 30.3% in 1989.
   That thinking caused investors to stampede out of Corning
stock a month ago when it was trading in the mid-$80 range.
But now that the stock is trading around $60, analysts are
recommending the stock. Corning "is attractive even under a
worst-case scenario" of a Dow Corning bankruptcy, says
Prudential Securities analyst B. Alex Henderson, who on
Monday changed his recommendation on the stock to "buy" from
"hold."
   Wall Street's faith is based on Corning's mix of
profitable businesses, including medical testing and optical
fiber, which is being used to replace copper wire in
telephone lines. These businesses have been growing while Dow
Corning's contributions are shrinking, says PaineWebber Inc.
analyst Kim Ritrievi.
   Meanwhile, Corning's image has been tarnished. One company
manager, who asks not to be identified, says that he is often
mistaken for a Dow Corning employee when he travels. "A lot
of people have that problem," he says.
   The confusion partly arises from Corning's ringing silence
on how it has been affected by Dow Corning's problems. Mr.
Houghton, who is usually accessible, has declined to comment.
His only public statement was in a Jan. 14 press release, in
which he complained that Corning stock's 10-point drop the
previous day was a "gross overreaction."
   Crisis management experts are dubious of Corning's public
relations strategy. "They're saying, `Gee, we don't have a
problem. Let's stick our head in the sand. Maybe it will go
away,'" says Norman L. Harris, editor of Crisis magazine,
Columbus, Ohio. Corning may want to avoid liability by not
commenting on Dow Corning's business, but it should comment
on whether its investment in Dow Corning is safe, Mr. Harris
says.
   ---
                   Corning by the Numbers
                                                                                                       

                     The Fundamentals
                                                                                                       

                                        1990      1989
                                                                                                       

   SALES ($ billions)                  $2.04     $2.44
   NET INCOME ($ millions)              $292      $261
   EARNINGS PER SHARE                  $3.10     $2.80
                                                                                                       

   MAJOR PRODUCT LINES:
                                                                                                       

   Celcor ceramic cores for catalytic converters; Siecor
optical fiber cable; Corning Ware, Visions and Corelle
cookware; Steuben crystal; Serengeti sunglasses.
                                                                                                       

   MAJOR COMPETITORS:
                                                                                                       

   Anchor Hocking (in consumer products); American Telephone
 Telegraph Co. (in telecommunications); SmithKline Beecham
(in lab services); and Schott, NGK and PPG Industries, (in
specialty materials)