Your Money Matters:
   Stock-Bond Switchers Are Underachievers
   ----
   By Earl C. Gottschalk Jr.
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Many investors like the idea. The 77 asset-allocation
funds tracked by Lipper Analytical Services Inc. have $8.3
billion, up from $5.4 billion a year ago.
   But a number of financial professionals say many of these
funds don't deliver the results investors may hope for.
"They're a high-tech product that hasn't delivered a
high-tech performance," says John Rekenthaler, editor of
Morningstar Mutual Funds, a publication that tracks fund
results. In general, he says, "they haven't been good
investments."
   Asset-allocation funds' total returns have trailed not
only those of the average stock fund in recent years, but
also those of their closest mutual fund relative -- the
old-fashioned "balanced" fund, many of which keep a fairly
stable 60%-40% mix of stocks and bonds.
   According to Lipper Analytical Services, the average
asset-allocation fund that shifts money among mostly U.S.
investments returned a cumulative 44.6% over the past three
years. And the newest product, asset-allocation funds that
shift funds around the world, did even worse, returning a
total of 30%.
   In comparison, the average balanced fund returned 51%, and
the average stock fund returned 59.4% over the past three
years, Lipper's numbers show.
   The problem is that asset-allocation funds "are structured
on the shaky assumption that they can forecast the market
correctly" and can shift funds to take advantage of that
forecast, says John Markese, director of research for the
American Association of Individual Investors. But no one can
accurately forecast the market over the long term, he says.
   And the cost of moving the money around means that
asset-allocation funds have higher expenses than the balanced
funds, says Mr. Rekenthaler.
   The less-than-stellar performance might be worth it if the
funds really protected investors in a market downturn.
Indeed, asset-allocation funds didn't take off until after
the 1987 stock-market crash, when many fund groups converted
existing funds into asset-allocation funds or started new
ones in response to investors' fears.
   It isn't clear, however, whether these funds really would
protect an investor in a significant market slide. Most of
them don't have long-term track records, says Michael Lipper,
president of Lipper Analytical Services. "There weren't
enough of them around in the October 1987 crash to make a
test," he says.
   In 1990, the market's most recent off year,
asset-allocation funds lost money, though not quite as much
as the average stock fund. Lipper Analytical's numbers show
that in the worst quarter of that year, the third quarter,
the average general stock fund fell 15.5%. The average U.S.
asset-allocation fund declined 8.7%, and the average global
asset-allocation fund slipped 7.1%.
   But the average balanced fund provided downside protection
just about as good -- an 8% drop in the 1990 third quarter.
   Kurt Brouwer, of Brouwer  Janachowski, a San Francisco
investment adviser, doesn't think the asset-allocation funds'
"trade-off" of some downside protection for lazy performance
on the upside "is worth it." Says he: "Quite frankly, they
haven't done as well as the balanced funds. Their black boxes
need some tinkering."
   Investors considering these funds should study the
prospectuses. The funds' strategies vary widely -- as do
their risks and their returns, says John C. Bogle, chairman
of Vanguard Group, the big Valley Forge, Pa., mutual fund
family.
   Some funds are "stock-bond plays with very little cash,"
says Mr. Rekenthaler. "Others are go-go funds that radically
adjust what they are doing constantly. Some of these wild
players have hurt" the returns of the asset-allocation
category.
   Fidelity Asset Manager Fund, which has $1.1 billion of
assets, says it's a "conservative to moderate" risk
asset-allocation fund. It can move only within certain
parameters. Its normal exposure to stocks is 30%, but it can
go as high as 50% in stocks or as low as 10%. Normal bond
exposure is 40%, but it can move to a maximum of 60% or to a
minimum of 20% in bonds. In the past 12 months, through Feb.
6, the fund had a total return of 16.7%.
   In contrast, Shearson Lehman Brothers Multiple
Opportunities Fund, which has $129 million, is allowed to
invest in just about every type of security available. It can
move into U.S. and foreign stocks, bonds, cash, options and
commodities futures. It can also sell short and leverage its
assets by borrowing money. In the past 12 months, the
Shearson fund lost 1.2% on a total-return basis.
   The newest wrinkle among asset-allocation funds is the
global allocator, which not only shifts money from asset
class to asset class but from country to country. Vanguard's
Mr. Bogle thinks global asset-allocation funds are just too
complicated. "I'm skeptical of a system that can get all
those layers right," he says. "This is asking just too much
of a manager."
   Mr. Markese suggests investors do their own
diversification, investing in several stock and fixed-income
mutual funds. He suggests splitting your stock money by
thirds into a good large-company stock fund, a small-company
fund, and an international stock fund. Fixed-income money
should go in a money-market or short-term bond fund. "Be
diversified but don't try to move the money around," he says.
   Mr. Brouwer recommends that conservative investors who
want some stock exposure use balanced funds instead of
asset-allocation funds. He suggests three that don't charge a
sales fee: CGM Mutual Fund, (a 28.7% total return in the 12
months through Feb. 6); Fidelity Balanced Fund (19.5%); and
Vanguard's Wellington Fund (15.5%).