Unocal Building Signals Landmark Duels
   ---
   Issue Is of Structures
   Still Relatively Young
   ----
   By Ross Miller
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
Perhaps, but for many architects and preservationists,
beauty and efficiency are almost beside the point. Instead,
they see the Unocal building's fate as a precursor to the
preservationists' major battle of the '90s: the fight to save
buildings that are too young to live.
   For 25 years, preservationists have used federal and state
laws, tax breaks and public-relations campaigns to force and
persuade landlords not to destroy or alter significant old
buildings. The list of saved buildings is a long one,
including such well known and familiar landmarks as Grand
Central Station in New York and Wrigley Field in Chicago.
   But with so-called baby monuments, the old tactics don't
work. For one thing, federal and local laws generally only
protect buildings that are at least 50 years old. In
addition, many of these younger buildings haven't been around
long enough to win a consensus among academics and
professional historians as significant. And, perhaps most
important, few of them inspire the public to rise in protest;
they are not what most people would consider conventionally
beautiful.
   "Saving these old office buildings is difficult because
we're nearer in time, and people don't think of things they
use everyday as art," says Robert A.M. Stern, an architect
who heads the Preservation Department at Columbia
University's Graduate School of Architecture. "But unless
this attitude changes, the next generation will kill off the
previous one, mindlessly and wholesale."
   The problem is just beginning to crop up, as some of the
baby monuments reach the age where they are economically
questionable. Moreover, with the commercial real estate
industry in a recession, most new construction is on hold.
But preservationists predict widespread demolitions as soon
as the economy improves.
   Preventing those demolitions, however, will be tough.
After all, it's relatively easy to persuade the public to
save one-of-a-kind gems like Frank Lloyd Wright's Guggenheim
Museum in New York or Louis Kahn's Kimball Museum in Fort
Worth, Texas. But the very thing that makes many baby
monuments valuable -- their ordinariness -- also makes them
vulnerable.
   Roger Kennedy, director of the National Museum of American
History in Washington, D.C., cautions against paying
excessive attention to the architectural gems in a city while
the background that creates a context for them is
annihilated. "We have to look at the whole setting," he says.
"We're in trouble if we have to knock the tooth out before we
know how pretty the teeth were."
   Office buildings are a particularly hard sell, says
Timothy Brandt, an architect with the Historic Resources
Group in Los Angeles, because their destruction doesn't get
people angry. "A corporation owned it," says Mr. Brandt. "It
has no sentimental value. People are not emotional about
offices."
   Nowhere is this clearer than with the example of the
12-story glass and steel Unocal building. Built in a rundown
area that had not seen first-class architecture before, it
represented the optimistic attitudes of the day. The tallest
building in the city, it sat on a hill, 70 feet higher than
the buildings downtown to the east.
   Crescent-shaped, more like a boat than the usual
right-angled glass boxes of its day, the Unocal building had
a double wall to accommodate permanent shades as protection
against the often punishing Southern California sun. The
first new building in town for a single client, it was
bowed-out towards the freeway, a graceful acknowledgment that
these new multi-lane roads would be the streets of the city's
future.
   The Unocal building remained for years the only thing on
dilapidated Crown Hill. No builders followed the oil company
-- which is now called Unocal Corp. -- west of the Harbor
Freeway, preferring the company of the increasingly glitzy
Los Angeles skyline only a mile away.
   Then in 1988, Unocal saw a wonderful opportunity. The land
around its headquarters had inflated in value, and would be
particularly attractive to a buyer if the Unocal building
wasn't there. So the corporation sold its property for about
$200 million to UC Land Associates, a closely held affiliate
of Hillman Properties, Newport Beach, Calif. Hillman and its
co-developer, Smith  Hricik Urban Development Inc., now plan
a major development -- called Los Angeles Center -- which
will include five office towers and a 500-room hotel. Unocal,
which has been leasing back its old headquarters, will
relocate to 23 floors of one of the new 43-story office
towers. The old building will be torn down.
   While granting that the old Unocal headquarters is a
"lovely piece of nostalgia," architect Scott Johnson, the
principal design partner at Johnson, Fain  Pereira, and the
partner in charge of designing the new buildings, says that
it won't be missed. Unocal "holds its place in history," he
says, "but it doesn't meet the ergometrics of the office."
   For him, the old Unocal building -- which ironically was
designed by former principals of his own firm -- was doomed
by its outdated "monolithic" plan, with each floor similarly
and inflexibly divided by interior walls and a core where all
the utilities crowded out rentable space. The building's plan
also didn't provide the sorts of open floors required for
modern telecommunications and computing. And the cost of
modernizing the sprinkler system, and removing asbestos,
would have been enormous.
   Besides, says Mr. Johnson, the "idea of a corporate palace
has disappeared. The time for one building exclusively for
one company is over." Corporate offices, he adds, "must be
considered as assets, not just as houses or work places."
   The new office complex has yet another virtue: In a city
where open space downtown is hard to come by, the developers
are acquiring an additional five acres to make parks and
plazas. The new buildings will only occupy one-third of the
total site.
   Preservationists, however, aren't swayed.
   "Preservation doesn't mean pretty," says William Delvac, a
local lawyer active with the Los Angeles Conservancy. Mr.
Delvac sees beauty in rarity as well as simply architectural
aesthetics. For Los Angeles, where the downtown is tiny in
comparison to its vast sprawl, each example of urban-scale
architecture is precious.
   Until now, preservationists' first line of defense has
been to educate the public; instructing people about their
city's architectural heritage has saved some great old
buildings. Yet some preservationists, including Mr. Delvac,
feel it is time to get more militant. Education is fine, but
it takes too much time, and for young buildings like Unocal
that do not enjoy a natural constituency, time has already
run out.
   Mr. Delvac considers the Unocal building a lost cause. But
for future baby monuments, he is considering using the
California Environmental Quality Act as a way to get serious
attention from local officials. Under the act,
preservationists can petition local authorities to consider
the old building as a historic resource. The authorities,
such as the Los Angeles City Council, would then have to
study the threatened building, considering its value and
alternatives to it. At the least, it bogs down deliberations.
Preservationists hope that such long delays would deter all
but the most determined and solvent developers.