International -- Foreign Insight:
   Italy's Fed-Up Voters Could Persuade
   Politicians to Respond to Nation's Needs
   ----
   By Robert Keatley
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Calling any Italian election truly important may seem
absurd. This nation is now enduring, though certainly not
enjoying, its 49th government since 1945, complete with
Giulio Andreotti serving as prime minister for the seventh
time. Each new vote has brought in yet another weak
coalition, all with the Christian Democrats at the center and
a seldom-changing cast of political characters genially
swapping cabinet roles. (Mr. Andreotti, a superb tactician
with no known political vision, is serving as a government
minister for the 28th time.)
   The country's political system has now become the issue.
Few of these governments have accomplished much of note, and
few ever try. Now the belief is growing across Italy that it
can't afford this sort of thing anymore. State finances are
about the worst of any major world economy, government
services are costly and deteriorating, and the public is fed
up. Though voting shifts in Italy are usually glacial, this
time polls show that an unprecedented 40% or more of all
voters claim to be undecided about whom to support.
   In addition, the high price of government -- including
costly goods and services sold by state-owned monopolies --
is eroding the Italian private sector's competitive advantage
at home and abroad. In earlier decades, Italian business
could ignore much government bumbling and get on with the
task of creating jobs and making money. Now that's much
harder to do, especially as new European Community rules let
in previously unknown competition. Rising costs at home
helped cause Italian exporters to lose global market share
last year.
   "The last three years have been years of deep
deterioration," says Sergio de Nardis, an economist at
Confindustria, the Italian industrial association.
   Such issues fill the Italian press and dominate public
debate. Yet the response of the political elite is vapid.
Though each major party has a reform wing, many top leaders
still jockey for personal and party advantage. No big party
has a serious plan for change, and none offers leadership
that excites anyone.
   As a result, all the parties stand to lose. The Christian
Democrats are becoming "Southernized," relying ever more
heavily on support bought by using taxes collected in the
rich north of Italy to subsidize the crime-ridden south. Its
Socialist partners are tainted by corruption talk. The former
Communists, Italy's second largest party now renamed the Left
Democratic Party, have no relevant political message and will
suffer accordingly.
   The winners will be fringe groups and, above all,
provincial "leagues" in the north that essentially are
protests against corruption and the costly subsidies for the
south. They seem certain to gain many parliamentary seats.
   All this promises greater fragmentation in the next
legislature, and Italy "could become ungovernable," says
Patrick McCarthy, a political scientist at the Bologna campus
of Johns Hopkins University.
   Yet that's where salvation may lie. Optimists such as
Giorgio La Malfa, head of the small Republican Party, say
such splintering will frighten the main parties into reform,
if only to save themselves. Major changes could include
measures to deny parliamentary seats to parties that fail to
get, say, 5% of the total vote (as in Germany), leading to
more stable coalitions. Others could give the weak executive
some power over the budget process, curbing fiscal
irresponsibility.
   Failure to act carries enormous risks. Without better
management, Italy could find itself with both a failing
economy and disastrous state finances, unable to run with the
main EC pack and unqualified to join its planned monetary
union. The April 5 election won't suddenly provide the
solution. But it could start a process leading, perhaps by
another election soon after, to a political system in which
today's angry Italians finally could take pride.d