WORK & FAMILY
   ----
   By Sue Shellenbarger
COMPANIES find new ways to move people up without moving
them around.
   With a growing number of workers refusing transfers for
family reasons, companies are re-examining the traditional
link between relocation and the fast track.
   A study sponsored by Xerox of 13 companies similar to it
in size found that six are testing new ways of developing
employees, such as moving jobs rather than transferring
people, says Career Development Services, a Rochester, N.Y.,
consultant that conducted the study.
   FMC and other companies broaden workers' experience
through task forces or special projects.  Mobil moves
managers more frequently within each of its three U.S. "hub"
locations, where a wide range of functions and operations are
clustered, and moves them less often among the hubs.
   General Motors offers some managers overseas "professional
development" stints of up to six months, rather than the two-
to three-year assignments of the past. Other companies send
people overseas earlier in their careers, giving them
international experience before they get too settled, says
Calvin Reynolds of Organization Resources Counselors, a New
York consultant.
   But transfers still play an important role in career
advancement. Two-thirds of the companies surveyed by Career
Development said more than half of their senior managers had
transferred three or more times. One reason: Globalization of
markets and operations demand greater seasoning of top
executives.
                                                                                                       

   Parents' Heavy Burden
   Of Child-Care Costs
                                                                                                       

   CHILD CARE exacts a heavy toll on working parents, two new
studies document.
   Child-care costs consume 23% of the family income of
low-income parents, about the same proportion as housing,
according to a joint report by the National Association for
the Education of Young Children and two federal agencies. The
average family pays about 10% on child care, the study found.
   The numbers don't fully reflect the burden on many
low-income workers. One fourth of 1,500 members of the
International Ladies Garment Workers Union surveyed recently
said child care consumed more than 35% of their gross pay.
Maria Estela Acero, a sewing-machine operator in New York
City, spends $105 of her $200-a-week income on care for her
two young sons. Through a translator, Ms. Acero says she
keeps working because she doesn't like being idle.
   Many two-paycheck couples with children try to avoid child
care and its costs by asking their employers for split
shifts, says Joyce Long of the American Federation of State,
County and Municipal Employees.
   Others take on debt to pay for high-quality care. Pat Ward
and her husband, parents of two, borrowed money from her
parents to pay $10,000 a year, their half-share of the salary
of an experienced caregiver for her first child and a
neighbor's child in New York City. "We had to make a decision
about our priorities," says Ms. Ward, a child-care specialist
for the National Council of Jewish Women. The couple chose to
take on debt rather than settle for less-expensive care. "If
you borrow money to finance an education, why not child
care?" asks Ms. Ward.
   Some parents work on thin margins to stay in the work
force. Jo Ann Witherelle, a food stylist who expects to spend
$1,100 a month for child care after her second child is born,
says parents "pay all this money {for child care} so that
when their kids are older, they will still have their
careers. It's like a huge insurance policy."
                                                                                                       

   Firms Put Their Weight
   Behind Early Education
                                                                                                       

   COMPANIES target younger children in aid-to-education
efforts.
   Giving to pre-college programs has risen to 11% of
corporate educational support from 6% in 1987, the Council
for Aid to Education says, partly reflecting a growing focus
on preschool and elementary-age children. A recent Conference
Board report cites alarm among business leaders that current
early-childhood programs won't produce enough skilled workers
or literate consumers.
   Chevron U.S.A., a Chevron unit, finances "accelerated
schools" for disadvantaged children in four cities, including
enriched after-school programs for kids of working parents.
Honeywell supports early-childhood health care and schooling
in Minneapolis and promotes "family-sensitive" corporate
policies.
   Eastman Kodak works with public schools in Rochester,
N.Y., to set up science-focused programs for three- and
four-year-olds. Travelers supports enriched kindergarten
programs in Hartford, Conn., and has pledged support for
early-childhood health care as well.
   Because remedial training for workers costs five times as
much as teaching new skills, companies want to reach as many
future workers as early as possible, the Conference Board
says.
                                                                                                       

   Odds and Ends
                                                                                                       

   NINE STATES have mandated coverage of infertility
treatment in health-benefit plans. Illinois recently joined
Hawaii, Maryland, Massachusetts and others in requiring most
employers to offer coverage of such treatments as in vitro
fertilization and artificial insemination. . . . A Wisconsin
accountants' group is luring big crowds to its monthly
training programs. One draw: free child care. The program
attracts many accountants who have been laid off, taken
part-time work or dropped out to raise children, says
Lawrence Kean of the Wisconsin Institute of Certified Public
Accountants.