Business World:
   Blushing Flowers Shall Rise, With Hybrid Ventures
   ----
   By Tim W. Ferguson
If the floral business was ever genteel in this country,
it is now a clipped affair. Product comes from nearly
everywhere, and in unpredictable flows. Shipments don't wait
for orders. The hotbed of sales activity is Miami, where the
price is a vice, according to the organized growers. Last
April, for instance, premium roses were going for less than a
dime apiece in the trade.
   "Rose prices have stayed so low, it's ridiculous," says
David Machtel of the Floral Trade Council, a grower group.
The queen of the shrubs now is the central concern in the
$600 million (wholesale) U.S. flower industry. Importers are
picking on the prized petals. Rose growers have "cut a fat
hog for a number of years," one nurseryman says, but "now
they're crying."
   Yet they've been expanding, unlike growers of other common
flowers. Domestic-rose output was 39% higher in 1990 than in
1971, while the harvest of standard carnations wilted by
nearly half. Over the same time period, however, the import
share of the rose market blossomed from nearly nothing to
almost half. (Foreign shares in some varieties of carnations
and chrysanthemums now exceed 80%.)
   With overall volume up, consumers have reaped a bouquet
bonanza, not only in terms of prices but also selection, as
growers here and abroad look to find specialty niches that
might yield higher margins. The savings are most available at
sidewalk flower stands and supermarkets. Established florists
tend to favor domestic supplies -- reputedly of higher
quality -- and charge the old rates.
   The marketplace may be cutthroat and chaotic, but the
Floral Trade Council and its attorneys, working through the
federal government's International Trade Commission (ITC),
still strive for orderly profits. Layers of duties are
assigned like jockey weights, as an equalizer. James Bovard,
who has chronicled the ITC's absurdities on these pages as
well as in his current book, "The Fair Trade Fraud,"
describes its flower deliberations as akin to a medium who
hears "inner voices." Only in that manner could Kenyan
imports constituting 0.05% of total U.S. consumption be found
to injure domestic suppliers.
   Kenya is on the list of "dumpers," along with Canada,
Mexico, Colombia and two others. This means their growers are
divined to be selling in the U.S. at below the price in their
home market (or some proxy). Another group of violators,
sometimes the same nations, is subject to "countervailing"
duties because a state subsidy has been found. The combined
penalties, ever in flux, can range from a few percent to a
doubling of the price.
   The roster of violators often intersects with U.S. foreign
policy, but never more so than in the case of Andean nations
-- especially Colombia, whose exports alone account for a
solid majority of U.S. sales of some popular flowers.
   Washington has been trying to steer farmers in these poor
countries away from lucrative drug crops and into
alternatives. President Bush won recent congressional
enactment of authority to suspend standard tariffs to
encourage this. That would mean 8% off roses and 4% off
carnations and mums. The domestic industry doesn't like the
scent of that.
   Its counterthrust is legislation by Rep. Leon Panetta, the
powerful Democrat who represents much of the California
growing area. He would slap on import quotas, require
country-of-origin labeling of every arrangement and direct
attention to informal complaints by American growers. This
last provision seeks to reduce the legal bills otherwise
required of the U.S. industry (mostly family farmers) in
formal combat with the likes of Arnold & Porter, the powerful
Washington law firm retained by the Colombians.
   For all the petty tariffs, for all the invoking of the
familiar bogies of the debate over free agricultural trade
(imports mean harmful chemicals, pests, "slave" and child
labor), this battle is not purely a matter of first-world
farmers holding down Third World counterparts. Governments
are involved, sometimes using a "soft" home currency to
subsidize farmers, who will earn "hard" U.S. dollars they
will then be forced to exchange. (The Colombians have been
clear of countervailing duties since 1987, and say their
flowers are now unsubsidized and a model of economic
development.)
   Despite the inroads from abroad, the U.S. fresh-cut
industry has continued to grow in terms of output value, and
nurseries are doing quite well branching into potted and
bedding plants. Thousands% have left the business, but not
everyone who stays is sold on protectionism.
   John Muller is a California grower with $500,000 in annual
sales and 15 employees. Twenty years ago, he married the
daughter of flower farmers at Half Moon Bay, nearly an hour's
drive south of San Francisco. Running Daylight Nursery still
means overnight treks for Mr. Muller to the wholesale market
in the city, where he hopes his variety crops will command a
decent price.
   Mr. Muller is ambivalent about his industry's ability to
go without aid. He worries about not having par technology
with the subsidized Dutch, the world's top exporters. But he
smells the pollen. Last weekend he was off to Chicago to
speak about the GATT and North American Free Trade talks to
the "Grow Show" exposition. "There's no such thing as fair
trade," he concedes. "Trade is trade. It's fair if you get
the better part of the deal."
   In the hunt for advantages, the U.S. needn't look far. The
emergence of Mexican enterprise is shaking Sun Belt
agriculture to its roots, and some floral interests dread
another Colombia, taking the West Coast market by storm as
the Andeans did the East Coast. But others such as Mr. Muller
see neighborly opportunities. He already markets some Mexican
product, and says in the future "joint ventures {with
Mexicans} are the only way to go."
   Mexican farming needs help with its backward equipment and
gaps in the work ethic. But that nation's edge over its
lowwage competitors is the stability of its government, Mr.
Muller argues. By contrast, to its south, guerrillas and
narcoterrorists pose a sustained threat to floral industries
as well as democracies.
   However, U.S. interests are going to have to beat the
Europeans, the South Americans and the Israelis to the
Mexican plow. He admits, "We sure don't like to get out of
our comfort zone as much as the foreigner does."
   Global thinking and acting -- in the marketplace, not the
corridors of the ITC -- are the seeds of growth in this, as
in so many other fields. Of course, managerial acumen will
matter, too. To Mr. Muller, that requires being "lean and
nice-not lean and mean, I don't like that term." We're still
talking flowers, after all.