Central Guaranty
   Unit to Sell Most
   Of Branches, Assets
   ----
   By Larry M. Greenberg
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Under the proposed transaction, National Bank of Canada
would acquire 48 of Central Guaranty's branches in Quebec and
the Atlantic provinces. Meanwhile, CT Financial Services Inc.
would acquire 49 branches, mainly in Ontario and British
Columbia. CT Financial owns Canada Trust Co., the country's
largest trust, which is similar to a savings and loan.
   Central Guaranty is 88%-owned by Central Capital Corp., a
Halifax, Nova Scotia, holding company. Mr. Moysey said
Central Capital wouldn't receive any of the proceeds from the
sale of Central Guaranty's branches.
   Under the plan, National Bank, Montreal, and CT Financial,
Toronto, each would acquire about 3.5 billion Canadian
dollars (US$2.9 billion) of assets and matching liabilities
associated with the branch networks. National Bank said it
will pay Central Guaranty about C$70 million, subject to
adjustments, while CT Financial's payment is expected to be
between C$50 million and C$100 million.
   The proposed transaction is Central Guaranty's second
attempt to shore up its capital. The Toronto concern
announced in December a plan to sell to National Bank almost
the same assets it would acquire under the current plan. The
plan unraveled, however, amid criticism that National Bank
wasn't taking on any of Central Guaranty's riskier commercial
loans.
   Mr. Moysey said that under the current plan, National Bank
would acquire about C$500 million in commercial loans, with
the balance mainly in residential mortgages. CT Financial
said all the assets it would acquire are in residential
mortgages and consumer lending.
   After the transaction, which is subject to the approval by
federal regulators and Central Guaranty's creditors, Central
Guaranty Trust Co., the operating unit, would have about C$5
billion in corporate assets, and its proportion of commercial
loans would double to about two-thirds of total loans, Mr.
Moysey said. The company has suffered severe losses recently,
mainly as a result of problem loans.
   On the Toronto Stock Exchange, Central Guaranty stock
yesterday closed unchanged at C$1.20 a share.
   ---
   G. Pierre Goad in Montreal contributed to this article.