Firm Foundations:
   A Big Texas Developer
   Does the Unexpected:
   Keeps on Developing
   ---
   Gerald D. Hines Rarely Builds
   On Speculation, Slashes
   Costs, Avoids Heavy Debt
   ---
   Trying Hard to Please Clients
   ----
   By Todd Mason
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
All this makes the bookish 66-year-old by far America's
busiest commercial developer, accounting for a full 10% of
the major office space completed nationwide in the first nine
months of 1991. Moreover, he has stayed profitable, despite
the worst real-estate downturn since the Depression, by
sticking to his formula of avoiding debt, slashing costs and
refusing to build on speculation. How profitable, he won't
say.
   "Real estate today takes money, patience and guts," says
Richard Kateley, a Chicago-based development analyst. "Not
many other developers have all three."
   Flush with success, Mr. Hines now is venturing abroad.
With long-term, influential European backers such as Deutsche
Bank and Shell Pension Fund Foundation (Netherlands), he is a
front-runner in the frenzy to rebuild Berlin.
   In the U.S., Hines Interests has developed 420 projects
over 35 years, amounting to 82.8 million square feet of
offices, warehouses, hotels and shopping malls. In contrast
to erstwhile competitors such as Donald Trump and Trammell
Crow -- now hard-pressed to find any equity at all in some of
their projects -- Hines Interests' overall debt-to-equity
ratio remains an impressive 0.25-to-1. This gives Mr. Hines
his own brand of leverage: the ability to make deals in
today's depressed market.
   Consider MCI Communications Corp.'s 31-story regional
headquarters in northwest Atlanta, completed last April at a
cost of $153 million. When the local commercial real-estate
market cratered in 1989, initial financing for the project,
called Ravinia 3, dried up. Instead of shelving the plans,
Mr. Hines called a longtime equity partner, the Royal Dutch
Shell pension fund. "If it wasn't Gerald Hines, I don't
believe Ravinia 3 would have been built," says Roger
Staubach, the former Dallas Cowboys quarterback, who
represented MCI in the transaction.
   But another hurdle remained. MCI planned to occupy just
40% of the space, and Atlanta's downturn made filling the
rest dicey. Luckily, Holiday Inn World Wide had just decided
to relocate its headquarters from Memphis, Tenn., to Atlanta.
It agreed to move into Ravinia 3 -- but only if Mr. Hines
could figure out a way to oust a Hyatt Regency hotel located,
disconcertingly, next door. Mr. Hines, unburdened by mortgage
payments, quoted a rent so low in Ravinia 3 that Holiday Inn
could afford to buy out Hyatt Hotel Corp.'s interest and
install a Holiday Inn Crowne Plaza.
   "Sometimes we have to jump through hoops," he says, almost
apologetically.
   The project lives up to his reputation for architectural
daring. MCI's lobby masquerades as a space ship, and a
glass-walled conference room becomes frosted and private at
the flick of a wall switch -- features designed to enhance
the telecommunications company's high-tech image.
   That such ambitious projects can be completed these days
is wonder enough, to say nothing of their being done by a
Texas developer, once deemed a nearly extinct species. But
Mr. Hines never truly fit the role of a high-rolling Texas
real-estate mogul.
   An engineer by training and a perfectionist by
temperament, he seems captivated more by the art of
development than the accumulation of buildings. While other
developers were building fast and cheap, he hired renowned
architects such as Philip Johnson and I.M. Pei, betting
correctly that corporate chieftains would pay higher rents to
put their mark on skylines.
   Mr. Hines learned his trade from the basement up. Fresh
from college, he moved to Houston in 1948 for a job in air
conditioning. A rival developer, Kenneth Schnitzer, recalls
first meeting him in the bowels of a building Mr. Schnitzer
had under construction in 1956. Mr. Hines was fixing a
ventilation problem.
   Mr. Hines formed his own development firm the next year,
but didn't start making his mark nationally until 1974, when
he introduced Houston oil baron J. Hugh Liedtke to Philip
Johnson. The combination of Mr. Liedtke's desire to draw
attention to Pennzoil Corp. and Mr. Johnson's hatred for
standard glass-box skyscrapers produced a design -- twin,
trapezoidal towers rising to opposing peaks -- that
revolutionized office development. "Gerry brought
institutional design and quality to the commercial office
development market," says Joseph O'Connor, president of
Copley Real Estate Advisors Inc. in Boston.
   Worries about luring corporate tenants to the premium-rent
Pennzoil Place during a recession prompted Mr. Hines to cut
his risk by signing up an equity partner, Deutsche Bank.
Helped by a slick multimedia presentation room he devised,
Mr. Hines leased the building, and Deutsche Bank has been
with him ever since.
   The close call changed Mr. Hines. His new goal --
contrarian in the inflationary 1970s -- was to avoid debt. "I
saw developers going broke," he says. "That gave me a lot of
religion."
   His all-cash approach forced discipline onto the
organization. Mr. Hines developed a Medici-like mastery of
art and commerce, of style backed by penny-counting. His
50th-floor office in Transco Tower has a majestic view of his
handiwork in the Houston skyline six miles distant. But his
private office is a windowless cubbyhole crammed with books,
models, mementos and the clutter of his current project.
   Mr. Hines carves costs from his buildings at every turn.
To avoid clashes with high-strung architects, who aren't
famous for slavish attention to budgets or to clients'
practical needs, Hines Interests typically hires them just to
provide drawings. A Hines department then designs the
mechanical, structural and wall-attachment systems and draws
up blueprints and budgets. Years ago, the Hines design
department devised a metal framing system for inch-thick
granite slabs so they could be hung like windows. The
economical method is now commonplace.
   Not surprisingly, Mr. Hines spent the 1980s hopelessly
out-of-step. As chairman of the Federal Reserve Bank of
Dallas in 1981, he unsuccessfully fought liberalized
real-estate lending rules for banks. And in the chorus of
complaints about the 1986 tax reform, which stripped away
real estate's preferential treatment, Mr. Hines chided fellow
developers for fretting over pennies while gambling millions
on overbuilt markets. Recalls son Jeffrey C. Hines, president
and co-owner of Hines Interests: "He was a pretty lonely
voice in those days."
   Happily, he took his own advice. Convinced the Houston
market was ripe for a fall, he began raising cash in 1985,
selling interests in downtown Houston high-rises for $120 and
$165 per square foot of floor space -- prices that seem
miraculous in today's depressed Houston market.
   Now, with most competitors limping or wiped out, Mr. Hines
is the king of his chosen niche, buildings tailored to a
major tenant's needs. This also happens to be the only
healthy market left in office development. "Among developers,
Gerry Hines has a virtual monopoly on the quality buildings
in the U.S. today," says Robert A.M. Stern, an architect and
the author of "Pride of Place."
   Underscoring his position, Oryx Energy Co. picked him out
of 44 developers clamoring to build its headquarters, the
first major office building started in Dallas since 1987.
Ignoring acres of cheap office space downtown, Oryx
commissioned a masterpiece off a busy freeway interchange
north of town -- right in the midst of Hines Interests' tony
Galleria Mall.
   Though Mr. Hines has been a style setter for some time, it
wasn't always to popular acclaim. His office tower at 53rd
Street and Third Avenue in New York was scorned by some
critics and nicknamed the "lipstick building" by
Manhattanites, who saw its elliptical stages as lip gloss
rising from the tube. But it was a commercial success. "When
you say you work in the lipstick building," says Mr. Johnson,
who designed the structure and now uses it for his
headquarters, "people know exactly where you are."
   Success has meant a few changes in the way Mr. Hines
operates. His was once a one-man show, even as his firm grew
to hundreds of employees (it now has 1,150). "He was
somewhere between the world's worst and the cosmos' worst
delegator," says Louis S. Sklar, an executive vice president.
That has changed, and in 1990, Mr. Hines reduced his
day-to-day role by reorganizing into a limited partnership
and turning over more control to his son Jeff, 36. Remarried
in 1981, the senior Mr. Hines is raising a second family.
   But he still drives himself relentlessly. In September, he
rode his bike through the San Juan Mountains in Colorado at a
blistering pace of five passes in five days. Reluctant to
waste a four-hour layover in Wyoming recently, he hired
guides for a bit of mountain climbing with Ben Love, retired
chairman of Texas Commerce Bancshares.
   But he still faces challenges in real estate. A painful
liquidation of suburban low-rise offices and warehouses in
Houston, some dating from his company's first days, has
saddled the Hines Industrial division with a string of losses
stretching back to the early 1980s. The buildings were
recently pulled off the market until buyers and lenders
reappear.
   Meanwhile, Mr. Hines scrambled to replace a key tenant in
Miami when Southeast Banking Corp. was absorbed by First
Union Corp. Hines Interests is still saddled with 150,000
square feet of space there.
   Such mishaps have been sobering for the entire
organization, especially for executives who get a percentage
of the profits -- or losses -- of the buildings they manage.
"You never know who's swimming naked until the tide goes
out," Mr. Sklar says.
   Even the build-to-suit market is difficult. Although Mr.
Hines towers over rival developers eager to enter that
market, his rents can't rise above depressed market levels.
While the Hines managers have greater flexibility because of
their balance sheet, Mr. Kateley, the Chicago analyst, says,
"The risk for them is `How long am I going to have to feed it
before the market turns around?'"
   Untroubled, Mr. Hines says he has positive, if not always
spectacular, cash flow. That says it all in an industry where
many other developers are renegotiating distressed loans with
their lenders. "We don't have to do anything," Mr. Hines
adds, swallowing a smile.