LEISURE  ARTS -- Bookshelf:
   A Black Baby Boomer Comes of Age
   ----
   By Janet Byrne
World-weary from the start, brainy, pampered, the narrator
is raised mostly in a 1950s Indianapolis suburb. But, like
the book itself -- and perhaps as his missing name is meant
to suggest -- he suffers from an invisibility that goes
beyond his being an anomalous black in suburban white
America. Nothing can, or does, seem to touch this narrator,
at least throughout the book's first half. Arrested in what
seems to be a permanent state of moral lassitude, he speaks
in a passive, elliptical, poetic shorthand that -- ignoring
Pound's oft-ignored dictum that poetry should be at least as
clear as prose -- occasionally sacrifices meaning for
cadence:
   "The future was put away for us." Mr. Pinckney writes, ".
. . the way meatloaf was wrapped up for the next nervous quiz
meal and answers to our stormy looks were stored up for that
tremendous tomorrow."
   In school, the narrator mingles impassively with the white
kids in Weejuns, wraparound denim skirts, crew-neck sweaters
and loafers. He's invulnerable to everyone but Eustace, who
periodically shows up to remind him that, though he goes to
school with crackers, he is still a Negro. At a meeting of
the junior-high journalism club, Eustace, "like an impeccable
waiter of the old school," serves shrimp to a cool
ninth-grader. "Never touch the stuff," the young man says.
"I'm kosher."
   Maybe you find that funny, maybe you don't. Mr. Pinckney's
punch lines are usually fairly cryptic, abbreviated and
stylized. When the stories are put into the narrator's
disingenuous words -- a kind of stream-of-childhood -- they
often become even harder to follow, though Eustace is never
far away with his private reality principle. In high school
in the '70s, for example, the narrator flirts with
Anglophilia and other bookish pastimes like so many phases
his character must pass through: "It is easy to live with the
idea of life." Eustace tells him, "and when you lose it, you
will think of the time when you had it, green and gold."
   The narrator goes to London, then on to Columbia
University, still getting money from Daddy (a somewhat
disembodied character, as are the narrator's mother and two
older sisters). He has several Lost Weekends and at least one
whole lost summer in New York before taking a succession of
vaguely literary jobs. Among these is one that Mr. Pinckney,
a journalist and book critic, actually had (and has elsewhere
written about) -- assistant to Djuna Barnes, the author of
the 1937 novel "Nightwood" and a famous recluse.
   The narrator -- and narrative -- come into their own when,
in some nice plot confluences, the narrator's relationship
with his grandfather develops in the Northeast. (Both have
left home and become solitary wanderers, but their paths
converge every once in a while.) When Eustace dies, the
narrator journeys briefly to his grandfather's old farm in
Georgia for some bucolic nostalgia, but finds a South of
malls.
   The narrator's passage from precocious upper-middle-class
child to cerebral world searcher begins to take hold in the
final chapters, in a rush of regretful, chastened
understanding. "I had taken a utilitarian view of
Grandfather. What else were old blacks for, except to be
repositories of racial lore? Beautiful, maligned, obsolete
Negroes, discussing themselves . . . and feeling like
philosophers. . . ."
   "High Cotton" ends in a burst of self-doubtful and mildly
self-contemptuous philosophizing by the narrator. He thinks,
soon "I may be someone's old darky . . . telling someone who
may insist on being called a Senufo-American how in my day so
many . . . were afraid of black teenagers in big sneakers
with the laces untied. . . ." Something of a baby boomer's
"Black Boy," Mr. Pinckney's novel and laconic hero seem to
have sprung reluctantly, and with some amused disgust, from
the absurd racial and economic contradictions of the past
four decades.
   ---
   Ms. Byrne is writing a biography of Frieda Lawrence.