Marketing  Media:
   Firm May Buy
   Part of Church's
   Cable Channel
   ----
   By John R. Wilke
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The church has spent at least $250 million building its
holdings, which include the Monitor Channel, a 24-hour news
and public affairs cable channel started less than a year
ago; World Monitor, an Emmy award-winning nightly newscast;
and a Boston television station.
   If the talks bear fruit, it would mark closely held
Providence Journal's first foray into national television
programming. The newspaper publisher currently owns 10
broadcast television stations in such markets as Seattle;
Portland, Ore.; Louisville, Ky.; and Charlotte, N.C. It is
also a large cable-system operator, with holdings in Miami,
the Los Angeles basin, New England and New York.
   John Hoagland, chief executive officer of the Christian
Science Church's media operations, declined to discuss the
talks. "It has always been in our plan for the {Monitor}
Channel to have outside investors," he said. The church has
been privately circulating a prospectus to other potential
investors, according to cable industry insiders.
   The Providence Journal has had a continuing interest in
broadcasting and plenty of cash to pursue it. Two years ago,
the company sold its cellular mobile telephone operations for
an estimated $710 million in cash, and last year it bought
six television stations and 13 cable systems with joint
venture partner Kelso  Co. At the time, market researcher
Paul Kagan Associates Inc. pegged the value of the
transaction at $548 million, plus $150 million in debt
assumption.
   Kagan Associates estimates that the Monitor Channel
reached five million subscribers as of Jan. 31, up sharply
from 3.5 million just three months ago but still far below
better-established cable channels such as the Arts 
Entertainment Network and The Discovery Channel.
   Providence Journal president and chief operating officer
Trygve Myhren said the discussion with the church is only one
of a number of potential moves the company is considering
making in cable programming. "We'd really be striking off in
a new direction" if any of these discussions were concluded
successfully, he said.
   The prospective backing from the Providence Journal, first
reported in this week's Inside Media, an industry
publication, could help church leaders fend off critics who
say they spend too much on the secular broadcasting effort at
the expense of other church works.
   The church confirmed yesterday that it borrowed $41.5
million this year from its pension fund to cover cash needs.
In a statement, the church said its commitment to
broadcasting is "unwavering" and that the Monitor Channel is
meeting its business plan. The church also publishes the
Christian Science Monitor, an international daily newspaper
founded in 1908.
   The Monitor Channel still has a long way to go before it
can attract enough advertising to become viable, people in
the industry say. In its guide for cable advertisers, Saatchi
 Saatchi calls the channel "a distinguished and promising
journalistic effort," but says that it nevertheless "needs to
expand and qualify its subscriber base before it can compete
seriously."