Commodities:
   Weather Extremes Hurt Soft Red Winter Wheat
   With U.S. Stockpiles Projected to Become Tight
   ----
   By Scott Kilman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
So far, the fitness of the wheat crop hasn't made a big
impression on grain traders, because its condition can change
greatly until harvest. The amount of damage to the new crop
won't become clearer until the crop resumes full growth in
the spring.
   At the Chicago Board of Trade, which handles soft red
winter wheat contracts, the contract for March delivery
slipped 3.75 cents a bushel to settle at $4.13 as traders
took profits on a sharp rally earlier this week.
   Some Midwest growers, however, are already speculating
that it will be difficult for them to generate a large crop
this summer.
   A survey by Missouri officials of field conditions during
the first week of January found that only 17% of the winter
wheat crop there is in good condition. According to the
survey, 67% of the crop is rated fair, 15% is rated poor and
1% is rated very poor.
   The soft red winter wheat crop -- which is used to make
flour and donut mixes, among other things -- also appears to
be in trouble in northern sections of Illinois and Indiana.
   A bitter cold snap in November killed some plants and
damaged others. Unusually warm weather in December and early
January then fanned the growth of an organism that feeds on
the damaged plant tissue. The wide swing in temperatures is
also causing the soil's surface to heave as it freezes and
thaws repeatedly. The roots of the young plants are damaged
in the process.
   Purdue University extension agronomist Ellsworth Christmas
said yesterday that many wheat fields in northwest Indiana
have been hit hard by Rhizoctonia crown rot.
   The condition of the crop is particularly important this
year, because wheat supplies are tight and farmers planted
fewer-than-expected acres to wheat in the fall.
   But the problem in the Midwest can still be offset in part
by good growing conditions elsewhere. Much of the nation's
wheat is the hard red winter wheat variety, grown in the
Southern Plains, where field conditions are generally good,
analysts said. Farmers in the Northern Plains states could
also ease any tight crop supplies by planting more acres for
spring wheat.
   Many Midwest farmers were wary about planting soft red
winter wheat last fall because they had been stung by
widespread plant disease in their previous crop. An unusually
wet spring had triggered an outbreak of fungus that hurt the
quality of the crop, and reduced the prices farmers were
paid.
   Wheat prices boomed earlier this week in the wake of an
Agriculture Department projection that U.S. wheat supplies by
May 31 will shrink to 390 million bushels, the tightest
supply since May 1973. That amount is what will be available
in the U.S. before farmers begin to harvest wheat in June,
thus replenishing supplies. The so-called ending stockpile is
expected to be less than half of its level in May 1991.
   In other grain markets, prices of most soybean futures
contracts rose slightly while corn prices slipped. Wheat
prices settled mixed.
   In other commodity markets yesterday:
                                                                                                       

   ENERGY: Futures prices of petroleum increased again on
more news of token production cuts in the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries. Nigeria, whose oil minister is
the president of OPEC, announced a reduction of 50,000
barrels a day to help prop up prices. Algeria confirmed it is
considering a cut. Venezuela and Libya already have reduced
output modestly. But some traders called the cuts "cosmetic."
They noted Saudi Arabia, the OPEC kingpin, isn't saying
anything about its huge output. Still, trading was heavy on
the New York Mercantile Exchange. Although crude oil for
February delivery failed to hold above the technically
important level of $19 a barrel, it was up six cents to
settle at $18.91 a barrel. Heating oil, helped in part by
colder weather, also gained, but gasoline prices rose more
sharply. Natural gas futures also drew support from the
extremely cold weather, with February gas gaining 5.6 cents
to $1.35 a thousand cubic feet.
                                                                                                       

   PRECIOUS METALS: Silver soared in a rush of buying based
on anticipation of an economic recovery and technical
factors. After trading as high as $4.41 an ounce, silver for
March delivery finished at $4.338, up 17.8 cents. At
yesterday's high, March silver had gained 60 cents, or about
16%, since Dec. 20, when it set a life-of-contract low of
$3.81. Platinum also rose strongly, with the active April
contract finishing up $6.10 an ounce at $343. Gold lagged;
the active February contract rose $2.30 an ounce to $357.
James Steel, analyst at Refco in New York, attributed the
rise to investors' perception that an economic recovery is
beginning. That view was bolstered by a Labor Department
report that gross weekly earnings of U.S. workers rose in
December, he said. And the modest rise in the December
Consumer Price Index was also encouraging, he added. Both
silver and platinum would benefit from an economic recovery,
because they are used heavily in industry, Mr. Steel said.
Gold, however, is sensitive to inflation, which is why it
hasn't kept up with the white metals, he added. Also driving
yesterday's rise was short-covering by traders who previously
bet the price will fall; they closed out their positions by
buying offsetting contracts. But there was also a lot of
"new," technically based buying, particularly from commodity
funds, said Don Tierney, precious metals analyst at Fortune
Commodities. Some funds had already been "long" and added to
their positions yesterday, a sign they're expecting higher
prices, he said. From a technical standpoint, silver's move
is encouraging, said David Lundgren, an analyst at Technical
Data in Boston. Various indicators suggest that yesterday's
rally was the beginning of a larger one, he said, adding that
if silver closes above $4.395 it could run up to its next
major area of resistance, $4.975. Any declines shouldn't be
large and would present buying opportunities, Mr. Lundgren
said. But Mr. Steel said silver and gold still have to stand
the test of producer selling, which has "snuffed out" rallies
in the past.