Marketing:
   Soft-Drink Giants Sit Up and Take Notice
   As Sales of Store Brands Show More Fizz
   ----
   By Michael J. McCarthy
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Today, the upstart W POP outsells both Coke and Pepsi in
Wegmans stores. By how much? "Let's just say our swing in
share is the kind of stuff that catches the eye of the
national brand companies," says Marty Gardner, Wegmans brand
manager. Sure enough, W POP so unnerved Coca-Cola that the
No. 1 soft-drink company formed a private-label task force in
Atlanta several months ago to figure out how best to compete
with a growing array of store-brand drinks.
   Private-label soft drinks -- the bargain-basement-brand
knockoffs the cola giants once shrugged off -- are on a tear.
In the year-long period ended in mid-September, sales of
store-brand drinks rose nearly 10%, twice as fast as overall
soda-pop sales in supermarkets, according to Nielsen
Marketing Research. Between 1989 and 1991, private-label soft
drinks had their biggest three-year jump in market share in
at least two decades, says Beverage Digest; that share grew
nearly a full point, to 8%. Looking at total market share,
Beverage Digest shows that Pepsi has fallen 0.2% over the
past three years, while Coke has gained 0.7%.
   The emergence of the store brands, industry executives and
consultants say, is likely to affect pricing and product
strategies at Coke and Pepsi more than ever before. And
though store beverages normally thrive in recessions, they
may now be building long-term staying power through economic
recovery and beyond because of big improvements in taste and
graphics, as well as increasingly powerful retailers and more
value-conscious shoppers.
   "They are a force whose time has come," says David
Goldman, an analyst with Oppenheimer  Co. Adds Tom Pirko,
president of consulting company Bevmark Inc., "If it ever
sets in among many people that these beverages are as good as
Coke and Pepsi, that will become a very big issue for the
cola giants."
   For their part, the cola giants insist publicly that the
future isn't nearly so ominous. They note that private-label
products are still a fairly small part of the $46 billion
soft-drink market, and they add that their tiny rivals are
simply getting a momentary boost from the recession. "We
don't see them as any huge threat," Donald R. Keough, Coke's
president, told a recent stock-analyst conference.
   "This is an image business," adds Michael Weinstein,
president of AW Brands Inc., the root-beer maker. "There's
probably a limit to the number of people who want to walk
around sipping a can of Wal-Mart cola."
   But that hasn't stopped Wal-Mart Stores Inc. and other
retailers -- who think consumers are searching for greater
value -- from introducing their own colas. Wal-Mart, the
nation's largest retailer, launched Sam's American Choice
colas nationally late last year. The red-and-white cans,
which resemble those of Coke, bear a message saying, "We
believe these products . . . offer better value than the
leading national brands." Great Atlantic  Pacific Tea Co.'s
big AP chain is close to introducing new store-brand
beverages. And Kmart Corp. has recently had talks with
private-label companies to explore developing its own drinks.
   Retailers believe there's gold in those cans. Even though
the average store brand sells at about a 35% discount to the
regular-priced national beverages, it can still be more
profitable. Store brands can generate gross profit margins of
as much as 30%, says David Litwak, senior editor of
Supermarket Business magazine, while a Coke or Pepsi might
fetch only about 21%. "That difference is what attracts many
stores," he says.
   A Pepsi spokesman acknowledges that retailers are
"developing their own private-label portfolios to boost
loyalty to their own stores." But he argues that products
like Pepsi and Coke are more profitable for stores when their
higher volume and turnover are taken into account.
   Still, it's stories like those out of Ontario, Canada,
that have electrified retailers. Since Loblaw Cos. grocery
chain introduced its President's Choice cola in Ontario in
June, the chain has boosted its cola market share in its 135
stores to more than 50% from around 10%. President's Choice
is "sweeping incredibly fast," says David Nichol, president
of Loblaw's product-development division. "When there is no
difference from a performance point of view, people aren't
willing to pay the premium for Coke and Pepsi."
   All this could strain the relationship between the cola
giants and retailers. Coke's private-label task force, for
instance, has wrestled with a difficult strategic issue: How
to compete with a store-brand cola, like W POP, without
upsetting a Wegmans, which doles out the shelf space and
end-of-aisle displays. Put another way, says Jesse Meyers,
publisher of Beverage Digest newsletter, "The consumer may
decide what goes off the shelf, but the supermarket first
decides what goes on it."
   With no clear rebuttal to the success of private-label
colas, Coke and Pepsi appear to be taking another tack:
pushing their lower-profile flavored drinks. One Coke
marketer says the company has contemplated plans to test
market its Fanta fruit-flavors line with lower prices to
attack private-label drinks. A Coke spokesman says the plans
for Fanta probably won't be pursued because Fanta is an
important name-brand product, particularly overseas. (The
spokesman also downplays the private-label study, saying
there are always internal groups evaluating competition.)
   As for Pepsi, it recently began selling Slice
fruit-flavored drinks at reduced prices in several cities,
although a spokesman says that was more to meet price
competition in flavored sodas than to fend off private
labels.
   Store brands' growth could hurt profit margins at the big
cola companies' bottlers, or distributors, whose profit
margins already have been squeezed by several years of price
slashing. The price wars of the 1980s helped restrain
private-label growth, even during the previous recession
early in the decade, beverage consultants say. Now both
companies would like to raise prices, they say, to boost
their struggling bottlers' financial health. But, warns one
former Coke manager, "Coke and Pepsi are taking some big
chances if they raise prices, and the {private label} brands
don't follow."
   For the cola giants, private labels have become a bigger
concern because sophisticated smaller manufacturers seem to
be closing the taste gap. In 1984, taste-test research by
Consumer Reports found that the odds of people liking a
name-brand soft drink better than a store-brand were 4 to 1.
But when the magazine revisited the issue last summer, it
found that the store brands tasted just about as good as the
Big Two and advised readers just to buy the cheapest cola
available. It used to be that private-label brands were
"really all dishwater, and not even great dishwater," says
Mr. Meyers of Beverage Digest.
   Cott Corp. of Toronto is currently the hottest supplier of
private-label drinks. Working on formulations with DWG
Corp.'s Royal Crown Cola Co., Cott supplies soft drinks to
Wal-Mart and Wegmans, among others. Cott even tailors
specific cola flavors to closely resemble, say, Coke's taste
in markets where people prefer Coke. The improved technical
quality of the drinks is erasing retailers' reluctance to
promote them. Says Wegmans' Mr. Gardner: "We felt for the
first time that we had the extracts and formulations that
surpassed Coke and Pepsi."
   Private-label companies are also betting that the cola
leaders' traditional strengths -- image and brand loyalty --
are weakening amid price cutting and consumers' focus on
value. "Promotion definitely erodes loyalty," says Mr. Litwak
of Supermarket Business. Adds Loblaw's Mr. Nichol: "People
don't fall for all that image stuff anymore -- that they'll
be `with it' depending on what they drink."