Mixed Results:
   Columbia, Md., at 25,
   Sees Integration Goal
   Sliding From Its Grasp
   ---
   Racial Balance Is Maintained,
   But Intermingling Fades
   As the Groups Stay Apart
   ---
   Guess Who Isn't at Dinner?
   ----
   By James S. Hirsch
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
"Times have changed," she says with an air of resignation.
"People are just more comfortable in their safety zone than
in exploring new things."
   That isn't what one would expect in Columbia. The town was
founded 25 years ago with the goal of creating a color-blind
community, and it has been widely praised for its racial
harmony. With blacks representing about 20% of residents,
blacks and whites still live on the same tree-lined streets,
attend the same well-funded schools and have avoided the sort
of racial strife that has split many other cities. Yet today
many seem to be withdrawing into separate worlds within this
22-square-mile planned community. Nightclubs have opened that
tend to draw one group or the other, and churches are less
integrated. Black high-school graduates are increasingly
enrolling in black colleges and universities.
   "Assimilation is no longer the universal goal," says
Gloria Washington, an educator in Howard County schools,
which includes Columbia. During the height of integration,
says Ms. Washington, who is black, some blacks "were negating
who they were, and that was even more of a detriment" than
living in segregation.
   Adds Richard G. McCauley, a white senior vice president at
the Rouse Co., which developed Columbia: "The early vision of
integration was that if you went to school together and grew
up together, you would have two black friends and two white
friends, and you would turn out similarly. But we found that
people tend to gravitate towards each other based on
socio-economic values."
   The trend isn't evident just between blacks and whites,
but between Jews and gentiles, too. Columbia's Beth Shalom
congregation, for instance, recently decided to leave an
interfaith worship center to build its own synagogue. "I
think it was a mistake to play down our differences," says
Rabbi Kenneth L. Cohen.
   In many ways, these trends reflect a growing national
movement acclaiming cultural and ethnic diversity. "Blacks
never bought totally into integration because it meant a
disintegration of differences, an absolute embracing of
sameness," says Harry Edwards, a sociology professor at the
University of California at Berkeley, who is black.
Integration, he argues, "has not been approached or achieved
because nobody wants it. Blacks have always wanted to
associate with themselves."
   Columbia residents have conflicting feelings about how
their community is changing. Some fear that "resegregation"
will build racial divisions and repudiate Columbia's early
emphasis on integration. Others say that goal has been
reached -- the neighborhoods and schools are racially mixed
-- and the town is evolving to accommodate a growing
population. There are 73,000 people here now.
   Cheryl Walker, who is white and married to a black, says
she wishes she could have raised her three teen-age daughters
here 20 years ago because the majority of Columbia's
residents then embraced the ideals of togetherness and social
change. Raising them in the more divisive 1990s has been
difficult, she says, and she is concerned about how well
they'll be accepted in the future.
   Other residents like Mr. McCauley, who moved here in 1969,
believe blacks and whites are increasingly going their own
way as part of an "unself-conscious selectivity." He says he
used to make sure his dinner parties had representative
numbers of whites and blacks. "If I had a dinner party today
that wasn't integrated, I would feel self-conscious about it,
but it would be O.K.," he says.
   Columbia was the brainchild of James W. Rouse, who also
developed New York's South Street Seaport, among other noted
projects. He and other investors bought 14,000 acres of
Maryland farmland and set out to create a town where ecology,
progressive education and integration would be pieces of the
same communal quilt.
   Skeptics said integration was impossible in this border
state. But they underestimated Mr. Rouse, now 77, who has
lived here since Columbia's founding. Early on, he jawboned
home builders and real-estate agents not to discriminate and
attracted a mixed population through savvy marketing. He
opened a sales office where would-be residents were greeted
by both black and white hostesses. Inside were photos and
slides of homes, with black and white neighbors talking over
picket fences. Brochures described Columbia as an "open
city." A big sign hung on a wall: "The Next America."
   It was for Maggie Brown, who grew up drinking from
segregated water fountains in a West Virginia coal town. When
she and her husband, a research chemist, moved to Columbia on
a hot July day in 1970, a white woman from across the street
brought her a pitcher of lemonade and drinking glasses. "I
thought it was just remarkable," she says, explaining she had
not known of a black person who'd ever been offered an actual
glass, instead of a paper cup, from a white person's home.
The Browns have lived here ever since.
   Integration worked not only because blacks came to
Columbia but because the town attracted people committed to
the lofty social goals of the 1960s and 1970s. And residents
of all races tended to be relatively well-educated and
well-off. (Last year's median home selling price was
$190,000.) The place emerged as an idyllic bedroom community
for Washington and Baltimore, where hippies gathered for
lakeside concerts, property values rose, and prospective home
buyers were told that Columbia's first baby was born to an
interracial couple.
   The town remains a magnet for mixed marriages, and
interracial friendships are common. But many newcomers, drawn
here by white-collar jobs as well as toprated schools and
serene neighborhoods, evidently don't have the same zeal
about integration as their predecessors, while many longtime
residents are losing enthusiasm for that mission.
   Following dwindling interest in recent years, last month
only one black responded to invitations to join in an annual
service by the Columbia Jewish Congregation honoring Martin
Luther King Jr.'s birthday. In prior years, black choirs and
black clergy participated. "The black community is now
interested in talking to itself and is not interested in a
close association with whites, and that's their privilege,"
contends Rabbi Martin Siegel.
   The Rev. Bowyer Freeman, associate minister at the black
First Baptist Church of Guilford, essentially agrees. Mr.
Freeman, who is also president of the Howard County National
Association for the Advancement of Colored People, says the
absence of blacks at the joint service reflects black
disillusionment and frustration with Columbia's unfulfilled
promise. He says black students score lower in the schools'
standard achievement tests, black-owned businesses in
Columbia are few and bigotry still exists. Racist literature
was recently tossed on several front lawns, though it isn't
known by whom.
   "In this context, you do some introspection," Mr. Freeman
says. "You come back to your own group and you strategize
together as a source of strength."
   The disillusionment is most acute among young blacks who
fear the cost of integration is the diminishing of their own
culture. They note that Columbia's ninescreen cinema didn't
get the film "Glory," about black soldiers in the Civil War,
and say the town rarely offers movies or plays by black
writers and directors. Columbia, however, is home to the
Maryland Museum of African Art. The movie theater didn't
return calls seeking comment.
   Tara Massey believes many Columbia blacks have lost touch
with their heritage. The high-school senior, who moved here
two years ago, carries a leather-fringed handbag from Senegal
and wears necklaces and bracelets made of cowry shells from
Africa. She says some other black students mocked her attire.
"It bothered me, because I wanted to say this is part of your
history," she says.
   While blacks and whites are still seen together in
shopping malls, restaurants and movie theaters, one
nightspot, The Silver Shadows, now is attended primarily by
blacks, while a second "black club" just closed for
renovation. The Silver Shadows is a lakeside jazz club opened
four years ago under a different name. "I love whites as much
as blacks, but blacks feel more comfortable" in their own
nightclub, says a black patron, Danielle Jones, 24. She says
finding dance partners at white clubs is more difficult
because of racial prejudice.
   Self-segregation is most evident among teens -- and isn't
limited to blacks. Two years ago the Columbia Association, a
civic group, began holding Teen Supreme dances aimed at
drawing an integrated crowd. The events drew a 60%-40% mix of
blacks and whites-until whites stopped going. Birgit
Willging, 16, who is white, thinks the dance's popularity
with blacks discouraged whites from attending. "People said
things like, `There were so many blacks on the dance floor,'"
she recalls. These whites weren't racist, she contends, but
just feel more comfortable among themselves.
   Ajom Ali, the dance's coordinator, says the absence of
whites was disappointing. The association responded in
December by sponsoring two events: a Teen Supreme dance to
appeal to blacks; a Top 40 dance that appealed to whites.
   Billy Holliday also voices this comfort -- with-one's-own
obstacle to integration. He grew up in Columbia but went to
high school in Baltimore, where he felt more at home in
middle-class black neighborhoods. There, he says, "you have
friends who will look after you. . . . Although Columbia is
integrated, you don't have the same feeling that you can go
to a white neighbor and ask for a cup of sugar."
   Mr. Holliday, now a senior at Morehouse College, a
historically black school in Atlanta, says he plans to stay
in that city because it has a strong black entrepreneurial
class.
   Some Jewish residents also express concern about losing
their culture to integration. The Beth Shalom congregation
recently decided to pull out of an interfaith common worship
center in Columbia after 21 years. At the center, used by
various religious groups, the congregation has to keep its
ark in a closet when services aren't being held. The
congregation is erecting its own synagogue.
   At the Columbia Jewish Congregation, services now include
more Hebrew and traditional prayers, at members' behest. The
temple also is sponsoring more Jewish youth programs and
recently formed a women's group focusing on Jewish
activities.
   These moves don't overly concern Mr. McCauley of Rouse
Co., who says Columbia's basic goals of integration and
tolerance have been institutionalized as norms. Mr. Rouse
himself calls the changes a "celebration of ethnicity."
   Says Columbia's founder: "We won't have a truly open
community until blacks have their own housing together if
they want it."