LEISURE & ARTS:
   Indonesian Sin: Muslims Addicted to the Lottery
   ----
   By Margot Cohen
As Islam gathers strength as a spiritual and political
force in Indonesia, the statesponsored lottery, dubbed SDSB,
represents a central paradox. Indonesian Muslims, the largest
Islamic population in any country in the world, may be
growing more devout, yet they remain hooked on an activity
that violates Islamic law. President Suharto's New Order
government may be enjoying a rapprochement with institutional
Islam, yet grass-roots anger seethes over the lottery's
destructive effects. "SDSB is a very clear example that the
`harmonious relationship' is at a superficial level," says M.
Din Syamsuddin, chairman of Muhammadiyah Youth, an
organization of Muslims under age 40.
   The crowning irony came when it was revealed in early
November that government officials handed over 50 million
rupiahs in SDSB funds to an East Java school affiliated with
Nahdlatual Ulama, Indonesia's largest Muslim organization,
following a recommendation letter signed by NU chairman
Abdurrahman Wahid, who just last July had publicly denounced
SDSB. And that wasn't all.
   In villages around the country, Muslim clergymen shook
their heads over reports that SDSB money had gone to a number
of Muslim institutions, including the Festival Istiqlal, a
month-long celebration of Islamic art and culture in Jakarta;
Bank Muamalat Indonesia, a much-heralded Islamic bank; and
Himpunan Mahasiswa Islam, a nationwide students'
organization. Like the pork fat once rumored to be lurking in
each bowl of Indonesian noodles, gambling money suddenly
seemed to be tainting every source of Muslim pride.
   Some observers believe the government announcements were
calculated to legitimize SDSB, as part of a long process of
"co-opting" Islam. If so, the strategy backfired, churning up
more controversy than ever. As some of the Muslim groups
hurried to give back the money, thousands of Islamic
university students throughout the islands of Java, Madura
and Sulawesi staged anti-SDSB protests. Some students have
paid the price for their leading role in challenging the
government on this issue: In late November, more than 150
Sulawesi students were injured when the military charged into
a demonstration bearing billy clubs, according to the
Jakarta-based Legal Aid Society.
   Beyond its implications for local Islam, the lottery
generates an enormous amount of money that remains shrouded
in secrecy. Known by various names since the late '60s, the
lottery is now called Sumbangan Dana Sosial Berhadiah, or
Philanthropic Donation With Prizes, underscoring its official
purpose of funding social welfare projects and sports
activities. This year, more than 130 billion rupiahs of SDSB
money, representing roughly 60% of ticket purchases, was used
for this purpose, according to the Ministry of Social
Affairs.
   As for the rest, nobody knows. The Indonesian Democratic
Party has called for a public accounting to Parliament, but
so far, no dice. SDSB is administered by a foundation
operated by PT Arthadana Kriya, a shadowy private company in
which local businessman Henry Pribadi and other wealthy
entrepreneurs with powerful patrons are said to have a stake.
In effect, the company is financed by Indonesia's poorest
citizens, who dream of obtaining the luxury items flaunted by
the well-connected elite.
   Despite the multiple layers of controversy, in its own
quirky way SDSB binds the archipelago together. Imbedded into
Indonesian culture, it's one of very few things that this
widely diverse population of 182 million has in common.
   In East Kalimantan, weary housewives make sure to whisk
all their clothes off the line by Tuesday evening, so robbers
won't swipe them in time to finance tickets for the Wednesday
drawing. In Mess Cendrawasih, a Jakarta slum overflowing with
families and students from Irian Jaya, men retreat from
all-night card games to make their own private calculations.
   In Bali, SDSB devotees make delicate offerings of flower
petals and banana leaves. In East Timor, an aging smalltown
innkeeper pauses during an outburst on Javanese colonialism
and army abuses to scribble ciphers (although the lottery is
officially banned there, as it is in the province of Aceh).
Mass-circulation newspapers offer predictions by way of
illustrated clues and acrostics while simultaneously
publishing cartoons that lampoon lottery addicts.
   It's easy to become addicted because it's easy to win.
Although the top prize of one billion rupiahs can only go to
the lucky few who shell out 5,000 rupiahs for a ticket
matching all six digits of the week's number, the government
allows bets on the last two, three or four digits for a more
modest investment of 1,000 or 1,500 rupiahs, depending on the
locality. A two-digit coupon for 1,500, for example, brings
55,000 rupiahs plus a 5,000 rupiah ticket for the next
drawing. That's not much, but with the highest local daily
minimum wage at 2,600 rupiahs, it amounts to a small fortune,
plenty large enough to keep millions fascinated or repulsed,
depending on who you talk to.
   In a country where ordinary people hesitate to volunteer
an opinion on most subjects, everyone seems to have something
to say about SDSB. Hawking sunglasses on a ferry to Bali, one
22-year-old Muslim man says, "I never play the lottery;
that's a sin," adding, "what number are you going to bet?"
Lounging in an SDSB kiosk in Kalibaru, a 29-year-old
unemployed man scoffs at the idea of abolishing the lottery.
"It's a human right," he insists.
   SDSB is blamed for laziness, murder, suicide and insanity.
According to the Yogyakarta-based daily Kedaulatan Rakyat, in
late October a 63-year-old man killed himself because he used
a neighbor's 1,500 rupiahs to bet on his own number, not the
number the neighbor asked for. When the neighbor's number was
announced, he couldn't bear to face him.
   On the other hand, those who merely dream of killing
themselves could hit the jackpot. Hanging oneself corresponds
to No. 351 or 395, explain the well-thumbed dream manuals
available in the kiosks. In Indonesia, dreams are universally
acknowledged as the best method for winning the lottery.
   Other favored methods include communing with the dead
during an all-night cemetery vigil, or paying a local mystic
for advice. The lure of mysticism is yet another reason for
Muslim leaders to bite their nails over SDSB.
   Fortune smiled on the mystics last year, when in a rare
moment of spiritual solidarity they all predicted 2350.
Rumors flew, and when 2350 came up, the archipelago cheered.
The government was forced to dole out 150 billion rupiahs at
one shot, but promptly announced nine additional drawings to
make up the loss. This, of course, further angered Muslim
leaders.
   After offering soothing promises that SDSB would be junked
as soon as another fund-raising alternative could be found,
officials are now insisting that the lottery must continue.
Muslims are equally insistent that it should stop. Should the
ruckus escalate, it could spell trouble for the government
party, Golkar, in parliamentary elections scheduled for June.
   Meanwhile, some people have already decided to quit SDSB
cold turkey. In Kajarharjo village, 92-year-old mystic Abdul
Moe'in doesn't give out numbers anymore. He explains that his
second wife died recently, and when she came back to life
after 70 hours she brought a message from beyond -- from his
253-year-old grandmother, to be exact. God wished him to
concentrate on prayer and forget SDSB, Mr. Moe'in says.
Nevertheless, he is firm in his view that the lottery does
not count as gambling. "People don't want to win," he
reasons. "They are just hoping for some good fortune from
God, by means of SDSB."
   ---
   Ms. Cohen is a Jakarta-based journalist.