European Firms Push Private Banking,
   And Customers Face an Array of Choices
   ----
   By Sarah Burnett
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
As international private banking becomes more widespread,
its definition becomes less precise. Basically, private
banking offers tailor-made financial management for the very
wealthy. In addition to standard banking services like
deposit-taking and checking accounts, such banks provide
portfolio management, tax planning and specialized services
such as company and trust formation.
   Some private bankers go to great lengths to provide
individualized services, not all of them financial. One
private bank in the U.K. was asked by a client to procure a
range of gas masks during the Persian Gulf War but
unfortunately didn't obtain any that satisfied the customer.
   Other requests are more routine. Royan Ellis, manager of
Westpac in Jersey, occasionally dispatches his secretary to
shop in the island's duty-free shops for perfume for clients.
Mr. Ellis himself takes them on tours of the island in his
Jaguar.
   "You jump for private clients," says David Fletcher,
managing director of Leopold Joseph, a small, private London
merchant bank. "You know you're in a service industry and if
they're very wealthy then you jump very high. If they ring up
and say come to the West End in a half an hour, one of the
directors will be there."
   "The service has no boundaries if you have enough money,"
says Jorg Heinemann, associate director of Unibank in
Luxembourg. "There are no limits for the very good customers
-- we'll walk their dog if they want."
   Who qualifies for this kind of service? Traditionally U.K.
private banks have demanded liquid assets -- excluding one's
home -- of more than #1 million ($1.7 million). But as the
marketplace becomes more crowded, the minimum requirements
have dropped sharply. For example, branches of the Canadian
bank CIBC will offer private banking for as little as
#100,000 although its business development manager in
Guernsey, Peter Dawson-Ball, admits that the bank would
prefer accounts of at least #1 million.
   But don't expect dog-walking services or limousines to
meet you at the airport if your account is worth #100,000 or
$200,000 or 300,000 marks. Most banks acknowledge that
private banking isn't cost-effective for the consumer with
less than about $200,000, since those customers can get most
basic services they need at lower fees from regular banks and
fund managers.
   What makes private banking attractive to many wealthy
customers is convenience. Instead of traipsing from bank
manager to fund manager to lawyer and back again, all you
have to do is go and see your private banker who does all of
the work for you. Furthermore, if you have several parties
running your financial affairs there is always the danger
that conflicts will crop up where they overlap, or worse,
that certain aspects of financial planning will be
overlooked.
   The key to finding an appropriate private bank is knowing
what you want beforehand and then shopping around
assiduously. If your priority is capital growth then talk to
investment-management companies as well. If expense is no
object and you want excellent banking services and prestige,
then the Swiss may well answer your needs. If you're mainly
concerned with tax planning, consult an accountant who might
help you or may recommend a bank that is good in this area.
   After you've narrowed the number of banks you want to
consider, how do you make the final choice? First, look for
someone you like and trust. Private banking is relationship
banking: The more the banker knows about your life and
financial needs, the better, in theory, he can manage your
money. "We don't just want customers who are shopping around
or like the building and the office. We want a long-term
relationship and we want to know where the money is coming
from," says Armand Dubois of Credit Commercial de France
(Luxembourg).
   Of course, it's essential to look at the organization's
quality of management and banking. At the very least, find
out the assets and capitalization of the bank. Make sure it
has a good credit rating, a long track record and a good
reputation. Rumors about problems at BCCI were around for
years and later proved right.
   One of the most difficult aspects of choosing a private
bank is evaluating investment-management performance. Because
of the customized and confidential nature of private banking,
relative performance is very hard to compare.
   A London-based consulting firm, the Allenbridge Group,
claims to be trying to address that problem. The company has
been introducing clients to private banks for several years
and monitors the performance of their portfolios. The client
pays no fee for the service, but the group receives a fee
from the bank that the client eventually chooses.
   Allenbridge's chairman, Anthony Yadgaroff, is skeptical
about the quality of management some offer. "If banks are
offering a total service, they may be offering mediocre
performance all round," he says. "Swiss banks are very good
at banking but they might not be good at being fund
managers." He advises clients to change banks if they are not
happy with the bank's performance after six months.
   Another consideration is the bank's location. This affects
taxation and trust laws, as well as secrecy. For example,
Swiss and Luxembourg laws prohibit details about a client's
assets from being given to a third party, except in the
course of a criminal investigation. This means, in effect,
that information isn't given out to tax authorities or anyone
else.
   So-called offshore banking centers such as the Channel
Islands, Bermuda, Luxembourg and the Isle of Man, where
nonresidents aren't liable for taxes on interest or capital
gains, also offer advantages to some clients. Most banks will
have subsidiaries in these countries. But banking in these
offshore locations doesn't give you license to avoid paying
tax in the country where you live, and you should get expert
tax advice about your tax liabilities.
   If you think you may want to set up a trust, the bank
should have expertise in this area. The trust is an
Anglo-Saxon concept and may be less familiar to some private
bankers in such places as France.
   Ask how many customers each account manager is responsible
for. Some may handle dozens of accounts, others hundreds.
Some may even handle thousands. It may well depend on how
much money you have: At NMB bank in Luxembourg, one account
manager looks after just 23 accounts while another looks
after 350 smaller ones. Anthony Yadgaroff says that for truly
personalized service and proper management, a manager should
not look after more than 100 clients.
   Private banking doesn't come cheap and the Swiss in
particular have been criticized for high charges. You will
pay for everything you get -- including the limousines. All
bank brochures carry statements -- often in small type --
detailing how expenses are charged. Study and compare them.