Your Money Matters:
   Changing Jobs Means Having to Find
   A New Home for Cash in Retirement Plan
   ----
   By Ellen E. Schultz
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Understanding the options is essential. Not only is big
money involved, but a misstep could erase valuable tax
benefits or limit an employee's flexibility. But while this
is one of the most important financial decisions people make,
it isn't something many employees know how to handle.
   Early last year, for example, 86% of departing
Hewlett-Packard Co. employees chose to simply take the money
and run. But "cashing out" a lump-sum distribution is usually
a mistake, because taxes and penalties can easily gobble up
half of the proceeds. After H-P sent a mailing to employees
that spelled out the consequences, most of those who
subsequently left the company chose to roll their money into
individual retirement plans.
   Unfortunately, employees often can't count on their
benefits office for help. As a result many people end up
taking advice from brokers, insurance agents and other
financial salespeople who are eager to earn commissions.
   "These people leaving are vulnerable, and a good sales
person can take advantage of their ignorance," says Philip
Shalett, corporate benefits manager for paint maker Benjamin
Moore  Co.
   While brokers and agents may have some good suggestions,
some try to get departing employees to put all the money into
a single investment or high-cost investments without
explaining the alternatives. These include leaving the money
with the ex-employer indefinitely, rolling it into an IRA or
taking periodic payouts.
   Phillip Stambaugh, a retirement specialist with Scudder,
Stevens  Clark, a Boston investment company, remembers a man
leaving one major corporation who was encouraged by a broker
to put all his money into mutual funds with 8% sales fees.
"He didn't know he could use `no-loads' and other
investments" that are sold without high commissions, he says.
   Tax advisers and benefits officers say that picking out
investments for your retirement plan before you've considered
where you are going to put it is like buying furniture before
you find a home. Departing employees instead should focus on
where they're going to house the plan.
   "The last thing you should consider is what the investment
should be," says Don Underwood, vice president of the
retirement plans and services department at Merrill Lynch 
Co.
   Employees might first consider leaving the money with
their former employer if the plan allows it and they like the
investment options. Employees who leave media giant Time
Warner Inc., for example, have the option of keeping their
money in the company 401(k) plan managed by Fidelity
Investments. Money can remain in the plan indefinitely, and
can later be moved to a new employer's plan.
   For people who don't like their old employer's plan -- or
don't want any reminder of their ex-employers' existence --
can roll retirement money into an IRA at a bank, brokerage
firm or mutual-fund company.
   This has to be done within 60 days of receipt of the
distribution. Otherwise, the money will be taxed as current
income, and if the person getting the money is under age 59
1/2, there's also a 10% penalty.
   Typically employers take several weeks to send a check for
the value of the individual's retirement account, though some
are quicker. Many of the investment firms that run 401(k)
plans for employers are eager to keep an employee's assets
under management. Consequently, they increasingly are
arranging one-day transfers from retirement accounts they
manage into rollover-IRAs they manage. Two that do:
mutual-fund companies T. Rowe Price and Fidelity Investments.
   Whether employees choose an IRA at a bank, brokerage or
mutual-fund company depends on their needs. For example,
people who want to invest in mutual funds, but also want to
unload shares of their former employer's lackluster stock
without paying high commissions, might want to set up an IRA
with a mutual-fund company that also has a discount brokerage
service, as does Vanguard Group, of Valley Forge, Pa.
   Whichever route you choose, never dump the money into an
existing IRA. If you do, you'll forfeit the ability to move
the money that came from your former employer's plan to a
retirement plan sponsored by some future employer.
   And there are some good reasons to put the money in your
new employer's plan. Unlike money in an IRA, for instance,
savings in an employer's qualified retirement plan can
usually be borrowed without tax consequences and at low
rates.
   Further, the money can qualify for favorable
"forward-averaging" tax treatment when distributed.
Forward-averaging enables older employees to take all their
money at once, but pay taxes at a lower rate. People over age
59 1/2 can apply "five-year averaging," which enables them to
pay taxes as if they had received one-fifth of the
distribution each year for five years and had no other income
in those years. Those born before 1936 can employ 10-year
forward-averaging, and might qualify for other tax breaks.
   Another option available to employees of any age is to
begin receiving periodic payments from their employer's plan
or from their IRA. Distributions will be taxed as income, but
won't face a 10% penalty if the distributions continue until
age 59 1/2, or for five years, whichever is longer.
   Finally, if you just have to have the money, even if it
means paying a penalty, consider taking only part of it.
"People who really need some of the money right away can cash
out a portion of their plan and roll the rest into an IRA,"
says Wallace Head, a partner at accounting firm Arthur
Andersen  Co. in Chicago.
   Andersen and some other accounting firms, as well as such
brokerage firms as Merrill Lynch, have computer programs that
can show what the tax consequences of different scenarios
will be.
   ---
     Taking Your Lumps -- and Making the Most of Them
                                                                                                       

   Four options for people getting lump-sum distributions
from profit-sharing, 401(k) or 403(b) reitrement plans.
                                                                                                       

                     Tax             Other
 Option              Consequences    Considerations
                                                                                                       

 Leave money in      None            Money is managed and
 former employer's                   can later be rolled
 plan, if allowed                    into an IRA, or moved
                                     to new employer's plan.
                                                                                                       

 Roll money into an  None, if done   Must choose
 individual          within 60 days  investments; may have
 retirement account  and money       to pay commissions.
                     isn't           Advantages: Money can
                     co-mingled      be put into future
                     with an         employer's plan and
                     existing IRA.   later borrowed;
                                     preserves ability to
                                     qualify for
                                     forward-averaging tax
                                     treatment.
                                                                                                       

 Begin periodic      Pay tax on      Distributions must
 withdrawals         distributions,  continue until age
                     but no 10%      59 1/2, or for five
                     penalty.        years, whichever is
                                     longer.
                                                                                                       


 a lump sum          current income, roll the rest into an
                     plus 10%        IRA.
                     penalty
                     if under age
                     59 1/2.