Salomon to Put
   Grand Union
   On the Block
   ----
   By Jeffrey A. Trachtenberg
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Although the recession has crimped many northeast
supermarket chains, Grand Union has increased its operating
cash flow 36% from $145 million at the time of the buy-out to
nearly $200 million for the year ending March 1992.
   Although Salomon Brothers has had the right to sell Grand
Union since last October, a major investor in the supermarket
chain said he was "disappointed" with the decision and
intends to bid aggressively for the grocery company.
   "We're definitely interested buyers," said Gary Hirsch,
managing general partner in Miller Tabak Hirsch  Co., best
known on Wall Street as a trader of stock index futures and
other securities.
   For the year ended March 1991, Grand Union reported a loss
of $53.8 million compared with $14.9 million the prior year.
Sales rose 7.3% to $2.92 billion from $2.72 billion.
Operating cash rose 8.8% to $185 million from $170 million.
The supermarket chain does business as Grand Union primarily
in the Northeast and as Big Star in the Atlanta region.
   Mr. Hirsch noted that Salomon's decision to sell was
consistent with Salomon's current strategy of reducing its
exposure to leveraged buy-outs and other illiquid
investments. He emphasized that his relationship with Salomon
remains cordial. Salomon officials declined to comment.
   Mr. Hirsch is also chairman of GND Holdings Corp., the
holding company which owns Grand Union. In addition to Mr.
Hirsch, the GND Holdings board consists of four Salomon
Brothers executives and Joseph J. McCaig, president and chief
executive officer of Grand Union. Although Mr. Hirsch opposed
the proposed sale, he was outvoted.
   Salomon has about $155 million invested in Grand Union,
including bank debt, notes, and equity. At the time of the
buyout, Salomon and its partners paid 8.4 times cash flow for
Grand Union; it is believed that Salomon hopes to sell the
company for 7.5 times cash flow, or about $1.45 billion to
$1.5 billion.
   According to those familiar with Grand Union, potential
bidders may include Kohlberg Kravis Roberts  Co., a New York
investment company, and Freeman Spogli  Co., a merchant
banking company based in Los Angeles.
   "We certainly have an interest in the industry, we know
Grand Union well, and we would expect to look at it," said
Brad Freeman, a partner in Freeman Spogli. A representative
for KKR declined comment.