Technology  Medicine:
   Bush to Propose
   Rules to Spur
   Biotechnology
   ----
   By Bob Davis and Rose Gutfeld
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
The $4 billion industry today consists nearly entirely of
pharmaceuticals. But the administration anticipates that the
industry will grow to $50 billion in the next 10 years, with
much of the growth in non-drug areas such as agriculture,
manufacturing and environmental restoration. Products in
these areas have been slow in coming, partly because of
regulatory hurdles that the administration wants to
dismantle. So far, about 300 products have been
experimentally field-tested, in anticipation of commercial
development.
   At the heart of the proposed framework is the principle
that products made by genetic engineering are generally no
different than products made by conventional means and don't
require special treatment. A draft report by an interagency
working group on biotechnology applies that principle to
products that would be released into the environment. The
report says such products should be regulated only if they
pose an "unreasonable risk" -- when the benefit of protecting
public health clearly outweighs the cost of regulation.
   The new structure is expected to be adopted by the working
group, headed by White House Counselor Boyden Gray, as early
as today. The group had been split for five years over the
policy, with the Environmental Protection Agency, which has
argued for stricter controls, pitted against White House
officials. But the effort to resolve the controversy got a
big boost from President Bush's drive to deregulate.
   Richard Godown, president of the Industrial Biotechnology
Association, said that the adoption of the regulatory
framework would especially help speed the commercialization
of food and agricultural products. "It's telling federal
agencies: Where there is no perceptible risk, don't apply the
heavy hand of government."
   But environmentalists immediately attacked the proposal
and said that easing regulation would endanger the public.
Margaret Mellon, a biotech specialist at the National
Wildlife Federation, said the White House could use the
framework to force agencies to scrap rules requiring
companies to field-test new biotech products and requiring
researchers to guard against releasing new organisms into the
atmosphere during laboratory work.
   The first set of regulations under the new approach will
be those designed to govern the experimental release of
genetically engineered pesticides. The rules, would exempt
many companies from having to seek EPA approval before
conducting small-scale field tests to see if the products
damage the environment.
   But the White House's plans for biotechnology range far
beyond pesticides. The Agriculture Department, for instance,
last year proposed rules to oversee the $180 million in
grants it doles out annually. Under the rules, researchers
would have been expected to determine how best to isolate
their experiments by analyzing the danger posed by the
organisms and the ability of the organisms to spread. But
White House and Agriculture Department officials now say they
will have to rewrite those proposals, so that researchers
would consider the cost of confining an experiment.