Enterprise:
   Optical Data Corp. Marries Technology and Education
   ---
   Video Textbooks: Playing Now
   In Texas Classrooms, Contents May Vary
   ----
   By Udayan Gupta
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
But along the way, Optical Data also discovered that even
high-tech companies need more than an innovative technology
to succeed. They must prove that they're offering a real
alternative to existing products. And they have to be
prepared to market new products aggressively, train potential
users -- and even start again from scratch if the need
arises.
   Indeed, Optical Data won the Texas contract only after
developing software to allow teachers to design their own
curriculum. The company also spent millions of dollars to
promote the technology and subsidize the cost of videodisk
players in the classroom.
   The Texas sale, 10-year-old Optical Data's biggest to
date, helped the company's 1991 revenue almost triple to $27
million, from $9.2 million the year before; the closely held
company said it was profitable, but declined to reveal
figures. This year, as the company prepares to bid to sell
textbooks to California's school system, revenue is expected
to climb to $35 million, founder William Clark says.
   Optical Data produces an electronic curriculum. At the
heart of it is a videodisk that blends moving pictures, still
images, and other visuals with sound to be played on a
videodisk player. The videodisk is accompanied by printed
teaching guides, such as readers, activity books and other
illustrated material. If curriculum planners -- or censors --
want to edit any of the material, they can use well-known
desktop-publishing techniques to do so, the company says.
   "Videodisks bring textbooks alive," says Arthur Pober, a
New York consultant with a doctorate in education. Unlike
computers that essentially are solitary learning tools,
videodisks allow groups to participate, he says, adding, "In
small classroom situations, they can be dynamic teaching
tools."
   Still, it took over two years for Optical Data to make a
breakthrough in Texas and sell its "Windows on Science"
textbook. It first had to come to grips with the state's
time-consuming, politically charged textbook-buying process,
one that involves designing a textbook to state guidelines
and pitching the idea to individual school boards.
   The publisher faced other obstacles as well. It had to
overcome the discomfort many teachers felt about high-tech
gadgetry. And it had to find a way to accommodate the needs
of Texas' bilingual population. Finally, it had to find a way
to help the schools purchase the videodisk players: The state
had money to purchase the videodisks but no funds to buy the
players.
   The company tackled the hardware issue immediately. It
negotiated early with two major makers of videodisk players
about a low-cost machine. And it lobbied companies that do
business in the state to contribute toward schools' hardware
purchases. Corporate contributors, including Trammel Crow
Real Estate Investors, Minnesota Mining  Manufacturing Co.
and a number of small auto dealers, together donated about
$250,000, Optical Data says. And the company pitched in $2
million of its own.
   To persuade educators that the electronic textbook was an
improved alternative to existing ones, Optical Data sales
personnel swarmed over the state, promoting the new textbook
in conferences and seminars. And it recruited nine "trainers"
to get local teachers used to the new technology and develop
additional uses.
   In the process, Optical Data also had to modify its
product. "We had to stress the virtues of the curriculum, not
just the technology," says Mr. Clark, still chief executive
officer. It designed a computer software program to allow
teachers to edit videodisks, enabling some teachers to edit
out such thorny material as Darwin's evolution theory. And it
added a Spanish soundtrack to accommodate the needs of Texas'
large Hispanic population.
   The efforts paid off. Optical Data says it managed to
wrest nearly 35% of the $40 million Texas science-textbook
budget last year for its electronic textbook. The company has
"redefined the idea of textbook publishing and what goes into
being a textbook company," says Geoffrey Fletcher, associate
commissioner of the Texas Education Agency, the state's
education department, which confirms the budget figures.
While conventional publishers sell textbooks and come back
every six years, when it is time to sell a new one, Optical
Data is maintaining a permanent presence in Texas and has
committed to providing annual updates, Mr. Fletcher says.
"That's more than most publishers have been prepared to do,"
he adds.
   Mr. Clark initially ran a mail-order business selling
space-related educational film strips and slide sets. But
after reading an article about the storage capabilities of
videodisks -- each side stores 54,000 pictures -- he decided
to try the new technology. "We had a huge archive of visuals
we could exploit," he says. With the aid of a $9,999 grant
from the National Aeronautics and Space Administration, he
produced his first educational videodisk.
   But attempts to expand the project into a large-scale
publishing venture proved difficult at first. "We couldn't
find any capital. We were real amateurs at fund raising," Mr.
Clark says. Eventually, a friend, New York printing broker
Leon Anders wrote out a $50,000 check to get Optical Data
started. Mr. Anders, after investing $500,000 more, now is a
big shareholder.
   For the next five years, the company sold videodisks to
various schools through telemarketing and direct mail. But by
1988, with annual sales at about $4.5 million, "we recognized
that there were built-in limits as to how big our business
could be," Mr. Clark says. Also bothersome to the company and
its investors was that the product was being sold school by
school, "a very expensive process," says John Martinson,
managing partner of Edison Ventures, a Lawrenceville, N.J.,
venture capital firm that has invested $1.5 million in
Optical Data.
   "We needed to find a way to make the selling process more
efficient," says Mr. Martinson. Clearly, selling textbooks to
school systems was a solution. So in 1989 when Texas
broadened the state's legal definition of a textbook and
invited alternatives, Optical Data decided to bid. Now the
company is planning similar bids for California and Florida.