Undoing Communism in Albania
   ----
   By John H. Fund
Since then, Albania's economy has almost collapsed.
Thousands have tried to flee to Italy or Greece, prompting
the West to fly in food aid to stem any further exodus,
although much of the aid ends up for sale in Tirana's Public
Market. Ten of the 12 factories making rugs, one of the
country's highest-quality products, are closed for lack of
raw materials. "Some people don't know how to respond now
that central planning has collapsed," says Foreign Minister
Ilir Bocka.
   The Socialist Party government has promised to privatize
the economy and allow unhampered foreign investment. However,
Western bankers clustered in the cavernous lobby of the
capital's tallest building, the 12-story Hotel Tirana, are
convinced the present government isn't up to the job. "The
people at the top here are still the ones skilled at
strangling dissent, not at nurturing capital," says one.
   The dire economy forced the government into early
elections, and this time there is a more level playing field.
Access to state-controlled television and radio is still
limited, but the police no longer harass opposition
candidates. Now they often stand idly by when fights in store
lines break out or hoodlums ransack food warehouses.
Journalist Amilda Dymi says many people are convinced the
regime doesn't mind a certain amount of civil unrest, since
it may prompt voters to back the ruling party out of fear.
   Sali Berisha, a bear-like physician with an Elvis-style
haircut, is the leader of the largest opposition party, the
Democrats. An admirer of Margaret Thatcher and Ronald Reagan,
he is the closest thing Albania has to a charismatic,
Western-style politician. He says the country was isolated
for so long that it has imported some of its political
character wholesale from the West. "It's no accident the
largest opposition parties are called the Democrats and the
Republicans," he says. "Many Albanians became rich in the
U.S.A., and the admiration for all things American here is
immense."
   Indeed, Secretary of State James Baker was overcome by
emotion last year when 100,000 Albanians filled Tirana's
Skanderbeg Square to cheer him. An ordinary American visiting
a village will attract a crowd in a few minutes, not to beg
for alms but to tell him what an inspiration his country is.
A surprising number of Albanians speak English, perhaps
stiffly and hesitantly, but with an American accent (a
contrast to the British accent common in some other Eastern
European countries). Some learned it in school, but many
pieced together their vocabulary from well-worn tape
recordings of Voice of America broadcasts. Several with
perfectly serviceable English informed me that I was the
first native English-speaker they had ever met.
   Americans are playing a leading role in helping Albania, a
nation with only two sets of traffic lights, enter the 20th
century. In January, the Krieble Institute organized a
seminar in Tirana on entrepreneurship. It was run by Robert
Krieble, the 76-year-old retired CEO of Loctite Corp., a
maker of industrial solvents. An audience ranging from
academics to petroleum engineers listened for two days as he
explained how to start a small business. In an ironic twist,
the classroom was filled with paintings of machine-gun toting
Albanian soldiers and Marxist leaders.
   At the same time, 60 opposition party activists attended a
seminar on campaign techniques led by Paul Weyrich, president
of the Free Congress Foundation. The audience huddled in
coats in one of the few rooms in Tirana's gigantic Palace of
Culture that had not been ransacked by mobs last year.
Opposition leaders were skeptical of their chances of
victory. They explained that while they had swept the urban
vote in last year's elections, they had lost in the rural
areas where 65% of the people live. "People were told they
would lose their jobs by local communist bosses," says Maltin
Repishti, a physician active in the Republican Party. "In
other areas, shoes and sugar were made available the week
before the election. People were told {these products} would
disappear if they voted against the communists."
   Mr. Weyrich devotes much of his spare time to helping
opposition parties in Eastern Europe overcome such
intimidation. He and Mr. Krieble have staged over 40 seminars
on political organizing in the past three years, and are
credited by Boris Yeltsin's advisers with helping Mr. Yeltsin
win the rural vote in his race for president of Russia last
year.
   The biggest obstacle to overcoming Albania's rural party
bosses is a lack of transportation. Under the old regime,
private cars were illegal. In 1990, Albania had only 468
automobiles. In last year's elections, opposition parties had
only five cars to carry their message into rural areas.
   Joseph DioGuardi, a former New York congressman who is now
president of the Albanian-American Civic League, has come up
with an ingenious solution. Macedonia, a newly independent
republic carved out of the former Yugoslavia, is home to one
million ethnic Albanians, many quite prosperous from having
worked in Western Europe or the U.S. In February, Mr.
DioGuardi arranged for 60 Macedonians to drive their own
cars, food and fuel into Albania. There they will serve as
drivers for opposition candidates, as they travel from town
to town delivering posters and holding rallies.
   But the ruling party isn't conceding easily. Mr. DioGuardi
had to return to Albania this month after the regime closed
the nation's borders to traffic from Greece and Macedonia.
Nikolla Nosi, the chairman of the Election Commission, said
the move "was customary" for nations worried about foreign
interference prior to an election. Under pressure from Mr.
DioGuardi, Mr. Nosi finally relented.
   Sunday's election will determine how much Albania will
change. If the former communists win, their nomenklatura will
likely retain control of many privatized companies, and
economic progress will be halting. If the opposition wins,
there is a chance Albania can slowly join the mainstream of
European life. Certainly, Albania's 3.2 million people are
more ready to embrace the outside world than at any other
time in their troubled history. At a rock-and-roll rally at
Tirana's Music Conservatory, the crowd leaped to its feet as
Messr. Krieble and Weyrich were seated in a box above the
stage. "U.S.A., U.S.A.," they cheered. "Long live America]"
   ---
   Mr. Fund is a Journal editorial writer