Eye Contact:
   The Videophone Era
   May Finally Be Near,
   Bringing Big Changes
   ---
   New Technology and Impetus
   From ATT's Sales Drive
   Could Open Mass Market
   ---
   An Alternative to Travel
   ----
   By William M. Bulkeley
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The videophone era is at hand. Like many earlier
inventions, it may change our lives. "Just as the auto was
more than a horseless carriage and radio was more than
wireless telegraph, the videophone isn't just a telephone
with pictures. In the end, it will lead to very different
ways to communicate with each other," says Eli Noam, director
of Columbia University's Institute for Tele-Information.
   The videophone will bring together friends and relatives,
business people and customers, doctors and patients in a way
that regular phones don't and with a speed that travel can't.
From the practical to the peculiar, the possibilities are
endless. Corporate executives eventually could be doing much
less traveling, to the consternation of underused airlines
and overbuilt hotels. Lawyers might use videophones for
out-of-town depositions. Work-at-home employees will be able
to "meet" with their bosses. Deaf people will have access to
telephones through sign language. Social workers may counsel,
face-to-face, some patients who can't leave home. Families
won't have to fly cross-country just so grandma and grandpa
can see the grandchildren. And 900-number phone sex lines
could woo customers with, uh, body language.
   Nearly three decades after they burst on the scene, why
are mass-market videophones finally at hand? Because of cheap
but powerful computer chips, small but reliable cameras and
breakthroughs in simultaneously sending video and audio
signals over phone lines.
   "The thing that amazes me is I figured this would be
gradual," says Albert Lill, an expert at Gartner Group Inc.,
a market researcher in Stamford, Conn. "Wrong. Everything is
coming together in 1993."
   Fueling the excitement is American Telephone  Telegraph
Co.'s plan to start selling in May a $1,500 videophone with a
baseball-card-sized color screen that can plug into a regular
wall jack. Though the picture is fuzzy and the motion jerky,
would-be George Jetsons have inundated ATT with inquiries.
"ATT has everyone in the country, from grandma to the
corporate CEOs saying, `By God, I can have one now,'" says
Elliot Gold, publisher of a telecommunications newsletter in
Altadena, Calif.
   For now, at least, the technology is made in America, not
in Japan. Leading the race are two entrepreneurial
highfliers: PictureTel Corp., which makes expensive corporate
videoconference systems and whose technology will be used in
a new PC/picturephone from International Business Machines
Corp.; and Compression Labs Inc., whose equipment is at the
core of ATT's new videophone.
   But, with sales potentially running hundreds of millions
of dollars annually by the mid-1990s, a bruising battle with
Japanese and possibly European companies seems foreordained.
Several Japanese firms, led by Mitsubishi Electric Ltd.,
flopped in the 1980s with still-picture, black-and-white
videophones that few consumers bought. But they plan a second
foray. Eight Japanese companies have recently demonstrated
corporate videoconference systems. Hitachi America Ltd. says
that late this year it will start importing an executive
videophone that Hitachi is selling in Japan for about $7,000.
A Toyota Motor Corp. U.S. affiliate, A.W.  Associates Inc.,
has licensed technology from a U.S. inventor and will
"aggressively seek to open up mass-market applications,"
including a cellular videophone, says Ayao Wada, A.W.'s
president.
   ATT insists that it -- unlike American makers of
everything from television sets to fax machines -- can keep
the lead. "Our consumer-products business is one of the few
successful ones in America," contends Robert Kavner, who
heads that ATT operation. Five years ago, ATT's share of
the U.S. cordless-phone market was "in the teens," he notes.
"Now, we have a 50% or 60% market share," mostly won from
Japanese competitors.
   But Gartner Group's Mr. Lill has his doubts. "In the long
run," he says, "it's difficult to see anybody competing
against the Japanese."
   How fast the market will grow is debatable, too. "It's
quite possible that in 1994 we could have millions of
videophones out there," Mr. Kavner says. That would imply
much faster growth than even the video camera, which hit the
500,000-unit sales level in 1985, two years after its
introduction. ATT plans to rent phones for $30 a day to
people hesitant to buy them and also will install some video
pay phones.
   But skeptics predict that videophones won't become
ubiquitous household gadgets until the price drops under $500
for models with crisp, full-motion color images. "Far
superior technology will come along, and what you see today
will be abandoned," says Norman Gaut, president of
PictureTel, which considered working with ATT on a consumer
phone but later decided not to.
   In May, many customers who rush to ATT phone stores could
be disappointed. "We call it jerky-vision; others call it
Jello-vision," says Kit Galloway, co-owner of the Electronic
Cafe, a Santa Monica, Calif., bar and performance center that
has held "telepoetry" sessions with other cafes using
first-generation, black-and-white, still-motion
picturephones.
   But although scientists still have a way to go to achieve
clear, full-motion color videophones, their progress has been
remarkable. The technology for simultaneously transmitting
both sound and moving pictures has been around a long time.
Yet doing that through ordinary telephone lines -- a task
akin to squeezing traffic from an eight-lane superhighway
onto a one-lane dirt road -- has been a daunting task. For
years, some experts have said videophones would require new
fiber-optic cabling nationwide, a $20 billion investment.
   Behind the recent progress is a technology called signal
compression, and compression techniques are improving so much
that today's lower-capacity copperwire network is proving
adequate.
   First, a video camera shoots a scene. Then, special
digital-signal processing chips convert up to 15 frames a
second into millions of individual pixels, or picture
elements. Other chips select key pixels -- the features of
the speaker's face and clothing, for example -- while
ignoring static background and redundant pixels. Finally, the
compressed image and sound are sent over a phone line to the
receiving videophone, which reassembles the pixels.
   Far more headway has been made with high-priced -- $30,000
and up -- corporate videoconference systems than with home
videophones. That's largely because most big companies
already use high-capacity digital phone lines that can carry
enough data to transmit sound and video that generally looks
pretty good on TV-sized monitors. Coast-to-coast calls on
such lines now cost just $30 an hour, less than cellular
phone calls do.
   By contrast, it would take the equivalent of 5,000 regular
phone lines to send, at the usual 30 frames a second,
TV-quality pictures. Despite using compression techniques,
ATT's videophone can deliver two to 10 frames a second over
a single telephone line, a monumental achievement that
nonetheless delivers only jerky motion. Producing
crystal-clear pictures on regular home phone lines will take
years more work, if it can ever be done.
   Short term, many believe, the business videophone market
may be more lucrative than the consumer market, just as the
business PC has outstripped the home PC, because companies
can justify the cost. Video conferences, once for hard-core
techies only, took off last year when many companies
restricted travel during the Gulf War. About 5,000 expensive
video-conference systems were sold world-wide last year, and
analysts predict 10,000 may be sold this year.
   "Cultural acceptance grew tremendously," says Steven Levy,
an analyst at Hambrecht  Quist Inc., a San Francisco
securities firm. For example, engineers at Apple Computer
Inc. found they could deal efficiently with their
counterparts at Sony in Japan in designing the PowerBook
portable computer. Now, Apple's teleconference rooms are
booked steadily.
   Videoconferences slash travel costs. Bank of Boston saves
$300,000 a year because its London bankers now present loans
to its credit committee by video. David Saenz, special
counsel in charge of fighting jeans counterfeiters for Levi
Strauss  Co., says he can instantly see "a sample of what we
seized in Tokyo" the night before. "I've saved air fare and
all the time of going back and forth, not to mention wear and
tear," he says. Congress has experimented with holding
hearings by teleconference.
   Videoconferencing helps even at shorter distances. Boeing
Co., which has videoconference rooms in 13 plants around
Seattle, estimates its engineers saved five million miles of
driving while developing the 767 jetliner. Prisons in Florida
use videoconference equipment to have Miami medical
specialists "examine" inmates and help prison doctors
diagnose ailments -- eliminating the security risk of moving
prisoners to medical facilities. "You don't like to have
prisoners in shackles sitting in your waiting room," notes
Thomas Natiello, president of Telemedicine Systems Corp.,
which operates a videoconference room in Miami's Larkin
General Hospital.
   However, the real social revolution will come when
videophones enter your home.
   Even first-generation black-and-white, still-photo
picturephones have their enthusiasts. Sue Werlin, a
Lexington, Mass., grandmother, feared she wouldn't get to see
much of her grandson when he was born in Santa Cruz, Calif.,
in 1989. So, she bought two Sony picturephones -- initially
priced at $1,500 but mostly sold, like hers, for a fire-sale
price of only $400 -- and gave one to her son. "When we had
children, we bought a home movie camera," she says. "For
grandchildren today, we bought a picturephone."
   In today's transient society, videophones may help
scattered families and friends maintain ties. "A lot of our
nostalgia for village life is a sense of lost locale," says
David Riesman, the Harvard sociologist who wrote "The Lonely
Crowd." He adds: "We've been able to restore that through
(telecommunications) networks. The hope would be that picture
telephones would bring people even closer together."
   ATT is clearly counting on the family-tie market. Says
Arno Penzias, the Nobellaureate vice president for research
at ATT's Bell Laboratories: "When you have a parent in a
nursing home, you can't see her every day. When you have a
child in college, you want to look the kid in the eye when
you ask if he's on drugs." Mr. Kavner of ATT's
consumer-products division predicts that with frequent
videophone calls, he will cut back on his trips to see his
mother in Arizona.
   The idea of a picturephone requires some rethinking of
telephony. People may try to hide their emotions when they
know they're being watched. "Women might like it better than
men," says Deborah Tannen, a Georgetown University
linguistics professor who studies communications between men
and women. "Women look into each other's faces when they have
intimate conversations, but men are much more likely to
reveal themselves when they aren't staring at each other."
   Ms. Tannen also says she thinks videophones "will be an
intrusion." And the thought of telemarketers using
videophones, she adds, "is truly chilling."
   After numerous focus groups, ATT designers decided to
reassure users about privacy by putting a mechanical shutter
over the camera lens in addition to the button that turns on
the video. (They also dropped the idea of a fold-down screen
because consumers said they would want visitors to see that
they had a videophone.)
   If phone users decide to stay unseen, callers may get
suspicious. Is a friend who won't "go video" unshaved or
undressed? Is the house or desk in chaos? What is he or she
trying to hide? Columbia's Mr. Noam guesses that "in the
home, users will want to maintain privacy with people they
aren't close to."
   Video conversations will rule out many of the white lies
that get people through the day. Workers calling in sick will
have to look sick rather than just sound bad, and they will
have to be at home. While on the phone, people won't be able
to open mail or wash dishes; they will have to maintain eye
contact. And Ilene Kaplan, a sociology professor at Union
College in Schenectady, N.Y., predicts: "Teen-agers will have
to spend a lot of time in the bathroom getting ready for the
phone call as well as getting ready for the date."
   ---
                    The Tortured History
                  Of the Picture Telephone
                                                                                                       

   1964  ATT shows Picturephone at New York World's Fair.
                                                                                                       

   1970  ATT offers Picturephone for $160 a month.
                                                                                                       

   1973  ATT drops Picturephone.
                                                                                                       

   1981  ATT unveils Picturephone meeting service in
         $2,300-an-hour rooms.
                                                                                                       

   1982  Compression Labs begins selling $250,000
         videconference system, using $1,000-an-hour lines.
                                                                                                       

   1985  ATT ends Picturephone meeting service.
                                                                                                       

   1986  PictureTel unveils $80,000 videoconferencing
         system, using $100-an-hour lines.
                                                                                                       

   1987  Mitsubishi ofers $1,500 still-picture phone for
         home.
                                                                                                       

   1989  Mitsubishi drops still-picture phone
                                                                                                       

   1991  PictureTel unveils $20,000 black and white
         videoconferencing system, using $30-an-hour lines.
                                                                                                       

   1991  IBM and PictureTel demonstrate video-phone in a
         personal computer.
                                                                                                       

   1992  ATT announces $1,500 Videophone for home market.