Heard on the Street:
   Alliant Techsystems, Unloved Defense Stock,
   Could Provide Investors With Some Firepower
   ----
   By John R. Dorfman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Maybe discerning investors should. At today's price -- 24
on the New York Stock Exchange yesterday -- Alliant is "too
cheap a stock not to own," says Peter Burrows, a defense
analyst with Fahnestock.
   Sure, the case against Alliant is easy to make. It got
about 75% of its $1.25 billion in 1990 revenue from tank
ammunition and torpedoes. Most of the rest comes from bombs,
mines and anti-mine systems. Nondefense operations (mainly
data recorders and a stalled project to produce an advanced
color copier) have been small and unsuccessful.
   But detractors "oversimplify" Alliant's prospects, says
Robert Lange, co-manager of the Lindner Fund in St. Louis.
Although the world seems "safer in some respects, by no means
is all danger eliminated." Investors, he says, are pricing
Alliant so low that if the company can merely deliver flat
earnings for the next couple of years, its stock price will
rise. Lindner Fund owned 300,000 Alliant shares as of Sept.
30, and has bought more since.
   "Everybody now wants American ammunition. They saw it work
{in the Persian Gulf War}," says Greg Melvin, manager of the
Federated Growth Trust in Pittsburgh, which owns 493,000
Alliant shares and has been buying more lately. Saudi Arabia,
Egypt and Israel all are "approved or likely to be" to buy
Alliant's ammunition, he says. Indeed, exports may account
for 20% of Alliant's revenue by 1996, says Mr. Burrows, up
from 8% in 1990.
   Even in the U.S., Alliant's prospects may be brighter than
pessimists think. The cash-strapped armed forces may buy
fewer tanks and submarines, because those are big-ticket
items. But they will probably buy better ammunition and
torpedoes for the tanks and subs that remain, says Byron
Callan, an analyst with Prudential Securities.
   Fans of the inexpensive stock make a few more points as
well:
   -- Much of Alliant's ammunition is used in training
programs. Those programs go on even when the U.S. isn't
involved in any armed conflict.
   -- Alliant may pick up some extra revenue by using its
expertise to dismantle the many thousands of pieces of
obsolete ordnance still hanging around eastern Germany, the
U.S. and other countries. This market could amount to $2
billion to $5 billion in the next few years, says Fidelity
Investments analyst Jamie Adam Rome; Alliant could get a
decent piece of that.
   -- The company is rapidly paying down the debt it was
stuck with when it was spun off from Honeywell in 1990. The
money that it won't have to spend any longer on interest
payments can go to pay a dividend or to buy back the
company's shares. Either step could boost the stock price.
   Of course, opponents of the stock have their own arsenal
of arguments. Some say the U.S. armed forces already have
adequate ammunition stockpiles. That's hard to prove or
disprove, since the size of stockpiles is classified
information.
   A delicate situation exists in the torpedo business. With
Russia seemingly no longer a threat, the Navy might
drastically slow down work on the Mark 50 torpedo. Also, it
is likely to choose a single supplier for that torpedo
sometime between 1993 to 1995. Right now, Alliant and
Westinghouse Electric are both in the running.
   December-quarter profits were way below last year's. But
the 1990 quarter was pumped up by Operation Desert Shield.
And Alliant says some sales expected in the December 1991
quarter will take place in the current quarter instead.
   Other defense stocks are nearly as cheap as Alliant and
have better prospects, says one analyst, who doesn't want to
be quoted, because he hasn't published a report on the stock.
Lockheed, for example, sells for nine times earnings, "and it
has some extraordinarily high technology."
   Opponents sneer that even the fans of Alliant stock don't
claim Alliant will show much growth. Pessimists say shrinkage
is more likely. But the consensus of analysts calls for
profit of about $4.10 in the fiscal year ending March 31, and
about $4.35 next fiscal year.
   Fidelity Investments, the big mutual fund family, has sold
113,000 shares this year. But at last count, it still held
516,704 shares, and Mr. Rome, the Fidelity analyst, says he
considers the stock "a strong value story" for people who can
hold it two years or more.
   ---
   Alliant Techsystems
   (NYSE; Symbol: ATK)
                                                                                                       

   Business: Armament
                                                                                                       

   Nine-months ended Dec. 29, 1991:
   Sales: $751.7 million
   Net income: $28.4 million; $2.85 a share
                                                                                                       

   Third quarter, Dec. 29, 1991:
   Per-share earnings: 80 cents vs. $1.83
                                                                                                       

   Average daily trading volume: 45,318 shares
                                                                                                       

   Common shares outstanding: 9.6 million