International:
   Italy's Agnelli Family
   Is Dealt a Legal Blow
   In Battle Over Perrier
   ----
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
If Exor is forced to launch a bid to boost its stake to
two-thirds, Agnelli rivals BSN S.A. of France and Nestle S.A.
of Switzerland think that the Agnellis will consider it too
costly to top Nestle's 6.05 billion franc ($1.07 billion), or
1,475-franca-share, hostile offer for Perrier launched Jan.
20. Then the Italians might be easily coaxed to the
bargaining table, where BSN and Nestle hope to wrest control
of Perrier's mineral water assets.
   The Agnelli allies were told by bourse authorities that
they must file a bid proposal for Perrier no later than March
4.
   BSN, increasing the pressure on the Agnellis, launched a
hostile bid Friday for Exor. Yesterday French Bourse
authorities said they have accepted BSN's bid for Exor. The
BSN bid, which counters an existing bid by the Italian
Agnelli group subsidiary Ifint, was acceptable to the
authorities because the price of 1,433 francs a share -- with
dividend coupon -- was more than 2% above the previous bid of
1,320 francs.
   Giovanni Agnelli, however, doesn't appear ready to give up
the fight. After hearing of the appeals court decision
Wednesday, he said, "The war doesn't bother us." Mr. Agnelli
added that "breaking up the companies is no solution."
   Exor has one more chance to avoid a bid. The temporary
waiver had been meant to cover the period during which Exor
is awaiting a decision on its request for a permanent waiver.
That appeals court decision is expected March 27.
   Whether Exor would have to top Nestle's bid for Perrier is
unclear. Legal proceedings could wind up exempting Exor from
bidding. If Exor does end up bidding, French regulators
haven't decided whether it would have to top Nestle's bid, or
simply offer the same, lower price that Exor ally Saint Louis
S.A. paid for Perrier shares in January. If Exor isn't
required to top Nestle's bid, then the Exor bid for Perrier
would be largely symbolic.
   Market authorities also said that quotation of Exor and
Perrier shares and Perrier options will resume tomorrow.