LEISURE  ARTS -- Theater:
   New Plays by Ariel Dorfman and John Guare
   ----
   By Edwin Wilson
Mr. Dorfman, a Chilean himself who was persecuted by the
previous regime and forced to live in exile in the U.S., saw
the story as a perfect parable of people moving from fascist
to democratic governments, not only in Latin America but in
Eastern Europe and the former Soviet Union. The play raises
significant questions: How do people trying to move to
reconciliation treat former political criminals? If the
evildoers from the past are punished too severely, the new
regime is as repressive as the old, but if they are not
punished at all, where is the sense of fairness and
retribution?
   The political dimension of the play is not always
compatible with its personal component. There is doubt that
Roberto is the man Paulina says he is: He vehemently denies
it; Paulina was blindfolded while she was captive. There are
also a few hints that he may in fact be the culprit: He likes
the music of Shubert, and that is what the doctor had played
while torturing Paulina. The doctor especially loved the
string quartet "Death and the Maiden," which gives the play
its title, and so does Roberto, but this is not conclusive
evidence. If we cannot be sure that Roberto is guilty, the
psychological suspense is heightened, but the force of the
political questions is weakened: These questions are only
valid if the party is actually guilty.
   This problem becomes secondary in a taut, spellbinding
production such as the one now on view in London: The action
holds your attention, and the issues Mr. Dorfman wants to
raise are very much in evidence. This is where the Broadway
production runs into trouble. As directed by Mike Nichols, it
may be too glossy and upscale for its own good. One hesitates
to point to the London production, but in this case the
comparison is inescapable and the differences illuminating.
   The beach house there is a cramped, tatty affair that
confines the action; here it is an elegant open structure
straight out of Architectural Digest. There is an
intermission in the production here, but in London there is
none and so the action builds and builds without relief.
Here, Mr. Hackman is so pleasant and agreeable that it seems
impossible that he is guilty; his English counterpart conveys
a sinister quality beneath the affability that makes it quite
possible. As Paulina, Ms. Close gives a very strong,
multilayered performance, but with all its effectiveness it
lacks the distraught, dangerous quality that Juliet Stevenson
brings to the London version.
   Still, this is a production that should be seen. The
issues the play raises are important ones we rarely encounter
on Broadway, and the performers are among our best:
professionals whose talent shines through at every turn.
   If I have mixed feelings about "Death and the Maiden," I
am totally bewildered by "Four Baboons Adoring the Sun," John
Guare's new play at Lincoln Center's Vivian Beaumont Theater.
   Penny (Stockard Channing) and Philip (James Naughton) have
divorced their spouses and married each other. Philip is an
anthropologist, and he and Penny are in Sicily on a dig,
where they will soon be joined by their nine children -- five
of hers and four of his -- whom they hope to integrate into a
single happy family.
   On hand also is the god Eros (Eugene Perry), an amoral
creature who encourages love between people whatever the
consequences. The production operates on two levels: the
family level, in which the kids from the two families are
suspicious of each other but united in their animosity toward
the grown-ups, and the mythic level, in which Eros sings
pseudo-operatic passages about fate and the gods and in which
Tony Walton's epic scenery opens up to create earthquakes,
planets spinning in space, and a galaxy of swirling clouds,
extravagantly lighted by Richard Pilbrow.
   Near the end of the 85-minute drama, the oldest two
children, Wayne (Wil Horneff) and Halcy (Angela Goethals),
both 13 years old, spend the night together and make love,
after which Wayne jumps off a cliff and kills himself. These
actions of the young are not only arbitrary but quite
preposterous. And what Mr. Guare is trying to say about
families, love, pain and death he never makes clear. There
are enough ideas in the air for four or five plays, but not
one of them has been given dramatic shape. The domestic side
of things -- how the characters relate to each other and
suffer misfortune -- is described rather than dramatized,
which, as every beginning playwright knows, is a cardinal sin
of dramaturgy.
   As for the mythical apparatus, it too is a device usually
indulged in by young dramatists who, impressed by the
grandeur of Greek tragedy, bring the gods on stage and have
them chant or intone words rather than speak them. But this
is dangerous business: In a world far removed from the ethos
and dramatic ritual of the Greeks, the modern playwright
risks crossing the fine line between effective poetic drama
and pretension.
   Peter Hall has directed the play in an operatic manner
that has probably done it more harm than good. Ms. Channing
and Mr. Naughton are warm and winning as the couple, but
their attempts to develop continuity in their roles are
constantly undercut by the overlay of mythic material. As for
Mr. Guare, he is one of our most talented and imaginative
playwrights. Why in midcareer he should fall into traps that
usually ensnare only less experienced writers is truly
baffling.