Marketing  Media:
   Media Expansion Is Proving Divisive
   For Christian Science Church Members
   ----
   By John R. Wilke
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Church officials confirmed Friday that they have been
borrowing heavily from the church's pension fund and two
separate endowments set up to endow the church's newspaper
and carry out other church works.
   Critics are questioning whether the church can sustain
continued funding of television and other media ventures and
charge that the borrowing from the restricted endowments may
have been improper and that pension-fund withdrawals could
jeopardize retirees' benefits. They also say that mounting
cash needs induced church leaders to publish a book
previously rejected on doctrinal grounds in order to collect
a $97 million bequest. The bequest was delayed by a
California court last week after it was challenged by
Stanford University and the Los Angeles County Museum of Art,
alternate claimants under the wills of the book author's
family.
   But a senior church official said the loans were made "in
full accord with provisions that established the funds" and
have been monitored by legal counsel and church accountants
Ernst  Young.
   Church spokesman Al Carnesciali said church critics "have
lost sight of our mission, which is to set a new standard for
television journalism." He said church leaders see the TV
investments "as an extension of {church founder Mary Baker
Eddy's} purpose in founding the Christian Science Monitor."
The Pulitzer Prize-winning newspaper specializes in analysis
and international news and has a circulation of about
100,000.
   While the church's television programming has won some
critical acclaim, it has come at a high cost. The church
spends $8 million a month on the television ventures,
according to an internal estimate.
   People familiar with the church's finances say the church
ran out of unrestricted funds last year. To meet the
shortterm cash needs of the church, more than $45 million has
been borrowed or transferred from pension and other funds,
according to internal documents first disclosed by the Boston
Globe.
   The disclosures have triggered alarm among a growing
number of prominent members over the direction of the church
and its finances.
   "Most of us just feel we want our church back," said
Katherine Fanning, a former editor of the Christian Science
Monitor. "We are deeply loyal to the church. But we don't see
what building a global media empire, at huge expense, has to
do with the church mission."
   Stephen Gottschalk, a lifelong church member and an
independent Christian Science historian, asserted that the
church "has been virtually taken over by a small group of
people intent on turning it from a real church into an
essentially secular media empire."
   Mr. Carnesciali declined to address the critics' charges
except to say that an official statement would be released
today. He also wouldn't discuss church finances, calling them
confidential. He said, however, that the church hasn't
considered reorganization under bankrupctcy law, as some
critics have asserted, and that the Monitor Channel is
growing and won't be discontinued.
   The California court dispute arose over the publication by
the church of a book, The Destiny of the Mother Church, by
Bliss Knapp, which equates Mrs. Eddy with Jesus Christ in
contradiction to church doctrine. Its publication by the
church was a condition of the $97 million bequest and church
leaders apparently counted on it to pay back the pension and
other funds. Four senior church editors resigned over the
book's publication, followed by the departure of other
staffers.
   The Church of Christ, Scientist, founded in 1879, is most
widely known for its practice of spiritual healing in place
of conventional medical intervention. While membership
numbers aren't made public by the church, there are an
estimated 3,000 congregations active in 56 countries. Each is
independent, but members also belong to the Mother Church, in
Boston, which sets policies for the denomination.