International:
   World Wire
   ----
   Compiled by Monua Janah
Germany will renew its calls for a "fair" sharing of the
aid burden for Eastern Europe at two international meetings
scheduled for this week, Finance Minister Theo Waigel said.
   "Germany has so far raised more than half of the Western
effort for Eastern Europe. In the long run, that task is too
big for us," he said in an address to a banking group in
Bonn. According to a European Community report released
yesterday, Germany contributed 57% of all promised
international aid to the former Soviet Union, or $45.8
billion out of $79.8 billion.
   Mr. Waigel said Germany will make its plea for a fairer
burden-sharing at a 47-nation conference on Soviet aid today
and at a weekend meeting of the Group of Seven industrialized
nations.
   Separately, foreign banks in Germany held a news
conference in Frankfurt to complain that they pay too much
tax. They pointed out that capital is taxed regardless of the
amount of profit, often resulting in zero net earnings.
                                                                                                       

   RUN ON POLISH PRIVATE BANK
                                                                                                       

   Thousands of Poles rushed to withdraw money from one of
the country's first private banks after newspaper reports
alleged that its founder is wanted for tax evasion in New
York. The run on the First Commercial Bank in Lublin started
Saturday after the Gazeta Wyborcza newspaper reported that
David Bogatin, the bank's majority shareholder, fled possible
prison sentences in the U.S. The Associated Press was unable
to get any comment from Mr. Bogatin despite repeated calls.
According to a spokeswoman, he was tied up in meetings.
                                                                                                       

   RISK REPORT ON SOUTH KOREA
                                                                                                       

   Election fever spells trouble for South Korea's economy in
1992, a report said. Important economic issues risk being
pushed to the background as politicians seek votes in
parliamentary and presidential polls, said the Political and
Economic Risk Consultancy's 1992 report on the East Asian
nation. Candidates would "pump campaign money into the
economy," the report said, and government would spend more on
infrastructure in a bid to gain votes, fueling inflationary
pressure. But the report also said South Korea has become
more politically stable.
                                                                                                       

   FRANCE'S CAMPAIGN IN JAPAN
                                                                                                       

   France launched a three-year campaign to increase sales of
12 key product categories in Japan. The groupings include
food and agricultural goods, chemicals, pharmaceutical and
biotechnology products, aviation products and car parts.
Under the plan, French companies will receive help in many
forms. Japan, one of the world's biggest markets, bought
imports worth $236 billion in 1990. But the French presence
there is weak, consisting mainly of consumer goods and luxury
products.
                                                                                                       

   CHALLENGE FROM ASIAN AIRLINES
                                                                                                       

   European airlines' main rivals will be Asian, not U.S.,
said the chief of the Association of European Airlines. "The
Americans are a big worry . . . but within three or four
years, the main threat will come from the Far East," said
Alitalia Managing Director Giovanni Bisignani, who recently
took over the one-year presidency of the AEA. He said that
once potential for quick expansion in the Pacific market is
exhausted, Asian airlines will look increasingly to what will
be deregulated European skies. Restrictions on competition in
fares and routes will ease in Europe in the next few years
under a two-phase EC liberalization plan.
                                                                                                       

   CHILE COURTS FOREIGN INVESTORS
                                                                                                       

   Chile lowered its tax on profits earned by foreign
investors to 42% from 49.5%. Finance Minister Alejandro
Foxley said the measure is part of a government plan aimed at
encouraging foreign investment. He said the measures include
reducing the time, to one year from three years, that
overseas investors must keep their profits in Chile before
being allowed to repatriate them.
                                                                                                       

   VENEZUELAN DEFICIT WIDENS
                                                                                                       

   Falling oil prices coupled with bloated public
expenditures are widening Venezuela's budget deficit,
financial sources and newspapers said.
   The gap is estimated at $3 billion, roughly 20% of the
1992 budget. Oil earnings account for nearly 90% of the
nation's exports and close to 70% of revenue. When the budget
was prepared in 1991, the government estimated an average
price of $19 per barrel. But Venezuelan crudes are currently
selling for about $13.50 a barrel.
   With such a deficit, Venezuela won't be able to meet
foreign debt obligations of as much as $500 million in the
first half of the year, according to the newspaper El
Universal.
   Meanwhile, newspapers in Caracas headlined what is
believed to be the capital's first death from the cholera
epidemic sweeping Latin America. Health officials are
preparing a public education campaign in the hope of
preventing the spread of the disease in Venezuela.
                                                                                                       

   POSTSCRIPTS . . .
                                                                                                       

   Malaysia plans to ban scenes depicting sex, violence and
horror from television by Feb. 22, local newspapers reported.
. . . China's leader Deng Xiaoping made his first officially
acknowledged appearance in about a year, in the Shenzhen
Special Economic Zone in southern China. . . .
Chadwyck-Healey Ltd. of Britain said it won a contract to
microfilm the vast archives of the Soviet Communist Party.