CBOT to Launch
   Home-Insurance
   Futures Contract
   ----
   By Jeffrey Taylor
   Staff Reporter of the Wall Street Journal
The CBOT, the world's biggest futures exchange, has
mounted a major push to expand its familiar trade in soybean
and Treasury-bond futures contracts to such unconventional
commodities as pollution rights and insurance premiums.
   Notwithstanding the previous problems with
health-insurance futures, the exchange now has homeowners
insurance futures practically ready to go. It announced its
intentions at the annual Futures Industry Association
conference here. Approval by the CBOT's federal regulator,
the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, is expected soon,
the exchange said.
   The homeowners insurance contracts are supposed to track
the profitability of the property/casualty insurance industry
using a ratio of premiums vs. claims. They are designed
primarily to help insurance companies manage the risk of
sudden, unexpected claims payouts, as might happen, for
instance, if a hurricane inflicted devastation across an
entire region. For example, a company worried about the
prospect for damage during late summer, hurricane season,
could buy futures contracts to essentially lock in a preset
level of claims payouts, thus limiting a company's exposure
to damage claims.
   "Innovation is a time-consuming process," said Board of
Trade President Thomas R. Donovan, referring to delays that
beset the exchange's previous insurance futures attempts.
"But in this instance, the members of the Board of Trade will
provide critically needed assistance in addressing the claims
cost volatility affecting the insurance industry today."
   One reason homeowners insurance futures have proved easier
to launch than contracts based on health insurance is the
accessibility of information needed to run the homeowners
futures market.
   With health-insurance futures, the CBOT had an elaborate
plan to build an index tracking premiums and claims. To do
this, the CBOT needed to entice 10 major insurers to agree to
regularly supply their premium and claim information to the
exchange, and many companies balked.
   With homeowners futures, a company called ISO Data Inc., a
unit of Insurance Services Office Inc., will shoulder this
data-collection burden for the exchange.
   One drawback of basing a contract on homeowners insurance
is that only about $20 billion in homeowners insurance
policies are sold annually vs. about $100 billion in health
insurance policies.