Leaders in Videophone Technology
   Are Two Classic Start-Up Companies
   ----
   By William M. Bulkeley
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Compression Labs was founded first, by Wen-hsiung Chen,
who got his doctorate in image coding at the University of
Southern California. "I had a dream of . . . a picture
telephone. I just never thought it would take so much time,"
he says.
   Mr. Chen, now 52, left a job with an aerospace company in
1977 to set up a contract research firm. By 1980, venture
capitalists had invested in Compression Labs, and they threw
out all the founders except Mr. Chen, brought in a marketing
executive and pressed Mr. Chen to come up with a product. In
1982, the company introduced the first commercial device for
compressing, sending and receiving video conferences back and
forth over high-capacity telephone lines. The device made
videoconferences practical though expensive at $1,000 an hour
for the lines and $250,000 for a fully equipped room.
   Two years later, Jeffrey Bernstein and Brian Hinman, who
had been friends since they were five-year-olds in Wheaton,
Md., and had talked about starting a company since high
school, got their masters degrees from Massachusetts
Institute of Technology. They started planning a company to
make videoconference equipment using cheap lines.
   "It was pretty clear you needed about $4 million. We said,
`Gee, we aren't going to do this in the basement,'" says Mr.
Hinman. The two talked to an MIT professor, David Staelin.
"He said, `You're talking about a billion-dollar market
here.' We said, `Sure, that's why we want to do it,'" Mr.
Hinman says.
   Even with Dr. Staelin's support, venture capitalists
disparaged the young engineers. However, S.D. Cohn  Co., a
now-defunct brokerage firm, was interested. The two
entrepreneurs set up PictureTel in 1984, found a chief
executive and a financial officer and promised to halve their
stake in the company if they couldn't produce a prototype in
15 months. They raised $4.4 million in an initial public
offering and had a prototype in 10 months. Their first
product cost about $80,000 but worked on lines costing only
$100 an hour.
   PictureTel -- then known as PicTel -- sold a few units,
enough to start developing a second generation and sell
another $6 million of stock. But by 1988, with losses
continuing, PictureTel suffered a cash crunch; the founders
and other early shareholders had to sell off more than half
their stake to new investors. "Going public is fine if you
don't need to raise additional money. But if you need
additional rounds . . . it gets painful," says Mr. Hinman,
recalling the company's financial woes and 1-for-10 reverse
stock split as it struggled to survive.
   For both PictureTel and Compression Labs, however,
perseverance paid off. They have managed to cut prices while
increasing quality. Now, with equipment costing about $30,000
and lines just $30 an hour, the market is booming.
Industry-wide sales will grow 45% this year to $210 million
and will be $480 million in 1996, predicts Steven Sazegari,
an analyst at Dataquest Inc., a market-research firm.
   The two pioneers have also won respect. American Telephone
 Telegraph Co. and International Business Machines Corp.,
two giants that experimented with videophones for years but
haven't produced any viable products, are relying on
technology from the little companies. Last fall, IBM
demonstrated a personal computer with a video camera on top
that served as an office picturephone; it used PictureTel's
design. ATT uses Compression Labs technology in a home
videophone due in May.
   Strategies differ. PictureTel focuses on the
videoconference market, while Compression Labs provides
compression technology to many markets. Compression Labs is a
partner in developing one of the proposed standards for
high-definition television. Its technology is a key part of a
proposed satellite-based movie channel called SkyPix Corp.
And it is selling a computer board that lets Apple Computer
Inc.'s Macintoshes receive video images over special business
phone lines.
   "PictureTel has been the more focused in terms of its
mission; CLI has been more entrepreneurial in pursuing
multiple missions," says John Rohal, an analyst at Alex.
Brown  Sons Inc.
   Financially, PictureTel is doing better. In 1991 it
recorded its first full-year profit, earning $6 million, or
43 cents a share, after a $1.9 million tax-loss
carry-forward. Sales more than doubled to $78 million.
Analysts expect its sales and earnings to more than double
this year and next. Compression Labs had a 1991 net loss of
$15.1 million, equal to $1.55 a share, after a $18.9 million
write-down. Revenue rose 40% to $72.6 million.
   PictureTel's stock, $11 early last year, closed yesterday
in over-the-counter trading at $46.75, with a stratospheric
price-earnings ratio of 108. Compression Labs, whose stock
has been up and down in the past six months, closed yesterday
in over-the-counter trading at $22.625.
   Why has the technology for videophones come out of
PictureTel and Compression Labs instead of ATT's revered
laboratories? Maybe because they weren't afraid to fail.
   Arno Penzias, vice president for research at ATT's Bell
Laboratories, harks back to the Picturephone unveiled at the
1964 World's Fair. It was unsalable because it required a
phone line not generally available to the public. In
addition, he says, "We got our nose bloodied" by the
commercial failure of ATT's video meeting rooms in hotels.
Researchers kept working on compression technology but, he
says, "No one wanted to be the person who supported the
picture phone."
   (See related story: "Eye Contact: The Videophone Era May
Finally Be Near, Bringing Big Changes --- New Technology and
Impetus From ATT's Sales Drive Could Open Mass Market --- An
Alternative to Travel" --- WSJ March 10, 1992)
   ---
   Corrections  Amplifications
                                                                                                       

   S.D. COHN  Co. Inc., a New York investment company, is
the successor company to S.D. Cohn  Co., which closed down
in 1986, as reported in yesterday's edition.
   (WSJ March 11, 1992)