International:
   Philippines Wants
   A Piece of Moscow's
   Idled Nuclear Power
   ---
   Manila Would Lease Russian
   Atomic Submarines, Ships
   To Generate Electricity
   ----
   By Lawrence MacDonald
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Some observers have concluded that the best thing about
the proposal is that it probably won't happen. Says a Western
diplomat: "Would you want your town powered by a nuclear
reactor sitting in a rusting Russian sub?"
   But those involved in the program are serious. "Our men
are leaving tomorrow for Russia," Pat Gutierrez, spokeswoman
for National Power Co., said yesterday. Two engineers will
inspect seaborne nuclear reactors that the Russians are
offering for lease, she said.
   The proposal is the brainchild of Alejandro Melchor, a
Filipino graduate of the U.S. Naval Academy and the head of
President Corazon Aquino's task force on the conversion to
civilian use of former U.S. military bases in the
Philippines. Mr. Melchor says he first heard of floating
nuclear reactors being used in the Soviet Arctic when he was
ambassador to Moscow from 1986 to 1989.
   "Putting nuclear plants on barges is ideal for developing
countries," he says. "You don't have to worry about waste
disposal" because the Russians would take the entire barge
home for servicing.
   The program also would provide badly needed jobs for
unemployed Russian nuclear scientists, he says. "How do you
keep these Russian nuclear scientists occupied instead of
looking for work in the Middle East?" he asks.
   Mr. Melchor admits he is hazy on the technical details,
but he understands from his contacts that a single nuclear
barge could produce enough power to substantially ease the
Mindanao power shortage. He says the Russians have identified
six nuclear subs that could be made available. Rent could be
paid in pork and garments, to help ease Russia's shortages.
   Still, even the project's supporters acknowledge
complications. A Russian Embassy official notes, for example,
that "some time will be needed to adjust the submarines from
their original purpose to a power-generating purpose."