International:
   Japan's Opposition Parties Press Harder
   For Parliamentary Inquiry of Scandals
   ----
   By Christopher J. Chipello
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Japanese news reports said the LDP is floating proposals
to produce some of the witnesses sought by the opposition
parties, albeit on less-stringent terms than the opposition
has sought. The opposition wants the witnesses summoned under
procedures that would expose them to prosecution for perjury.
That bargaining stance was strengthened by Sunday's election,
in which the LDP candidate was thrashed by a rival backed by
the Rengo labor federation and the Socialist and Democratic
Socialist parties.
   The by-election was only the latest blow to Mr. Miyazawa
since he took office barely three months ago. The prime
minister has suffered through bungled legislative
initiatives, the arrest of a senior political ally on bribery
charges and a highly charged period of trade tension with the
U.S. Opposition parties also are pressing for details on the
involvement of Mr. Miyazawa's office in the 1980s Recruit Co.
influence-peddling scandal.
   One senior LDP official involved in the parliamentary
negotiations was quoted in Japanese newspapers yesterday
evening as indicating that he hopes to get budget talks
moving by early next week. Although the LDP's majority in the
Lower House enables it to pass budget bills on its own,
ramming legislation through without opposition participation
would further damage the LDP's image, something the party
wants to avoid as it faces two more by-elections in March and
a general Upper House election in July.
   Meanwhile, another potential political scandal continues
to bubble: Japanese newspapers have reported on financial
links between Tokyo Sagawa Kyubin, a package-delivery
company, and firms tied to an underworld group. Tokyo Sagawa
is rumored to have been a major contributor to scores of
politicians, and officials in opposition parties as well as
the LDP are said to be wary of an impending investigation by
law-enforcement authorities into the company's political
connections.