International:
   Algerian Police Detain Islamic Activists,
   Pushing Nation Toward a Violent Clash
   ----
   By Peter Waldman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Tension has been building ever since. Tanks and soldiers
sporting rifles and bayonets have been guarding key
government and communication buildings here since Saturday
night. While little groups of unemployed men linger as usual
on the city's sidewalks, drinking coffee, playing cards and
reading newspapers, their chatter has turned much less idle.
   "Am I afraid? Not at all," says one 40-year-old man in
front of a tobacco shop. "Why should I be afraid of a civil
war if I have the holy Koran on my side?"
   Islamic Front leaders have urged their followers --
including soldiers -- to stay vigilant, "ready for any
eventuality." But they haven't called for an open
insurrection. The ruling junta, "professional despots," in
the words of Islamic leaders, is trying to provoke violent
opposition so it can launch a bloody crackdown,
fundamentalists claim. So far, the leaders' caution has
prevailed, but the big test will come tomorrow, on Muslims'
traditional day of prayer.
   Many Islamic Front supporters are biding their time in
anger. "We had a vote. They canceled it. You call this
democracy?" asks a young taxi driver, slowing to a near stop
to make his point.
   Until yesterday's arrests, which the government didn't
confirm, the military-dominated government that succeeded Mr.
Bendjedid had covered itself with a veneer of
constitutionality. On Tuesday, it named a High State Council
to assume presidential duties until the end of Mr.
Bendjedid's term next year. The council is to be headed by
Mohammed Boudiaf, a 72-year-old hero of Algeria's eight-year
revolt against France, who has been living in exile in
Morocco since 1964.
   The military leaders clearly hope that Mr. Boudiaf can
unify the nation. The military's own party, the National
Liberation Front, has ruled the country singlehandedly since
Algeria's independence in 1962. But as Algeria's oil-based
economy has slumped in the past decade, and as poverty and
unemployment have mushroomed, the NLF has been reviled for
corruption. Mr. Boudiaf, untainted in exile, gives the party
a fresh face.
   "The new head of the high council is an excellent choice,"
says Mohammed Toumi, an NLF candidate in last month's
legislative election. "He is a true patriot who will save the
republic."
   To Dr. Toumi, a cardiologist, and to much of this
country's French-speaking elite, saving the republic means
destroying the Islamic Salvation Front. At an informal
meeting of government officials and doctors in Dr. Toumi's
office yesterday, Europeanized professionals spoke strongly
of the need to purge Algeria of Islamic radicals. He and his
colleagues fought for liberation from France, one doctor
said, erupting with anger. "We are not about to lose our
freedom now to some Ayatollah Khomeini," he said, invoking
the late Iranian leader who established an Islamic
fundamentalist regime in Tehran.
   "Here's a party that wants to destroy democracy by using
democracy," Dr. Toumi continued. "It sounds paradoxical, but
to save the constitution, it's necessary to use
unconstitutional means. The Islamic Front must be
eradicated."
   If the government does move to undo the fundamentalists --
and yesterday's arrests may have signaled it already has --
the military is likely to act on three fronts, Algerians say.
The fundamentalists' political party will be outlawed, more
of its leaders will be jailed, and its paramilitary
sympathizers will be hunted down by the army. (Hundreds of
Algerian fundamentalists are believed to have been trained by
Afghanistan's mujahadeen. In December they killed several
soldiers in an attack near the Tunisian border.)
   Some professionals and politicians have condemned Mr.
Bendjedid's forced resignation, calling it a military coup.
One highly respected opposition figure criticized the
military's confrontational policies as playing into the hands
of Muslim radicals.
   But in the comfortable quarters of upper-class Algiers,
relief is palpable, even among some Algerians who say they
had dearly hoped democracy would work.
   Now, many say, with the governing council in place and the
military clearly committed to eliminating what it sees as the
fundamentalist threat, it is only a matter of time until some
pretext is found to forcefully suppress the Islamic Front.
   "The timing all depends on how the Islamic Front reacts,"
said a mid-level bureaucrat in Algeria's Foreign Ministry.
"If they incite the people at the mosques {tomorrow}, the
military won't wait. But if it stays calm, it may be days or
weeks."