Technology  Health:
   Chairman of U.S. Semiconductor Panel
   Says It Should Quit Rather Than Fight
   ----
   By Bob Davis
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Congress created the semiconductor committee as part of
the 1988 trade act to plot a strategy for the U.S. to reverse
its declining competitive position in semiconductors. While
the panel's membership includes senior government as well as
industry officials, the committee's recommendations to prop
up the electronics industry have regularly been rebuffed by
the White House, which believes the proposals would require
too much money and too much government intervention.
   Ironically, President Bush is expected to sign legislation
today that would, among other things, authorize the committee
for two more years. Even so, Dr. Ross, who is also
president-emeritus of American Telephone  Telegraph Co.'s
Bell Laboratories said he thought the committee had already
done all it could do.
   "The nation has been slow to recognize the situation in
industrial competitiveness," he said. But he didn't
specifically criticize the administration or Congress. "You
have the responsibility to advise them, not to rabble-rouse
or embarrass them," he said.
   Dr. Ross painted a bleak picture of the state of the
electronics industry. He said Japan is outspending the U.S.
in semiconductor research as well as in investments. In the
past five years, he added, the U.S. has lost 14 percentage
points in international market share for electronics. If
anything, he said that slide could accelerate as U.S.
companies that produce semiconductor materials and equipment
go bust or are bought by foreign competitors.
   The committee released a report yesterday recommending a
strategy for reversing the industry's fortunes by decreasing
depreciation rates on semiconductor equipment to three years
from five; making a research-and-development tax credit
permanent; stimulating high-volume electronics manufacturing;
and forming consortia for technology development and
manufacturing.
   Most of the recommendations have appeared in prior reports
-- and some of the most controversial recommendations have
been dropped. In the committee's first report, in 1989, the
panel urged the formation of a consumer electronics capital
corporation to finance efforts to resurrect the U.S. consumer
electronics industry. The administration strenuously opposed
the proposal and blocked the release of the report until
shortly before Thanksgiving, when Congress was out of session
and media attention was slim.
   The credit corporation proposal was dropped from
yesterday's report. But Dr. Ross said that the U.S. must
still figure out a way to enter areas of high-volume
electronics because that is where the bulk of semiconductor
sales will go. Otherwise, "we could find ourselves in a
situation where all but {semiconductor} manufacturers in
niches disappear in the U.S.," Dr. Ross warned.
   In the current report, the committee recommended
broadening administration plans to build a high-speed
computer network and so-called intelligent highway systems,
in which drivers would be guided by computerized information
away from traffic jams. Those projects, he said, have the
potential for producing high-volume electronic products.
   Dr. Ross also recommended that the U.S. enter the emerging
market for flat-screen computer displays. The U.S. badly lags
behind Japan in that area, he said, and would need to form a
consortium to pool the $200 million necessary to build a
display manufacturing center. He suggested the Bush
administration take a cue from the Wilson administration,
which set up Radio Corporation of America -- later known as
RCA Corp. -- to build a U.S. presence in the emerging field
of radio communications.