Back to Futures:
   An Investor's Guide to Managed Commodity Portfolios
   ---
   Maze of High Fees, Costs Makes Picking
   Right Managed Futures Fund Critical
   ----
   By Stanley W. Angrist and Elyse Tanouye
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
High returns are a possibility with managed futures. High
costs are a certainty.
   And that makes choosing the right fund all the more
critical -- and complicated -- for investors.
   The managed futures industry has grown up in an
environment that permits higher fees than those charged by
stock mutual funds, in part because of the potential for
higher returns. But the trading advisers -- as money managers
are known in futures who consistently achieve those high
returns are few in number and selective about whose money
they will take. Most of the top advisers won't accept managed
accounts of less than $100,000, and some demand $1 million or
more.
   "Right now there is too much money chasing too few good
trading advisers," says Thomas Basso, a trading adviser. Fees
will come down when there are more good trading advisers with
respectable performance records available to manage money, he
says.
   Meanwhile, investors with smaller amounts are forced to
invest through public funds or private pools, which are much
more costly and generally have lower returns than
individually managed accounts.
   Some managed futures funds take investments as small as
$5,000. But fees and commission costs add up to an average of
around 17% to 19% of the investor's equity a year, according
to Mort Baratz, who tracks the funds in the newsletter he
edits, Managed Account Reports. With fees that high, gross
returns have to be as high for the investor just to break
even every year.
   Some of the newer funds have reduced commission costs,
lowering the total cost to an average of 11%, according to
Mr. Baratz. These costs don't include incentive fees that
investors must pay on any profits earned and typically add
another one to three percentage points to total costs.
   Pools sometimes accept investments as small as $10,000 but
typically require a minimum of $25,000. The annual costs of
existing pools run 13% to 15% while newer pools average 6% to
10%. If the pools are profitable, incentive fees are added to
these charges.
   By comparison, the average stock mutual fund charges about
1.5% a year, and bond funds average about 1%. Trading costs
add another fraction of a percentage point to costs and some
funds also charge an initial sales fee.
   There are three primary parts of managed futures costs: a
management fee based on the amount of money invested,
commissions on each trade, and an incentive fee based on a
percentage of the profits, if any.
   The table with this article shows the fee structures of
six funds and pools. Some have lower management fees but
higher incentive fees. Others charge lower fees, but keep the
interest earned on money used to guarantee futures trades.
   For the six funds, calculations were made to determine
what the trading advisers would have to earn for investors to
break even. Because a number of assumptions were made in
doing these calculations, the results should be considered
only as indications of investors' possible profits.
   Here is a brief summary of the usual fees charged by funds
and pools.
                                                                                                       

   INITIAL SELLING COMMISSION: Not many funds charge one, and
if they do it typically runs from 1% to 3% of the investment.
Sometimes, public funds charge nothing to get in but extract
a fee to leave if the investor bails out in less than two
years. An investor who invests directly with a pool's general
partner may be able to have all or part of the selling
commission waived.
                                                                                                       

   MANAGEMENT FEES: Most funds charge them to cover basic
operating expenses. In the case of funds that use more than
one trading adviser, there are sometimes two management fees.
The first is charged by each trading adviser on the assets
under management, and a second one is charged by the pool
operator on the fund's entire assets. Management fees
typically run from 1% to 6% of the assets managed.
                                                                                                       

   COMMISSIONS: Trading advisers must pay commissions to get
their orders filled. A few years ago it wasn't uncommon to
find them charging their investors $40 to $80 a contract for
getting in and out. Competition has reduced typical
commissions to $10 to $20 a contract. Recently some fund
operators have begun charging a flat percentage of the amount
of money under management without regard to the actual number
of trades.

   INCENTIVE FEES: These charges vary with the profits earned
by the trading adviser or advisers, and usually are
calculated either monthly or quarterly. Normally, funds
compute a "net asset value," similar to a share price, for
each unit of the fund. When the net asset value at the end of
the month or quarter is higher than any previous
period-ending high, an incentive fee is charged.
   Incentive fees are usually computed against both realized
profits and unrealized "paper" profits. Most funds include
the interest earned on investors' capital in computing net
asset values while others exclude it. Almost all funds deduct
management fees before calculating incentive fees. Most
advisers charge incentive fees of 15% to 25% of new net
profits.
   Nearly all multi-adviser funds present special risks for
investors because it is common practice for each adviser to
earn an incentive fee based solely on his performance. This
arrangement means an investor can pay incentive fees based on
some advisers' performances while the fund as a whole is
losing money. A few funds net the performance of all advisers
before calculating an incentive fee for any of them, a
practice that benefits investors.
   Some multi-adviser funds saddle investors with two
incentive fees -- one paid to each trading adviser who makes
new profits and another collected by the pool operator on the
overall profitability of the pool.
                                                                                                       

   OFFERING AND EXPENSES: Investors are commonly charged, on
a pro-rata basis, a portion of the initial offering expense
of the fund. Usually, they total less than 1% of the assets
of the fund. The continuing expenses -- such as accounting
and reporting costs -- vary tremendously from fund to fund,
but typically run less than 1% annually at well-run pools.
                                                                                                       

   INTEREST INCOME: Commodity funds earn interest on nearly
all of the money they put up to secure trades. Some funds
pass this interest on to investors; others keep it as an
additional source of income.
   ---
                                                                                                       

        How Fees Raise the Profit Bar for Investors
                                                                                                       

   Funds and pools can levy fees and charges in a variety of
ways. Six are shown here, along with estimates of the
percentage return their trading advisers would have to make
for investors to break even, and investors' net returns if
trading advisers earned a gross return of 35%.
                                                                                                       

                                                                                                       

                         Fund  Fund   Fund  Fund  Fund  Fund
                          A     B      C     D     E     F
                                                                                                       

 Amount Managed          $4.8  $21.5  $5.2  $110  $2.7  $1.8
  (in millions)
                                                                                                       

 No. of trading advisors  13     1     1     4     6     4

 FEES AND COSTS
                                                                                                       

 Sales commissions        0.0%  2.0%  0.0%  0.0%  0.0% 3.0%
                                                                                                       

 Organizational costs     0.3   0.0   0.7   1.0   0.0  1.0
                                                                                                       

 On-going expenses        1.3   0.0   0.5   0.0   0.5  1.0
                                                                                                       

 Trading advisers mgm't   3.0   2.4   6.0   0.0   0.0  3.0
                                                                                                       

 Commissions annualized   4.5   6.3   3.8  10.0   5.0  2.9
                                                                                                       

 General partner mgm't    0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   2.0  1.0
                                                                                                       

 Trading advisers        20.0  12.0  15.0  20.0  33.3 22.5
  incentive
 General partner         15.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0  0.0
  incentive
                                                                                                       

 Interest credit          3.8   3.8   3.8   3.8   0.0  0.0
                                                                                                       

 Gain needed to break     6.8   8.2   8.9   9.9  11.9 16.5
   even
                                                                                                       

 Investors' return after 19.0  24.1  22.6  21.2  14.3 12.7
   35% gross return by
   trading advisers