REVIEW  OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   Pax Americana
His strategy is to keep the United States militarily
pre-eminent, even as defense spending falls from its Cold War
heights. The goal is to remain strong enough, and
sufficiently engaged in the world, so that no other nation
will want to emerge as a new global threat as the Soviet
Union did after World War II. This also means retaining the
ability to project military force to put down the world's
rogues and pirates.
   The strategy's premise is that history hasn't ended, as
each week proves again. North Korea is building nuclear
weapons and arming the mullahs in Tehran. Saddam Hussein
persists, and China keeps exporting missile technology to
Secretary of State Baker's favorite peacemaker, Assad of
Syria. The former Soviet Union may be years away from
stability.
   And these are just the dangers we know. The Cheney
strategy understands that preserving the peace also requires
enough force to deter enemies we can't foresee, some of whom
may be our friends today. Japan and Germany don't have
military ambitions now, in large part because they feel
confident about America's ability to come to their defense.
If the U.S. retreats too far from the world, their anxiety
will increase until they feel they must re-arm.
   Yet the same Americans who quake in fear of Japanese VCRs
somehow don't seem to mind the prospect of a nuclear-armed
Japan. Mr. Buchanan, who used to be a hawk, calls the
Pentagon strategy "a formula for endless American
intervention in quarrels and war," a "blank check given to
all of America's friends and allies that we'll go to war to
defend their interests." Senator Biden, Mr. Buchanan's new
strategic soul mate, calls it the "old notion of the United
States as the world's policeman."
   This fear of endless U.S. intervention is an old
isolationist chestnut; it will certainly come as a surprise
to the Croats who got barely a nod from the U.S. when they
were attacked by Serbs last year. Filipinos watching the U.S.
pull out of Subic Bay may also have their doubts. In fact,
the Pentagon's real point is to give a U.S. President the
option to use force to protect vital interests, or to
suppress the new form of piracy that is nuclear
proliferation. The point is to spend enough on defense now so
we don't have to spend much, much more in a new arms race
later.
   The Cheney strategy may be the biggest bargain in history.
By 1997 his budget would cost about 3.4% of GDP; that's lower
than before Pearl Harbor and less than half what the U.S.
spent in the booming economy of the 1950s and 1960s.
Discounting for congressional pork and waste, it isn't too
much more than Japan already spends now.
   And anyway, what is the Buchanan-Biden alternative? Mr.
Biden favors "the next big advance in civilization," namely
the utopia of "collective power through the United Nations."
We agree the U.N. can play a more constructive role now that
Soviet communism has collapsed, but do Americans really want
to trust their security to a global committee? Does anyone
think the U.N. would have lifted a finger against Saddam
Hussein without the prodding of George Bush? As for Mr.
Buchanan, his alternative seems to be Fortress America, whose
results we saw in the 1930s.
   In the real world, the likeliest strategic alternative to
Pax Americana is a form of balance of power. Insecure
regional powers will respond to U.S. retreat by arming to the
teeth, causing their neighbors to do the same; the U.S. will
end up playing one against another. In Asia, that would mean
playing China against Japan in their historic rivalry for
influence in Korea. In Europe, we'd have to balance Germany
against Russia; in the Mideast, Iraq against Iran.
   This is precisely the policy the U.S. pursued in the 1980s
in the Persian Gulf, building up Iraq to balance Iranian
power. Saddam proved to be even more dangerous, as no doubt
many another "ally" would prove to be in a balance-of-power
world. Yet this is precisely the kind of volatile, unsafe
world Mr. Cheney's critics apparently want us to rush toward.
   All of which makes us wonder why President Bush felt he
had to dodge this issue at his press conference last week.
We'd have thought that a chance to run against a
Biden-Buchanan axis would be too inviting to pass up. If his
critics really want to make defense a campaign issue, why not
oblige them and run as the real America First candidate?