Foreign Exchange:
   Dollar Falls in Europe as Central Banks
   Intervene to Curb Its Rise Against Yen
   ----
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
That left the dollar to trade relatively tightly in
Europe, with speculator interest curbed by fear of further
intervention should the dollar rise and by the absence of New
York trading due to the Presidents' Day holiday in the U.S.
   The intervention knocked the dollar down to just below
126.50 yen and 1.6077 marks. By late afternoon, however, the
dollar had regained some poise and was quoted in Europe at
1.6225 marks, down from 1.6285 marks late Friday, and at
126.95 yen, down from 127.90 yen.
   Traders said that the thin European trading couldn't be
used to gauge the likely direction of the dollar. However,
the bounce higher following intervention seems to indicate
that the market is demanding dollars, some observers said,
although they remained shy of pre-intervention levels.
   Late Friday in New York, the dollar was quoted at 1.6260
marks, up from 1.6241 marks late Thursday. The U.S. currency
also was changing hands at 127.90 yen, up from 127.65 yen.
Sterling was trading unchanged at $1.7715.
   In early trading Tuesday in Tokyo, the dollar was at
128.10 yen, up from 126.93 yen at Monday's close in Tokyo.
The U.S. currency also was trading at 1.6257 marks, up from
1.6104 marks Monday.
   The dollar's rise in Friday's trading in New York came
after bullish market sentiment lifted the currency out of a
slump caused by poorer-than-expected U.S. economic data.
   The dollar fell to its intraday low of 1.6138 marks on
news that U.S. industrial output fell a seasonally adjusted
0.9% in January, compared with expectations of a 0.5% gain.
But players then rushed in to buy dollars, which caused the
currency to shoot up to its intraday high of 1.6360 marks.
   The dollar's gains completely eroded the losses that
occurred after release of the industrial production data,
which also showed a revised decline of 0.4% in December,
compared with previously estimated 0.2% fall. The dollar was
trading at 1.6223 marks just ahead of the data's release.
   Earlier in the day, the dollar had traded lower on news
that U.S. producer prices of finished goods fell a seasonally
adjusted 0.3% in January, compared with an expected decline
of 0.1%. The latest figure compared with a revised decline of
0.1% in December, which had earlier been estimated as down
0.2%.
   The dollar, meanwhile, moved little against the Japanese
currency. Fears of central bank intervention continued to
keep the dollar stuck in a narrow trading range against the
yen.
   Dealers recently have been reluctant to trade the dollar
above 128 yen, a level it reached briefly on Friday
afternoon.
   Traders were reminded of the possibility that central
banks might act to stem the dollar's rise against the yen by
the comments of several Japanese monetary officials.
   Japanese Finance Minister Tsutomu Hata said foreign
exchange levels were at a "delicate point," and added that
the Group of Seven leading industrial nations would keep in
close contact and respond appropriately. The G-7 concluded at
their Jan. 25 meeting that currency levels at that time were
in line with underlying fundamentals. The dollar was then
trading around 123-124 yen.
   Mr. Hata indicated that the dollar recently had
strengthened too much against the yen and said the impact of
this rise on Japan's trade surplus with the U.S. would be
watched carefully.
   And Japan's Kyodo News Service quoted a senior Japanese
Finance Ministry official as saying there would be
coordinated intervention in currency markets if the dollar
rose "another step."