Marketing  Media:
   Food Firm's Tests
   Strip Cholesterol
   From Whole Eggs
   ----
   By Richard Gibson
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
But yesterday a Minneapolis company announced it is
testing a process that removes about 80% of an egg's
cholesterol. Michael Foods Inc. says cholesterol would be
extracted from yolks, which then would be recombined with
whites in a liquefied, pasteurized product.
   Michael Foods isn't saying when it will start marketing
its product, but the potential could be huge. Given the
nation's cholesterol phobia, everything from pasta to
mayonnaise could be a candidate. Numerous egg-substitute
products already are on the market, but none contains both
egg whites and yolk.
   Investor as well as potential user interest in
reduced-cholesterol eggs has been high. Michael Foods stock
jumped $2.625 to close at $18 a share yesterday in national
over-the-counter trading.
   Still, such products aren't free from uncertainty. Cost is
likely to be a significant factor. No one is sure how much
more the public would be willing to pay for
reduced-cholesterol eggs, particularly when they are only
part of a product, such as a noodle entree or breakfast
sandwich.
   Moreover, the eggs still will contain fat, which rivals
cholesterol as a nutritional concern. Finally, others have
unsuccessfully sought to cash in on the cholesterol issue.
Last year a Pennsylvania company, C.R. Eggs Inc., was ordered
by the government to stop selling eggs from kelp-fed hens;
while the eggs were said to prevent cholesterol buildup in
the body, their iodine levels were considered prohibitively
high.
   The Food and Drug Administration said it is going to
review the Michael Foods product. An FDA spokesman said the
product could be marketed at the company's risk pending a
decision by the agency. Meanwhile, the company said its own
scientists have determined the product is safe. The
Agriculture Department must approve the production plant
being built in rural Minnesota, as well as the package
labeling.
   Michael Foods intends to call its product Simply Eggs. It
already makes a pasteurized, liquefied whole-egg product,
called Easy Eggs, which is used primarily in the food-service
business.
   But an archrival in the egg business says it also is about
ready to announce a cholesterol-stripped egg. Papetti
Hy-Grade Egg Products Inc., Elizabeth, N.J., said it is
"close" to reaching agreement on a cholesterol-stripping
process. "We're working on several processes and could be on
line within 12 months of a decision," said Stephen Papetti,
vice president.
   The cholesterol-stripping process Michael Foods will use
involves encapsulating cholesterol molecules with a starch
substance known as beta-cyclodextrin. The yolk then is
centrifuged and the enrobed cholesterol removed.
   The process was developed by a German company, SKW
Nature's Products Inc., a unit of Viag AG, which formed a $30
million joint venture with Michael Foods. A pilot plant in
Gaylord, Minn., has produced limited amounts of the
reduced-cholesterol product. A Michael spokesman says those
test quantities are being evaluated by food companies and
food-service concerns.
   A full-scale plant, under construction in Gaylord, is
expected to be operational late this year.
   Investor as well as potential user interest in
reduced-cholesterol eggs has been high. Michael Foods stock
jumped $2.625 to close at $18 a share yesterday in national
over-the-counter trading.