China Settles Dispute Over U.S. Patents,
   Copyrights, Heading Off Tariff Threat
   ----
   By Eduardo Lachica
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Devised after six days of hard negotiating, the accord
effectively ends the threat of punitive U.S. tariffs on
hundreds of millions of dollars in Chinese imports. Those
sanctions would have been imposed if these negotiations had
failed.
   The resolution comes as a great relief to U.S. exporters.
China had vowed to retaliate for any U.S. sanctions by
imposing its own high tariffs against U.S. imports.
   The International Intellectual Property Alliance, which
represents U.S. computer, software, motion-picture and other
copyright-sensitive industries, hailed the agreement as a
major breakthrough. As a reward for China's "statesmanship,"
the alliance is prepared to endorse continuing that country's
most-favored-nation trade benefits, according to the group's
general counsel, Eric Smith.
   U.S. trade officials agreed that the Chinese concessions
could help win over members of Congress who still question
China's right to the preferential trade status because of its
poor record on human rights. Most-favored-nation status
assures the best treatment available to U.S. trading
partners.
   Although China took a tough, nationalistic line at various
stages of the negotiations with the U.S., it finally gave in
to most American demands. Specifically, the Chinese agreed to
protect U.S. patents for 20 years after they are filed. That
is a major improvement on an earlier Chinese offer to provide
such protection for only 15 years.
   China also offered to provide similar protection to U.S.
chemicals and pharmaceuticals that are still unpatented
because of protracted Food and Drug Administration tests.
That part of the agreement covers products caught in the
"pipeline" from June 1, 1986, to June 2001.
   As a further concession to the U.S. pharmaceutical and
chemical industries, China agreed that except in very limited
circumstances it won't require foreign patent holders to
grant Chinese manufacturers licenses to produce the patented
goods in China. Compulsory licensing frequently deprives
patent owners of much potential income once their products
catch on in the marketplace.
   "We've gotten {most of} what we've been seeking all these
years," a senior U.S. trade official asserted.
   China agreed to seal its commitments to protect U.S.
copyrighted works by joining the Berne convention, which
requires its signatories to respect copyrights for the life
of the author plus 50 years, by Oct. 15. China also promised
to treat copyrighted computer software as "literary works"
and give it 50-year protection. Previously, China protected
only the works of Chinese nationals or those first published
in China, and it refused to recognize software as "literary
work," according to the intellectual property alliance.
   China's commitments cover existing copyrighted works as
well as those yet to be copyrighted. Moreover, China pledged
to give the holders of software and recording copyrights
control over the rental of their products.
   The Chinese also agreed to join a Geneva convention that
provides copyright protection for sound recordings, by June
1993.
   In addition, the Chinese said they will enact legislation
to protect trade secrets -- confidential information used by
manufacturers -- by June 1994. In the U.S. and many other
countries, trade secrets are treated as commercial property,
but that isn't the case in China and other developing
countries. Trade secrets aren't normally covered by patent or
copyright laws because they don't involve physical inventions
or unique production processes, although they are important
assets.
   The agreement provides for "consultations" between China
and the U.S. on prospective Chinese measures to enforce Berne
convention rules and other promised protections. The
agreement also requires China to enter into a separate
bilateral copyright accord with the U.S. within 60 days.
   Although yesterday's agreement removes one major irritant
in U.S.-Chinese relations, other bilateral trade issues
remain unresolved. The U.S. is still pressing China to
dismantle various barriers to U.S. goods and services,
including high tariffs, import quotas on a variety of goods
and regulations that U.S. exporters contend are unnecessary.
Moreover, despite Chinese disavowals, some members of
Congress continue to contend that Chinese goods made by
prison labor are landing in the U.S. in violation of U.S.
law.