Corporate Focus:
   Mylan Labs' Focus Moves Toward Brand-Name Drugs
   ---
   Strategy Is to Reduce Dependence
   On Lower-Margin Generic Products
   ----
   By James S. Hirsch
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
So why is Chairman Roy McKnight still so angry?
   "We are being discriminated against because we blew the
whistle" on the Food and Drug Administration, Mr. McKnight
says. In 1987, private detectives hired by Mylan uncovered
evidence that an FDA supervisor had accepted bribes, leading
to other investigations that revealed shoddy oversight
procedures and falsified documents in the agency's generic
drug division. As a result, Mr. McKnight contends, the FDA is
now retaliating against Mylan by delaying approval on many of
its 23 drug applications. The company had three drugs
approved last year, which Mr. McKnight characterizes as "very
disappointing."
   "How can the FDA justify withholding approval of a
competitive drug?" he booms. "They've cost the American
public millions and millions and millions of dollars."
   The FDA vigorously denies the charge, citing a report
prepared for the agency last year by three independent
pharmaceutical consultants. The report said the FDA did not
retaliate against the companies, including Mylan, that
testified against the agency in 1989 congressional hearings.
Signaling that it has reformed its ways, the FDA's revamped
generic drug division has stepped up its approval process,
granting 118 applications last year, compared with 80 in
1990.
   Despite Mr. McKnight's concerns about the FDA, analysts
are optimistic that the agency won't leave Mylan out in the
cold. For one thing, the generic drug scandal thinned out the
competition, as one-time heavyweights like Bolar
Pharmaceutical Co. have all but left the generic drug
business, while others like Vitarine Pharmaceuticals Inc. had
to pull drugs off the market and have never fully recovered.
What's more, over the next four years, an estimated $10
billion of brand-name drugs are coming off patent, opening
new markets for generic equivalents.
   Mylan's earnings will grow by 25% to 30% a year over the
next four years, projects James Flynn, an analyst at Kidder,
Peabody  Co. Adds Michael Martorelli, an analyst at Janney
Montgomery Scott Inc., "Mylan was one of the few companies
untainted by the scandal. It has never had an application
turned back because it was incomplete or inaccurate. When
there are more drugs approved, they'll get their share."
   Indeed, last week Mylan received FDA approval of Atenlol
tablets, which analysts say could be a $10 million product.
Atenlol is a generic equivalent to Tenormin, which is used to
treat angina and hypertension.
   But the Mylan drug that many on Wall Street believe could
be a blockbuster is a proprietary product, called Danafate,
that treats ulcers. The drug, submitted to the FDA for
approval in 1988, most closely resembles Marion Merrell Dow
Inc.'s Carafate, a $200 million a year product. Overall,
anti-ulcer drugs are a $2.5 billion industry, so if Danafate
took even a small piece of that pie, it could be a big winner
for Mylan.
   It's not known when, or if, the product will get FDA
approval, and predicting how well it would sell is difficult
because its success will be determined by price and patient
acceptance. But, says David Saks, an analyst at Wedbush
Morgan Securities, "that could be a special drug."
   It also fits with Mylan's strategy of reducing its
dependence on lower-margin generic drugs in favor of
brand-name products, as Mylan moves to become a fully
integrated pharmaceutical concern. So far, the effort is
paying off. The company in 1988 acquired a 50% stake in
Somerset Pharmaceuticals Inc., which makes Elderpryl for
Parkinson's disease. In the fiscal second quarter ended Dec.
31, equity earnings in Somerset contributed 46% of profits.
   Now Mylan wants to expand through acquisitions. Last year,
the company acquired Dow B. Hickam Inc., which makes wound
dressing and two other hospital products, for $50 million in
stock and cash. The key to the deal was DBH's 70-member sales
team with access to hospitals and nursing homes. Previously,
Mylan sold its products primarily to wholesalers and
pharmacies, but the company now wants to sell directly to
hospitals and long-term care facilities. Mylan is also trying
to get products to customers more quickly; it built a second
distribution center last year in Reno, Nev. (Its other
distribution center is in Greensboro, N.C.)
   "There are a lot of drugs coming off patent, but what
happens after that?" Mr. McKnight asks. "We can't sit on our
hands and assume generics will support us forever."
   The 70-year-old executive, who says he has no plans to
retire, has already guided Mylan through difficult times. The
company was near bankruptcy in 1976 when it asked Mr.
McKnight, a board member, to take control. A
Princeton-educated engineer who spent years selling
electrical heating equipment, Mr. McKnight rehired Milan
Puskar to run the Morgantown, W.Va., plant. (Mr. Puskar
co-founded the company in 1961, named it after himself and
later quit.)
   Mylan capitalized on the health-care boom of the 1980s,
churning out generic drugs that now number 55. Between fiscal
years 1985 and 1991, annual sales soared 70% to $91 million,
while profits surged 162% to $32.7 million. And shareholders,
some known as "Mylan Millionaires," got rich. A $500
investment in 1979, with stock splits, is now worth about
$128,000. Reflecting continued investor confidence, the stock
is trading at a pricey P/E ratio of around 34, and was quoted
late yesterday on the New York Stock Exchange at $33, down 25
cents.
   Mylan has also kept costs down with no-frills management.
Readers of the company's 1991 annual report may recognize the
inside photograph of the silver-haired Mr. McKnight and the
mustachioed Mr. Puskar; it's from the same roll of film used
for the 1990 annual report.
   And there's little overhead. On the 10th floor in an old
gray brick building in downtown Pittsburgh, Mr. McKnight is
asked how many people work in Mylan's headquarters.
   "Five," he says.
   "Six," corrects Patricia Sunseri, who handles investor
relations. "We just hired a secretary."
   "We're growing," Mr. McKnight shrugs.
   ---
             Mylan laboratories by the Numbers
                                                                                                       

                     The Fundamentals
                                                                                                       

                                  1991        1992
                                                                                                       

   Sales ($ millions)            $91.08      $95.42
   Net Income ($ millions)       $32.73      $26.21*
   Earnings Per Share            $ 0.90      $ 0.72
                                                                                                       

   *Includes gain of $7.84 million for company's equity
interest in Sunset Pharmaceuticals.
                                                                                                       

   Major Product Lines: Generic and proprietary
pharmaceuticals
                                                                                                       

   Major Competitors: Biocraft Laboratories Inc.; Bar
Laboratories; Danbury Pharmacal Inc.; Schein Pharmaceutical,
Inc.; Lemmon Co.; Rugby Laboratories inc.; Lederle
Laboratories, a division of American Cynamid Co.; and
Warner-Chilcott Co.