Birtcher Plans
   To Post a Loss,
   Cites Write-Off
   ----
   By Amy Stevens
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
As a result of the acquisition, for $36.8 million in newly
issued Birtcher stock, Birtcher incurred one-time, pretax
merger and restructuring expenses of about $4.6 million, Mr.
Whelan said. He noted that the expected results were
calculated on a pooled basis, as if Birtcher had owned Solos
for the entire quarter.
   Excluding the one-time charge, Birtcher's second-quarter
earnings were about $1.3 million, or 14 cents a share, Mr.
Whelan said. The results are based on 9,450,000 shares
outstanding in the recent quarter, after a public offering
last May and the exercise of certain options that swelled the
total outstanding from the prior year's 7,450,000 shares.
(Both numbers were pooled to reflect the 2.2 million shares
issued for the merger.)
   Birtcher, a maker of surgical products and disposable
supplies for the health care industry, bought closely held
Solos in an effort to "position the company for
long-sustainable growth" in the rapidly expanding market for
"less-invasive" surgery, said William E. Maya, Birtcher's
chief executive officer and president.
   Less-invasive, or endoscopic, surgery involves using tiny
instruments and optical devices that eliminate the need for
major incisions. The Solos acquisition means that Birtcher
can provide "everything a hospital would need" for the new
technique, Mr. Maya said. Previously, the company primarily
sold electrosurgery devices, used to stop bleeding in both
conventional and less-invasive surgeries.
   Birtcher also plans to report that its second-quarter
sales were $14.1 million, up from the prior year's $13
million. "Sales were expected by analysts to be higher,
maybe in the $14.3 million range," Mr. Whelan said. "But
we're in the range," he added.
   For the six months, Birtcher plans to report a loss of
$1.1 million, or 11 cents a share, reflecting the one-time
charge, Mr. Whelan said. That compares with net income of
$1.8 million, or 24 cents a share, during the similar period
in the prior year, he said. Excluding the charge, Birtcher's
net income for the latest six months was $2.4 million, or 26
cents a share, he said.
   Six-month sales rose to about $28.1 million from $23.2
million, Mr. Whelan added.