Bush Walks Political Tightrope by Easing
   Restrictions on Abortion Counseling
   ----
   By Hilary Stout
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
President Bush has been condemned by abortion-rights
advocates and medical groups that argue that the "gag rule"
violates free-speech rights. At the same time, anti-abortion
forces have been pressuring the administration to issue
guidelines to enforce it. The president has also faced a
strong conservative challenge in the Republican presidential
primaries by columnist Patrick Buchanan, yet polls suggest
Mr. Bush's opposition to abortion rights could damage him in
the election.
   The Reagan administration imposed the ban on abortion
counseling at federally funded health clinics in 1988 and the
Bush administration has let it stand. Last year the Supreme
Court upheld the rule. Congress subsequently passed
legislation overturning it. Mr. Bush vetoed that bill, and in
an effort to ward off a congressional override, issued a memo
asserting that "nothing in these regulations is to prevent a
woman from receiving complete medical information from a
physican." The override failed.
   In the meantime, while the political and courtroom wars
raged, the abortion-counseling ban was never enforced because
the Health and Human Services Department never issued
guidelines to implement them.
   For the most part, advocates of the right to choose an
abortion weren't assuaged by the narrow exception to the
abortion counseling restrictions in the HHS guidelines
released Friday afternoon. They argued that the modification
was meaningless because the vast majority of patients at
federal family planning clinics don't see doctors.
   Kate Michelman, president of the National Abortion Rights
Action League, called it "government-sponsored censorship, an
unconscionable invasion in the doctor/patient relationship
and a counterproductive measure in a nation that urgently
needs better family planning, not more government
regulation."
   But the National Right to Life Committee, which opposes
abortion, hailed the memorandum, which orders federal family
planning clinics to execute the four-year-old abortion
counseling regulations. "Most Americans will agree with
President Bush that abortion is not an acceptable method of
birth control and should not be promoted by tax dollars,"
Douglas Johnson, the group's legislative director, told the
Associated Press.
   The guidelines state that federal family planning clinics
can refer pregnant patients to facilities that provide
prenatal care and social services, including facilities that
offer abortions. But patients can't be referred to facilities
whose principal business is performing abortions. And, the
guidelines say, a doctor cannot refer a women to a facility
that provides abortions "specifically for the purpose of
obtaining abortions." Moreover, the guidelines say that a
doctor's referral of a women to a facility that provides
abortions must be based on medical, not social, factors.