Regulators Seize Encino, Calif., Bank
   U.S. Alleges Was Controlled by BCCI
   ----
   By Peter Truell
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
A spokeswoman for the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. said
that James Gilleran, California's superintendant of banks,
closed Independence because it was insolvent. The FDIC has
approved the transfer of all deposit accounts to First
Interstate Bank of California, Los Angeles. The FDIC, which
was named receiver, "had determined a payoff of depositors
was required because no acceptable bids for the failed bank
were received, and a payoff was the least costly resolution
alternative," the spokeswoman said. All deposits will be
covered by the FDIC and depositors will be able to gain
access to their funds late today at certain First Interstate
branches in the Encino area.
   In a statement released shortly after the takeover,
Independence Bank's board said that it was surprised by the
move, particularly since BCCI's recent plea agreement had
resulted in it receiving a $5 million capital infusion. The
bank's chairman, Fulvio Dobrich, even claimed that "problems
arising from the bank's illegal acquisition by BCCI appeared
to be under control." In the statement, Mr. Dobrich also
said, "We regret the inconvenience to our customers and
depositors."
   Independence Bank, which has 14 branches in and around Los
Angeles's San Fernando Valley, has 285 employees and assets
of $600 million. Its capital has dwindled because of bad
loans and poor management, and as of Sept. 30, 1991,
Independence had capital of only $5.5 million, a senior bank
officer said. In the past week, an attempt to use $35 million
of BCCI's deposits in California to shore up the bank's
capital was vetoed by bank regulators.
   BCCI itself was shut down by regulators in the U.S. and
several other countries on July 5, 1991, after investigations
by the office of Manhattan District Attorney Robert
Morgenthau showed that the bank was involved in massive fraud
and a string of other wrongdoings, including the illegal and
covert ownership of several U.S. financial institutions,
including Independence.
   Liquidators for BCCI recently pleaded guilty in federal
court in Washington to a catalog of crimes, including
money-laundering, bank fraud and tax evasion. As part of that
settlement, BCCI forfeited its U.S. assets. About half of
these, or $275 million, would be set aside to help support
Independence and First American. That money will be available
over the coming months as the liquidators and others sort
through the wreckage of BCCI. But for the time being, the
FDIC will use its own funds to back up Independence Bank's
transferred deposits. In time, the FDIC expects to be
reimbursed in full under the terms of the recent settlement.
   Meanwhile, a search for additional capital continues at
First American Bank shares Inc. -- another U.S. banking
institution that the Federal Reserve has alleged was
illegally controlled by BCCI.
   Nicholas Katzenbach, the bank's chairman, has been
visiting Abu Dhabi, where he has been discussing First
American with the emirate's ruler, Sheik Zayed bin Sultan
al-Nahyan. Sheik Zayed owned at least 77% of BCCI, which in
turn covertly owned about 60% of First American. Sheik Zayed
and his family hold substantial additional shares in First
American.
   Sheik Zayed and his representatives have tussled with U.S.
regulators about the appointment of an independent trustee to
take over BCCI's shares in both First American and
Independence. The sheik and his representatives are eager to
have a say in appointing the trustee. But some U.S.
regulators, keen to ensure the trustee is truly independent,
are adamant that the previous owners of BCCI should have no
part in the appointment.
   Independence Bank was supposedly acquired by Mr. Pharaon
in 1985. But according to the Fed, Mr. Pharaon was fronting
for BCCI. On Sept. 17, 1991, the Federal Reserve imposed a
$37 million fine on Mr. Pharaon, alleging he had violated
U.S. banking laws "in connection with BCCI's illegal
acquisition of Independence Bank."
   Meanwhile, plaintiffs' lawyers said yesterday that they
refiled a lawsuit on behalf of BCCI depositors seeking
damages from nearly 70 defendants who performed work for
BCCI. The suit, filed in federal court in Los Angeles,
charges that the defendants assisted BCCI in defrauding
depositors of millions of dollars. An earlier complaint had
been dismissed this month because a federal judge said it
wasn't specific enough. The new complaint, more than 400
pages long, is roughly twice as long as the earlier one.