International:
   Ukraine Falters Over Creating Currency
   ---
   Russia's Price Explosion
   Leads to Turmoil for Kiev
   ----
   By Tim Carrington
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
If it hadn't raised prices in line with Russia, market
forces would have sucked Ukraine dry of food and consumer
goods as Russians sought cheaper goods than they could get at
home. But for Ukraine, the result is monetary mayhem:
Transactions now are for dollars, rubles and hastily printed
"coupons" -- the stopgap Monopoly money the National Bank of
Ukraine hired a French printer to churn out.
   Amid this bonfire of currencies, Ukrainians await the
"grivna," pronounced HRIVna, that's meant to be the permanent
national currency, due this summer.
   As Western Europe marches toward monetary integration and
a single currency, politicians in the East are embracing
monetary disintegration. "To have your own currency is to
have your own country," declares Volodymir Pylypchuk, head of
Ukraine's commission on economic reform and management, who
is a powerful mover and shaker in the new government. Other
former Soviet republics are also planning their own notes,
though most aren't moving as quickly as Ukraine.
   Creating currencies is the most treacherous job of
economic independence. A worthless, hyperinflationary money
attacks the entire economy: Foreign investors steer clear,
panicky consumers hoard, producers sit on goods, and
gangsters feed on the confusion.
   The situation is causing havoc here in the markets of the
Ukraine capital. Prices of meat and produce have shot up by a
factor of five or sometimes 10. Most food staples are bought
with coupons, but more costly items still sell for rubles.
Other goods and services -- mostly things that foreigners and
a few of the local elite buy -- go for dollars. As a result,
shopping has become a spectator sport: People shove their way
into stores to see what prices and what currencies are being
demanded, then leave empty-handed.
   "They're not buying much," says the uniformed sales lady
at a state store. "Everything has changed."
   Particularly the prices: A plentiful bin of chocolates
behind her displays a price of 63 coupons, or $6.30, a
kilogram (2.2 pounds). That's considerably cheaper than
good-quality chocolate in the U.S. or Europe, but in Ukraine
it's more than twice the minimum monthly wage in rubles. A
month ago, the same candy would have sold for about 20 cents'
worth of rubles. "I think they're crazy in the government,"
says a butcher at a meat cooperative that offers a confusion
of prices in rubles and coupons, all vastly higher than at
the first of the month. "I think we're all crazy."
   Ukraine's new government isn't really crazy, just woefully
inexperienced when it comes to money matters. The National
Bank of Ukraine has just become a central bank rather than an
outpost of Moscow's Gosbank. At the moment, the bank employs
only one economist and no supervisory officials. It has never
tried to measure money supply; but that doesn't matter much,
because the central bank isn't in charge of the supply of
coupons right now. The politicians are.
   Bank officials know Ukraine has a lot of trade with Russia
-- its supplier of oil, gas and timber -- but they can't say
how much of the economy is tied up in inter-republic
commerce. In fact, the bank doesn't know the size of
Ukraine's gross national product, the value of all goods and
services produced. Nobody does.
   "This system will destroy itself in a couple of months,"
says Oleksander Savchenko, deputy governor of the National
Bank of Ukraine. "The grivna is my last hope. But if we're to
introduce the grivna in five or six months, we must establish
a real central bank, we must take control of all
hard-currency circulation, we must calculate the balance of
payments and calculate our gross national product." The
Ukrainian government is paying Canadian Bank Note Co. $30
million to print up the first supply of grivnas.
   The West is mustering help. The International Monetary
Fund and the Bank of England have put on crash courses on the
basics of central banking and monetary management. The
government plans to set up a school of public administration
to create a better class of bureaucrats. George Yurchyshyn, a
Ukrainian-born American with 22 years of international
banking experience at Bank of Boston, has moved to Kiev to
take the job of deputy of the National Bank of Ukraine.
   "The difference between here and Eastern Europe is that
they at least had central banks," he says. "They may have
been mediocre, but they existed. Here there were no
institutions."
   Mr. Yurchyshyn's first task has been to make it possible
for the bank to create foreign-currency accounts. Moscow's
effectively bankrupt Vnesheconombank used to gather in all
foreign-currency holdings from the republics, and officials
in Kiev say it still holds an estimated $500 million in
foreign-currency reserves that belong to Ukraine. Ukraine has
offered to unilaterally pay back its share of the former
Soviet Union's foreign debt but insists that Moscow give it
back its share of such Soviet assets now held by Russia.
   From a theoretical view, says Mr. Yurchyshyn, the grivna
and its forerunner the coupon are being born prematurely.
"First there should be a balanced budget, a rudimentary tax
system, a little demonopolization and some privatization," he
says. "Then you free up prices and bring in a new currency."
But, he adds, "Ukraine had no choice but to react to what
Russia was doing."
   Fears that Russia's monetary chaos would spread to Ukraine
led to the coupons -- which at first were handed out in big
sheets that citizens were supposed to cut into individual
coupons. Now they're on flimsy paper that looks like money
for a board game. Ukrainian workers are paid in both rubles
and coupons, though some enterprises have complained they
can't obtain enough coupons.
   The cheap-looking notes offer an opportunity for
criminals: An official at the National Bank of Ukraine shows
a visitor a handful of coupons produced by a laser copier,
almost indistinguishable from the real ones. He says that he
didn't run them off himself as an experiment but, without
providing details, says he "found" them, presumably in
circulation somewhere.
   Chintzy-looking or not, the coupons will soon replace
rubles as legal tender in Ukraine. Kiev officials say this is
necessary because the Russians might go on another
ruble-printing binge and throw the Ukraine economy into
deeper chaos.
   Dollars are really the currency of choice. Westerners
assumed to be carrying hard currency meet with a stony
insistence that they pay with Western currencies for
purchases or taxi rides.