OTC Focus:
   Fund Managers Search for Bargains
   Among the Piping Hot Smaller Issues
   ----
   By Anne Newman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
So where are the bargains in small stocks? Among last
year's slowpokes, environmental and cellular stocks are on
this year's buy list for Daniel Leonard of Denver's Financial
Funds and Robert Czepiel, manager of the Robertson Stephens
Emerging Growth Fund. Some managers see a few bargains left
in the hot technology sector. Others are prospecting among
initial public stock offerings that didn't take off, and
among out-of-favor "value" stocks that continue to look
cheap.
   Digging through environmental-services stocks, Financial
Funds' Mr. Leonard finds Enclean still reasonably priced. At
Friday's close of 19, shares of the Alvin, Texas, company
sell at 23 times the last 12 month's earnings and 19 times
Mr. Leonard's estimated earnings of $1 a share for fiscal
1992 ending in June. Still, Mr. Leonard says that is not too
much to pay, as he expects Enclean's earnings to grow 25% or
more a year. He has similar expectations for Matrix Service,
which at 25 1/2 is hovering below its 52-week high of 30 1/4.
   Biotechnology stocks are too hot to touch for Mr. Czepiel;
he has pared his holdings in the group to less than 2% from
10% of the $290 million in stocks that he manages for
Robertson Stephens  Co. But Mr. Czepiel has beefed up his
investments in lagging cellular shares to 12% of his
holdings. He owns McCaw Cellular Communications; Contel,
which is majority owned by GTE Corp.; newly public Century
Cellular; Telephone  Data Systems, listed on the American
Stock Exchange; and Century Telephone Enterprises, listed on
the New York Stock Exchange. He ranks McCaw and Telephone 
Data among his best bets.
   Despite the recession, Mr. Czepiel notes, cellular
companies continued to gain customers. Cowen  Co. estimates
that two million new subscribers signed on in 1991. Many of
the companies are beginning to generate substantial operating
cash flow, or operating earnings before interest and
depreciation, Mr. Czepiel says. Falling interest rates, he
adds, should boost cash flow for the debt-laden cellular
companies. He isn't concerned about competition anytime soon
from companies developing alternative communication
technologies. Mobile-radio operator Fleet Call Inc., he
notes, recently had to pull its initial public offering.
   In the hot technology group, where pace-setters such as
Novell are selling at more than 60 times the last 12 months'
earnings, a few fast-growing companies still look reasonable
to several technology investors.
   One is Exabyte, a pick of Financial Funds' Mr. Leonard and
David Alger of the Alger Small Capitalization Fund. The
fast-growing Boulder, Colo., company makes cartridges used to
back up computer memories; its format recently was adopted as
an industry standard. At Friday's close of 33 3/4, the stock
sells at about 23 times Mr. Alger's estimated 1991 earnings
of $1.46 a share and about 16.5 times his estimated 1992
earnings of $2.04 a share.
   Marcam, a maker of software for inventory control, also
appeals to Mr. Alger. The company stumbled last year because
of a tough product transition and the recession, but he
thinks it is back on track. At Friday's close of 22, the
company's shares sell at 34 times estimated 1992 earnings of
64 cents a share and 20 times estimated 1992 earnings of
$1.05.
   IPOs were among the hottest areas of the small-stock
market last year; many new issues soared as soon as they went
public. Some of the IPOs that stumbled may be worth a second
look, managers say, but they caution that fallen IPOs can be
a mine field.
   Among the lackluster IPOs that didn't take off last year,
RehabCare appeals to John Ballen of MFS Lifeline Emerging
Growth Fund. RehabCare, a St. Louis operator of
rehabilitation facilities, tumbled from its $13-a-share
offering price after its lead underwriter warned of
higher-than-expected labor costs and start-up expenses
related to a joint venture with Beverly Enterprises.
   But Mr. Ballen, a RehabCare shareholder, expects that the
company will control costs. He notes that the company's
revenue is on target, and he is optimistic about its
agreement to run a nationwide network of programs in
Beverly's nursing homes. At 10 1/4, the stock sells at about
16 times estimated earnings of 60 cents a share for 1992
ending in February.
   When Alliance Imaging fell to 5 from its offering price of
$8.50 a share, Walter Kass of Curators Capital Management
tripled his holdings in the La Palma, Calif., provider of
magnetic resonance imaging machines for hospitals. Alliance,
which cut its original offering price, stumbled after
retiring less debt than expected and after some orders were
delayed; they have since come through. Now back at 8 1/2, the
stock is trading at about 26 estimated 1991 earnings of 32
cents a share. While not cheap on an earnings basis, the
stock's $2-a-share in operating cash flow makes Mr. Kass see
it as a bargain.
   "Value" investors revel in shunned stocks that are cheap
relative to their book value, earnings and other measures.
The book value is assets minus liabilities. But the value
crowd has been badly outgunned by growth-stock funds. Ken
Fisher of Fisher Investments of Woodside, Calif., figures the
day will arrive when undervalued stocks such as Pool Energy
Services will race ahead. Hovering near its 52-week low, the
stock of the oil field service company trades at about 16
times the last 12 months' earnings; the company has no debt,
strong cash flow and, Mr. Kass says, is poised for a recovery
in the oil patch.
   Despite the slowdown in California's economy, Mr. Fisher
expects that health maintenance organization FHP
International, based in Fountain Valley, Calif., will keep
gaining market share. Its shares are a bargain, he says, at
12 times the last 12 months' earnings and less than two times
book value.
   ---
                   Small-Stock Bargains
                                                                                                       

   VALUE
                                                                                                       

   Pool Energy Services                   6 5/8
   FHP International                     15 3/4
                                                                                                       

   LACKLUSTER IPOs
                                                                                                       

   RehabCare                             10 1/4
   Alliance Imaging                       8 1/4
                                                                                                       

   CELLULAR
                                                                                                       

   McCaw Cellular Comm.                  34 1/8
   Telephone  Data                      36 1/8
                                                                                                       


                                                                                                       

   Exabyte                               33 3/4
   Marcam                                22
   ---
   Friday's Market Activity
                                                                                                       

   Over-the-counter stocks snapped their record-breaking
winning streak as investors pocketed their profits amid fears
of rising interest rates.
   The Nasdaq Composite Index tumbled 4.10 to 615.70, or
0.66%, as OTC volume dropped to 259.4 million shares from
Thursday's record 327.8 million shares. Declining shares
edged out advancers 1,196 to 1,044, but 203 stocks reached
highs as only 13 fell to new lows.
   Aldus plunged 8 1/2 to 33 1/2 after the software maker
said late Thursday that it will report fourth-quarter net
income of 27 cents to 32 cents a share, well below
yearearlier profit of 51 cents and analysts' estimates of 47
cents to 56 cents a share.
   Pioneer Hi-Bred dropped 2 to 70 1/4. The company reported
a loss of $1.10 a share for the first quarter ended Nov. 30,
compared with a year-earlier loss of $1.23 a share.
   Applied Immune Sciences fell 3 to 24 1/2 after the
biotechnology company said that it plans to sell two million
new shares. Applied Immune went public last May at $12 a
share.
   Sun Microsystems rose 2 to 30 7/8. Analysts at Kidder,
Peabody  Co. and Dean Witter Reynolds raised their earnings
estimates for Sun's fiscal second quarter ended in December,
citing stronger-than-expected shipments by the maker of
computer workstations.
   H.B. Fuller jumped 3 1/4 to 67 1/2 after the company
reported that net income for the fourth quarter ended Nov. 30
rose to 95 cents a share from 88 cents a share a year
earlier.
   Marquest Medical climbed 2 1/8 to 9 3/4. The Food and Drug
Administration authorized the company to resume production
and distribution operations at two sites in Colorado. The
operations have been idle since October, when Marquest signed
a consent decree allowing the agency to inspect its products
and facilities there.
   Value Merchants climbed 2 1/4 to 35 1/4 after the
close-out merchandiser's president, Steven J. Appel, said
that he expects sales for the year ending next month will be
70% above fiscal 1991 sales.