Credit Markets:
   `Mini-Munis' Open Doors for Small Investors
   ----
   By Earl C. Gottschalk, Jr.
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Many investment advisers agree that mini-muni bonds are
worth a look by small investors -- as long as they're
absolutely sure they won't need the money back before the
bonds mature.
   For many years, individual municipal bonds were available
only to well-to-do investors who had $25,000 or more to shell
out. In high-tax states such as New York and California,
small spenders had to do without the tax advantages of
individual municipal bonds -- or buy municipal bond mutual
funds, where the return on investment was unpredictable.
   But now New York City, eager to tap the "buy-and-hold"
market, plans to offer small investors bonds costing as
little as $1,221; that price is for a "zero coupon" bond with
a $5,000 face amount, meaning that the investor knows he'll
get $5,000 when the bond matures -- the original amount he
paid, plus interest.
   New York City is only one of a wave of cities, states and
utilities that are offering municipal bonds in small
denominations to individual investors this year. Among the
first states to sell mini-munis was Massachusetts, which back
in 1979 sold $1 million of bonds in denominations as small as
$100. Dozens of other cities and states have since gone the
mini-muni route.
   In New York, a $50 million general-obligation offering of
what have been dubbed "NYC Bonds" in $5,000 denominations
will be priced in the next two weeks. A group of brokerage
houses led by Prudential Securities Inc. is currently taking
expressions of interest from investors. Underwriters estimate
that yields will range from 6.5% for a five-year bond to
7.25% for a 20-year; all these bonds are the zero-coupon
variety. For a New York City resident, these yields are
exempt from federal, state and city taxes -- not bad, at a
time when bank certificates of deposit yield a taxable 3.6%.
   "If you are willing to buy and hold these bonds, they are
terrific for a New York City investor," says Susan G.
Peabody, vice president and municipal bond strategist at
Lyons Capital Management in New York. A New York City
resident in the 31% federal income tax bracket would have to
get a taxable bond returning 10.74% to match the 6.5% return
on a five-year New York City mini-bond. "You are getting paid
to take the risk of the city's financial problems," she says.
   If the bond sale goes well, New York City says it will
offer the mini-muni bonds twice a year.
   Meanwhile in New Jersey, investors will soon be offered
$30 million of Garden State Savings Bonds, which are
revenue-bond obligations of the New Jersey Turnpike
Authority. These are really small minis, with denominations
of $1,000. The New Jersey bonds will be insured while the NYC
mini-bonds aren't.
   California plans to launch a new minibond program this
spring, says State Treasurer Kathleen Brown. "There's
tremendous interest out there among small investors," says
Ms. Brown. "Our new program will be `mini-mini' bonds, and
will be a novel way to tap this growing market." Last year,
California sold $52 million of mini-bonds in $1,000
denominations.
   Among public utilities, the Salt River Project, a large
electric utility in Phoenix, Ariz., last month completed a
$52 million sale of mini-revenue bonds. Zero-coupon 15-year
bonds were sold in denominations of $200 each;
interest-bearing bonds were offered in $500 denominations.
Carroll M. Perkins, general manager of the utility, says it
saved $520,000 in brokerage fees by selling the bonds
directly to Arizona investors.
   Most mini-bonds are the zero-coupon variety. Many cities
and states market them as a way to save for a child's college
education, or for retirement. But even mini-bond advocates
say they aren't for everyone and should be only part of an
investor's portfolio.
   Minis have a number of attractions, financial advisers
say.
   One nice thing is that the zero-coupon kind have no
"reinvestment risk," says Stan Young, vice president at P.R.
Taylor Inc., a Palo Alto, Calif., investment banking and
financial advisory firm. In other words, because interest is
compounded and paid only at maturity, investors don't need to
worry about where to reinvest money twice a year.
   Peter Prentis, vice president, investments, for Prudential
Securities in New York, likes to use New York City minibonds
as part of an investment program because "You know absolutely
how much money you will get at a future date." Unlike stocks
or muni-bond mutual funds, they gave some people "peace of
mind," he says. In addition, the New York City mini-bonds
charge no management fees -- unlike muni bond mutual funds.
(But mutual funds do offer diversification and professional
management.)
   Another benefit: In contrast to U.S. Treasury zero-coupon
bonds -- which are federally taxable but exempt from state
and local taxes -- investors don't have to pay tax on
"imputed interest" every year.
   New York City minis pay sharply higher interest rates than
the much safer U.S. Treasury zeroes. For example, a New York
City resident in the 31% federal tax bracket would get a
tax-free 7% yield on a 10-year New York City mini-bond,
compared with 5.38% on a 10-year Treasury zero after paying
federal income tax, Mr. Prentis says.
   There are drawbacks, of course.
   A big risk of the New York City minibond is that "You will
take a bath if you have to sell the bond before it matures,
since the market for such small bonds is illiquid," says
Marilyn Cohen, president of Capital Insight Brokerage,
Beverly Hills, Calif. "Buyers must hold these bonds to
maturity." Zero-coupon bonds are the most volatile type of
fixed income investment if sold before they mature, she adds.
   There's also the usual bondholder risk of interest rates
rising, leaving the minibond holder stuck with a
lower-yielding investment.
   And some analysts are troubled over the credit risk for
New York City general-obligation bonds. The city is facing
huge costs for health care for poor people and for caring for
AIDS patients. Outstanding New York City issues are currently
rated Baa-1 by Moody's Investors Service Inc. and
single-A-minus by Standard  Poor's Corp. Those ratings
signify a low-tier of investment-grade issues.
   New York City has never defaulted on general-obligation
long-term bonds. But as a result of a financial crisis in
1975, New York City did default on short-term notes. Most of
the notes were converted into long-term bonds, and the city
paid principal and interest payments on these bonds over a
longer time period. Holders of the notes eventually got their
principal and interest paid.
   Robert Bissell, senior vice president in Wells Fargo
Bank's Private Banking Group in Los Angeles, argues that New
York City residents should forget about buying the city's
bonds. "A little increment of after-tax income is paltry when
things go wrong -- as they are likely to do in New York
City," he says. Mr. Bissell won't predict that the city will
default but says that the budget pressures and crumbling
infrastructure don't present a "sound credit risk."
   Others say the city, as usual, will survive. "You will go
through some ups and downs, but if you hold your bonds to
maturity, you will do very well," says Ms. Peabody, the New
York municipal strategist, who runs five municipal bond
mutual funds. "If New York City ever defaulted on these
bonds, people would storm City Hall," says Zane B. Mann,
editor of the California Municipal Bond Advisor, a Palm
Springs, Calif., newsletter. "The politicians might default
on short-term notes with banks, but they would never default
on these people."
   Investment pros caution investors, however, not to use
these bonds as their sole investment vehicle to provide for a
child's or grandchild's education. The interest rates won't
keep pace with the increase in college costs, says William
Brennan, partner in the Washington, D.C., office of the Ernst
 Young accounting firm. Mr. Brennan suggests the bonds be
used along with investments in stock mutual funds to provide
enough money for a child's college education.
   ---
   Friday's Market Activity
                                                                                                       

   Investors dumped large amounts of short-term Treasurys
Friday on widespread speculation that the Federal Reserve
won't reduce interest rates any further.
   Short-term Treasury securities are a favorite investment
choice for traders and speculators when the Federal Reserve
is in the process of reducing interest rates. That's because
prices of short-term securities rise quickly in response to
Fed easing.
   Traders now believe there is limited upside potential for
short-term securities. Moreover, the market for short-term
securities, already laden with supply, gets another deluge of
new supply this week as the Treasury auctions a record $14.25
billion of two-year notes tomorrow and a record $9.75 billion
of five-year notes Wednesday.
   In when-issued trading, the yield on the new two-year
notes ended at 5.48% while the yield on the five-year note
ended at 6.77%. Those yields were up sharply on the day from
5.365% and 6.6975%, respectively.
   The bond market's bellwether security, the 30-year
Treasury bond, ended at a price of 100 16/32, down 1/2 point,
or $5 for a bond with a $1,000 face amount. The issue's
yield, which moves in the opposite direction of its price,
rose to 7.94% from 7.905%.
   Traders said the bond market got off to a shaky start when
rumors circulated that the Federal Reserve Bank of
Philadelphia's monthly business outlook survey would show
considerable improvement in that region's manufacturing
sector.
   When the survey was finally released, it showed that
business activity was slightly better than in January,
although the index remained in negative territory. The
Philadelphia Fed's diffusion index of general business
conditions registered a negative 0.9% in February compared
with negative 1.6% in January.
   Bond market participants failed to take heart from that
news, however, and prices remained at depressed levels.
   ---
   Corrections  Amplifications
                                                                                                       

   SUSAN G. PEABODY is vice president at Alliance Capital
Management. Alliance was incorrectly identified in
yesterday's edition.
   (WSJ Feb. 25, 1992)