What's News --
   World-Wide
The Moscow meeting is being held to start discussion of a
number of secondary Arab-Israeli issues, such as arms control
and water rights.
   ---
   Clinton and his wife denied a woman's allegation that she
and the Democratic presidential hopeful had a 12-year affair.
But in an interview with CBS, the Clintons wouldn't discuss
details of their marriage. The Arkansas governor gave the
interview in an effort to end a controversy that has stalled
his campaign.
   ---
   A right-wing Hindu party marked India's Republic Day by
hoisting the Indian flag in the northern city of Srinagar,
the center of a Muslim rebellion. The flag-raising ceremony,
performed by members of the Bharatiya Janata Party amid heavy
security and with few spectators, capped a violence-ridden
9,000-mile unity march across India.
   ---
   Chinese Prime Minister Li Peng arrived in Rome on his
first trip to the West since 1989, and he faced a barrage of
accusations and demonstrations. Politicians ranging from
neo-Fascists to former communists denounced Italy's
government for being the first to receive Li, shunned since
the Tiananmen Square massacre.
   ---
   Police in Mauritania reportedly fired on opposition
supporters, killing at least five people, and a dusk-to-dawn
curfew was imposed in two cities. Hours earlier, the African
nation's military ruler claimed victory in a disputed
presidential election. Opponents of Col. Maaouya Ould
Sid'Ahmed Taya charged that Friday's vote was rigged.
   ---
   Belarus transferred its first batch of tactical nuclear
weapons to Russia for destruction as agreed by the new
commonwealth of former Soviet republics, news agencies
reported. The foreign minister of Belarus said the transfer
was the first step toward getting rid of all nuclear weapons.
   ---
   Bush plans to ask Congress for the smallest increase in
NASA's budget since he became president. An outline of the
space agency's budget was released by the White House as part
of a strategy of highlighting popular elements of Bush's
budget. NASA is authorized to spend $14.3 billion in the
current fiscal year.
   ---
   A bipartisan panel recommended the formation of national
education standards and voluntary exams that would measure
students' progress in history, science, English, math and
geography. U.S. public schools would be encouraged to mold
their course work to reach the standards, but schools also
could choose to ignore the guidelines.
   ---
   A U.N. envoy left Libya and said he had "constructive"
talks with Libyan leader Gadhafi concerning a Security
Council resolution imploring Tripoli to respond to
extradition demands regarding bombing suspects. Libyan agents
are wanted in connection with the 1988 downing of a Pan Am
jet and the 1989 bombing of a French plane.
   ---
   Loyalist forces in Zaire rounded up rebel troops and
seized weapons, ammunition and looted goods, military aides
said. The government forces, acting in support of President
Mobutu, made scores of arrests in the capital, Kinshasa. The
crackdown, apparently carried out peacefully, came four days
after a short-lived coup attempt.
   ---
   Philippine President Aquino endorsed former Defense
Secretary Fidel Ramos for president in May's national
election. Saturday's announcement by Aquino, who isn't
seeking another term, went against the advice of her friends,
relatives and church leaders who oppose Ramos.
   ---
   Tamil rebels detonated a bomb under a bus in eastern Sri
Lanka, killing at least 13 people, hospital officials and
witnesses said. At least 31 soldiers were killed in two Tamil
Tiger attacks last week.
   ---
   The Washington Redskins won the National Football League's
Super Bowl, beating the Buffalo Bills 37-24 in Minneapolis.
   ---
   Jim Courier of the U.S. won the Australian Open men's
singles tennis title, defeating Stefan Edberg of Sweden,
three sets to one. On Saturday, Monica Seles of Yugoslavia
beat American Mary Joe Fernandez in the women's singles in
straight sets.
   ---
   Died: Jose Ferrer, 80, stage and screen actor who received
an Academy Award in 1950 for his role as Cyrano de Bergerac,
in Coral Gables, Fla.