LEISURE  ARTS -- Bookshelf:
   The Left's `Reign of Deceit'
   ----
   By Arnold Beichman
Having offered his documentation, he then comes to the
arresting question: Why do seemingly intelligent people so
frequently discard available information in favor of false
information "even though it is often against their interests
to do so?" Why has Marxism held its ascendancy for so long in
democratic societies? Is "the falsification of knowledge
compatible with the survival of a culture founded on
knowledge?" Mr. Revel, author of several books dealing with
the human condition and its discontents, asks:
   "Whence comes this fierce hatred of intellectuals for the
least barbaric societies of human history and this rage to
destroy the only civilizations to date that have emphatically
conferred a dominant role on intelligence?"
   And it is Mr. Revel's answers to this and subsidiary
questions that make his book an invaluable examination of one
of the great paradoxes in the history of Western
civilization: the complaisance of otherwise humane men and
women when confronted by the evil of totalitarianism of the
left.
   In the U.S., academic experts on the Soviet Union wielded
the weapon of falsehood -- whitewash -- with passionate
devotion on behalf of dictatorships that destroyed scores of
millions of human beings. Broad-minded Western intellectuals
sighed their regrets over such, alas, unavoidable matters as
genocide.
   Mr. Revel's melancholy conclusion is that "a concern for
truth is not the principal guide of Man's intellectual
activity, even in the sciences, where methodological
precision makes it extremely hard to get away with fraud." In
fact, he says, "intellectuals do not behave differently from
the majority of human beings in their dealings with ideas."
They look on ideas as "instruments to be placed in the
service not of truth or of a wise decision, but of a
conception of the world that they defend and a cause they
serve, no matter how suicidal it might be."
   Their affinity to ideology, argues Mr. Revel, often leads
intellectuals to resist "refutations of reality or
contradictory arguments" and to reject facts contrary to
their prejudices. Mr. Revel presents the French philosopher
Maurice Merleau-Ponty, who explained away his support of the
1938 Anglo-French appeasement of Hitler by proclaiming: "To
beware of facts had even become a duty for us."
   All too often, writes Mr. Revel, ". . . far from
correcting the defects of our civilization, intellectuals
accentuate them. Far from being the doctors of our ills, they
are more like the symptoms. What is wrong and sickly in
intellectuals reveals what is wrong and sickly in our
civilization as a whole, they magnify its characteristics."
   Because of the sweeping counter-revolution against
socialist and communist orthodoxies, the European left has
been deprived of a once-viable ideology and its programs.
Therefore, says Mr. Revel, the left "has been using the
`fascist' peril to reconstruct the Manichean universe it
needs to feel at ease." In September 1984, the European
Parliament, at the request of its socialist members,
undertook an investigation into the "rise of fascism and
racism in Europe." Since the last fascist dictatorships -- in
Greece, Spain and Portugal -- had disappeared a decade
earlier, it seemed a strange inquiry. And indeed, the final
report showed that any alarm about European fascism was
wildly exaggerated. Concern about the rise of racism,
however, was not misplaced. But even here the force of
falsehood is demonstrable, says Mr. Revel, in that "we tend
to reduce almost all human rights violations to racism, and,
furthermore, to reduce all forms of racism to that practiced
by whites against other races or ethnic groups."
   Mr. Revel's book is disturbing, especially so at a time
when it has been argued that we are at the end of history and
that liberal democracy is the world's future. Will human
nature permit such an end to history? Quite unlikely,
according to the pessimistic Mr. Revel.
   ---
   Mr. Beichman is a research fellow at the Hoover
Institution and author of "Social Myths and
Anti-Americanism," to be published this fall.