International:
   Moscow Hard-Currency Bank Buys Time
   ---
   It Has `Zero' Reserves --
   But Vows to Repay Foreign Debt
   ----
   By Elisabeth Rubinfien
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
With the Soviet Union unraveled, the bank's status is
confused -- but perhaps no less so than the now-independent
Russian economy two weeks after a radical economic reform
program was launched by Boris Yeltsin's government. One day
Vnesheconombank says that no foreign currency withdrawals can
be honored; the next it says that bank checks will be given
in lieu of cash. The hard-currency reserves of the bank,
which is responsible for paying the debt of the former Soviet
Union, "are zero," says Pyotr Aven, head of Russia's foreign
economic relations committee in an interview, but the problem
is only a temporary, "extremely sharp liquidity crisis."
   The uncertainty has left foreigners doubtful about how to
do business in the new Commonwealth of Independent States. In
the old Soviet Union, Vnesheconombank controlled all foreign
currency transactions; foreign companies and individuals paid
for everything from rent to purchases from Soviet industries
by making transfers between accounts at the bank. The
confusion hasn't been eased with the flowering of some 200
commercial banks authorized to deal in hard currency; no one
knows which ones will prove to be stable and which
short-lived.
   Vnesheconombank depositors are racing to withdraw their
hard-currency holdings -- $40 million from the trade center
branch in the past six weeks, says Valery Lokhmachev, deputy
head of hard-currency services there. Rather than transfer
any new funds into Vnesheconombank accounts, foreign
businesses are bringing in cash with couriers. Former Soviet
businesses and government agencies meanwhile are closing
their accounts and asking for payment at banks overseas.
   "I've not become too bothered by this, because purely by
chance we have only $241 in the account," says Richard Jones,
head of the British Petroleum Co. office in Moscow. "I've
told {the home office} absolutely to send no more. We'll live
off the money in the safe."
   The Russian Parliament is discussing what to do about the
bank, which is also in charge of that republic's foreign debt
payments and foreign currency accounts for industry and
international businesses. The proposal favored by the Russian
government would split the bank into several parts: "The
Vnesheconombank of the U.S.S.R." would remain the title of a
new agency responsible for repaying the debt of the former
Soviet Union. Some assets, such as gold, would be assumed by
the Russian Vneshtorg (Foreign Trade) Bank. A new commercial
bank would be formed to handle retail hard-currency accounts.
   Vnesheconombank officials aren't concerned about the
problem in the long run. "The fact that all our clients have
lived here for some time means they understand our problems,"
says Mr. Lokhmachev. "If we have a shortage of bread and
everyone forms a line, then with a rumor of a bank's
insolvency, everyone wants to withdraw their money."
   But the bank's retail problems also spill over into the
international debt arena. Russian officials yesterday met
with Western bankers in Frankfurt, Germany, to explain that
they need a postponement of interest payments on Soviet debt.
   Their talks followed statements Friday by Grigory
Matuykin, Russian central bank president, suggesting that
interest payments on commercial debt would be unilaterally
suspended. Mr. Matuykin's comments were particularly alarming
because they seemed to run counter to a Russian agreement
made Dec. 16 with the banks that allowed only for some
suspension of principal payments.
   But during the meeting yesterday, the Russians assured the
banks that interest and principal on existing loans will be
repaid.
   "We want in principle to explain that there will be some
delays in payments of some interest in the nearest weeks,"
said Mr. Aven, so that foreign lenders will "take no decisive
action."
   Legally, Vnesheconombank is now interrepublican, run by a
managing body from 12 former Soviet republics and responsible
for all former Soviet debt and servicing. Each republic's
representation is in proportion to the amount of debt it will
cover, with Russia holding about 61%.
   But Russia says the bank is short of cash now, primarily
because other republics aren't paying their share. "The
republics promised to transfer money to the Vnesheconombank
to service the debt, but no single republic has until now,"
said Mr. Aven. As a result, Russia has been paying 85% of the
interest payments for at least the past month. Mr. Aven
predicts that the mechanism for collecting hard currency from
other republics as well as from raw materials exporters will
start working more smoothly within a matter of weeks.
   Meanwhile, Russian enterprises have been shifting their
accounts to banks overseas. Even the government agency that
rents apartments to foreign residents now wants rents paid
into a German bank.
   This could make the hard-currency shortage worse yet.
According to regulations, foreign branches of Russian banks
must bring hard currency back to Moscow within three months,
Mr. Aven says, but an agency has still to be created to
monitor the currency flows. The problem of capital flight
first came to light about 15 months ago, and Mr. Aven
estimates about $6 billion has been lost so far.
   The commonwealth's foreign debt totals between $60 billion
and $70 billion, according to Western estimates. The Group of
Seven, an association of the leading industrialized nations,
has said it will review its debt deferral agreement at the
end of March after evaluating the progress of economic reform
programs in the republics. The original deferral agreement
with eight of the republics covered principal payments due by
the end of 1992.
   Mr. Aven says that a stabilization fund of $4 billion to
$5 billion to support ruble convertibility will be needed
before the summer to ensure that Russia's reforms work. The
reforms are threatened by runaway inflation and by
conservative forces that want them to be far more gradual.
   Russian Parliament Chairman Ruslan Khasbulatov launched an
assault Monday on the government's reforms, without directly
attacking Mr. Yeltsin. "The president should distance himself
from the government, which is not only a failure but simply
incompetent," he said, according to the independent Interfax
news agency.
   The head of the Russian Central Bank, Georgi Matyukhin,
has called for a fixed exchange rate of eight to 10 rubles to
the dollar for foreign investors. The rate would replace the
market rate, now about 115 rubles to the dollar, particularly
for foreigners setting up joint ventures here, so that the
contribution of the Russian partner wouldn't be so severely
undervalued. Mr. Matyukhin also urged that obligatory
contributions of hard currency from raw materials exports be
carried out at a higher fixed rate.