Politics  Policy:
   Sen. Adams Faces Increasing Pressure
   To Resign Amid Harassment Charges
   ----
   By Jeffrey H. Birnbaum and Eugene Carlson
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
In the nation's capital, however, politicians and women's
organizations have been mostly silent. The women's groups
have long backed him politically because of his voting
record, and Democratic politicians privately question whether
his resignation might add more confusion to an already
volatile race for his seat. Sen. Adams has said he intends to
stay.
   The Seattle Times story carried the accusations of eight
women who weren't identified by name, but most of whom are
known in the state's political community. To add to their
credibility, most signed affidavits saying they would
disclose their identities if their stories were challenged in
court. They accused the senator of misdeeds ranging from rape
to using drugs to make them more compliant with his sexual
advances.
   In the face of these charges, even some of the senator's
supporters have balked. Among those who have called for his
resignation are Judith Lonnquist, a Seattle attorney who is a
long-time Adams supporter and a member of his finance
committee.
   "I think he can no longer serve with distinction," Ms.
Lonnquist said in an interview yesterday. "It reflects very
severely on his character, his credibility and his
integrity."
   Washington state newspapers have begun to editorialize
against Sen. Adams. The Tacoma newspaper said, "The senator
has offered only evasions . . . and he depicted himself as a
victim of a vague conspiracy. This won't do." On Tuesday, the
Bellevue Journal American called on Sen. Adams to resign,
while the Spokane Spokesman-Review said, "If Adams really
wants to serve women and all Washingtonians, a resignation
would be in order."
   Karen Marchioro, head of the state Democratic party, said
that state party leaders plan to discuss Sen. Adams's future
at a meeting this weekend in Ellensburg. "There are people on
both sides of this issue," she said. "Obviously, there's a
lot of concern."
   In Washington, D.C., however, women's organizations are
torn about what to say about the accusations. Sen. Adams has
long been a defender of women's rights and women's
legislation. "There is a certain bittersweet feeling in the
women's community," said Harriett Woods, president of the
National Women's Political Caucus.
   Whether the senator should resign "is an issue that has to
be addressed by his constituents and his state party," she
asserted. But she added, "From the viewpoint of exploiting
women from a power position, very serious questions have been
raised and left hanging, and that's very disturbing."
   The National Organization for Women is still considering
what to do. A NOW spokeswoman said, "This issue is under
advisement, and our decision-making process has not reached a
conclusion."
   Republican opponents of Mr. Adams have been the most
outspoken against him. Rep. Rod Chandler (R., Wash.), who was
challenging Sen. Adams for his Senate seat, has called for
him to resign. But most Democratic officials have been
reluctant to do the same, and there doesn't appear to be any
movement among his colleagues in the Senate to urge him to
leave. Democrats note that if Mr. Adams were to resign more
than six months before the November elections, a special
election would have to be held within 90 days, adding to the
confusion that already surrounds the election picture.