International:
   Bush Lifts Sanctions Against China
   In Expectation of Curb on Missile Sales
   ----
   By Gerald F. Seib
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
In return for the U.S. action, U.S. officials said, they
expect China to announce that it will begin adhering to
international guidelines limiting the export of ballistic
missile technology.
   The decision to lift sanctions sparked an immediate
controversy. Congressional Democrats complained that the
administration took its step despite intelligence information
indicating China continues to negotiate missile sales to the
Middle East. Sen. Joseph Biden (D., Del.) took the unusual
step of asking Senate Majority Leader George Mitchell to
schedule a closed-door briefing for the Senate so that all
lawmakers could be briefed on the intelligence information.
Aides said over the weekend that Sen. Mitchell plans to
discuss the request with Senate Republican leader Robert Dole
early this week before making a decision.
   The controversy over missile technology also could
exacerbate the debate about Bush administration policy toward
Beijing on another front. The Senate is scheduled tomorrow to
take up the final version of a bill that would demand that
China improve its performance on human rights, trade freedom
and arms control in order to continue receiving most favored
nation trade status. That's the treatment the U.S. affords
trading partners who are in good standing.
   The House already has passed the final version of the
bill, which President Bush opposes. The Senate seems likely
to pass the bill as well, but it isn't clear the measure will
attract enough votes to override an expected presidential
veto. A group of senators from both parties has worked with
the administration to propose an alternative approach, in
which Congress wouldn't formally impose conditions on China's
trade status but President Bush instead would agree
informally to seek improvements in China's behavior.
   Mr. Bush must announce by early June whether he intends to
grant China most favored trade status for another year. He is
virtually certain to try to maintain China's trade position.
   One persistent problem in U.S.-Chinese relations has been
Beijing's refusal to sign the Missile Technology Control
Regime, an international agreement controlling longrange
missile technology. The problem reached a head in June, when
U.S. officials slapped on trade sanctions largely because of
alarm over China's reported shipments of missiles to Iran and
indications Beijing was seriously negotiating similar sales
to Syria.
   The administration's announcement Friday that trade
sanctions are being lifted didn't make clear whether China
formally will accept the full missile-control agreement. The
State Department said in a written announcement only that
Chinese Foreign Minister Qian Qichen sent the U.S. a letter
Feb. 1 confirming earlier verbal promises to abide by the
international "guidelines and parameters."
   This "written commitment" by China "is an important step
forward in securing Chinese support for ballistic missile
nonproliferation," the statement said.