LEISURE  ARTS -- On Sports:
   Indoor Links
   ----
   By Frederick C. Klein
Some of the traditional aspects of the game -- sky,
sunshine, grass and breezes, to name four -- are lacking, but
there are compensations: You never get a bad lie and all
putts are flat and no longer than about 20 feet. Many will
think that is a trade worth making.
   The spot to which I refer is called the Indoor Golf and
Country Club, operated by New York Health  Racquet Club. One
of a handful of its sort in Gotham and environs, it features
five golf simulators -- teeing areas in front of screens on
which the teeview layouts of golf holes are projected.
   You smack the ball into the screen and a white dot takes
over, soaring or dribbling down the expanse ahead and landing
where it may -- in fairway, rough or water (a splash,
complete with ripples, is simulated). The length of your shot
appears on the screen in more detail than you might like
(123.4 yards, say), whereupon the picture zooms ahead to the
view from your second shot and tells you how far you have
left.
   You continue smacking the ball until you reach the
"green," whereupon a diagram shows you where to place your
ball relative to the hole. You repair, putter in hand, to the
putting area before you, and putt out. You enter your score
in the computer keyboard at hand, and the picture of the next
hole appears.
   The place also contains the country-club accouterments
that have nothing to do with the country -- bar, restaurant
and pool tables -- as well as a plastic-grass practice green,
surrounded by lots of plastic plants.
   The boss is Craig Pepin-Donat, a 31-year-old Arizona
native. He is the president of HRC, which has six health
clubs in Manhattan, including the one that occupies the five
floors beneath us at 3 New York Plaza, along with two tennis
clubs.
   "Our golf facilities are meant to supplement outdoor
golf," he explained, "but some members say they like this
better. You can play here any time, and in just an hour or
so, not the four or five hours regular golf takes. For a busy
person, you can't beat that."
   If the whole idea sounds Japanese, it's no accident,
because the fellow whose company made the gear that made the
place possible got the idea in Japan. He's Don Curchod, an
Australian-born engineer and president of Ingolf Inc. of
Sunnyvale, Calif. He visited Japan some time ago to sell
computerized auto wheel-alignment equipment and discovered
that there were millions of devoted golfers in that land-poor
land who never got further than a driving range. He returned
to California determined to ease their plight and that of
others, and to profit therefrom.
   Other golf simulators have been on the market for about 20
years, but the Ingolf folks assert that theirs is better. One
reason, they say, is that their computer-devised hole
depictions are more life-like than the collection of still
photos of earlier models. Another is that, through the use of
light reflectors set into the balls they furnish, their units
measure ball spin and spin velocity in addition to the
forward velocity and shot direction that's recorded when ball
strikes screen. Thus, a more accurate shot picture emerges.
   "We had Seve Ballesteros try our machine," Curchod said.
"We let him play the 18th hole at Pebble Beach. He pushed his
drive behind a tree, and said he'd done the same thing the
last time he played the course."
   After several years of development, during which Curchod
hit enough balls into screens to reduce his handicap to 12
from 22, Ingolf put its simulators on the market last year.
It says it has sold about 200 units at a base price of
$50,000 each, about half in this country and most of the rest
in Japan. In recent months it's widened its course offerings
from a single reel of 18 holes from various notable layouts
to fullcourse tapes of Pebble Beach and Pinehurst No. 2.
Others (Augusta National, Kiawah Island's Ocean Course, The
Belfry in England) are in the works.
   Domestic customers include sports bars, bowling alleys, a
hotel and at least one corporate rec room. In Sunnyvale,
Ingolf just opened a 12-unit "golf plaza" it calls state of
the art. It contains a contoured, 7,000-square-foot
artificial putting surface and several real sand traps. I
think they'd better be careful about that real stuff.
   The New York club is grand enough, though, and Pepin-Donat
was nice enough to offer to play a few holes with me. We
seemed well matched; I'd played exactly 27 holes in the
previous 22 years, while he said he played only occasionally,
and the muscles under his shirt bespoke a preference for
weightier exercise.
   We began on a 378-yard par four with a small lake in
front, in real life the 8th at Magnolia Country Club in
Millen, Ga. I drove first and found the water (splash). He
drove next and did the same (splash). I hit a three-wood and
cleared the thing. He hit three more shots into the water
(splash, splash, splash) before clearing it. I hit a
three-wood to the green's fringe (you'll note that makes
three wood shots on a 378-yard hole). He topped a couple more
before reaching the green, in 11. I chipped on, two-putted
for a seven, and conceded his putt for a 12.
   "Realistic enough?" he asked. I nodded. So did he. We quit
right there.