If This Fish Story
   Reads a Bit Fishy,
   We've Spoiled It
   ---
   Surveys by Consumers Union
   Find Many Fish Are Foul;
   Industry Challenges Data
   ----
   By Bruce Ingersoll
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The group, which tested fish sold in the metropolitan New
York and Chicago areas, found that almost 30% of the samples
were spoiled and another 9% were on the verge of decaying. It
also found many fish tainted with harmful chemicals and other
pollutants, and said that about one-third of the fish were
misbranded, either deliberately or out of ignorance.
   The six-month investigation raises troubling questions
about product wholesomeness and healthfulness at a time when
Americans are eating more fish -- 15.5 pounds a year, on
average -- than ever. In particular, Consumers Union said it
found widespread disregard for the fish industry's
quality-control maxim -- "keep it cold, keep it clean, keep
it moving" -- at various stages in the distribution chain,
from the fishing boat to the supermarket.
   The group defined as spoiled any fish having bacteria
counts exceeding 10 million colonies per gram. Nearly 25% of
the samples were off the chart in a test that had an upper
limit of 27 million colonies per gram.
   "Time and temperature are the enemies of freshness and
flavor," says the report. "Most fish have a shelf-life of
seven to 12 days at best once they are out of water. But the
fish that reaches your dinner table may have been out as long
as 15 days."
   The effects of inadequate refrigeration and slow handling
can only be masked for so long. "In Chicago, for example, the
tuna sold in several supermarkets was greenish brown and
dull, suggesting the fish had been sitting around for several
days," Consumers Union said.
   The $3.5 billion fish industry is dreading the consumer
impact of the report. The National Fisheries Institute, a
trade group representing 4,100 seafood producers, processors,
distributors and brokers, assails the Consumer Union findings
as "exaggerated" and flawed by "poor methodology."
   "We feel strongly that the nation's supply of seafood is
inherently safe and wholesome," asserts Lee Weddig, executive
vice president of the group. "It's invalid to infer that a
high percentage of the fish . . . is spoiled, when such a
sweeping conclusion is based on geographically and
numerically limited sample and inappropriate analytical
methods."
   Consumers Union took a total of 113 samples from two
metropolitan areas. That doesn't make a representative
sampling of fish and shellfish nationwide, says Mr. Weddig.
   He also argues that the bacteria test used by Consumers
Union is imprecise and of limited value as an indicator of
product quality. Not all bacteria counted by the test
actually cause spoilage, he notes. In addition, fish with the
identical bacteria counts vary in quality.
   In the Consumers Union survey, nearly half of the fish
samples tested -- 44% -- were somewhat contaminated with
fecal coliform bacteria from human or animal wastes, with
counts exceeding 10 per gram. Fully 22% of the samples had
counts greater than 100 per gram, and 15% had counts greater
than 500. Most of the latter came from New York area stores.
   The Interstate Shellfish Sanitation Conference, which
oversees state regulation of fisheries and seafood
processing, draws the line at three fecal bacteria per gram.
Some fecal bacteria are disease-causing organisms; for
instance, certain E. coli strains produce severe diarrhea.
   A lot of the fish tested had been tainted by potentially
harmful chemicals and other pollutants that foul U.S. waters,
the Consumers Union report says. Polychlorinated biphenyls,
or PCBs, which have been found to cause cancer in laboratory
animals, were detected in 43% of the salmon tested, 25% of
the swordfish and 50% of the lake whitefish. But Mr. Weddig
points out that only a few samples barely exceeded the Food
and Drug Administration limit of two parts per million.
   Traces of mercury, which in high concentrations can harm
the nervous system, were found in 90% of the swordfish
tested. The average level was 1.14 parts per million, a shade
above the FDA limit of one part per million, according to the
report. Some samples of catfish and whitefish contained
residues of DDT and other pesticides. A number of clam
samples had relatively high levels of lead.
   Illustrating its findings that fish often are inaccurately
identified, the report says it caught several fishmongers
trying to cash in on red snapper's appeal. A relatively
scarce species, red snapper brings $8 to $14 a pound, while
other snappers bring just $3 to $4 a pound. The result:
inexpensive fish frequently are passed off as the coveted red
snapper.
   Consumers Union also dubs one ruse the "salmon
shenanigans." Last spring, after the U.S. imposed a
prohibitive tariff on salmon imports from Norway, retailers
began selling salmon from Canada, Chile and Maine as the
popular "Norwegian salmon."
   Some fishmongers also have a penchant for marketing frozen
fish as fresh while letting it thaw in the display cases, the
group reports.