Avon's Chairman Freezes His Salary,
   Ties His Income to Stock Performance
   ----
   By Jeffrey A. Trachtenberg
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Mr. Preston also noted that he will recommend to the board
an "ongoing share repurchase plan." He declined to state how
many shares Avon intends to repurchase. He said that in times
of economic uncertainty, Avon was obligated to maintain
conservative equity levels.
   In an interview, Mr. Preston said he decided last summer
to review his salary and bonus package with the New York
office of Strategic Compensation Associates, a firm that
specializes in executive compensation. At the time, Mr.
Preston was earning $610,000 annually and a 65% bonus tied to
Avon's net income and cash flow.
   What concerned him, said Mr. Preston, was that within five
years, he expected to be earning as much as $1.7 million
annually, an amount he considered excessive. Eventually,
Strategic Compensation Associates recommended that his salary
be frozen and his bonus be reduced to 50% for the next five
years. The bonus, which is capped, can be higher than 50% if
Avon exceeds its plan in a given year.
   In turn, Mr. Preston has received the right to purchase
options for 50,000 Avon shares at about $40.25 a share. "What
this does is directly tie my income to the performance of
Avon's shares," said Mr. Preston. "If Avon does better, and I
believe it will, I'll do better. But if Avon doesn't do well,
neither will I." Mr. Preston will be vested in the stock
option plan at approximately 20% a year.
   Mr. Preston said that Avon hasn't "received a single
complaint" about his compensation. He also said Avon met
several times with United Shareholders Association, a
shareholder advocacy group, but that his compensation package
wasn't at issue.
   "I'm not adverse to earning more money, but I felt I was
already well-compensated," said Mr. Preston. He added that
"all of my net worth" is effectively invested in Avon shares.
He noted, however, that he recently sold 12% of his holdings
to meet tax-related obligations.
   One Avon analyst, who asked not to be identified, said, "I
think it's somewhat laudatory. One sign that the company is
being run for shareholders is when management has a stake. It
gives investors confidence."
   In reviewing Avon's 1991 performance, Mr. Preston noted
that there were some disappointments, particularly with its
Giorgio Beverly Hills fragrance division. Operating profits
for the year dropped by $20 million to $13 million. "I don't
see this business going into the red this year," said Mr.
Preston, defending the division's performance. "We're
launching a new fragrance in the spring of 1993, and we are
optimistic overall."
   Noting that more than 60% of Avon's earnings and revenue
are generated outside the U.S., Mr. Preston said Avon is
pleased with strong results in such countries as Mexico,
Germany and the Philippines. Countries that produced
disappointing results included Brazil, where the economy
suffered last year; Japan, where Avon tried and failed to
sell its business; and France, where Avon's expense ratio is
the highest in the company.