Morgan Stanley's No. 3 Post
   Goes to Ex-Bond Trader Mack
   ----
   By Michael Siconolfi and William Power
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
Mr. Mack has long been known at Morgan Stanley as a tough
cost-cutter. But Morgan Stanley stressed that the management
shift is being made only to give it a better grip on its
sprawling international operations in the 1990s, as more and
more transactions require world-wide coordination. "The
environment is getting more complex, and we need to get ready
for faster response times," Chairman Richard B. Fisher said.
   The ascent of Mr. Mack also reflects how important trading
has become to Morgan Stanley, which throughout the 1980s was
known as a pre-eminent mergers adviser. With the decline in
corporate takeovers, the firm's revenue from trading has
eclipsed that from investment banking for two straight years.
The trading boom pushed Morgan Stanley's profit to a record
$475.1 million in 1991.
   Partly because of that boom, Mr. Mack is already one of
Morgan Stanley's bestpaid executives. His combined 1991
salary and bonus, which will be disclosed later this month,
is expected to double to about $4 million from $2.1 million
in 1990, people familiar with the firm said. Senior officers
are paid based on a formula tied to the firm's return on
equity, which jumped to 21% last year, one of the best on
Wall Street. Mr. Mack yesterday declined to discuss his pay.
   Mr. Mack is widely credited on Wall Street with building
Morgan Stanley's bond group into a powerful force in the
securities business. Under his helm, the firm's bond revenue
has jumped fivefold, and its bond group's head count has
jumped 75% to 625.
   "In the early 1980s, people didn't take them seriously in
fixed-income, but John proved them wrong," said Eric
Gleacher, Morgan Stanley's former mergers chief, who now runs
his own firm. As for Mr. Mack's style, Mr. Gleacher said: "He
calls 'em real straight."
   Mr. Mack's promotion puts him in line to run Morgan
Stanley someday. But both Mr. Fisher and President Robert F.
Greenhill, both 55, said they have no plans to retire.
"There's no question" that Mr. Mack will be "one of the
candidates" to run the firm in several years, Mr. Greenhill
said.
   Around Morgan Stanley, Mr. Mack's forceful management
style and key role in past cost-cutting drives have struck
fear in some employees, who refer to Mr. Mack as "Mack the
Knife."
   But Mr. Mack, a burly North Carolinian, said he considers
himself more of a builder than simply a cost-cutter. In his
new role, "downsizing has never occurred to me," Mr. Mack
said in an interview. "I was thinking more growth." He said
the new operating committee will meet at least weekly.
   Yesterday, Morgan Stanley officials said the firm's work
force of nearly 7,100 will likely rise by the end of the
year, rather than shrink, as the firm continues to expand
internationally. Morgan, for example, is considering an
office in Spain.
   Mr. Mack was succeeded as head of fixed income by Peter
Karches, 40. Besides Mr. Mack, the operating committee will
include the heads of equity; fixed income; investment
banking; asset management; finance, administration and
operations; as well as the co-heads of the London office and
the head of the Tokyo office. Among other management shifts,
Stephen Waters, 45, Morgan Stanley's co-head of mergers, will
move to London to head European investment banking.