Land Mines for Democrats
   ----
   By Albert R. Hunt
Moreover, the Democrats have a patron saint to guide them
politically: Harris Wofford, the ivory-tower academician, who
staged a remarkable 55-point turnaround in three months to
upset former Attorney General Richard Thornburgh and capture
a Pennsylvania Senate seat eight weeks ago. The Wofford
roadmap: Focus almost exclusively on the economy, health care
and related concerns of middle-class voters.
   Finally, many smart Democrats believe the current
conditions -- domestic frustration and diminishing interest
in foreign affairs -- work to their advantage. "Every
election has a natural contour that it wants to follow," says
James Carville, the Democratic strategist who orchestrated
Mr. Wofford's stunning upset. "This time the groove the
voters want the election to fall in is good for us."
   All of that is true. Yet the Democratic presidential
hopefuls still face some deadly land mines in the months
ahead that may make it very hard for them to follow that
contour. These include:
   -- The character test. None of these candidates, who among
them have won dozens of elections, fully appreciate that they
are now playing in a much tougher league. Their entire
backgrounds, plus every word, every nuance and every
relationship, will be subject to scrutiny.
   There are two general ways a candidate can self-destruct:
through a vivid character flaw, like Gary Hart in 1987, or
via a disqualifying gaffe, such as George Romney's 1967
remark that he had been "brainwashed" on Vietnam. ("A simple
rinse" would have been sufficient, Eugene McCarthy remarked.)
   The danger is greater for these relatively unknown figures
precisely because voters know so little about them. A Ronald
Reagan in 1980, perhaps even a Mario Cuomo this time, had
more firmly formed perceptions in the public mind to serve as
a buffer against any new embarrassments.
   It's very difficult to gauge character vulnerability, but
little if anything about politicians' backgrounds is off
limits now; if St. Francis of Assisi were a political
candidate today, he'd doubtless be subject to "shocking"
rumors about his past.
   Meanwhile, there are certain to be plenty of gaffes, even
by smart and seasoned politicians. "It's very easy to think
out loud and look foolish," notes Greg Schneiders, a
Democratic pollster and former top aide to President Jimmy
Carter. "You also can say something that sounds perfectly
reasonable without knowing you've used an unacceptable code
word."
   A variation happened a few months ago to one of the top
contenders, Sen. Bob Kerrey of Nebraska, when he told a
private joke that was picked up by microphones. The joke
offended some lesbian groups, and Sen. Kerrey spent the
better part of a week apologizing, and over-apologizing, for
it. In February, such an incident would be lethal.
   When a candidate makes a gaffe, the first tough decision
is whether to backtrack; one key factor is whether the gaffe
reinforces an existing negative perception. The most
important thing, though, is to deal with the issue quickly --
preferably within the same news cycle -- and then move onto
something else. The model for how to handle such problems
came after the first presidential debate in 1988, in which
George Bush suggested that doctors who perform abortions
might be subject to criminal penalties. Within minutes after
the debate, Bush campaign chairman James Baker had completely
reversed his candidate's position.
   -- Social issues. The Wofford lesson to candidates is to
stay focused on economicrelated issues and not to get
sidetracked. Under the pressures of a lengthy campaign,
though, a lot of interest groups will try to make that an
impossible task. The gay lobby, for one, will push such
measures as spousal benefits for gays; that won't much appeal
to the broad working class.
   Even issues that have merit can be politically dangerous.
For instance, a strong case can be made for distributing
condoms to high-school students in certain areas to reduce
the number of teen-age pregnancies and the spread of AIDS.
But this would alienate those voters who already worry that
Democrats are too soft on some cherished virtues and values.
   On crime, the Democrats needn't abandon a commitment to
justice and civil liberties in order to express outrage over
criminals being allowed to walk the streets too easily, or to
express empathy with their victims. In 1968, nobody was
tougher on crime than Robert F. Kennedy -- and few could
doubt his liberal credentials.
   Abortion is a dicier question. As the courts chip away at
abortion rights, it's clear the issue has swung from one that
marginally helped pro-life presidential candidates --
certainly Ronald Reagan in 1980, and probably George Bush in
1988 -- to one that will marginally aid a pro-choice
candidate in 1992. But the Democrats will be tempted to
overdo it. "There's no question that it's better politically
today to be pro-choice," says Mr. Carville, now an adviser to
candidate Bill Clinton. "But it's not a very good reason to
want to be president."
   Pollster Schneiders warns that while most Americans "are
tolerant of people who want to have abortions or alternate
life styles, they personally don't favor many of those
decisions. When you step over the line to seemingly advocate
abortion or homosexuality or promiscuity, you're out of the
mainstream."
   -- Foreign policy. With communism dead, Democrats feel
freed from the foreign-policy albatross that has plagued them
since the Vietnam War. Certainly, foreign policy is a low
priority for the public; in a recent Wall Street Journal/NBC
News poll, only 12% of voters said national security should
be the president's most important priority.
   But the world is full of dangers that easily could erupt
over the next 10 months. The isolated North Korean regime
could create trouble out of desperation; an increasingly
assertive Iran could stage an incident to influence yet
another presidential campaign; terrorism remains a real fear.
Of course, there's always the looming presence of Saddam
Hussein. Add to all that the possibility of problems,
including ones with nuclear potential, in the loosely
stitched-together confederation of former Soviet republics.
   When and if such incidents occur, Democrats have to
respond and sound knowledgeable. Any repeat of the
hand-wringing over the 1983 invasion of Grenada would be
disastrous. "A person running for president has to sound like
he knows what he's talking about on foreign policy; that's
essential," notes Ed Rollins, who ran Ronald Reagan's 1984
re-election campaign.
   The Democrats don't have to convince voters they're better
than George Bush in this area -- that's probably an
impossible task. But they do have to convince voters they're
trustworthy and tough enough to be basically competent in
foreign policy. Only then can the campaign be fought on the
preferred terrain of domestic and economic issues.
   There will certainly be plenty of other tests for the
Democratic candidates during this campaign. Some are full of
political danger: The specter of Jesse Jackson and his
attendant demands still worries party leaders. Others,
though, are full of opportunity. For the first time in a
generation, the Supreme Court is an issue that helps
Democrats, as voters plainly are worried about the high court
moving too far to the right. In the friendly environs of
economics and health care, Democrats must convince voters not
only that the current policies are bad but that their
solutions are better.
   That's the burden of a challenging party -- first to
convince people that change is necessary, and then to
convince them it has the solution. "The easiest case we have
is the case against Bush," says Mr. Carville. "The tougher
job is to make the case for ourselves."
   ---
   Mr. Hunt is the Journal's Washington bureau chief.