Marketing  Media:
   PepsiCo Agrees
   To Distribute Line
   Of Bottled Water
   ----
   By Laurie M. Grossman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The move marks Pepsi's third step in recent months to
break into faster-growing segments of the beverage industry.
With growth in soft-drink sales expected to slow to about 2%
a year for the remainder of the decade, beverage makers are
searching for new hits. Late last year, Pepsi teamed with
Thomas J. Lipton Co. in a joint venture to develop new tea
drinks, and reached an agreement to distribute Ocean Spray
juice drinks.
   Although the wholesale market for bottled water is about
$2.7 billion a year compared with $29 billion for soft
drinks, the former category is expected to grow between 5%
and 7% a year in the 1990s, said Michael Bellas, president of
Beverage Marketing Corp. Soft drinks, he said, sell best
among individuals from 14 to 21 years old, while bottled
water sells well among older and more affluent customers.
   Pepsi, with its broad distribution system, could well
shake up the water market, according to industry observers.
About 450 companies market water in the U.S., mainly on a
regional basis, of which 40 to 50 would be sizable
competitors for Pepsi, Mr. Bellas said. Only a few sell their
brands nationwide. The biggest player in small noncarbonated
water packages is Evian, owned by the BSN Groupe in Paris,
which controls at least 20% of retail noncarbonated water
sales, Mr. Bellas said.
   Source Perrier S.A., which markets many regional and
carbonated brands, accounts for nearly a quarter of the total
water business, including retail, home, and commercial
accounts.
   Pepsi plans to sell 1.5-liter bottles of Avalon for $1.10
each; that's at the low end of prices for foreign bottled
water, which often costs about $1.50, and in line with sales
of water bottled in the U.S. Prices in the bottled-water
market dipped last year as white-collar consumers felt the
effects of the recession.
   Water also allows Pepsi to tap consumers eager for new,
clear drinks with a healthful appeal. Such drinks, often
marketed as "new age" sodas, are increasing sales at 4% to 6%
a year. Pepsi has been testing its own flavored carbonated
water -- H2Oh -- for three years, but has no current plans to
expand its distribution. The company is also developing a
colorless cola. With regard to future new-age product
offerings, a Pepsi spokeswoman said, "There is a lot more to
come."