Sex Education Can Sometimes Be Extremely Explicit
   ----
   By Sonia L. Nazario
"If we are teaching about genitals, it's appropriate for
students to see this," says Mr. Selverstone, whose classes
couldn't be more opposite those of Sex Respect and other
abstinence-only curricula. He adds: "Vows of abstinence break
more frequently than contraceptives."
   While some school districts are content with the
abstinence approach, many others are adopting ever-more
explicit sex-education courses. Some schools teach
"outercourse," methods of having sex with a partner without
danger of disease or pregnancy. Pilot courses in Denver and
San Diego funded by the Centers for Disease Control take
students on "condom hunts" to drug stores. New York schools
hand out condoms; Falmouth, Mass., puts condom vending
machines in high schools.
   Advocates say past sex education courses have failed to
curb teen sexuality or significantly boost contraceptive use
because they were too little, too late. Although most schools
now have sex education, the classes are generally limited to
high-school anatomy primers -- at an age when more than half
the adolescents have already had sex. Students average only
38.7 hours of sex education by their high-school graduation,
says the Alan Guttmacher Institute, a research group. Only
10% get "comprehensive" sex education; and while most courses
discuss abstinence, less than one in 10 AIDS classes shows
how to use or obtain a condom, the Sex Information and
Education Council of the U.S. says.
   The council, together with representatives of the American
Medical Association, the National Education Association and
14 other major groups, last October issued sweeping
sex-education guidelines. They advocate that sex education
begin in kindergarten and continue through graduation -- an
approach schools in such cities as Alexandria, Va., and
Irvington, N.J., already have adopted. The guidelines include
topics such as parenthood, sexual abuse and abstinence, but
they also broach subjects seldom taught in public schools:
   -- Teaching teens they can enjoy sexual pleasure without
intercourse.
   -- Teaching that sexual fantasies involving forbidden
things are common.
   -- Teaching early in elementary school exactly how
intercourse takes place.
   -- Teaching that homosexual love relationships can be as
fulfilling as heterosexual relationships.
   Not surprisingly, such approaches engender opposition.
Last November, parents in Plano, Texas, forced the school
district to abandon a 10-step lesson in biology class on how
to use a condom. But last month, 700 parents and students
ventured out on a rainy Texas night to attend a board meeting
where 177 stood in line to speak. "What if one child gets
AIDS because he doesn't know how to use a condom?" one board
member asked. The board reinstated the lesson but without a
lesson in which a condom was unrolled over a test tube.
   "The only thing kids need to know is that there is no such
thing as safe sex," fumes Marilyn Statler, a Plano parent who
will ask that her daughter sit in the library when the
lessons are given.
   (See related letter: "Letters to the Editor: It's Wrong to
Teach Fear of Sex" -- WSJ March 20, 1992)
   920220-0005