California's Democrats Dare to Be Timid
   ----
   By Tim W. Ferguson
For that reason, plus the continuing travail of President
Bush, the mood was relatively upbeat and unabashed for a
party unit that had been particularly forlorn in the Reagan
era. Long a Republican bastion, Orange County for much of the
1980s elected not a single Democrat to Congress or the state
Llegislature, despite having a rather urban population base
of nearly two million. It also twice cost Democrats the
governorship in tight elections during the past decade. Even
part-time city and county officeholders (in nonpartisan
posts) were renouncing their Democratic registration in order
to get ahead politically, financially or socially. A few
years ago the party's county offices consisted of an
answering machine.
   If polling data on 1992's statewide races have the
faithful here and elsewhere smiling for a change, none of the
candidates for the U.S. Senate seats seemed to want to damp
spirits with some of Mr. Tsongas's "no Santa Claus"
speechifying. Mostly they offered the ritual pounding of GOP
greed and insensitivity.
   One guy in a back corner of the convention meeting room,
however, doubted the races were completely in the bag. He was
Richard O' Neill, a former state and county party chairman
and south county landholder whose acreage is second only to
the huge Irvine Co.
   Asked whether he had a winning ticket this fall, he
replied, "Not if both of the women are on it." He was
referring to Dianne Feinstein, long the favorite to grab the
remainder of Mr. Wilson's unexpired Senate term, and Rep.
Barbara Boxer of Marin County, whose energetic campaign has
made her a top contender for the six-year seat. After the
pair had spoken to the parley, Mr. O'Neill offered that they
"sound like two Jewish mothers" (which they are).
   Separately, either stood to win, he suggested, but
together they had the potential to drag each other down. He
noted that both rely on similar fund-raising bases: liberal,
feminist, San Franciscan. One difference is in height:
"Little Barbara Boxer," as Mr. O'Neill called her, is a foot
shorter. She also is more ideological. Her fervor has caused
her to cross swords with the more managerial and modulated
Ms. Feinstein over the years. Ms. Boxer aided Ms. Feinstein's
primary opponent in the 1990 gubernatorial race.
   The committed call the tune at functions such as last
weekend's, and current Orange County chairman Howard Adler
(another old party hand and a business partner of Mr.
O'Neill's) hastened in an interview to say the electorate in
the June 2 primary was more likely to buy a Tsongaslike
challenge to party orthodoxy than were those in the hall. Mr.
Tsongas's California coordinator, Demetrios Boutris, a
Greek-born young lawyer at White  Case of New York,
explained at his man's booth that the Tsongas campaign hasn't
lined up local officials, unlike the Bill Clinton backers.
   For now, the main jockeying has been over the Senate
seats. Ms. Boxer, who was easily the crowd favorite here, is
up against a familiar if rather worn statewide figure, Lt.
Gov. Leo McCarthy, and a fellow congressman, Mel Levine from
West Los Angeles. Ms. Feinstein, the former San Francisco
mayor who lost to Pete Wilson for governor in 1990, faces
state controller Gray Davis. Messrs. Levine and Davis both
sport big warchests, which should help shorten the odds
against them.
   It is hard to distinguish among the slants these hopefuls
take. All are socially to the left, especially on abortion
and anything smacking of sexual bias. (Mr. McCarthy, trying
to outbid Ms. Boxer for the Anita Hill vote, pledged to
battle within the Senate "three little pigs -- named Specter,
Hatch and Simpson.") On the economy, paeans to industrial
investment were in vogue, but no one said (a la Tsongas) that
this would come at the expense of current consumption by the
non-rich.
   Rep. Levine does countenance a limited capital-gains tax
cut, and further separates himself from Rep. Boxer by taking
a tougher foreign-policy stand, especially where it coincides
with Israeli interests. She, meanwhile, is a Pentagon critic
still talking about the cost of military toilet seats.
   There was little mention of the benefits of free trade,
even with Mexico, but Gray Davis sounded a few bites of
incentivist economics before reminding the assembled of his
history of suing corporations and noting his support from
public-employee unions.
   Were this a year like the last dozen, these pronouncements
would be unlikely to win the California electorate. But this
is a time of particular disarray for Republicans in the
Golden State. If the current favorites in the GOP races --
appointed incumbent John Seymour and Rep. Tom Campbell, both
middle-roaders -- survive the divisive primary, their
presence on a ticket headed by George Bush may leave
conservatives listless enough to permit a Democratic walk.
   Facing a weakened foe, organized California Democrats may
decide they'd prefer to fight from familiar ground. On the
basis of convention oratory, that's where they appear right
now, as the state waits to see whether Mr. Tsongas, or even
the wild-card former governor, Jerry Brown, can trigger an
earthquake en route to the primary on June 2.
   ---
   Mr. Ferguson is a Los Angeles-based member of the
Journal's editorial board.