Tisch Outlines Buy-Out Bid
   To Rescue Troubled Macy
   ---
   Proposal by CBS Chairman
   Is One of Several Options
   Under Study by Retailer
   ----
   By Jeffrey A. Trachtenberg and George Anders
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
Executives familiar with Macy's deliberations say talks
are extremely fluid, with proposals and negotiating positions
being modified almost hourly. A resolution isn't expected to
be reached until at least today, and perhaps not until next
week.
   The 68-year-old Mr. Tisch is best known as the chairman of
CBS Inc. He also oversees a wide range of investments in
tobacco, insurance and shipping through his family controlled
Loews Corp. Mr. Tisch and his four sons have built a
reputation during the past 15 years as turnaround investors
-- buying troubled properties at what they hope will later
prove to be bargain prices.
   Analysts and lending sources said that Macy's financial
difficulties are leading to increased tension between the
retailer and its 40-bank lending group. The debate between
Macy and its banks centers on whether the company will be
able to draw afresh on its $587.7 million revolving credit
facility -- an important source of credit for the retailer.
Macy hopes that it will be able to resume drawing on the
facility as soon as tomorrow, but that option is still being
negotiated.
   Macy's continuing difficulties have touched off widely
differing responses among its five largest shareholders -- of
whom Mr. Tisch is one, with a 15.6% stake. At issue is
whether a recapitalization can succeed, or whether Macy will
join the long list of indebted retailers that have been
forced to file for Chapter 11 bankruptcy-law protection from
creditors.
   Mr. Tisch wasn't available for comment yesterday.
Executives who work closely with Macy said he is one of two
or three Macy shareholders that have expressed interest in
buying control of the retailer.
   These executives added that Hong Kong investor and movie
producer, Sir Run Run Shaw, with a 10.3% interest, also has
expressed interest in taking a much bigger stake in Macy.
Earlier this week, aides to Sir Run Run were canvassing
leveraged buy-out groups, looking for additional capital that
could be used for a Macy infusion.
   The largest Macy shareholder, General Electric Co., with a
17% stake, declined to comment on its intentions about its
Macy holding.
   Mr. Tisch's proposal, according to people familiar with
it, calls for major concessions by the company's other
shareholders and junk-bond owners. Mr. Tisch offered to buy
out his other partners contingent on his ability to retire
the company's subordinated debt at a discount within a
certain time frame. There are three Macy junk-bond issues
outstanding totaling $1.3 billion.
   The Tisch proposal is said to call for the financier to
acquire effectively all of Macy's equity. Although it
couldn't be learned how much Mr. Tisch has offered his fellow
shareholders, it is believed that they would suffer
significant losses on their investments. The five largest
shareholders in Macy have invested $325 million in the
national department-store chain; other, smaller shareholders
are believed to have invested a total of $100 million or
more.
   "Under Tisch's plan, everybody else would take a bath, but
his offer still represents more than what equity holders
could expect in the event of a Chapter 11 bankruptcy filing,"
said one executive who asked not to be identified. "In
effect, Tisch's offer represents an opportunity for him to
increase his bet in hopes of eventually redeeming his
original investment."
   Late last year, when Macy needed an equity infusion, Mr.
Tisch emerged as the most aggressive of the retailer's
partners, investing an additional $35.5 million. In
comparison, General Electric's GE Capital unit invested $20
million, and Mutual Shares Corp., a mutual-fund group
controlled by Michael Price, invested $22 milllion.
   Last year, Macy drew the attention of Sir Run Run, who
contributed $48 million, becoming the company's fifth-largest
shareholder. Macy management didn't inject any new capital
into the company during 1991.
   According to those familiar with the boardroom talks,
which are being attended by Macy's investment bankers,
Goldman Sachs  Co. and its legal counsel, Weil, Gotshal 
Manges, at least one other investor, Sir Run Run, also has
submitted a propoposal to salvage the troubled company. The
substance of that purported proposal couldn't be learned.
   The status of the bank talks "is going to be a sticky
issue," said Evan Mann, an analyst at Dillon Read  Co. "If
there's a question about whether Macy is going to be able to
stay afloat, the banks won't want it to draw down" its
revolving credit line.
   On Jan. 10, Macy advised its more than 20,000 suppliers
that it didn't intend to pay its bills until two weeks later.
The retailer explained that the technical requirements of its
revolving facility required it to limit its borrowings to
$150 million for 30 days.
   Ordinarily, Macy would be able to resume bigger borrowings
on its revolving credit line starting tomorrow, once the
30-day limitation period is over. Those familiar with the
talks, however, say that some of Macy's lending banks are
citing the company's weakened financial performance as a
reason why banks could restrict the availability of
additional revolving credit.
   Macy reported a $155.4 million loss for its first quarter
ended Nov. 2 and has said that sales during the crucial
Christmas season were disappointing.
   In addition to the revolving credit line, Macy currently
owes the bank group $170 million in term debt, all of which
comes due this year.
   For the fiscal year ended last Aug. 3, Macy's generated
$6.76 billion in revenue and posted a $150 million loss.