Feed Russia's Pride, Not Just Its Stomach
   ----
   By James H. Billington
Not, I believe, because our people are isolationist, but
because we don't yet understand the depth of the human
transformation that has taken place in Russia. The August
events in Moscow did not produce the traditional flames of a
violent, secular revolution but rather the slow-burning inner
fire of peaceful, spiritual change within individuals and
small groups. Those soaring summer hopes have predictably
given way to a winter of discontent that makes the fledgling
Russian democracy look in many ways like a weak Weimar
Republic waiting for its Hitler. But a situation that should
sound an alarm calling for action, has instead given rise to
a fatalistic pessimism.
   The only long-term security for the West lies in a Russian
government accountable to its people. Tragedy could be
looming in our continued indifference toward a regime that is
not only removing the greatest threat to America but also
attempting to install a basically American political and
economic system. We seem unable to mobilize even a small
fraction of the aid we found for a Germany and Japan that had
fought us in bloody wars.
   Our main excuse is that we have pressing economic problems
at home and no money to give. We are right to work with
others to provide more of the necessary financial and
technical help. But we are still the richest of all in the
food and pharmaceuticals Russia needs to get through the
winter.
   The most serious present problem for the Russians -- their
psychological vulnerability -- is something that official
America seems to understand the least, yet is in the best
position to affect. Even more difficult for proud Russians
than facing up to their long-deferred economic and ethnic
problems is accepting the humiliation of admitting to having
lived a collective lie for three-quarters of a century. Mr.
Yeltsin has made that admission, tackled those material
problems head on and legitimized democratic and market ideals
for ordinary Russians -- three things that Mikhail Gorbachev
could never bring himself to do.
   What is at stake is not any individual leader so much as
the political future of the entire young generation of
Russian democratic reformers. They believe that U.S. policies
helped force change in the 1980s and hope for U.S. leadership
now. They see themselves as having accomplished a "great
deed." They see us responding only with "little deeds" (the
term "malyedela" is a particularly caustic Russia term of
contempt).
   The social context of crippling inflation and a
demoralized military makes anger more than hunger the
greatest threat to this fragile democracy -- and accounts for
the increasingly fascist tinge to Russian nationalism.
Clearly, if we wait till the dust settles, Russian democracy
could be ground into the dust, which might well turn
radioactive and settle on us as well.
   Of course, the current Russian commitment to democracy is
not accompanied by any real historical experience or exposure
to its institutions. And it is here that the West in general
and the U.S. in particular have as yet unmobilized resources
for helping create democratic institutions in Russia and the
other republics.
   The Russians have produced in the past few years an
amazing number of the kind of non-governmental associations
that enable freedom to work in a large country: church
parishes, political clubs and parties, economic cooperatives,
cultural organizations, independent unions, advocacy groups,
and the like.
   What they need now is what America is uniquely equipped to
give: (1) a continent-wide engagement of private and local
organizations to establish direct links with counterpart
organizations in the burgeoning civil society of the former
Soviet Union; and (2) a crash program for bringing a very
large number of Russians -- perhaps as many as 50,000 -- to
the U.S. (if they promise to go back) for four or six weeks
of living and working in the key institutions of a free
society. It is both more effective and less demeaning to
bring Russians here and let them adapt our ways to their
needs than to send too many of our advisers over there.
   Democratization was defeated in China because it had
troops but no leaders. Russia now has leaders without troops
-- but the populace is thirsting for basic training. We can
help provide it.
   Authoritarianism under new banners seems likely unless
larger numbers of Russians can gain some sense of how
democratic and market institutions really work. We would then
risk becoming (in a more visceral and dangerous sense than
before) the external enemy -- in part because we proved
unwilling at a critical turning point in history to help.
   The world is watching to see if the only surviving
superpower has the magnanimity and imagination to act. Far
from providing moral leadership for an interdependent 21st
century, we might even have to look back and wonder if we
unwittingly have become what the Soviet Union was in the 20th
century: a superpower only in the narrow military sense. The
Russians' unprecedented act of self-liberation requires some
equally unprecedented form of recognition from our side. In
some dark versions of Russian folklore, a savage bear was
originally just an ordinary man. But when he was denied the
bread and salt of simple hospitality, he retreated to the
forest and returned in a transformed state to take his
revenge.
   ---
   Mr. Billington, the librarian of Congress, is the author
of the forthcoming "Breakthrough to Hope: Moscow, August
1991" (Free Press). This is based on an address delivered at
Princeton Saturday.