Bargain Loans:
   The Rush to Refinance
   Mortgages Is Creating
   Gridlock and Turmoil
   ---
   Some Homeowners Save Big,
   But Others Can't Qualify
   Or Face Lengthy Waits
   ---
   Upstart Lenders Muscle In
   ----
   By Mitchell Pacelle
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
"What surprised me is that at some banks I called, I
couldn't even get a banker on the phone, and they never
returned my call," says Mr. McCarthy, who settled on the
first bank that offered him a good rate, 8 1/8%, and prompt
service. His monthly payments will plunge to $700 from
$1,000.
   The lowest interest rates since the mid-1970s have
triggered a nationwide stampede of homeowners to mortgage
lenders, making refinancing unusually aggravating and
time-consuming. And the aggravation is likely to increase
when rates turn up significantly and droves of fence-sitters
try to refinance quickly. Moreover, many homeowners in the
recession-ravaged Northeast are finding they don't qualify to
refinance unless they ante up more equity to compensate for
falling home values.
   For lenders, the rush to refinance is a mixed blessing.
The Mortgage Bankers Association expects it to generate a
record $400 billion in refinancing business this year, fully
45% of all mortgage lending, up from an estimated $162
billion, or 30%, last year and $72 billion, or 16%, in 1990.
But although replacing high-yielding loans with
lower-yielding fixed-rate ones keeps the business from going
to competitors, it also crimps profits. And it makes the
future more perilous if interest rates rebound sharply.
   Everyone fears a repetition of the 1986 refinancing
deluge, which produced gridlock in processing applications
and angered many consumers.
   "We're telling people who come in the door that it could
take as long as 45 days" to complete a refinancing, compared
with 15 to 30 normally, says Peter Wissinger, senior vice
president of the Norwest Mortgage unit of Minneapolis-based
Norwest Corp. and one of the nation's largest mortgage
originators. "At some branches, we've had to stop taking
applications."
   Borrowers counting their refinancing savings have little
patience for explanations. "It's a nightmare," says Terry
Kretz, who manages the Newport News, Va., branch of the
Weyerhaeuser Mortgage division of Weyerhaeuser Co. of Tacoma,
Wash. "I have 35 messages on my desk right now. When I return
them, they'll ask why it's taken so long to return their
phone calls. You can't please the customer because they want
it done yesterday and the system is overloaded."
   Taylor Milner, a Newport News appraiser putting in
100-hour work weeks, says: "We've sent a letter to all of our
clients to send to potential borrowers. It says, `We'll get
to you, but don't bug us, and don't bug them.'"
   At the same time, some aggressive lenders eager to expand
market share are actually calling homeowners and urging them
to refinance.
   For homeowners, the whiff of extra money in the pocket is
powerful motivation. The Mortgage Bankers Association
estimates that refinancings, coupled with downward
adjustments of adjustable-rate mortgages, saved homeowners
$10 billion to $12 billion last year and will save even more
this year.
   If homeowners spend just part of their savings, the
economy could get a much-needed lift. Lyle Gramley, the MBA's
chief economist, believes that homeowners will view the
savings as a permanent reduction in overhead and treat them
as discretionary income. Unless they fear for their jobs, he
says, they will probably spend more.
   "But when you have interest rates falling, you always have
someone who's losing {money} also," Mr. Gramley notes.
   Banks and thrifts that hold mortgages as investments will
see interest income decline, tightening the squeeze on an
already-ailing financial sector. These losses will translate
into lower rates on savings accounts and certificates of
deposit, which provide income for many retirees.
   The biggest hit will be taken, though, by the insurance
companies, pension funds, mutual funds and individuals
holding mortgage-backed securities. As homeowners prepay old
mortgages with new ones, these securities will be paid off
sooner than expected, and the investors will have to reinvest
the proceeds at much lower rates.
   For homeowners, figuring out how to maximize savings on a
mortgage can be a bewildering task. The lowest rates are
generally accompanied by high up-front charges, called
points, with each point equal to 1% of the loan. No-point
loans, conversely, carry higher rates. Which is better? And
should a borrower lock in the rate when applying for
refinancing, or wait until the last moment? How about taking
advantage of low rates to shorten the term of the loan while
making the same or even higher monthly payments, thus
postponing the savings for years? What about the increasingly
popular hybrids of adjustable-rate and fixed-rate loans?
   David Kaufman, who two years ago paid $342,000 for his
home in suburban Los Angeles, jumped at a hybrid known as a
7-23. The 32-year-old manager at a luxury-car leasing company
refinanced from a 11 1/4% fixed-rate loan to a 7 3/4% loan
that will be fixed-rate for seven years and then adjustable.
He expects to save about $1,000 a month and plans to sell the
house before the interest rate is adjusted upward.
   Other homeowners are seizing the opportunity to shorten
their loan. Pedro Hernandez, 55, who owns a condominium in
Sylmar, Calif., has traded his 10 1/4% 30-year fixed-rate
mortgage for a 15-year fixed-rater at 8 1/4%. His monthly
payments will jump to $970 from $896, but he figures on
saving some $175,000 on interest.
   However, not all homeowners can nail down such savings.
"If people bought from 1986 on, especially co-ops and condos,
that's where you see the greatest problem," says Frank
Gooden, owner of First Merchants Inc., a mortgage broker
based in New York. Mr. Gooden says the homes of as many as
one out of every four people who call him have dropped too
much in value. The existing debt on these properties now
represents more than 80% of their value, and many lenders
won't lend more than 80%. The upshot: Many people who have
never missed a payment at a higher rate can't refinance at a
lower rate.
   "It makes me almost sick to my stomach," says Scott
Slaven, a 35-year-old leaser of commercial real estate who
bought a two-bedroom, $390,000 condominium in Manhattan two
weeks before the 1987 stock-market crash. When he tried to
refinance last year, the unit was appraised at $323,000. He
was told that he would have to pay down the loan by $10,000,
plus a two-point charge. "I was looking at $18,000 to
refinance," he complains.
   Many mortgage originators, however, say they have little
choice but to abide by the loan-to-value ratios demanded by
the big secondary-market buyers of their loans, Federal
National Mortgage Association (Fannie Mae) and Federal Home
Loan Mortgage Corp. (Freddie Mac).
   Homeowners can work around the problem -- at a price.
Robert Swegle, an accountant, shudders to think what the
Bethesda, Md., home he bought for $375,000 in 1989 would be
appraised at today. But his lender told him he could get a
new mortgage at up to 95% of the current value if he paid for
private mortgage insurance on the portion exceeding 80%. He
figures that, even with the insurance premium, reducing his
11 3/8% rate to 8 1/2% would save some $600 a month.
   Most of the nation's homeowners, however, do qualify for a
new loan, and a battle is raging for their business.
   Less-established mortgage bankers and mortgage brokers,
who act as middlemen between borrowers and lenders, are
taking advantage of runaway demand to take business from
more-established players.
   "The market is fierce," says Sam Lyons, senior vice
president of mortgage banking at Great Western Financial
Corp., a large Beverly Hills, Calif., thrift. When the Fed
cut its discount rate -- its rate on loans to member banks --
"mortgage bankers went into overdrive," he says.
   Mortgage bankers generally sell their loans into the
secondary market and make money by "servicing" them --
collecting the payments. They're using the refinancing boom
to grab market share away from thrifts and commercial banks.
With today's low rates, homeowners are opting en masse for
fixed-rate loans, which carry too much interest-rate risk for
thrifts and banks to hold on their own books (if rates rise,
they could have to pay more to their depositors than they are
earning on their fixed-rate mortgages). Many thrifts are
watching their portfolios of less-risky adjustable-rate
mortgages shrink as borrowers switch to fixed-rate loans.
   To lure customers away from rivals, upstart lenders are
hiring each other's loan officers, buying lists of homeowners
who bought homes when rates were high, and even conducting
door-to-door scouting expeditions in new housing
developments.
   But few established players are giving up business without
a fight. Many are mounting defensive drives by contacting
existing customers to offer them deals.
   Midlantic Home Mortgage Corp., a subsidiary of Midlantic
Bank of Edison, N.J., has gone so far as to contact all
current mortgage holders in the New York metropolitan area
and offer to cut the interest rate on their existing loan
agreements. That obviates the need to get a new mortgage and
allows borrowers to escape title-search and mortgage-tax
charges and get a deal by paying as little as $500.
   "More and more banks are making this format available
because of a fear that their service portfolios will continue
to deteriorate," said Mark Sussman, an executive of New
York's Capital First Mortgage Co.
   All this marketing takes bodies. Countrywide Funding
Corp., a subsidiary of Countrywide Credit Industries Inc., of
Pasadena, Calif., and one of the nation's largest mortgage
banks, currently has 140 openings for underwriters,
processors and telephone clerks. Many lenders are adding
phone lines, and some are staffing them with temporary
workers with only rudimentary knowledge of mortgages.
   Yet no one wants to overreact. "They don't want to hire a
lot of staff because it's likely to be a temporary
phenomenon. A one-percentage-point rise in interest rates
could make it all evaporate," says Richard Peach, an
economist at the Mortgage Bankers Association. "Companies
learned a lesson in 1986 and 1987," when the boom subsided
and they faced the costly task of firing employees and
closing offices.
   Before the boom peters out, lenders expect pandemonium as
rates start rising.
   In recent weeks, mortgage closings have not risen nearly
as fast as orders for title searches, suggesting that far
more people are starting the refinancing process than
finishing it, according to a survey by Telerate Systems Inc.,
a financial-information company owned by Dow Jones  Co.
   "We think that people are waiting for rates to drop
further," says Douglas Bendt, a Telerate vice president. He
notes that the month after rates started rising in 1987,
after the last refinancing boom, closings doubled.
   Over the past three days, mortgage rates have edged up in
many areas, following a trend toward higher yields on
long-term Treasury bonds. Although few economists are ready
to say rates have bottomed out, many believe that they won't
fall further in response to the December discount-rate cut.
   Many financial advisers contend it's foolish to forgo
substantial monthly savings while waiting for rates to drop
another one-eighth point, especially given the speed at which
rates could rise and the high volume and slow processing
expected when they do.
   Paul Reilly, who heads real-estate operations at KPMG Peat
Marwick, has just applied to pay off his 12% adjustable-rate
mortgage with a 9% fixed-rater, which will save him more than
$300 a month on his waterfront home in St. Petersburg, Fla.
"I don't believe rates are at the absolute bottom," he says.
"But if they go down another point, that's OK, because I
don't want to miss the cycle."
   Mr. Kretz, the Virginia mortgage lender, is amused by
homeowners still sitting on the fence. "I've talked to
customers who said, `I'm going to wait a little,'" he says.
"I say, `If you're going to wait any more, man, you won't be
able to get anyone on the phone.'"