Marketing  Media -- Advertising:
   McCaffrey Realigns Management
   In Wake of Mercedes Defection
   ----
   By Laura Bird
McCaffrey insisted the switch had been planned since Mr.
Robertson joined the firm. But the abruptness and timing of
the move set industry executives immediately speculating over
darker scenarios. The shift apparently wasn't publicly
announced. It was disclosed to the staff in a memo dated last
Monday and distributed a day later, just as Mercedes
announced its decision to fire the shop in favor of Scali,
McCabe, Sloves. Yet when McCaffrey responded to press calls
about the Mercedes shift, it never mentioned that a new chief
executive had assumed control.
   Some industry executives said Mr. Cherins's partners in
McCaffrey  McCall Partners, the closely held firm that owns
the agency and its sibling, McCaffrey  McCall Direct, must
have pushed the chairman aside. But others inside the agency
and elsewhere maintained that Mr. Cherins had boldly moved to
shake things up on his own, as a way to hold on to current
clients and let them know major changes were being made.
   The promotion of Mr. Robertson also may raise questions
about the future tenure of the ad agency's president, William
Vieser, who was passed over for the chief executive spot.
Some industry executives say Mr. Vieser may have been
penalized for the agency's loss of the Mercedes business; he
didn't return phone calls seeking comment.
   Messrs. Cherins and Robertson, who will share the title of
co-chairman of McCaffrey  McCall Partners, the holding
company, weren't available to comment on the changes, an
agency spokeswoman said. Mr. Robertson was said to be in the
Caribbean, and Mr. Cherins didn't return phone calls seeking
comment.
   The changes come in the chilly aftermath of a loss of $120
million in billings in the past month or so at McCaffrey -- a
drain of well over one-third of the shop's billings. Bacardi
Imports moved its estimated $20 million U.S. rum account in
January, only to be followed by the defection of the prize
Mercedes account.
   McCaffrey has said the losses reduce its billings to "the
range of $200 million" from $300 million in its heyday,
although some industry insiders say the actual figure could
be as low as half that amount. Employees are braced for major
dismissals. A "handful" of the agency's estimated 375
employees were fired after the Bacardi loss. An estimated 100
employees had worked on the Mercedes account.
   Mr. Cherins orchestrated McCaffrey's buy-back from Saatchi
 Saatchi in 1990 on favorable terms that required little
cash and a payout tied to the agency's future profit. But his
background was in direct marketing rather than in traditional
advertising, and for the past 18 months the agency had lacked
creative expertise in its top two posts; Mr. Vieser had been
an account executive.
   Mr. Cherins returns to the unit he started in 1981. David
McCall, the agency's creative founder, had hired him to build
the direct-mail business. He was named agency president in
the mid-1980s and became chairman soon after. But some agency
executives said they believed he was always ill at ease
outside the numbers-dominated business of direct mail.
   In his memo to the staff, Mr. Cherins insisted he had
always hoped to return to "the direct marketing arena -- my
first love." He added: "I gladly follow my heart to McCaffrey
 McCall Direct."
   ---
   DCA Faces Bias Suit
                                                                                                       

   A former employee of DCA Advertising filed a federal
lawsuit against the agency and its parent, Japanese
advertising giant Dentsu, alleging he had been dismissed
under a policy that favored Japanese employees.
   Julius Filicia, a former DCA assistant art director,
alleges a Japanese DCA executive admitted treating
Japanese-born employees more favorably than U.S.-born
employees. Mr. Filicia was among 26 employees who were fired
in September 1990: 25 were American, he charges, and one was
Japanese who had previously announced plans to retire early.
   The defendants' attorney, Howard Veisz, disputed that
version, saying there was "good ground for dismissing all of
them." He also said that about 3 Japanese workers had been
fired, "a number that's consistent with the number of
Japanese workers in the workforce."
   Five other discrimination suits are currently pending
against the agency. Mr. Veisz says he expects this one to be
dismissed. The plaintiffs are seeking damages and a jury
trial.
   ---
   Ad Notes. . . .
                                                                                                       

   SIDE 1 SETTLEMENT: Nike Inc. said its Side 1 division and
the volleyball apparel maker Sideout Sport reached an
out-of-court settlement of a $10 million trademark
infringement suit. Sideout, Pasadena, Calif., had sued Nike,
alleging the Side 1 logo and name were intentionally designed
to benefit from Sideout's reputation. Settlement terms
weren't disclosed.
                                                                                                       

   ACCOUNTS: Smith/Greenland, New York, will handle test
advertising for SmartMoney, The Wall Street Journal Magazine
of Personal Business. Ads for the personal finance magazine
to be published jointly by Dow Jones  Co. and Hearst Corp.
are breaking this month . . . Levolor Corp., Sunnyvale,
Calif., tapped Goldberg Moser O'Neill Advertising, San
Francisco, to handle its estimated $2 million to $3 million
account for blinds and shades.
                                                                                                       

   SAATCHI STAKE: Saatchi  Saatchi Co. said that Boston
money-management firm Grantham, Mayo, Van Otterloo  Co.
acquired a 3.18% stake in the company's ordinary shares.