What's News --
   World-Wide
The decision marked the first time that the high court had
rebuffed the Justice Department in interpreting Section 5 of
the 1965 Voting Rights Act.
   ---
   Fighting raged in the Caucasus region of the former Soviet
Union, and at least 60 people reportedly were killed over the
weekend in a battle between Armenia and Azerbaijan. A
spokesman for the Armenian mission in Moscow said a total of
45 Azeris and 15 Armenians had died in clashes in the
disputed enclave of Nagorno-Karabakh.
                                                                                                       

   Russian leader Yeltsin abruptly canceled appointments and
public appearances, fueling rumors of illness or a drinking
problem. But a top presidential aide said Yeltsin simply
needed time to prepare for a trip to Britain, the U.S. and
Canada.
   ---
   Israeli and Arab delegations gathered in Moscow for a
two-day Mideast peace conference that starts today, but the
talks were clouded by a Syrian boycott and a Palestinian
attempt to use delegates opposed by Israel. In Jerusalem, the
Shamir government survived no-confidence motions in
Parliament with the help of far-right parties.
   ---
   Gennifer Flowers said Arkansas Gov. Clinton, a Democratic
presidential hopeful, lied when he denied having more than a
friendly relationship with her. The Arkansas woman, saying
she had an affair with him, played parts of an audio tape of
what she said was Clinton talking with her on the phone but
wouldn't release the whole tape.
   ---
   Bush will request that Congress boost the Justice
Department's spending authority 9% to $11.3 billion, with
sizable increases slated to fight violent crime and drug
trafficking, Justice Department officials announced.
   ---
   Jury selection began in the Milwaukee sanity trial of
admitted serial killer Jeffrey Dahmer, 31, accused of
strangling and dismembering 15 young males. The trial is
intended to determine whether Dahmer will be sent to prison
or to a mental hospital. Dahmer, who was arrested in July,
has pleaded guilty but insane.
   ---
   Muslim fundamentalists proposed a dialogue with Algeria's
military-backed regime, their first public offer to negotiate
an end to the country's political turmoil and the
government's crackdown on their movement. A member of the
Islamic Salvation Front said that, if talks occur, the party
would demand national elections.
   ---
   The U.N. denounced the harassment of an arms inspection
team in Baghdad. Three U.N. weapons inspectors were roughed
up by a crowd of about 40 men as Iraqi police stood by, the
U.N. said. The incident was the latest in a series of
confrontations involving the inspectors, whose work is being
carried out under terms of the Gulf War truce.
   ---
   The U.S. recalled its ambassador from Haiti to protest a
weekend attack on a meeting of political leaders hosted by
Prime Minister-designate Rene Theodore. The Haitian
government, meanwhile, admitted that police carried out the
attack, in which Theodore's bodyguard was shot dead and other
politicians were beaten.
   ---
   A rape trial got under way in Indianapolis for former
world heavyweight boxing champion Mike Tyson. If convicted of
the charges, Tyson, 25, could be sentenced to 63 years in
prison. His accuser is an 18-year-old black beauty pageant
contestant who alleges he raped her last July in his
Indianapolis hotel room. Tyson denies the charges.
   ---
   South African police arrested the leader of the black
radical Pan Africanist Congress and fired tear gas to
disperse hundreds of demonstrators at a rally near
Johannesburg. Bennie Alexander and 11 other members of the
group were taken into custody but later released. The rally
was organized to protest rent and electricity charges.
   ---
   Italy offered China economic aid but insisted Beijing must
demonstrate its respect for human rights as Chinese leader Li
Peng began discussions in Rome with Italian Prime Minister
Andreotti.