Hartford Life Agrees to Joint Venture
   In Plan to Bolster Ailing Mutual Benefit
   ----
   By Susan Pulliam
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The agreement will likely involve the transfer of the
Mutual business to Hartford, which is based in Hartford,
Conn. The arrangement could eventually help add to the
capital of Mutual, because it would participate in the future
profits of the business. The operation to be transferred
includes 160,000 corporate owned policyholders who pay annual
premiums of $1.8 billion, the company said.
   However, the pact with Hartford could still be abandoned
if a recent Bush administration tax package goes through.
According to regulators, the agreement is conditioned upon
the retention of favorable tax advantages of the so-called
COLI business. These advantages would be stripped away under
the Bush plan.
   Corporate-owned life insurance is a type of life insurance
companies take out on groups of key employees. Companies are
able to take loans against the value of those policies,
however, and deduct the interest. Under the Bush plan, the
interest on COLI loans would no longer be tax deductible. Mr.
Palmieri has said that without the tax advantages, most of
the policies would lapse. He has said the policies represent
"hundreds of millions" of dollars in revenue.
   Regulators did not release details or terms of the
agreement and it is unclear how much of the future profits of
the company Mutual Benefit will retain. It is also unclear
how much, if any, of Mutual Benefit's sour real estate loans
will be transferred to Hartford, a unit of ITT Hartford
Insurance Group.
   "If Hartford is behaving like most insurance companies, it
is going to insist that most of the assets are good ones,"
said Martin Weiss, of Weiss Research in Palm Beach, Fla.
"That implies that the assets that remain are reduced in
quality," he said.
   Hartford is rated triple-A by Standard  Poor's Inc. and
A-plus by A.M. Best Co., an insurance rating service in
Oldwick, N.J.