Chemical and Manufacturers Increase
   Forecast of Cost Savings, Size of Charge
   ----
   By Steven Lipin
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The deal was the first in a wave of large bank mergers
announced last year, prompted by the excess capacity in the
industry and weak earnings at many institutions. Many of the
bank mergers are dependent upon cost savings coming from
overlapping expenses and businesses.
   In one of those combinations, NCNB Corp. and C&S/Sovran
Corp. announced Tuesday the completion of their $4.3 billion
merger and the formation of NationsBank Corp., the new name
for the combined companies. NationsBank is now the
third-largest bank-holding company in the nation, with $119
billion in assets and about 1,900 offices in nine states,
primarily in the Southeast and Texas.
   In the Chemical announcement, the company said that it now
expects cost savings to reach $750 million annually by 1995,
up from a projected $650 million. The July savings figures
were based on estimates by senior managers, but have been
updated to include projections from mid-level managers. "The
new estimate reflects additional opportunities for cost
savings in occupancy, technology and other corporate-wide
expenses," the company said.
   "That's a real pickup in earnings power once you get past
1991," said Judah Kraushaar, an analyst at Merrill Lynch &
Co.
   The combined company, with assets of roughly $140 billion,
had estimated that it would take a $550 million restructuring
charge. The charge, which covers severance and technology
costs, was increased because of added costs in writing down
technology services and other equipment. There's been no
change in the staff reduction estimates of 6,200 employees.
The new entity will have about 39,000 employees.
   After the announcement, shares of Chemical, which slipped
in recent months from a high of around $28 when the merger
was announced, fell $2.125 to $21.25 in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading. Manufacturers Hanover's stock
fell $1.875 in Big Board trading. After the close of trading
Tuesday, each share of Manufacturers Hanover stock converted
into 1.14 shares of Chemical stock. The new entity will
retain Chemical's stock symbol.
   Despite investor concern that the new management team was
slow in combining the banking giants, the Chemical merger
appears to be on schedule. The next step is the sale of $1.25
billion in new common stock, which will be followed by the
merger of the lead banks, Chemical Bank and Manufacturers
Hanover Trust Co., on June 30. The roadshow for the stock
offering will begin in the next few weeks.
   Most analysts were expecting the new Chemical to earn
around seven cents a share in the fourth quarter. Analysts
are likely to scale back fourth-quarter 1991 estimates but
increase earnings estimates for subsequent quarters. The
banks will report consolidated fourth-quarter earnings.
   Chemical is expected to begin a new marketing campaign
today to both corporate and consumer clients detailing how
the merger will affect customers, bank officials say.