The People's Proxy:
   Shareholder Proposals
   On Pay Must Be Aired,
   SEC to Tell 10 Firms
   ---
   At Bell Atlantic, a Priest Wins
   Long Fight for a Vote
   On Plan to Halt Bonuses
   ---
   Non-Binding, but Significant
   ----
   By Kevin G. Salwen
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Until today, Father Conti's efforts have been ignored. His
proposals, crudely typed on a manual typewriter and
accompanied by handwritten cover letters, have routinely been
passed over by the company, with the blessing of the
Securities and Exchange Commission.
   But today, the SEC is switching sides. Responding to the
public furor over high executive pay, the agency is expected
to mail out letters to 10 major American companies, including
Bell Atlantic, prohibiting them from excluding proposals like
Father Conti's from their proxy ballots. The action will
reverse the agency's decades-old policy of not allowing
executive pay proposals to be put to shareholder vote. The
change could turn figures traditionally on the fringe of the
financial world, such as Father Conti, into a major nuisance
for the corporate elite. The new ruling could also trigger
proposals from more influential institutional holders.
   At Baltimore Gas  Electric shareholders will be asked to
approve a non-binding resolution to cap top officers' pay at
20 times that of the average worker. At Grumman Corp.,
stockholders will vote on a proposal to jettison the
management bonus plan until the stock price regains its 1986
level of about $27 a share. And at Chrysler Corp., the SEC
will allow shareholders to consider a measure that would
limit the value of executive stock options. Executives at a
number of other major U.S. companies will face similar
unaccustomed scrutiny of their pay envelopes.
   The SEC's decision is its third action on executive pay in
the past year, and by far its most significant. Under
pressure from shareholders and Congress, and realizing that
it was blocking stockholders from freely speaking to
directors about executive pay, the agency decided to force
managements to take the heat. In its previous actions, the
SEC has taken steps to allow shareholders to change company
bylaws affecting executive pay and has announced plans to
force companies to value stock options in a uniform way.
   A director's "job is not to play Santa Claus and set
whatever compensation management asks for, nor is it to
rubber-stamp whatever shareholders say," says SEC Chairman
Richard Breeden. "We hope this will result in the board being
better informed on shareholder views and doing a better job
in setting pay."
   To be sure, the odds against shareholder proposals made by
the likes of Father Conti are long. Big institutional
stockholders rarely vote against management on proxy issues.
Moreover, by law, even if the proposals are approved, they
will be non-binding.
   But the SEC's action is nevertheless sure to increase
pressure on directors to hold the line on executive
compensation. With the political climate turning against high
executive pay, there is even some speculation that laws will
be changed to give resolutions like Father Conti's more
teeth.
   The new SEC policy, which takes effect immediately,
permits shareholders to vote on proposals that target top
management compensation only -- not on broader proposals that
deal with all company managers. Indeed, several of the
proposals tentatively approved by the SEC, including those
targeting Grumman and Chrysler, will be allowed only if the
proponent inserts words to make clear the measures apply to
the top tier. While the SEC has approved just the 10
shareholder proposals so far, the policy change effectively
opens the door to similar proposals by shareholders of any
public company. Those additional proposals would also be
subject to SEC approval.
   Under current rules any shareholder with at least $1,000
of a company's stock, or 1% of the total shares, and who has
held them for at least a year, can file a proposal for
inclusion in the proxy. The proposals approved by the SEC
today all come from individual shareholders, rather than big
institutional players. Many are handwritten or awkwardly
typed. The little shareholder, says Mr. Breeden, is
increasingly concerned about this issue, and that's a big
reason why the SEC has changed its policy.
   Hardware-store owner Emil Rossi calls his provision to
restrict Chrysler's stock options a question of
accountability. "I own a little family-owned store and if we
don't make it, I'm accountable," says the 67-year-old Mr.
Rossi. "We think you should be able to put anything on a
proposal, and if 51% of the shareholders vote for it, so be
it."
   His plan would block Chrysler from changing terms of
executives' stock options when the stock price fails to rise,
as happened last year. Chairman Lee Iacocca "took the big
benefit a few years ago when the company was doing well, and
now he's still taking the big benefit when the company is
doing terrible," Mr. Rossi contends. Chrysler declines to
comment. For 1990, the last year for which figures are
available, Mr. Iacocca earned $4.6 million in wages,
incentives and other compensation.
   Even before a single shareholder vote has been cast on
executive compensation, changes are starting to occur in the
way American corporations treat their shareholders, pay their
executives and handle relations between directors and
management. Executives "are looking at their compensation
now, because they don't want to be embarrassed later," says
Peg O'Hara of the Investor Responsibility Research Center,
which does research for big stockholders.
   Many companies are showing a new concern for the views of
the pension funds, mutual funds and other institutions that
own the bulk of corporate America. Several, including ITT
Corp. and United Airlines parent UAL Corp., have negotiated
with major holders to revamp the way they pay management or
at least explain that pay. Others are seeking to defuse
shareholder concern by tying pay more closely to performance.
   The proxy changes could help speed a significant though
still-subtle trend in corporate America. Major shareholders,
who traditionally have been passive, are increasingly finding
that they like being listened to by top management, and may
start pursuing a hands-on role in additional aspects of
corporate activity. Moreover, the ability of shareholders to
vote against directors on the compensation committee who
ignore their views could alter the cozy relationships between
chief executives who nominate directors and the directors who
in turn set the CEO's pay, predicts Stanford law professor
Joseph Grundfest, a former SEC commissioner. "The bottom line
is that the board of directors has got to take a much more
arm's length view of the CEO," he argues.
   That's exactly what Father Conti and hundreds of other
individual shareholders across the country have been arguing
for years. And for years, they have seen the SEC shut them
down and shield corporate executives from potentially
embarrassing votes. Under the securities laws, companies can
petition the SEC to allow them to exclude proposals from
their proxy ballots. This year, each of the 10 companies now
facing shareholder proposals on executive pay argued that the
matters should be excluded. In comment for this article,
several said the proposals crimped the flexibility of
management and usurped the responsibilities of company
directors.
   Traditionally, the SEC has agreed that managers' pay is
part of the "ordinary business" of a company to be decided by
directors. After all, the agency has reasoned, shareholders
shouldn't be allowed to set assembly-line workers' pay -- so
why let them set executive compensation?
   Back in Evansville, a Midwestern manufacturing and
university town, Father Conti laughs at the SEC's old
interpretation of "ordinary business." "I'm not a financier
or anything, but it seems to me that doubling a man's salary
is more than day-to-day business," he says. He says his
campaign has also involved lobbying the SEC to change its
mind.
   It would be hard to find someone whose life style differs
more from the typical corporate chief executive's. The
monsignor lives on the east side of town in a small
ground-floor apartment that is a jumble of rumpled clothes,
medicine bottles, papers and open books. The white walls are
unadorned. A stack of videocassettes on religious topics is
broken only by the Marx Brothers' "Night at the Opera,"
though Father Conti owns no VCR.
   Pushing aside two uncovered pillows from a 20-year-old
couch, he jokes: "It's the cleaning lady's day off."
   A native of Providence, R.I., and the only child of a pair
of pharmacists, eight-year-old Leo Conti shocked a family
dinner nearly 60 years ago by announcing his plan to devote
his life to religion. But later that night, his father told
him, "Whatever you pick, give it all you've got."
   When his mother died in 1981, she left stocks and bonds to
her only child. He knew a bit about the market, and what he
knew didn't comfort him: At Providence College in the
mid-1940s, he wrote a paper on the stock-market crash of
1929.
   So he quickly unloaded virtually all his new holdings,
hanging on only to 19 American Telephone  Telegraph Co.
shares. When ATT was broken up in 1984, they became Bell
Atlantic shares. Two stock splits later, he owns 76 of Bell
Atlantic's 395 million shares outstanding, or less than
0.00002%. Notably, though the stock price has sagged in
recent years, the value of those shares has increased more
than 250% since they were issued in 1984, if reinvested
dividends are included.
   Since becoming chairman 2 1/2 years ago, Mr. Smith has won
praise for turning Bell Atlantic into one of the most
aggressive "Baby Bells" through his use of new technology and
acquisitions, including his latest plan to buy a cellular
phone company for $2.5 billion. Analysts commend Mr. Smith on
his push into new services, cost reduction, and drive to make
the company a more efficient operation. Still, the company
last year had operating profit of $1.33 billion, down 3% from
1990.
   In 1990, Mr. Smith's salary was $628,600. His short-term
bonus was almost as large, and his stock options and
performance grants brought the total to $2.4 million. (Bell
Atlantic doesn't quarrel with the accounting but won't
confirm the numbers.) The company's stock price, meanwhile,
dropped 3.6% in 1990 and another 10% in 1991.
   Father Conti's proposal would eliminate Mr. Smith's bonus,
as well as bonuses for other top managers, and return the
money to customers in Bell Atlantic's service area of
mid-Atlantic states. Mr. Smith wasn't available for comment
for this article but, at the moment, other Bell Atlantic
executives say they don't feel threatened by the Conti plan.
Separate from anything the priest or the SEC is doing, they
say, the company two weeks ago froze top management's
salaries and increased the bonus pay for lower-level
managers. And, they note, the company's 1.1 million
shareholders had a chance last year to express their views
when they voted on a proposal to start paying senior
managers' bonuses partly in stock. In the past, bonuses were
paid all in cash. The proposal passed with 90% of the vote.
   Moreover, Bell Atlantic executives argue that pay levels
are right where they ought to be to provide incentives for
management. "If you want to attract and retain good people,
you have to pay them properly," says Graham Ragland,
assistant vice president for compensation and benefits. "We
have nothing to hide, so there's no reason for us to be
overly sensitive to outside pressure."
   Indeed, analysts and independent observers say the
company's pay levels are on a par with competitors'. "Given
the size of his company and what the rest of the industry
pays, it's not excessive," says Robert Morris, an analyst at
Goldman, Sachs  Co. in San Francisco.
   Robert Pozen, general counsel at Fidelity Investments
mutual-fund group, a Bell Atlantic shareholder, says that
while he hasn't studied the Bell Atlantic question, the Conti
plan is the kind of proposal he would oppose. "We like to
keep base salary as low as possible and have significant pay
based on performance of the company," he says. Eliminating
bonuses would run directly counter to that.
   Father Conti, who has never attended a Bell Atlantic
annual meeting, knows he has an uphill battle. He expects
institutional holders, with 42% of the stock, to vote against
him. Individuals, he hopes, will support his measure.
   In the end, Father Conti insists, his idea for
compensation is simple, if a bit unorthodox for capitalism
and corporate America. Quoting a 100-year-old encyclical of
Pope Leo XIII, which established the Catholic policy on
compensation, he says the worker should have enough income to
"provide for himself and his family sufficient to live a life
in keeping with their Christian dignity." That's a code,
Father Conti argues, that management should live by, too.
   ---
                       Attack On Pay
                                                                                                       

   The SEC is telling the following companies to allow
non-binding shareholder votes on pay proposals.
                                                                                                       

 Company              Proposal
                                                                                                       

 IBM                  Improve disclosure of officers' pay
                      and justify those amounts
                                                                                                       

 Baltimore Gas        Cap executives' pay at 20 times the
    Electric         average worker's salary
                                                                                                       

 Eastman Kodak        Disclose executives' severance
                      packages
                                                                                                       

 Aetna                Cut directors' pay for failure to
                      attend board meetings
                                                                                                       

 Equimark             Limit executives' severance pay if
                      corporate performance isn't adequate
                                                                                                       

 Bell Atlantic        End management's short-term bonus plan
                                                                                                       

 Black Hills Corp.    Elininate directors' retirement plan
                                                                                                       

 Grumman*             End cash bonuses to management until
                      company's stock rebounds to 1986 level
                                                                                                       

 Chrysler*            Disallow revaluing of stock options
                                                                                                       

 Battle Mountain      Cut executive pay 30% and end stock
   Gold*              options until company profit rebounds
                                                                                                       

   *These proposals will be allowed for a vote if the
proponents make technical adjustments to ensure the proposals
only target top management.