Movies:
   Coming Soon: Cut-Rate Films on Tuesday
   ----
   By Thomas R. King
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The offer comes amid a growing debate in Hollywood over
whether declining admissions and box-office receipts are a
result of the recession, continued competition from home
video and cable television -- or just crummy movies.
   Total movie attendance dropped about 8% last year, yet
ticket prices rose a little more than 5%, continuing their
climb of the past decade. While the average admission price
last year was about $5, a price of $7.50 for a first-run film
in some big cities isn't uncommon.
   There wasn't an immediate positive response from other
major Hollywood studios, whose participation will be critical
for the cut-rate idea to spread. Movie theater owners say it
would be difficult to explain to customers in multiplex
theaters that they have to pay full price for some movies and
half price for others.
   But Universal, a unit of Matsushita Electric Industrial
Co.'s MCA division, says it's pleased by the initial response
of some major theater chains, many of which have tried
different discounting plans in the past with varying degrees
of success. Tom Pollock, chairman of the motion picture group
at MCA, says there will be participation by one of North
America's largest chains, Cineplex Odeon Corp. -- which, not
coincidentally, is 49%-owned by MCA -- and that he has
received expressions of interest from other large chains,
such as AMC Entertainment Inc. and Carmike Cinemas Inc.
   Mr. Pollock says he's "inviting" all exhibitors and movie
studios to go along with the plan for first-run features. "I
want to make this very clear, this is an experiment," he
adds. "If it turns out that we are not attracting more
customers, then none of us are going to want to go along with
it." The experiment will include Universal's current movie
"Fried Green Tomatoes," and its coming Sylvester Stallone
movie "Stop] Or My Mom Will Shoot," among others.
   Some rival studio executives say the plan may be partly
motivated by a desire to help boost business for Cineplex
Odeon, which is suffering financial difficulties. Others note
that Universal is testing its plan on relatively modestly
budgeted pictures, and they question whether the studio will
encourage half-price admissions later in the year for its
more expensive movies.
   While Universal is acting as cheerleader for the
half-price movement, it won't adjust normal contract terms
with exhibitors. Studios can get as much as 90% of box-office
revenue in the first two weeks of a major blockbuster, with
the percentage steadily declining over the run. While
Universal and exhibitors that go along with the plan would
get less per ticket on Tuesdays, they clearly hope to make up
the reduced revenue by increased volume. Universal says that,
in the U.S., the average screen plays to fewer than 40 people
on a typical midweek day.
   Movie studios don't set ticket prices; theater chains do.
One sticky issue, however, is that some studios have
contracts with "per-capita" requirements -- a minimum amount
the studio will accept for each ticket sold -- that
essentially set a floor on ticket prices. Those requirements
probably would hurt theater owners financially if they charge
only half price, and some executives say studios with such
plans would need to re-jigger them to give theater owners a
buffer. Universal says it doesn't have such requirements.
   "It might have merit in these times, but I think it would
have been easier to go to the National Association of Theater
Owners and see if they wanted to embrace it," says Barry
Reardon, president of distribution at Warner Bros. He notes
that the United Artists theater circuit tested a similar
program in Florida, but it failed. Other studios declined to
comment.
   While some theater exhibitors applaud Universal's plan,
others are less enthusiastic, noting that matinee discounting
and lower prices for seniors and children are already
everyday occurrences at many theaters.
   Sony Corp.'s Loews Theaters Management Corp. unit doesn't
plan to get involved. Alan Friedberg, chairman, says that in
his experience, discounting tickets doesn't increase audience
size. "What they should do is concentrate on making better
films so that 1992 will see a return to the record-breaking
{box-office} year of 1989, which wasn't so long ago," he
adds.
   Sumner Redstone, president and chief executive officer of
theater operator National Amusements Inc., says he hasn't yet
decided whether that chain will go along. "I have
reservations about whether this is going to solve any major
problem, even though they may be on the right track."
   Universal also is asking theater owners to cut Tuesday
prices at their lucrative concession stands. Popcorn and soda
sales sometimes make the difference between profit and loss,
and theater owners aren't enthusiastic about that request.
   But Michael Patrick, president of Carmike Cinemas, is
positive about the overall plan. "We welcome this policy. We
are eager to do it," he says. That chain had a Tuesday
"bargain" night from 1982 to 1986, but had to cancel it
because of some studios' "per-capita" requirements, even
though it brought in new moviegoers. "We noticed that the
patrons were not our normal patrons by any means. We had the
extremely rich bargain-hunters and some lower-income people.
You could tell by the cars in the parking lot."