Sports:
   Many Fitness Buffs Climb Steepest Cliffs
   Without Leaving Comfort of Their Clubs
   ----
   By Suein L. Hwang and Christina Duff
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
Dubbed sport climbing, or "pumping plastic," the new
indoor sport takes place on a man-made wall, usually at least
70 feet high and constructed from granite or synthetic
materials to resemble the face of a cliff. The increasingly
popular activity is attracting numerous office-bound
dilettantes and fad-hungry health clubs and is opening what
had traditionally been a dangerous sport for a small cadre of
hard-core climbers to a new generation of neophytes. What's
more, sport climbing is proving lucrative for a number of
companies involved in making clothing and equipment for the
activity.
   One sport-climbing enthusiast is Bernie Simmons, a
40-year-old Amoco Corp. executive in Chicago. "It's almost an
obsession," he explains during a recent lunch hour.
   That obsession isn't Mount Everest or Pikes Peak. It's
"Mount Chicago," the one-time elevator shaft turned 120-foot
queen of the climbing-wall world. Mount Chicago is
conveniently nestled in the Sporting Club along Michigan
Avenue, right next door to Mr. Simmons's office. Such
luxuries don't come cheap: The seven-story health club costs
an average $1,468 for the first year of membership.
   Despite the high price tag, Mr. Simmons enjoys the
benefits that a totally artificial environment provides.
"It's always 70 degrees and no rocks are falling down on
you," he says confidently. "Besides, the showers are only two
floors up."
   Reaching the top of a 100-foot wall isn't much to crow
about, so sport climbing has been forced to find new goals
and aspirations. While rock climbers may dream of climbing
mountains in a few days, sport climbers will devote hours or
days working on small difficult sections, like an overhang or
ledge, rather than selecting the easiest route to the top.
"The goal is more of a movement, rather than grinding your
way to the top; it's more like vertical gymnastics," says
Peter Mayfield, owner of Cityrock Indoor Climbing Center in
Emeryville, Calif.
   In fact, sport climbing breaks every time-honored
rock-climbing rule. Unlike rock climbing, where climbers rely
only on what Mother Nature provides or on protective bolts
that they hammer into the rock as they battle up to the
summit, sport climbers are already attached by ropes to
preexisting bolts. Most important, unlike most rock climbers,
many sport climbers are uninterested in the great outdoors.
"A significant number of people actually prefer to climb
indoors," insists Michael Kennedy, publisher and editor of
Climbing magazine.
   It is this added element of safety that attracts those who
like to think of themselves as daredevils but don't choose to
take big risks. No one tracks the exact numbers, but many
believe the number of climbers in this country has doubled in
the last few years, with as many as half a million climbers
now actively pursuing sport climbing. "People are turning to
these experiences, which aren't very dangerous, but make them
feel like they're having this great adventure," says Ajax
Green, a consultant who helps start up so-called climbing
gyms.
   Certainly, the typical sport climber appears to be a very
different animal from the rugged mountaineer stereotype. Neon
tank tops and tights have replaced faded army fatigues and
sweatshirts as the climbing uniform of choice. Climbing
shoes, which as a rule must be soft and flexible, now come in
a rainbow of bright colors. Noreen Austin, director of
strategic marketing at Hind Inc., a California-based
running-wear maker that has benefited from the fad, says the
whole look of sport climbing has "definitely become a fashion
statement."
   In short, the typical new sport climber is professional,
affluent and educated -- "a demographer's dream," quips one
gym operator.
   That's good news for climbing-gear makers and
sporting-goods retailers. Black Diamond Equipment Ltd., a
climbing-gear maker in Utah, says its business has grown over
50% in the last five to six years. The company estimates that
30% of all climbers, indoors and out, got started in the last
two years.
   A number of more mainstream companies are also
capitalizing on the sport-climbing wave, hoping for a needed
edge in an anemic business environment. Club Med Inc., the
all-inclusive resort operator known for an emphasis on
trend-setting activities, reports positive response to the
recently unveiled $25,000 rock wall at its Punta Cana village
on the southern coast of Mexico.
   Entre Prises USA Inc. expects to do more than $720,000
worth of business in 1992, its fourth year in operation, by
making climbing walls that cost anywhere from $5 to $40 a
square foot for a paneling system that can be taken apart and
put together in different ways to change the climbing
patterns. Cityrock, a climbing gym complete with weight room
and lockers, says it became profitable in its first 11 months
of operation and soon plans to open a San Francisco location.
"It's just unbelievable. I'm busy all the time," says Ralph
Erenzo, a New Yorker who recently quit his job as a
trade-show consultant to organize sport-climbing events full
time.
   One health club with a low ceiling has even found a way to
climb without the wall. The Equinox Fitness Club on
Manhattan's Upper West Side attracts attention with a
prominently displayed "treadwall" in its window. Opposite a
life-like sculpture of a climber protruding from a wall, the
$10,000 machine acts as a vertical treadmill that rotates as
the climber works the brightly-colored handholds dotting its
side.
   Ironically, because sport climbing is perceived as an
inherently safer activity than the outdoor variety, there is
growing evidence that the new generation of climbers is too
lax about the danger of the sport. Recently, an East Coast
climbing instructor who forgot to tie the knot on his harness
during a lesson fell 30 to 35 feet, crushing the bones in his
heels and breaking his back.
   "It's a reflection of the new attitude," says Chris
Grover, president of Entre Prises who is trying to start an
association to set manufacturing standards for walls. "In the
old days, you knew that you had to be totally proficient in
certain things or you would die. That's not there anymore."
   There is also unhappiness among the ranks of the
traditionalists, who are angered or saddened by the dramatic
changes the sport has undergone. "Some of the attitudes of
the newer, younger climbers are a bit hard to take," concedes
Mr. Grover. "Climbing used to be a loner, oddball sport, but
last week I did an orientation for 16 McDonald's executives,"
reflects Matthew Childs, assistant editor at Playboy magazine
and a part-time instructor at the Sporting Club's Mount
Chicago. "In terms of mass culture, what could be more
symbolic than McDonald's?"
   Sport-climbing proponents argue that the new climbing
methods have democratized the activity and are propelling it
into the big leagues. A rash of national competitions has
started up, and Americans are getting more involved in World
Cup competitions in Europe, where sport climbing is more
established. A new federation is pushing to bring sport
climbing to the Olympics as a demonstration sport in 1996 and
hopes it will become a fully recognized Olympic activity by
the year 2000.
   But until then, the fitness industry is enjoying the
business and attention the new fad is bringing to it. Danny
Enricco, owner of the Equinox, gazes at the club's new
treadwall and its downhill ski machine and wonders: "Who
knows what they'll come up with next? Maybe a wind-surfing
simulator."