Quarterly Review of Mutual Funds:
   Health-Care Issues Led Growth Sector to Top in 1991
   ----
   By Jonathan Clements
   Staff Reporter of the Wall Street Journal
That's a pretty nice gain, especially in a year when the
Standard & Poor's 500-Stock Index rose 30.4%. But if you
really wanted growth last year, the place to be was Twentieth
Century Investors, a Kansas City, Mo., fund group that
manages $15.2 billion in 13 funds.
   Few mutual funds pursue growth with quite the fervor of
Twentieth Century's six U.S. stock funds. "They're pretty
much pedal-to-the-metal growth," says Kenneth Gregory, editor
of L/G No-Load Fund Analyst, a San Francisco newsletter.
   Twentieth Century's U.S. stock funds returned an average
63.52% last year. Three of the funds ranked among the fund
industry's top 25 performers for 1991, and four of them made
the list for the leading fourth-quarter funds.
   A big reason for that stellar performance was the hefty
holdings of health-care stocks in the Twentieth Century
funds. Indeed, these stocks have performed so spectacularly
that the fund industry's top performers for the past year,
five years and 10 years all earned their top spots by
concentrating exclusively on health-care issues.
                                                                                                       

   FOURTH-QUARTER LEADER
   Twentieth Century Vista Investors
   +22.92%

   Robert Puff says there's no great mystery about why
Twentieth Century Vista Investors performed so well in the
fourth quarter.
   "We did the same thing in the quarter as we've done for
years," says Mr. Puff, the fund's co-manager. "We're
determined and longstanding growth-stock investors. Growth
stocks did well, and we owned a lot of them."
   Mr. Puff, 46 years old, isn't keen to reveal what the $764
million fund is currently up to. But at the time of the
fund's Oct. 31 annual report, the fund had 17% of its assets
in computer software companies and an additional 33% in
pharmaceutical, medical equipment and other health-care
stocks. The biggest positions: Telefonos de Mexico S.A.,
software developer Borland International Inc. and NovaCare
Inc., which provides rehabilitation services to nursing
homes. Many of the fund's stocks have market values below $1
billion.
   Growth stocks have been on a tear since 1989. Twentieth
Century Vista, though it stumbled badly in 1990's brief bear
market, has soared 122.77% over the past three years,
compared with 66.31% for the S&P 500. What if the economy
rebounds, and more economically sensitive companies return to
favor?
   That prospect doesn't faze Mr. Puff. If the economy starts
to recover, "it stands to reason that some people would move
money toward cyclicals," he says. "If those are the ones that
have earnings growth later in this year, those are the ones
we will be buying. We're not going to sit here and own
computer software and biotechnology companies if the growth
is going on elsewhere."
                                                                                                       

   12-MONTH LEADER
   Oppenheimer Global Bio-Tech Fund
   +121.13%
                                                                                                       

   November's sell-off in biotechnology stocks has done
nothing to cool Kenneth Oberman's ardor.
   "My feeling is that this is a very different sort of area
from most other technologies, which come and go," says Mr.
Oberman, manager of the $200 million Oppenheimer Global
Bio-Tech Fund. "This is not a flash in the pan."
   On Nov. 15, when the Dow Jones Industrial Average dropped
120.31 points, or 3.9%, the Oppenheimer fund plunged 8.6%.
Despite that one-day drubbing, the fund, which is currently
closed to new investors, gained 15.17% during the fourth
quarter and 121.13% in the past year.
   Mr. Oberman says the sell-off "hurt my stomach a lot." But
he also says that he remains bullish on the area, because of
the brisk pace of innovation.
   "Much more breakthrough work is occurring in this area,"
notes Mr. Oberman, 61 years old. "To me, that means we're
going to have products in the future. We're not seeing any
diminution in the flow of the new ideas and the steps forward
in knowledge."
   He notes that the Food and Drug Administration has now
approved 13 biotechnology products, including five in 1991.
This year, he is looking for approval for another 13 to 15
products.
   In picking stocks, Mr. Oberman sticks mostly with
companies that either have drugs on the market or are in the
final stages of product-testing and expect to have products
for sale within two years. That approach has led him to buy
stocks such as Amgen Inc. and Genzyme Corp., which trade at
around 40 times analysts' estimated 1992 earnings.
                                                                                                       

   FIVE-YEAR LEADER
   Financial Strategic-Health Sciences
   +378.06%
                                                                                                       

   In 1991, health-care stocks made the rest of the market
look sickly by comparison. One big beneficiary was John
Kaweske.
   The dazzling 1991 performance of health-care stocks
propelled one of John Kaweske's funds, the $1 billion
Financial Strategic-Health Sciences, to the top of the
five-year ranking, with a total return of 378.06%.
   Less noticed, but probably more impressive, is the
performance of Mr. Kaweske's other fund, Financial Industrial
Income Fund. The fund is a so-called equity-income fund,
which means it is intended for more conservative investors
who are looking for both capital gains and income.
   But this year, the $1.6 billion Financial Industrial
Income's performance has been anything but staid. Buoyed by a
22% stake in health-care stocks, the fund has returned 46.28%
this year, making it one of the top equity-income funds.
   In picking health-care stocks, Mr. Kaweske, 50, is
especially interested in two types of companies: those that
are innovative and those that are helping to hold down
health-care costs.
   For instance, Mr. Kaweske has been a recent buyer of
Qual-Med Inc., a health maintenance organization. "It fits in
the cost-containment theme," he says. "The HMO is unique in
that it emphasizes preventative intervention and member
education. It's hospital utilization rate is among the lowest
for any HMO."
   Mr. Kaweske figures that Qual-Med, which finished at
$13.375 a share Friday, earned $1.25 a share in 1991 and will
earn $1.50 a share this year. "In 1992, we expect membership
growth of 12% to 15%," says Mr. Kaweske. "But in addition,
the company could do some acquisitions."
                                                                                                       

   10-YEAR LEADER
   Fidelity Select-Health Care
   +1021.16%
                                                                                                       

   Ever since Fidelity Select-Health Care replaced Fidelity
Magellan Fund as the country's top-performing mutual fund
over 10 years, money has flooded into the fund.
   The health-care fund claimed the 10year title from
Magellan in July 1991, and since then the fund's assets have
surged 80% to almost $1.2 billion.
   Fund manager Andrew Offit has used some of the money to
further bolster his bets on his three biggest holdings,
Amgen, Pfizer Inc. and Schering-Plough Corp. As of Oct. 31,
those three stocks alone accounted for over 28% of the fund's
assets.
   But in addition, Mr. Offit has also started to build big
positions in other stocks. Two new favorites are Merck & Co.
and Medco Containment Services Inc., both of which are now
among the fund's top 10 holdings.
   "I think Merck has a chance in the mid90s to see its
earnings growth accelerate," says Mr. Offit, 31. "I'm very
impressed with the current products and the new product
pipeline, and with the creativity of the management."
   Mr. Offit reckons Merck, which finished at $168.875
Friday, will earn $6.50 a share this year, up from an
estimated $5.50 a share for 1991.
   The Fidelity fund has also been a recent buyer of Medco
Containment Services, which cuts down on the cost of
prescription drugs by distributing the drugs through the mail
system.
   "The niche that they're in is a great niche, because it
plays on cost containment," says Mr. Offit. "What's exciting
is the next phase. Once they build up clout, they can
leverage up on that in terms of their buying power from the
big pharmaceutical companies."
   Mr. Offit thinks Medco will earn $1.50 a share in the year
ended June 1992, and $2.10 a share for the 12 months though
June 1993. Medco closed Friday at $80.50.