Law -- Legal Beat:
   Remark to Jury on Appeals Ruled
   Improper by State's Highest Court
   ----
   By Ellen Joan Pollock and Junda Woo
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
In criminal cases, defense lawyers usually remind jurors
that the defendant's fate is in their hands and that they
should be sure about their decision. Judges instruct jurors
to decide "beyond a reasonable doubt" whether a defendant is
guilty.
   In the Maryland case, in which a man was convicted of
assault and battery, the prosecutor told jurors that a guilty
verdict could be appealed but that a not-guilty vote was
final. This is typically true because, under double-jeopardy
rules, an acquitted defendant generally cannot be retried for
the same crime.
   Prosecutor Jeffrey L. Harding made the statement in the
context of telling jurors that public defender Elvira M.
White "wants to elevate reasonable doubt more than it is in
your minds." However, when the verdict is guilty, he
explained, it "is reviewed by the appellate {court} . . . And
the rights of the appeal go all the way up to the Supreme
Court."
   Mr. Harding, now in private practice in Upper Marlboro,
Md., said he felt the decision held defense lawyers and
prosecutors to different standards. "I felt a jury was
entitled to understand the true implications of a verdict,"
he said. "I think it's only fair to let them know the truth
about what happens in the judicial system and that there are
avenues of appeal available."
   John C. Jeffries Jr., a law professor at the University of
Virginia School of Law, compared the case to a 1985 U.S.
Supreme Court decision holding that a Death Row inmate had to
be resentenced because a judge had told jurors before the
sentencing that the sentence was bound to be appealed. The
high court found that the judge's comments "might encourage
the jury to pass the buck," said Mr. Jeffries.
   Mr. Jeffries added that the Maryland ruling, which applies
only to cases in that state, broadens the U.S. Supreme Court
decision because it addresses comments made by a prosecutor
rather than a judge and because the case wasn't a death
penalty case.
   (Johnson vs. State of Maryland, Court of Appeals of
Maryland, No. 69)
   ---
   TABLOID FAILS IN APPEAL of $1.5 million
invasion-of-privacy verdict.
   A U.S. district court judge in Fayetteville, Ark., upheld
the jury award against the Sun, a supermarket tabloid, for
invading the privacy of and causing extreme emotional
distress to a 96-year-old Arkansas woman.
   The article at issue, which ran with a photograph of the
Arkansas woman, told of a 101-year-old Australian newspaper
carrier impregnated by one of her customers. The photograph
identified the Arkansas woman as the newspaper carrier. The
Sun, owned by Globe International Publishing Inc. of Canada,
had argued at trial that its article couldn't be libelous
because nobody who knew the Arkansas woman believed it to be
true. The jury apparently accepted that argument when it
dismissed the libel claim in the case.
   In its appeal of the jury's award, the Sun contended that
the amount should be reduced. Among other things, the Sun
said the invasion-of-privacy claim was unfounded. A lawyer
for the Sun, Philip S. Anderson, said the tabloid will appeal
to a federal circuit court.
   (Nellie Mitchell vs. Globe International Publishing Inc.
d/b/a "Sun," U.S. District Court, Fayetteville, Ark., Civ.
No. 91-3001)
   ---
   NOVEL MARKETING IDEA lands Colcom International S.A. in
French court.
   The Paris-based concern introduced two years ago the
Korettie brand of moist, disposable hand towels of the kind
often handed out on airplanes. The packaging indicated that
the towels would deodorize, disinfect and even provide
protection against HIV, the virus that causes AIDS.
   That last claim was one too many for the Union Federale
des Consommateurs, a French consumer-protection group. Along
with two organizations representing AIDS victims, the union
recently filed a suit against Colcom, charging it with false
advertising. The three groups seek damages totaling 300,000
French francs ($53,000).
   The suit accuses Colcom of exaggerating the efficacity of
the towels against the virus and of misleading the public
about how AIDS is spread.
   Jean Neu, a lawyer representing Colcom, maintained that
the company had scientific support for its claim that a
chemical solution used in the towels is effective against the
virus in certain circumstances. He also said that Colcom
acted in good faith and didn't deliberately mislead the
public. But he said that he believed the company shouldn't
have included the anti-HIV claim and that it plans to change
the packaging.
   The court is due to render a judgment March 3.