South Korean Steelmakers Forecast
   Trade War Unless Pact Is Set With U.S.
   ----
   By Damon Darlin
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The trade group says U.S. makers are undercutting South
Korean producers and selling steel for less in South Korea
than in the U.S. About 611,000 tons of hot-rolled band
products was exported from the U.S. to South Korea last year.
   Although the association wouldn't say that the move would
be in direct retaliation to the dumping suits recently filed
in the U.S., the threat is clearly linked to the expiration
March 31 of the U.S. Voluntary Restraint Agreement on
imported steel. "If the VRA is terminated, then the U.S.
steel industry will file dumping suits against makers like
Korea," said Song Key-Oh, president of the Korean steel
group. "We are very nervous about that."
   Pohang Iron  Steel Co., South Korea's largest steel
maker, hasn't agreed to join the South Korean association's
planned dumping suits, however.
   President Bush has indicated he doesn't plan to extend the
import-limiting agreement. A multilateral steel agreement,
which seeks to remove government-subsidized steel and limit
dumping suits, was to replace the accord, but negotiations
for that have stalled.
   The U.S. dumping suits are troubling to South Korean
makers because the timing signals to them that more are to
come. "It is significant because these suits are filed as the
VRA nears conclusion," says a South Korean Trade Ministry
official. Under the rules of the accord, an exporting country
facing a dumping suit can suspend the VRA in the same
category as the alleged dumped product and export as much as
it wants. But the date at which South Korea can do that is
two days before the expiration of the accord. "That leaves us
no leverage in the anti-dumping action," says the official.
No dumping suits previously had been filed against South
Korean steelmakers since the VRA was signed in 1984.
   South Korea is a frequent target of dumping complaints by
other countries, but the government has recently taken to
using dumping suits itself to help defend its industries
against foreign competition. The South Korean trade group
says that U.S. hot-rolled bands, also known as coils, are
sold in South Korea at a price equivalent to $240 a metric
ton, while the product sells for $320 a metric ton in the
U.S. The product is used in pipes sold in the U.S. by South
Korean makers. A metric ton is about 2,204.6 pounds.
   U.S. producers filed suits in September against
manufacturers of standard steel pipe in six other countries,
including South Korea, and in November against South Korean
and Taiwanese makers of stainless steel welded pipe. South
Korean producers worry that suits will be filed soon against
South Korean makers of flat steel products. The U.S.
International Trade Commission made a unanimous preliminary
determination in both cases that dumping had occurred.
   South Korea filled only 53% of its 2.7 million metric ton
U.S. quota for steel products in 1991, according to South
Korean government statistics. In fact, because of a
construction boom in Seoul, the country was a net importer of
steel products, showing a trade deficit with all countries of
about two million metric tons.
   A South Korean Trade Ministry official says the government
favors the prompt signing of a multilateral steel agreement.
The crucial issue for South Korea is the inclusion of a
provision that limits the use of anti-dumping actions. "We
need a strong mechanism to curb the abuse of trade actions by
U.S. and European Community industries," he said.