Potomac Watch:
   Instead of Policy,
   Brady Offers
   A Tire-d Theory
   ----
   By Paul A. Gigot
Feb. 26, 1992
                                                                                                       

   How confident are Americans in the bald-tire theory of
economic recovery? Consider that Florida Sen. Connie Mack
received 130 calls of support the day after he called for
Nicholas Brady's resignation this week. The only discouraging
word came from Vice President Dan Quayle, who phoned to say
Mr. Mack was "not helpful."
   Mr. Mack was in fact very helpful, because he identified
an underlying cause of America's election-year gloom -- a
lack of faith in Washington's leadership. Even now that Mr.
Bush has begun to utter the right words about "growth," and
even with interest rates and inflation low, he and his
economic generals still inspire more unease than confidence.
Few trust that they'll have the will, or ability, to fight
back successfully against a partisan and irresponsible
Congress.
   The latest survey of "consumer confidence," widely
publicized this week, showed it the lowest since 1974. What
was not widely publicized is that the survey was taken in the
wake of Mr. Bush's disastrous trip to Japan. Americans might
begin to have more economic confidence if this administration
showed it had anyone to have confidence in.
   Mr. Mack's gesture is not, as some would have it, a
typical moderate-conservative GOP dust-up. The Washington
Post quoted one Bush "official," who claimed the "(Georgia
Rep. Newt) Gingrich-Mack wing" of the party is "never going
to be happy."
   Hmmm. Presumably this "wing" must include the 31% of
Republicans in South Dakota who preferred "uncommitted" over
George Bush this week. Perhaps it also includes the 20% who
said in exit polls they wouldn't vote for Mr. Bush even in
November. Perhaps Mr. Bush's aides believe they should have
run attack ads against Mr. Uncommitted.
   The real GOP fault line is between those who want to lead,
and fight if need be, and those who don't. Mr. Brady is in
the party's passiv-ist wing. The frustration with Mr. Brady,
and by extension Mr. Bush, runs throughout the Republican
business community. Mr. Mack even received congratulatory
calls from two of Mr. Bush's most prominent Florida
supporters. Many financial donors from 1988 are holding onto
their wallets.
   Lawrence Kudlow, an economist for Bear Stearns on Wall
Street, says that, "Rightly or wrongly, there are a lot of
people in the United States who think Nick Brady just hasn't
been much of a leader, either on capital gains or on the
economy."
   Mr. Brady at least has a flair for metaphor. In addition
to his bald-tire theorem, he has a light-bulb hypothesis. "We
have light bulbs around," the president's good friend told
the National Association of Business Economists. "And that
level of light bulb accumulation per family in the United
States over the last two or three years has reached a level
which is traditionally its low, and it's going to turn around
again. . . ."
   Between light bulbs and Mr. Bush's sock purchase at J.C.
Penney, the boom must be on.
   A year ago Mr. Brady was spooked over Democratic attacks
on "fairness"; now he frets about the risks of bold
presidential action. On Monday at the White House, Texas Rep.
Tom DeLay and other members of the House GOP Study Committee
urged Mr. Bush to use his executive authority to index
capital-gains for inflation, as some lawyers have argued he
has the power to do. Mr. Brady kept quiet while Mr. Bush was
in the room, but later replied with a legalistic argument
about why it just couldn't be done.
   In the same spirit, he let his Treasury gnomes load Mr.
Bush's initial "growth" bill with message-muddling gimmicks
and new taxes. Pat Buchanan attacked one of them in an ad in
New Hampshire, and is now attacking another one (which would
force churches to report donations to the IRS) in Georgia.
Mr. Brady also urged a weak capital-gains tax cut because
he's never believed it matters very much. Mr. Mack says this
indifference, as well as anger in Florida, is finally what
pushed him to go public.
   Part of Mr. Brady's problem is that he's from the GOP's
corporate, not its entrepreneurial, wing. He seems to believe
the criticism that the 1980s were largely a decade of excess
and debt. Instead of talking about "incentives" for growth
and the punishing cost of capital, Mr. Brady frets about
"overborrowing." This is supposed to reignite confidence?
   Mr. Bush isn't likely to replace his old friend; and even
if he did, many Republicans wonder if Mr. Bush would appoint
anyone better. Budget Director Richard Darman, who covets the
job, would thrill more Democrats than Republicans. Some GOP
insiders hope simply to combat the Treasury's counsel by
feeding arguments to Mr. Bush through other sources.
   If that doesn't work, maybe Americans should propose a
deal: If Mr. Bush will start to lead, then we'll all go out
and buy a new set of radials.