Brambles to Buy
   Environmental
   Systems Co.
   ----
   By Robert Tomsho
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The move ends a long struggle for control of the hazardous
waste management company. It also provides a solid base for
U.S. expansion for Bramble USA's parent company, Sydney-based
Brambles Industries Ltd. With annual revenue of $2.2 billion,
the industrial services concern already has extensive waste
management operations in Australia and Europe.
   "Brambles has made it quite clear that they want to be a
major player in the waste industry world-wide," said Ed
Cabrera, an industry analyst with The Principal/Eppler,
Guerin  Turner in Houston. "Environmental Systems is going
to be used as their crown jewel in the United States."
   Brambles USA executives did not return calls seeking
comment about the agreement, which calls for Brambles to
begin a tender offer this week. The offer is subject to
certain conditions, including that Brambles receive enough
shares to own at least a majority of the outstanding stock.
   Brambles USA already owns about 3.1 million of
Environmental's 15.9 million shares outstanding, as well as a
warrant to buy 2.1 million additional shares.
   Environmental said its financial adviser, Goldman Sachs 
Co., had deemed the $17.50 a share offer to be a fair one.
But several industry analysts said the company could have
fetched a higher price considering the political difficulties
of finding locations for new hazardous waste facilities. In
addition, Environmental's new management has made progress in
writing off unprofitable investments, concentrating on its
core business and refurbishing the company's primary
hazardous waste treatment facility in El Dorado, Ark.
   "It's way cheap," said Harry Blount, an analyst with
Rauscher Pierce Refsnes in Dallas. "It should have been $20
{a share}."
   Environmental Systems was badly in need of cash when
Brambles USA acquired its initial 19.8% stake for $60 million
in early 1989. The Arkansas concern subsequently rejected a
Brambles bid to buy the remaining shares for $14 each and the
two sides battled in court. Meanwhile, Environmental also
became embroiled in a failed struggle to open a new facility
in Arizona.
   For its fiscal year ended Oct. 31, Environmental Systems
reported a net loss of $671,000, or 27 cents a share, after a
$9.4 million charge for an accounting adjustment and a $4.4
million loss from discontinued operations. Revenue was $138.6
million.
   In late composite trading Friday on the New York Stock
Exchange, Environmental Systems shares were quoted at $17.25,
up 75 cents a share.