Labor Letter:
   A Special News Report on People
   And Their Jobs in Offices,
   Fields and Factories
   ----
   By Albert R. Karr
The merged union's executive committee counters by voting
to put the licensed division into trusteeship; President
Clayton DeFries says the dissidents acted illegally.
Delegates to a special convention that he called decided to
give union members a second chance to vote on the merger, but
the dissidents say the convention was rigged.
   Heads of five other maritime unions, including the
Seafarers and the Masters, Mates  Pilots, back the
dissidents against the union leaders' "insidious activities."
                                                                                                       

   LONGER HOURS, not pay rises, boost most families' income.
   A Joint Economic Committee staff study shows that adults
in 80% of two-parent American families with children worked
more hours in 1989 than in 1979, but that their incomes
didn't rise commensurately. Using Census Bureau data, the
study showed that real hourly pay, adjusted for inflation,
fell for husbands in 60% of the families over the decade.
   While real hourly pay of wives rose for most families, the
decline in husbands' pay was greater than their wives' wage
increases for 60% of families. Only families in the top 20%
of the income hierarchy had "clear gains in their standard of
living." A 13% rise in hours by wives did more to sustain
family incomes than any increases in their hourly pay;
husbands' hours rose 2%.
                                                                                                       

   `PAY-OR-PLAY': Many employers would rather switch than
fight.
   Chrysler Corp. would drop its health insurance for
employees and instead pay into a public pool for uninsured
people if the proposed tax costs less than the amount --
nearly 17% of payroll -- Chrysler spends on health coverage.
Bills pushed by many Democrats would let companies pay taxes
of 7% or 9% of payroll in lieu of direct coverage.
   An Urban Institute study concludes that employers would
shift 35% of workers they currently cover to the public plan.
CodeAlarm, whose health costs total 7% of payroll, would be
"tempted" to switch. Southern California Edison, with a 12%
tab, would consider it. But Bethlehem Steel and Hughes
Aircraft say they probably would keep their health plans
because they could give workers better coverage.
   Employer medical costs averaged 9.9% of payrolls in 1990;
manufacturers' costs averaged 11.6%, according to a Chamber
of Commerce survey.
                                                                                                       

   STARTING TOMORROW, North Adams (Mass.) State College will
permit up to 60 unemployed residents of the town, which has
an 11% jobless rate, to fill empty classroom seats for free.
They can take speaking, writing, computer, or other classes
that help them bone up on weak job skills, or even philosophy
or literature.
                                                                                                       

   PAY MISMATCH: Salaries and bonuses for biotechnology
executives rose as much as 39% in 1991, though losses climbed
283%, says Strategic Compensation  Research Associates. And
despite a severe real-estate recession, top executives in
residential mortgage banking and other real-estate-oriented
firms enjoyed compensation rises of up to 15% in 1991, says
consultant Ferguson Partners.
                                                                                                       

   RISING PESSIMISM about the economic outlook trims some
sails. Now, 73% of chief executives from fast-growing,
smaller firms report they're hiring. That's down from 75%
three months earlier, according to a survey of 210 chief
executives by consultant Coopers  Lybrand. Those cutting
staff rose to 7% from 2%.
                                                                                                       

   A BETTER WORK FORCE emerges from the recession, firms say.
   Workers are "living in the real world now," says Robert
Brown, an official of Uno Restaurant Corp., Boston; he says
they're more committed and don't push for wage increases as
much. Northeast Federal, a Hartford, Conn., financial holding
firm, says employees are more willing to make pay sacrifices
to help turn the company around, and they know "good times
don't go on forever."
   Teradyne, a Boston manufacturer of semiconductor testers,
says workers took a wage deferral "generally well." Enserch
Corp., Dallas, says employees trust management more and
better understand cuts in retiree medical benefits. In a
survey of 100 employers by Challenger, Gray  Christmas, a
Chicago placement firm, 34 cited greater productivity as the
chief recession gain; others cited fewer sick days taken,
more interest in adding job skills and less absenteeism.
   But Intel, Pacific Gas and Electric and Wells Fargo see no
recent change in worker attitudes.
                                                                                                       

   THE CHECKOFF: Try, try again: Some 9,400 former air
traffic controllers who joined the 1981 Patco strike file a
lawsuit once again, charging the government's indefinite ban
on rehiring them is unconstitutional. . . . Commenting on a
Sears, Roebuck plan to lay off 7,000 employees, comedian Jay
Leno says, "When I go to Sears, I have a hard time finding
one employee."