Dutch Cabinet
   To Consider
   Submarine Sale
   ---
   Proposed Deal With Taiwan
   Linked to Disappointing
   Trade Level With China
   ----
   By Bob Hagerty
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The Dutch cabinet is due to discuss today whether to grant
a license for a proposed sale of Dutch-built submarines to
Taiwan's navy. Dutch politicians say it's unlikely that the
government will allow the sale as originally envisioned by
Taiwan. But they say Taiwan might be allowed to buy certain
submarine parts.
   The order would go to Rotterdamsche Droogdok Maatschappij
BV, or RDM, a Rotterdam unit of Begemann Groep NV, a
conglomerate based in Breda, the Netherlands. An RDM
spokesman said Taiwan has expressed interest in buying four
submarines initially and taking an option on six more. RDM
hopes that it might be allowed to sell submarines stripped of
torpedo launchers and other military gear.
   Hollandse Signaalapparaten, or HSA, a unit of France's
Thomson-CSF S.A., would supply radar equipment for the
submarines, according to Dutch press reports. A spokesman for
HSA said the company wouldn't comment before the cabinet
decision is announced.
   For RDM, the proposed sale is crucial. The Dutch Navy two
years ago reduced its order for submarines to four from six.
The final sub is due to be launched in April. RDM has no
further orders on its books, unless the Taiwan deal goes
through. The company, which was sold by the Dutch government
to Begemann last year, employs about 600 people in its
submarine division.
   A decade ago, a Dutch sale of submarines to Taiwan
infuriated China, which retaliated by reducing its diplomatic
relations with the Netherlands and expelling a Dutch
journalist. In 1984, the two countries patched things up with
the agreement to ban Dutch sales of weaponry to Taiwan. As
part of the agreement, both sides agreed to promote trade
between the two countries.
   Dutch officials say China hasn't lived up to the trade
promise, putting the entire pact into question. Although
Dutch exports to China spurted to 811 million guilders
($447.7 million) in 1985 from 540 million guilders in 1984,
they have dwindled since then, according to the Dutch
Economic Affairs Ministry. It estimates that the exports
totaled just over 400 million guilders last year.
   China recently made clear to the Dutch that it would
strongly oppose any sale of submarines to Taiwan. But a
senior member of Dutch Prime Minister Ruud Lubber's Christian
Democrat party said there are signs that China might assuage
the Dutch by trying harder to boost imports from the
Netherlands.
   A resolution to the issue hinges partly on how the 1984
pact is interpreted. Some Dutch officials argue that the pact
shouldn't preclude the sale of submarines stripped of
military gear. They say such a sale shouldn't be considered
any more offensive to China than France's sale of frigates to
Taiwan last year.