Corporate Focus:
   Cyprus Minerals Changes Strategy, Returns to Basics
   ---
   Company Refocuses on Copper and Coal
   After 5 Years of Diversification
   ----
   By Marj Charlier
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
After struggling with a myriad of mineral and metal
ventures that didn't pan out, Cyprus says it is returning to
basics and concentrating on copper and coal. "We're going to
refocus on our core businesses," said Calvin A. Campbell Jr.,
Cyprus's chairman, when he was named to the additional posts
of president and chief executive officer two weeks ago,
succeeding Chester B. Stone, who retired suddenly in January.
   The change in strategy comes none too soon if Mr. Campbell
is to rescue the company's reputation as a shining example of
the rejuvenation of the U.S. mining industry. Spun off from
Amoco Corp. in July 1985, the company overcame high labor and
operating costs, low-quality mines and a dependence on a big
contract with troubled LTV Corp. to report record profit of
$164.9 million in 1989. But since then, rising costs,
declining ore grades, aging facilities and some hurried
acquisitions have eroded earnings quarter after quarter.
   Recent efforts to streamline costs and unload
underperforming assets haven't been enough. Cyprus's copper
production costs have crept higher, to 80 cents a pound in
1991 from 70 cents a pound in 1989. Attempts to convert small
zinc and gold operations into large, viable businesses have
failed, leaving those operations with high overhead. And
troubled acquisitions have required big write-offs. "Whenever
they seem to be resolving the problem, another problem comes
in," says Vahid Fahti, analyst with Kemper Securities Group
Inc., Pittsburgh.
   As a result, some observers believe Mr. Stone's surprise
retirement after less than a year at the helm wasn't entirely
voluntary. Although the company says the move was Mr. Stone's
decision, the swift departure indicated the board was eager
for a speedier turnaround. The directors believe the company
needs a clearer long-term focus, leaner operations and more
accountability from lower-level managers, Mr. Campbell said
in a recent interview. Mr. Stone couldn't be reached for
comment.
   Some analysts support this strategy. "The company now has
to move from making acquisitions to internal growth," said
Anthony Rizzuto, analyst at First Boston Corp. "It's not
going to be able to diversify its way out of its problems."
Nonetheless, Mr. Rizzuto lowered his opinion on the stock to
hold from buy, citing concern about its short-term prospects.
   Even with the management change, a turnaround isn't likely
to occur this year. In 1991, Cyprus' net income fell 61% to
$42.7 million from $111 million in 1990, including a $26
million write-down on the sale of its talc unit to RTZ Corp.
Revenue fell 10% to $1.68 billion from $1.87 billion. The
company is predicting 1992 will be even worse because it
won't be able to refine copper concentrates until June, when
it finishes rebuilding its copper smelter, which caught fire
last November. "It ain't going to be a good year," Mr. Stone
said in summing up the situation in an interview just before
his resignation.
   The troubles are quite a change for Cyprus, which enjoyed
a few heady years after the spinoff. Back then, the company
quickly collected some 20 bargain-basement acquisitions,
including copper mines, smelters and copper-rod plants that
others didn't want, and turned the castoffs into good
producers. The first $500 million in acquisitions has already
returned about $700 million in profits, some analysts
estimate. Meanwhile, the company improved its labor contracts
and labor relations and sold off some poorly performing coal
properties and other assets.
   But some of Cyprus's later acquisitions outside the copper
area defied the company's apparent Midas touch. A Tonapah,
Nev., molybdenum property acquired in 1988 proved to have
lower grades of ore than the company expected, which became
particularly problematic when molybdenum prices fell. A coal
mine at Kanawah, W.Va., bought in 1989, had several problems,
including deeper coal seams than anticipated. The company
wrote down the value of both in 1990, for a charge of about
$65 million. "They weren't always sufficiently careful in
these later acquisitions," says Kenneth Friedman, an analyst
at R.G. Dickinson  Co., Denver.
   Also plaguing the company have been weak metals prices:
zinc prices have fallen 33% in four years; molybdenum is down
32%. Copper prices declined to $1.06 a pound in 1991 from
$1.20 in 1990.
   Some analysts have reported long lists of challenges for
the company, including finding more reserves, lowering costs
and getting out of unprofitable businesses. But other
analysts aren't all negative: Stronger prices would minimize
Cyprus's high-cost disadvantage, says Mr. Friedman, who
thinks metals prices will rise as the U.S. and world
economies improve. In addition, says Peter Ingersoll of
Shearson Lehman Bros. Inc., the rebuilt copper smelter could
significantly lower costs, and the company has invested
heavily in equipment that has increased productivity at its
coal operations, readying them for a time when prices rise
again.
   Mr. Campbell isn't going to wait for rising prices to pull
Cyprus out of its doldrums, though. A former Exxon executive,
he left his most recent post as president of Chicago-based
Goodman Equipment Co., a mining-equipment manufacturer, to
run Cyprus. He has been on the board since the spinoff in
1985 and was named chairman in May 1990 when Kenneth Barr
retired as president and chairman at Cyprus's mandatory
retirement age of 65.
   Mr. Campbell says the company's most immediate problem is
getting costs under control. That will require "reductions in
people and things," he said, declining to elaborate on how
many jobs would be eliminated or what might be sold. The gold
operations, which many mining experts thought would be sold
first, won't go, he said. He said he couldn't comment on
whether the company's molybdenum, zinc or iron ore operations
will stay.
   One thing that's certainly destined for cuts is corporate
staff. To trim costs, Mr. Campbell said he will decentralize
Cyprus, leaving fewer people in the new Denver office
building and making mine managers more accountable for
operating results. "We're going to be taking a tougher
approach than we had," said Gerald Malys, chief financial
officer.
   Another priority: improving marketing with better customer
service. Every sales contract will be examined to determine
if there are better delivery schedules, different payment
plans, new packaging or other changes that customers would
like. "You aren't just selling a ton of coal," Mr. Campbell
said. "You're selling a whole relationship."
   Meanwhile, the company will focus its $18 million
exploration effort this year on finding additional copper and
coal reserves, and it is ready to spend the money to acquire
the right properties. New copper reserves will probably come
from outside of the U.S., he said, and the company is
currently looking at a large coal deposit in Venezuela, Mr.
Campbell said.
   Cyprus needs higher-grade copper ore reserves to help
reduce production costs, and the company needs to at least
double its coal production in order to be cost-competitive,
he said. "Cyprus spent its early years being very, very
clever in spotting a good deal," he said. Likewise, "we want
to be fortuitous now."
   ---
            Cyprus Minerals Co. by the Numbers
                                                                                                       

                     The Fundamentals
                                                                                                       

                                       1991      1990
                                                                                                       

   SALES ($ bil.)                     $1.68     $1.87
   NET INCOME ($ mil.)               $42.70   $111.00
   EARNINGS PER SHARE                 $0.72     $2.38
                                                                                                       

   MAJOR PRODUCT LINES:
                                                                                                       

   Commodity producer of copper rod and cathodes, gold,
molybdenum, coal, zinc, lithium and iron ore.
                                                                                                       

   MAJOR COMPETITORS:
                                                                                                       

   Asarco Inc., Phelps Dodge Corp., Magma Copper Co. and RTZ
Corp.'s Kennecott Corp.