LEISURE  ARTS:
   New Venturi Museum a Hit in Northwest
   ----
   By David Littlejohn
Designed first but completed second, Seattle's museum has
several elements in common with the Sainsbury Wing. In
London, Mr. Venturi played exterior games with classical
orders and disappearing arches. In Seattle, he appliqued a
cartoon-like first-floor level of hiccuping arches and peaks
that starts at the narrow front entrance, rounds a corner
curve, climbs jerkily up the hill, and ends by slipping over
an undistinguished entrance at the second floor rear. All of
this is made of rosy-brown granite encrusted with oddball
insets of carnival-color tiles and terra cotta. Halfway up
the University Avenue hill, it is enfronted by skinny pairs
of black columns with Egyptian capitals under a Moorish arch,
surrounding doors that apparently never open. Above this flat
fun-fair arcade rise three to four stories encased in
vertically striated gray limestone. The museum's name is
carved around the top in giant Roman letters.
   The most popular public space in the Venturi London wing
is an unnecessarily grand staircase that marches broadly up
several levels from the low Trafalgar Square entrance. Behind
the glitzy hillclimbing south facade in Seattle rises a
similar Grand Stairway, similarly lightwashed from high
window walls, similarly crested by useless "Oriental" arches,
flat wood sandwiches painted mustard yellow on their uphill
sides, bright red-orange as you descend.
   The Grand Stairway, echoed by an identical set of outdoor
steps on the other side of the glass (for what reason I'm not
sure) is something of an anomaly. At the moment, all it does
is carry visitors from the front door of the museum (off a
high and spacious gray foyer, with curving walls and randomly
placed fat columns, are located the inevitable gift shop and
cinematheque) to the back door, or vice versa. As in London,
a small cafe opens off the central landing. Six wonderful
Ming Dynasty Chinese statues from the old museum -- two
camels, two heroes, two tigers-parade up the center. There is
a large space for temporary exhibits on the second level, but
nothing is scheduled to occupy it until March 5. So having
climbed the 44 steps of this lavish architectural gesture,
the visitor must either seek out the hidden elevators, or
wind his way up narrow, enclosed fire stairs to the two
permanent exhibition levels above.
   These are great. If not quite as serene and magnificent as
the Sainsbury Wing's (for one thing, they depend on messy
ceiling tracks full of hundreds of spotlights, in place of
London's filtered daylight), they offer some of the same
cross-gallery surprises, enticing the visitor to leap across
continents and centuries. As in London, they make impeccable
use of wood for polished floors, neat display cabinets and
alcoves, for wainscots and moldings and entry surrounds.
   Each of the two permanent exhibition levels is divided by
a wide, gently bending central corridor, stopped at its east
and west ends by dazzling floor-to-ceiling walls of glass.
The inward-curving, finely detailed window walls to the west
overlook rooftops and freeway to the blue (more often gray)
waters of Puget Sound. At this end, on both floors, are
located seating alcoves and glazed "educational resource"
rooms with that wonderful view.
   On the third floor, north of the corridor, open up the
most popular and spectacular galleries, which house the
museum's prize collections of Northwest Indian and African
art, most of it donated (respectively) by John Hauberg and
Katherine White. The first room, "held up" by mammoth 1907
carved-log, totem-type houseposts from British Columbia, is
filled with fierce carven monster masks, which loom at you
from a mirror-moated central island and around the walls. The
rest of this impressive collection ranges from a great 1830
painted screen to a cedar-bark dress woven in 1985.
   Even more breathtaking is the collection of African art,
displayed with ingenuity, high drama and an attempt, at
least, at respect for its origins. In the central
"masquerade" gallery, two dozen masks (some four or five feet
high, and intricate beyond belief) dance about a projecting
semicircular stage. Magnificent carved figures stand on a
concave table opposite the stage, or rise on steps in deeply
carved niches in the curving walls.
   Opposite these collections are aligned four galleries
rather sparsely furnished with the art of Islam, Korea, Japan
and China. (Seattle owns a great deal more impressive Asian
art, much of which will be displayed in the original 1932
museum in Volunteer Park when its renovation is complete next
year.)
   On the floor above, the museum is showing its first-rate
collection of big works by post-World War II American
celebrity painters (one of each), excellently displayed in
high, wide spaces. Another room is devoted to non-tribal
Northwestern art, although other cities seem to have nabbed
better works by local painters such as Mark Tobey and Morris
Graves. The 19th- and early-20th-century collections are a
bit thin (a good Winslow Homer, an erotic Rodin, respectable
samples of Vuillard, Kirchner, Jawlensky, Pollock, Still,
Giacometti, De Kooning); but intelligent wall labels manage
to convert even second-class examples into an education in
the history of art. The sparkling blues of an 1893 Oliver La
Farge art glass window, specially built into one end wall,
are visible through several rooms.
   The SAM makes the most of its random and unspectacular
collection of pre-modern European art by means of flawless
placement and lighting (it's amazing how much better minor
works of art look when well displayed); by a sympathetic
architectural setting; and by more of those wonderfully
informative labels. For a prize Tiepolo ceiling from Vicenza
(remounted on canvas), the architects designed a
quasi-baroque setting. The Kress Foundation donated 37 lesser
old masters to Seattle in 1961; local collectors have given
some good Greek and Roman bits, a few elegant European
decorative works and much fine 18th-century china, which is
displayed to unusual advantage. But none of it is as exciting
as the African halls.
   Eventually, one of Jonathan Borofsky's "Hammering Men" (he
has smaller brothers elsewhere) will rise, steely blue and 48
feet high, before the front entrance. He would be there now,
except that he fell out of his sling, all 11 tons of him, as
a crane was lifting him into place last September. He broke
his hammering arm, which is now being reset in Connecticut.
   (See related letter: "Letters to the Editor: `Lesser' Old
Masters Are Still Old Masters" -- WSJ March 16, 1992)
   920225-0139