House Rules:
   Why Laura Mae Cole,
   Married for 46 Years,
   Left Her Loving Mate
   ---
   Bureaucrats Decided She Was
   Too Frail to Stay in Home
   She and Husband Shared
   ---
   Which Is Better: Safe or Free?
   ----
   By Michael J. McCarthy
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Then last summer, Mrs. Cole, who suffered from chronic
heart problems, became bedridden. Under Florida law, that
meant she couldn't stay at Dora Oaks any longer. For
fire-safety and health reasons, Florida prohibits the very
frail or bedfast from staying in retirement homes, which are
licensed to help tenants mostly with routine chores like
grooming, taking medicine and perhaps cooking. In July, state
health officials ruled that Mrs. Cole must move to a nursing
home, where more highly skilled medical care would be
available.
   It seemed unlikely that Mr. Cole would be able to join
her. A middle-class man who had outlived his retirement
savings, he might not have been frail enough to qualify for
government-subsidized nursing-home care; he certainly
couldn't afford to pay the $78-a-day bill himself.
   For the first time since exchanging vows at the end of
World War II, the Coles faced separation.
   The Coles' troubling tale, pitting well-meaning but
perhaps overly rigid bureaucrats from the Florida state
health department against the Coles, the couple's doctor and
their landlady, illustrates one of the most delicate issues
of old age: How long should people be allowed to live where
they choose, even if that choice could jeopardize their
safety or health?
   Some 30 states currently prohibit elderly people from
remaining in retirement homes once they become bedridden.
Without adequate staff to help evacuate, residents might
perish in fires. Moreover, long stays in bed can lead to
bedsores and other maladies best treated, or prevented, in
nursing homes or hospitals. "You try to find the correct
level of care for someone and try to balance that against
what people feel is their own home," says Susan Hall, the
supervisor for the health department's regional licensing
office who oversaw Mrs. Cole's case.
   A growing number of elderly and their advocates are
calling for rules that would allow more "aging in place."
"What we have done is regulated to the worst-case scenario,"
says Mary Ellen Early, public policy director for the Florida
Association of Homes for the Aging, a trade group. Among
other things, we need to "consider waivers in extenuating
circumstances."
   As the nation's population ages, and retirement benefits
become less certain, the chorus is likely to get louder. Even
the state of Florida is now trying to loosen its restrictions
so the elderly can stay longer in retirement homes with
special licenses. But for many people nationwide, the rules
don't bend.
   In the Coles' case, Jean Holman, the administrator of the
Dora Oaks retirement home, decided to fight the state
bureaucracy. Mrs. Holman fired off a letter to Gov. Lawton
Chiles, begging him to intervene. The governor wrote back,
saying, "I realize that separating this couple could be
traumatic for them, and I certainly would like to keep them
together, if at all possible."
   Despite that promising sentiment, the governor sent the
Coles' case back to the state bureaucracy.
   The Coles met for the first time in 1939 at First Baptist.
Laura Mae Davis, the petite daughter of a Mount Dora
orange-grove worker, took a fancy to Andrew Cole, the
handsome son of a Mississippi farmer. After a lengthy
courtship -- their first date was in church -- they married
in May 1945.
   A few years later, Mrs. Cole and her husband moved into
her parents' house, a two-bedroom clapboard bungalow at 961
E. Liberty Street. Over the next 40 years, the Coles lived
there, simply. They never traveled far, never drank, never
owned an air conditioner despite the sweltering Florida
summers. One block from the house, they built Cole's Grocery
Store and a shoe shop in the early 1950s. They paid their
bills and donated to the church weekly. They raised a son,
James, who died at age 43 from a rare disease. They
eventually sold the stores and their white Dodge Dart,
leaving them with very little besides their modest savings
and their tiny, ramshackle house.
   "They could have been very bitter, but they had each
other. That's what made life so happy for them," says the
Rev. Bob Walker, pastor of First Baptist.
   The Coles became close friends with their younger
neighbors, Robert and Ruby Grantham. The Coles, by now both
in their 80s, eagerly awaited Fridays, when the Granthams
would drive them to a restaurant for dinner at 6 p.m.
Occasionally, the Granthams would peek out in their driveway
around 5:30, only to spot the Coles already waiting in the
back seat of the car. "They were very punctual," says Mrs.
Grantham.
   The Coles loved their town. Spanish moss dangled from the
oak and palm trees lining the streets of Mount Dora, a town
of 7,200 in the citrus fields 25 miles northwest of Orlando.
In Mount Dora, divorce was still frowned on, the fast-food
industry was a corner Dairy Queen, and one of the hottest
local issues was whether to remove some shuffleboard courts
from the downtown park.
   For the Coles, it was a perfect place to grow old -- until
the winter of 1989, when it became apparent they could no
longer manage by themselves. Their house was falling apart.
The kitchen floor had sunk so deep they had to cover one spot
with plywood to keep the refrigerator balanced and running.
Rats and roaches crawled about. Mrs. Cole, too weak to keep
house, frequently rocked on the front porch in soiled
dresses. But, says Mr. Grantham, "For them it was home; it
was as good as a castle."
   Mrs. Cole didn't want to leave her home. But with the
Granthams' help, Mr. Cole eventually persuaded his wife that
they couldn't stay on Liberty Street. They sold the old
house, and in January 1990 moved into the Dora Oaks
Retirement Home, a rambling 16-room, yellow-frame house that
sits in the shade of grand oak trees.
   The Coles, who paid monthly rent of $750 apiece from their
savings, lived there with about 25 others, who shared meals,
watched TV together in the living room and sat on the front
porch.
   On the windows in their room, Mrs. Cole placed lacy pink
curtains. Over their twin beds, she hung their wedding
portrait and a small, laminated print of Leonardo da Vinci's
"Last Supper." It took her months to adjust, but one day she
finally declared, "This is our home now."
   Within months, though, Mrs. Cole's health began failing.
That March, she was rushed to the hospital and treated for
two weeks for ailments that included congestive heart
failure. In December, she went back to the hospital after a
stroke. Walking became strenuous, and she spent more time
sitting in bed or in her tan La-Z-Boy. As aides at Dora Oaks
bathed, dressed and fed her, Mrs. Cole told them tales about
Jesus and gave them her cornbread and biscuit recipes.
   Then, last May, some health inspectors arrived for an
annual inspection of Dora Oaks. Worried at what they saw,
they told Mrs. Holman, who runs the place, that Mrs. Cole
appeared too frail to be there, and should be in a nursing
home. In July, Mrs. Holman got a letter: Mrs. Cole had to be
out in 10 days.
   "I'm sorry she was inappropriate for the facility," one of
the inspectors, Roger Bourne, says. "I don't do anything that
I can't go before a judge and say, `All my i's are dotted,
and t's are crossed.'"
   Mrs. Holman was disturbed about the threatened breakup of
Mrs. Cole and her husband. She tipped off the Senior Citizens
News, a monthly newspaper in Orlando, which published a story
headlined "State Wants to Separate Elderly Mt. Dora Couple."
She also asked the Coles' doctor to examine Mrs. Cole and to
send his findings to the health officials. James F. Hannah,
their doctor for about eight years, filled out the
appropriate health-department form. Yes, she needed help
rising out of bed. Yes, she needed to be dressed. Yes, she
would need help evacuating in an emergency.
   But when it came to the last question -- legally, could
Mrs. Cole's needs be met in a home other than a medical or
nursing facility -- he left the boxes unchecked. Instead, Dr.
Hannah wrote a letter urging that Mrs. Cole be kept at Dora
Oaks, where her care was "exceptionally good." He also warned
that, despite her impairments, separating her from Mr. Cole
would lead her to "rapidly slip away."
   Says Dr. Hannah, "The whole thing seemed to violate my
sense of what is right ethically and morally."
   Meanwhile, Mrs. Holman, in a last-ditch effort, drafted
her appeal to the governor. Gov. Chiles wrote back, saying,
"I am quite sensitive to the need to balance rules and
regulations against Mrs. Cole's physical and emotional
needs." He turned the matter over to a Florida ombudsman
council, an advocate for the elderly in nursing and
retirement homes.
   The ombudsman council was concerned with Mrs. Holman's
track record. She has a reputation with state regulators as
something of a maverick, uncooperative when she thinks the
rules concerning elderly are unfair. And she admits she
sometimes bends them. Says the 57-year-old Mrs. Holman, who
has run retirement homes in Florida since 1980, "When it
comes to human life, I don't think everything should be done
by the rules."
   That attitude has gotten her into trouble. Last summer,
she was fined $4,000 by health officials for 16 violations,
ranging from a broken windowpane to failing to evict Mrs.
Cole. And in May, trouble erupted when Mary Irvin, who was
69, died while in the care of Mrs. Holman and her business
partner, Evelyn Yost. In November, the state charged Mrs.
Holman and Mrs. Yost with abusing and neglecting Mrs. Irvin.
And health department investigators say they're not through
yet.
   The lawyer for the two women says the charges are "trumped
up" and in "retaliation" for the Cole dispute. And Mrs.
Irvin's daughter, Rolanda Maas, says she wanted Mrs. Holman
to keep her mother as long as she could. "My mom was real
happy there," says Mrs. Maas.
   Combined with Mrs. Holman's fat file at the health
department, the incident helped persuade the ombudsman
council to uphold the earlier decision: Mrs. Cole had to go.
"This was a sick, sick lady," says Donna Highness of the
ombudsman council. "Her right to have proper treatment was
being denied."
   By late August, the health department had found a
nursing/retirement home that could accommodate both Mrs. Cole
and her husband, who was in fairly good physical shape. But
the facility was in Clermont, Fla., 25 miles from their
beloved Mount Dora and the Granthams. Mr. Cole signed consent
forms to move, but explained that he was unenthusiastic about
being so far from home. The department then focused on
Oakwood Nursing Center, about four miles away in Eustis, Fla.
   Mr. Cole debated whether to follow his wife, but in the
end decided not to. He didn't need a nursing home, he says.
He is still sharp, even recalling some of his old customers'
foot sizes from his shoe-sale days in the 1950s. The fire
chief, for example, wore a size 10. And he still enjoys bass
fishing at nearby Lake Dora. In a nursing home, he feared,
there would be no more of that. No more freedom. Nurses
telling him what to do. Medicines he might be forced to take.
"I'm walking around still," he says in his gravelly voice. "A
man would be different if he were down in bed."
   Mr. Cole recalls a meeting he had about his wife in their
room at Dora Oaks with a health department nurse in August.
"I didn't want her to go, but after talking to the nurse, she
said, `Whether you go or not, we're gonna take her.'"
   On the last Thursday of August, while Mr. Cole was at a
doctor's appointment, a van arrived unexpectedly to deliver
Mrs. Cole to Oakwood. Mr. Cole returned home to find her bed
empty. He walked past his wife's cross-stitched picture of
daisies hanging on the wall, with the message: "Some people
make the world brighter just by being there." The next day,
Mr. Cole visited his wife's new home: the Oakwood Nursing
Center, room 110 A.
   As he walked through the door, she greeted him. "There's
my man, he'll help me."
   She stirred a deep laugh from Mr. Cole when she told a
nurse's aide, "I don't have to love him, he's my husband."
Leaning over her bed, he laid his hand on her hospital gown
and began gently rubbing her shoulder. They talked for half
an hour, about church, their dentures and her sister in
Texas.
   "You'll be out soon and back over to Dora Oaks," he said.
   "Tell them I'm ready to get out now," she answered weakly.
   Mr. Cole bent down to kiss her, his aged back slowly
curving in slight, labored increments. He would be back
tomorrow, he said, with a warning: "Don't run around with no
men."
   As he left, she called out, "I miss you."
   Three weeks later, as the summer gave way to fall, Mrs.
Cole died. Mr. Cole was not there.
   At her memorial service, the Rev. Walker delivered her
eulogy, which he titled "From Prison to Paradise." Mr. Cole
had his wife's body cremated, and her ashes sprinkled over
her parents' graves at Mount Dora's Pine Forest cemetery. "I
miss her every day," says Mr. Cole, who wept privately for
days after her death. "I thought this was a free country, and
people could live where they wanted to."
   Dr. Hannah says he doesn't know if Mrs. Cole would have
lived longer had she remained at Dora Oaks. But, he wonders,
"If she'd stayed there three weeks longer, and died with her
husband, what's the harm?"