What's News --
   World-Wide
There have been gradations and variations since last week
in Clinton's account of his 1969 actions, and his latest
explanation still contains gaps and unanswered questions.
   ---
   U.N. chief Boutros-Ghali recommended the quick deployment
of an estimated 13,000 U.N. peacekeepers in Yugoslavia --
about 3,000 more than originally proposed. The Security
Council plans to meet next week to approve the
recommendation, and advance elements of the force could
arrive about two weeks later, a U.N. spokesman said.
   ---
   The EPA will allow resumption of the widespread use of a
class of popular but carcinogenic pesticides. The agency had
proposed banning most uses of the pesticides, but changed its
position after an industry-funded survey of grocery shelves
showed the health risk was less than indicated by crop tests.
   ---
   The Bureau of Reclamation is expected to announce severe
limitations today on how much irrigation water will go to
California farmers from federal dam systems this year,
according to people familiar with the bureau's plans. The
cuts are a result of California's drought, now in its sixth
year.
   ---
   Former Soviet republics were scheduled to begin a two-day
meeting in Minsk, Belarus, aimed at resolving military
disputes that threaten the future of the Commonwealth of
Independent States. Meanwhile, Secretary of State Baker
visited newly independent Tajikistan in an effort to forge
ties with Central Asia.
   ---
   Algeria braced for more clashes after Muslim
fundamentalists said they would defy a ban and stage a
protest march today in the capital. Authorities bolstered
security around police stations in Algiers and set up
roadblocks. Meanwhile, an Algerian navy sailor and two
fundamentalists were killed during fighting yesterday.
   ---
   A judge in California struck down a San Francisco law
mandating the safe use of video display terminals in the
workplace, saying such matters should be regulated by the
state. The law, enacted in late 1990, was the first city
ordinance in the U.S. aimed at reducing eyestrain and hand
and arm ailments suffered by workers.
   ---
   Czechoslovakia's Interior Ministry said 18 ex-Communists
committed treason during the Soviet-led invasion that crushed
democratic reforms in 1968. The list unexpectedly includes
Zdenek Mlynar, who helped found a human-rights movement in
the country. He is accused of meeting with a Soviet official
to discuss forming a post-invasion regime.
   ---
   Author Salman Rushdie declared in London that his three
years in hiding were a high enough price to pay for offending
Muslims and urged Britain to put pressure on Iran to lift a
death sentence against him. Tehran's 1989 death decree was
ordered against Rushdie for allegedly insulting Islam in his
book "The Satanic Verses."
   ---
   A Kashmiri militant leader called off a plan to storm a
cease-fire line that divides the disputed territory of
Kashmir between Pakistan and India, stepping back from a
confrontation that had already left 16 dead and hundreds
wounded in Pakistan.
   ---
   The U.S., Britain and France agreed on a draft U.N.
resolution imposing an air and arms embargo on Libya until it
hands over suspects in the bombing of Pan Am Flight 103 and a
French airliner, U.N. diplomats told the Associated Press.
The resolution also reportedly calls on U.N. members to
withdraw envoys from Libya.
   ---
   Maoist militants in India massacred at least 36
upper-caste males in the northern village of Bara, witnesses
and officials said. One survivor said 85 people were
beheaded. The slayings were in retaliation for the killing of
10 of the rebels' lower-caste supporters by upper-caste
landlords two months ago, according to authorities.