U.S. Protectionism Claims Canadian Casualties
   ----
   By Gordon Ritchie
And now, the two nations are squaring off on potentially
the most explosive dispute by far, Canadian exports of
softwood lumber to the U.S. Today, the Commerce Department is
scheduled to announce its preliminary determination of
whether or not Canadian softwood lumber is "subsidized," and
thus potentially subject to countervailing duties when
exported to the U.S.
   Softwood lumber exports became a major problem in 1986,
when the U.S. Department of Commerce claimed that imports
from Canada unfairly benefited from relatively low charges
for standing timber imposed by Canadian provincial
governments, who, under the Canadian Constitution, own
Canada's forests.
   The dispute was defused by a Memorandum of Understanding
that called for Canada to apply a 15% duty on softwood lumber
exports unless the provincial governments introduced higher
charges for use of the timber resources. Since 1986, the
major softwood-producing provinces, British Columbia and
Quebec, have introduced substantially higher charges, and the
export duties collected dropped to a small fraction of the
value of the lumber shipped south.
   As a result of these higher charges, the rising value of
the Canadian dollar and the declining housing market in the
U.S., Canadian lumber shipments to the United States dropped
significantly. Canada's market share has fallen to about 26%
from 33% in 1987. The Canadian government concluded that
whatever the situation had been in 1986, exports of softwood
lumber are demonstrably no longer subsidized, and, with a
shrinking market share, are not injuring American producers.
   Last October, after giving proper and legal notice, Canada
terminated the Memorandum of Understanding. With an election
year beginning in the U.S., and with foreign trading partners
easy scapegoats for the American recession, perhaps it was
unrealistic to expect a reasonable response from Washington.
But the overreaction that followed was unprecedented and
illegal, and has put the U.S. on a collision course with
Canada.
   A coalition claiming to represent the U.S. forest industry
persuaded more than 60 U.S. senators to press the Bush
administration for a strong response to the Canadian action.
Casting aside its principled free-trade stance, the
administration is dancing to the industry's tune. The Bush
administration took the unprecedented step in October of
itself initiating a countervailing duty case against Canadian
lumber, instead of waiting for the U.S. forest industry to
make its case, thus bringing the case it would adjudicate.
   Still not satisfied, the administration invoked the
draconian provisions of Section 301 of the Omnibus Trade Act
of 1988 -- often brandished but never used against either
Japan or Europe -- to impose customs liabilities on Canadian
lumber, even before any preliminary determinations of injury
or subsidy were made. This action clearly violates American
obligations under the General Agreements on Tariffs and Trade
and the Free Trade Agreement.
   In a further example of the kind of treatment that has
astonished America's Canadian friends, the Commerce
Department summarily refused to consider 323 of 334 routine
applications for duty exclusions filed by Canadian companies
unconnected with any program being investigated in the
softwood lumber case. The Commerce Department said it did not
have the time or the resources to consider the applications.
   In this year's highly charged political atmosphere, it
will take courage for the Commerce Department and the
International Trade Commission to decide in favor of Canadian
interests. If the two bodies rule against Canada, the matter
will be brought before the binational panels established
under the free trade agreement.
   The only other time these panels were required to examine
a major countervailing duty case -- a case involving imports
of pork from Canada -- the Canadian and American experts who
sit on them threw out the Commerce Department and
International Trade Commission determinations by unanimous
decisions on every count. Canada is confident that the same
thing will happen in the softwood lumber matter.
   Obviously fearing this result, senior officials in the
administration have hinted the U.S. may refuse to be bound by
the decision of the binational panels -- or may even refuse
to allow the case to go before them. This would be tantamount
to tearing up the Free Trade Agreement.
   It should be remembered that the Free Trade Agreement was
highly controversial in Canada. In fact, it nearly brought
down the government of Prime Minister Brian Mulroney. A
fierce electoral battle resulted in a narrow victory for the
belief that Canada could do honest business with the U.S. and
that the U.S. would live up to its international obligations.
   Recent American trade actions -- particularly in the case
of lumber -- have raised doubts about America's willingness
to honor its commitments and have provoked a rising tide of
criticism from Canadian government, industry and labor
leaders. The strongest criticism has come from those who most
strongly supported the Free Trade Agreement. Today, only one
Canadian in four believes the Free Trade Agreement has
worked. If the U.S. is unwilling to play by the rules
established under the agreement, even this limited support is
likely to evaporate.
   There is much more than lumber at stake in the lumber
dispute. The Bush administration must respect America's
obligations under the Free Trade Agreement by giving the
Canadian industry a fair hearing and abiding by the results
of the binational panel review. Canadians are asking no more.
They will accept no less.
   ---
   Mr. Ritchie, formerly Canadian ambassador to the U.S. and
deputy chief negotiator of the Free Trade Agreement, is an
adviser to the Canadian Forest Industries Council.