The Americas:
   Extend Free-Trade Accords Southward
   ----
   By Rafael Leonardo Callejas
The demands of competing in the global economy have
prompted the Central American countries to abandon the
state-dominated, protectionist economic models of the past in
favor of free markets, free trade and open investment.
   In Honduras, we have opened our market dramatically,
reducing import tariff rates from a maximum of 135% in 1989
to a current maximum of just 20%. Price subsidies have been
eliminated. Foreign-investment regulations are being
liberalized. Interest rates and the value of our currency are
now set in response to market forces. Government spending has
been brought under control: The fiscal deficit declined to an
estimated 4% of gross national product in 1991, from 9.2% of
GNP in 1989. Honduras is no longer in arrears on its
foreign-debt obligations. We are controlling inflation, and
our economy has resumed growth.
   By implementing adjustment policies, Central Americans are
demonstrating their determination to integrate themselves
into the global economy. To this end we have begun an
accelerated process of political cooperation and trade
liberalization within our own region. At the same time, we
are reaching out to our Caribbean neighbors to seek the
establishment of a partnership for prosperity. This movement
toward regional integration has been invigorated by the
Enterprise for the Americas Initiative (EAI) and the North
American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA).
   A hemispheric free-trade area, as envisioned by President
Bush, has captured the imagination of the region's leaders
and entrepreneurs, galvanizing efforts to take the necessary
steps to fulfill this shared vision. The inclusion of Mexico
in NAFTA will be a major step in cementing the initiative.
Our nations look forward to the opportunities presented by
Mexico's participation in NAFTA and to the trade and
investment growth that its expansion could well bring to our
region.
   Ten years ago, the U.S. developed the Caribbean Basin
Initiative (CBI) to stimulate economic growth and social
development through trade and investment. Expanded access to
the U.S. market has enabled us to increase our nontraditional
exports and improve our international competitiveness. Since
the CBI program began, the region has attracted approximately
$1.5 billion in new investment. However, it is hoped that
expanding NAFTA to include Mexico will stimulate additional
investment, allowing us to build on the progress that we have
made.
   However, to accomplish this it is first necessary to
ensure that the expanded NAFTA does not put the CBI countries
at a comparative disadvantage with Mexico in attracting trade
and investment. Consequently, as the NAFTA negotiations
proceed, a bridging mechanism for the CBI countries should be
developed. Such a mechanism would solidify the reforms
carried out thus far and strengthen the positive economic and
political trends taking place in the region.
   To heighten awareness of the region's concerns, our
countries have been engaged in a series of consultations,
resulting in the First Ministerial Conference for Central
America and the Caribbean, hosted by Honduras this weekend.
This conference brings together for the first time the
foreign-affairs and trade ministers of all countries in our
area. The conference will address these issues, strengthen
our growing ties and set forth an agenda for future
cooperation. The participants will try to identify
appropriate mechanisms to ensure equal access to the U.S.
market and allow us a level playing field in competing with
Mexican producers and in attracting foreign capital.
   In particular, access to the U.S. market for
nontraditional exports and for products not included under
the CBI (e.g., sugar, footwear, leather goods) would generate
substantial export earnings, strengthening economic growth in
our countries and creating export markets for American
companies and jobs for American workers.
   Through EAI and NAFTA, the U.S. has an historic
opportunity to consolidate the vision of a prosperous, stable
and democratic hemisphere. Open markets for goods, services
and investment are the basis of this vision. Honduras,
together with our sister nations in Central America and the
Caribbean, stands ready to meet this challenge.
   ---
   Mr. Callejas was elected president of Honduras in November
1989.