Credit Markets:
   Bonds Seem
   A Good Buy
   At 8% Yield
   ---
   With Rates Surging
   On Long Treasurys,
   Managers Like Them
   ----
   By Constance Mitchell
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
"A yield of 8% on a long-term bond will turn out to be an
attractive yield" in a year to two from now, said Thomas
Poor, a portfolio manager at Scudder, Stevens  Clark. "But
you have to take a long-term view," he said, because the bond
market could fall further or move in a volatile manner for a
while. His advice: "Buy bonds, then go to Tahiti for a year.
When you come back, you'll like what you see."
   John C. Bogle, chairman and chief executive of Vanguard
Group Inc., says that long-term bond yields, when adjusted
for inflation, have rarely been more attractive than they are
now. His favorites are double-A-rated utility bonds, which
currently have yields in excess of 9%. After adjusting for
inflation, which is running at about 3%, that amounts to an
inflation-adjusted yield of 6%.
   "I am a believer that at these levels . . . the returns on
bonds are about as high as you will see on the charts," Mr.
Bogle said. He notes that since the 1960s, inflation-adjusted
yields on long-term bonds have averaged about 4%. At the
current inflation level of about 3%, real yields now are
about 5%.
   Of course, most fixed-income money managers haven't done
such a hot job so far this year predicting the bond market's
distress. Most of the nation's biggest bond managers and many
analysts did warn that the first quarter of 1992 would be
tumultuous for bonds. And hardly anyone is expecting bonds in
1992 to come close to matching 1991 on a total return basis;
in 1991, most fixed-income accounts posted total returns in
excess of 16%. Total return includes interest income and
price appreciation.
   Managers also were right in expecting that the bond market
would get hit as Congress and the Bush administration
proposed a range of fiscal stimulus packages, which investors
worried would boost the already bloated federal deficit and
force the government to sell more notes and bonds, flooding
the market with more supply.
   But the bond market sell-off has been far steeper than
most big money managers had expected. The price of the
Treasury's benchmark 30-year bond, for example, ended at 99
5/32 on Friday, down from its high of 107 7/32 on Jan. 8, a
decline of about eight points. That translates into a loss of
about $80 for a bond with a $1,000 face amount. The yield,
after reaching a low of 7.39%, was quoted late Friday at
8.06%.
   Although these staggering declines have battered the big
bond dealers, they also have convinced money managers that
the market's next direction has to be up.
   "I'm fully invested; I am not running scared," said Robert
Andres, head of fixed-income investing at Martindale  Andres
Inc. In fact, he said, "this looks like a repeat of 1991,"
when interest rates on long-term Treasury bonds rose during
the first half of the year, then suddenly began to decline.
   ---
   Friday's Market Activity
                                                                                                       

   Bond prices continued to lose ground despite the release
of a better-than-expected inflation report.
   The Labor Department said that its producer price index, a
measure of inflation on the wholesale level, rose a scant
0.2% in February after a 0.3% decline in January.
   The bond market's bellwether security, the 30-year
Treasury bond, initially rallied as much as 3/4 point after
the government released the PPI report. The gain amounted to
about $7.50 for a bond with a $1,000 face amount.
   But the half-hearted rally fizzled for lack of
follow-through buying. By the end of the day, bonds had
slipped into negative territory. The 30-year Treasury bond
finished 1/4 point lower. The price was quoted late at 99
5/32 to yield 8.06%, compared with a price of 99 15/32 to
yield 8.04% the day before.
   Hardest hit were short-term securities, as more investors
and speculators decided to throw in the towel on the
possibility that the Federal Reserve will reduce interest
rates another notch.
   The biggest concern for bond investors is the mounting
evidence that the economy is gaining strength. That was
manifest in news Thursday of strong increases in retail sales
in February and January and reinforced Friday morning by the
release of data showing business inventories declined 0.4% in
January.
   The inventories report was taken as another sign that
demand is increasing, presaging a rise in production and
employment.
   "The market is fearing that the recent trend in consumer
spending is amounting to a resurgence in economic activity"
and will lead to "an acceleration in credit market pressures
and inflation," said William Sullivan, director of money
market research at Dean Witter Reynolds Inc.