LEISURE  ARTS:
   Bowyer Cries `Boo Hoo, Yew'
   ----
   By Susan G. Hauser
Mr. Adams has earned the right to be a little picky about
the way folks treat longbows. He is (as far as he knows) the
only full-time yew-wood longbow maker in the world. Mr. Adams
supplies English longbows to the English, not to mention the
French, the Americans, the Japanese and all the other peoples
to whom his well-earned reputation has spread. For more than
20 years, he has been stocking the arsenals of venerable
archery organizations such as England's Woodmen of Arden and
Scotland's Royal Company of Archers.
   Because yew supplies have dwindled or disappeared
altogether in other parts of the world, Mr. Adams, who lives
here near the foothills of the Cascade Mountains, has a
corner on the market. For him it's a relatively short drive
to one of the few remaining ranges of the Pacific yew tree,
which also grows in Washington state, Northern California and
parts of Idaho and Montana.
   Europe's yew trees were virtually wiped out several
centuries ago due to the voracious demand for bows to equip
medieval armies. During the Hundred Years' War, English
artisans were encouraged to turn out more and more longbows,
while able-bodied Englishmen were required to spend their
leisure hours practicing with the bow and arrow. Those caught
playing games, or otherwise frittering away their practice
time, were relieved of their heads.
   Such unfriendly time-management techniques paid off in the
end. Archers wielding yew-wood longbows saved the day for
England at famous battles at Crecy and Poitiers. Years later,
at Agincourt, 4,000 highly skilled English archers rained
deadly arrows on 65,000 French knights.
   "If it weren't for the bow and arrow," says Mr. Adams,
"we'd all be speaking French."
   Yew wood, he says, "is God's gift to the archer." It has a
natural lamination of stretchy white sapwood and springy red
heartwood. Native Americans of the Northwest Coast discovered
this fact long before Robin Hood.
   But until the gnarly little yew tree was discovered to be
a source of taxol, a cancer-fighting drug, about the only
modern folk who appreciated Taxus brevifolia were bowyers
like Mr. Adams, or fence builders, who admired the dense
wood's durability and resistance to rot. In addition, there
was some demand for the wood from Japan, where yew is used
for ceremonial toko poles placed outside of temples.
   A lot of the wood was wasted by loggers, who mowed down
the spindly trees while clear-cutting towering Douglas firs,
then burned them in slash piles. But Mr. Adams always managed
to find the occasional straight-grained yew high in the
mountains, above the 4,000-foot level.
   Just one in 300 or so trees meets the craftsman's exacting
standards. A day-long search might yield four or five trees
from which he can cut several yard-long staves that, after
they're cured for four years, can be joined together to make
a 6-foot bow. Mr. Adams still remembers the day he found one
tree from which he cut six staves.
   "I took my hat off and said a prayer of thanks right on
the spot," he says.
   Mr. Adams has been making bows for 42 years, since he was
12 years old, when a master bowyer took him as an apprentice.
Now he's wondering who will carry on his work. His son can
make bows, but doesn't share his father's passion for it. His
young grandsons seem interested, but it's too early to tell
if they'll want to carry on an ancient craft from a small
town in Oregon.
   Then there's the taxol thing. The rush to produce more
taxol from yew bark, and the snail's pace of efforts to
synthesize the drug, have caused Mr. Adams to worry not only
about who will carry on his skills, but also if there even
will be any yew trees left for a new generation of bowyers.
   In the 1991 bark-gathering season that ended last fall,
180,000 pounds of yew bark were harvested in Oregon's
Willamette National Forest alone. Collectors cut down yew
trees with chain saws, stripped the bark and left the wood.
   "In some respects it's like killing the buffalo for the
hide and letting the carcass rot," says Mr. Adams.
   He says he has mixed feelings about this sudden interest
in the yew tree. He thinks it's wonderful that the tree that
he has long revered has been found to prolong the lives of
people with certain cancers. But he fears that not enough
people care about prolonging the life of the yew.
   "Human lives are much more important than these bows," he
says. "But this is one of the few areas in the world where
the yew still grows, and it's just a matter of years before
it's gone. What's left will be put on the endangered list,
then nobody can touch it."
   For the time being, he has plenty of seasoned yew wood
with which to fill his orders. Working on five to 10 bows at
a time, he painstakingly fashions the blocks of wood into
shiny, perfectly balanced longbows with leather grips and
cow-horn nocks. Each is made to a customer's specified draw
and pull.
   When they're finished, the sleek, narrow bows weigh less
than two pounds. He dates and signs them: "Don Adams, Bowyer,
Elmira, Ore., USA." His price is $795.
   "I'm about the last of the people who are making this type
of a bow from this material," says Mr. Adams, "and my natural
resources are just about to an end. A 1,000-year-old craft is
gone. That's just the sad truth."
   ---
   Ms. Hauser is a free-lance writer based in Portland, Ore.