Worry About Under-Investment, Not Deficits
   ----
   By Allan H. Meltzer
Economists do not agree whether or how budget deficits
affect the economy. They do agree, however, that if deficits
matter, the two deficit measures that matter most are (1) the
primary budget deficit and (2) the ratio of publicly held
debt to some broad measure of spending such as GDP or GNP.
   The primary budget deficit excludes interest payments and
the massive outlays for the thrift bailout, two expenditures
that have no impact on economic activity, aggregate spending
or prices. Interest payments are a pure transfer. The
government collects revenue from some people that it then
pays as interest to others. This may have modest distributive
consequences, but it does not affect the workings of the
economy.
   The huge expenditures on the thrift bailout pay for losses
incurred in the past, when resources were wasted in
unproductive projects or in some cases were stolen. Had the
government kept its accounts more accurately, the losses
would have been recorded when the net worth of many SLs
became negative. Instead, they are recorded now as part of
the deficit. That makes both the reported current deficit
larger and reported earlier deficits smaller. When the assets
of the failed SLs are sold, future deficits will be reduced.
Again, all this bookkeeping has no economic significance.
   The ratio of public debt to GDP signals that the national
debt may be rising faster than the economy's capacity to pay.
From the repeated experience of countries in Latin America
and elsewhere, we know that an ever-increasing ratio of debt
to GDP may be followed by inflation or even hyper-inflation.
This may be a problem for Russia or Brazil, but
hyperinflation is a remote danger for the U.S., where
inflation has fallen during the years of handwringing about
the deficit.
   In fact, neither the primary deficit nor the debt ratio
suggests that the U.S. budget deficit should be high on the
list of current concerns. The primary budget was in surplus
from 1988 to 1990. Last year the government reported a
cyclical primary deficit of about $50 billion resulting from
the recession. Before the president's tax and spending
initiatives the CBO projected relatively small primary
deficits for 1992 and 1993, reflecting its forecasts of
sluggish growth in output, employment and tax revenues, with
continued growth in non-defense spending. The CBO estimated
that if the economy were at full employment, the primary
budget would show a surplus of 0.5% to 1% of GDP for the
fiscal years 1993 to 1997.
   During the 1980s the ratio of federal debt to GDP jumped
from the mid-20% range to the low-40% range. Financing the
SL bailout and rising government spending (including
interest payments) will move the debt ratio to about 55% of
GDP in the 1990s. Thereafter the debt ratio should remain
stable, according to government and responsible private
projections. If the projections are correct, the debt ratio
will be returning to its mid-1950s level, before the
inflation of the 1970s reduced the real value of the debt. At
55% the U.S. debt to GDP ratio is not much larger than the
ratios in Germany and France.
   If the primary deficit and the debt ratio were all that
mattered, we could be confident that the budget posed no
long-term threat to economic stability. Unfortunately, the
government accounts are not as inclusive as they could be.
Government liabilities for civilian and military employee
pensions are as much an obligation as a formal bond contract.
   These claims are not included as part of the government's
debt, but they should be. Estimates by Henning Bohn of the
Wharton School show that pension obligations for government
employees increased the federal government's liabilities at
the end of 1989 by $1.2 trillion -- and government pensions
are only one of many liabilities excluded from the
debt-to-GDP ratio. Among some of the notable others: federal
deposit insurance, guarantees of private pensions and of
shareholders' brokerage accounts. The thrift crisis is an
example of a contingent liability that came due.
   Accounting for the federal government's hidden liabilities
is not a mere matter of detail. While official documents show
that the federal government added $1 trillion to its net debt
between 1982 and 1990, Mr. Bohn estimates that a more
accurate measure of the increase in net government
liabilities for these years is $1.5 trillion -- and even that
is without including future obligations for Social Security
and Medicare.
   The government reported total net financial liabilities of
$1.6 trillion at the end of 1989. But Prof. Bohn estimates
that the government's total negative net worth is in fact
twice that amount, again excluding Medicare and Social
Security liabilities. If Mr. Bohn is correct, the federal
government's indebtedness is equal to about 27% of Americans'
total private wealth.
   Mistaken assumptions about deficits and the public debt
matter because they lead presidential and congressional
candidates, journalists and citizens to draw incorrect
conclusions and become concerned about the wrong set of
issues.
   The major question is not the deficit itself, but how the
federal budget affects the way Americans use resources.
Looking at the deficit alone makes it seem that federal
investment in infrastructure has the same effect as hiring
more regulators. The effects on the economy of these two ways
of spending money are, however, quite different. If the
government's investment is effective, private sector
productivity is enhanced. Consequently, the government adds
assets that offset its liability for debt. The private sector
too may add additional assets, so wealth increases.
   On the other side, regulators often reduce private sector
productivity by diverting resources to unproductive tasks.
And here there is no asset to offset the liability.
Computation of government net worth shows that the government
has accumulated debt without generating assets to pay for it,
either directly or by increasing productivity in the private
sector.
   Of course governments everywhere are concerned with issues
other than productivity, such as the protection of persons
and property, protection of the environment and
redistribution of incomes and wealth. These concerns are not
advanced by fevered worry about an imprecise and mismeasured
number.
   None of this should suggest that budget deficits are
irrelevant. But when many express concern about what this
generation will leave to its progeny, we need to be clear
about what government has done and can do and what we as a
nation want it to do. Instead of concentrating on the
deficit, we should ask three questions about administration
and congressional spending and tax proposals:
   1) Does the program benefit the present at the expense of
the future?
   2) Does it further the practice of encouraging consumption
at the expense of saving and investment?
   3) Does it encourage growth or redistribution?
   With a few exceptions, most of what has been proposed this
year by the president or Congress favors the present over the
future, consumption over saving and redistribution over
growth. These choices do not address public concern about
slow growth of income and productivity. They add to future
liabilities without providing government assets or
encouraging acquisition of private wealth to pay for debts
when they fall due.
   It is a mistake to allow concerns about the budget
position to prevent actions that raise standards of living
and add as much or more to assets than to debt. Budget
decisions that encourage investment, raise productivity and
reverse the bias toward current consumption should be
welcome, even if the people with green eyeshades turn blue.
   ---
   Mr. Meltzer is professor of economics at Carnegie Mellon
University in Pittsburgh and a visiting scholar at the
American Enterprise Institute.