Olivetti Is Open to Broad Partnership
   With Larger Concern, Possibly Digital
   ----
   By Laurence Hooper
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
But Mr. Piol noted that the Italian computer concern isn't
"actively moving" to cement a broad relationship with any
particular company, including Digital, at the moment. He
stressed that a future partnership wouldn't necessarily
involve an equity stake or financial investment in Olivetti,
and that Olivetti would have to retain its independence.
   "We are not against" a broad partnership with a big
company, Mr. Piol said. "But we recognize that some kinds of
alliance can be detrimental to Olivetti's future." He said
this concern was behind Olivetti's recent rebuff of
International Business Machines Corp., a potential suitor,
and also caused the termination of its 1980s partnership with
American Telephone  Telegraph Co.
   Despite his caution regarding linkups, Mr. Piol gave a
boost to Digital-Olivetti relations by disclosing that
Olivetti hopes by year end to build a prototype computer
using the U.S. company's new "Alpha" microprocessor, which is
based on a highspeed chip technology known as
reduced-instruction-set computing or Risc.
   The disclosure was unusual, since Digital hasn't formally
licensed the Alpha design to Olivetti, and hasn't yet
provided any chips to the Italian company. But Mr. Piol's
statements indicate that such a deal is very likely.
   Digital has already licensed the Alpha design to Cray
Research Inc., the U.S. supercomputer maker, and to Japan's
Kubota Corp.
   A spokesman at Digital's European headquarters in Geneva
said his company would be "very pleased" if Olivetti decided
to license Alpha, saying such an accord "would be a good
example of a natural extension of the relationship we have
with them now." As to the idea of a broad bilateral linkup,
the spokesman said that Digital and Olivetti's cooperation so
far has been limited to "areas of mutual interest." Digital
"has no plans to move outside those areas," he said.
   Until now, Olivetti has said it will use a Risc chip
designed by MIPS Computer Systems Inc. in future personal
computers, an aim Mr. Piol said Olivetti firmly intends to
fulfill, starting with a machine that will appear later this
year. He also said he's confident that MIPS chips still have
a future because NEC Corp. of Japan, a major MIPS backer and
maker of MIPS-designed chips, has assured him it won't allow
the design to die.
   In recent months, speculation about the health of MIPS
Computer Systems had clouded the prospects for the company's
once-hot chip design, which is the basis for future computers
proposed by the "ACE" consortium formed last year by Digital,
Microsoft Corp. and Compaq Computer Corp. Olivetti is a
member of ACE.
   But while he was confident about the future of MIPS chips,
Mr. Piol said he sees some new Microsoft software as the true
key to ACE. Because the Alpha chip will also run the
Microsoft software, he said, Olivetti considers it "very
important," too. And despite his commitment to build
MIPS-based machines, he went on to call Alpha "the most
logical evolution" for ACE-type computers, particularly for
high-end machines and perhaps even some future personal
computers.
   Alpha chips currently cost about $1,500 each, and thus are
impractical for use in PCs, Olivetti's main business, at the
moment. But Digital already has said it will allow the chips
to use much of the same software that runs on MIPS chips, and
will provide an easy route for customers to graduate from
MIPS to Alpha.
   Mr. Piol said those statements amounted to a guarantee and
even a roadmap for the future of ACE, rather than a
repudiation of the consortium in favor of Alpha, as many
observers have warned.
   Stratton Sclavos, a vice president of MIPS Computer
Systems, said his company isn't worried by Olivetti's
enthusiasm for Alpha. "It's natural that Olivetti and other
companies will take a look at Alpha, as they would with any
new technology," he said.
   Mr. Sclavos noted that Alpha isn't accepted as a valid ACE
design, and that the chip requires much more power to run
than MIPS chips, making it unsuitable at present for small
machines such as PCs or workstations.
   Separately, Mr. Piol said Olivetti will launch a new line
of personal computers at the huge CeBIT computer exposition
in Hannover, Germany, this week. The PCs will revamp the
company's "Professional" business-PC offerings, and will
include a model based on a new Intel Corp. technology that
doubles the internal speed of its microprocessor brain.
   In addition, Olivetti will unveil its first laptop
computer with a full-color screen; demonstrate the prototype
of its new ACE computer, based on the MIPS Risc chip design;
introduce its first computer that uses several Intel
microprocessors simultaneously; and broaden several of its
other hardware and software offerings.