Marketing:
   Japanese Translate English Into Profit
   ----
   By Yumiko Ono
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Japan's booming industry of English-language schools
racked up estimated sales of three trillion yen ($24.2
billion) last year. And several of the schools are setting
their sights overseas with plans to expand to the U.S. and
Europe.
   GEOS, as Global Educational Opportunities  Services is
known, claims to be Japan's biggest chain of English-language
schools. It had more than 49,000 adult students enrolled in
the year ended Sept. 30, 1991, up 12% from a year earlier and
double the number of students three years ago.
   Such enthusiasm may be surprising, considering that
Japanese college graduates have gone through 10 solid years
of English studies. But because their teachers focus
intensely on reading and writing, many Japanese who travel
overseas and watch English-language television programs are
crushed to discover how little they actually understand.
   Speaking English, moreover, is much more than just
mastering a foreign language. "It's the first step to
becoming international," says a GEOS spokesman.
   There are other motives too. "For men, it's a business
necessity," says Tomoaki Koso, editor of Keiko and Manabu, an
education magazine. But for many young women, learning
English is a trendy hobby, like buying clothes and learning
scuba diving. Besides, "there's the possibility of
befriending foreigners," he says -- in particular,
high-status foreign boyfriends.
   Striving to cash in on the growing market, new schools are
cropping up all over. Specific data aren't available, but
industry observers estimate that there are 8,000 schools
nationwide, with at least 30 new companies having sprouted up
annually during the past few years.
   With all the added competition, both new and old schools
are resorting to more-daring tactics to gain attention.
"Japan -- The New Age," says a graphic poster in Tokyo subway
cars, beside a photo of a young Japanese woman stretching to
remove her shirt and exposing the silhouette of her breasts.
"Let's change into Bi-Lingual."
   "We wanted people to notice us instantly," says Hiroko
Minami, president of Bi-Lingual Corp., a Tokyo-based chain of
24 English-language schools. And it worked, says Ms. Minami,
who personally thought up the ad. Since displaying the
posters in September, "we had so many calls from people
wanting to enroll. Even older men told me they liked the ad."
   The romantic image may have nothing to do with the reality
of Bi-Lingual's solemn classes, where businessmen diligently
repeat such phrases as "I have normal blood pressure," and
"Yes, sometimes I have stress." Says Naoko Inoue, a
24-year-old government office worker who attends a Bi-Lingual
class and aspires to study in the U.S. or England this year,
"I couldn't figure out what {the ad} had to do with an
English school."
   But the image helped Bi-Lingual's business to grow by an
annual 20% to about 10 billion yen last year, Ms. Minami
says. In addition to doubling the number of domestic schools
and boosting sales to 15 billion yen in the next few years,
Ms. Minami aims to set up English-language schools in Asia,
the U.S. and Europe.
   "The image often carries more weight than the actual
performance" for students choosing a school, adds Chihiko
Kujirai, a manager for LADO International College. The
two-year-old school stresses that it has a solid program,
invented by a world-famous linguist. But to push its snobbish
image, it advertises using a portrait of a tuxedo-clad Afghan
hound posing next to a Persian cat wearing a red cocktail
dress.
   Actually, few schools disclose much about the actual
effectiveness of their curricula, and few measuring rods are
available to gauge the competence of the schools. "Even we
don't know {yet} which are the good ones and which are the
bad ones," says Fumio Ooka, a board member of the Japan
Association for the Promotion of Foreign Language Education
and regional director of Berlitz Schools of Languages (Japan)
Inc. The association was established in September, after much
nagging by the government, to monitor the standards of the
schools.
   In fact, many schools have closed recently, because "they
thought all they needed were" native English speakers to
teach, whether they were qualified or not, says Masako Chujo,
manager of ALC Press Inc., a Tokyo-based publisher of
language textbooks and information.
   Of course, "native" teachers, from the U.S., England or
Australia, do much to bolster credibility. Many Japanese
students are fussy about which accents they pick up, and want
to learn colloquial expressions that they've heard in movies
but were never taught by their Japanese teachers.
   "All our teachers are foreigners," boasts KISS, or Kent's
International Social Salon. In addition to the 200 foreign
teachers, the school invites foreign television celebrities
in Japan -- including Kent Gilbert, its principal -- to drop
by occasionally to chat with students.
   Some schools are trying to stress an international image
by expanding their national and overseas network. Global
Educational, which has 171 branches in Japan, offers to send
its graduates to nine of its schools abroad. "We have to go
one step further to foster these internationalists," says
Tsuneo Kusunoki, the school's chairman, adding that the
company three years ago acquired Warner Pacific College,
Portland, Ore., to offer Japanese students noncredit language
courses. In the next decade, Mr. Kusunoki hopes to open 20
schools in Asia and 30 in Europe, to teach English and
Japanese.