Coffee Exchange,
   Comex Hold Talks
   On Possible Merger
   ----
   By Anita Raghavan
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The merger talks were first reported in two trade
newsletters, Securities Week and the Wall Street Letter.
   "I think what people are coming toward is the sentiment
that if it is possible to put the diverse personalities into
one group, then the savings of doing business are
significant," said Mr. Falk. But "mergers are like marriages.
They have to be well thought out or they become a disaster."
   Mr. Falk said the committee is considering whether the
exchanges should merge formally or find ways of jointly
reducing expenses.
   Mergers of some of or all of the New York commodity
exchanges have been proposed and reproposed over the years,
but personality differences and turf concerns have blocked
consummation.
   Just last year, the Comex unanimously rejected a proposed
merger with the New York Mercantile Exchange.
   This latest round of merger talks is prompted by the move
of the New York commodity exchanges, except for the New York
Mercantile Exchange, to build a new combined exchange
building for trading and offices.
   The new facility "just focused our thinking" on a merger,
said Mr. Greenberg. "We are living together, so why don't we
explore getting married."
   Specifically, the two exchanges are exploring the benefits
of merging trade-processing operations and developing
handheld trading systems together.
   If the committee determines that a merger between the two
exchanges is feasible, the Cotton Exchange and New York
Futures exchanges would be invited to join as well, Mr. Falk
said. "If the committee says it works for us, then it
probably works for everybody," he said.
   One of the main challenges the exchanges will face is
integrating their different styles of operation. For
instance, Mr. Falk said the Coffee, Sugar  Cocoa Exchange
has a more conservative approach to position limits and
margins requirements than the Comex. "That's a difference in
mentality," said Mr. Falk. "It's not an irreconcilable
difference, but it's one that has to be addressed."
   Some exchange members said the time may finally be ripe
for a merger. "I don't see anything wrong with the New York
exchanges getting together to fight international exchanges
rather than each other," said John Walsh, an independent
floor broker at the Comex. "We work in one room and in one
industry. If we don't get along, our future doesn't look that
bright."