LEISURE  ARTS:
   Film: A Morality Play in Backwater Brazil
   ----
   By Julie Salamon
Two sets of newcomers, who turn out to be the story's
catalysts, arrive in town at roughly the same time -- a pair
of American mercenaries, forced by a fuel shortage to land,
and a missionary accompanied by his wife and son. It is a
small place with one hotel, so very quickly the foreigners
become acquainted with one another and with the political
situation. The political situation is this: The Indians (a
fictional tribe called the Niarunas) live deep in the
Amazonian jungle on valuable land, land that it turns out
contains gold. The local officials want the Indians out and
will cut deals with anyone who can arrange for that to
happen.
   The first deal was arranged with Leslie Huben (John
Lithgow), the resident missionary, who agreed to convert and
evacuate the Indians within a certain period of time. (If he
fails, the government can take other, more drastic action.)
Huben, an arrogant man whose manner toward religious
conversion seems to ape the style of a regional manager for
vacuum cleaner sales, talks of the people whose souls he's
after as "stupid" and of Catholic priests as "the
opposition." The "opposition" closed its mission after a nun
was raped and priests were murdered. Huben hopes to "win" by
bringing in a missionary devoted entirely to the conversion
of the Indians. (His wife, played by Daryl Hannah, knows
nothing of his deal and its timetable.)
   As the movie opens, the local officials have grown
impatient with Huben. When the mercenaries drop into the
village without proper papers, the bureaucrat rejects their
bribe and tells them that they can leave only after they drop
a bomb or two on the Niarunas. He thinks he has picked good
candidates for his mission in these outcasts: Wolfie (Tom
Waits), a cynical, wisecracking Jew covered with tattoos, and
Lewis Moon (Tom Berenger), a morose half-Cheyenne.
   At the same time, Martin Quarrier (Aidan Quinn) arrives
with his fat, nervous wife, Hazel (Kathy Bates), and their
young son, Billy. Among these world-weary people Martin is an
innocent, whose desire to do good doesn't seem motivated at
all by a desire for power (like Hubens, the resident
missionary for the region). Martin wants adventure. He loves
the Indians with the intellectual curiosity of an
anthropologist and the excited interest of a boy captivated
by folklore. His wife, on the other hand, is a caricature of
repression and narrow-mindedness, played with eerie
astuteness by Ms. Bates. She talks of doing God's will with a
zombie smile, then looks with revulsion on the people whose
spirit she wants to win. She won't even let her son eat fresh
pineapple because it's locally grown. Mr. Babenco, best known
in this country for "Kiss of the Spider Woman," establishes
these characters distinctly and then makes the story's moral
points through them. Each of them has his or her reasons for
wanting to "help" the Indians, including Lewis Moon, who
chooses not to bomb the Niarunas but to join with them.
Through Moon's sojourn with the Niarunas, Mr. Babenco brings
to life their (fictional) culture.
   The story's real force, however, is in Martin Quarrier's
recognition of the absurdity of his position, luring the
Indians to his God by means of trinkets and candy. Yet he
can't leave; he feels compelled to become part of the tragedy
after he realizes that he is in part the cause of it.
   The movie covers a lot of territory, both physically (the
photography of the Amazon's forests and waterfalls and cliffs
is magnificent) and emotionally. Oddly, its only flaw seems
to be a skimpiness of plot development here and there, even
though it runs at great length, over three hours. But this is
generally an extraordinary piece of work, thoroughly
absorbing.
   ---
   "Fried Green Tomatoes" is the story of a bored, overweight
woman (Kathy Bates) who regenerates herself after hearing the
adventures of a powerhouse woman named Idgie Threadgoode,
starting a half-century ago. The movie moves back and forth
between the tragicomic travails of the Kathy Bates character
in the present, and Idgie's inspirational life in the past.
   What's good about this film is its friendly feminist
premise and its performances, especially from Ms. Bates, Mary
Stuart Masterson as Idgie, Jessica Tandy as the old lady
telling the flashback stories, and Mary-Louise Parker, as
Idgie's best friend. What's not so good, besides the curious
title, is Jon Avnet's literal-minded direction.
   ---
   VIDEO TIP: Director John Boorman took on the subject of
the Amazon forest in 1985, in "The Emerald Forest," the story
of an American engineer who takes his family to the jungle to
build a dam. His son is kidnapped by a native tribe called
the Invisible People and the engineer spends 10 years trying
to find him. Though the scenes with the whites are terribly
stilted, the scenes in the jungle have a mystical power.