Commodities:
   Wheat Futures Jump on Forecasts of Cold Weather
   That May Inflict More Damage on Weakened Crop
   ----
   By Jeffrey Taylor
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
A cold front was expected to move into winter-wheat
growing areas in the Plains states and Midwest. This comes at
a particularly bad time for wheat farmers, many of whom
already have seen substantial portions of their soft red
winter wheat crops die from weather stress.
   Though the winter has been generally mild, unseasonably
cold temperatures in October and November hurt the fledgling
crop. And unseasonably warm weather recently may have caused
the crop to develop prematurely, exposing it to more damage
if the weather turns cold again.
   Wheat stocks on May 31, the end of the crop year, are
expected to be about 390 million bushels, the tightest level
since 1973-74, said Daniel W. Basse, market research director
for AgResource Co., Chicago.
   And some analysts think wheat stocks will only get tighter
during the next crop year, 1992-93. Bill Biedermann, vice
president for research at Allendale Inc., Crystal Lake, Ill.,
estimated that three million acres of soft red winter wheat
are "in trouble." Farmers may choose to plow under as many as
one million of those acres, resulting in a possible 32%
reduction of wheat stocks by May 31, 1993, he said.
   Wheat crops in Illinois, Indiana and parts of Ohio and
Iowa have been particularly hard hit this year. For example,
Darren Smith, a farmer in Woodstock, Ill., said yesterday he
expects only about 300 of the 700 acres of winter wheat he
planted this year to reach maturity. And Mr. Smith's crop is
healthier than those on many other farms in his area.
   A group from the University of Wisconsin recently
performed tests on winter wheat plants from northern Illinois
fields. When they removed the plants and tried to use growth
lights to bring them out of dormancy, about 70% of the plants
didn't respond.
   "Mother Nature usually does a better job of bringing
plants out of dormancy than grow lights, so we don't expect
it to be that bad," Mr. Biedermann said. "But that at least
tells us there's a problem."
   In addition to the poor outlook for wheat supplies,
futures prices got upward price pressure from the possibility
of additional foreign demand. Representatives of Exportkhelb,
the grain-buying agency for Russia, are expected to come to
Washington tomorrow, a few days earlier than originally
scheduled. They are expected to press Russia's request for
export bonus credits, much of which would be used to buy U.S.
wheat.
   Traders who had held short positions, or bets that wheat
futures prices would decline, contributed to yesterday's
price rally by buying futures contracts to close out the
positions. "People didn't want to be short in front of these
meetings in Washington," Mr. Basse said.
   In other commodity markets yesterday:
                                                                                                       

   PRECIOUS METALS: Gold futures fell as selling by Mideast
investors in overseas markets dragged prices lower. But
futures rebounded slightly when bargain hunters emerged and
snapped up futures at lower prices. Gold for March delivery
settled at $348.90 an ounce, down 60 cents. The actively
traded April contract also finished 60 cents lower at
$349.70. The April contract rebounded after hitting a
life-of-contract low of $348.30. "Breaking below the $350
level attracted some bargain hunting," said Fred Demler,
metals economist at PaineWebber. Added George
Milling-Stanley, precious metals analyst at Shearson Lehman
Brothers: "I think there is very, very good support" at this
level. Mr. Milling-Stanley said he doesn't expect the spot
price to fall much below the mid-$340s. There is strong
physical demand for gold from such Far Eastern nations as
Hong Kong, Singapore and Taiwan, he said. The South African
Reserve Bank has tended to hold off on gold sales when the
price falls into the mid-$340s range, he added.
                                                                                                       

   ENERGY: A late rally sent crude oil prices higher by the
close of trading on the New York Mercantile Exchange. Trading
was light and contracts continued to trade in a narrow price
range. Crude for April delivery ended at $18.67 a barrel, up
16 cents. The contract traded as high as $18.70 a barrel and
as low as $18.47. Gasoline prices fell, however. Traders said
the weakness came from an oversupply of gasoline for winter
consumption and poor demand. April gasoline slid 0.26 cent a
gallon to 57.47 cents. Heating oil futures rose as many
traders sold gasoline futures and bought heating oil
contracts.
                                                                                                       

   COTTON: Futures prices rose. Cotton for March delivery
ended at 53.46 cents a pound, up 0.61 cent. The actively
traded May contract finished at 54.86 cents, 0.83 cent
higher. "What we did here today was correct a grossly
oversold condition," said Sharon Johnson, a cotton specialist
at Cargill Investor Services in Atlanta. Cotton futures were
depressed last week on reports of increased cotton production
around the world. After hitting a life-of-contract low of
53.25 cents yesterday, May futures rebounded when it became
clear that the lower prices weren't attracting additional
selling.