Noble Roquefort,
   The King of Cheese,
   Is Now Under Siege
   ---
   It Inspires Poets, but Will
   Takeover Artists Defer
   To Its Royal Heritage?
   ----
   By Peter Gumbel
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
But suddenly the talk has turned sober at the cheese's
home village of Roquefort-sur-Soulzon in southern France. For
reasons beyond its control, the "king of cheese" is at risk
of being dethroned. Adding insult to injury, the usurper
might not even be French.
   That is more than enough to give Roquefort the blues.
   "Just imagine what would happen if Roquefort were sold
like, say, Camembert," sniffs Xavier Cluzel de Coussergues, a
representative of local sheep farmers, outlining his
nightmare scenario.
   "It would be terrible to vulgarize Roquefort," says
Michele Alric, whose family has been producing the Papillon
brand of Roquefort since 1906. "Of course, people are
worried. They don't know what sauce they'll be eating."
   The cause of the anguish is far removed from the rock and
scrub hills of Aveyron, the department in which Roquefort is
situated. It stems from the Paris Bourse, where one of
Europe's biggest takeover battles is being waged.
   Two of the big cheeses of European industry, Italy's
Agnelli family and Switzerland's Nestle S.A., are sparring
for ownership of the famous mineral-water company, Source
Perrier. Perrier happens to own a majority stake in the
Societe des Caves et des Producteurs Reunis de Roquefort, the
company that produces and controls about 80% of the
village's, and the world's, output.
   If Nestle wins, it has already said that it will try to
sell Roquefort, prolonging the uncertainty about the cheese's
future. If the Agnellis are victorious, locals fear Roquefort
will fall into the hands of a nation of hostile
Gorgonzola-eaters.
   Casanova said Roquefort helped "to bring a budding love to
prompt fruition." These days, though, it has been all but
shut out of Italy by domestic blue rivals.
   There is, of course, a fair chance that the eventual owner
won't change anything. The Societe's other large shareholder
-- Credit Agricole, France's main agricultural bank -- has
said it wants to keep things as they are.
   Also, the mighty French farm lobby, not one to take
chances, is already making a stink-waging a campaign in the
press and putting pressure on the bidders. At stake is not
just a cheese, it says, but a slice of French heritage -- and
a cozy cartel of milk producers and cheesemakers that it
doesn't want to see disrupted.
   "Roquefort embodies symbolic values that are different in
nature from these financial games," insists Raymond Lacombe,
the president of the most powerful French farmers'
association who happens to hail from a village near
Roquefort. "We are not talking about cars, or other inert
objects," he adds, taking a dig at the Agnellis' ownership of
Fiat.
   "We are chauvinistic. We are protectionist. We hold to our
region, our traditions," thunders Mr. Cluzel de Coussergues,
the sheep farmers' representative. "Mr. Agnelli is a producer
of saucepans on wheels. They are very nice, but they are
still saucepans."
   For all such fighting talk, even local protectionists
recognize there is little they can do to prevent Roquefort
falling into non-French hands. "That's one of the
consequences of accepting Europe," says Pierre Bru, a farmer
and Societe board member. (The Agnellis, in fact, already
hold an indirect stake in the company through their
part-ownership of one of Perrier's main shareholders. An
Agnelli company official says the Italian family has been
upset by what it sees as the unfair nationalist reaction in
France to their bid for Perrier, and thus Roquefort.)
   More daunting for Mr. Bru and many others is the prospect
of a proprietor who won't defer to local tradition. The
example of Camembert strikes particular fear. Most of that
soft cheese is churned out en masse, sometimes thousands of
miles away from the Normandy village that bears its name.
Roquefort, by contrast, is fiercely proud of producing an
elitist cheese according to time-honored custom -- and only
in the village.
   Nature helps. Roquefort is made from unpasteurized ewe's
milk, whose curd is molded into a traditional round "loaf"
and stored in caves that surround the village. The caves came
into being some 200 million years ago, when a local mountain
collapsed, leaving a mass of fallen rocks ventilated by
natural air shafts. It is there that penicillium roqueforti,
the microscopic fungus used to make the cheese, thrives. And
it is there, neatly ranged on oak shelves, that the cheese
ripens, the bluey-green fungus gently spreading through the
loaf and providing its distinctive taste.
   Locals say that nothing in this process can be recreated
artificially or by cutting corners. "To make Roquefort, you
need three things -- water, air and a certain temperature,"
says Maurice Astruc, a 52-year-old master cheesemaker. He
plunges a tiny tube into the heart of a ripening cheese, and
inspects the progress of the fungus. "Everything is
variable," he says.
   While it may be hard to recreate the taste of Roquefort
outside the caves, there is one part of the operation where
change could be introduced: the bottom line. It too has
proved to be variable.
   Thanks to its snob appeal, Roquefort commands extremely
high prices in stores -- about double that of most Camembert
brands in France. Yet the Societe's profits have been
miserable of late, partly because it tried a disastrous
diversification into yogurt.
   Not lost on local sheep farmers is the fact that the
easiest way for a new owner to boost profitability would be
by milking them. That is where the cozy arrangement with the
farming lobby comes in.
   Aveyron is one of France's poorest regions, but its 3,000
sheep farmers have done relatively well under a deal made
with Roquefort more than 60 years ago. The accord guarantees
farmers a high price for their ewe's milk. In return, they
endeavor to improve the quality of the milk and keep
production in check. The agreement has been so successful
that Roquefort cheese now accounts for more than a third of
the region's economy.
   But like most French milk producers, Aveyron's farmers
have been almost too successful for their own good. Each
pampered ewe produces more than twice as much milk as it did
a decade ago, and output is now far in excess of the amount
needed to make Roquefort. "We are submerged in milk," admits
Mrs. Alric, the Papillon producer.
   The village has found other ways to use the milk -- making
feta cheese, for example. Some milk is sold in bulk to Spain
and Italy, undercutting the sheep farmers in those countries.
But a new Roquefort cheese manufacturer could, at least in
theory, greatly improve profitability by tearing up the
agreement with the farmers and using the surplus to squeeze
milk prices. "All it would take is one bulldozer," says a
nervous Societe official.
   The chorus of concern that has erupted with the takeover
battle is thus designed to send a message to any would-be
bulldozer: Don't even think about change. "Everyone
underestimates our resistance," mutters Mr. Bru, the farmer,
over a lunch of entrecote Roquefort. "We have the capacity to
fight fiercely."
   The French government will agree. In one cause celebre,
angry demonstrators forced Paris to reverse a policy that
would have enabled the army to stage maneuvers on
agricultural land near Roquefort.
   In fact, changing anything around here is tough. The last
major controversy to hit the village came a couple of years
ago, when authorities considered building a cable car to the
top of the collapsed mountain to give tourists a spectacular
view of the countryside.
   The cheese producers rallied to kill the project. "It was
a crazy idea," says Mrs. Alric, rolling her eyes as if the
notion were as absurd as making Roquefort perfume.