Firms Protest
   Phone-Package
   Freeze by FCC
   ----
   By Mary Lu Carnevale
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The August decision was complicated, and at the time few
customers understood its implications. The FCC ruled that
because ATT dominates the market for 800 service, the
telephone giant couldn't continue to offer new custom
packages that included 800 service until early next year.
   By then, new technology in local phone networks is
expected to permit 800 customers to change their
long-distance carrier and take their 800 number with them.
That's important because many companies have spent huge
amounts to promote their 800 numbers or have such numbers
spell words; under the FCC ruling, they would have to give up
those numbers if they switch long-distance carriers.
   So the FCC grandfathered existing packages, known as
Tariff 12 options. While some individual Tariff 12 options
have attracted several companies, most are used by single
customers. About 150 companies, including long-distance
resellers, have signed multiyear contracts for the services.
   ATT can offer existing options that include 800 service
as well as new packages with no 800 service. To close a
potential loophole, the agency in December began rejecting
requests for substantial revisions that would enable ATT to
tailor old packages with 800 service to fit new customers. "A
substantial modification is a way to make grandfathering a
joke," said James Spurlock of the Common Carrier Bureau.
   Nevertheless, the commission is likely to modify its
August decision to address unrest among customers, perhaps by
the end of the month.
   ATT wants the commission to reconsider its whole decision
while its rivals want the agency to grandfather customers
rather than tariff options. "Had the commission grandfathered
customers and not options, it would not be in this
predictament," said Donald Elardo, director of regulatory law
for MCI Communications Corp.
   ATT and its customers have complained that the whole
matter hinders good business decisions and flies in the face
of President Bush's push to halt unneeded regulation.
   In a letter yesterday to FCC Chairman Alfred Sikes and the
four other commissioners, Thomas Norris, an ATT vice
president, asked the agency to reconsider the August
decision.
   In addition, ATT wants to be able to introduce or change
services or cut prices on one day's notice, down from the
review periods that range from 14 to 45 days. ATT figures
that the lag cost customers roughly $100 million last year.