Your Money Matters:
   Big Insurers
   Taking Aim
   At `Rebating'
   ----
   By Karen Slater
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
But while that off-price approach can mean substantial
savings for some insurance buyers, it has antagonized many
traditional agents and insurance companies. In particular,
they say rebating, which is legal in only two states, could
lead to excessive competition that would hurt insurers,
agents and, ultimately, consumers.
   Giant Prudential Insurance Co. of America is one of
several insurers that have barred Mr. Nelson's firm and Mr.
White's Direct Insurance Services from selling their policies
-- moves the discounters are challenging in regulatory forums
and the courts.
   The clash spotlights the hefty sales commissions with
which insurance products are usually sold. Although a few
insurers sell policies directly to consumers without big
sales charges, commissions typically amount to 50% or more of
the first-year premium on life insurance policies sold by
agents.
   The dispute also provides some useful lessons for
insurance shoppers: There are techniques by which
sophisticated and persistent buyers can get better deals. But
when it comes to rebates in particular, many big companies
seem to be doing their best to keep them out of consumers'
hands. Insurance companies say they are legally entitled to
spurn agents whose practices they dislike. "We have the right
to choose who we do business with," says Bruce Poulsen, a
vice president and regional counsel for Prudential. "One of
our rules is we simply do not want to do business with people
who rebate."
   Mr. Nelson and Mr. White say they suspect it is their
advertising, as much as their actions, that has riled the
industry. "The insurance companies didn't want the average
consumer understanding this was available," Mr. Nelson says.
Mr. White says insurers "want to protect their agents" and
also don't want to have to justify commission levels that are
rarely disclosed to insurance buyers.
   The two men, who both began styling themselves as
discounters in 1989, arrived at that approach in different
ways. Mr. Nelson, who sold his first policies to fellow
undergraduates at Western Illinois University in 1974, was
looking to increase his sales after many years as a
traditional agent. Meanwhile, the discount approach came
naturally to Mr. White, whose father, Jack White, owns a
discount brokerage firm in San Diego that bears his name.
   Mr. Nelson and Mr. White -- as well as other agents
operating more quietly -- use two means to trim their
commissions and pass the savings on to consumers. The first,
called "blended design," applies to "cash-value" policies,
which incorporate a savings feature as well as a payment upon
death. By packaging together different types of life
insurance, it's possible to lower the commission and give the
buyer either lower premiums or accelerated savings growth.
   Commission rebating is the flashier technique. In
California and Florida, the two states where rebating is
legal, Mr. Nelson says he gives buyers a check for 40% to 70%
of a selling agent's first-year commission. Mr. White says he
rebates a minimum 50% of that basic commission and of some
additional payments that agents receive as well.
   While rebates are most easily obtained by California and
Florida residents, some other people have flown to those
states in order to obtain rebates on large insurance
purchases. That doesn't sit well with all state insurance
regulators, however. Mr. Nelson says he gives rebates only to
residents of California and Florida because Illinois
regulators hold that Illinois residents cannot accept rebates
anywhere.
   "It's shocking but true]" declares one of Mr. White's ads,
which includes a cartoon of a businessman who has collapsed
on the office floor with insurance policy in hand. The
caption: "He was fine until I told him an identical policy
would have cost $7,000 less with a sales commission rebate
from Direct Insurance Services."
   Commission rebating was prohibited for decades until a
Florida anti-rebating statute was overturned by the courts in
1986 and a similar California law was repealed in 1988.
Insurance industry groups have vociferously opposed all moves
to allow rebating, saying various problems that led rebating
to be barred long ago could reappear. "If an area loses
agents because they are forced out of business by agents who
rebate, we feel that would harm the insurance buying public,"
says a spokeswoman for the American Council of Life
Insurance, an insurance company group.
   William Albus, a lawyer for the National Association of
Life Underwriters, an agents group, says people could make
poor choices if they focus too much on the size of a rebate.
The desire for rebates could lead people to buy new policies
year after year, he adds, and "that can and does affect the
solvency of the companies."
   What's the bottom line for consumers on rebates and other
discounted insurance? New York insurance consultant Glenn
Daily says blended design is actually more effective than
rebating in lowering a policy's commission and increasing its
value, in part because rebates appear to be taxable income to
the recipients. But neither practice is widespread, as most
agents are reluctant to trim their own pay and most buyers
don't know to ask.
   One drawback of blended policies is their complexity. They
appear to be most commonly obtained by people paying fee-only
advisers such as Mr. Daily for help. As for rebating, the
opposition of many insurers to the practice deters agents
from getting involved. "I run a business. I am not in a
position to be a champion of causes," says one California
agent who considered advertising rebates.
   In Mr. Nelson's case, Prudential and Metropolitan Life
Insurance Co. both cited his rebating as the reason for
terminating the Illinois agent's selling authority in 1990.
No reason was specified in the termination letter from a
third company, Transamerica Occidental Life Insurance Co., a
unit of Transamerica Corp.
   Mr. Nelson sued the three insurers last year, charging
breach of contract. Prudential and Metropolitan recently
asked that the cases be dismissed, saying they were entitled
to terminate the arrangements at will. Transamerica declined
to comment on the case.
   Mr. White says he has complained to California insurance
regulators about the same three insurers and a few others
that he alleges are refusing to do business with his firm
because of its rebating practices. The California Insurance
Department has investigated Mr. White's complaints and is now
considering taking regulatory action or filing a lawsuit
alleging unfair business practices, according to Dennis C.
Ward, chief of the department's enforcement division.
   A Prudential spokesman declined to comment on Mr. White's
complaint but restated the insurer's position that it can and
will terminate agents who rebate. A spokesman for Guardian
Life Insurance Co. of America, another insurer named by Mr.
White, had the same response. Transamerica said in a
statement that the White firm "does not have an active
contract" and that information on contract history is
confidential. In states where rebating is legal, Transamerica
said it "does not support the practice."
   A spokesman for Lincoln Benefit Life Co., a unit of Sears,
Roebuck  Co., said that insurer terminated Mr. White without
cause and that its policy is to not interfere with agents who
choose to rebate. Metropolitan Life declined to comment on
Mr. White or rebating.
   Mr. White appears to have a sympathetic ear in California
Insurance Commissioner John Garamendi, a publicly elected
official who has said he sees rebates as being in the
public's interest. When Mr. White's complaints were brought
to the Insurance Department's attention last year, Mr.
Garamendi issued a statement that efforts by insurance
companies or agents "to prevent such discounting, or to
punish those who do offer discounts, will not be tolerated."
   Mr. White says his business expanded about sevenfold last
year, buoyed in part by promotional mailings sent to clients
of his father's brokerage firm. He declines to name the
insurers whose policies he is most frequently selling. "They
may not want to acknowledge they do business with us," he
explains. "One of the things I don't want to do is shoot
myself in the foot."
   Mr. Nelson says companies whose policies he has recently
sold include First Colony Life Insurance Co., Hartford Life
Insurance Co., Great-West Life Assurance Co. of Canada and
Sun Life Assurance Co. of Canada. But he says customer
inquiries have plummeted since last spring, when he stopped
advertising in an effort to avoid being cut off by other
insurers.
   As Mr. Nelson considers advertising again, he is also
keeping a hopeful eye on Congress. The insurance industry is
largely immune to antitrust laws, but pending legislation
would specifically make price fixing by insurers illegal. Mr.
Nelson claims that is exactly what insurers are doing when
they terminate agents who rebate -- a suggestion the American
Council strongly denies.