Politics  Policy:
   Changed Economic Needs Bring Tax Reform Act
   Under New Attack, and It Now Seems Vulnerable
   ----
   By David Wessel
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Even some of the chief architects of tax reform are
pushing to undo some of their own previous victories.
Republican Sen. Bob Packwood of Oregon, who as chairman of
the Senate Finance Committee when the Tax Reform Act in 1986
pushed provisions to wipe out tax shelters, now proposes to
partly repeal them to help the ailing real-estate industry.
   And White House Budget Director Richard Darman, who helped
craft the delicate tax-reform compromise in 1986 when he was
deputy Treasury secretary, now finds himself aligned with
those who would undo the act. Back then, he made the winning
argument that the investment tax credit distorted business
decisions. Today, he still winces when people talk of
reviving the credit -- but by the end of the month he will be
defending an expected administration proposal that is
designed to do much the same thing.
   In the past, the basic elements of the tax-reform law were
able to survive proposals like these. But the political
dynamic is different this year. Fighting the recession and
assisting the recovery is paramount. And that imperative may
overwhelm the Tax Reform Act's stated goals of efficiency and
equity.
   For example, the real-estate lobby, which has been
complaining for years that it was mistreated in 1986, is
strengthened by widespread fears that lower real-estate
prices are undermining confidence and the banking industry.
That's what convinced Sen. Packwood to introduce a bill that
would allow certain investors in rental real estate to deduct
so-called "passive losses," as they could before 1986. "Our
economy won't fully recover until the real-estate industry
turns around," says Sen. Packwood, who is in a tough
re-election fight this year.
   Of course, there are ways to help the economy, increase
incentives for investment and give the real-estate industry a
little aid without totally destroying tax reform. Friends of
tax reform will press to make anti-recession provisions
temporary so that the basic law is unchanged. They will also
try to keep tax cuts for the real-estate industry as narrow
as possible to avoid a new boom in tax shelters. And they
will work to protect the alternative minimum tax, which
prevents businesses and individuals from taking so many tax
breaks that they end up paying little or no federal tax at
all.
   "I'm somewhat bullish on the '86 act more or less
surviving," says Peter Merrill of Price Waterhouse  Co., who
was an economist at the congressional Joint Tax Committee
back in 1986. If Congress tries to restore too many old tax
breaks for certain industries or to create too many new
credits or loopholes, he says, it will have to consider the
unpopular step of raising the top tax rate for corporations
or individuals or both. "That ultimately provides a brake,"
he says.
   "If you do more than a little bit," says New Jersey
Democratic Sen. Bill Bradley, one of the godfathers of the
1986 bill, "there's only one way to pay for it: Raise tax
rates. And you've got to raise the rates more than just on
people who make more than $200,000 a year."
   Still, both Mr. Bush and Congress have already gone along
once with raising top tax rates for individuals -- although
the move was hidden in a bewildering series of new
provisions. The 1986 law set an official top marginal tax
rate of 28%, although some taxpayers actually paid 33%; in
the 1990 deficit-reduction law, the official top rate was set
at 31%, though the effective rate for some upper-income
families is 34% or more, depending on the number of children
and other factors.
   By further limiting the ability of rich people to take
full advantage of their tax deductions or by using similar
disguises, Congress could easily push up the effective top
rate while leaving the 31% statutory rate in place. "If you
raise the top rate again, you go after one of the fundamental
policies of the tax-reform act," says tax lobbyist James Rock
of Concord Associates.
   The same forces are at work on the business side. While
many business groups are touting the investment tax credit,
some lobbyists already are worrying that Congress may decide
to finance such a credit by pushing the corporate income-tax
rate up. In 1986, the repeal of the credit financed a
reduction in the top corporate tax rate to 34% from 48%.
   Meanwhile, many of the losers from the 1986 debate have
been waiting ever since for their revenge, and they see an
opportunity now. Some conservative economists, though
enthusiastic with lower overall tax rates, are still mourning
for the capital-gains tax break and other investment
incentives. "Congress leveled the investment-capital playing
field not by smoothing out the rough spots . . . but by
raising the cost of capital for everyone," supply-sider
Lawrence Lindsey, now a Federal Reserve Board governor,
complained in his book on taxes in the 1980s.
   And even some of the economists who laid the intellectual
foundation for the effort aren't sure how great the economic
consequences would be of changing the system now.
   After reading a series of academic papers that used
econometric models to search for the effects of the
tax-reform law on the broad measures of the economy,
Brookings Institute economist Henry Aaron concluded:
"Experience . . . since passage of the Tax Reform Act
generated no palpable evidence to confirm either the worst
fears of its opponents or the best hopes of its supporters."
   In short, he says, the structure of financial transactions
-- the decisions of whether to buy or lease equipment or to
rely on debt rather than equity -- may be "exquisitely
sensitive" to taxes. "But real economic behavior," he says,
"isn't so sensitive."