Telecommunications:
   GTE, Baby Bells
   Issue Challenge
   To Cellular One
   ----
   By Mary Lu Carnevale
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Last spring, Southwestern Bell Corp. and McCaw Cellular
Communications Inc. announced a joint venture to establish
Cellular One as the first standardized national brand in
cellular service. The companies work with Cellular One
licensees, which provide local service, to ensure common
service standards.
   The GTE-Baby Bells group, like Cellular One, wants to
develop service standards and solve technical problems that
make it difficult for customers to use their cellular phones
while traveling outside their home service territories.
   Customers who use the service wouldn't have to dial
special codes that tell the home cellular network where they
are if they have "roamed" outside their home territory. They
also would be able to obtain special calling features across
the country. For instance, if a customer has signed up for
call-forwarding or voice-mail services in his home territory,
he could obtain those services nationwide.
   The plan encompasses joint advertising, promotion, billing
and other technical and administrative services. Pricing and
marketing issues, which raise antitrust concerns, would be
left up to local cellular carriers.
   Other major phone companies that operate cellular
services, including Pacific Telesis Group and BellSouth
Corp., have participated in discussions about joining the
project.
   A spokeswoman for BellSouth Cellular Corp. confirmed that
the company has participated in some discussions. She added
that like other companies, the BellSouth unit is waiting for
lawyers to resolve antitrust concerns. A PacTel spokeswoman
said the company has joined in "discussions among the
wireline carriers for a nationwide branded service, and we
think this is a good first step."
   Ken Leon, a cellular analyst with Bear Stearns Cos., said
that "customers will benefit, because at least on a regional
basis, there will be seamless coverage." Still, McCaw, which
provides coverage throughout the West Coast and in much of
Florida, has big advantages. "A single carrier with a large
geographic footprint has a competitive advantage in this
business," Mr. Leon said.
   Paul Kozlowski, head of GTE Mobile Communications, said
the companies will be making "an extensive effort to get
other major carriers to join the project." Whether the new
national brand will be limited to phone-company cellular
properties is uncertain.
   In setting up cellular service more than a decade ago,
federal regulators established two licenses in each market.
One was awarded to the local phone company and the other to
an independent, or nonwireline, competitor. Cellular One
generally encompasses non-wireline carriers.
   GTE and the Baby Bells, however, are considering allowing
both wireline and non-wireline carriers to use their brand
name. At this point, Mr. Kozlowski said, the project isn't
limited to wireline carriers, and he noted that all but Nynex
own both types of cellular licenses.
   The new national brand is expected to be managed
independently from the local carriers, with the four
companies providing financial resources.