Japanese-U.S. Group Wins a Contract
   To Study Development of Oil Off Siberia
   ----
   By Quentin Hardy
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Total cost of the project was estimated by Mitsui at $8
billion to $10 billion, although some estimates have ranged
as high as $16 billion. Those figures would include
development as well as the feasibility study. A spokesman for
Marathon confirmed that the current contract award is for the
feasibility study only. The company isn't assured of the
development contract.
   However, "the consortium that won includes such strong
companies that it's hard to imagine that they wouldn't do a
satisfactory job on the feasibility study. It's very probable
that they will do the project themselves," said Viktor
Danilov-Danilian, Russian minister of ecology and natural
resources, who chaired the committee that awarded the
contract.
   Delivery of the oil is still far off, and wouldn't be an
easy task. Besides being offshore an area with little in the
way of roads, ports or airfields, Sakhalin is icebound seven
months of the year.
   Still, the Japanese participants were quick to seize on
the importance of the venture. "This is a very significant,
major project for the U.S., Japan and Russia, following the
end of the Cold War," Mitsui President Naohiko Kumagaya said.
   Japanese government officials have said privately that by
improving ties between Russia and Japan development of
Sakhalin would help Japan's chances of recovering its
northern islands, which were captured by the Russians in the
closing days of the Second World War.
   Losers in the contract decision include several large
European, Asian, and U.S. oil and engineering companies --
including Exxon Corp. and Mobil Corp. -- along with a
Japanese consortium that had been trying since 1975 for a
crack at the oil fields.
   Under the agreement, the consortium will negotiate with
Russian officials on terms of a feasibility study for the
project. The study itself will run from April through the end
of the year.
   The group plans to begin producing oil in 1995. Any gas
produced will initially be piped to industrial centers in
Siberia, but by 1999 a liquifaction plant is expected to be
in operation, making it possible to ship liquefied natural
gas to overseas customers.
   Mitsui officials said that they plan to handle marketing
of the oil produced by the consortium and that the oil's most
likely destination would be into nearby Japan. The U.S.
companies are expected to provide most of the technical
expertise for oil production.
   The project "will contribute to the diversification of
energy sources for Japan, and to the economic and resource
development of Russia," Mr. Kumagaya said.
   The award by the Russian republic comes as a severe blow
to Japan's Sakhalin Oil Development Co., or Sodeco, which was
set up for the sole purpose of developing Sakhalin. Sodeco,
which spent about $180 million exploring the area, had been
waiting since 1975 to develop Sakhalin. Conditions for
developing the fields changed under perestroika, and the
company was forced to join with Exxon and C. Itoh  Co. in a
bid on the field.