Who's News:
   Postmaster General Frank to Step Down,
   Ending a Controversial Four-Year Stay
   ----
   By Albert R. Karr
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
At a news conference announcing his decision to leave, Mr.
Frank said he felt four years at the helm was long enough and
the Postal Service is on the road to accomplishing many
things he set out to do. He also cited family health reasons
as involved in his decision.
   Mr. Frank, who is 60 years old, will become chairman of
Acrogen Inc., San Francisco, a closely held biotechnology
company that he co-founded in 1987. But that will be a
part-time job.
   Prior to his taking the job, the Postal Service had three
chiefs in 2 1/2 years. "Nobody's ever served four years --
and I know why," Mr. Frank quipped.
   At his news conference, Mr. Frank noted that while heading
the postal agency, he has pushed forward a major automation
program that by 1995 will save over $4 billion a year and
allow the service to do more work with 100,000 fewer
employees than it would have otherwise needed. So far, more
than 40,000 jobs have been cut, without layoffs, he said.
   The agency has also achieved modest labor contracts
allowing more workplace flexibility, put into effect the
first outside system for measuring the speed of mail service,
and formed a strategic business plan.
   Groups representing businesses that rely on mass mailings
yesterday praised Mr. Frank's record. But he has frequently
been the focus of controversy in the past four years. While
he sought to limit the size and frequency of rate increases,
his decision last year to seek rises of nearly 20%, including
a five-cent boost in the first-class rate to 30 cents,
produced volleys of criticism. Much of the need for the rate
rises came from Congress's decision last year to saddle the
Postal Service with nearly $5 billion in added
retiree-benefit costs, Mr. Frank has said.
   Consumer advocate Ralph Nader, for one, has constantly
attacked Mr. Frank and the postal board of governors, and has
called for Mr. Frank's resignation. Mr. Nader has said they
haven't done much to reduce woeful inefficiency and that they
serve the interests of business mailers at the expense of
individual postal users.
   Mr. Frank and the rate commission have been at odds for
some time, over the size and nature of rate increases, and
over what Mr. Frank has called a cumbersome rate-making
process.
   American Postal Workers President Moe Biller has also
often said Mr. Frank should quit. Mr. Biller has especially
protested the agency's plans to use lowerwage outside
contractors to handle certain mail-coding operations by
remote video.
   Mr. Frank has also been variously criticized by some
members of Congress for allowing costly travel expenses and
bonuses for postal officials, and for seeking new revenue
from nontraditional ventures and for the agency's
co-sponsorship of the 1992 Olympics.
   Early in his tenure, he sought to enlist the help of Texas
industrialist Ross Perot in what was to be, at first, a
nonprofit contract recommending changes in many postal
operations. But after General Motors Corp. went to court and
Congress and the General Services Administration investigated
the plan for not using an open contract-bidding process, Mr.
Frank dropped the plan.