Marketing  Media -- Advertising:
   NBC Drops Shows Older People Favor
   ----
   By Kevin Goldman
That, it turns out, is the problem. The two series perform
far worse among the under-50 crowd that is the most coveted
target for sponsors: "Heat" runs 65th and "Matlock" ranks
83rd among all primetime shows this season. In their place,
NBC is likely to try new shows with younger appeal.
   "NBC is conforming to the preferences of the advertising
community instead of trying to change the world," says Jerome
Dominus, senior vice president at ad agency J. Walter
Thompson. News Corp.'s Fox network "has made a fortune saying
they aren't interested in people 50-plus. NBC is learning
from this."
   In some ways NBC is a victim of its own success. Instead
of developing new hits, it stayed with some programs perhaps
longer than it should have. That let it continue to win the
household ratings race, but NBC also began losing the more
important, younger demographic race as its audience aged with
its shows.
   Now the median age of the NBC viewer is 42 years old -- up
from age 39 just two TV seasons ago. At ABC, by contrast, the
median viewer age is 36 years old, and at Fox it's only 28.
Only CBS's median age is older -- 44 years old. Overall, 44%
of all NBC viewers have passed age 50, up by one percentage
point in three years.
   The NBC network, owned by General Electric Co.,
acknowledges it is in a period of transition and must shed
some veteran shows. The two cancellations are only part of
the major restructuring of NBC's once potent prime-time
line-up. In September, NBC will lose "The Cosby Show," whose
final episode will be taped this evening in the Astoria,
Queens, section of New York. NBC also is losing the
once-popular "Night Court." And "The Golden Girls" will
return with a new format and without co-star Bea Arthur.
   Further, its Thursday schedule is besieged by
unprecedented competition from its three major rivals.
"Cheers" has shown signs of erosion and "L.A. Law" is having
creative difficulties, recently dismissing its executive
producer and bringing back co-creator Steven Bochco.
   NBC originally had added the two older-skewing series to
offer up the audience to those sponsors that wanted to reach
the over-50 set. The two canceled shows were quickly snatched
up by rivals, with Capital Cities/ABC Inc.'s ABC network
acquiring "Matlock" and CBS Inc.'s CBS network buying "In the
Heat of the Night," for much the same reason.
   "We realize the strategic importance to attract an older
audience at least one night of the week," says Larry Hyams,
ABC's director of audience research.
   Ultimately, NBC told the producers of "In the Heat of the
Night" that it needed to move "onward and upward and thanks
for the four years," says Edward B. Gradinger, president of
MGM Worldwide Television Group, a unit of MGM-Pathe
Communications Co. "They're going to try to be more like Fox
and ABC."
   "I would call this a rather dramatic move on their part,"
says David F. Poltrack, a CBS senior vice president. "Older
viewers are a very important part of the prime time audience
and it's one we'll continue to appeal to."
   NBC executives say they aren't looking to make a dramatic
right-turn in the schedule. Rather, "we're trying to
gradually transition an increasingly older-skewing schedule
into one that features younger shows with overall younger
demographics, which is more consistent to what advertisers
are buying," says Perry Simon, NBC's No. 2 programming
executive.
   "We have no intention of turning into a kiddie network,"
he adds, citing "I'll Fly Away" and "Reasonable Doubts," two
dramas that premiered last September, as "serious" shows that
have broad appeal.
   NBC's hopes to snare a younger audience rests on its still
unfolding development season. Top candidates include a
spinoff of Bill Cosby's show starring his wise cracking but
earnest TV son, Malcolm Jamal-Warner. New versions of "Route
66" and "Journey to the Center of the Earth" are due, as are
"Rise and Shine," a situation comedy from the off-center
creators of "Northern Exposure," and comedies from Marcy
Carsey and Tom Werner, the producers of "The Cosby Show,"
starring Robert Townsend, as well as a new show from the
"Cheers" team.
   Bill Croasdale, president of national broadcasting at
Western International Media, characterizes NBC's move as
"smart," but adds ominously, "The mystery is how good the
replacement shows will be."
                                                                                                       

   Whale of an Ad
                                                                                                       

   Chicago agency Leo Burnett's Olympics commercial for UAL
Corp.'s United Airlines, in which two whales seem to swim
through a plane filled with water, made the wrong impression
on some viewers.
   United has heard complaints from a dozen "isolated
individuals," who said the ad conjures up images of an
airliner that crashed and sank into the ocean, a spokeswoman
said. But their view won't keep the company from airing the
spot during the Summer Games. "The plane is clearly on the
tarmac," the spokeswoman insists.
                                                                                                       

   Ad Notes. . . .
                                                                                                       

   ROY ROGERS: Barring any last minute hitches, Imasco Ltd.'s
Hardee's Food Systems is expected to name Jordan, McGrath,
Case  Taylor, New York, the agency for its Roy Rogers
fast-food chain. Ogilvy  Mather, New York, is the incumbent
on the estimated $15 million account.
                                                                                                       

   BURT REYNOLDS: Quaker State Corp. said it had signed a
multiyear agreement with actor Burt Reynolds to appear in TV,
radio and print ads for the motor oil. The company said the
deal was the first national advertising role for Mr.
Reynolds, star of the CBS sitcom "Evening Shade," as well as
Quaker State's first use of a celebrity endorser.
                                                                                                       

   WHO'S NEWS: Frank Hoag, 49 years old, was named chairman
and chief executive officer of Interpublic Group of Cos.'
Lintas: Marketing Communications, succeeding Jim Bernardin,
who retired. Mr. Hoag had been vice chairman and chief
executive officer.