Transco Energy
   Sets Big Charge
   For 4th Quarter
   ----
   By Ann de Rouffignac
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
John P. DesBarres, chief executive officer, expected the
restructuring charge in October as Transco set out to resolve
its many regulatory and legal problems. In a statement
yesterday, he said that $54 million of the charge reflects
the cost of resolving those problems, including a price
discrimination dispute. An additional $63 million is
attributed to a reduction in the book value of the company's
coal-bed methane project. The remaining $25 million of the
charge represents other restructuring costs, Mr. DesBarres
said.
   For its 1990 fourth quarter, Transco reported a net loss
of $11.6 million, or 40 cents a share, after a $34 million
charge, on revenue of $796.9 million.
   In its attempt to cut costs in the fall, Transco slashed
its quarterly common dividend to 15 cents from 34 cents a
share and said it would cut 1992 capital spending and
eliminate 500 jobs, about 13% of its work force. Yesterday,
the company said 400 positions have already been eliminated
through early retirement and voluntary severance packages.
   Transco had expected to cut capital spending to $275
million, but now will cut even deeper, to $252 million, a 48%
drop from 1991 levels. Mr. DesBarres said the reduction "is a
result of more detailed project planning and supports our
intent to limit spending, reduce debt, improve financial
flexibility and restore earnings."
   Despite such measures, Transco and much of the natural-gas
industry remain vulnerable to lingering oversupply and low
prices, affected by another winter of unseasonably warm
temperatures. With a record surplus of gas in U.S. storage
when winter began, many in the industry had counted on cold
weather to reduce supplies and clear the way for high prices.
   Industry analysts seemed to support Transco's
restructuring moves. "Transco hit rock bottom a few weeks ago
and now it's on the way up," said Kurt Launer of Donaldson,
Lufkin  Jenrette. Not only did Transco get an additional
$225 million in credit, said Foster Corwith of Dean Witter
Reynolds, but the new agreement has no strings attached. The
previous bank arrangement limited debt as a percentage of
capital to 70%.
   In composite trading on the New York Stock Exchange
yesterday, Transco share rose 75 cents to $18.625.