Marketing:
   Despite Vocal Critics, Wary Consumers,
   Food Makers Move Toward Irradiation
   ----
   By Richard Gibson
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
This marks a turnaround. Although scientists and
researchers have long believed irradiated food holds great
promise, food companies have been circumspect.
   For one thing, they aren't sure how much more irradiated
foods might cost. For another, they don't want to be zapped
themselves in the marketplace by concerned consumers.
Companies fear boycotts by people opposed to irradiation.
Some, including Quaker Oats Co. and H.J. Heinz Co., have
deflected protesters by agreeing not to sell irradiated
foods, an easily defensible position given the lack of
product.
   But now that's changing:
   -- Turkey growers are urging the White House to approve
poultry-irradiation procedures adopted by the Food and Drug
Administration and the Agriculture Department. "We're tired
of being on the defensive on this food-safety question," says
a spokesman for the National Turkey Federation, a trade
association.
   -- Seafood processors are hoping the technology can
alleviate new safety concerns. "Most big industry members
feel it would add something for consumer confidence," says
Marilyn Kilgen, a Louisiana biologist who will be a
co-chairwoman of a conference on fish irradiation this
summer.
   -- A Florida company that began irradiating strawberries
this year says several chicken processors are eager to use
its facility to gain a competitive edge on larger rivals. The
National Food Processors Association predicts large companies
also will be signing up.
   The Office of Management and Budget, now reviewing
poultry-irradiation regulations, favors the process. "We
support the development and application of this technology,
especially since it appears to have promising public-health
benefits," a senior OMB official recently wrote a
food-industry lobbying group.
   At least 20 nations already irradiate produce and spices.
The World Health Organization encourages the procedure, which
can help combat such harmful micro-organisms as salmonella in
poultry, cholera in fish and trichinosis in pork. It allows
fruits and vegetables to ripen longer on the vine, thus
making them more succulent, and also can retard spoilage.
   "Today 30% of the food in the world is thrown out" because
of spoilage, says Lester Crawford, executive vice president
for scientific affairs at the food processors association.
Irradiation, he says, "would materially cut into that."
   Still, the U.S. food industry has been reluctant to
irradiate. Pork producers say there's no need since
trichinosis can be prevented by adequately cooking the meat.
And despite the current behind-the-scenes push by the turkey
industry, some major poultry companies publicly say they are
in no hurry to irradiate their birds.
   "Near-term, we don't see where we could make a
satisfactory return on capital," says Charles M. Harper,
chairman of ConAgra Inc., a major poultry processor. But he
adds that "everything I've read and been told by our
technical people is that it's absolutely safe." His
counterpart at Geo. A. Hormel  Co., R.L. Knowlton, says, "We
think it has application, but we're not going to fight
consumers."
   Recent opinion samplings indicate shoppers want the option
of buying irradiated foods. "Many say, `We want to try it.
Put it out there. Just label it,'" says Mona Doyle, president
of Consumer Network Inc., which monitors the public's pulse
on food issues.
   Sam Whitney, president of Vindicator Inc., a Mulberry,
Fla., irradiation concern, says he is certain that many food
companies eventually will come around. "We didn't build this
plant to irradiate strawberries so they'd last eight days
longer," he says. "We went into business to save lives and
health-care costs of people being devastated by food-borne
pathogens from poultry and shellfish."
   Protesters picketed when the first irradiated berries
emerged from his plant in January. But consumers snapped up
the fruit, and Mr. Whitney says companies interested in using
the process have been contacting him. However, he also says
some poultry-company executives worry that marketing
irradiated chicken would raise questions about the safety of
non-irradiated birds. "They've called and said, `Sam, we're
selling every bird we kill, so don't rock the boat,'" Mr.
Whitney says.
   Other food-company executives say privately the issue is
no longer one of safety but rather economics. If they're
convinced that irradiation will reassure the public, and
won't cost them market share, they would employ it. "A lot of
industry folks are watching carefully, so that if somebody
has the courage to get out in the forefront and succeeds,
they want to be second, and not third," says George Pauli, an
irradiation expert in the FDA's Center for Food Safety and
Applied Nutrition.
   Supermarkets are leery. "We don't plan on carrying
{irradiated foods}," says a spokeswoman for the Giant Food
Inc. chain in Washington, D.C. But she acknowledges that
position reflects a belief that there's "a lack of consumer
understanding of what irradiation is." A spokesman for the
1,200-store Kroger Co. chain says, "There's no consumer
demand as far as we can tell."
   Representatives of the Interfaith Center on Corporate
Responsibility, a group that takes an anti-irradiation
stance, recently confronted Kroger asking that the company's
shareholders vote on the issue. But Kroger, based in
Cincinnati, got the group to withdraw the proposal after
explaining its reservations. "We're not asking companies to
say this is wrong but just that it's controversial enough
that we're not going to touch it for now," says Pat Daly, a
Dominican sister.
   Irradiation has long been a hot potato. In the mid-1980s
the National Food Processors Association caved in to local
opponents of a proposed irradiating facility in Dublin,
Calif., where the association has a laboratory. Although
irradiation has been used for years in non-food industries --
to sterilize bandages, make non-stick cookware and safeguard
astronauts' meals, for example -- widespread public ignorance
has opened the way for opponents to play the fear card.
   Recent radio commercials opposing Florida's irradiation
plant warned that treated food might cause cancer. Such
unsubstantiated contentions inflame proponents of the
technology, some of whom think food companies should help
educate the public.
   "A frightening number of companies are spineless when it
comes to facing down a vocal group of opponents," says
Barbara Keating-Edh, executive director of Consumer Alert, a
group that favors irradiation. Adds Christine Bruhn, a
food-marketing specialist at the University of California's
Center for Consumer Research: "People are being denied a safe
choice, and I find that outrageous."
   Similar views apparently are behind the turkey
federation's decision to press for irradiation as a
processing option. "The government needs to allow industry to
use any and all available technology to minimize food-borne
pathogens in their products. Irradiation is one way to do
that," says Stuart Procter, federation executive vice
president.
   "In the poultry industry everything is done by brand, so
for you to have a leg up on your competitor in a brand is
very important," Mr. Procter says. "Our guys are saying,
maybe there's a marketing opportunity here." A spokesman for
the chicken processors' National Broiler Council says that
group would jump in if it sensed consumer acceptance of
irradiated poultry.
   But some experts say delay could be dangerous. Calling
irradiation a classic case of "misrepresented science,"
former Atomic Energy Commission Chairwoman Dixy Lee Ray says,
"Unless they get busy, the salmonella problem is going to get
serious. It's much more serious than people realize."