If It's Baroque,
   Let's Fix It, Says
   Ukrainian-American
   ---
   Mrs. Fedoriw Restores a Hotel
   In Lvov to Grand Style;
   Strolling the City in Sable
   ----
   By John J. Fialka
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Lvov (pronounced "le view" in Ukrainian) is a city of
700,000 near the Polish border. It is a classy place, with
four universities and an opera that presents a different
production practically every night. But Lvov's hotels are
decidedly declasse.
   The best of them, run by Intourist, is several notches
below Western luxury-hotel standards. Rooms are cramped,
plumbing ranges from inadequate to amusing, meals are dull.
Phones, television sets and fluffy towels are unheard-of.
   The five-story Grand, built in 1898 to cater to visiting
Viennese nobles and merchants, is another matter. Restored,
it will have ceilings with elaborately carved moldings,
murals with rural themes and lots of stained glass. Rooms
will have modern heating, 20th-century bathrooms, telephones,
television sets and baroque flourishes.
   Expatriate Ukrainians visiting from the U.S. and
interested in their roots should feel quite at home at the
Grand. Mrs. Fedoriw (pronounced "Fedorie") herself studied
Ukrainian as a child. Her father, a music teacher, last saw
Lvov in 1944 when his family fled the approaching Red Army.
They eventually came to the U.S. from a displaced-persons
camp in Germany.
   Mrs. Fedoriw thinks pride of place needs to be restored
here. Which is why she makes a point of strolling around this
sooty city in her sable coat. "It used to be the only way you
could get one of these here was to be the wife of a party
official or the KGB," she says. "I want them to know there is
another way to do it."
   If the old building could talk, it would tell a sad story.
In 1913, with World War I looming, the owner turned the
upstairs into a brothel and rented out parts of the lobby to
an appliance store and a grocer. In 1937, when Lvov was part
of Poland, an inept architect botched a restoration attempt
and the place ended up with sagging walls and warped floors.
   In 1939, after the Soviets invaded Lvov, the Nazis bombed
the city and the concussion from a near-miss cracked a wall.
After the Nazis chased out the Soviets, the hotel was host to
recuperating German soldiers. In 1944 the Soviets returned,
looted the building and turned it, temporarily, into a sewing
factory.
   But nothing was quite as debilitating for the hotel and
Lvov generally as the arrival of the Communist bureaucracy
after the war, which meant the nationalization of businesses
and the end of most normal building maintenance.
   Anatolij F. Ryborak, the vice mayor of Lvov, explains what
has happened to his city: "Look, I take care of my car
because it's mine. I take care of my dacha because it's mine
and my flat because it belongs to me. But the building is not
mine. It belongs to the people, which means nobody takes care
of it."
   Before Mrs. Fedoriw arrived, the Grand Hotel was a mess.
The Communists had converted it back to a hotel in 1948. It
started out as a fleabag and went downhill from there.
   Two years ago, Mrs. Fedoriw complained to a former mayor
of Lvov that his city had no decent accommodations for
Ukrainian-American tourists. "We have some old hotels," she
recalls him saying. "Why don't you take one and fix it up?"
She took him up on an offer made possible by perestroika. She
signed a 15-year lease on the hotel with an option to buy
should private property become legal.
   Mrs. Fedoriw has put more than $480,000 into the hotel.
She plans to open it in late spring as living commercial
proof that Ukrainian construction workers and staff can build
and run a first-class business that also turns a profit.
   It might just. Among the things the Grand Hotel has going
for it apart from Old World charm and modern plumbing is the
competition: the sterile, modern Intourist Hotel. While that
hotel serves dinner from the old Soviet menu, Mrs. Fedoriw
has her restaurant staff combing cookbooks for old Ukrainian
recipes and creating dishes from German menus construction
workers found stuffed in a wall.
   Getting to the point where she has an obvious competitive
advantage hasn't been easy. Rousting three city-owned stores
from the hotel took six months because Lvov has no legal
eviction process. Mrs. Fedoriw spent weeks trying to explain
to her unwelcome tenants that she was the landlord and they
had to go.
   Landlord? "You mean you are trying to be like Stalin was
with us?" she recalls someone asking.
   In a city where construction projects sometimes take
decades, the rebuilding of the Grand Hotel took a little more
than two years. Mrs. Fedoriw is no expert in any of this. The
only other construction job she had ever supervised was
remodeling her house. But what Ukraine seemed to lack until
she came along was a manager who made work conform to a
schedule and a balance sheet. "I'm known here as the
impatient one," she says.
   Judgments depend on perspective. Sometimes Semen Lepsky,
Mrs. Fedoriw's sharp-faced Ukrainian construction engineer,
stands in front of the hotel on Freedom Prospect and puzzles
over the contradictions: "People come by and they say, `Oh,
this is beautiful, and you have done it so quickly.'" Then,
he says, an American engineer hired as an adviser came by.
"He says to me, `Why is this taking so long?'"
   Mychailo P. Zagrebelny, Mrs. Fedoriw's business consultant
in Kiev, says that buying materials for the hotel
reconstruction was quite an adventure. The ruble gyrated from
eight to the dollar a couple of years ago to 140 and back to
100 or so. "Prices are idiotic," he says. Some materials
still sell as if the ruble's buying power were undiminished,
he says.
   Also, old tools such as bribery don't work as well as they
once did. "Under the command system, the bribe was paid and
the deal was done with one phone call from the top," he says.
"Under the new system, a bribe may be given, but there is no
assurance that the deal will be done."
   Josef Bandyrsky, a stocky, stone-faced 60-year-old,
coordinates the construction crews and cares about quality
and on-time performance. He used to run "Building
Organization No. 584," which put up lavish Communist Party
buildings on schedule.
   When the Grand Hotel opens, he will be its manager. He has
no experience running a hotel but says it makes no
difference, because he knows how to organize people.
   It is a capitalist axiom that risk takers get the rewards,
if they don't lose their shirts. Bonnie Burnham, head of the
World Monument Fund in New York, has been studying
restoration problems in Eastern Europe for the Samuel H.
Kress Fund. "The people who go in now have a potential
opportunity to realize a very handsome profit," she says.
"Labor costs are low throughout the region."
   Restoration projects that create new hotels, she says, may
be "almost a guaranteed formula" for success if one is
patient. Investors, Ms. Burnham says, may have to think in
terms of getting their money out in, say, 20 years.