Marketing  Media -- Advertising:
   Some Upscale Campaigns Dare
   To Celebrate the Joy of Spending
   ----
   By Joanne Lipman
"I'm so sick of what's right for the '90s I could throw
up. We all are," says Thomas Losee Jr., publishing director
of Knapp Communications Corp., publisher of magazines Bon
Apetit and Architectural Digest. He's upset that it's
considered "unacceptable or immoral to go out and reward
yourself with quality, whether it's a BMW or a Rolex."
   So in a new trade advertising campaign, Architectural
Digest is boasting that its readers have money to burn and
reassuring them that, hey, that's okay. "The market for
quality never ebbs," the ads promise.
   The magazine follows on the heels of American Express Co.,
perhaps the first to applaud spending in the 1990s. Its ads
include one picturing a young woman admiring a sculpture
above this advice: "Buy what you want to buy . . . You're a
responsible person. Most of the time."
   Range Rover, the utility vehicle from the U.K.'s Rover
Group, took an even more direct tact last month in full-page
ads headlined, "BUY SOMETHING." Says a Range Rover spokesman,
"Before we can sell any product in the current climate, you
have to sell people on the idea of buying. That's what it's
all about."
   Still, selling luxury goods is a delicate task. For one,
the ads offend easily in an era when tens of thousands of
people are losing their jobs. The American Express campaign,
the first from new agency Chiat/Day/Mojo, has been lambasted
in ad industry circles for being too 1980s. "So out of touch
with the times that I had to wonder whether a recovery hit
and I missed it," said reviewer Barbara Lippert in Adweek
magazine.
   Critics also lambast the ads for ignoring evidence that
this recession -- unlike recessions past -- has hit the
well-to-do along with everybody else. Luxury sales have
declined so precipitously that many luxury-goods companies
have all but stopped advertising; ad pages in high-end
magazines including Architectural Digest are off close to
30%. Earlier this week, the Commerce Department reported that
for all of 1991, retail sales edged up a paltry 0.7%, the
smallest increase in 30 years.
   Ads that assume there are plenty of prosperous people out
there, and that they simply need to be cajoled into opening
their wallets, are "outdated," says Martin S. Walker, of
Periodical Studies Service. He believes Architectural
Digest's new campaign, for one, is "a 1992 campaign taking a
1990 approach, pushing the whole concept that the very rich
still have money to do what they want."
   The people behind the "don't worry-spend money" ads don't
have much choice. They can't market their products to anyone
but the rich, even if that is a dwindling audience. So they
figure their best bet is to try to convince anybody who still
has money to spend more of it.
   The advertisers are also counting on the ultra-rich.
Architectural Digest in particular hangs its new trade
campaign, which broke this week, on that group. Its ads give
a nod to the demise of the nouveau riche, who minted and
spent instant fortunes in the '80s, but who have dropped from
sight today.
   "On the difference between extravagant and elegant," says
the headline of one of the new ads. "On the difference
between pretentious and polished," says another. The latter
ad contrasts two women, one of whom buys a painting only for
its signature and other "superficial" reasons; the other --
the Architectural Digest reader -- places a greater premium
on the "artistic sensibility" and "craftsmanship."
   The magazine is trying to send a message to luxury
advertisers that "there are lots of people out there who will
always be willing to pay for expensive, enduring products,"
says Leonard Sacks, president of Architectural Digest's ad
agency, Sacks  Rosen. Luxury manufacturers "shouldn't be
embarrassed that there's a specific market they cater to."
   "In this mad rush to disown everything about the '80s,"
Mr. Sacks adds, "I think people are overreacting."
   ---
   Young  Rubicam Fires 42
                                                                                                       

   Young  Rubicam, New York, dismissed 42 employees from its
New York unit, after announcing last month it would fire as
many as 90 in the new year.
   The dismissals, which cut across the creative, account
services and media departments, represented about 3.5% of the
agency's 1,192-member work force, a company spokesman said.
He noted that the dismissals amounted to less than half of
the anticipated total, while acknowledging that an
undetermined number of jobs had been eliminated through
attrition since the firings were forecast.
   ---
   BBDO's Canadian Plans
                                                                                                       

   Omnicom Group's BBDO unit said it will own the largest ad
agency in Canada if shareholders approve its plans to acquire
two large Toronto agencies and merge them.
   BBDO said it intends to acquire Ayer, New York's 45% stake
in McKim Advertising Ltd. as well as the majority stake of
the agency owned by its president and chief executive James
M. Anderson. In addition, BBDO plans to buy all of Baker
Lovick/BBDO, in which it currently has a 49% stake. Industry
executives said the subsequent merger, to form McKim Baker
Lovick/BBDO, could occur by the end of the week. Mr. Anderson
will be chairman and chief executive of the new agency, which
BBDO said will have billings of more than $320 million.
   ---
   Philip Morris Hires Fuller
                                                                                                       

   Craig L. Fuller, president and chief executive of the U.S.
unit of WPP Group's Hill  Knowlton, is moving to Philip
Morris Cos. to head its corporate affairs department.
   Mr. Fuller headed Hill  Knowlton's U.S. division for a
scant three months before jumping to the tobacco and food
company giant as a senior vice president. His predecessor at
Philip Morris, Guy Smith IV, left Philip Morris to join Hill
 Knowlton as chief operating officer in October. Hill 
Knowlton said Mr. Fuller's successor would be named soon.
   ---
   Ad Notes. . . .
                                                                                                       

   UNISYS: Bozell, New York, snared Unisys Corp.'s world-wide
ad account, estimated at $8 million. Bozell bested finalists
FCB/LGK, Philadelphia, a unit of Foote, Cone  Belding
Communications, and Lord, Dentsu  Partners, New York. The
incumbent, Young  Rubicam, New York, opted out of the
competitive review in November, instead sending Lord, Dentsu,
which it co-owns with Japanese agency Dentsu.
                                                                                                       

   UNCOLA: New commercials reviving 7-Up's "Uncola" theme are
set to break during the Super Bowl broadcast on CBS. Three
spots, via Leo Burnett Co., Chicago, mark the first Super
Bowl outing for Dr. Pepper/Seven-Up Cos.' 7-Up and Diet 7-Up
brands and a return to their positioning as "cola
alternatives." The spots will be narrated by actor Daniel
Stern.