Economy:
   Bush Advisers
   Link Fed Policy,
   Slow Economy
   ---
   Rates Should Have Fallen
   `Faster and Earlier,' Says
   Report by Economists
   ----
   By David Wessel
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The council stops short of calling for further rate cuts,
but it notes that short-term interest rates, adjusted for
inflation, "are higher than they have been during many
comparable periods in the past."
   Michael Boskin, the council's chairman, told reporters
yesterday that the Fed shouldn't have to raise interest
rates, even if the economy rebounds at a quicker pace than
most forecasters expect. Because inflationary pressures are
abating, he said, "we wouldn't be in a position when monetary
policy would have to apply the brakes if we start doing
better."
   President Bush, in a three-page introduction to the
report, said "recent economic problems are a reminder that
even a well-functioning economy faces the risk of temporary
setbacks." He added that the "conditions to generate economic
growth are falling into place" and that congressional
approval of his recent economic initiative would "speed,
strengthen and sustain economic recovery and, simultaneously,
. . . provide a firmer basis for long-term growth."
   Mr. Boskin said the administration anticipates a sluggish
economy this year, with little, if any, growth in the current
quarter and a pickup later in the year. Enactment of the
president's proposals would make the recovery "quicker,
stronger and more certain," he said.
   The 278-page report includes, among other things, the
administration's most comprehensive attempt so far to rebut
charges from Democrats that the rich are getting richer and
the poor are getting poorer -- and that the Reagan and Bush
administrations are partly to blame.
   While the administration's critics concentrate on how the
economic pie is sliced, the White House focuses more on the
size of the pie. "Over the long term," the council says,
"incomes for families and households in each part of the
income distribution have increased substantially."
   And while Democrats tend to look strictly at taxes, the
administration would broaden the debate to take government
benefit programs into account, too. The council acknowledges
that the distribution of income has become more uneven in
recent years, but the statistic-studded chapter demonstrates
that -- taken together -- taxes and government benefit
programs are a potent tool for reducing disparities between
rich and poor.
   "The amount of redistribution within the tax system hasn't
changed significantly since the mid-1970s," it asserts.
What's more, government benefit programs, which generally
help the poor more than the rich, are far more significant.
The richest 20% of American households paid an average of
$22,000 to state and federal governments, taking both taxes
and benefits into account; the poorest 20% received an
average of $8,800.
   The essay is carefully worded to avoid the word
"inequality," stating at one point that "the distribution of
income has gradually grown more dispersed since the
mid-1960s."
   The council notes that income came to be distributed more
unevenly in several other countries during the 1980s,
suggesting that something other than government policy is to
blame.