REVIEW & OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   The Cheshire Congress
Everyone knows the real power in Congress comes from
chairing a committee. And chairmen know that so long as they
scratch the backs of other Members, they can probably hold on
to that power indefinitely.
   "Some committee chairmen are more feared than the House
leadership," Mr. McCurdy says. "Our intent is to reduce the
possible arrogance that comes from having no accountability."
His fellow heretic, Rep. Dan Glickman of Kansas, says
chairmen lose touch with the country, since they "take on an
aura of power that isolates them from what's happening."
   In 1981, the year Ronald Reagan became president, three
House Members became chairmen of key committees: Dan
Rostenkowski of Ways and Means, Kika de la Garza of
Agriculture and John Dingell of Energy and Commerce. Since
then they have more or less held a hammerlock on the
public-policy issues under their jurisdiction.
   Mr. Dingell, often called the House's "Chairmonster,"
employs bully-boy tactics to constantly expand the authority
of his committee. His army of 200 staffers are the most
feared and out-of-control shock troops in Washington. Mr.
Rostenkowski, who performed well in the 1986 tax-reform
debate, is now blocking a desperately needed cut in the
capitalgains tax. Mr. de la Garza has stymied any real reform
of the nation's Soviet-style agricultural policies.
   Each of these men secured his power largely by virtue of
seniority, not merit. They had to serve an average of 21
years before their turn at bat came. It shouldn't surprise
anyone that they and other chairmen are often more interested
in protecting their hard-won turf than pushing through a
substantive agenda.
   Richard E. Cohen, author of a new book on Congress called
"Washington at Work," says that having entrenched chairmen
may have contributed to a 10-year stalemate in rewriting the
Clean Air Act. Mr. Dingell and Rep. Henry Waxman, chairman of
a key health subcommittee, are bitter adversaries and their
feud helped kill sensible reform of the Act throughout the
entire Reagan presidency.
   Mr. McCurdy points out that term limits are already
imposed on some House chairmen. He himself chairs the
Intelligence Committee and can serve only a maximum of six
years. Ditto the chairman of the Budget Committee. But the
power of the remaining chairmen is such that few expect Mr.
McCurdy's proposal to pass any time soon. He says many of his
colleagues have privately expressed support, but "they're
glad someone else is proposing it."
   It's encouraging to see that some Members of Congress have
discovered the wisdom of term limits, albeit only for
committee chairmen. We'd be even happier to see them attack
the virus of political careerism by imposing term limits on
all Members. Come to think of it, they wouldn't need formal
limits. Throughout most of our history, Members practiced
self-limitation, voluntarily giving up their positions to
return to private life. At some point Members, like Friday's
session, faded away.