Technology:
   Gateway Appears to Pass Dell Computer
   As Leader of U.S. Mail-Order PC Market
   ----
   By Michael Allen
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Dell, of Austin, Texas, which took the industry by storm
by pioneering the direct delivery channel, enjoyed phenomenal
growth itself in the fiscal year ended Feb. 2, 1992. Sales
rose 63% to $889.9 million from $546.2 million in the prior
period, at a time when most PC makers are suffering.
   But about 36% of Dell's sales in the latest year took
place abroad, as part of a rapid expansion in Europe. Since
virtually all of Gateway's sales are domestic, the latest
figures indicate Gateway has edged past Dell in the U.S.
market.
   What's more, Gateway appears to have done so profitably,
confounding skeptics who have said the company's policy of
drastically undercutting the prices of its rivals meant
growth could only have come at the expense of the bottom
line.
   Releasing earnings information for the first time, Gateway
said pretax profit totaled $59.7 million last year, more than
double the $25.2 million of 1990. Although Gateway declined
to provide operating margins or final profit figures, the
available numbers indicate that the company may in fact be
even more profitable than Dell: Gateway's pretax profit as a
percentage of total sales was 9.5%, compared with Dell's
8.2%.
   Rick Snyder, Gateway's executive vice president, said the
company decided to release the profit numbers to answer
questions about its stability. "We have one of the nicest
balance sheets around," he said, adding that Gateway has less
than $4 million in long-term debt, a line of credit it hasn't
used since last spring, and "in excess of $25 million in the
bank."
   Still, questions persist about Gateway's ability to cope
with its rapid expansion since 1987, when it rang up sales of
just $1.5 million. Industry observers say the company in
particular needs to iron out snags in its customer service
and technical support operations, crucial functions for
buyers whose only contact with Gateway may be over the phone.
   "Any time you have the kind of growth they've had, the
wheels have to get kind of wobbly, if not fall off," said
Gregory E. Herrick, chairman of rival Zeos International
Ltd., a St. Paul, Minn., PC maker that's also had to adjust
to fast growth.
   Gateway's 29-year-old co-founder and president, Ted Waitt,
acknowledged that there have been some problems, but said the
company is well on its way to fixing them. It plans to move
into a new manufacturing facility soon, having outgrown a
series of other buildings. Meanwhile, he said, the company
has "a major training issue we're getting under control in
the technical support area."