Economy:
   Slow Japanese Growth Rate Is Giving
   Nation's Business Establishment Jitters
   ----
   By Clay Chandler
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
A few days earlier, Foreign Minister Michio Watanabe
created a swirl of controversy by suggesting that Japan's
economy was in such sad shape that the government was
considering redenominating the yen to stimulate growth.
   Even as Finance Minister Tsutomu Hata dismissed the idea,
his colleagues in Japan's ruling Liberal Democratic Party
were hastily preparing a grab bag of proposals aimed at
propping up the nation's ravaged stock market. The LDP's
rescue package, unveiled Friday, urged Japanese companies to
raise their dividend ratios, and called for a review of taxes
imposed on stockholders. The LDP plan also suggested changes
in laws that prohibit Japan's companies from trading their
own shares.
   Shin Kanemaru, one of the most powerful figures in the
LDP, added to the sense of panic by publicly calling on the
Bank of Japan to reduce interest rates.
   Why all the worry?
   The reasons aren't hard to find. Since the collapse of the
"bubble economy," the wave of financial hyperactivity sparked
by loose-money policies in the late 1980s, many of Japan's
major economic indicators have gone from robust to rotten.
Inventories are piling up, corporate profits are plunging,
the number of corporate bankruptcies keeps rising, and the
stock market is in shambles.
   "Japan's economy is showing its weakest growth since the
1974 oil shock," says Peter Morgan, chief economist with the
Tokyo office of Barclays de Zoete Wedd Ltd.
   The full extent of the business sector's worries won't be
evident until the beginning of March, when the Bank of Japan
releases the results of the latest, a quarterly survey of
business conditions. The survey, which polls an exhaustive
range of companies on their expectations for the economy, is
considered the most comprehensive measure of the nation's
economic health. Many analysts think the March tankan will
show a sharp deterioration in business confidence since the
previous study was released in November.
   However, gloomy business sentiment here can be misleading.
Japan's business and political leaders are famous for
excessive jitters when it comes to the health of their
economy. They take for granted economic growth rates that
would delight their counterparts in other industrial nations.
Indeed, analysts are so inured to the notion of high growth
that it has become a convention to regard an expansion rate
of less than 3% as recessionary.
   Officials at the Economic Planning Agency estimate that
Japan's gross national product, the broadest measure of the
nation's output of goods and services, will exceed 3% for the
next several years. Planning agency forecasts call for the
economy to grow 3.7% in the current fiscal year, which ends
March 31, and 3.5% the following year. The economy grew 5.7%
in the year ended March 31, 1991.
   Many private economists are less sanguine. Mr. Morgan, for
example, expects Japan's economy will grow 3.2% this fiscal
year, and only 2.5% the following year. He and analysts at
the Tokyo offices of several other prominent non-Japanese
financial institutions believe that if economic recovery
takes hold in the U.S. before fall, the U.S. could actually
achieve a higher annualized growth rate than Japan for the
second half of 1992.
   But few Japanese analysts, including even the pessimists,
think their economy will get that bad. "Impossible," says
Takahiro Yanai, manager of the research division of
Mitsubishi Bank Ltd., referring to the chances for Japan's
economic growth to trail that of the U.S.
   The consensus among economists at Japan's big banks and
securities houses is that the current deceleration will run
its course in the coming months, with growth picking up later
in the year. "Japan's is the only economy in the world
capable of a V-shaped recovery right now," says Jesper Koll,
chief economist at the Tokyo branch of S.G. Warburg
Securities Ltd.
   Still, the Bank of Japan will confront strong pressure to
ease monetary policy further if next month's tankan shows an
acute downturn in business sentiment. Since July 1991, the
central bank has cut the official discount rate, which is the
rate it charges on its loans to banks, by 1.5 percentage
points to 4.5%. Many analysts expect the Bank of Japan to
lower the discount rate an additional percentage point before
July.
   Richard Koo, an economist at Nomura Research Institute,
argues that further easing is unlikely. "The economy is
decelerating, but from a very high level," he notes. With
conditions in Japan's labor market still extremely tight,
central bank officials will retain "lingering concerns about
inflation," he says.