Commodities:
   China, Southeast Asian Nations Expected to Be
   Influential Players in Metals Market This Year
   ----
   By Neil Behrmann
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
Although base metals prices are higher than their
depressed levels of the past few months, they are still well
below peaks of 1988 and 1989. China is keen to buy metals
cheaply, the metals dealer says.
   Purchasing agents from China tend to be bargain-hunters,
agrees Amir Weissfisch, director of trading at Lambert Metals
Ltd. in London. China's agents don't chase prices and
shrewdly sell some holdings when prices rally, he says.
Besides base metals such as copper and nickel, China is a
buyer of such metals as cobalt, Mr. Weissfisch says. But
there is a two-way trade, he says, because China is an active
exporter of antimony, tungsten and tin.
   China's import requirements of copper this year are
estimated at 200,000 to 250,000 tons, says Hans Murmann,
managing director of Metallgesellschaft Ltd., the London
metal trading arm of the German company. He says the nation
bought copper from Chile and Japan and refined and scrap
metal from Japanese, European and other international
merchants and producers.
   So far this year, China's copper purchases have amounted
to around 60,000 tons, half of which was bought directly from
Chile, estimates Robin Bhar, a metals analyst at Carr Kitcat
 Aitken, London stock brokers.
   Dealers frantically covered their short positions this
year when they noticed that China was a buyer, says William
Adams, an analyst at Rudolf Wolff  Co., London metals
brokers. Traders cover their short positions, or bets that
prices will fall, by buying offsetting futures contracts;
this buying helps push prices up.
   China also bought around 15,000 tons of nickel, he says.
   An increase in purchases from China indicates that there
is a change in its trading patterns from recent years,
analysts say. Metals imports fell sharply between 1988 and
1991, compared with some earlier periods when large Chinese
orders sent shock waves through the market, says Mr. Bhar of
Carr Kitcat  Aitken. Now there are signs that imports,
particularly of copper and nickel, will rise again, he says.
   China produces more aluminum, zinc, lead and tin than it
consumes, he says. But the economy is growing so rapidly that
the nation will be forced to import more in future years, he
says.
   Buoyant capital investment and construction will boost
demand for metals such as copper and nickel, Mr. Bhar says.
As China's economy expands and its people demand more autos,
refrigerators, washing machines and other durables,
manufacturers will require more aluminum, zinc, lead and tin,
he says.
   Even if the U.S. economic recovery is muted, economies of
developing nations, especially South Korea, Taiwan, Hong Kong
and Thailand, are still growing briskly and will be buying
more metals, analysts say.
   Asian, South American and some less developed countries'
demand for metals will be "a good deal stronger" this year
than industrialized countries, says the Economist
Intelligence Unit, a consulting unit of the Economist
magazine.
   While Asian countries aren't immune to recession in the
U.S., Japan or Europe, they are "endowed with a fair measure
of independent vigor," a study by the unit says.
   Among developing nations, the leaders' share of Western
manufacturing output rose to 19% in 1990 from 12% in 1973. As
a result, their portion of aluminum consumption soared to
18.4% in 1990 from 8.1% in 1973; to 18.3% from 7.2% for
copper; to 22.2% from 12.4% for lead; to 24.8% from 11.9% for
zinc; to 24.1% from 10.9% for tin; and to 11.7% from 2.3% for
nickel, the Economist unit says.
   Nations such as South Korea, Taiwan, Thailand, India,
Malaysia, Turkey, Brazil and Mexico account for about
three-quarters of this metals demand, the report says.
   The trend will continue this year, the report predicts,
estimating that metals consumption by those nations may rise
5.5% in 1992.
   ---
   Looking ahead to commodity markets this week:
                                                                                                       

   Grains and Soybeans
                                                                                                       

   Traders will be watching for the results of the first
monthly report on soybean crush, the process of converting
soybeans to their byproducts of meal and oil. Reporting
procedures for the soybean crush are changing from a
quarterly to a monthly posting, and many analysts are
expecting the first one -- which is due out Wednesday -- to
show a record crush. This would indicate that demand for
soybean products isn't keeping pace with supply and probably
would pull soybean futures prices down at the Chicago Board
of Trade.
   The market will also watch to see whether Russia, as
expected, pays $25 million it owes on previous grain
shipments and remains credit-worthy for additional export
allocations from the Bush administration. Russian President
Boris Yeltsin has asked the administration for an additional
$200 million in export credits to buy U.S. grains, mostly
wheat and corn. A positive decision by the administration
would be expected to exert upward pressure on wheat and corn
futures prices.