Corporate Focus:
   Comsat Sees Growth Despite Expanding Competition
   ---
   Satellite Concern Faces Challenges
   From Fiber Optics, Deregulation
   ----
   By Lourdes Lee Valeriano
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Bruce Crockett, who takes over this month as Comsat's
chief executive officer, is facing the prospect of
rough-and-tumble competition with equanimity and plans to
steer a simple course for this company-in-transition. "We
don't have to be very fancy," says the 55-year-old Mr.
Crockett, who has been president since April. "I'm just going
to keep the divisions on track and manage growth."
   With satellite communications traffic swelling 15% to 20%
a year and satellite costs coming down, "I don't know of any
better business," says James McCabe, an analyst with Nomura
Research Institute in New York. Comsat estimates 1991 revenue
totaled more than $500 million, up 9% from 1990, and up 39%
from four years ago.
   Mr. Crockett has estimated that Comsat will post net of
about $43.5 million, or $2.30 a share, for all of 1991,
including a $40 million to $45 million pretax charge against
fourth-quarter earnings for post-retirement employee health
benefits. Accounting rules require companies to take these
charges by the end of 1992.
   The company's experience in nonregulated areas has been
far from successful, as Mr. Crockett knows. During his 12
years at this one-time monopoly, he has seen the company
stumble into a couple of costly diversifications, including a
stake in the Denver Nuggets basketball team. Now Comsat has
shed most of these and is focusing on its basic satellite
operations.
   It is a business that Comsat, based in Washington, helped
create but no longer has all to itself. Formed in 1963 to set
up and run a global communications satellite system, Comsat
still owns 23% of that system, a 119-country consortium
called Intelsat. Later it formed the Inmarsat group to
provide communications to ships.
   In the past 10 years, Comsat has been grappling with
deregulation and the growing challenge from fiber optics as
an alternative technology. The Federal Communications
Commission a few years ago dropped the requirement that
limited the volume of long-distance traffic that could be
carried by fiber-optic cables. Last November, regulators
allowed private satellite companies more access to the public
telephone network; such companies already can compete to
provide broadcast and digital services. And in 1997, private
satellite companies probably will be allowed to supply
satellite links for long-distance calls from the U.S., a
service that makes up the largest chunk of Comsat's business.
   But there seems to be enough business to go around. "All
this means is that Comsat could lose market share, but it's
in a market that's growing," says George R. Dellinger, an
analyst with County Natwest USA in Washington. Mr. Dellinger
predicts Comsat's earnings will grow about 12% annually
through the 1990s.
   In long-distance voice communications, which accounts for
about a third of the company's revenue, Comsat has cut rates
to entice American Telephone  Telegraph Co., MCI
Communications Corp. and the U.S. Sprint unit of United
Telecommunications Corp. into extending long-term contracts.
Rates have dropped 70% over the last three years, Mr.
Crockett says. While these customers are also Comsat's
fiberoptic rivals, they use satellites to reach places that
aren't wired and as back-up for any disruptions on
fiber-optic lines.
   The prospect of competition may make the FCC more likely
to grant Comsat's request for looser regulation in the
long-distance business, analysts say. Comsat recently
proposed to replace traditional rate-based regulation with a
price ceiling, but no limit on profits. Analysts say this
will put Comsat's revenue growth closer to usage growth.
Comsat has had to cut rates to stay within the specified rate
of return.
   Despite these pluses, "we have to run real fast just to
keep our revenue standing still" in the fixed-satellite
business, which includes long-distance service, Mr. Crockett
says. "If we can grow that business 3% a year in terms of
revenue, we're doing a good job."
   The real engine of Comsat's growth is its mobile
communications operation, which sends signals to mobile
antennas. Built only in the last 10 years, it began by
providing satellite services to offshore oil platforms and
spread to ships and mobile phones. Because Comsat already has
competition from other members of the Inmarsat consortium,
the business is more loosely regulated. Mr. Crockett
estimates 1991 revenue at $125 million, up from $25 million
in 1985.
   The mobile communications operation is "a jewel of a
business" that is expected to grow 30% a year, says Mr.
Dellinger of County Natwest. Mr. Crockett says mobile
communications could account for more than half of revenues
by mid-1990, compared with 25% today.
   The bulk of this enterprise is providing telephone and
data communications services to ships. But the product with
the most promise is satellite service to airlines, a business
that began only in 1990 but is expected to boom once airlines
step up orders of new aircraft equipped to received such
signals. The system would be used for navigation as well as
air-to-ground communications.
   Mr. Crockett concedes that Comsat, a company more known
for engineers, lobbyists and lawyers rather than MBAs, must
become more customer-oriented. Since he was named president
in April 1991, he has sought to hire and promote executives
with more experience in nonregulated businesses.
   As for the touchy issue of Comsat's diversification, the
company has been looking for buyers for Video Enterprises,
the remaining business outside of its core operations. But
Mr. Crockett says he is in no hurry to sell.
   Video Enterprises, which provides video entertainment to
hotels, generally has been losing money since 1987. In 1990,
it took a $97.6 million pretax charge to cover the write-down
of assets and layoffs, but is still likely to report a loss
for 1991. The division's head, Robert Wussler, resigned last
month, citing Comsat's refusal to move into the home
pay-per-view market.
   The company recently acquired a $14 million stake in On
Command Video Corp., which provides pay-per-view service to
luxury hotels. Mr. Crockett says this should help Video
Enterprises broaden its market.
   Comsat also holds a 63% stake in the loss-plagued Denver
Nuggets, which Video Enterprises bought to participate in
sports programming. Mr. Crockett says the first priority is
to improve management. "Once there's stability there, we can
consider what to do."
   Mr. Crockett points to the decision not to pursue the home
pay-per-view market as a sign of Comsat's new diversification
philosophy. He doesn't rule out future diversification, but
says any such forays won't be capital intensive and won't be
technology driven, the main flaws of its diversification
follies, which included satellite manufacturing and
broadcasting. "We were trying to force-fit satellites to
certain applications and they were not always the best
solution."
   That could be good news to investors, who have seen the
company's earnings drained by those blunders. But, says Mr.
Dellinger, "the burden is on the company and management to
show that they can diversify profitably."
   ---
                   Comsat by the Numbers
                                                                                                       

                     The Fundamentals
                                                                                                       

                   In millions of dollars
                                                                                                       

                                        1990        1989
                                                                                                       

   SALES                              $456.80     $411.50
   NET INCOME (Loss)                  ($16.30)*    $62.50
   DIVIDENDS PER SHARE                 ($0.87)*     $3.00
                                                                                                       

   MAJOR PRODUCT LINES:
                                                                                                       

   Satellite voice, data and video transmissions to long
distance carriers; television networks and corporate
customers; satellite telephone and data service to ships;
aircraft and mobile phones; pay-per-view video service to
hotel industry; and consulting and satellite technology
services.
                                                                                                       

   MAJOR COMPETITORS:
                                                                                                       

   Alpha Lyracom Space Communications Inc.; Spectradyne Co.;
IDB Communications Group Inc.; fiber-optic cable providers
such as American Telephone  Telegraph; cellular telephone
providers like McCaw Cellular Communications Inc.
   ---
   Corrections  Amplifications
                                                                                                       

   COMMUNICATIONS SATELLITE Corp.'s chief executive officer,
Bruce Crockett, is 47 years old. His age was misstated in a
previous edition. In addition, the company posted a per-share
loss of 87 cents in 1990 and a per-share profit of $3 in
1989. An accompanying table was incorrect.
   (WSJ Feb. 14, 1992)