Bertelsmann Said
   To Plan to Buy
   Manhattan Site
   ----
   By Neil Barsky
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Citicorp, the agent bank on a defaulted $250 million
mortgage, has been negotiating with Bertelsmann for more than
six months. The fate of the 42-story tower has come to be
viewed as a barometer of how much real estate values have
dropped in New York over the past three years. As of last
summer, the negotiating price was in the neighborhood of $100
million. It is believed that capital improvements in the
empty structure could cost Bertelsmann an additional $50
million.
   Placing the building in bankruptcy protection, which
occurred late last week, is a way for Citicorp, Bertelsmann
and developer Bruce Eichner to conclude a plan of
reorganization that would shift ownership to Bertelsmann,
real estate industry people said. Citicorp was lead-lender on
the mortgage, and syndicated about 75% of it to a consortium
of 16 Japanese lenders. Real estate industry officials said
the bankruptcy filing is a prepackaged arrangement that has
the agreement of lenders to a reorganization plan.
   The large consortium has made negotiating the deal
particularly difficult, since any agreement requires the
approval of all 16 lenders. Spokesmen at Citicorp and
Bertelsmann declined comment. Mr. Eichner didn't return phone
calls.
   The building, located at 1540 Broadway, was one of many
new West Side offices constructed in Manhattan in the late
1980s. Two other massive towers in the neighborhood recently
filed for bankruptcy protection as well. Real estate industry
people said Citicorp, which holds a $187 million mortgage on
one of those towers, is negotiating to sell the property to
an overseas buyer.
   Real estate brokers said the Bertelsmann deal could help
unlock the gridlock that's been keeping empty buildings off
the market. With the exception of the Empire State Building,
virtually no sales of major office properties took place in
Manhattan over the past year.