Politics  Policy -- Campaign '92:
   Buchanan, Fighting Bush, Is Himself Attacked
   For His Views About Jews, Israel and the Nazis
   ----
   By James M. Perry
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
But Jack Germond, newspaper columnist and a fixture on
Washington's TV talk shows, disagrees: "I've known Buchanan
now for 20 years. We have agreed on almost nothing, starting
with Richard Nixon. There's not a scintilla of evidence in
all I've known about Pat that he is anti-Semitic.
Wrong-headed, mistaken, yes. Anti-Semitic, no."
   Curiously, both Mr. Buckley and Mr. Germond could be
correct, for they are talking about different forms of
anti-Semitism. Mr. Germond makes his case on a personal
level. He and most of Mr. Buchanan's colleagues agree that
the loquacious right-wing commentator has never shown
personal animus toward individual Jews.
   But Mr. Buckley is talking about something else -- what he
calls "political anti-Semitism," how Mr. Buchanan feels about
"Jews as a group." And on that point, the evidence suggests
Mr. Buchanan is vulnerable.
   The 53-year-old fire-breathing Mr. Buchanan, who is
running in New Hampshire's Republican presidential primary to
drive President Bush from the White House, denies he is
anti-Semitic by any definition. He insists that most
suggestions to the contrary come from enemies who resent his
criticism of many Israeli policies, and who confuse being
anti-Israel with being anti-Semitic.
   Making the case against Mr. Buchanan is an array of
writers, some of them liberal, many of them Jewish. But
joining in the attack are a number of conservatives, some of
whom are not Jewish -- such as Mr. Buckley, founder of
National Review magazine, a publication that Mr. Buchanan
says shaped his political thinking.
   The debate rages around separate but related issues -- Mr.
Buchanan's views on Jews and the state of Israel and his
apparent obsession with the Holocaust and the fate of several
people charged with being Nazi war criminals.
   Mr. Buchanan opposed the Persian Gulf War, and provoked a
storm of controversy with these words, patently inaccurate,
on one of his TV talk shows, "The McLaughlin Group": "There
are only two groups that are beating the drums for war in the
Middle East -- the Israeli defense ministry and its `amen
corner' in the United States."
   The "amen corner" line, Mr. Buchanan said later, was "a
wiseacre crack" and "it was very funny." He said the
pro-Israel lobby tried to get newspapers to kill his column
because of the transgression. None did.
   Mr. Buchanan also described Congress as "Israeli-occupied
territory," an allegation he continues to defend. The
pro-Israel lobby, he says, is the "most powerful lobby in
Washington, which Congress can't stand up to. . . ."
   Mr. Buchanan contended that four key men leading the U.S.
into war were New York Times columnist A.M. Rosenthal, former
Assistant Defense Secretary Richard Perle, former Secretary
of State Henry Kissinger and syndicated columnist Charles
Krauthammer; the names of all four of them, critics noted,
are Jewish.
   At another point he said that when the U.S. went to war,
the U.S. kids "humping up that bloody road to Baghdad" would
have names like McAllister, Murphy, Gonzales and Leroy Brown;
the critics noted those names are not Jewish. In fact, ethnic
and minority groups were indeed overrepresented in the armed
forces compared with Jews -- and white Protestants, for that
matter. And Mr. Buchanan says he was talking about the "kids
humping up that bloody road to Baghdad" in one context, and
Mr. Rosenthal and the others in another. But the tempestuous
Mr. Rosenthal erupted. "We are not dealing here with
country-club anti-Semitism," he wrote, "but with the blood
libel that often grows out of it."
   Mr. Buchanan responded to Mr. Rosenthal's attack, and the
furor it caused, with a column that began: "Well, there goes
the B'nai B'rith Man of the Year award." He identified the
main perpetrator of the "contract hit" on him as the
Anti-Defamation League, which published a report in 1991
called "Anger on the Right: Pat Buchanan's Venomous Crusade."
   Mr. Buchanan described anti-Semitism as "an embedded
hatred of Jewish people, manifest in writing and conduct. As
such, it is a grave sin, a disease of the heart, a variant of
racism." But in the hands of his accusers, he said, charges
of anti-Semitism are used as a kind of "branding iron wielded
by a tiny clique" used "to frighten, intimidate, censor and
silence; to cut off debate; to so smear men's reputations
that no one will listen to them again without saying, `Say,
isn't he an anti-Semite?'" Mr. Buchanan says he is a victim
of that kind of censorship.
   Mr. Buchanan comes from a conservative and traditional
background. He yearns for a simpler time, with the decade of
the '50s as his ideal. His father, William B. Buchanan, a
successful accountant, admired Spanish dictator Francisco
Franco and Sen. Joseph McCarthy. Mr. Buchanan defends both of
those men.
   In 1977, Mr. Buchanan noted that Adolf Hitler, though
"indeed racist and anti-Semitic to the core . . . was also an
individual of courage," whose "genius" was "an intuitive
sense of the mushiness, the character flaws, the weakness
masquerading as morality that was in the hearts of the
statesmen who stood in his path."
   Again and again, Mr. Buchanan has defended Nazis charged
with being war criminals, and he calls the Justice
Department's Office of Special Investigations, which is still
pursuing war criminals, "hairy-chested Nazi hunters." He has
suggested abolishing the office and using its budget, about
$3 million a year, to fight crime at home instead.
   In 1987, during the time he served in the White House as
President Reagan's director of communications, Mr. Buchanan
asked Attorney General Edwin Meese to block the deportation
of Karl Linnas to the Soviet Union to stand trial for war
crimes. Mr. Buchanan argued that the evidence supplied by the
Soviets was suspect. But a federal court of appeals concluded
that Mr. Linnas ran the Nazi concentration camp at Tartu,
Estonia, and personally supervised the transportation of
prisoners from his camp to a nearby anti-tank ditch, where,
on their knees, hands tied behind their backs, they were shot
to death. Mr. Linnas died in the Soviet Union of natural
causes while awaiting trial.
   In as many as eight columns and on television, Mr.
Buchanan has championed John Demjanjuk, a Cleveland auto
worker deported to Israel where he was tried and convicted as
"Ivan the Terrible," mass murderer at the Treblinka
concentration camp. Mr. Buchanan argues that the Israelis,
with U.S. help, convicted the wrong man, and he could turn
out to be right.
   New evidence from Soviet files, based on affidavits by
German SS guards, suggests that Ivan the Terrible was someone
else, and that Mr. Demjanjuk spent the war at another camp.
But the Justice Department says that whether or not he was
Ivan the Terrible, Mr. Demjanjuk was a Nazi, and was properly
subject to deportation because he lied about his background
to win U.S. citizenship. The case is now under review by the
Israeli Supreme Court.
   In his zeal to defend Mr. Demjanjuk, Mr. Buchanan has
seemed to suggest there's some question whether 850,000 Jews
really died at Treblinka. An Israeli court, he wrote on March
17, 1990, concluded that the murder weapon was a diesel tank
that "drove its exhaust into the death chamber." But, he
argued, "the problem is, diesel engines do not emit enough
carbon monoxide to kill anybody."
   "Demjanjuk's weapon of mass murder," Mr. Buchanan
concluded triumphantly, "cannot kill." He suggested that
people who testified to the mass murders through diesel fumes
were victims of "Holocaust Survival Syndrome," which involves
"group fantasies."
   Under questioning in a later television appearance, Mr.
Buchanan conceded that "Jews were brought there (to
Treblinka) in the hundreds of thousands and died in the
thousands." Asked whether he was denying that hundreds of
thousands of Jews died at Treblinka, he said: "No, I
certainly cannot deny that."
   Eventually, Mr. Buchanan accepted expert opinion that the
Jews at Treblinka did in fact die from exposure to diesel
fumes, though he added that their deaths still seem to him to
be more consistent with cyanide poisoning.
   Appearing late in 1990 on "The McLaughlin Group" TV show,
Mr. Buchanan discussed the Demjanjuk case and the charges
that he is anti-Semitic. The New Republic's Fred Barnes
interrupted to ask what many believe is the most pertinent
question. "Pat, what bothers a lot of people like me, who
don't think you are anti-Semitic, is this: Why, of all the
issues in the world, this great concern with the alleged
persecution of Nazis?"
   Mr. Buchanan didn't really answer the question.
"Demjanjuk," he said, "is not a Nazi. He was not a National
Socialist. He can't even read. He's a poor, pathetic old guy,
bewildered, no money, no defense, who's going to die. He's
going to be hanged. I'm trying to save his life."
   (See related letter: "Letters to the Editor: Evolving
Awareness About the Holocaust" -- WSJ March 24, 1992)
   920213-0020