Health:
   Study Finds Blacks Get Fewer Bypasses
   ----
   By Ron Winslow
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
"Our results suggest that a national health insurance
program by itself may not solve all the problems of access to
care," says Arthur J. Hartz, a clinical epidemiologist at
Medical College of Wisconsin, Milwaukee, and an author of the
report.
   The study also compares overall bypass surgery rates, as
well as those for blacks and whites, among the 50 states. It
appears in today's Journal of the American Medical
Association.
   The findings are based on an analysis of the records of
all Medicare patients in 1986, including 86,463 who underwent
coronary artery bypass surgery, an open-heart procedure in
which blood vessels are taken from elsewhere in the body and
used to reroute blood around blockages in arteries that feed
the heart muscle.
   The results reflect problems in the health care system
that affect minorities long before they qualify for Medicare.
One problem is access to doctors. "We're often told in
Manhattan that we don't need any more cardiologists," says
Charles Francis, director of internal medicine at Harlem
Hospital. "But those doctors are all on Park Avenue. They
aren't in Harlem."
   Moreover, he believes, a lack of experience with doctors
in routine matters makes some blacks afraid of the health
system when more serious problems arise. "To let someone put
a tube in your heart is a big jump when a simple injection is
an adventure," Dr. Francis says. "The whole prospect is too
intimidating."
   The researchers found that in 1986 the national bypass
rate among Medicare patients, who are over age 65, was 25.6
per 10,000 people; the rate was 27.1 per 10,000 for whites
and 7.6 for blacks.
   The 3 1/2-fold difference between whites and blacks
"shocks me," says Dr. Vincent Parsonnet, director of surgery
at NewarkBeth Israel Medical Center in New Jersey. "It's an
amazing number, particularly when you consider that the
(blacks) are insured. It adds to our concerns about providing
care in a more equitable way."
   The differences were even more pronounced in some states,
particularly in the South. In Alabama, for instance, there
was an eightfold variation.
   The researchers compared rates of heart attacks among
Medicare patients and found no differences in the rate of
heart disease that would explain either the racial or
geographic bypass variation, says Kenneth C. Goldberg, a
third-year medical student at Medical College of Wisconsin
and the lead author of the study. The numbers were adjusted
for such factors as the patients' age, sex and race.
   The study found that bypass rates for white patients
increased somewhat with the supply of cardiologists and
thoracic surgeons -- a phenomenon known as physician-induced
demand. The idea is that in areas where competition for
patients is intense, doctors encourage more medical
procedures to maintain incomes. Physician-induced demand
wasn't a factor for black patients.
   The researchers speculate that lack of access to primary
care doctors, cultural reluctance to have surgery, a lack of
so-called Medigap insurance to pay for services not covered
by Medicare and racial prejudice among physicians were among
the factors that influenced the rate of bypass surgery among
blacks.
   The study also shows that overall bypass surgery rates
range from a low of 19.3 per 10,000 in Maine to a high of
44.1 in Montana. The more than two-fold difference indicates
a lack of consensus among doctors over when surgery is called
for. The results suggest that many bypass operations for
white patients are unnecessary and that black patients
probably aren't getting enough services, Dr. Hartz says.