Petro-Canada, Hit
   By Losses, to Close
   Refinery, Stations
   ----
   By Suzanne McGee
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Petro-Canada's "downstream" operations in refining and
marketing had a loss of 106 million Canadian dollars (US$91.4
million) in the first nine months of 1991, and the company
said it plans to take a C$369 million charge against
fourth-quarter earnings to reflect a write-down in the book
value of some of the refining and marketing assets.
   Analysts said Petro-Canada's decision to shut down
capacity is a first glimmer of hope the Canadian downstream
industry has seen in more than a year. Beset by heavy
Canadian government taxes, an influx of lower-priced crude
from U.S. refiners, the recession and domestic price wars,
the industry also suffered heavily early last year when
forced to dispose of high-priced crude inventories at low,
post-Gulf War, refined-product prices.
   "Now that the industry has switched to {last-in,
first-out} accounting, we won't see those big inventory
losses this year," said Denis Mote, an industry analyst with
Maison Placements Inc., a Toronto investment dealer. "But
taxes are a little higher, and demand isn't improving. Big
losses are piling up at the refinery level and at the gas
station level."
   But analysts said the closure and conversion of refineries
accounting for 80,000 barrels of refined product daily is
only a drop in the bucket. Canadian refining capacity
currently totals about 1.9 million barrels daily, and some
argue that at least 10% of that total will need to disappear
before downstream companies notice an improvement in their
bottom line.
   The intensive downstream competition and flagging demand
is hurting all of Canada's major players. Imperial Oil Ltd.
has said it expects to report its first-ever annual loss, and
some analysts believe that the company, 70%-owned by Exxon
Corp., could also shut down refining capacity. Imperial
officials couldn't be reached.
   Meanwhile, Shell Canada Ltd. reported that 1991 net income
from continuing operations shrank to C$12 million from C$317
million a year earlier. Its downstream operations posted a
C$62 million loss for the year, down from a profit of C$153
million in 1990. The company is 78%-owned by Royal
Dutch/Shell Group.
   Earlier in the week, Canadian Turbo Inc., a Western
Canadian refiner and marketer, said that as a result of
record losses, it has retained financial advisers to help the
company explore "possible strategic transactions." Eric
Sprott, its chairman, wouldn't confirm or deny reports that
the company could close gas stations, but said "significant
steps" are required to deal with overcapacity.
   If Turbo does proceed with asset sales, it will find that
there appears to be a glut of gas stations on the market.
Already up for sale are the 1,500 stations acquired by Lasmo
PLC as part of its purchase of Ultramar PLC. And now,
Petro-Canada will divest or close more than a third of its
3,500 stations nationwide within the next two to three years.
Industry observers say there are few buyers emerging for
these assets.
   Philippe Hervieu, an analyst with Nesbitt Thomson Deacon
in Montreal, concluded that the downstream industry needs to
see an economic recovery before its own performance will
improve.