After This, the Actuaries' Slogan
   May Become, `We Bet Your Life'
   ----
   By Lee Berton
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
As the approximately 1,000 actuaries from the society and
four other actuarial groups flock to their meetings, they'll
have to pass through a 50,000-square-foot casino packed with
51 blackjack tables, nine crap tables and four roulette
wheels, plus all those clanging slot machines.
   Although actuaries are experts on odds, some feel that Las
Vegas is "inappropriate for such a risk-averse profession,"
says Steven Ferruggia, an actuary in Secaucus, N.J. "Some
eyebrows were raised when we picked Las Vegas for the first
time," says Charles E. Moes Jr., a member of the society's
program committee. "With the current problems of the
insurance industry, where many actuaries work, some are
concerned that Las Vegas won't be good for our image."
   That the actuaries will end up in Las Vegas shows that
even they can't anticipate all of life's risks. The society
had originally set the meeting for Miami, but the hotel it
had chosen went out of business, says William Cutlip, an
actuary who heads the program committee. "We were fortunate
to get the Las Vegas Hilton on such short notice."
   Now that they are headed for Las Vegas, some actuaries
feel that their skills with odds -- they calculate life spans
for insurance and employee benefits -- could help them win
big at the gaming tables. "Why, we had one junior actuary who
quit our firm last year to become a professional gambler,"
notes Ethan Kra, an actuary with benefits consultants William
M. Mercer Inc. in New York.
   And Gary Pines, an actuary with consultants Towers Perrin
in Chicago, recalls making a lot of money betting at
Arlington Race Track many years ago after he had just
graduated from college. "Actuaries are good gamblers because
they can memorize all the probabilities," he says.
   Is the Las Vegas Hilton worried? "Not really," says Lee
Skelley, the casino manager. "We're confident that the
built-in house odds advantage will take care of the
actuaries' mathematical skills."