Commodities:
   Of 26 Commodity-Market Newsletters Surveyed,
   Only Four Gave Profitable Advice Last Year
   ----
   By Stanley W. Angrist
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
By comparison, six of 26 letters showed a per-trade profit
in 1989, and 14 did so in 1990, says Bruce Babcock, editor.
   To be sure, it wasn't only market letters that had a tough
time in commodity markets last year. Price trends in most
markets didn't last long enough for even experienced traders
to take positions and make money.
   Professional money managers were losing 7.7% through
November, according to a performance index published by
Managed Account Reports. Because of spectacularly profitable
trading in December, the MAR trading adviser index ended the
year with a 4.5% gain. That return pales in comparison to the
30.5% rise in Standard  Poor's 500-stock index.
   But many individuals who rely on market letters for trade
ideas apparently remember the good years along with the bad.
Most market letter subscribers were well-rewarded in both
1988 and 1987 when many letters' recommendations were
substantially profitable.
   "Judging by the renewals coming in from my subscribers, it
does not seem that they were too disappointed in my letter,"
notes Larry Williams. Of the recommendations made in his
letter, Commodity Timing, 49% were profitable, but overall
the suggested trades lost an average of $29 each.
   Individual traders certainly need help; only about 30% of
them make money, recent studies show. Many speculators turn
to market letters or "hotlines" for suggestions, either
because they don't have the time to research the markets or
to develop trading systems of their own. Winning trades may
not be the only reason people subscribe, says Mr. Babcock of
Commodity Traders Consumer Report. "Most newsletters provide
education about how markets work," he says, "so, even if a
trader ignores the trading suggestions, he can still learn a
lot from them." Of course, he adds, "you have to be selective
about the ones you choose." The top-performing letter in
terms of return on capital was The Scale Trader of Moorpark,
Calif., which made about 17%. Robert Wiest, the letter's
publisher, has been in the futures business for 31 years. He
is skeptical of following price trends because, he says,
futures prices usually don't move steadily up or down.
   Mr. Wiest's trading system is unorthodox: If he buys a
futures contract and its price declines, he buys another at a
lower price rather than closing out his position. For
example, if he thinks corn is "cheap" at $2.60 a bushel, he
buys one contract. If it declines to $2.50, he buys another
and he would continue to buy at 10-cent intervals. If corn
falls to $2.10 and then rallies to $2.20, he sells the
contract he bought for $2.10 and takes a $500 profit on a
5,000-bushel contract.
   This strategy assumes that eventually corn prices will
fall so low that corn farmers will abandon their crops. That
would reduce supplies and cause prices to rise.
   This type of trading requires deep pockets because it can
produce large paper losses as traders add to losing
positions. For example, The Scale Trader was holding
unrealized losses on 37 contracts of nearly $44,000 at year's
end. But so far this year, Mr. Wiest points out, 18 of those
contracts were closed out for a net profit of $16,930. Last
year, 85% of The Scale Trader's closed positions were
profitable.
   Mr. Wiest claims he derived his method of trading from a
gambling strategy he saw in Las Vegas. He applies it only to
agricultural, precious metals and energy futures, and usually
he initiates his trades by buying contracts. He claims his
system has produced an annual average profit of 32% over the
last five years.
   Looking ahead to commodity markets this week:
                                                                                                       

   Livestock  Meats
                                                                                                       

   Cattle prices are expected to rise at the open of trading
today because the Agriculture Department reported that the
U.S. herd is expanding at a rate slower than expected by
analysts.
   After the close of trading Friday, the department reported
that the U.S. herd on Jan. 1 totaled 100.1 million cattle, up
about 1% from Jan. 1, 1991. The department also revised
downward its estimate of the yearearlier herd to 98.9 million
cattle.
   According to Bob Price, a livestock analyst at Cargill
Investor Services Inc., Chicago, most traders had expected
the Agriculture Department to report that ranchers expanded
their herds by 1.5% to 2.5%.
   Cattle prices have generally been lackluster since the
summer amid industry and government reports that the meat
supply is increasing at a relatively strong pace. The new
government report suggests that the expansion has been much
more tentative than many traders thought.
                                                                                                       

   Copper
                                                                                                       

   Traders will be watching for some sign showing the
direction of the copper market this week. Copper's technical
trend indicates it is still going downhill, while its
fundamental signs are more positive, said John Gross, a West
Nyack, N.Y., metals consultant.
   Demand was stronger in January than most people had
expected, and that firmness has continued into February, he
said. Meanwhile, the scrap metal market is tightening, Mr.
Gross said. With supply and demand in the U.S. finely
balanced, any serious pickup in the economy should lead to
higher copper prices fairly quickly, he said.
   Prices are in a backwardation (meaning contracts due to
expire soon are higher priced than those expiring later),
indicating a tightness in supply. On Friday, copper for
February delivery ended at 98.55 cents a pound, up 0.2 cent.
March copper finished at 98.45 cents, up 0.3 cent.
   ---
           Top Commodity Advisory Letters in 1991
                                                                                                       

                                 1991            1990
                     % OF                     % OF
             PROFIT  TRADES  RETURN   PROFIT  TRADES  RETURN
             PER     PROFIT- ON       PER     PROFIT- ON
             TRADE*  ABLE    MARGIN#  TRADE*  ABLE    MARGIN#
                                                                                                       

 COMMODITY
  RESEARCH
  BUREAU      $148   47%     14%      $390     45%     +32%
                                                                                                       

 Corcoran
  Futures
  Hotline       44   43       4       -418     33      -79
                                                                                                       

 Seasonal
  Trader
  Report        36   45       9         19     53      - 2
                                                                                                       

 Elliott Wave
   Currency 
   Commodity
   Forecast      9   30       0       -141     34      -71
                                                                                                       


  Trader       -18   85      17        ...     ...     ...
                                                                                                       

 Commodity
  Timing       -29   49     - 9        ...     ...     ...
                                                                                                       

 Marketline
  Update       -42   46     -12        ...     ...     ...
                                                                                                       

   * After deducting $80 per trade for commissions and
"slippage," or order fulfilment at other-than-desired prices.
   Open trades at year end are assumed closed out in making
this calculation.
   # "Good-faith money" required for traders to open
positions; assumed amounts for calculations are double
exchange minimums.
   Source: Commodity Traders Consumer Report.