Winter Olympics 1992 -- On the Games:
   For a Finale,
   Ice `Gingers'
   Turn Games
   To Show Biz
   ----
   By Frederick C. Klein
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
This is sport? thought I. Does Bonnie Blair practice
bowing?
   Does Alberto Tomba? Does Raisa Smetanina?
   Well, maybe Mr. Tomba does.
   But here we are, after two weeks of sports timed down to
the hundreth of a second, of sports involving more high-tech
hardware (bobsleds, luges, skis prepared for every
conceivable snow condition) than you'll find at your local
Sharper Image store, of a sport (speed skiing) in which the
competitors try to turn themselves into human bullets, and we
come down to a finale that is pure show biz.
   We have watched Freds and Gingers, then just Freds, and
now just Gingers, and it is the Gingers we like best, at
least that's what CBS tells us. Tonight it will be Our Girls
-- Kristi Yamaguchi and Nancy Kerrigan -- against Theirs --
Midori Ito and Surya Bonaly -- and if one of Ours wins many
will judge these Winter Olympics a success no matter how
disappointingly some of our sweaty types have fared.
   And who will decide who wins? Why, the judges, of course,
using a system so complicated that Juan Antonio Samaranch,
the big boss of these Games, recently confessed it was beyond
his understanding. It is, basically, a poll, like the one we
use to decide the national collegiate football championship.
But there's more to it than that, and maybe it will help if I
explain.
   First off, you should know that figure skating no longer
has anything to do with figures. As recently as the last
Olympics, skaters were required to show up early one morning
in utilitarian dress and trace figure eights and
loop-the-loops on the ice. The judges examined these for
precision and awarded scores that were worth 30% of the
skaters' totals.
   This process, however, has been jettisoned as unsuited to
this visual age, and while most applaud the subtraction, some
do not. "An art has been lost," a British coach opined the
other day within my hearing, and, alas, it is so.
   What's left are two performance-to-music programs -- a
short one (two minutes, 40 seconds) and a long one (4 1/2
minutes) -- which the judges rate for artistry and technique
in tenths of a point on a scale of 0 to 6. (Why don't they
just use a scale of 0-to-60?) The thing to remember here is
that the numerical scores are not added up to produce a
total. What's important is how each judge rates each skater
relative to all of the other skaters. So a skater can get a
middling 5.5 score from a judge but still earn a first-place
vote if that judge scores no one higher.
   There's more to it than that. Weightings are involved, as
well as a tiebreaking system whose twists and turns puts the
NFL's to shame. But that's what computers are for.
   I once asked a figure skating judge why the system had to
be so complex. He answered that the more "improvements" were
made in the name of fairness and precision, the more tangled
things got. Who says sports aren't a microcosm of life?
   Beyond the arthimetic, though, are human beings expressing
preferences, and the judges surely have these. Some like
blondes, some brunettes. Some like tall, some like short.
Some like pepper, some like plain. Tonight's field has it
all.
   Ms. Ito, of Japan, and Ms. Yamaguchi, of Fremont, Calif.,
both world champions since the '88 Games, were expected to be
the main contenders for the gold medal, and they are
quite-different types. Ms. Ito is short (4-foot-7) and
stocky, Ms. Yamaguchi is taller (5 feet even) and slimmer.
Ms. Ito is robustly athletic, doing triple-turn leaps by the
truckload, and while Ms. Yamaguchi does some, too, her
skating style is smoother and more lyrical. The athletic
equivalent of a wine tasting was forecast.
   But in Wednesday night's short program, Ms. Ito landed
kerplunk on her left side after her first leap while Ms.
Yamaguchi sailed through her routine cleanly, so Ms.
Yamaguchi was first and Ms. Ito fourth at evening's end.
That's a wide gap to close in the figs, so two other young
women must be considered as gold-medal maybes: Nancy Kerrigan
of Stoneham, Mass., who is second, and Surya Bonaly of
France, who is third.
   Ms. Kerrigan and Ms. Bonaly match up much like Ms.
Yamaguchi and Ms. Ito: Ms. Kerrigan's the smoothie and Ms.
Bonaly's the jock. The latter, a powerfully haunched
18-year-old, is said to have accomplished four-turn leaps in
practice (revolutionary]), and someday may jump right out of
an arena. How she would be scored for doing that remains to
be seen.
   And while it takes more than remaining erect to get a good
score in figure skating, it's also true that grading a skater
who has fallen remains the great mystery of the sport. I have
asked judges about this, and they say that much depends on
the move in which the fall occured (tough is better than
easy), and on whether or not the fall hampers the remainder
of the skater's routine.
   But several days of figure-skating watching has convinced
me that other factors come into play, including the
nationalities of the judges and skaters involved. For
instance, Anisette Torp-Lind of Denmark did a perfectly
lovely, and perfect, short program Wednesday. She placed
eighth overall, but ranked 13th on the Japanese judge's
chart, while this same lady gave the fallen Ms. Ito a third.
   And last Saturday, in the men's final, the winner, Victor
Petrenko of the United Team, had to place both hands on the
ice to steady himself after a mishap, but scored higher than
sixth-place Kurt Browning of Canada, who needed but one hand
to right himself after his bobble. Mr. Petrenko might have
done other things better than Mr. Browning, but I guess your
Little League coach was correct when he said a two-handed
catch is best.