REVIEW  OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   Judge Rescinds Regulators
But in 1989 Congress passed FIRREA, the bailout law, which
changed the rules on regulatory capital, causing regulators
to move to seize the thrift. They shouldn't have moved so
fast, federal Judge Owen Panner ruled this week. Even if
regulators had the power to seize the thrift, not even the
government can renege on its contracts.
   "In view of the contractual commitments in the conversion
agreement, it is clear that neither plaintiffs nor the
government anticipated that the agreement would be abrogated
by subsequent legislation," Judge Panner ruled. The contract
was "frustrated," and the agreement must be rescinded. He
ordered the government to pay back the original investment.
   Judge Panner did more than simply rule that the investors
were robbed. It was so easy to dismiss the legal arguments
made by the Office of Thrift Supervision that he dispensed
with the need for a trial. He summarily rejected the
arguments by regulators, which were that there was no
contract, that if there was a contract the investors couldn't
sue to enforce it, and if they could they couldn't get
restitution of their investment.
   We have written several times about this lawsuit against
the Office of Thrift Supervision because the Far West effort
is Exhibit A in the havoc Congress created with FIRREA. The
immediate problem was that the law forced a temporary
collapse in the junk-bond market by requiring thrifts to hold
a fire sale of their bonds. Congress also ensured years of
litigation by rescinding numerous agreements that thrift
regulators had made with investors who'd agreed to salvage
troubled thrifts.
   In addition to Far West's lawsuit, there are growing
volumes of cases pending in the U.S. Claims Court. Loren
Smith, the chief judge of this special court for money
damages against Uncle Sam, shocked regulators last month by
ruling in favor of a Minnesota thrift that went bust when
FIRREA retracted the accounting rules for "supervisory good
will." Expect many more lawsuits by nowseized thrifts with
claims in the hundreds of millions of dollars.
   We don't have any special brief for thrift owners,
especially those such as Charles Keating who did more than
gamble with funds backed by deposit insurance. In the case of
Far West and many others, however, thrift regulators sought
out the investors they later double-crossed. David
Nierenberg, who organized the Far West investment, told us
yesterday that while he was happy with the legal result,
he'll never see the $3 million it cost to fight the
regulators. He also wonders "how can I ever make up for the
harm to my reputation caused by the regulators" who seized
his thrift.
   Judge Panner has sent an important lesson about
Washington. If politicians get in over their regulatory
heads, taxpayers will end up footing the bill.