Boeing Earnings
   Increased 27%
   in 4th Quarter
   ---
   Defense Business Is Cited;
   Stock Falls on Rumors
   UAL May Delay Orders
   ----
   By Roy J. Harris Jr.
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Still, in New York Stock Exchange composite trading,
Boeing shares fell $3 to $50.625 on volume of 2.5 million
shares, a tumble that aerospace securities analysts
attributed to investors' fears of a fleet retrenchment plan
that might accompany a dismal earnings report today from
United's parent, UAL Corp.
   UAL has already said a loss in the fourth quarter would be
its largest quarterly deficit ever. But analysts tended to
dismiss rumors that UAL would make significant changes in the
firm orders that United has placed with Boeing.
   "I don't think it will happen," said Paul Nisbet, who
follows both the aerospace and airline industries for
Prudential Securities Inc. He and other analysts instead
expect a more-general statement that United, following a
broad move among U.S. airlines to slash budgets and delay
long-term expansion plans, will reduce the number of planes
for which it has options. Last fall, American Airlines and
USAir made such announcements about delaying growth and
taking fewer options but didn't pare their firm orders for
aircraft.
   If United's firm orders remain intact, "I'd be very
surprised if the {Boeing} stock doesn't go up," Mr. Nisbet
said, noting how handily the fourth-quarter earnings outpaced
his own $1.05-a-share estimate. The analyst acknowledged that
Boeing, which owes about 17% of its entire backlog to United,
is especially sensitive to rumors about the big airline's
fleet plans. Firm United orders include 104 smaller 737
aircraft, which Seattle-based Boeing yesterday suggested
could be a candidate for production-rate cuts again this
year.
   In Chicago, a UAL spokesman wouldn't comment on the rumors
that it might pull back from some Boeing orders.
   Still, there is likely to be some impact on Boeing from
any retrenchment at United, an airline with a $15.8 billion
capital expenditure plan through 1995. United is considered
committed to only $6.9 billion of that amount, with the rest
considered discretionary, and some airline analysts speculate
that United could cut $2 billion to $4 billion from the plan.
   For its part, Boeing cautioned that 1992 airline prospects
world-wide are uncertain, after last year's flat air traffic
and severe airline losses in the U.S. and elsewhere. But it
added that "traffic and yields appeared to be improving at
year-end." Even with Boeing's 1991 jetliner order book
registering a total of $20.6 billion in new bookings-257
planes in all, down from 543 worth $48 billion in its 1990
banner yeartotal backlog grew slightly to $97.2 billion as of
Dec. 31.
   Boeing held out especially high hopes for the long-range
777, 86 of which have been ordered since the program was
launched last year. The twin-engine plane sells for $100
million and competes with the McDonnell Douglas Corp. MD-11
and Airbus Industrie A-330.
   "I think there are going to be a lot of 777s ordered this
year," said Shearson Lehman Brothers aerospace analyst Gary
J. Reich, noting that Boeing revealed yesterday that it
expects shortly to win an eighth customer for the
300-to-400-passenger jetliner.
   Mr. Reich was especially impressed with Boeing's
performance in defense businesses, though. "I was looking at
a $200 million loss" that was nearly twice the actual 1991
defense-related loss, he said.
   Boeing Chairman Frank Shrontz said the year's progress in
military and space fields resulted from improved technical,
cost and schedule performance, operational consolidation and
restructuring, and the termination of some fixed-price
development contracts, which he didn't name.
   Boeing said that in a time of arms reduction, it benefits
from its diversity and the number of programs eligible for
upgrade or modification. Still, sales to the U.S. government
will level off at around $5 billion the next few years, down
from last year's $5.6 billion, the company predicted. That
suggests that out of the flat total revenue of $29.5 billion
that Boeing said it expects this year, commercial sales
should account for more than the 78% of revenue recorded last
year.
   For all of 1991, net income rose 13% to $1.57 billion, or
$4.56 a share, from $1.39 billion, or $4.01 a share, on a
6.2% increase in sales to $29.31 billion.
   ---
   Asra Q. Nomani contributed to this article.