McDonnell Douglas Rebuts Criticism
   Of Its Venture With Taiwan Aerospace
   ----
   By Jeff Cole
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
An executive for Seattle-based Boeing, which has
recommended U.S. government action to prevent foreign
subsidies for its rival McDonnell Douglas, told the
subcommittee that such an alliance would require about $10
billion to begin producing the proposed long-range MD-12
wide-body airliners -- more than double the $4 billion to $5
billion McDonnell Douglas has estimated.
   Foreign aircraft subsidies already are a volatile issue
because U.S. officials are locked in an eight-year stand-off
over alleged unfair subsidies from the four European nations
involved in the Airbus Industrie consortium, the world's
second-largest jet manufacturer.
   The McDonnell Douglas plan calls for Taiwan Aerospace to
put up $2 billion for a 40% share of the St. Louis company's
Douglas Aircraft Co. airliner operations, based in Long
Beach, Calif. Another 9% could be sold to other Asian or
European partners, bringing the total capital raised to about
$2.5 billion. McDonnell Douglas would retain majority
control. Foreign partners would build substantial parts of
the aircraft in Douglas-owned plants in their countries.
   During his testimony and in an earlier interview, Mr. Wolf
said at least $1.5 billion of the total Taiwan Aerospace
investment would be used to pay down long-term debt, bracing
McDonnell Douglas's balance sheet and allowing it to turn to
lenders to help finance the project. He said the venture also
would draw on revenue from sales of other aircraft models,
and it would lease manufacturing sites to restrain costs.
   For McDonnell Douglas, which relies on sales of two small
and medium-sized models of jetliners, survival in the
commercial business depends on its ability to expand its
product line. The MD-12 would compete against the popular
Boeing 747 jumbo jets and also let McDonnell Douglas expand
its "family" of jets with similar operating features.
   Mr. Wolf said that a failure by his company to close the
transaction or a similar one could endanger 29,000 U.S. jobs.
"What we're really going for is survival," he said,
explaining that the company will have no choice but to slowly
withdraw from the jetliner-making business if it can't add
more jet models.
   The McDonnell Douglas plan touches a nerve in some trade
and labor circles, where it has been depicted as shipping
precious jobs and valued technology overseas. Company
officials said there isn't any risk of exporting technology,
and noted that co-production contracts in foreign countries
are common in the jet industry.
   In his testimony, in fact, Mr. Wolf said that an agreement
Boeing has for Japanese companies to have 20% participation
in Boeing's new 777 wide-body jetliner actually is a worse
deal for American industry because it could help create a
long-term U.S. manufacturing rival in Japan.
   Boeing disagrees that its 777 arrangement will stimulate
creation of a Japanese airliner industry.
   Mr. Wolf previously has said he believes Boeing is trying
to saddle the McDonnell Douglas deal with regulations so that
it will die. But some committee members questioned the Taiwan
plan.
   "The proposed sale is symptomatic of a much larger
problem," said Sen. Jeff Bingaman (D., N.M.), the subcommitee
chairman. He said he believes that foreign interests have
targeted the U.S. commerical aircraft industry, which
annually generates $100 billion in sales and produces nearly
a $30 billion trade surplus.
   In their separate testimonies, Mr. Wolf and Boeing Vice
President Larry Clarkson agreed that McDonnell Douglas
wouldn't have the problems it does today without the
existence of subsidies at Airbus. That is a suggestion
challenged by Airbus, which maintains that McDonnell
Douglas's problems evolved long before the consortium offered
jets that compete with the MD-80 and MD-11.