Midwest's Powerful Surge in Home Sales
   In January Suggests Regional Recovery
   ----
   By Francine Schwadel
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
So much, in fact, that it took only one day last week for
Baird  Warner Inc., a Chicago real-estate broker, to snare
four offers for a $419,000 three-bedroom house in suburban
Winnetka and get it under contract. "That's very fast," says
Stephen Baird, president. "I can't remember that since,
probably, 1986."
   Many builders in the region also report business booming.
At Casey Farms, a development in the Chicago suburb of
Hoffman Estates, for instance, Terrestris Development Co.
signed 10 contracts in January and 12 in February. "We were
just astounded," says Marsha Elliott, the company's executive
vice president. "We'll be selling out much more rapidly than
we thought."
   Though much of the evidence is anecdotal, the latest
government and trade association reports on January activity
suggest the Midwest is fueling the national rebound in
housing. The region's new home sales surged 63% in January --
to the highest seasonally adjusted annual rate since October
1978 -- and accounted for much of the 12.9% gain nationwide.
And in both housing starts and sales of existing homes, the
Midwest was the only region to register a gain over
seasonally adjusted annual rates for December.
   Economists generally caution against reading too much into
one month's numbers. For one thing, they might be revised
downward. Weather also could be a factor. Indeed, the Midwest
had one of its mildest Januarys in memory, leading some
economists to suggest that balmy weather may have brought out
more buyers and given developers a head start on spring
construction projects. "I am left with that hypothesis," says
Robert G. Dederick, chief economist of Chicago's Northern
Trust Co.
   But other economists contend the Midwest is uniquely
positioned to benefit from lower interest rates. With the
exception of Illinois and Michigan, jobless rates in the Rust
and Farm Belt states that constitute the Midwest have hovered
below the national average. The region also has the most
affordable housing in the country.
   "Put the two together and you have a relatively healthy
situation," says Dean Crist, an economist at the National
Association of Home Builders. "In other regions, when the
economy started to deteriorate, no one could afford housing
anymore."
   In the nation's midsection, however, home prices didn't
rise as rapidly during the go-go 1980s as on the coasts. As a
result, 21 of the 25 most affordable markets in the U.S. are
now clustered in the Midwest, according to the home builders
association, which measures the ability of a typical family
to purchase a home in its market. They include such places as
Jackson, Mich., Peoria, Ill., Kokomo, Ind., Kansas City, Mo.,
Des Moines, Iowa, Omaha, Neb., and Milwaukee.
   Moreover, if Congress clears a proposed $5,000 tax credit
for first-time home buyers, the Midwest will benefit more
than the coasts, says Diane Swonk, a First Chicago Corp.
economist. She estimates such a credit -- which is far from
being a sure thing -- would lead to 8,000 additional housing
starts in the Midwest in 1992.
   Mr. Cooper, of Nichols in Overland Park, says home buyers
and sellers, who sat on the sidelines for much of last year
because of the Persian Gulf War and the recession, started
getting in the mood to move in November. In February, he
notes that his company's volume jumped 61% from the depressed
year-earlier level. He attributes the increase to low
interest rates and "pent-up demand."
   In Chicago, Baird  Warner's Mr. Baird says the
highest-priced homes in each market are still moving slowly,
though better than a year ago. But he says his company, which
is gaining market share, has recorded 30% year-over-year
volume increases in each of the last five months. Business is
so brisk that Mr. Baird is hiring more clerical staffers to
process transactions.
   "I'm trying to decide if this is a blip on the screen or
if this is permanent," he says. His best guess? "I think it's
going to continue," he says. "I don't see anything out there
in terms of changes in interest rates or the economy that's
going to change it."