Technology  Medicine:
   Hewlett to Buy 5% of Convex Computer
   In Accord That Also Calls for Chip Use
   ----
   By Stephen Kreider Yoder and Karen Blumenthal
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
The deal gives H-P a small but important new ally in the
battle with other computer makers, which, like H-P, are
attempting to woo computer users to chips that use a
technology called reduced instruction-set computing, or RISC.
Rivals such as Sun Microsystems Inc. and Mips Computer
Systems Inc. are attempting to turn their RISC chips into de
facto standards among a broad range of computer makers.
   H-P's RISC chip has been a big success as the "brains" of
workstations that compete with machines made by companies
such as International Business Machines Corp. Companies such
as Japan's Hitachi Ltd. have also agreed to use H-P's chip.
But H-P didn't have an ally in the rapidly growing market for
small supercomputers.
   As part of the pact, Convex, Richardson, Texas, will use
H-P's "Precision-Architecture" chip in so-called massively
parallel supercomputers, machines that speed up calculations
by stringing together anywhere from hundreds to tens of
thousands of chips. The Convex deal pits H-P's chip against
rivals who are aiming at the market for such machines,
including Sun Microsystems and Digital Equipment Corp.
Digital recently said supercomputer leader Cray Research Inc.
agreed to use its RISC chip in highly parallel machines.
   "This agreement with Convex fortifies" the position of
H-P's RISC chip in the market, said Lewis E. Platt, H-P
executive vice president.
   Under the agreement, Convex will transfer certain
supercomputing technologies to H-P. The agreement also allows
the companies to buy certain of each others' machines and
resell the machines under their own nameplates.
   Steven J. Wallach, Convex senior vice president,
technology, said the company evaluated several different
vendors of RISC chips before deciding that H-P's had the
highest floating-point performance, a measure of performance
important for supercomputers. Mr. Wallach said the companies
began to design hardware and software in October, and Convex
now has about 80 people committed to the project to build
massively parallel supercomputers using the technology.
Production of such machines probably is two years away, Mr.
Wallach added.
   Although H-P has committed to buying only 5% of the stock,
the companies agreed to discuss whether H-P will increase its
stake in two to three years and again in five years. A Convex
spokesman said the companies have discussed the possibility
of H-P's acquiring a maximum stake in Convex of about 25%.
   Convex, which had about $74 million in cash at Dec. 31,
said it will use the funds from the transaction for working
capital.