Marketing  Media:
   FCC Radio Ruling Turns On Big Players
   But Angers Minority Station Owners
   ----
   By Mary Lu Carnevale
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
To prevent broadcasters from dominating a market by buying
air time on other stations and simultaneously broadcasting
the same programming, the FCC also adopted time limits on
such ventures.
   Although the rules fell short of the near-total
deregulation recommended last month by the FCC's staff, the
commission went well beyond what many big broadcasters
sought. If the credit crunch eases by Aug. 1, when the rules
go into effect, the industry's biggest players are likely to
snap up choice broadcast stations in cities where they
already operate.
   "We are delighted," said Stephen Hildebrandt, Washington
chief counsel for Westinghouse Electric Corp.'s Group W unit.
"This will make radio competitive with other consolidated
media, such as cable television and print."
   The rule changes, however, sparked outrage among minority
broadcast station owners, public interest groups and others
who fear the changes will force many "mom-and-pop"
broadcasters out of business and lessen the diversity of
programming carried on U.S. airwaves.
   Yesterday's FCC action also drew immediate criticism on
Capitol Hill. Rep. Edward Markey (D., Mass.), chairman of the
telecommunications panel, expressed concern that the rule
changes would lead to less diversity in radio programming and
said he would introduce legislation to reverse the decision.
   Minority broadcasters and public interest groups urged
legislation. "This allows the biggest companies to become
bigger and the smallest companies to be squeezed out of the
market," argued James Winston, attorney for the National
Association of Black Owned Broadcasters Inc. The group, among
others, claims that the rule changes will further reduce
opportunities for minority ownership of radio stations.
   Over the past decade, the number of radio stations owned
by blacks has increased only slightly -- to 182 stations last
year from 141 stations in 1981. In that period, the FCC added
nearly 700 stations.
   Minority broadcasters are particularly angry that the FCC
eliminated a rule allowing radio licensees to hold an
interest in up to two more stations if the stations are
minority-controlled.
   Commissioner Andrew Barrett, who abstained from voting,
said he favored allowing one individual, or company, to own
25 AM and 25 FM stations nationwide. But he said that he also
would have allowed owners to hold an interest in an
additional five minority-controlled stations. "Restructuring
the industry to the extent the commission has done today is
not necessary to address the issues of increased competition
for media revenues," he said.
   Other commissioners, however, said the rule changes will
give station owners greater economies of scale, and a
stronger and more diverse industry will emerge. The changes
are part of FCC Chairman Alfred Sikes's "attic-to-basement"
review of broadcast rules; the agency also is examining
whether to change ownership limits for television stations.
   For the radio industry, most of the savings will come from
changes in local ownership rules as stations combine their
administrative, advertising, news and programming
departments, and offer advertisers more attractive deals.
   The FCC rules would allow licensees to expand locally,
depending on the size of the market. In markets with fewer
than 15 radio stations, an owner could acquire three
stations, but no more than two FM stations, and no more than
half of the stations in the market. In cities with 15 to 29
stations, a licensee could own two AM stations and two FM
stations, as long as the audience share didn't exceed 25% of
the market.
   In cities with 30 to 39 stations, the limit is three AM
stations and two FM stations, with a 25% audience cap. In the
largest markets, those with 40 or more stations, the limit is
three AM stations and three FM stations, with the 25% cap.
   Over time, if an owner's audience grows beyond the 25%
limit, the rule changes won't require the owner to sell any
stations. Instead, the commission ordered an annual report on
how well the rules are working.