Technology  Medicine:
   Abbott Laboratories Wins FDA Approval
   For Omniflox, a Powerful Antibiotic
   ----
   By Thomas M. Burton
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Those steps are beginning to pay off, and several analysts
see the drug division as one that will, to a great extent,
drive Abbott's profits during the 1990s. In 1991,
pharmaceutical sales were upwards of $1 billion, still a
relatively small portion of total company sales.
   Omniflox, generically known as temafloxacin, is key in
that effort. Analysts predict it will achieve several hundred
million dollars in annual sales. They make similar
predictions for Biaxin, an Abbott antibiotic approved on Oct.
31 by the FDA.
   Omniflox is designed to treat lower respiratory tract
infections, genital and urinary infections like prostatitis,
and skin infections. Omniflox is part of the quinolone family
of antibiotics, a powerful and broad-spectrum class of drugs.
   Unlike some other quinolone antibiotics, Abbott says
Omniflox doesn't have negative side effects when taken in
combination with theophylline, a drug commonly prescribed to
dilate bronchial tubes and ease breathing.
   Biaxin, known medically as clarithromycin, is another
broad-spectrum respiratory medication that causes relatively
fewer gastrointestinal complications than some other
antibiotics do.
   But as Abbott seeks to become a major pharmaceutical
player, one challenge it faces is to keep the remainder of
its drug-division team in place. Two people largely
responsible for the current success have left or are leaving.
   One is Jack W. Schuler, the former Abbott president who
recruited two of the top aides in the pharmaceutical section.
Mr. Schuler was fired during the stormy tenure of former
Chairman Robert Schoellhorn, who himself was jettisoned by
the Abbott board in late 1989.
   Mr. Schuler had recruited Paul Clark to his current job as
senior vice president of pharmaceutical operations in 1985.
At one point during the recruitment effort, Mr. Schuler flew
down to Florida to visit Mr. Clark during a business trip and
convinced him to join the company from Marion Laboratories,
where he was then marketing vice president for
pharmaceuticals.
   Also planning to leave Abbott is Ferid Murad, the
pharmaceutical division's head of research and development.
Dr. Murad, according to acquaintances, had grown weary of
what he perceived as "micromanagement" from the top levels of
the company.
   Messrs. Schuler and Clark had lured Dr. Murad away from
Stanford University, where he was chairman of the department
of pharmacology. Insiders give him and Mr. Clark credit for
the development of the pharmaceutical division.
   In keeping with Abbott's close-to-the-vest management
style, no executives were allowed to discuss Dr. Murad's
reasons for leaving. A spokesman confirmed he was leaving but
declined to discuss why. Dr. Murad couldn't be reached.
   Another challenge for Abbott in marketing the new
pharmaceuticals will be to avoid cannibalizing the sales of
erythromycin, its decades-old antibiotic, a popular
medication that causes gastrointestinal difficulties in some
patients.