Technology  Health:
   IBM to Introduce
   Various Models
   Of Workstations
   ----
   By Paul B. Carroll
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Some industry analysts are skeptical about the pricing on
low-end machines because they come without color screens and
often without hard disks, features that the vast majority of
workstation users wind up adding when buying a machine. But
the industry executives said IBM will also introduce a
$10,000 machine that will have a 16-inch color screen, 16
megabytes of main memory and a 400-megabyte hard disk drive.
   The executives said that, in general, IBM will be
increasing the performance of its desktop machines by 30% to
60%. Prices will rise little, because IBM has been able to
shrink the central processor from several chips to one --
which will serve as the basis for the technology-sharing
agreement the company announced last summer with Apple
Computer Inc. and Motorola Inc.
   IBM will also be announcing some midrange and high-end
workstations, which will be 20% to 30% more powerful than
those they supplant. One machine will clock in at more than
89 Specmarks, the standard unit of performance for
workstations. That will reclaim the performance lead from
H-P, which has a 75-Specmark machine.
   The IBM machines are expected to be available beginning in
February or March, the industry executives said.
   At the announcement, IBM will also make its entry into the
fast-growing market for routers, which help corporations tie
together their sprawling networks of personal computers or
workstations. In the past, companies typically had to handle
all their computer communication through a mainframe, but
routers allow small networks to be tied together without
using a big computer.
   Dixon Doll, general partner of venture-capital firm Accel
Partners, San Francisco, said, "IBM is coming into this
market late, with very much a me-too product." He said that
IBM had considered buying an existing product a year ago but
that the talks had fallen through. Mr. Doll said IBM would
try to catch up quickly with the small companies that
dominate the router market, but added that the computer giant
would probably have to develop two or three more generations
of the product before it would do so.