International:
   World Wire
   ----
   Compiled by Richard L. Holman
A new securities law in Italy poses risks in doing
business there, the International Securities Market
Association has warned its 900 members world-wide.
   The trade group, based in Zurich, Switzerland, said the
law, which took effect last week, contains ambiguities that
expose participants in the Italian securities business to
financial and other perils. It said violations could result
in fines and the inability to enforce contracts.
   The law regulates a new type of securities trading and
fund management company called Societa di Intermediazione
Mobiliare. The SIMs are to replace traditional brokerage
houses, which have had a monopoly on Milan's bourse. Foreign
and domestic market participants have complained about the
law, which the European Community might challenge.
   Italy will be the third-biggest debtor nation in the world
by year end-after the U.S. and Canada -- with foreign debt of
180 trillion lire ($157.34 billion), a Banca Nazionale del
Lavoro study predicted. The country ranked 10th in 1989.
                                                                                                       

   MEXICO GIVES REFORM A BOOST
                                                                                                       

   Mexico will merge its planning and budget agency into the
Finance Ministry, in the biggest cabinet shake-up since
President Carlos Salinas took office in 1988. The move would
give the U.S.-educated treasury chief, Pedro Aspe, sweeping
powers to continue economic reforms. It also was viewed as a
way to streamline control of the economy. The Planning
Ministry has handled spending, while the Finance Ministry
controlled revenue, foreign debt and privatizations.
                                                                                                       

   INDONESIA TO GET TAX HELP
                                                                                                       

   In an effort to collect more taxes, Indonesia will hire
private accounting firms. The firms will check invoices and
help verify that private companies are paying the value-added
tax correctly. Jakarta said at least 100 firms were
interested in the work, to begin in April, which will involve
only VAT payments and not income taxes. Indonesia has only
700 auditors to handle four million taxpayers.
                                                                                                       

   SEOUL ALLOWS U.S. AN EDGE
                                                                                                       

   Seoul agreed to allow U.S. telecommunications makers
unrestricted participation in bids for public projects in
that South Korean sector. The concession applies only to U.S.
suppliers and lengthens their bidding period to 40 days from
10. Other foreign participation remains restricted.
Exceptions are allowed only when South Korean companies can't
supply needed equipment. The move followed meetings between
South Korea and the U.S., and wasn't related to President
Bush's visit earlier this week.
                                                                                                       

   COMPENSATION CLAIMS IN HUNGARY

   Budapest has received claims totaling about 60 billion
forints ($793.7 million) under a program budgeted at 100
million forints to compensate owners for property seized
under Hungary's former communist regime, which took over in
1949. The conservative government set up a claims office in
August to make amends for plundered property and for lost
revenue. Compensation claims so far involve 42,000 buildings
and 13,000 enterprises.
                                                                                                       

   PACE OF GERMANY'S SELL-OFF
                                                                                                       

   Bonn sold all or part of 4,777 eastern German companies in
last year's first 11 months for total proceeds of 16 billion
marks ($10.56 billion). In the Treuhandanstalt privatization
agency's accords, buyers pledged to invest a total of at
least 105.1 billion marks in those firms and to guarantee
69,500 jobs. Of the sales, a third were in the service
sector, a fourth in the building area and 14% in the
machinery, vehicle and appliance industries.
                                                                                                       

   PRAGUE'S TRANSFORMATION LAUDED
                                                                                                       

   Czechoslovakia is moving apace to a market from a command
economy, the Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development said.
   But the Paris-based group warned of snags, such as
political pressures to heat up the economy in the run-up to
national elections. In its first economic survey of the Czech
and Slovak republics, the OECD said any attempt to relax the
tight policies could expose the economy's structural
weaknesses -- and Prague officials didn't disagree.
   The report said Czechoslovakia's biggest success has been
keeping inflation under control. The OECD said the rate could
drop to single digits this year from 55% last year. But
Prague forecast 1992 inflation of 15% to 20%. The government
faces pressure as workers seek to recoup part of last year's
wage cuts. Privatizations, despite needed improvements, are
proceeding with relative ease.
   The reforms' main cost has been a steep drop in output.
Gross domestic product, the value of all goods and services
produced in the country, dropped about 12% last year and
could fall 5% this year. The economy's weakness may push
unemployment up to 12% this year from 7% last year and 1% in
1990. Foreign debt of about $9 billion at Sept. 30 wasn't
viewed as a big problem. Hard-currency reserves exceed $2
billion.
                                                                                                       

   POSTSCRIPTS . . .
                                                                                                       

   Kuwait issued rules to limit drastically the number of
dependents that foreign workers can bring into the country.
The government wants to keep the total population at 1.5
million, with the number of Kuwaitis roughly equal to that of
foreign employees. . . . Britain's Property Services Agency
lost its contract to a private firm in bidding to maintain
Windsor Castle, a royal residence west of London, and 35
government carpenters, plumbers and other workers lost their
jobs.