Commodities:
   Oil Prices Rise as Iraqi-Inspired Rally Continues;
   March Contract Climbs 23 Cents to $19.50 a Barrel
   ----
   By James Tanner
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
On the New York Mercantile Exchange, crude oil for March
delivery settled 23 cents higher at $19.50 a barrel. On
London's International Petroleum Exchange, Brent crude
futures settled as much as 16 cents higher.
   Iraq drew credit for launching the rally, which began
Tuesday, by refusing to participate in further talks with the
United Nations over terms of a proposed emergency sale of
$1.6 billion of Iraqi oil. The latest talks were scheduled to
begin yesterday in Vienna, but the Iraqi officials didn't
show. Also yesterday, the U.N. Security Council officially
retained economic sanctions against Iraq to cast further
doubt of any resumption soon in Iraqi oil exports.
   But some traders and analysts suggested yesterday's
firming in prices was due more to technical and other factors
than to Iraq's withdrawal from the Vienna talks.
   "Technicians like the way the market has bottomed out,"
said John Hill, a vice president with the Merrill Lynch
energy trading desk. He noted the price of March crude broke
through significant levels, including $19.50 a barrel at
which it settled. Also, "the product supply-demand picture is
beginning to look a little tighter," he said, adding: "Behind
it all, OPEC meets in a week."
   Oil ministers of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries meet in Geneva next Wednesday to decide on output
levels. Prices usually firm ahead of such meetings as traders
turn cautious.
   At an economic forum in Switzerland, OPEC Secretary
General Subroto said "the first round" of measures to soak up
a world overhang of oil already has been taken by pledges of
nine exporters to cut production a total of 415,000 barrels a
day. According to Dow Jones International Petroleum Report,
Mr. Subroto estimated current OPEC output at 24.2 million
barrels a day.
   That is in line with the latest estimates by the
International Energy Agency. In its Monthly Oil Market Report
released yesterday, the agency, based in Paris, estimated
that OPEC's crude oil output totaled 24.3 million barrels a
day in January, down slightly from the December level.
Although OPEC's voluntary cuts had "no discernible effect" on
January volumes, they are expected to affect February
exports, the energy agency said.
   The agency also reaffirmed its expectations that world oil
demand, sluggish last year until a fourth-quarter rebound,
will continue rising. The agency reiterated earlier
projections that world oil demand will average 66.8 million
barrels a day for all of 1992 and 67.9 million barrels a day
for the first quarter, up 400,000 barrels a day for each
period.
   Most of the first-quarter increase is expected in the
24-nation Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development. The energy agency, which represents these
Western nations, said that OECD oil demand in the 1992 first
quarter is projected to increase 1.5% to 39.1 million barrels
a day. All of the growth is expected to occur in North
America. The energy agency said this reflects the weak level
of demand in the year-earlier quarter "but also assumes
increased economic activity."
   In other commodity markets yesterday:
                                                                                                       

   GRAINS AND SOYBEANS: Prices of wheat and soybean futures
contracts settled mixed amid growing confusion over how the
former Soviet republics want to use the latest allocation of
U.S.-backed food-buying loan guarantees. Traders are waiting
for the Agriculture Department to unveil the mix of U.S. food
that the Commonwealth of Independent States plans to buy with
the $200 million of loan guarantees they are slated to
receive this month. The U.S. has already agreed to allocate
additional loan guarantees to the commonwealth in March and
April. Grain traders are also mulling reports that Russia is
asking for a large allocation of loan guarantees separate
from the commonwealth.
                                                                                                       

   ORANGE JUICE: Futures prices tumbled. Juice for March
delivery dropped 3.35 cents a pound to $1.3785. Celeste
Georgakis, senior analyst at Cargill Investor Services, said
bearish sentiment was heightened on Tuesday when the four
major processors in Brazil released a 1992-93 crop projection
of 253 million 90-pound boxes, up from this year's estimated
245-million-box crop. Judith Ganes, senior analyst at Merrill
Lynch, added that government estimates of the Florida orange
crop are expected to be raised by three million to four
million boxes next Tuesday from the current projection of 136
million. Meanwhile, consumption in the U.S. is expected to be
sluggish, and perhaps even decline, because of the recession
and price increases earlier this year in major brands, Ms.
Georgakis said. Brazilian processors have been reluctant to
lower cash prices, currently at $1.75 a pound, Ms. Ganes
said, but pressures are increasing as futures prices fall
further. Futures prices could fall an additional 10 cents,
Ms. Ganes predicted.
                                                                                                       

   COFFEE: Futures prices continued to fall toward their
lowest level since the collapse of the international quota
system three years ago. March coffee settled at 68.90 cents a
pound, down 1.85 cents. Coffee prices bottomed soon after the
quota system ended in 1989 at 68.3 cents, which was the
lowest price since the early 1970s. Selling from producers
and roasters' reluctance to buy while prices are in a free
fall continue to push prices to new life-of-contract lows,
said Ms. Georgakis of Cargill. Brazil is expected to produce
a bigger crop than previously projected and Colombia produced
a bumper crop this year, she said. But consumption levels
haven't changed, she added, and inventories in consuming
countries remain very high. Prices might find support around
65 cents, she said.