International:
   Mexico Sells 51% Stake in Banca Serfin
   To Investor Group for About $940 Million
   ----
   By Dianna Solis
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Banca Serfin is Mexico's oldest bank. Its forerunner was
the Bank of London and Mexico. It has almost 22,000 employees
and almost 600 branches.
   Mr. Sada was narrowly edged out in his bid last October to
buy Bancomer S.A., Mexico's second-largest bank. At the time
of the Bancomer auction, it had $25.9 billion in assets.
Banca Serfin had about $22 billion in assets and about $125
million in profits as of year-end, said the Mexican Treasury
Ministry.
   The winners have the option of buying the remaining 16%
stake the government owns. The rest of the bank shares,
roughly a 33% stake, have been traded publicly on the Mexican
stock exchange for several years.
   Increasingly, the privatization auctions have become
debutante balls for the new ruling capitalists of this
changing country of 82 million. The new bankers can roughly
be divided into two camps: bluebloods and new blood. Mr.
Sada, for example, comes from the ranks of this
once-protectionist country's in-bred industrialist class who
built the city and economy of Monterrey, Mexico's industrial
capital. It was a relative of his who narrowly beat him for
the purchase of Bancomer.
   However, in last summer's sale of Banamex S.A., the crown
jewel of an 18-bank system, the victor was the son of a
cattleman and largely a self-made billionaire with a
contrarian approach to building his stock brokerage firm.
   Bidders have shown a hunger to launch full-service empires
that will capitalize on collective client bases and Mexico's
recent embrace of the European style of universal banking.
   Under such a system, the full-service finance house
typically runs a bank, a brokerage house and an insurance
company. In almost every one of the previous bank
privatizations, a brokerage house and its well-heeled clients
bought the Mexican bank.
   Mr. Sada, who is about 47 years old, brings banking
experience to his new post. He was the chief executive
officer of Banpais S.A. in 1982 at the time of the bank
nationalization and the start of the Mexican debt crisis. He
gained fame in 1989 when his glass-making giant, Vitro S.A.,
launched Mexico's first cross-border hostile takeover. Mr.
Sada holds an M.B.A. from the University of Pennsylvania's
Wharton School of Finance.