Politics  Policy:
   Florida Primary Race May Provide
   No Democrat With a Decisive Win
   ----
   By David Shribman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Tuesday's primary here is likely to produce just such a
patchwork -- pockets of Tsongas strength alternating with
patches of Clinton support all across Florida, with the
frustrating result that both men may depart the nation's
fourth-biggest state with substantial pools of convention
delegates. With a rough split of the state's 19 congressional
districts, Florida's primary may produce no decisive victor.
   In this political season of uncertainty, no state
underlines more clearly than Florida the importance that
party rules play in shaping the nomination struggle -- and no
state illustrates as vividly how this year's nomination
battle differs from 1988.
   "The delegates are going to be divided, and this race will
go the distance," says Democratic state Rep. Michael Abrams,
who headed the Florida campaign of Sen. Bob Kerrey, who
withdrew yesterday. "The Republicans know who their nominee
is, we won't know for a long time, and so we're giving the
Republicans a big advantage."
   Indeed, in the past several decades, the party that has
settled its nomination fight first has won the White House.
As President Bush looks increasingly weaker, the Democrats
look increasingly less likely to reach a swift conclusion to
their nomination battle. And with former Gov. Jerry Brown of
California still a potent force of protest, it's possible the
national convention could begin without any contender holding
a delegate majority.
   The situation here helps explain why.
   Four years ago, Michael Dukakis swept into Florida with a
campaign team steeped in the fine print of party rules and
alert to the demographic details that make Florida one of the
most politically complex states in the union. The
Massachusetts governor targeted the condo counties of South
Florida -- in one coastal swath he outdistanced his nearest
rival by a 5-1 margin -- and the retirement colonies of St.
Petersburg. He won 41% of the vote -- and the bonus effect of
the old rules gave him 66% of the delegates.
   But the rules have changed as much as the political
landscape has. The Democrats, in a bow to demands from the
Rev. Jesse Jackson, this year instituted a
proportional-representation scheme that makes a sweep like
Mr. Dukakis's extremely unlikely and sets the groundwork for
a split verdict. In short, in Florida and elsewhere, the
notion of a state "victory" is deceiving and the race is
structured for inconclusive results, if not for an impasse.
   Under the new Democratic rules, delegates are awarded in
direct proportion to the percentage of votes the candidates
receive. In Florida, for example, delegates are awarded on
the basis of both the statewide vote and the vote in each of
the 19 congressional districts.
   That means 97 delegates will be awarded in 19 separate
contests, one in each congressional district in the state;
only candidates who win at least 15% in a district are
eligible for delegates. At the same time, the candidates are
competing in a parallel contest for statewide delegates -- 51
of them, also distributed in direct proportion to the
statewide votes won by candidates who receive 15% or more of
the tally.
   The Republicans, by contrast, operate with a system that
in many places give statewide winners all of the delegates.
This winner-take-all system gave Mr. Bush all 52 delegates in
Georgia this week even though Patrick Buchanan won 36% of the
vote.
   In Democratic races like the Florida primary, small
investments of time and money in carefully targeted areas can
reap big harvests of delegates. But this time, second-place
and even third-place finishers can win more delegates than
they previously could, prolonging the national race even
more.
   "In all the Super Tuesday states, targeting makes a
difference," says George Stephanopoulos, Mr. Clinton's deputy
campaign manager. "You just have to make sure that you play
where it pays and win where it counts."
   The 148 delegates being distributed here next week make
Florida one of the jewels of Super Tuesday, which also
includes contests in six other Southern and Border states
(Louisiana, Mississippi, Missouri, Oklahoma, Tennessee and
Texas), three Eastern states (Delaware, Massachusetts and
Rhode Island) and Hawaii. In all, 783 pledged delegates will
be distributed Tuesday, more than a fifth of all the pledged
delegates to the convention.
   One place where Mr. Clinton is likely to sweep the
delegates next Tuesday is Oklahoma, where Mr. Tsongas is not
on the ballot.
   Here in Florida, Mr. Clinton and Mr. Tsongas are running
strong -- and close. Mr. Clinton has support in the panhandle
and in South Florida. Mr. Tsongas has pockets of strength
among northern emigres on the east coast and in the Greek
colony on the west coast.
   While Mr. Clinton has the support of the political
establishment, Mr. Tsongas's strategists know that in the
last two primaries here it has been the suburban and
well-educated voters -- the backbone of the Tsongas support
-- that have decided late and swung the election.
   American Demographics, for example, has found that Orlando
has by far the highest rate of population growth among
babyboomers in the country, more than 50 times the national
average, making it prime Tsongas territory. Though he is on
the defensive for proposals for means tests for wealthy
Social Security recipients, the profile of the state's
undecideds is nearly ideal for Mr. Tsongas.
   "There's a lot of South Florida that isn't afraid of
someone from Massachusetts," says Jon Mills, former speaker
of the state House. "And if he's looking for suburban voters
-- upper middle class, socially liberal, business-oriented --
that's a pretty good description of a lot of this state."
   But those voters are not the only staging area in a
battleground that's defined by population patterns and
congressional-district lines.
   In the Gold Coast region of Florida's east coast, for
example -- which spans six congressional districts in about
50 miles -- 29 delegates are at stake, making the area an
important testing ground. By contrast, a huge geographical
area running from Naples on the west coast to Palm Beach on
the east coast -- and touched on by the Fort Myers, West Palm
Beach and Miami media markets -- offers only five delegates.
   The east-coast areas are the most heavily contested right
now. "It's nice to win a state, but the name of the game here
is to win delegates," says Jeffrey Eller, who is directing
Mr. Clinton's efforts here. "The goal is to win the
nomination, not to get distracted over who wins how many
states."
   Mr. Clinton mobilized in the state early, putting together
a formidable organization to dominate the state convention in
December, win a bellwether straw poll and attract the
endorsement of leading political figures in the state.
   These established politicians, including Lt. Gov. Buddy
MacKay, flocked to Mr. Clinton's side, in part in a gesture
of self-interest. President Bush scored better in Florida
than in any of the biggest 10 states in 1988, and this year,
when Florida adds four new congressional seats and when the
public is antagonistic toward politicians, leading Democrats
are worried about their own survival.
   "We want someone on the ticket who can sell well in
Florida," says Linda Hennessee, a veteran Democratic
organizer in central Florida. "This is serious business to
politicians here."
   Endorsements, however, may be of limited value in a state
that has grown so fast that it has added the equivalent of
the population of Connecticut in the past dozen years,
changing the profile of the electorate.
   "Outside their very close friends, these politicians
aren't known by anyone," says Allan Katz, a Democrat
prominent in Tallahassee political circles. "This is a state
where there aren't established traditions -- very few people
go to the church their father did -- and so established
politicians can deliver about seven votes."