Investment Adviser
   Agrees to Settle
   Fraud Complaint
   ----
   By Pauline Yoshihashi
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The complaint, filed by the SEC's regional office in Los
Angeles, alleged that the two funds were "fraudulent since
their inception in December 1991." It accused Mr. Whipple and
Public Funding Group, an investment adviser, of grossly
overstating the funds' net asset values per share, which were
advertised at $20.50 for American Vision and $15.76 for
Public Funding.
   The two funds were purported to have $155 million in
assets under management, but Ms. Richards said there was "no
reasonable basis" for that valuation. The assets, thinly
traded stock and unrated, unmarketable "commercial paper"
notes, were acquired in exchange for shares of the funds, in
a deviation from the funds' investment policies, the SEC
said.
   The complaint further said the funds' shareholders had
sought $18.6 million in margin loans from broker-dealers in
at least eight states, using the funds' shares at their
inflated values as collateral.
   It was unclear which of the funds' unnamed shareholders
had sought the loans, or whether they knew at the time that
the value of the stock was inflated. Typically, brokerage
firms will lend as much as 50% of the value of the
collateral.
   Ms. Richards said the SEC began investigating the company
after receiving several inquiries from brokerage firms but
said it was not yet known if any had actually lent money on
the inflated shares. "This really was a fraud on the
brokerage industry," Ms. Richards said.
   The SEC also charged that Public Funding maintained
inadequate books and records and never maintained its assets
with a custodial financial institution as required by law.
   Mr. Whipple, described by the SEC as a 28-year-old
resident of Santa Monica, Calif., and Public Funding Group
officials were said by a secretary to be out of the office
and unavailable for comment. A lawyer for Mr. Whipple in New
York also couldn't be reached.