Politics  Policy:
   U.S. Is Conducting a Criminal Inquiry
   On House Bank, Lawmaker Overdrafts
   ----
   By Jeffrey H. Birnbaum
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The criminal inquiry, which began five months ago, was
prompted by the same General Accounting Office study that led
to a recent report by the House Ethics Committee. The GAO
found last fall that present and past House members had
written 8,331 checks on insufficient funds over nearly a
year's span in 1989-90.
   Mr. Liedl wouldn't indicate when a decision will be made
on any possible prosecutions.
   In the meantime, some of the biggest abusers of the
now-defunct House Bank might find that they will be hounded
by the Internal Revenue Service as well as by angry
constituents.
   Some tax experts contend that if the lawmakers' overdrafts
are big enough, they might owe significant back taxes to the
federal government. Under the law, those experts said, the
overdrafts could be considered as interest-free loans from
the government. In that case, the amount of interest that
should have been charged for the loans should be counted as
income.
   As a result, the largest offenders in the House could owe
the federal government thousands of dollars in taxes.
   "The big offenders are likely to find they have a
reasonably substantial tax problem as well as a public
relations problems," said Don Alexander, a former IRS
commissioner under three presidents and now a lawyer with
Cadwalader, Wickersham  Taft. "They might well hear from the
IRS."
   Some tax experts also questioned whether the House Bank
itself might be exposed to liability for failing to properly
notify the IRS about the transactions.
   The IRS declined to comment on the matter.
   Most of the 355 present and former House members who have
had overdrafts in recent years won't have a tax problem. The
back-taxes law generally affects only individuals who have
$10,000 in overdrafts at any one time.
   But at least some of the biggest abusers may fall into
that category. The 24 worst "abusers," who will formally be
named by the House Ethics Committee next week, were overdrawn
by more than their next month's payroll deposit for eight or
more months during the 39 months that ended Oct. 3, 1991. Two
months of deposits would exceed the $10,000 limit because the
net monthly pay for most members was about $7,000 during the
period.
   Lawmakers might escape paying extra taxes by asserting
that the overdrafts were used for business or investment
purposes and that the interest would be deductible. But that
argument isn't a strong defense. The overdrafts were from
personal checking accounts and probably were used for
personal expenses. Besides, saying the overdrafts were used
to make business profits probably would create an even larger
furor for a politician than being overdrawn.
   Separately, White House press secretary Marlin Fitzwater
said administration aides are inquiring into whether any top
Bush administration officials who are former House members
wrote bad checks at the House Bank. But he said that "at the
moment, we don't know."
   Cabinet members who served in the House include Defense
Secretary Dick Cheney, Housing Secretary Jack Kemp, Veterans'
Affairs Secretary Ed Derwinski, Labor Secretary Lynn Martin,
Agriculture Secretary Ed Madigan and Interior Secretary
Manuel Lujan. Deputy White House Chief of Staff Henson Moore
and Small Business Administration chief Patricia Saiki also
served in the House.
   Though a preliminary review by White House counsel Boyden
Gray didn't indicate any problem for top administration
officials, Mr. Fitzwater added that Mr. Gray is "making a
check" of the matter one more time.
   Mr. Fitzwater declined to say whether the White House had
received specific new information indicating that any Cabinet
member had bounced checks. "We aren't going to comment on any
individual or what anyone has told us . . . until we've
checked with everybody," Mr. Fitzwater said. He did say that
Mr. Bush didn't overdraw his account when he served in the
House in 1967-71. Separately, Vice President Dan Quayle
didn't bounce any checks as a House member "as far as he can
remember," according to spokesman Jeff Nesbit.
   Congressional critics meanwhile seized on the House Bank
scandal to call for changes in the way Congress operates.
Consumer activist Ralph Nader wrote to House Speaker Thomas
Foley (D., Wash.) and House Minority Leader Robert Michel
(R., Ill.) warning of a "citizen revolt" and seeking repeal
of recent pay increases and an end to congressional
perquisites.
   "The congressional pastime of perks, pensions and pay
grabs -- which are ever increasing and diversifying --
distracts, compromises and corrupts Congress," Mr. Nader
wrote. "These never-ending indulgences damage seriously what
is left of Congress's moral authority to govern and to
receive respect of the people."
   ---
   Joe Davidson in Washington and John Harwood in Chicago
contributed to this article.