Credit Markets:
   Bonds Fall as Jitters Remain About New Supply,
   Monetary Policy, Bush's Proposals for Growth
   ----
   By Constance Mitchell and Lynn K. Adler
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
Since peaking at 107 7/32 to yield 7.39% on January 8, the
price of the benchmark 30-year Treasury bonds has fallen
nearly five points, a loss of nearly $50 for each $1,000
bond. The sell-off has resulted from a number of factors,
including hedging activity related to a deluge of new
corporate debt and uncertainty about the future of monetary
policy. Another factor is fear about how President Bush's
proposals for economic growth will affect business activity
and the size of the nation's ballooning federal budget
deficit.
   Steven Ricchiuto, bond market analyst at Barclays de Zoete
Wedd Securities Inc., says that too much supply is the main
problem with the bond market.
   "Supply is what's plaguing the market," said Mr.
Ricchiuto. "You have new corporate bonds, mortgage-backed
securities and new municipal bonds. Add to that the
Treasury's {quarterly refunding of the federal debt} that
will soon take place and you end up with," a very nervous
market, he said. "No one wants to be aggressive in front of
supply." The Treasury will announce details of the quarterly
refunding next week. Analysts expect the federal government
to sell between $38 billion and $40 billion of securities.
   In trading yesterday, the market opened slightly lower
then staged a modest rally in late morning. But by early
afternoon, prices had begun to erode, a pattern that is
growing all too familiar.
   "Every morning we try to rally, but when we get to early
afternoon, sellers come into the market. We just can't seem
to hold the gains," said Leonard Santow, a director at Griggs
 Santow Inc., a financial advisory firm.
   Hardest hit yesterday were intermediate-term securities,
especially those with maturities between five years and 10
years. These securities, "got slaughtered," said Mr. Santow.
The latest 10-year Treasury note ended at a price of 101 8/32
to yield 7.30% compared with 101 22/32 to yield 7.24% on
Wednesday. The latest five-year notes ended at 99 to yield
6.46% compared with 99 9/32 to yield 6.405%.
   There were two explanations for the sharp sell-off in the
intermediate sector. Traders said that many investors,
fearful that the market may slide further but not ready to
turn completely bearish, are reshaping their portfolios to
take a defensive posture. They are doing this by adopting the
"barbell" strategy, selling intermediate-term securities and
heavily weighting their portfolios toward long-term
securities and short-term securities.
   That way, "you are long in case the market rallies and you
have a lot of cash in the case the market comes down. That's
one way a cash account can hedge," said an analyst at one
primary dealer.
   Mr. Santow believes that comments from White House Budget
Director Richard Darman may have battered intermediate-term
securities. Mr. Darman told Congress that the
administration's new budget proposals assume a shift from the
sale of longer-term debt to lower-yielding, shorter-term
securities.
   The remarks massacred intermediate-term securities, said
Mr. Santow, because investors are assuming that if the
Treasury reduces the amount of 30-year bonds it sells it will
fill in the gap by increased sales of intermediate-term
securities. (Of course, that would not explain why prices of
10-year notes declined so sharply, since the Treasury isn't
considering raising the auction size of that maturity.)
   Meanwhile, bond market participants continued to debate
prospects for further easing of monetary policy as they look
ahead to the next meeting of the Federal Open Market
Committee, beginning Tuesday. The FOMC is the Federal
Reserve's arm for setting and executing monetary policy.
   Some economists are looking for a further easing in
monetary policy, although there is widespread disagreement
over how soon.
   Michael Moran, chief economist at Daiwa Securities America
Inc., believes "the chances of the Fed easing monetary policy
next week are quite low" after its aggressive one-point cut
in the discount rate to 3.5% last month. "Having just eased
so substantially at the end of December, the Fed will hold
steady for a while," Mr. Moran says. But, he adds, "we will
get one more easing of Fed policy," likely before the end of
the first quarter.
   However, the Fed "is probably closer to easing than is
generally perceived," argues F. Ward McCarthy, managing
director of Stone  McCarthy Research Associates. "In the
Fed's parlance, the Fed will continue to be alert to signs of
economic weakness," and will be quick to ease in response to
continued sluggish economic activity, he adds.
   The latest economic data appear to support the view held
by many market participants that the economy has yet to
respond much to the most recent cuts in interest rates.
   Yesterday morning, the Commerce Department reported that
durable goods orders fell 5.0% in December, far surpassing
the 0.7% decline estimated on average by economists polled by
Dow Jones Capital Markets Report.
   And in another sign of an ailing labor market, initial
claims for state unemployment insurance rose 24,000 in the
week ended Jan. 18, in contrast with the 1,000 drop that had
been the average forecast.
   However, some Fed officials warn that indications of
economic weakness don't justify quick fixes by Congress and
the Bush administration.
   One such speaker was E. Gerald Corrigan, president of the
Federal Reserve Bank of New York, who appeared yesterday at
the New York State Bankers Association's mid-winter meeting.
"Perhaps nowhere is that temptation to find shortcuts more
dangerous than in regard to fiscal policy, especially in an
election year," he said.
   Any changes in fiscal policy, "should be surgically neat
and clean," should "give particular emphasis to the almost
desperate need to rebuild the stock of productive plant and
equipment in this country, and, above all, any changes must
not do further damage to the deficit outlook for the
intermediate term," said Mr. Corrigan.
   Separately, the Treasury market didn't react appreciably
to news that the M2 measure of money supply surged $16.1
billion in the week ended Jan. 20, significantly more than
the $7.5 billion jump that economists surveyed by Dow Jones
Capital Markets Report had forecast.
                                                                                                       

   Corporate  Junk Bonds

   Nearly $900 million of new debt hit the corporate market,
although about twothirds was offered by a single borrower,
the Federal Home Loan Banks.
   In the secondary market for corporate bonds,
investment-grade issues slumped, posting losses of 1/8 to 1/4
point. High-risk high-yield bonds, however, ended little
changed in a lackluster trading session.
   The Federal Home Loan Banks, which provides a flexible
credit reserve for member savings institutions, sold nearly
$600 million of debt securities in four offerings.
   The largest issue, $255 million of three-year notes, was
priced to yield 5.69% through underwriter Bear, Stearns  Co.
Additional notes in five-year, seven-year and 10-year
maturities were brought to market through different
underwriters.
   Proceeds from the offerings will be loaned to the agency's
members to extend mortgages to consumers.
                                                                                                       

   Mortgage  Asset-Backed Securities
                                                                                                       

   Mortgage securities prices ended lower, but losses were
tempered by dealer purchases for collateral for a long line
of planned real estate mortgage investment conduit deals.
   In secondary trading, Government National Mortgage
Association 7.5% securities for February delivery were down
10/32 at 96 30/32, Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp. Gold 7.5%
securities were off 6/32 at 96 1/32, and Federal National
Mortgage Association 7.5% securities were 7/32 lower at 95
26/32.
   In the area of Remic new issuance, a $500 million Freddie
Mac deal, series Gold 1222, backed by Freddie Mac Gold 8%
mortgage securities, was offered by Donaldson, Lufkin 
Jenrette Securities Corp.
   In addition to Remic issuance, mortgage securities market
players await the next round of prepayment statistics. That
kicks off with Monday's unveiling of Freddie Mac figures for
the mid-December to mid-January period.
   The statistics, along with coming Fannie Mae and Ginnie
Mae figures for all of January, are expected to confirm that
there was no letup in the mortgage refinancing spree that has
persisted for weeks.