Marketing  Media:
   Sharper Image Is Beefing Up Earnings
   By Adding More Items Priced Under $50
   ----
   By Carrie Dolan
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The strategy appears to have worked, at least during the
recent holiday shopping period. Sharper Image estimates
earnings for its fiscal fourth quarter ended Jan. 31 were
about $4 million, or 50 cents a share, double the
year-earlier level. Sales fell about 18% to an estimated $56
million from $69 million, Mr. Thalheimer said.
   The company will post a year-end loss. The loss for the
nine months ended Oct. 31 was $7.5 million, or 91 cents a
share, on sales of $85 million.
   Because of cost-cutting and higher profit margins, the
company was able to increase earnings in the quarter, despite
the sales drop. Profit margins in the quarter rose to 49%
from 40% a year ago. Mr. Thalheimer said Sharper Image
expects to post a per-share loss "in the mid-20 cents" range
for the fiscal first quarter, which ends April 30. The
year-earlier first-quarter loss was $3.5 million, or 43 cents
a share, on sales of $25.1 million.
   Since its disappointing 1990 Christmas selling season,
Sharper Image has been emphasizing lower-priced items hoping
to appeal to consumers who have become reluctant to spend
during the recession. "Our goal was to convert lookers to
buyers," said Mr. Thalheimer. "We had to have something for
them to buy on impulse." The company now has about 200 items
under $50, up four-fold from last year.
   During the 1991 holiday season, "it seemed like people
were seeking relief from the recession, and wanted to buy
things that were fun and made them feel better," Mr.
Thalheimer said. Chinese metal balls that buyers rotate in
their hand sold out at $25 a pair. Also popular is the "Dead
Ball," a $12.95 squishy rubber ball to crush for exercise and
stress relief.
   Last spring, the company decided to get out of the
name-brand electronics business because price wars made
margins too slim. Instead, the Sharper Image is stressing
apparel and footwear. In the fourth quarter, those items
accounted for 15% of sales, compared with about 1% a year
ago. Mr. Thalheimer expects apparel and footwear sales to be
about $30 million in the current fiscal year. He said a $215
walking shoe was a big seller, despite its price. "People
can't buy a new Mercedes, but they can afford the finest
walking shoe in the world," says Mr. Thalheimer.
   In an effort to gain higher margins, Sharper Image has
begun to put its name on certain items, such as silk shirts,
rather than just offering name brands.
   "We finally discovered the Sharper Image name commands a
high price. We own a good brand name. We just never used it."
He said binoculars with the Sharper Image name post margins
of 60% to 65%, vs. 50% on national name brands.
   For the current fiscal year ending Jan. 31, 1993, the
company's minimum goal is to earn about $640,000, or eight
cents a share, on sales of $150 million, Mr. Thalheimer said.
That estimate assumes a sluggish economy and another weak
Christmas. If the economy rebounds, profit is expected to hit
at least $1.6 million, or 20 cents a share.
   The new product mix is expected to be permanent. "People
have cut back on purchases in the $300-to-$1,500 range," Mr.
Thalheimer said. A high-tech stationary bike that sells for
$1,295 was one of the company's top three sellers in 1990;
last year it wasn't among the top 50 sellers.