International:
   Pain of Polish Transition Tests Walesa
   ---
   Criticized as Isolated, Leader
   Faces a Fierce Debate
   Over Austere Budget
   ----
   By Barry Newman
   Staff Reporter of the Wall Street Journal
"The message behind the ax was that I'd sit on the
sidelines and stir things up, though not all of this was part
of the president's job," he says now, seated at a marble
table in a gilded room at Belvedere, the presidential palace.
"The question is, do I act this way? My answer is yes."
   But presiding over the construction of a new system,
without benefit of a blueprint, has required more finesse
than leading the demolition of the old one. "I had never been
president before," says the president. "I thought it would be
simpler."
   His sharpest critics think everything would have been
simpler, if only Mr. Walesa hadn't moved into Belvedere. They
say he is isolated and ill-advised by an ever-present priest
and a minister of state who used to be his driver. They mock
his daily ping-pong game, his entries in crossword-puzzle
contests. And they argue that his election mistakenly gave
Poles reason to think that unshakable austerity wasn't the
only path to capitalism.
   The president doesn't exactly deny it.
   "Some people," he says, "thought I'd solve all problems
for everybody and bring them solutions on a silver platter.
That was a great mistake. But since many thought that way,
they're still waiting for me to come, with my ax, and put the
house in order."
   Diverse politicians picked up on a winning theme and
mercilessly pounded austerity in Poland's first free
legislative elections last October. The result was a
fragmented Parliament, with 29 parties, and a feeble
coalition government pledging to hold the line, and
simultaneously to spend more. A majority of deputies rejected
the government's program, some saying it promised too much,
others not enough.
   A rejection also arrived from the International Monetary
Fund, an essential prop for Poland's economy, in a letter
from director Michael Camdessus to Mr. Walesa. Last week,
President Bush sent Mr. Walesa another letter. The new
government's minister of finance, its second, went to
Washington this week vowing to the IMF to keep the deficit
below 5% of the gross domestic product, the total value of
goods and services produced in a year in Poland. Unless this
is done, the IMF has said it won't resume a series of loans
suspended in September.
   Yesterday, the Polish cabinet approved a 1992 budget
proposal that requires sharp spending cuts and higher taxes
to trim the deficit and satisfy the IMF and other Western
lenders. But the 403-trillion-zloty ($31 billion) budget must
be approved by Parliament in what is expected to be a fierce
political battle. Prime Minister Jan Olszewski has vowed to
resign if the budget isn't approved.
   The budget debate starts Monday in Parliament. If
Parliament balks, President Walesa says he's ready to grab
his ax.
   "Those who plan must have many alternatives," he says.
"One entails that, should these scattered parties not reach
agreement, the president should assume the functions of prime
minister. I would take over the post without a vote and form
an interim government. In a complicated moment, this could
prove the only solution."
   The president hopes it won't happen. He wears sober suits
now, at age 48, and has recently trimmed the walrus ends from
his gray moustache. He sees his only objective as stability,
something that requires realism, both by Poles and the
nation's Western bankers.
   "It's not as bad as all that," he says of Poland's
struggle to find its political feet. "It's good we are
quarreling."
   The government he named after his election, like much of
the world, "thought it was possible to change the economy
rapidly," he says. Now, the experience of escalating
unemployment and unrelenting recession has shown him that "it
is impossible to shed communism in a straightforward way."
Poland's government, Mr. Walesa says, "is trying to gear what
we want to what we can do."
   Axes aside, the president has little real power to keep
Poland on the tightrope between austerity and social unrest;
he has no direct say in economic policy. What he does have is
the gift of gab. His unfulfilled election promises may have
cost him popularity, but a radio station has just awarded him
its "Silver Mouth" award. Mr. Walesa still has a rare talent
for saying everything to every audience.
   To the West, his message is whispered through his
advisers: He wants to restrain inflation. And he will welcome
the return to the governmental fold of the Democratic Union,
the party led by Tadeusz Mazowiecki, the man Mr. Walesa beat
in the vicious presidential race that finished Solidarity as
a social movement.
   "Walesa, you know, is very strange," says Jan Litynski, a
Democratic Union party leader. "But he knows one thing --
it's necessary to negotiate with the IMF."
   When he addresses the public, though, the president plays
to a crowd that isn't only upset by the earthquake of change
but is searching for someone or something to blame.
   In his old home base, at a Solidarity Union meeting near
Gdansk this week, Mr. Walesa nominated the intellectuals:
"Where are all those wiseacres who spoke so beautifully and
posed as a legal and economic elite? They made their way in
the world at our expense."
   Back at his palace, he nominates the Western goods that
have poured into Poland since communism gave up the ghost.
"The West knew our market was empty," he says. "Therefore, it
tried to fill it. This temporary profit had tragic
consequences. It brought about the decline of our industry.
You can't bring about unemployment. You can't cause the
all-around shutting down of plants and factories."
   Economists here and abroad might find other ways to
explain the wreck of Polish industry. Yet the president's
tone does reflect the public mood. Of the 20 biggest Western
investments in Eastern Europe, only two have come to the
country where the Cold War began to end. The Poles feel
shortchanged.
   After a lifetime trying to crack the Soviet empire, Mr.
Walesa thinks his old persecutors could be shortchanged, too.
"This path cannot be taken with the post-Soviet nations," he
says. "Work has to be done. Money has to be earned." But
unlike some worriers, he has no fear of dictatorship rearing
up, in Poland or points east.
   "Our revolution isn't the result of wishful thinking," he
says. "It results from the development of civilization. It's
connected with satellites, international phone calls. Even if
another Stalin arose, he wouldn't be able to do what the
original did. The direction is firm. No one can turn it back.
What we don't know is how much it will cost and how long it
will take."