Heard on the Street:
   Russell, Athletic Wear Firm, Wins Acclaim
   By Looking Past Recession Into Long Term
   ----
   By Craig Torres
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Instead of following corporate fashion and slashing
employees to cut near-term costs, the Alabama concern kept
the work force intact, and continues to reap productivity
gains. The result, bulls say, has been a stock-price
performance that should inspire other manufacturers, be they
car makers or computer companies, to look and learn.
   Josie Esquivel, a Shearson Lehman Brothers analyst, says
Russell's stock could climb an additional 20% this year, on
the heels of this month's 6% rise to 37 3/4. Ms. Esquivel
figures Russell's earnings can grow at an average annual rate
of 18% for the next three years. Propelling profit will be
such new products as NuBlend -- a fabric technology that
banishes the small fuzzballs known as pilling -- as well as
contracts for uniforms for 21 out of 26 Major League baseball
teams.
   Early last year, as the recession pinched sales, Russell
decided not to lay off staff, if possible. Instead, Russell
rotated a crew of 14,100 nonunion workers through a four-day
work week, swallowing the overhead cost of keeping people
employed. That sent 1991 first-quarter earnings tumbling 78%
from a year earlier. So much for the quarter and Wall
Street's nervous Nellies; Russell saw itself as sacrificing
the bottom line temporarily to build long-term intangibles,
such as worker morale and commitment to quality.
   William P. Dickson Jr., Russell's vice president in charge
of personnel, says rather than cut sewing-machine operators,
the company pointed at management and "challenged {them} to
come up with cost savings" as the recession cut sales. That
meant clipped travel schedules, cheaper hotel rooms and fewer
seminars for the white-collar crew.
   And when's the last time you saw this: Russell's two top
executives froze their salaries at around $300,000 last year
(modest for a company running near $1 billion in annual
sales), and each declined to take a $100,000 bonus. (About
45% of the stock is held by insiders.)
   Russell has long showed an unusual commitment to its
workers. It has spent an average of $100 million annually on
automation over five years without replacing a single
employee with a robot. As you read this, some 500 children of
Russell employees are attending day-care centers at the
company, or after-school programs to refine reading skills.
Old-time paternalism? No. Arftul management, say the bulls on
the stock. Sales per employee -- one measure of how the staff
may or may not be kicking in for a company -- rose about 8%
in 1991 to $54,511. And that's up about 15% since 1987.
   "I think we get an immeasurable commitment to production
and quality" by helping employees, Mr. Dickson says. Buyers
of Russell's goods include Walt Disney, Lands' End and
Wal-Mart Stores.
   Steven Vannelli, a buyer of Russell when the stock was on
the ropes last year, says the high quality of the company's
clients and products gave him confidence that the shares
would move higher, despite bad news about consumer spending.
"They are the best at what they do," says Mr. Vannelli,
portfolio manager at Kingsley Jennison, McNulty  Morse, a
San Francisco firm. "And with their customer base, you had to
figure that orders would come back." They did; Russell
crossed the finish line in 1991 with record annual sales of
$804.5 million.
   Russell doesn't sew garments overseas, except for a small
Scottish operation. It controls products from start to
finish, buying raw cotton from farmers it knows, spinning
yarn, dyeing it and sewing it into athletic wear. This
start-to-finish approach stabilizes quality and helps keep
costs down. In turn, Russell's recognizable quality gives the
company pricing power, analysts say. Consumers don't mind
paying a bit more for goods worth their dollars. According to
analysts, Russell is pushing through a 5% price boost on some
lines this year.
   Today, Russell shares trade at more than 18 times this
year's estimated pershare earnings of $2.05, a multiple too
high for some analysts. Last week, Prudential Securities
analyst Deborah Bronston slapped the stock with a "hold"
rating, "purely on the basis of valuation."
   But maybe investors should follow Russell's example and
take the long view. The stock is "a strong hold for us," says
Eric McKissack, portfolio manager at Ariel Capital
Management, which started acquiring its hefty 2.2
million-share position back in August 1987 for an average
cost of less than $20 a share.
   ---
   Russell Corp.
   (NYSE; Symbol: RML)
                                                                                                       

   Business: Athletic wear
                                                                                                       

   Year ended Jan. 4, 1992:
   Sales: $804.6 million
   Net income: $56.8 million; or $1.38 a share
                                                                                                       

   Fourth quarter Jan. 4, 1992:
   Per-share earnings: 64 cents vs. 48 cents
                                                                                                       

   Average daily trading volume: 67,574 shares
                                                                                                       

   Common shares outstanding: 41 million