International:
   World Wire
   ----
   Compiled by Richard L. Holman
Britain's merchandise trade deficit for February was wider
than expected, though economists found glimmers of hope for
the recession-racked economy in the report.
   The trade gap of #1.05 billion ($1.8 billion) narrowed
from January's #1.16 billion deficit, revised from an initial
estimate of #1.1 billion. Excluding oil and irregularly
traded items, the gap shrank to #1.12 billion, in line with
the average for the past six months, from #1.34 billion.
   But the data also showed advances in imports and exports,
indicating Britain's economy isn't stuck. The imports gain,
to #10.05 billion last month from #9.45 billion in January,
signaled that domestic demand began to turn up. Exports'
competitive performance, a rise to #9 billion from #8.29
billion, showed fairly buoyant growth, despite global
economic weakness.
   The trade figures are Britain's last major economic
indicator to be issued before the national elections on April
9.
                                                                                                       

   JAPANESE TO BUY LONDON LANDMARK
                                                                                                       

   A Japanese property company said it agreed to buy London's
County Hall, the historical headquarters of the Greater
London Council, which was disbanded by former Conservative
Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher. But the deal with Shirayama
Corp. of Osaka could be undone if the Labor Party wins the
April 9 general elections. Kyodo news service, quoting
British sources, said the deal is worth about #200 million
($340 million).
                                                                                                       

   BAGHDAD STOCK EXCHANGE OPENED
                                                                                                       

   Iraq launched the Baghdad Stock Exchange, the first in the
capital since 1938, in a campaign to expand private
enterprise and aid in Gulf War reconstruction. But only one
stock was traded experimentally to show government officials
the principles of dealing. The exchange, with trading limited
to Iraqis, could open for business next week for one or two
days with 38 companies listed. Between 1987 and 1990, Iraq
privatized about 80 businesses, their shares traded through a
bank or private deals. Many that rely on imports were set
back by United Nations sanctions imposed on Iraq in August
1990.
                                                                                                       

   KOHL RESTATES TRADE STAND
                                                                                                       

   German Chancellor Helmut Kohl, after a U.S. visit with
President Bush, reiterated his vow to push for a successful
conclusion to stalled global trade talks by the end of April.
But he played down the idea that Bonn might help the U.S. by
twisting arms in Europe. France has led European Community
opposition to deep agricultural-subsidy cuts, which the U.S.
insists upon. Bonn has long hinted willingness to compromise
and blames France's stubbornness. Without an accord on the
issue, the trade-enhancing package being negotiated under the
General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade could collapse.
                                                                                                       

   INDIAN RUPEE'S CONVERTIBILITY
                                                                                                       

   Three weeks after it was made partly convertible for trade
purposes, the Indian rupee has weakened below projections.
But activity in the currency markets is orderly and full
convertibility may come sooner than the two or three years
predicted. In its new budget last month, New Delhi made the
rupee partly convertible for foreign-currency dealings and
accounts. The move has been curbing the black market in
foreign currency, as intended.
                                                                                                       

   JAPAN'S CANCER DEATH RATES
                                                                                                       

   The number of deaths in Japan from lung or colon cancer in
1990 increased from 1975, the Health and Welfare Ministry
said. The agency's survey, conducted every five years and
based on census data, also found that the 1990 mortality rate
for every 100,000 people was higher for men, at 747.9, than
for women, at 423. Men's cancer death rate increased to 215.6
per 100,000 in 1990 from 198.9 in 1975. But this rate for
women decreased to 107.7 from 121.1. Gastric cancer declined
among both men and women. Also, total deaths from heart
diseases or strokes in 1990 decreased from 1975.
                                                                                                       

   POLAND UNVEILS AUSTERE BUDGET
                                                                                                       

   Pressed by international lenders and beset by recession
and debt, Poland's weak center-right government unveiled a
strict budget that orders steep price increases for coal,
electricity, natural gas, gasoline, train fares, medicines
and rents.
   Officials told Parliament and unions that failure to back
the proposals would mean economic collapse. They portrayed
the budget as a painful but unavoidable step finally to put
an end to subsidies and unrealistically high social-security
obligations left over from the Communist era.
   Nonetheless, resistance is expected next month when
Parliament debates the plan, which calls for higher taxes,
cutbacks in welfare payments, and limits on wage boosts and
public-sector spending.
   The 403.6 trillion-zloty ($32.53 billion) budget allows
for only a 65.5 trillion-zloty deficit, or 5% of projected
gross national product. That gap was the widest acceptable to
the International Monetary Fund, which gave conditional
approval last week. IMF support is vital to Poland's
continued backing by Western governments and banks in
shifting to a market economy.
                                                                                                       

   POSTSCRIPTS . . .
                                                                                                       

   Eastern Europe's first graduate program in American
studies was inaugurated at Warsaw University. The
degree-granting program is an outgrowth of the American
Studies Center, set up with several U.S. universities'
cooperation in 1976, when Poland was still a Communist
country. . . . Kazakhstan issued its first postage stamp
since becoming an independent state in December. The stamp
depicts a golden warrior on a red background, symbolizing
freedom of the former Soviet republic.