Global Dogfight:
   World's Major Airlines
   Scramble to Get Ready
   For Competitive Battle
   ---
   American and United, Aided
   By Hubs Such as Chicago,
   Seem the Best-Positioned
   ---
   The Bane of Political Control
   ----
   By Asra Q. Nomani
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
It also may never get off the ground. The talks remain
preliminary, and government approval could be denied.
(Northwest is 49%-owned by KLM, which disclosed last fall it
was talking with British Air.)
   But mere discussion of such a plan underlines the new
sense of urgency. As the focus of competition shifts from a
domestic to an international dogfight, the giant carriers are
scrambling for position, spurred by forecasts that by the
year 2000 global passenger traffic will nearly double.
   The global airline industry is at a "crossroads," United
Airlines Chairman Stephen Wolf told travel executives last
year. Addressing financial planners and analysts, Japan
Airlines Chairman Susumu Yamaji says he envisions a "new
shape" of the industry. And Abdul Aziz bin Abdul Rahman,
Malaysia Airlines' recently retired managing director, thinks
the major airlines are "trying to corner the global market."
   The battle is heating up partly because Europe is about to
open its borders. Asia is also becoming a more important
market. And in the U.S., where the battle for domestic
survival is winding down, the winners are turning their
attention overseas.
   Which airlines are most likely to be flying high?
   The two best-positioned carriers, AMR Corp.'s American
Airlines and UAL Corp.'s United Airlines, didn't even fly
overseas only 10 years ago. The two U.S. carriers are the
biggest, toughest competitors of the major Western airlines
and will continue to benefit from their strength in the
critical U.S. market.
   "They're not going to dominate all markets, but they're in
the best position to become the Coke and Pepsi of {the
world's} airlines," says William Kutzke, a former vice
president of airline planning at Northwest. "I'd be worried
if I was sitting on a major route where American and United
had come in."
   Another U.S. giant is likely to play a more modest role.
Delta Air Lines, though bolstered by its recent purchase of
international routes from now-defunct Pan American World
Airways, may be held back by its traditionally slow way of
reacting to competitors' moves and cautious way of expanding
operations. A fourth large American carrier, USAir, has
confined itself to domestic operations so much that it hardly
ranks as an international player.
   However, mergers or other maneuvers -- such as the
possible British Airways/KLM/Northwest consortium -- could
quickly change the race. In addition to American and United,
more than 20 other major international airlines are at the
starting gate. They range from European giants such as
British Airways, Lufthansa German Airlines and Air France to
Asian lines such as Japan Airlines, All Nippon Airways and
Singapore Airlines.
   Many international carriers undoubtedly will survive as
niche players, much like Dallas-based Southwest Airlines in
the U.S. And some will keep flying strictly because of
government protectionism.
   Over time, airline experts say, the factors that will
determine which lines gain the most will differ little from
the factors that proved critical following deregulation of
the U.S. airline market in 1978. The carriers that succeeded
were those that began with major advantages.
   One such advantage lies in airport gates and landing
rights. In part, airline competition resembles the game of
Monopoly, in which control of Park Place and Boardwalk is
critical. It's no coincidence that the U.S. carriers that
emerged on top -- United and American -- are also the two
largest at Chicago's O'Hare International. That airport's
size and central location gave them a major territorial
advantage. Competitors could benefit for a while from
near-monopolies in places such as St. Louis, Minneapolis and
Pittsburgh, but none of those offered O'Hare's strategic
advantages.
   Similarly, "those carriers that have the large real estate
and focused infrastructure in the financial capitals of the
world are going to be best-positioned," says Harold Pareti,
former president of People Express, a post-deregulation U.S.
start-up that died. That means places such as London, Tokyo,
New York and Chicago -- major transportation hubs. And that's
a major advantage for British Airways, which has 38% of the
takeoff and landing slots at London's Heathrow Airport, and
Japan Airlines, which controls 26% of the slots at Tokyo's
Narita.
   On the other hand, flying out of remote places is a huge,
and perhaps inescapable, problem for airlines such as
Auckland-based Air New Zealand, Melbourne-based Qantas and
Montreal-based Air Canada.
   International airlines also are racing to develop the
so-called hub-and-spoke systems that emerged in the U.S.
Point-to-point route structures are vulnerable because they
rely solely on the demand for travel between two cities.
Hub-and-spoke systems increase the traffic on individual
routes by mixing together passengers traveling to different
destinations. That fills planes and increases profits.
   Currently, carriers such as Zurich-based Swissair,
Singapore Airlines, Hong Kong's Cathay Pacific Airways and
KLM of the Netherlands fly proportionately more
point-to-point service than do their large U.S. rivals and
are likely to suffer. In addition, their hub flying comes
from single hubs in home markets that are small compared with
the U.S. "The global airline battle is going to be driven by
hubs and spokes," says Cyril Murphy, United's vice president
of international affairs.
   Surprisingly, something not expected to make much
difference is the quality of in-flight service. Even though
international travelers tend to put more emphasis on service
than domestic ones do, most of the world's major lines can
match each other in offering amenities in the cabin -- except
for Aeroflot. Though almost twice as big as any other
carrier, the Moscow-based airline's reputation for service is
dismal.
   "The absence of quality service is disastrous, but high
quality in and of itself isn't going to produce a successful
airline," says Jon Ash, a former vice president at Trans
World Airlines.
   And two competitive weapons that have been highly
effective in the U.S. -- frequent-flier programs and control
of computerized reservation systems -- may not be so
important in the global arena. They are no longer new, and
most major carriers are determined to be competitive with
both.
   Far more important is a carrier's ability to respond
nimbly to changing market conditions. United and American,
fresh from competitive battles in the U.S., are able to react
faster than their foreign rivals, many of which have long
been sheltered by their governments. On the eve of Pan Am's
shutdown last month, United's executives quickly readied
requests for temporary flying rights on Pan Am's Latin
American routes. Within a week, United had won permanent
route authority in Pan Am's bankruptcy-court auction.
   Conversely, government-owned carriers are likely to suffer
more from government interference than they gain from the
resulting financial security. British Airways' operations
improved sharply and Japan Airlines' business expanded
significantly after the carriers were privatized in 1987. But
carriers such as Alitalia in Rome and Thai Airways
International in Bangkok remain shackled to government.
   "It's not until carriers get out of the protection of
their governments and into the wet that they will be able to
sharpen their commercial acumen," says Michael Lumb at Alan
Stratford  Associates, a U.K. aviation-consulting firm.
   On the other hand, government help is needed to obtain
access to the world. International route authority and even
airport gates are often determined by bilateral government
negotiations. And airlines need their own governments'
permission for international flights. "If you can't get more
traffic rights, you can't grow," says Henri Wassenbergh, a
recently retired KLM senior vice president.
   The Japanese and Europeans are adept negotiators, but the
Americans have an advantage because they have more to bargain
with -- access to numerous major U.S. cities, compared with
the handful that most smaller countries can offer. And by
even optimistic estimates, European nations aren't likely to
be negotiating as a bloc until at least the end of this
decade.
   Meanwhile, otherwise-liberal governments have started to
try to close their doors. Germany, which has long granted
U.S. airlines virtual "open skies," is changing its tune now
that they are flooding in and stealing traffic from
Lufthansa, whose access to the U.S. is heavily restricted.
France is doing the same.
   "Everybody has illusions of grandeur in the airline
business. The Italians and the French and the Portuguese and
the Spanish are still going to want national airlines," says
Stephen Miller, a founder of Dragon Air, a Hong Kong start-up
that's now an affiliate of Cathay Pacific.
   Government restrictions, however, won't be able to
overcome the major carriers' sheer size. "At the end of the
day, it's fleet size that will put carriers in the big
league," says Michael Kellaway, an airline consultant in
Melbourne.
   A British Airways booklet, "Manifesto for Civil Aviation
in the 1990s," depicts the tail of a British Air plane,
dwarfed next to gigantic tails of American, United and Delta
jets. The point: All three have a fleet more than twice the
size of British Air's current 235 planes. American has the
largest, at 622 -- more than British Airways, Air France and
Lufthansa combined.
   "We are prepared to box," Air France Chairman Bernard
Attali recently exclaimed to a group of U.S. aviation leaders
in Washington. "But you want us to take on U.S.
heavyweights," and Air France, he said, is a "lightweight."
The two Tokyo-based carriers, Japan Airlines and All Nippon
Airways, also have small fleets -- fewer than 120 planes
apiece.
   And the big carriers are likely to get bigger. Currently,
United, American and Delta have a total of 582 planes on
order, while the orders of Lufthansa, KLM, British Airways
and Air France total only 222, and Japan Airlines and All
Nippon combined have only 107 orders in place.
   Ultimately, airline balance sheets will play a major role
as well. With the global airline market growing rapidly,
airlines need huge amounts of capital just to buy enough
planes to stay in the game.
   Already, many airlines can't afford the financing that
their expansion plans require. That problem is most evident
at carriers wedded to government subsidies. Although Air
France was recently cleared to receive a government infusion
of two billion francs (about $370 million), that will mostly
just bolster its balance sheet and won't fuel much aggressive
growth.
   David Treitel at Simat, Helliesen  Eichner, an airline
consulting group based in New York, estimates U.S. airlines'
annual financing requirements at $19 billion. Of that huge
sum, he says, $10 billion will have to come from
nontraditional sources, such as new equity offerings, asset
sales, tax credits and governments.
   That partly explains why Northwest Airlines may be eager
to link up with British Airways and KLM. Northwest's parent,
Wings Holdings, appears to be among the world's most heavily
leveraged major airline holding companies, with a
current-assets-to-liabilities ratio of 54.3% as of July 31.
Northwest, though, says its debt isn't a problem, partly
because of assets that are more valuable than book values
indicate.
   The three airlines are considering an organization much
like Royal Dutch/Shell Group, which has separate British and
Dutch units under a single holding company, or Unilever, a
consumer-goods company with legally separate British and
Dutch units. Northwest would be the U.S. division,
concentrating on U.S. domestic service and U.S.-Asia flights.
KLM and British Airways would be the European division, with
most of the intra-European and trans-Atlantic service,
according to people familiar with the plan. Which line, if
any, would become the main Europe-Asia carrier apparently
remains undecided.
   Northwest and Air France are behind their rivals because
their jet fleets averaged more than 10 years of age at the
end of 1990, according to Avmark Inc., an Arlington, Va.,
consulting group. By comparison, British Airways' fleet
averaged 9.7 years and JAL's 8.6 years. United's fleet
averaged about 12.3 years, but Julius Maldutis, a Salomon
Brothers Inc. analyst, estimates that its aggressive
new-aircraft delivery schedule will bring that down to 8.5
years by 1995.
   British Airways and Lufthansa, meanwhile, are struggling
to reduce their high operating costs. And Japan Airlines and
All Nippon, with plans for new airport facilities and
aircraft, are both facing a lot of capital expenses.
Nonetheless, Japan Airlines says new airport facilities and
planes are a "priority."
   Compared with their overseas rivals, American, United and
Delta have better cost structures. "They've been through a
gut wrenching for the last 13 years," says Rose Anne Tortora,
an airline analyst at County NatWest Securities in New York.
Based on one productivity analysis, U.S. airlines' costs are
at least 20% lower than foreign airlines' costs, partly
because U.S. employees are more productive.
   Thus, unless they run into significant governmental
roadblocks, carriers such as United and American seem most
likely to become global mega-carriers. Though neither has yet
struck the financial bonanza expected to follow the
competitive battles of U.S. deregulation, the advantages they
bring to global competition may, in the end, prove to be the
biggest prize.
   ---
    Snapshots of the World's Major International Airlines
                                                                                                       

   The carriers are bringing to the coming competitive battle
a wide variety of advantages and disadvantages of fleet size
and route structure.
                                                                                                       


                                                                                                       

                         PASSENGERS
                                                                                                       

   Number of passengers in 1990 in millions
                                                                                                       

   Areoflot                                    137.7
   American                                     73.3
   Delta                                        65.8
   USAir                                        60.1
   United                                       57.6
   Northwest                                    41.0
   Continental                                  35.5
   All Nippon                                   33.1
   British Airways                              25.2
   TWA                                          24.5
   JAL                                          23.4
   Lufthansa                                    22.4
   Alitalia                                     18.2
   Air Inter                                    17.1
   Iberia                                       16.2
   Air France                                   15.7
   America West                                 15.6
   SAS                                          14.9
   Japan Air System                             13.4
   Korean Air                                   12.3
                                                                                                       

   Sources: Global Aviation Associates Ltd. and Orient
Airlines Assoication
                                                                                                       

                           FLEET SIZE
                                                                                                       

   Number of airplanes
                                                                                                       

   Areoflot                                   1,437*
   American                                     622
   Delta                                        538
   United                                       487
   USAir                                        429
   Northwest                                    356
   Continental                                  350
   British Airways                              235
   Lufthansa                                    224
   TWA                                          196
   SAS                                          132
   Southwest                                    123
   Air France                                   120
   America West                                 120
   All Nippon                                   119
   Iberia                                       114
   JAL                                          113
   Saudi Arabian                                110
   Air Canada                                   103
   Alitalia                                      96
                                                                                                       

   *Estimated
                                                                                                       

   Source: The airlines and Global Aviation Associates Ltd.
                                                                                                       

                           TRAFFIC
                                                                                                       

   Paying passengers carried one kilometer in 1990 in
billions
                                                                                                       

   Aeroflot                                   243.8
   American                                   123.8
   United                                     122.5
   Delta                                       95.0
   Northwest                                   83.9
   British Airways                             65.9
   Continental                                 63.0
   USAir                                       57.2
   TWA                                         55.7
   JAL                                         55.3
   Lufthansa                                   41.5
   Air France                                  36.8
   All Nippon                                  33.1
   Singapore                                   31.5
   Qantas                                      27.8
   Air Canada                                  26.7
   KLM                                         26.7
   Cathay Pacific                              23.6
   Alitalia                                    22.8
   Iberia                                      22.1
                                                                                                       

   Sources: Global Aviation Associates Ltd. and Orient
Airlines Association
   ---
                   NORTH AND SOUTH AMERICA
                                                                                                       

   AIR CANADA
                                                                                                       

   Canada's largest carrier, with 55% of domestic market.
Sold by government to public three years ago. Since 1990,
slashed work force 17% to 19,600. Serves U.S., Caribbean and
Europe. Seeks more U.S. routes and is talking to USAir about
an alliance, but effort to crack Asia market on hold. Wants
to merge international operations with Canadian Airlines
International. Expects to report losses for 1991 fourth
quarter and first two 1992 quarters.
                                                                                                       

   Revenue passengers: 26.7 bill.
   Rank: 16
   Passengers: 11.8 million.
   ---
   AMERICA WEST
                                                                                                       

   The weakest of carriers in Chapter 11. It has shed routes
and employees, but it's still low on cash. Sold its lone
international route, Phoenix-Honolulu-Nagoya, to Northwest
Airlines as part of a much-needed financing package. Has
pulled back slightly from its West Coast expansion and is
trying to expand domestically in the East.
                                                                                                       

   Revenue passenger kilometers: 17.8 bill.
   Rank: 24
   Passengers: 15.6 million.
   ---
   AMERICAN AIRLINES
                                                                                                       

   The largest and one of the strongest U.S. carriers. Spent
heavily on overseas expansion, more than $1 billion since
1989. Added London hub last year, will beef up Paris flights.
Weak in Pacific Rim. First-class international service
includes haute cuisine. Labor costs up. Cutting
capital-spending plans by more than $8 billion through
mid-1990s. Fourth-quarter loss likely after nine-month
deficit of $115 million.
                                                                                                       

   Revenue passenger kilometers: 123.8 bill.
   Rank: 2
   Passengers:73.3 million.
   ---
   CANADIAN AIRLINES INTERNATIONAL
                                                                                                       

   Holds 45% of Canada's domestic market; serves Europe,
Latin America, Asia and a few U.S. cities. Wants more routes
to U.S. and alliance with U.S. carrier. Won't comment on
specualtion it may sell a minority stake to American Air. A
unit of PWA Corp. of Calgary, Alberta, it doesn't want to
merge international operations with Air Canada's. Expects
losses for fourth quarter and first two quarters of 1992
after nine-month loss of C$89.9 million.
                                                                                                       

   Revenue passenger kilometers: 21.6 bill.
   Rank: 21
   Passengers: 8.6 million
   ---
   CONTINENTAL AIRLINES
                                                                                                       

   Trying to stay an international player on a budget. In
Chapter 11 since December 1990. Has frozen wages, cut jobs
and 6% capacity. Still scouting for investors or merger
partner. Most international passengers prefer rival lines.
Flies only to London, Paris and Frankfurt in Europe; adding
Madrid and Munich this year. A marginal Pacific player after
sale of Seattle-Tokyo route and proposed sale of Air
Micronesia joint venture. Is No. 1 U.S. carrier in Mexico.
                                                                                                       

   Revenue passenger kilometers: 63.0 bill.
   Rank: 7
   Passengers: 35.5 million.
   ---
   DELTA AIR LINES
                                                                                                       

   Domestic powerhouse. Finally caught up overseas with
United and American with last year's $416 million purchase of
Pan American World Airways' assets. Indigestion from that
acquisition will cause two quarters of losses. Eventual
payoff: a Frankfurt hub and tripled trans-Atlantic service.
Building a Taipei hub and beefing up Pacific flights. Known
for excellent U.S. in-flight service.
                                                                                                       

   Revenue passenger kilometers: 95.0 bill.
   Rank: 4
   Passengers: 65.8 million.
   ---
   NORTHWEST AIRLINES
                                                                                                       

   Talking with a laundry list of airlines to try to get into
winners' circle; among them, KLM and British Airways about
joint venture. Distant No. 4 among U.S. carriers, behind
American, United and Delta. Debt-ridden from 1989 buy-out of
NWA Inc. parent. Accounting firm of Price Waterhouse recently
reported airline at "critical juncture" and facing
"significant hurdles." Hopes to use some $838 million in
Minnesota state funds to pay down debt.
                                                                                                       

   Revenue passenger kilometers: 83.9 bill.
   Rank: 5
   Passengers: 41.0 million.
   ---
   TRANS WORLD AIRLINES
                                                                                                       

   Spans globe in name alone. Plans "pre-packaged" Chapter 11
filing soon. Owner Carl Icahn expected to remain in control
after reorganization, keeping six of 11 board seats for one
year after it is completed. Then, will open board to
shareholder election. Sold London hub to American last year.
Pessimists estimate reorganization would give TWA only
another 18 to 36 months.
                                                                                                       

   Revenue passenger kilometers: 55.7 bill.
   Rank: 9
   Passengers: 24.5 million.
   ---
   UNITED AIRLINES
                                                                                                       

   Perhaps world's best-positioned carrier. About to become
only one with major operations in North Atlantic, Pacific and
Latin America. Gained from Pan Am's demise; bought its
Pacific operations for $715 million, London operations for
$400 million, Latin American operations for $135 million.
Third-quarer earnings dropped 76% to $25 million. Balance
sheet strong. Increasing capacity about 12% this year. New
labor pacts in place.
                                                                                                       

   Revenue passenger kilometers: 122.5 bill.
   Rank: 3
   Passsengers: 57.6 million
   ---
   USAIR
                                                                                                       

   Big U.S. domestic player, but barely in global picture.
Expects to report 1991 pretax loss in excess of $500 million,
after 1990 net loss of $454 million. Cutting costs to save
about $400 million this year; unions haven't yet agreed to
concessions. Inching forward overseas; just agreed to buy
TWA's rights to London from Philadelphia and Boston for $50
million.
                                                                                                       

   Revenue passenger kilometers: 57.2 bill.
   Rank: 8
   Passengers: 60.1 million
   ---
   VARIG
                                                                                                       

   Traditional domination of Brazilian market being
challenged by new competition. Upstart Brazilian rival, VASP,
shaking up domestic market with price wars. Long-exclusive
international privilege also being challenged by an opening
of Brazil's skies. Varig and domestic affiliate, Cruzeiro do
Sul, posted 1990 net loss of $145.1 million. Expects to
report a 1991 loss.
                                                                                                       

   Revenue passenger kilometers: 16.5 bill.
   Rank: 26
   Passengers: 6.9 million
   ---
                             EUROPE
                                                                                                       

   AEROFLOT
                                                                                                       

   The world's largest airline, for now, at least. Could
crumble much like its former home state, the Soviet Union.
Now flying for Commonwealth of Independent States.
Headquarters in Russia. Had already been divided into
regional divisions before Soviet Union's collapse. Analysts
expect some former Soviet republics to try to take control of
their divisions. Aeroflot officials, however, insist there
are no plans to dismantle the airline.
                                                                                                       

   Revenue passenger kilometers: 243.8 bill.
   Rank: 1
   Passengers: 137.7 million
   ---
   AIR FRANCE
                                                                                                       

   Recent merger of operations with largest French
competitors, domestic carrier Air Inter and long-haul carrier
Union des Transports Aeriens, creates virtual monopoly of
French market. Air Inter, UTA report as separate units under
Air France Group. Planned stake in Belgian flag carrier
Sabena on hold pending formation of new Belgian government.
Plans stake in CSA Czechoslovak Airlines. Hopes to be
profitable by 1993. Consolidated loss of 1.15 billion francs
in 1991 first half.
                                                                                                       

   Revenue passenger kilometers: 36.8 bill.
   Rank: 12
   Passengers: 15.7 million
   ---
   ALITALIA
                                                                                                       

   State-holding company, Istituto per la Ricostruzione
Industriale, owns 81%. Losses of 104.2 billion lira in 1991
first half; expects to report break-even second half. New
10-year government route pact guarantees virtual monopoly in
Italy; European Community liberalization may weaken that.
Expanding fleet. Focusing on U.S. market, which makes up half
its long-haul business. Signed marketing pact with USAir.
                                                                                                       

   Revenue passenger kilometers: 22.8 bill.
   Rank: 19
   Passengers: 18.2 million.
   ---
   BRITISH AIRWAYS
                                                                                                       

   World's largest international carrier and Europe's
largest, most profitable. Reported profit of #185 million in
first half ended Sept. 30. Fully privatized in 1987. Faces
stiff North Atlantic challenge from U.S. giants. Marketing
pact with United in disarray; British Airways desperately
needs replacement U.S. partner. Considering linkup with
Northwest and KLM Royal Dutch. Still irked by U.K. decision
to open London's Heathrow Airport. Expanding fleet in #5.1
billion program.
                                                                                                       

   Revenue passenger kilometers: 65.9 bill.
   Rank 6
   Passengers: 25.2 million.
   ---
   IBERIA
                                                                                                       

   A money loser; an estimated 45 billion pesetas in 1991.
Spain's flag carrier. Asked state for aid. Service poor.
Delays have sparked passenger sit-ins. One big advantage:
extensive Latin American network, with hubs in Buenos Aires
and Santo Domingo. Plans one in Miami. Buying up shares of
Latin American carriers. Domestic market growing fast.
Spending $5 billion on new aircraft.
                                                                                                       

   Revenue passenger kilometers: 22.1 bill.
   Rank: 20
   Passengers: 16.2 million
   ---
   KLM ROYAL DUTCH AIRLINES
                                                                                                       

   International passengers, mostly long-haul, make up more
than 99% of total. Seeks to expand through alliances;
holdings in Northwest, Transavia of the Netherlands, Air
Littoral of France, Air U.K. and ALM Antillean Airlines.
Talking about partnership with British Airways and increasing
link with Northwest. Dutch state owns 38%. A surprising
profit of 192.5 million guilders in Sept. 30 quarter. Service
ususally rated among best in world.
                                                                                                       

   Revenue passenger kilometers: 26.7 bill.
   Rank: 16
   Passengers: 6.9 million
   ---
   LUFTHANSA GERMAN AIRLINES

   Operations reorganized. Search for allies has led to pacts
with Finnair and Japan Airlines. Talking to USAir and
undisclosed South American carrier. With German unification,
has Europe's largest home market. Bought Pan Am's internal
German routes, reached pact with Air France to operate French
carrier's German routes. Faces tough overseas competition,
especially in Frankfurt. Calling for new U.S.-German
bilateral pact Expects to report 1991 operating loss despite
operating profits in last three quarters.
                                                                                                       

   Revenue passenger kilometers: 41.5 bill.
   Rank: 11
   Passengers: 22.4 million
   ---
   SCANDINAVIAN AIRLINES SYSTEM
                                                                                                       

   Retreating from expansion efforts. Wrote off investment in
Continental, trying to sell Inter-Continental Hotels Stake.
Posted 514 million kronor net loss for 1991 first half.
Restructuring. High fares, absence of big railroad rival
makes domestic market -- Sweden, Denmark and Norway --
attractive to newcomers. High hopes for partnership with
Swissair and Austrian Airlines -- the European Quality
Alliance. Coordinated service and purchasing may save each
partner $100 million a year; potential for six European hubs.
                                                                                                       

   Revenue passenger kilometers: 16.6 bill.
   Rank: 25
   Passengers: 14.9 million
   ---
   SWISSAIR
                                                                                                       

   Slashing 300 million Swiss francs from spending through
management cuts, cost-of-living reductions. Poor
profitability: Expects 1992 to be "very unsatisfactory."
ooking for turnaround in 1993. High-quality reputation
considered major asset. Also counting heavily on European
Quality Alliance. Three-way partnership with Delta and
Singapore Airlines hurt by Delta's purchase of Pan Am's
Frankfurt hub.
                                                                                                       

   Revenue passenger kilometers: 15.84 bill.
   Rank: 28
   Passengers: 7.8 million
   ---
                           ASIA
                                                                                                       

   ALL NIPPON AIRLINES
                                                                                                       

   Since 1986, well-managed ANA has gone from operating only
domestically -- it still carries half of Japan's internal
traffic -- to flying to 20 cities abroad. ANA's domestic
rival: Japan Air System. Its biggest problem: keeping up with
double-digit growth. Operates joint services with other
carriers to add overseas routes where it lacks crew and
planes. Other problems: High costs and tight airport capacity
in Japan. In first half ended Sept. 30, net income fell 3.8%
to 11.91 billion yen.
                                                                                                       

   Revenue passenger kilometers: 33.1 bill.
   Rank: 13
   Passengers: 33.1 million
   ---
   CATHAY PACIFIC AIRWAYS
                                                                                                       

   Hong Kong's de facto flag carrier. Known for good service
and high profits. Conservative: slow to innovate, start new
routes or buy planes. Faces high costs and tight local labor
market. Future also clouded by prospect of Hong Kong's
reversion to Chinese rule in 1997. But its 12.5% ownership by
Chinese government's primary investment vehicle should help
politically. In first half ended June 30, profit fell 22% to
HK$1.11 billion; revenue rose 5.1% to HK$9.84 billion.
                                                                                                       

   Revenue passenger kilometers: 23.6 bill.
   Rank: 18
   Passengers (in 1990): 7.5 million
   ---
   JAPAN AIRLINES
                                                                                                       

   Japan's leading international airline; serves 63 overseas
cities. Since privatization in 1987, working at shedding
bureaucratic ways. World's No. 3 cargo carrier. Expanding
fleet to grab wave of Japanese outbound trafic. Costs still
high. Other problems: Japanese airport congestion and pilot
shortage. In first half ended Sept. 30, JAL's profit slid 91%
to 2.66 billion yen on revenue of 576.39 billion yen.
                                                                                                       

   Revenue passenger kilometers: 55.3 bill.
   Rank: 10
   Passengers: 23.4 million
   ---
   KOREAN AIR
                                                                                                       

   Owned by private conglomerate. Has shed bad image
acquaired when one of its planes was shot down by a Soviet
fighter in 1983. Biggest problem now: new competition.
Northwest, United and Delta have increased services to Seoul;
several other foreign lines have entered market. Asiana
Airlines, Korea's second carrier, competing directly on Asian
and U.S. routes. But KAL excels at stealing traffic from
Japan to top up its loads to long-haul destinations.
                                                                                                       

   Revenue passenger kilometers: 195.3 bill.
   Rank: 23
   Passengers: 12.3 million
   ---
   QANTAS AIRWAYS
                                                                                                       

   Restricted to international routes, leaving it reliant on
domestic carriers for its feed. Hurt by Australia's enduring
recession, a pilots' strike in 1989 and disappointing tourism
growth. Has huge debt and faces big fleet-renewal bills.
State-owned; government wants to sell 49% of the carrier
later this year, but few takers expected. To make it more
attractive, 18% of work force laid off last year.
                                                                                                       

   Revenue passenger kilometers: 27.8 bill.
   Rank: 15
   Passengers: 4.2 million
   ---
   SINGAPORE AIRLINES
                                                                                                       

   Asia's trendsetter. Is profitable, dynamic and
imaginative. With sky phones, young fleet and emotive
advertising, succeeds despite tiny home market. Links with
Delta and Swissair may yield fruit eventually. But costs are
rising, local labor market is tight. Net income in first half
ended Sept. 30 fell 0.5% to S$530.1 million. Has expressed
interest in buying a piece of Qantas.
                                                                                                       

   Revenue passenger kilometers: 31.5 bill.
   Rank: 14
   Passengers: 7.0 million
   ---
   THAI AIRWAYS INTERNATIONAL
                                                                                                       

   State-owned. Profitable for 27 consecutive years; posted
pretax profit of 5.1 billion baht for year ended last Sept.
30, down 25% from a year earlier. Postponed public share
offering, blaming bearish global-market outlook. Real reason,
insiders say: power struggle between management and central
government. Despite good reputation, had trouble with booming
growth. Hurt by low domestic fares and slump in tourism.
                                                                                                       

   Revenue passenger kilometers: 19.9 bill.
   Rank: 22
   Passengers: 8.3 million
   ---
                           MIDDLE EAST
                                                                                                       

   SAUDI ARABIAN AIRLINES
                                                                                                       

   Middle East's largest airline. Government-owned, with
monopoly in Saudi Arabia. Flies to 64 cities in 32 countries,
but focuses on Middle-East-Far East travel. Content to stay a
regional player, it's trying to put more of its reservation
systems in Mideast travel agencies.
                                                                                                       

   Revenue passenger kilometers: 16.1 bill.
   Rank: 27
   Passengers: 10.3 million
   ---
   NOTE: A revenue passenger kilometer equals one paying
passenger carried one kilometer.
                                                                                                       

   Compiled by Brett Pulley and Asra Q. Nomani in Chicago,
Bridget O'Brian in Houston, G. Pierre Goad in Montreal, Susan
Carey in Hong Kong and Brian Coleman in Brussels.