LAB NOTES
   ----
   By Michael Waldholz
SCIENTISTS seek a "universal" flu shot to counter the
year-to-year variation of the flu virus.
   Different strains of the influenza virus circle the globe
each year, causing illness for millions of people world-wide
and about 10,000 deaths in the U.S. To keep a step ahead of
the disease, scientists try every January to predict which
strains will cause the next winter's flu. Vaccine makers then
rush to culture the strains and package "killed" versions of
the virus into protective vaccines.
   But wrong or delayed forecasts have led to vaccine
shortages. Even vaccines containing the right strains of
killed virus don't always afford protection, especially for
the elderly who are particularly susceptible to flu.
   The flu's capricious nature results from changes in the
makeup of its outer coat that allow the virus to evade
detection from antibodies triggered by previous years'
strains. Researchers at SmithKline Beecham's U.S. labs hope
to pierce the flu bug's yearly disguise by immunizing people
with a constantly present bit of protein that was discovered
under the viral coat. In lab mice, the protein triggered a
response from white blood cells that neutralized a wide
variety of flu strains.
   Recently, doctors at Johns Hopkins School of Medicine
reported the first human tests of an experimental version of
the vaccine using protein extracted from beneath the outer
coat of a 1938 flu virus. Fifteen test subjects were exposed
to a virus from 1984, and about half produced neutralizing
white cells and had significantly reduced flu symptoms.
   "It's a very promising effort," says Louis Fries, who
conducted the test. He says the strategy may lead to vaccines
for malaria, AIDS, and other viruses with multiple strains.
                                                                                                       

   Promising Advance Made
   On Diseases of Retina
                                                                                                       

   RESEARCHERS believe they have made a preliminary but
compelling advance in treating diseases of the retina, which
have blinded about 500,000 Americans.
   The retina is a layer of cells at the rear of the eye that
transmits light images to the brain via the optic nerve.
Though doctors can treat some impaired vision by replacing
damaged corneas and eye lenses, there currently is no way to
repair diseased retinas.
   In the past few years, several researchers, including
Manuel del Cerro, a neurobiologist at the University of
Rochester School of Medicine, have reported a promising
advance in which they grafted retina cells removed from fetal
rodents into the eyes of blinded lab rats. The cells formed
viable connections with existing eye tissue. But the
scientists were stumped as to how to prove the transplanted
cells worked.
   In a new set of experiments, Dr. del Cerro and his
colleague, James Ison, a psychologist, say they now have
evidence that the new tissue can restore partial vision to
the rats. They found that sighted rats placed in a dark room
aren't startled by a sudden noise that is immediately
preceded by a flash of light. Blinded rats jumped at the
noise because they couldn't see the light. In a new study,
the researchers found that blinded rats with transplanted
cells were spooked much less often than similar rats without
new retina cells, suggesting a return of about 20% of vision.
   Dr. del Cerro says he believes technical improvements will
increase the modest vision now being restored. Moreover, he
hopes to expand studies to monkeys and then humans, perhaps
using fetal cells from monkeys.
                                                                                                       

   Infants May Imbibe Lead
   From Water in Formula
                                                                                                       

   PARENTS may be inadvertently giving their infants
dangerously high doses of lead, two pediatricians warn.
   Michael Shannon and John Graef, two experts in pediatric
lead exposure at Children's Hospital in Boston, say that
during state-mandated screenings they recently were surprised
to find 10 infants "poisoned" with high levels of lead in
their blood. An investigation found that seven of the infants
were exposed to lead from household water added to powdered
infant formula.
   "It made us think the problem might be more common than we
suspected," said Dr. Graef, head of the hospital's lead and
toxicology clinic.
   The lead, it turns out, came from the first water out of a
tap in the morning, which apparently has higher-than-normal
lead concentrations. Such lead levels can be dangerously high
for infants even when household water supplies meet
environmental standards. The doctors said additional lead
entered the formula of some infants from "excessive" boiling
of water in lead-containing pots.
   In a letter to the New England Journal of Medicine, the
doctors said a survey of 121 families who came to the
hospital found that 43 of them prepared powdered formula by
boiling early-morning water. The doctors suggest parents run
water for two minutes before using it and eliminate boiling,
an unnecessary bit of sterilization for most home water.
                                                                                                       

   Odds and Ends
                                                                                                       

   SCIENTISTS at the University of Buffalo have designed a
pill that can carry a drug intact through the gut, thus
packaging medicine such as insulin that must be injected
because it degrades before reaching the bloodstream. The pill
is armed with a tiny radio transmitter that helps track its
passage into the intestines and can receive a radio message
that triggers the drug release at the right moment. . . .
Poor children are nearly three times as likely to be
overweight as children of middle-class or affluent families,
according to a federal survey of almost 7,000 children
published in a journal by Meharry Medical College in
Nashville, Tenn.