Olympia  York Cash Woes Spur Shift
   In Debt Strategy, Continued Asset Sales
   ----
   By Neil Barsky and Larry M. Greenberg
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
The closely held Canadian company, based in Toronto,
categorically denied market rumors that it was facing
imminent collapse and said it has not defaulted on any of its
debt. Olympia  York's woes stem mainly from a
multibillion-dollar stake in developing London's Canary Wharf
office complex, which has yet to pay off. Its other real
estate and its energy and newsprint businesses are also in
serious slumps.
   "The rumor that we will file bankruptcy is absolutely
without foundation," said a spokesman for the company.
"Olympia  York is current on all its obligations and expects
to remain so."
   This is not the first time rumors about Olympia  York
have affected the financial markets. Last year, a false
report in the Chicago commodities pits that the company had
defaulted on a loan to Citicorp affected stock-market
trading.
   As if to underscore Olympia  York's ability to raise
money, GW Utilities Ltd., 89% owned by Olympia, said
yesterday it has agreed to sell its 63.5% stake in
Interprovincial Pipe Line Inc. to the public for C$26
(US$21.82) a share, or C$625 million.
   GW said it planned to pay a C$4.50-a-share dividend upon
completion of the offering. Such a payout would put about
C$158 million into Olympia  York's coffers.
   The rumors of trouble first cropped up in the Toronto
commercial paper markets earlier this week, after the company
waited until the end of the day to redeem $40 million of
commercial paper. An article in the Toronto Globe  Mail
yesterday further fueled speculation that the company was
experiencing cash-flow problems.
   Olympia  York also said it planned to retire two of its
three commercial paper programs. One program, which carried a
maximum C$500 million, will be phased out by next week. A
second issue, secured by Olympia  York Exchange Tower in
Toronto recently had its rating confirmed by Toronto's
Dominion Bond Rating Service Ltd., and will continue.
   Olympia  York said the Olympia  York Commercial Paper II
Inc., which has C$280 million outstanding, will be fully
retired within 90 days. That issue was recently downgraded by
Dominion Bond Rating Service Ltd.
   It is not clear whether proceeds from the dividend on the
Interprovincial Pipeline sale will be used to retire the
company's commercial paper.
   Any serious trouble at Olympia  York would have a broad
impact throughout the financial world. Including the public
companies it controls, Olympia  York is believed to have
about $20 billion in debt, which is held by a wide range of
North American, European and Asian banks.
   In Canada, its banks include Bank of Montreal, Toronto
Dominion Bank and Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce. In New
York, its banks include Citicorp, Chemical Bank and J.P.
Morgan.
   In late trading yesterday on the New York Stock Exchange,
Citicorp stock was quoted at $16.50 a share, down 37.5 cents;
Chemical Banking New York Corp. at $31.50 a share, down
$1.125; and J.P. Morgan  Co. at $59, down $1.
   Olympia  York has been one of the sturdiest real estate
companies in the world, and a meltdown of its corporate core
would raise the question of whether many real estate
companies can survive the global real estate slump.
   Real estate is far from the company's only business, and
far from its only problem. The two other industries the
company is concentrated in, energy and newsprint, are also in
protracted slumps. Over the past two years, the company has
raised over C$2 billion in asset sales through these and
other companies. The proceeds from those sales are believed
to have been spent on its massive Canary Wharf project in the
London docklands and to retire debt.
   Canary Wharf is seen as the company's make-or-break
endeavor. Planned in the late 1980s, when London's real
estate market was booming, the project has been hampered by
poor transit links to the London's financial district, and
overbuilding throughout the city.
   So far, Olympia  York has invested over $3.3 billion of
its own money in the project. A person familiar with the
transaction said Olympia  York is close to completing the
terms of a loan of over $200 million to complete Canary
Wharf's first phase.
   In New York City, the value of Olympia  York's holdings
has dropped along with the rest of the plunging market.
Recently, people familiar with the situation said, a bank
group extended the terms of a mortgage the company holds on a
vacant Park Avenue office building. A company spokesman said
Olympia  York is in negotiations with a tenant to occupy the
entire building.
   In London yesterday, an Olympia  York loan was trading in
the secondary market at 78 cents on the dollar, for a yield
of 16%, compared with a quote between 80 and 85 cents on the
dollar last week. The yield is considered high for that type
of loan, which is secured by collateral in Gulf Canada
Resources Ltd. and AbitibiPrice Inc., two Canadian companies
controlled by Olympia  York.
   "Without that credit enhancement, it would be trading much
lower," said A. Gary Klesch, chairman of Klesch  Co., which
makes a market in distressed securities.
   ---
   Craig Torres contributed to this article.