Commodities:
   Gold Futures Prices Tumble in Major Sell-Off
   After Failing to Build on Wednesday's Rally
   ----
   By Anita Raghavan
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Yesterday's report on February retail sales augured well
for platinum and silver since they are widely used in
industry, but the decline in gold took its toll on these
metals as well, analysts said. Platinum futures for April
delivery slid $3.30 an ounce to $360.10 and the actively
traded May silver futures contract ended at $4.113 an ounce,
6.2 cents lower. Silver for March delivery finished at
$4.086, down 6.1 cents.
   George Milling-Stanley, a precious metals analyst at
Lehman Brothers, said selling by Mideast investors overnight
took gold futures lower initially. In addition, he said
certain "local" traders were also selling futures in an
effort to trigger additional sales by trend-following
commodity funds.
   Many futures traders and fund managers who follow price
trends will set a price, known as a "sell stop," at which
they will sell their holdings in a given futures contract.
The sell stops for many of the commodity funds were believed
to be around $348.30 in April gold.
   Stephen Platt, a vice president at Dean Witter Reynolds in
Chicago, said many traders were discouraged when gold failed
to build on Wednesday's rally. "The fact that we could not
follow through on {Wednesday's} gains appeared to touch off
some long liquidations," said Mr. Platt.
   Many precious metals analysts are skeptical about the
short-term outlook for gold.
   Leanne Baker, an analyst at Salomon Brothers, said the
market now is biased toward further declines. As gold prices
have fallen, open interest, or the number of gold futures
contracts outstanding, has increased, suggesting that there
may be a buildup of short positions, or bets that prices will
decline, Ms. Baker noted.
   In other commodity markets yesterday:
                                                                                                       

   GRAINS AND SOYBEANS: Prices of corn, wheat and soybean
futures contracts slipped on a lack of new developments. Some
traders are waiting to see whether commodity fund managers
decide to use this latest price decline to buy more
contracts, or whether they begin to unload their positions.
Corn prices might be particularly vulnerable to a decline
because prices have recently hit levels high enough to fan
planting intentions by farmers. As March progresses, traders
will increasingly focus on two Agriculture Department reports
that are slated for release at the end of the month. One is a
quarterly survey of U.S. crop stockpiles and the other is a
report on the amount of land that corn and soybean farmers
might plant this spring.
                                                                                                       

   COFFEE: Futures prices continued to build on Wednesday's
gains. Coffee for March delivery ended 0.35 cent higher at
72.6 cents a pound. The actively traded May contract gained
0.5 cent to 73 cents. Euphoria over the Brazilian Federation
of Coffee Exporters' decision to consider quotas and other
ways to raise world coffee prices helped lift coffee futures.
But Melissa Trout, a tropical commodities analyst at Cargill
Investor Services, said a U.S. Department of Agriculture
report late yesterday that raised the agency's estimate of
Brazil's coffee output in the 19921993 season may have a
damping effect on the market today. "This could temper some
of the euphoria" stemming from the Brazilian exporters' move
on quotas, Ms. Trout said.
                                                                                                       

   COCOA: Futures prices rebounded after an initial bout of
selling. The actively traded May contract finished at $1,063
a ton, up $9. At one point, the May contract touched a
life-of-contract low of $1,024. Meanwhile, cocoa for March
delivery ended $10 higher at $1,029 a ton. Analysts said that
cocoa has been under considerable pressure recently. Judith
Ganes, senior analyst at Merrill Lynch, said the fact that
cocoa hit a new low and then rebounded "may be a sign that we
are getting close to a bottom."