Bureaucrats, Don't Touch That Dial
   ----
   By Alfred C. Sikes
Two decades and more than a billion dollars later, the
Japanese are indeed the only country to have unveiled an
operating HDTV system. In November, with great fanfare, they
launched eight hours of daily HDTV programming. Yet every day
it's looking more like Japan bet the farm on the wrong TV
set. New digital technologies pioneered in the U.S. promise
capabilities far beyond the "better television" that upgraded
analog TV can deliver. You don't have to be a communications
engineer to understand what's at stake.
   Analog signals -- the technology that's been with us since
Alexander Graham Bell's telephone -- work by mimicking the
physical properties of an image or sound. Analog systems
require both the transmitter and the receiver to inflexibly
clone the original. Manipulating such signals for different
uses is difficult and expensive.
   Digital signals, by contrast, are the language of
computers -- a homogeneous, infinitely flexible, high-speed
set of instructions in 1s and 0s. In digital advanced
television (call it DATV), the creator's sound or image will
be converted to digits, sent along compressed transmission
paths, and then almost simultaneously stored, processed and
converted for presentation to the viewer. In this new digital
paradigm, a TV station sends not a picture, but information
about a picture -- assembled and controlled by the viewer's
set.
   This nimble processing capability, combined with the sheer
volume of information these new technologies can carry, will
bring tomorrow's DATV viewer freedoms barely fathomable
today. More channels are only the beginning. Imagine, for
example, a world where you could:
   -- Watch a baseball game from camera angles of your own
choosing -- even from the perspective of the baseball.
   -- Come home to a 10-minute "preview" tape produced by
your smart TV, which screened 5,000 hours of programming
while you were at work and picked out what you'd be
interested in.
   -- Read in the banner headline of your personalized
electronic newspaper that your flight to Chicago has been
delayed an hour and that it's raining there to boot.
   Our TVs will become computer-assisted information and
entertainment centers, able to tap and integrate media
sources we now think of as distinct.
   DATV should also let information move more easily between
systems operating under different technical standards in
different countries. Airing a sitcom produced in Hollywood in
one analog standard on a French TV set engineered for another
typically poses two problems: You tend to lose something in
the technical "translation," and it's not cheap to do. With
digital, however, it's possible to translate to different
levels of quality and other media formats through mere
software changes.
   Why, then, did Japan stick with an analog standard, and
why is Europe poised to follow? Industrial policy. Europe's
politicians, joined by industrialists unwilling to see beyond
their own sunk costs, decided to decree where video
technology and markets were going. Japan's shotgun wedding
with analog similarly gave her scientists little reason to
flirt with other technologies. In each case, policy makers
worried less about world-class products than about first
ensuring that their advanced TV standard was made at home.
   In the U.S., plenty of people called for a similar
approach. Industry groups and their political allies at one
point proposed a $1.5 billion project to rebuild the TV
manufacturing industry. Instead, the FCC launched an
international competition, announcing its intention to
replace America's current broadcast standard with the best
available. Some felt the best would almost certainly be
digital. Choosing one broadcast standard is important to
ensure interference protection among stations.
   The unfolding endgame thus proceeds according to the
modern Gresham's Law that bureaucrats defy at their peril: In
an age where information moves around the world
instantaneously, good products inevitably drive inferior ones
from the international marketplace. Consumers who learn of a
better mousetrap pursue it just as devotedly as Eastern
Europeans chased the freedom they saw on TV.
   Need proof? Ask the Japanese engineers who now whisper
about making the leap to digital even as their analog system
is unveiled. Or the European broadcast executives now balking
as yesterday's technology is forced down their throats.
Governments simply can't legislate outcomes in dynamic
markets. No matter how well-intentioned, it's folly to try.
   But let's go back for a minute to the FCC competition.
Digital systems proposals have been received from
Zenith-ATT, with support from Scientific-Atlanta Inc.;
General Instrument-MIT; and the Advanced Television Research
Consortium, comprising the David Sarnoff Research Center,
NBC, North American Philips, Thomson Consumer Electronics,
and Compression Labs Inc. They are now being tested by the
Advanced Television Test Center, an industry-led testing
laboratory. The test results along with those already
completed on less advanced systems will be presented to the
FCC this fall. A standard will be chosen in mid-1993.
   If the digital systems now being tested work, this should
help America lead the world toward an international DATV
approach that will spread immense new video capabilities
across the globe. Relying on the creative energy of markets
rather than the false prophecies of an
"industrial-bureaucratic complex" has let the American vision
of advanced television flourish while other approaches have
gone stale. When it comes to fast-moving industries, "don't
touch that dial" is the policy maker's best creed.
   ---
   Mr. Sikes is chairman of the Federal Communications
Commission.