Wednesday's Markets:
   Stocks Fall
   As Investors
   Await Data
   ---
   Traders Hope Report
   On Jobs Clarifies
   Future of Economy
   ----
   By Douglas R. Sease and Michael R. Sesit
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
Traders said stock and bond investors are nervous ahead of
Friday's release of the government's February employment
report. They hope it will help clarify recent conflicting
data on where the economy is headed.
   Trading in the stock and bond markets yesterday was
flighty, with prices rising and falling as rumors about the
employment report spread. One rumor was that February
non-farm payrolls would rise more than 100,000 and another
called for upward revisions in previous reports. Economic
data yesterday wasn't illuminating, with late February auto
sales sinking a bit from earlier levels and January factory
orders rising only 0.4%, less than expected.
   Currency traders were more confident that the U.S. economy
is recovering. The dollar continued a relentless advance
despite intervention by the central banks of Japan and Canada
to defend their currencies. The dollar's most recent climb
began Friday and has picked up momentum. Before profit-taking
set in yesterday, it was up almost 2.5% against the mark and
the yen in the last four trading days
   "The dollar is being driven higher by indicators of a
realistic chance of a U.S. recovery against a backdrop of
clearly weakening foreign economies," said William Arnold,
chief dealer at Chemical Bank. Traders are expecting Friday's
employment data to confirm the potential recovery.
   "If, in fact, we are pulling out of recession and going
into recovery, which I believe we are, then the dollar should
be above 1.70 marks" and stabilize above 132 yen, said Mr.
Arnold. A positive sign for the U.S. currency's expectations,
he added, is that "a significant amount of dollar purchases
have been for medium or longer term investment purposes.
Those are dollars that are taken out of the market that don't
return for a small profit."
   In major market action:
                                                                                                       

   Stock prices dropped. Volume totaled 206.8 million shares
on the New York Stock Exchange, where 1,065 issues fell and
613 rose.
                                                                                                       

   Bond prices edged up. The Treasury's benchmark 30-year
bond gained an eighth of a point, or $1.25 for each $1,000
face amount. The yield on the issue slipped to 7.91%.
                                                                                                       

   The dollar strengthened. In late New York trading the
currency was quoted at 1.6680 marks and 131.68 yen compared
with 1.6570 marks and 131.07 yen Tuesday.