LEISURE  ARTS -- Bookshelf:
   Murder and the Pursuit of Happiness
   ----
   By Julie Salamon
From the moment Jessel receives the assignment he feels
uneasy. He knows right away this will not be his usual
dispassionate research culminating in a routine summary of
his findings. Summerchild wasn't a stranger to Jessel; he was
the father of Jessel's girlfriend, back when they were
teenagers. She had pretty much disappeared after her father's
death and now, 15 years later, Jessel is going to be reunited
with her memory, at least, in this strange way. Stranger
still, he realizes that he has somehow become eerily like her
father -- following his footsteps into the civil service and
now, at 39, almost the age that Summerchild was when he died.
   But these coincidences only signal just how convoluted and
emotionally entangling Jessel's inquiry will become. He
discovers Summerchild's secret project through hidden files
whose contents will come to mesmerize and then terrify him.
It turns out that Summerchild was indeed carrying out a
classified mission. He had been placed in a special "strategy
unit" with someone from outside the civil service. After
Summerchild's death, his collaborator disappeared, the files
were closed and dispatched to the nether regions of the
ministry to remain forever unopened.
   Jessel could have handled almost anything but what he
finds there. Summerchild wasn't, as suspected, engaged in
counterrevolutionary or any other traditionally subversive
activity. He and his colleague, a philosophy professor, had
been assigned to something far more terrifying to Jessel and
to his universe built on order, emotional and otherwise.
Summerchild and his colleague had been licensed by the
government to follow an insane pursuit (in Jessel's view): to
study the nature of happiness.
   So the mystery of Summerchild becomes a meditation on the
mystery of life -- and a romance (the philosophy professor is
a woman) -- conceived as a civil service comedy. The fact
that this bizarre conceit almost immediately takes on a
compelling logic is testimony to the nimbleness of the
author's prose as well as his imagination. Mr. Frayn, a
playwright ("Noises Off"), novelist and author of a volume of
philosophy, explores the nature of human longing with a
striking sense of the absurd but without malice. He has a
keen eye for the way people live and a keen understanding of
how appearances are so often unconnected to feelings and
needs. The humor only accentuates the poignancy of the
yearning that lies at the core of his story.
   Mr. Frayn introduces Jessel to Summerchild and Dr.
Serafin, the philosophy professor, through the reports they
dutifully wrote up for their superiors. At first, Summerchild
writes in the dead prose of a bureaucrat. It's the only way
he can face this loaded subject -- the nature of happiness]
   Serafin, on the other hand, plunges ahead, writing her
report directly to the prime minister in an easy,
conversational style, casually mixing detail of her home life
with the subject at hand. Summerchild is shocked at first,
then enchanted as this tetchy, vibrant philosophy professor
forces him to think about life in ways that had never
occurred to him.
   Jessel follows the progress of their relationship (it soon
becomes obvious that their collaboration closely resembles
love) with the relentless thoroughness of a detective. First
he finds their written files, then transcripts of the tapes
they began relying on when they decided the written reports
missed the nuance of their conversation. He imagines the
dismay of the secretary whose job it was to type the
transcripts, then finally "meets" his characters when he
discovers tapes that hadn't been transcribed and listens to
their sweet, sad human voices. In the end, Mr. Frayn has
constructed the perfect tale for people who love books, as
Jessel discovers his own desires and fears -- and where they
collide -- through the story of Serafin and Summerchild.