Dry Spell: Drinking
   Is Out on Campuses,
   Under Legal Duress
   ---
   Schools Failing to Curb Abuse
   Face a Possible Shut-Off
   Of the Federal Money Tap
   ----
   By Michael Selz
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
He might not recognize old Husson today. Forces have
converged to dry the place out.
   The dormitory director shut down last year's party an hour
or so after it began because kids were drinking in the
hallways, in violation of the rules. Rob Kurtz, a Husson
senior and a fraternity brother of Mr. Nelson in Kappa Delta
Phi, says, "There's no drinking allowed in the frat lounge or
at the Arrowhead," a bar in the basement of Mr. Nelson's old
dorm that now serves only soft drinks.
   Nowadays, says Mr. Kurtz, "A lot of kids sit around and
watch TV on Saturday nights. Some people are actually
studying. It's getting really boring."
   The party's over (at least under attack) at many colleges
and universities, and federal money is one of the reasons
temperance is finally getting the upper hand. Husson is a
private, nonsectarian school, which like most schools
benefits from federal student-loan money.
   The federal Drug-Free Schools and Campuses Act, which took
effect last year, orders the nation's 10,000 institutions of
higher learning to adopt drug and alcohol policies
discouraging abuse. Schools that don't comply risk losing
federal funds, but nobody has been cut off yet.
   Because of the threat, "university officials can no longer
afford to look the other way" about underage drinking, says
Patricia Terrell, dean of students at Southern Methodist
University in Dallas. The sobermindedness is buttressed, of
course, by other concerns -- about highway deaths, about
alcoholism, about the health effects of drinking too much,
about liability suits and campus insurance premiums. Drinking
has lost some of its cachet in society, with wine and spirit
sales down about 15% in the past five years.
   The party scene is definitely fizzling. The University of
Maryland at College Park permits fraternities and sororities
to have weekday beer parties only on Thursdays, traditionally
a big party night, and then only if the Greeks keep up their
grade-point averages.
   California State University at Chico, which Playboy
magazine in 1987 called the nation's No. 1 party school, has
Thursday parties, too, and anybody can throw one. But, to
discourage the practice ever so indirectly, the school
suggests professors schedule important classes, quizzes and
exams the morning after.
   Colleges are trying all kinds of gimmicks to keep students
in line. Connecticut College in New London used to serve beer
Freshmen Week. Now it offers students nonalcoholic games
instead. A relay race called Izzy Dizzy has participants
sprint 50 yards, press their foreheads to an upright baseball
bat, circle around it 10 times and run back to their starting
position. By then, they might as well be drunk.
   "It is a mood-changing, perception-altering game that
really gets people laughing," claims David Brailey, the
college's health educator.
   Fraternities at the University of Arizona in Tucson throw
so-called "Westerners" in the desert with the
administration's blessing. But party-goers must ride to and
from the affairs in a rented bus. If they want to drink, they
must wear something similar to a medical wristband to prove
they are 21.
   "When I was in high school, I couldn't wait to get into
college and go to fraternity parties," says Mark Drady, an
Arizona senior who joined Alpha Epsilon Pi when he
transferred to the school his junior year. "But it's not like
it used to be. They're too regulated and dull. That's why I'm
not in a frat anymore. I dropped out three days before my
21st birthday and started hitting the bars."
   Because of such unregenerate characters as Mr. Drady, the
campus crackdown hasn't necessarily curtailed student
drinking, just made it less convenient.
   "Parties have moved to off-campus housing and bars
downtown where underage students might be served," says
Sheldon Steinbach, general counsel for the American Council
on Education, which represents 1,600 schools. That's not
necessarily progress, since driving is more likely to be
involved in off-campus binges. "It has turned a health
problem into a safety problem as kids are now behind the
wheel."
   But cracking down on drinking would seem to serve a
desperate need, assuming it works. "All you have to do is
speak to any student on any college campus anywhere in the
U.S., and they will tell you there are intolerably high rates
of drug and alcohol use," says Bill Modzeleski, director of
drug planning and outreach at the Department of Education.
"Yet people still think it is a rite of passage or a right
inherent to an college education."
   Indeed, partying that got out of hand has had serious
consequences. At last year's St. Patrick's Day party at the
University of Missouri's Rolla campus, a student died after a
beer and tequila drinking ritual. Drinking at the event has
been banned.
   After revelers threw eggs during a Homecoming parade last
October, the University of Denver barred, at least until
spring, all fraternity and sorority parties. "That's changed
the party scene a lot," says sophomore Angela Brammell. The
action has moved off campus, she says.
   Now the drinking scene on various campuses might surprise
even fairly recent grads. And to some faculty people, it has
a definite down side. When Donna Cooper lived in Carmichael
Hall at Tufts University in Medford, Mass., in 1981,
residents called a part of the basement the "Ozone." (All the
room numbers started with a zero.) "It was a nonstop party
place," Ms. Cooper says. Nobody lives in the basement
anymore, and nothing has taken its place.
   Smith Kirkpatrick, who has taught creative writing at the
University of Florida since 1957, used to take students to
local pubs after school. "I used to consider adjourning to
the back room of a bar a continuation of the class," he says.
But given new attitudes about underage drinking, "You can't
do that anymore," Mr. Kirkpatrick says, adding that students
may lose out on something as a result. At his after-class
gatherings, "You didn't have the formality of a classroom,
and people asked questions they normally wouldn't ask.
Learning took place."
   For many alumni, the decline of campus party life brings
pangs of nostalgia. On a recent visit to the University of
Illinois campus in Champagne, Vincent Moyer, class of 1984,
decided to drive by O'Malleys. He remembered the bar as a
place where students chugged 25-cent drafts and "drank the
wall" -- a feat involving the consumption of 10 different
listed drinks. Those who succeeded (survived might be a
better word) won a T-shirt. Back then, he says, the place was
so packed, customers spilled out into the street. But
O'Malleys says the crackdown on drinking has tamed the place
some.
   The Thursday night of his return, as Mr. Moyer pulled his
car up in front of O'Malleys, he knew right away that
something had happened. "There wasn't anybody going in or
out," he says. "It was absolutely dead."