Commodities:
   World Oil Prices Finish Mixed, With Markets
   Haunted by Prospect of Renewed Iraqi Exports
   ----
   By James Tanner
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
In U.S. futures trading, crude oil for February delivery
was down one cent to $17.86 a barrel. But the March crude was
up three cents, and outer month contracts were higher. Also,
both February and March heating oil futures rose around
onehalf cent a gallon in heavy trading on the New York
Mercantile Exchange.
   In European markets, spot and futures prices of crude oil
and gas oil, Europe's version of heating oil, generally were
lower. Prices had been dropping sharply until it became clear
yesterday that Iraq and the U.N. weren't close to any sort of
agreement that would allow Iraqi oil exports to be resumed.
   Iraqi oil has been banned from world markets by the U.N.
since August 1990, when Iraq invaded Kuwait. The Vienna
meeting was to discuss a U.N. proposal that would allow an
emergency sale of $1.6 billion in Iraqi oil, which Iraq so
far has rejected. Late yesterday, the participants made clear
that there wasn't going to be any quick resolution.
Discussions may continue today.
   "We haven't finalized anything," Abdul Amir Al-Anbari,
Iraq's ambassador to the U.N. and head of the Iraqi team at
the Vienna talks, told reporters after yesterday's session
ended, according to Dow Jones International Petroleum Report.
And Kofi Annan, the U.N. assistant secretary-general, said
more rounds of talks are necessary.
   Most analysts weren't surprised at the apparent lack of
results in Vienna. "Neither Iraq nor the U.N. views this as a
negotiation," said Antonio M. Szabo, president of Bonner 
Moore Management Science, Houston. "Iraqi oil is not going to
come out for many, many weeks -- possibly many, many months
-- and the crude market is going to bounce back."
   Still, the possibility that Iraq suddenly will elect to
begin selling some of its oil, under whatever restrictions
the U.N. may set, hangs over the market, said Peter Beutel,
director of the energy group at Pegasus Econometric, Hoboken,
N.J. "As long as the Iraqis remain out of the market, there
is the fear they will decide to sell their oil," he said. "At
this stage, the Iraqi factor is bearish if they do {sell oil}
and bearish if they don't," he said.
   In other commodity markets yesterday:
                                                                                                       

   PRECIOUS METALS: Gold, silver, and platinum prices staged
a surprise rally. Gold for February delivery advanced $6 an
ounce to $357.50. March silver jumped 18.3 cents an ounce to
$4.153. The April platinum contract rose $2.50 an ounce to
$340. Ian MacDonald, vice president of precious metals at
Credit Suisse, attributed the rise primarily to
short-covering. Traders cover their short positions, or bets
the price will fall, by buying offsetting contracts. Traders
had been very pessimistic about gold's prospects, he said,
noting that many had expected prices to fall into the $320s.
But when gold dipped below $350 earlier in the week, buying
emerged from Middle Eastern and Asian investors, he said,
which sparked yesterday's rush of short covering. Some new
investment demand further fueled the rise, he said. William
O'Neill, senior futures strategist at Merrill Lynch, tied the
initial rise in gold and silver to the chaotic trading in
currencies yesterday. Although the dollar was strong, which
usually discourages precious metals buying, the extreme
volatility caused some traders to seek out the stability of
precious metals, he said. Also, talk of possible interest
rate cuts in Europe, which might cause inflation to rise,
helped bolster precious metals, he noted. Investors often buy
precious metals as a hedge against inflation. Follow-through
buying may push the precious metals higher in the short-term,
Mr. O'Neill said, but added that yesterday's rise didn't
portend a major rally. Mr. MacDonald said he expects prices
to stabilize for a while, adding that it will take an
improvement in the economy to spur prices significantly
higher. But according to technical trends, said Dinsa Mehta,
chief bullion trader at Chase Manhattan Bank, gold could rise
to $370 or above.
                                                                                                       

   LIVESTOCK AND MEATS: Cattle futures prices rose on
improved consumer demand for beef, coupled with feed-lot
conditions that are inhibiting growth of cattle. Charles
Levitt, livestock analyst for Shearson Lehman Brothers in
Chicago, said retailers are featuring more beef products as
they traditionally do after December holidays, jump-starting
demand for beef. In addition, heavy rains over the plains and
Midwest have created extremely muddy conditions in many
cattle feed lots, where cattle are fattened for slaughter.
This stunts the steers' growth, diminishing the supply of
beef available to fulfill rejuvenated retail demand. At the
Chicago Mercantile Exchange, the price of the cattle contract
for February delivery settled up 0.72 cents at 74.1 cents a
pound.
                                                                                                       

   COTTON: Prices slid again. Cotton for March delivery
traded as low as 57.56 cents a pound, a new life-of-contract
low, before ending at 57.73 cents, down 1.71 cents. Ernest
Simon, cotton specialist at Prudential Securities, said
prices tumbled on a number of rumors and assumptions. Rumors
had circulated during the day of heavy export sales
cancellations by China and other countries, he said, but the
government's export sales report released after the market
closed showed "hardly any cancellations." Unfortunately, the
report also showed "hardly any sales," for the week ended
Jan. 2, he said. Uncompetitive prices of U.S. cotton are
largely to blame for the recent slow pace of export sales, he
said, which had led traders to assume the Agriculture
Department would lower the adjusted world price of U.S.
cotton, perhaps as low as 42.64 cents a pound, after the
market's close. But the adjusted world price was maintained
at 44.07 cents.