International:
   Communist Youth League Cranks Out
   Some of Russia's Savvier Entrepreneurs
   ----
   By Neela Banerjee
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The Komsomol is officially gone now, as is the Soviet
Union, but it has left a legacy to Russian business. Thanks
to the Komsomol business plan, yesterday's young apparatchiks
are today's capitalists. Mr. Sedlenek, now 28 years old, runs
an employment agency, and other former Komsomol officials
operate private banks, conglomerates and commodities
exchanges.
   "My Komsomol connections helped me 100%," Mr. Sedlenek
says. "I know people in business, in all levels of the
government, all over. Someone starting in business today
probably wouldn't have such connections, but you need them to
do business in our country."
   The Komsomol and the Communist Party used to be the ticket
to power. As the party's youth arm, the Komsomol monopolized
adolescence with ideology sessions and peace rallies. Nearly
everyone joined the Komsomol, but the especially driven went
on to enter the Komsomol bureaucracy and the party. Most of
today's radical reformers came out of the Komsomol structure.
   "There was no real difference between the party and the
Komsomol," Mr. Sedlenek says. "The party was just older and
supported by the Komsomol. The two together ran the country."
   Komsomol's business network has fueled concern that those
who were in power before, and ruined the country, are now
influential in Russia's fledgling private sector.
   "It's true that we still have some `old weight' from the
old system," says Sergei Potapenko, a former Komsomol
secretary and director of the Union of Young Entrepreneurs.
"But we still only have the same people who lived in this
country as 10 years ago. It isn't like entrepreneurs were
hiding in cellars all this time, waiting to come out."
   Others worry that Komsomol members have an advantage
because they used party money to start up their businesses.
Finist Bank, for instance, was founded with 700 million
rubles of Komsomol funds, according to Mr. Potapenko. Mr.
Sedlenek and his partners received 20,000 rubles to start
their employment agency.
   But even more important than money, the Komsomol
enterprises were allowed to work unhindered and were given
special privileges: They didn't have to pay taxes for three
to four years, enabling many to use huge profits to diversify
their holdings.
   The Menatep Financial Conglomerate was started by several
young professionals, among them a Komsomol activist whose
connections gave him official permission to start business.
Menatep spokesman Vladislav Surkov says the financial
conglomerate played middleman between government agencies
developing new projects and interested researchers. For each
project, the firm kept part of the fee as profit. In 1989,
Menatep used three million rubles to open its first bank. Now
it has 30 banks nationwide, brokerage and consulting arms,
and an annual turnover of 15 billion rubles.
   Mr. Sedlenek joined the party at the very early age of 20.
In 1987, he and two co-workers left the Komsomol bureaucracy
and formed an agency that later became Mr. Sedlenek's firm,
Triza.
   The company's offices are in a Komsomol ghetto of stately,
aging buildings in Moscow's center. Triza has two small rooms
in a building filled with Komsomol business spinoffs. Unlike
most Soviet offices, at Triza people look like they are
working. The phone rings nonstop. A woman who came to find
work two days ago is smiling because they have arranged
something for her.
   Like Western firms, Triza matches employers and employees,
charging employers a finding fee. Wall charts show Triza's
nine Moscow branches, and by year end, the firm plans to have
offices in 20 to 25 cities nationwide. Mr. Sedlenek is now
seeking Western partners to invest in a real estate agency
and a business school he is starting.
   None of this would have been possible without his Komsomol
past. "The deputy director of a local soft-drink plant knows
my work because we were in the Komsomol together," Mr.
Sedlenek says. "I call him and ask him to hire our clients.
He does and hasn't regretted it. It's just much easier to get
people to listen to you when they know you." Many former
bureaucrats also stress that Komsomol taught them how to
manage people and run organizations, skills few of their
peers have.
   "It's true we learned how to work, but there's the whole
issue of the Komsomol work style," Mr. Sedlenek says. "It's
like the joke about the boxcar full of marmalade. One
Komsomol guy asks another if he wants to buy it for a million
rubles. The other guy says, `no problem.' Then they go their
separate ways, one to look for a million rubles and the other
to find a boxcar of marmalade."