That Button Jar
   Just Might Be Worth
   A Small Fortune
   ---
   Collectors Seeking Treasures
   Haunt the Flea Markets;
   The Meaning of No. 992
   ----
   By Judith Valente
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Why? Because it's a button. Functional, sure, but a world
in miniature.
   Buttons such as this one have become more valuable lately
because collecting them is making a comeback as a hobby. In
just the past two years, membership in the National Button
Society has surged by 1,000, to 2,975. Crowds at button shows
are getting bigger. Last August, more than 500 people from 40
states came to ogle the "igloos" and "Tingues" on display at
the society's annual meeting. An igloo is a rare button made
of china; a Tingue is a glass button with a foil center.
   Buttons "give off auras of good taste, art, wealth and
magnificence," says author and incidental collector Tom
("Bonfire of the Vanities") Wolfe, who uses an array of
buttons to distinguish one of his white suits from another.
Adds Lucille Weingarten, who has collected 20,000 buttons in
25 years: "Buttons encompass every single art and craft known
to man."
   Button collectors are such a passionate lot, they have
been known to risk disease in pursuit of the "holey grail."
Diana Epstein, co-owner of the Tender Buttons shop in New
York, once put on a mask and hospital gown to buy a
collection from a woman in quarantine in New Orleans. Keith
Golden, by merest coincidence a Chicago hospital
administrator, says he has traipsed through 400 flea markets
in the past five years searching for buttons of historical
significance. (Sometimes they don't have to be all that
significant; he has bought as many as a thousand in a single
day.)
   At one time, button collectors say, theirs was the third
most popular hobby in the U.S., after numismatics and
philately. It took hold in the Depression after Iowa farm
woman Gertrude Patterson talked it up on her radio show. And
young women took to stringing buttons together in the belief
that when they got to No. 992 they would find their true
love.
   Collectors today are willing to pay top dollar for the
right button. Certain hand-painted Japanese buttons are
characterized by their intricate pictures of women, flowers
or birds on ceramic. They can cost as much as $400 each. Rare
18th-century Italian buttons of micromosaics depicting
classical ruins run as high as $1,200.
   Buttons that open interesting windows to the past are
among the most valuable. Particularly sought after:
18th-century French mother-of-pearl buttons containing coded
messages. One such button, from a man's frock coat, has on it
the letters L A C D. Pronounced in French, they sound out
"Elle a cede," or "She has given in." The words are worth
$600.
   In World War I, some U.S. Army uniforms came with brass
buttons that opened like a locket to hold the picture of a
loved one. But they were just as good for holding secret
messages or opium. Today, such smugglers' buttons can fetch
$600.
   But most buttons are cheap -- even fanciful ones of glass,
brass, seashell, wood, leather or fabric cost but a few
dollars. Ms. Epstein, who owns one of the most extensive
collections in the world, says one of her favorites is a
fabric button from a child's pajamas that says "Sleep Well."
She bought it for 50 cents.
   Practically every month, there's a button show in a
different state, and collectors make the rounds as cat
fanciers do, from show to show. They walk from table to table
with their Sherlock Holmes magnifiers, examining each button.
The new coffeetable book, "Buttons," published by Harry N.
Abrams Inc., has provided them a wealth of additional
information with which to make their personal appraisals. The
book has sold more than 15,000 copies since October, twice
what most art books of the sort sell in a year. (Last year,
Dutton Children's Books published "The Button Box," a
storybook primer on button collecting for youngsters.)
   Many collectors enter their most unusual buttons in
competitions. Standards are stiff, categories narrow: There
are more than 400. "If you're in a competition for enamels
and you throw in two porcelain buttons, you're going to be
disqualified," warns Ms. Weingarten. Collectors who make
mistakes get a big red dot or "measle" stamped over their
entry. Judges leave written critiques.
   Collectors say they get many hours' pleasure from this
Lilliputian world. In the 10,000 buttons that sit in boxes
piled high and that hang in frames on the wall of her home in
Essex Junction, Vt., Grace Folsom says she has found a sea of
serenity. Sorting through them is "something you can do and
enjoy and not think about anything else," says the former
service representative for the Internal Revenue Service.
"It's better than Valium," she says.
   Actress Brooke Shields says she got hooked on buttons when
she was three. "I went to the Third Avenue Thrift Shop in New
York with my mom. The women who worked there gave me boxes of
buttons to play with," she says. Now she decorates cards with
them.
   But buttons, alas, can also be a burdensome thing. Says
Mr. Wolfe: The writer Isak Dinesen told of a Danish prince
who left this suicide note, "Too many buttons to button and
unbutton."
   Though once considered by sexists of yore to be the domain
of farm wives and their female children, today's button
collectors include many men. By day, Byron Roche sells French
prints at a Chicago gallery. But he reserves nights and
weekends for collecting historical buttons worth, in his
estimation, "thousands."
   Mr. Roche is particularly captivated by uniform buttons.
(An ancestor of his fought for the Union in the Civil War.)
They fuel his imagination but he won't designate a favorite.
"Oh no," he says, "that would be like choosing among your
children."
   Collecting can become a profitable business if one does it
right. Eight years ago, California businesswoman Sarah
McGovern invested $125 in a trunk-full of buttons. Then she
began selling them to friends interested in sewing. When
orders kept coming, she opened the Renaissance Buttons shop
in Chicago. Her retail and wholesale business had sales of $1
million last year.
   Which hardly surprises Houston button dealer M.W.
(Freddie) Speights. He says a button that came his way from a
fleamarket garbage pile changed his life. In bankruptcy
proceedings at the time in 1969, Mr. Speights sold the button
to somebody for a nickel. Then he began collecting others to
sell. Soon he had a jar full, and selling buttons is now his
career.
   "Out of something no one wanted came a whole new life for
me," says Mr. Speights. "Buttons get you out of yourself.
You're on a constant quest. You're always looking for that
one elusive button."
   Button, button, who's got the button?
   (See related letter: "Letters to the Editor: On the
Buttons" -- WSJ March 20, 1992)
   920219-0106