Six Top European Executives Praise
   EC '92 Unity Plan Despite Its Problems
   ----
   By Philip Revzin
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Floris Maljers, chairman of Unilever NV, the food and
consumer products arm of the Anglo-Dutch giant, says, "The
better use of capital possible through the 1992 program turns
out to be much bigger than we had ever envisioned. . . close
to double what was originally estimated."
   But he quickly adds that less evident to a mass marketer
are the benefits of the next step-economic and monetary union
leading to a single currency by 1999. "Hopefully, what is now
called convergence will create a better business climate,"
Mr. Maljers says. He cautions, however, that a single EC
currency probably won't save Unilever, or most other
multinationals, a lot on currency transaction costs because
sophisticated currency hedging techniques already minimize
risks and costs.
   Mr. Maljers does see one major threat: a failure of the
multinational trade talks being conducted under the auspices
of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, currently
deadlocked over agricultural subsidies. "A trade war between
the three major trading blocs in the world could well do away
for us many of the advantages we hope to get from the
European Community," he warns.
   Jean-Louis Beffa, chairman of Saint-Gobain SA, the French
glass maker, says he has already been able to integrate more
of his company's operations in anticipation of the single
market. The lifting of all EC exchange controls, for instance
"changed the way we organized our finances" to give more
control to the head office, he says.
   But the post-1992 reforms agreed to in December at the
Maastricht summit, held in the Netherlands, while of huge
potential political significance, leave some businessmen
scratching their heads. Mr. Beffa says, "Rather an ambitious
thing has been set up, but for, say, six years from now at
least, while nothing is going to change for the next four
years or more. That makes me a little uncomfortable."
   Meanwhile, adds Mr. Beffa, the EC needs to decide whether
it is moving toward a wide but loose free-trade zone or an
integrated federal structure with a central decision-making
power. Mr. Beffa, reflecting the French government's view,
favors rapid and deep EC integration, but he doesn't see this
coming from Maastricht.
   Giuseppi Garofano, chairman of Italian chemical maker
Montedison S.p.A., stresses that European business wants more
and quicker movement. "The expectation of the European
multinational companies was much more toward a tougher and
quicker program to integrate the European market into a
single one," he says. "The role of the EC itself must be
clarified. If there is to be the creation of a European
Central Bank, the creation of a European currency, a very
strong political commitment has to be given by the EC
governments. Creating a central bank is not just a matter of
talks between central bankers -- we have to accept the
convergence of the different economies and that's a major
political problem. For Italy, this is going to be a major
task," Mr. Garofano says.
   Former EC Industry Commissioner Viscount Etienne Davignon,
who is now chairman of giant holding company Societe Generale
de Belgique S.A., says that the whole purpose of Maastricht
was to update EC structures built for the original six
member-countries -- France, then-West Germany, Belgium, the
Netherlands, Luxembourg and Italy -- which no longer work for
the present 12 member-countries. But Mr. Davignon argues that
the structures will work even less if the EC is enlarged.
   But for Mr. Davignon, the most significant result of the
Maastricht agreement and a powerful agent of economic change
will be the shame factor. By 1996 EC members will have to
meet strict targets on indicators such as inflation to
qualify to participate in the single currency.
   "Not to be in a position to meet the convergence targets
will be a major domestic political catastrophe -- this is
certainly true for France, for Belgium, for a number of other
countries," Mr. Davignon says.
   Otto Wolff von Amerongen, chairman of Otto Wolff AG, a
steel and engineering unit of Germany's Thyssen AG, says
German industry is vitally concerned with the possible
enlargement of the EC, especially to the East. "We Germans
are the most touched by the issue of enlargement, because
these are our neighbors," he says.
   He notes that the former Warsaw Pact nations and Soviet
republics may face a long transition period before inclusion
in the EC, "But we can't say we're excluding them because
that will" discourage those countries as they try to reform.
   A banker from Spain, which was in the last wave of EC
enlargement, Alfredo Pastor Bodmer, Director General of Banco
Espanol de Credito S.A., or Banesto, sees parallels between
the situation of the former Warsaw Pact countries and that of
his country.
   "Spain started opening up its economy in 1959 and 32 years
later we are still not quite ready for integration," he says.
"And the circumstances for us then were much more favorable
than they are today for these Eastern countries . . ."
   Subjects on which the executives diverge are on matters of
EC industrial policy and on EC's relations with the rest of
the world, especially the U.S. and Japan. Mr. Garofano, of
Montedison, says he doesn't think an EC-wide industrial
policy, even if desirable, is workable, "because we do not
have the same vision of capitalism, for instance in Southern
Europe" as in Germany.
   Mr. Beffa, of Saint-Gobain, says the EC institutions
should prepare to enforce an industrial policy. "We need to
prepare ourselves for world competition." he says.
   All of the executives are keenly aware that Japanese and
U.S. companies aren't going to react calmly to the
state-inspired creation of gigantic European champions. But
even here the executives say this problem is different in
each of their industries. Mr. Maljer, of Unilever, for
instance, isn't worried by direct Japanese competition.
   "I wouldn't like to underestimate the Japanese, but so far
they haven't succeeded in making tomato soup which is
acceptable to Belgians. And while I know this doesn't sound
like a lot of technology, I can assure you that it can take
decades before you make good tomato soup," he says.
   But Mr. Wolff, of Thyssen, says "The European steel
industry is much more competitive now than it was 10 or 12
years ago, but if the competition were opened to Japan I
think we would suffer."
   Mr. Beffa, of Saint-Gobain, stresses not so much
protectionism as reciprocity, especially with Japan.
   Mr. Garofano, of Montedison, places the emphasis on
European companies' need to "focus our attention on
innovation and technology" to find niches where European
industry can be world leaders.