Economy:
   United Airlines
   Domestic Fares
   To Rise by 2%
   ----
   By Asra Q. Nomani
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Major rivals hadn't matched the planned rise by late
yesterday, although it has clearly piqued their interest in
raising fares. A spokesman at American Airlines said the
carrier is taking a "very careful and close" look at the
proposed fare boost. If rival carriers don't go along with
the fare rise, Chicago-based United is likely to back off so
its fares aren't higher than competitors.
   In January, the industry followed an earlier United lead
and raised domestic fares 2%. Despite that fare increase,
every major airline except USAir recorded a rise in traffic
during the month, and industry traffic as a whole climbed
10.8% from the year-earlier period.
   Though traffic was severely depressed by the Gulf war in
January 1991, the sizable increase was nevertheless
encouraging to the industry. United also may feel more
comfortable trying a second fare increase because the number
of its competitors has been shrinking.
   This effort to raise fares comes after the industry posted
its bloodiest year in history. A string of airlines filed for
protection from creditors under Chapter 11 of the federal
Bankruptcy Code. The casualties included Eastern Airlines,
Pan American World Airways and Midway Airlines.
   The consolidation has brought the U.S. air market into
what some consider an oligopolistic situation dominated by
what's now known as the Big Three: UAL Corp.'s United, AMR
Corp.'s American and Delta Air Lines. There has been some
concern among aviation consumer advocates that fliers will
end up paying for the Big Three's new market dominance. They
could cite United's efforts as a case in point.
   Under United's latest move, which showed up in computer
reservation systems yesterday, domestic fares would increase
2%, starting March 3. Between Chicago and Los Angeles, the
one-way coach fare would increase to $686 from $673. That
fare is popular among business fliers because it has few
travel restrictions.
   The 21-day advance purchase vacation fare between
Washington, D.C., and New Orleans would jump to $383
round-trip from $375.
   Airline stocks rose in response to the proposed action. On
the New York Stock Exchange, UAL stock was quoted at $155.375
a share, up $4.375; AMR at $79, up $3.25, and Delta at
$72.125, up $2.75 a share. The Dow Jones Transportation Index
rose sharply by 42.79 points to 1467.68.
   A United spokesman said the proposed fare increase
reflects "an adjustment of fare levels to more compensatory
pricing," the identical language the airline's officials used
when they proposed the January fare rise. This fare increase
would apply to travel in all 50 U.S. states.
   Fare boosts are widely expected in the industry this year.
Executives at United, American, USAir Group Inc. and
Northwest Airlines have complained regularly about fares
being too low because of carriers operating under Chapter 11
protection. Northwest is a unit of NWA Inc., which in turn is
a unit of Wings Holdings Inc.
   American Express Co.'s Travel Related Services unit
estimates that business fares will rise 10% to 12% this year,
largely because of escalating airline operating costs amid
reduced competition in the industry.
   Consumers clearly are already feeling the effects. As part
of a monthly survey of air fares, American Express said that
full coach fares in January rose month-over-month for the
first time since last May. January full coach fares jumped
3%, it said, compared with December fare levels. It said that
year-over-year full coach fares rose 4%, while overall
business fares jumped 21%.