WORK  FAMILY
   ----
   By Sue Shellenbarger
COMPANIES try new ways to help employees care for aging
relatives from afar.
   An estimated one-third of the work force bears care-giving
responsibility for older relatives, with about half of that
group located more than 100 miles away from the recipient of
care. For the employee, the result is often anxiety, hours on
the phone and time spent away from work.
   One fast-growing service offered by International Business
Machines and others is called "resource and referral." This
includes telephone networks for counseling, information about
services in the elder's community and screened referrals.
   When Charles Shaw's 74-year-old mother fell and broke her
hip, the Travelers executive flew from his Hartford, Conn.,
office to her Canton, Ill., home. With information provided
by Travelers' resource and referral service, he moved his
parents into a nursing home and was back on the job in a few
days. The service helped with follow-up care as well.
   Education programs are growing. Barbara B. Lepis of
Partnership for Elder Care, a venture of New York City and
three employers, sees strong demand for seminars on
long-distance care giving. She stresses building a support
network, including neighbors, clergy and physicians, in the
elderly relative's community.
   Other companies help prepare for and prevent mishaps, says
Michael Creedon, a Vienna, Va., consultant on aging. Southern
California Gas offers a video on the "friendly home," with
railings, carpets, counters and appliances designed for
safety. Such efforts "help the employee look for ways to make
the elder's home a secure environment," he says.
                                                                                                       

   More Employers Extend
   Benefits to Gay Partners
                                                                                                       

   GAY and lesbian employees' efforts to win family benefits
gain momentum.
   Levi Strauss and Minnesota Communications Group, owner of
Minnesota Public Radio, recently joined Lotus Development and
about a dozen other U.S. companies in extending health
benefits to gay partners. Several cities and counties have
done the same.
   The growing recognition of homosexual partnerships,
particularly the move last month by Levi Strauss, with 23,000
U.S. workers, is "making more companies feel comfortable"
that insuring gays doesn't mean runaway costs, says Dorothy
McNaughton of Hewitt Associates. So far, employers have found
both the cost of insuring homosexual partners and their rate
of health-plan participation to be lower than expected.
   The issue is a hot one at companies with an increasingly
diverse work force. Dozens are taking intermediate steps by
offering gay partners other benefits. When Sprint transfers
an employee, it gives relocation aid to unmarried partners.
BankAmerica offers bereavement and family leave.
   Others are awaiting the outcome of a federal court lawsuit
in New York by the lesbian partner of a deceased American
Telephone  Telegraph worker. In what some see as a landmark
case, she is charging ATT with discrimination for denying
her spousal death benefits.
   Most employers that offer benefits to gay partners also
offer them to unmarried heterosexual partners. Lotus is among
the exceptions.
                                                                                                       

   Working Parents Hunger
   For Help in the Kitchen
                                                                                                       

   DOES IT PAY to market new products to frazzled working
parents?
   Yes, if microwave meals for kids are any guide.
   Sales of frozen individual dinners for children, including
Kid Cuisine by ConAgra and Looney Tunes by Tyson Foods, have
risen 15% from a year ago. My Own Meals and Geo. A. Hormel
are rolling out shelf-stable entries as well. The product
category "is doing very well," says Martin Friedman of New
Product News.
   Working parents need help in the kitchen, says My Own
Meals' Mary Anne Jackson, Deerfield, Ill., who introduced a
line of kids' meals in 1986. As a working mom, she says, "I
feel guilty that my kids may not be getting the same meal my
mom served me."
   Though none of the marketers recommend that kids heat the
meals alone, some have heat-resistant handles so a child can
lift them safely from the microwave.
   Pitches for some of the products strike a nerve. Family
Affairs, a periodical of the Institute for American Values, a
think tank on family issues, was flooded with letters after
it quoted a ConAgra unit's 1989 news release: "What's a kid
to do when he finally gets home from a rocky afternoon at day
care? . . . Quick, mom, pop a complete, nutritious frozen
dinner in the microwave."
   The idea that a child needs to be indulged with an
individual meal because he or she has been in day care
brought protests from Nina Shapiro-Perl, a Washington, D.C.,
video producer and mother. "It's not so much the food I'm
worried about," she says. "It's just the values I don't want
my children to swallow."
   But for many parents, pragmatism prevails. "At least the
kids are getting something good to eat," Mr. Friedman says.
                                                                                                       

   Odds and Ends
                                                                                                       

   MORE employees are returning from family leave at Aetna
Life  Casualty. Of those who began leaves in the year ended
last June, 91% have returned, up from 77% who took leaves
three years earlier. The number of men taking family leave
tripled in the same period -- to nine. . . . After First
Chicago broadened its employee-assistance programs to cover
family conflict and other psychological issues, employees'
mental-health claims fell to less than 12% of total health
costs from over 14%. More employees were using the services,
but their problems were treated at earlier stages.