Corporate Focus:
   Met Life Reaps Benefits of Cautious Path During '80s
   ---
   Insurer Avoided Industry Woes
   By Shunning Risky Junk Bonds, Realty
   ----
   By Susan Pulliam
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
What's more, Metropolitan recently added nearly $2 billion
in assets, bringing its total to $144 billion, by taking over
the businesses of troubled insurers. These included the
annuity business of Executive Life Insurance Co. of New York,
which was seized by regulators last summer, and part of the
pension business of Mutual Life Insurance Co. of New York,
which hit financial straits last year.
   "It's a unique situation for us now," says Harry P. Kamen,
one of four senior executive vice presidents. "We've got
momentum," says Mr. Kamen. "{Troubled insurers} come to us;
they're knocking on our door. And, as good neighbors, we say,
`Sure, we'll see if we've got a cup of sugar for you.'"
   Indeed, analysts say Metropolitan is to the insurance
industry what J.P. Morgan is to the banking industry. "They
are one of the few companies in the position of playing a
leading role in the industry," says Martin Weiss, of Weiss
Associates, a Palm Beach, Fla., insurance rating concern.
   Unlike some of its competitors, Metropolitan avoided the
temptation of investing heavily in risky assets like junk
bonds and real estate in order to lure policyholders with
high interest rates. "There were people out there offering
higher rates. But we were willing to live through this
period, because investment quality is important to us," said
Robert E. Chappell Jr., senior executive vice president.
   The acquisitions were a boon for Metropolitan in more ways
than one. The insurer picked up a sizable amount of business
cheaply, since both transactions involved a transfer of
business to Metropolitan for a small price tag. (In the case
of ELNY, for example, the price will amount to as little as
$70 million, equal to the commissions it would have paid
agents for the new business.)
   Even more important, Metropolitan picked up the new
business without taking on any new risks with it. "They are
really very shrewd," says John Kleiman, an analyst with
Conning  Co. in Hartford, Conn. "There is not much risk in
these deals on their part."
   But the two transactions have raised questions in the
minds of some industry pros about whether the deals were
disadvantageous to some policyholders of MONY and ELNY. In
the case of ELNY, some former customers remain under
regulator control, and Metropolitan is "taking the good
assets and leaving the government holding the bad ones," says
Mr. Weiss.
   What's more, some analysts are now wondering whether the
additional business might eventually cost Metropolitan its
triple-A rating. Some say a wiser strategy for Met would have
been to allow its capital ratio to increase even more,
especially since rating concerns are more closely watching
the industry. Making Metropolitan's management even edgier
was the recent downgrading of the nation's largest insurer
and Met's age-old rival, Prudential Insurance Co. of America,
which lost its triple-A rating in January.
   An even more pressing issue in coming years for
Metropolitan, run by the team of four senior executive vice
presidents, will be keeping down expenses, according to
Robert G. Schwartz, chairman and chief executive officer, who
plans to retire next year. Besides Mr. Kamen and Mr.
Chappell, the senior executive vice presidents in the running
for the insurer's top spot are Ted Athanassiades and Stewart
G. Nagler.
   Indeed, expenses for 1990 in its life insurance business,
including commissions for agents, totaled $1.2 billion at
Metropolitan, which still serves 6,000 employees a free lunch
at its massive headquarters in midtown Manhattan. As a
percentage of premiums, that's nine percentage points above
the industry average of 29%. With criticism of the high
expense levels at mutual insurers increasing, the issue is a
sensitive one at Metropolitan.
   "Controlling expenses and increasing efficiency will be an
ongoing challenge for us," Mr. Schwartz says. Last year, the
company put in place a policy of holding expenses for the
foreseeable future at the level of 1990. That will likely
lead to staff reductions, however. In 1991, the company
offered 1,000 employees voluntary separation packages. The
insurer's free lunch may even be discontinued.
   The industry's troubles have not left Metropolitan
completely untouched. For example its guaranteed investment
contract business -- a type of annuity sold to pension funds
-- increased only 4% in 1991 to $6.7 billion.
   "We're just treading water in that area," said Mr.
Athanassiades. Some areas of its GIC business, in particular
its so-called traditional GICs, have actually been shrinking
faster than the industry.
   The development is especially surprising since pension
managers are widely thought to be transferring their business
to triple-A companies. But, according to Mr. Athanassiades,
most of Metropolitan's GIC contracts are large ones held by
big companies. Those customers, he says, are substituting
GICs for other products, such as mutual funds.
   Metropolitan has turned down most merger proposals. Merger
talks began this summer with Mutual of New York, whose
policyholders began panicking this summer after real estate
troubles led to a sharp downgrading. But instead of merging
the two companies, which would have left Metropolitan with a
large increase in sour real estate loans, Metropolitan agreed
to take over the contracts of many of the pension customers
of MONY, the group of customers most worried about the
insurer's financial health.
   Part of the agreement between the two insurers, however,
was that Metropolitan would not take on any of MONY's
troubled real estate as part of the transaction. To further
protect itself, Metropolitan segregated the assets backing
the pension business from its own.
   The end result left pension customers, rather than
Metropolitan, to absorb the losses should any of the assets
in the pool turn sour. The transactions' subtleties were not
lost on pension customers, however. Only one-third of those
offered the deal transferred their business to Met.
   Similar criticisms were made of Metropolitan's transaction
with ELNY, which allowed Metropolitan to avoid taking on any
of ELNY's junk-bond portfolio. Instead, Metropolitan received
$1.5 billion in cash and cash equivalents.
   Mr. Chappell shrugs off such complaints, however. "We're
not willing to be the savior of the industry at the expense
of our own strength," he says.