Encor, Canadian Units of Dow Chemical,
   Amoco to Swap $852.4 Million in Interests
   ----
   By Suzanne McGee
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The agreement, the product of nearly three years of
discussion between Amoco, Encor and Maligne, will leave the
partners with higher working interests in more of their oil
and gas properties, allowing them to control or reduce costs.
   "The exercise was designed to ensure they had a high-grade
working interest in properties, rather than just a small
bit," said Richard Wyman, an analyst with Peters  Co. in
Calgary, Alberta.
   Encor, a Calgary oil and gas concern, said the transaction
won't alter its reserves, production levels or reserve mix.
But its average working interest in properties will rise to
37% from 15%, and the struggling, debt-laden company will be
able to operate about 47% of its producing land holdings,
compared with about 13% previously.
   The rationalization program "marks a major step forward in
our drive to streamline operations," said Charles Fischer,
Encor's president and chief executive.
   While Encor said streamlined assets will be easier to
manage, analysts and investors responded to the news with
less enthusiasm. In trading on the Toronto Stock Exchange
yesterday, shares of Encor dropped two Canadian cents to
close at 26 Canadian cents.
   "This doesn't offer that much upside for Encor," said Mr.
Wyman, the Peters  Co. analyst, noting that the properties
involved in the transaction are "mature" oil and gas
producing assets. "It doesn't necessarily mean they will be
able to cut debt, and likely won't improve prices," he added.
   At last report, Encor had C$550 million in debt.
   In late trading on the New York Stock Exchange, Dow
Chemical was quoted at $54.125, down 12.5 cents, while Amoco
was at $45.375, down 50 cents.
   The agreement, which is set to close March 1, will clear
the way for a proposed merger of some of Amoco Canada's and
Maligne's Canadian producing assets, and their spinoff into a
new publicly traded concern.
   Amoco and Dow Chemical proposed the spinoff last August.
The move would allow Amoco Canada's parent to meet
commitments to Canada's foreign investment regulators related
to its 1988 acquisition of troubled Canadian oil giant, Dome
Petroleum Ltd. Amoco Corp. had agreed to sell 20% of Amoco
Canada to the public by 1998, but now says the unit has too
much debt to proceed with the original plan. Under the accord
with Dow Chemical, 70% of the new company, Crestar Energy,
would be sold to the Canadian public by mid1994.
   "We are pleased that raionalization is completed so we can
proceed with the formation of Crestar, an important step
toward our withdrawal from the oil and gas industry," said
Denis Wilcock, president and chief executive of Dow Chemical
Canada Inc., in a written statement.
   No details have been given on which assets will form part
of that transaction, but the two companies have said little
of their own debt will be spun off along with the oil and gas
assets.