What's News --
   World-Wide
A $3,750 tax credit that Bush proposed to help poor
Americans buy health insurance would be collected directly by
states, which in turn would enroll recipients in a health
insurance plan.
   ---
   Mideast talks began in Moscow amid discord over the makeup
of the Palestinian delegation, which was termed unacceptable
by Israel. Opening the two-day conference, Secretary of State
Baker listed five working groups to deal with economic
cooperation, environmental programs, water-sharing, refugees
and arms control.
   ---
   A civilian helicopter was shot down over the disputed
enclave of Nagorno-Karabakh, killing about 40 people,
according to reports from the area. An Azerbaijani
presidential spokesman blamed the attack on Armenian rebels
who have been fighting for control of the enclave, which is
located in Azerbaijan near the Iranian border.
   ---
   Yeltsin brushed aside speculation about his health, flying
to southern Russia for talks with commanders of the Black Sea
fleet. The Russian leader had abruptly canceled his meetings
a day earlier. Separately, Russia's central bank chief said
authorities will intervene in currency markets to stem the
ruble's slide.
   ---
   South African police arrested neo-Nazi leader Eugene
TerreBlanche and nine of his top aides in an apparent warning
to rightwing militants. The Afrikaner Resistance Movement
members were charged with public violence in connection with
a riot last August in TerreBlanche's hometown of Ventersdorp.
   ---
   China's Deng Xiaoping reportedly gave indications that
Beijing will resume the path of economic reform from which it
was diverted by hard-liners after the Tiananmen Square
massacre in 1989. But Deng also made clear that Beijing isn't
about to ease the political repression it has maintained in
the same period.
   ---
   A House panel approved a bill that would finance a 13-week
extension of federal benefits for jobless workers. Bush, who
last year questioned the need for extended benefits, urged
lawmakers yesterday to move quickly on the $2.7 billion
measure. The Senate Finance Committee is to act tomorrow on
its own version of the bill.
   ---
   U.N. chief Boutros-Ghali circulated a private report to
Security Council members stating that U.N. inspectors who
were roughed up in Baghdad on Monday are looking for secret
Iraqi biological and chemical weapons plants, the Associated
Press said. The council, meanwhile, began a periodic review
of its sanctions against Iraq.
   ---
   Police in Algiers arrested a Muslim fundamentalist leader
as Algeria's militarybacked government pressed its crackdown
on opponents, according to members of the Islamic Salvation
Front. About two dozen police raided the party's headquarters
and seized Rabah Kebir, the party's director of external
relations, witnesses said.
   ---
   The Senate passed a Democratic-sponsored bill to encourage
local school innovations, but the measure rejected Bush's
proposal to send federal money to some private schools. Sent
to the House on a 92-6 vote, the legislation would allow
individual schools to compete for funds by proposing reforms.
   ---
   The U.S. Coast Guard intercepted hundreds more Haitian
refugees after setting a record on Monday, when 30 boats were
intercepted with 1,305 refugees. Advocates for the refugees
said that the surge showed that the Caribbean nation's
political situation was deteriorating rapidly.
   ---
   A top Libyan official said Tripoli was ready to hand over
Libyan suspects in the bombings of a Pan Am jet and a French
airliner. Abdel-Salam Jalloud, speaking in Turkey for Libyan
leader Gadhafi, urged that "an independent and unbiased
international commission" be formed that could be entrusted
with the suspects.
   ---
   A U.N. envoy failed to win the full backing of Croatian
leaders and hard-line Serbs for a U.N. plan to send
peacekeeping troops to Croatia. Marrack Goulding, a U.N.
undersecretary, has appealed to both sides in the Yugoslav
conflict to accept proposals to send 10,000 peacekeepers to
Croatia.
   ---
   The World Health Organization adopted a revised strategy
to combat AIDS that focuses more on women, saying they are
increasingly at risk. It was the first time the U.N. agency
had changed its AIDS strategy since 1987. AIDS still mainly
affects men in North America and Europe, but it is more
evenly spread in the Third World.
   ---
   A Texas meat scientist agreed to head the Agriculture
Department's troubled Food Safety and Inspection Service. The
selection of Russell Cross for the post is due to be
announced next month.