War Anniversary:
   How Saddam Hussein
   Survives Sanctions
   And Dissent for a Year
   ---
   Oil Funds Squirreled Away,
   Starting in the 1970s, Now
   Provide a Lifeline for Iraq
   ---
   Reign of Terror Is Tight Rein
   ----
   By Gerald F. Seib and John J. Fialka
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
But one thing hasn't changed: Saddam Hussein is still
standing. In fact, the White House's political woes raise the
bizarre possibility that, despite his crushing defeat, Saddam
Hussein actually could outlast his nemesis, George Bush, in
power.
   The story of how Saddam Hussein has survived despite
suffocating economic sanctions and growing internal dissent
lies in large part in a cunning, little-understood economic
support system the Iraqi ruler quietly constructed over the
past two decades. The central question now is whether this
life-support system -- coupled with a well-known system of
internal terror -- will enable him to grind down the will of
the international community and outlive the United Nations
sanctions designed to strangle his economy.
   In conversations with an array of U.S. officials, private
American investigators and exiled Iraqi officials, there is
uncertainty about the extent of Iraq's clandestine foreign
economic activity, but all agree that it has been key to his
survival. Former Iraqi officials say the story begins in the
early 1970s, when Iraq began siphoning oil revenue into a
kind of giant political slush fund. This eventually built a
multibillion-dollar financial cushion that is now helping
sustain Saddam Hussein despite the U.N. sanctions.
   Then, during the 1980-88 Iran-Iraq war, Saddam Hussein's
lieutenants created a subterranean network of trading
companies to feed his war machine. The network now operates
from Jordan and Switzerland to maintain a skeletal economy
and keep his cronies satisfied despite sanctions.
   "We've been in this business a long time, and we've never
seen a procurement network put together like the one used by
the Iraqis in the 1980s," says Jules Kroll, head of Kroll
Associates Inc., the New York investigation firm Kuwait hired
to track down Iraq's money. "We believe they are now busy
reconstructing that network using different names."
   Obviously, Saddam Hussein needs more than money to
survive. Fearful of enemies within, he has been consolidating
power into an ever-smaller circle of relatives and cronies,
many from his hometown of Tikrit. Within the last few months,
he has replaced his prime minister, defense minister and
interior minister.
   Now, Arab diplomats report tantalizing hints of dissension
within even that small circle of confidants. In one recent
incident, these people say, the personal guards of the new
Iraqi defense minister, who is Saddam Hussein's cousin,
exchanged gunfire with the security guards of the new
interior minister, who is Saddam Hussein's half-brother.
   Both the American and Saudi Arabian governments in recent
weeks have broadened their contacts with Iraqi dissidents,
sensing that the fractious Shiite, Sunni and Kurdish elements
of the opposition may finally be starting to pull together.
Saudi Arabia is trying to arrange an international conference
bringing together the full spectrum of Iraqi opposition
groups. At least seven opposition radio transmitters are
beaming anti-Saddam messages into Iraq from Saudi Arabia,
Syria, Iran, Kuwait and Egypt.
   In the U.S., the Bush administration has just completed a
quiet policy review that laid new plans to help Saddam
Hussein's foes if an internal insurrection begins.
Administration officials insist that while they would love to
see Saddam Hussein's exit, it isn't crucial to see him go.
They argue that the war effectively ended his ability to
intimidate his neighbors -- and cite as proof the successful
launching of the Arab-Israeli peace process despite Iraq's
virulent opposition. "The dark force of Arab politics has
been put back in his box," argues a senior administration
aide.
   Nonetheless, Saddam Hussein's continuing presence is an
acute political embarrassment for President Bush as he faces
a re-election campaign. For the Saudi Arabians, it is worse
than that: They see Saddam Hussein as a standing threat.
   Just yesterday, Robert Gates, the U.S. director of central
intelligence, said in congressional testimony that Iraq will
remain a "primary" threat to develop weapons of mass
destruction as long as Saddam Hussein remains in power.
   Iraqi dissidents argue that the time to oust Saddam
Hussein is this year. "To tell you the truth, I can't put
more than a 50-50 hope on the chances for a change," says
Salah al-Shaikhly, a former Iraqi government planner who now
is active in the opposition. But, he says, "If that 50% is to
materialize, it's going to have to happen in the next few
months." Eventually, he says, the clamor for doing business
with oil-rich Iraq will undermine international support for
sanctions.
   If Saddam Hussein does outlast the U.N. sanctions, much of
the credit will be due to a secret decision by the Baath
party in 1972. Back then, when Saddam Hussein was still
rising through the Iraqi leadership, the party's
Revolutionary Command Council decreed that 5% of Iraq's
future oil revenue should be set aside for future
"eventualities," says Mr. al-Shaikhly, who was a senior
official in the planning ministry at the time. "This money
was probably invested in Switzerland and Japan and other
European countries."
   Saddam Hussein was one of three officials given power over
the fund, the former official says, and he is the only one
still alive. The other two were Adnan Khairallah, a former
defense minister who died in a helicopter crash, and Adnan
Hamdani, a former minister of planning who was executed.
   Another exiled official, former Planning Minister Jawad
Hashim, says the fund may have grown to $30 billion by the
start of the Gulf War. Mr. Kroll, the New York investigator,
is far more conservative, but still estimates that Iraq and
Saddam Hussein's family have placed between $10 billion and
$15 billion of liquid assets outside of Iraq. He figures no
more than a third of that is frozen by the sanctions, with
the rest escaping official detection.
   (Officially, Iraq informed U.N. humanitarian officials in
mid-July that it had a mere $14.8 million in foreign exchange
reserves and an unspecified amount of gold bullion. But it
has refused to respond to a Security Council resolution
requiring it to provide a monthly accounting of its foreign
currency reserves at home and abroad, U.N. officials say.)
   The money in Swiss accounts, Mr. Kroll asserts, is
overseen by Barzan Ibrahim, Saddam Hussein's half-brother,
who is a member of the U.N.'s Human Rights Commission in
Geneva. Mr. Ibrahim has previously denied the charge.
   Whatever the precise source of Iraqi funds, they clearly
are being used to procure goods above and beyond those
allowed by U.N. sanctions, which prohibit the sale of Iraqi
oil and limit imports to humanitarian needs such as food and
medicine. Even these restrictions may be loosening a little,
as Iraq and U.N. officials negotiate to clear the way for the
first open sale of Iraqi oil since the war. One sign that
Iraq isn't desperate for cash is that it so far has rejected
a plan for it to sell $1.6 billion of oil because terms of
the proposed transaction called for the U.N. to monitor the
use of the proceeds.
   But there is evidence that deals already are being done.
Mr. Kroll, U.S. businesspeople and Iraqi dissidents all
report that Iraq has set up a series of front companies and
middlemen in Jordan to move oil and money out of Iraqi hands
and to ship goods into the country. In Amman, Jordanians have
been struck by the number of middle-class Iraqis holed up in
their city's hotels. "Of course there's business going on,"
says one Jordanian businessman. "It didn't stop during the
war, so why should it stop now? Jordan is Iraq's lifeline.
Under the table, everyone is cutting deals."
   Mr. Kroll points to what he believes is one such deal. He
displays telexes from the Madrid office of Marc Rich  Co., a
Swiss trading company, to Dr. Fadhil Othman, head of the
Iraqi State Oil Marketing Organization, in Amman. The telex
offer, dated last Aug. 26, says Marc Rich is interested in
buying 100,000 barrels of Iraqi oil a day and is also
interested in selling grain and sugar to Iraq. The telex
offers no indication of the date of the offered transaction,
aside from a reference in accompanying documents to October
oil prices.
   Marc Rich also sent copies of the telex to Jaraco S.A., a
Geneva-based trading company that Mr. Kroll says is operated
by Barzan Ibrahim and two Iranian brothers, Esfandiar and
Bahman Bakhtiar. Iranian exiles identify the brothers as the
sons of Taymour Bakhtiar, a former head of Iran's secret
police who went into exile in Iraq after he was fired by the
late Shah of Iran. Taymour Bakhtiar later was assassinated in
Iraq, and his widow and sons developed a close relationship
to Saddam Hussein, who is said to treat the Bakhtiar brothers
as adopted sons.
   Jaraco won't answer questions on the telexes or the
company's ownership. "We're sorry to tell you that our
company's policy is not to give any interviews," says an
employee who answers the phone at the firm's Geneva office.
   Leonard Garment, a Washington lawyer who represents Marc
Rich in a case involving U.S. tax-evasion charges in New
York, says Mr. Rich's company is being unfairly singled out
by Mr. Kroll. "Everybody and his cousin who is in the oil
business is in Amman negotiating arrangements on an `if, as
and when' basis as to the lifting of the embargo," says Mr.
Garment. He adds that Marc Rich's telex to the Iraqi oil
marketing organization was only an "expression of interest"
and was made subject to the lifting of U.N. sanctions.
   But others say the oil and other goods are moving now. Mr.
Kroll says hundreds of Iraqi oil trucks arrive in Jordan
daily. Mr. Kroll says his firm suspects the shipments go
beyond Jordan's energy needs and may wind up in Syria or
Lebanon. Similarly, Nathaniel Kern, vice president of Foreign
Reports, a Washington-based firm that provides political news
to oil and other companies operating in the Middle East, says
his clients have reported "substantial" deals with Iraq being
transacted in Amman, although Jordan has started to curb
business with Iraq within the last few days. "Iraq's desire
is to build up business lobbies throughout the Western
world," he says. And Ahmad Chalabi, a London-based banker and
leader of the Iraqi opposition, says the Iraqi government has
been "getting raw material" through Jordan, including steel
to use in weapons-factory repairs.
   Jordan insists it isn't sanctioning any sanctions-busting.
"I'm not aware of an Iraqi trade organization in Amman," says
Marwan Muasher, spokesman for the Jordanian Embassy in
Washington. "If there is evidence, let him {Mr. Kroll}
produce it." While Iraqi individuals may travel to Amman
because it is their only outlet to the West, Mr. Muasher
says, "certainly they aren't conducting business on behalf of
their government." He adds: "We aren't involved as a
government in any illegal activity with Iraq."
   U.S. officials take a more cautious approach. They say
goods are indeed moving across the Jordanian border, and add
that they have raised the issue with the Jordanian
government. But they assert that the descriptions of heavy
trade are overstated and that Jordan has taken steps to slow
the flow and carry out its trade with Iraq under terms of
U.N. sanctions. Perhaps because of pressure on Jordan, there
have been signs lately of an increasing flow of goods across
the Turkish-Iraqi border.
   No one thinks that Saddam Hussein's economic sleight of
hand is enough to keep his entire country fat and happy. And
indeed there are hints of growing unrest. U.N. officials
report that when they visit the southern Iraqi city of Basra,
a Shiite stronghold, they hear gunfire at night. Thousands of
Shiites are believed to be encamped in the swamps of the
Tigris-Euphrates delta. Recent weeks have brought
increasingly frequent reports of fights within the army.
Iraqi officials acknowledge they are doing house-to-house
searches for arms.
   But some opposition leaders fear that Saddam Hussein can
keep enough money and goods flowing to satisfy the needs of
his political cronies and the Iraqi Army units he needs to
intimidate his enemies. According to Mr. Chalabi, those
include three Republican Guards divisions positioned outside
Baghdad, and three divisions of his more elite protection
force encamped inside the city. "They are the ones who are
getting the best food and equipment," he says. Meanwhile,
Saddam Hussein's foreign adversaries remain concerned that
parts of his nuclear weapons and missile programs remain
hidden.
   Despite reports of poverty and malnutrition, the Iraqi
ruler recently raised salaries of government and army
employees by 20%. As for the rest of the Iraqi population,
last weekend they received assurances that they didn't lose
last year's war, after all: "When the great confrontation
took place, God decreed that victory once again must go to
the Iraqis because they follow the path of truth while their
enemies follow the path of falsehood."
   ---
   Tony Horwitz in London contributed to this article.