Commodities:
   December Gives Life Back to the Futures
   ----
   By Stanley W. Angrist
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Some did even better. John Henry, a trading adviser with
about $950 million under management, produced a composite 40%
gain for all of his accounts. Through the first 11 months of
1991, Mr. Henry had achieved a so-so return of 13.5%. In
December, he turned that performance into an eye-popping gain
of more than 55% for the year.
   For many trading advisers, though, futures' fantastic
month saved their bacon in what would have been a disastrous
year. The clients in Mr. Tamiso's best fund, for example,
lost only 1.8% of their account balances in 1991 instead of
the 17.5% that the fund was down as December began. And
despite the strong finish, his overall 1991 return is far
below his 10-year compound annual return of 22%.
   Most of the advisers who manage money for others, through
either private accounts or commodity funds, had fared poorly
through November. Futures markets bobbed and drifted,
producing few trends for the professionals to ride. Managed
Account Reports, an industry newsletter that tracks managed
money by way of several indexes, says its trading adviser
index was down 7.7% in the first 11 months.
   Then came December. Suddenly, prices of a wide range of
futures contracts started either climbing or falling
steadily, and the trading advisers jumped aboard. On the
upswing were wheat, most currencies and bond and stock index
futures. Prices declined for crude oil, heating oil, gasoline
and precious-metals futures.
   Such trends are a godsend for a substantial number of
trading advisers who employ a strategy called "trend
following" in deciding what to buy or sell. Most trend
followers use mathematical techniques to tell them when a
futures contract is beginning a sustained rise -- in which
case they buy it -- or decline -- which signals them to sell
it. The longer the trends last, the more money they make. But
"whipsaws" -- where prices start moving in one direction,
then quickly reverse and reverse again -- devour investment
capital in a series of losses.
   Trading advisers who are whipsawed several times a year
find themselves with an unattractive performance record and
soon with fewer clients and less money to manage. That's how
1991 was shaping up through November.
   Few traders saw a more spectacular turnaround than Tom
Shanks, the adviser for Hawksbill Capital Management in Santa
Rosa, Calif. Mr. Shanks, a former student of Richard Dennis,
a super-successful trend-following trader, rode the moves in
currencies, metals and energy futures. He increased the
number of contracts he usually trades to capitalize on the
trends while they lasted, though that move also added to the
ever-present risk of futures.
   His strategy produced a whopping gain of 60% for the
month. Unfortunately, even that wasn't quite enough to
overcome the 50% drop in account equity his clients were
holding going into December. They still ended the year down
20%.
   Another former student of Mr. Dennis's, Elizabeth Cheval
of EMC Capital Management, was also having a punk year, with
a composite return for her accounts of minus 29% at the
beginning of December. But after a 44% gain last month, her
clients found themselves ending the year comfortably on the
plus side. Ms. Cheval's investors, who have placed about $110
million under her management, are no strangers to volatility.
They lost 4% in 1989 after being down 26% going into December
that year. Those who kept their accounts open, however, were
rewarded with a walletbusting return of 186% in 1990.
   Mr. Tamiso says trend-following traders have long been
ridiculed by many financial advisers because investors must
pin their returns on particular types of market moves that
are unpredictable. "Of course, I don't like working for 11
1/2 months with nothing to show for it and then get all my
reward in two weeks. But that just means markets can't read
calendars." he says.
   He acknowledges that trend-following traders are
continually plagued by long and frequent periods of whipsaws
that chew up capital. But in defense of the technique, he
says: "I don't know when the parade is going to come by this
corner, but I do know that sooner or later it will come. And
when it passes I know I'll have a great seat."
   Not all traders saw a mediocre year turn into a great one
in December. Monroe Trout, an experienced adviser with an
outstanding record, achieved a 2.2% return for his clients
last month. "We experienced a steady month with a high
proportion of our days profitable," he says. Mr. Trout, who
has a three-year annual compound return of 38% with a maximum
drop in account equity in that period of 9%, says, "If the
volume {of trading} builds and if we start trading well, I'll
increase the size of my positions." Mr. Trout's clients, on
average, finished the year up about 9%. That's hardly a
disaster, but he nonetheless lost some clients last year.
They withdrew $50 million, apparently in search of fatter
returns. He now has about $220 million under management.
   Tom Basso, a trading adviser who manages more than $40
million, says December "was the `revenge of the long-term
position traders.'" He earned in excess of 20% last month,
giving him a return of about 12% for the year. Mr. Basso
explains that his trading was blindsided on three occasions
-- the day after the Gulf War started in January, the
attempted coup in Moscow in August and the failure of that
coup. "Take those three days away and I probably would be up
40% for the year," laments Mr. Basso. But, he asks
rhetorically, "Do you design trading systems so they perform
well under normal market conditions, or do you design them
for the unusual days?"
   Peter Kordell, a former trading adviser and now a
consultant to the futures industry, says that 1991 was really
not so aberrant a year. "It's always been my feeling that
most commodities make one or two good moves in a year," he
says. "The balance of the year you spend your time trying to
hang on to what you made during those moves."
   Looking ahead to commodity markets this week:
                                                                                                       

   Energy
                                                                                                       

   The big question is whether last week's two-day surge in
oil prices was more than a brief bear-market rally.
   Iraq may help to supply the answer. Representatives of
Iraq and the United Nations are to meet in Vienna to discuss
terms of the U.N.-approved emergency sale of $1.6 billion in
Iraqi oil. The meeting was to begin today, but the U.N.
confirmed that the Iraqis had asked that it be postponed
until Wednesday.
   Any signal that Iraq is going to resume exports of oil
soon could drive prices down. So far, the Iraqi government
has flatly rejected the U.N. proposal. But there are
recurring reports that it may reconsider. It wants more
lenient terms, but it also may seek to export its oil from an
offshore terminal recently patched up in the Persian Gulf
rather than through Turkey. The U.N. may be receptive to some
changes. Still, "any progress in Vienna will depend very much
on the Iraqis," reported the Londonbased Energy Compass.
   Whatever the outcome of the meeting, oil traders and
analysts generally agree that price volatility appears to
have returned to oil markets after the relative stability of
recent months. The volatility was evident last week after the
price rally began in the U.S. on Tuesday, spilled over into
world oil markets on Thursday and then stalled on Friday. In
U.S. futures trading Friday, crude oil for February delivery
dropped 26 cents a barrel to settle at $19.23.

   Livestock and Meats
                                                                                                       

   Prices of hog futures contracts are expected to climb at
the start of trading today in the wake of a government report
showing a slowdown in the herd expansion.
   After the close Friday, the Agriculture Department
reported the U.S. hog population as of Dec. 1 was up 5% from
a year earlier. Traders had expected the government to report
as much as an 8% increase.
   Hog prices have been falling since the summer amid a rapid
herd expansion. Hogs ready for slaughter in the Midwest have
been selling for about 25% less than in the first week of
1991.
   The Agriculture Department survey also showed the U.S.
farmers didn't breed as many sows during the fall as they
originally planned -- but that the hog expansion is
continuing. On Dec. 1, the number of hogs kept by farmers for
breeding purposes and the number slated for slaughter were
both up 5% from a year earlier.
                                                                                                       

   Cocoa
                                                                                                       

   The futures market is expected to receive good support
from chocolate manufacturers this week, limiting the
potential for additional price declines, according to Judith
Ganes, tropical-commodity analyst at Merrill Lynch Futures in
New York.
   She adds that the market's softness is due more to weak
technical signals than to any change in cocoa's fundamentals.
"This year still looks like it will shape up as the first in
the past seven in which cocoa bean production has not kept
pace with cocoa bean consumption," Ms. Ganes says.
   Adding to selling pressure Friday were
higher-than-expected Ghana government purchases -- which
could portend more cocoa coming onto world markets -- but Ms.
Ganes says she expects these purchases to taper off. She adds
that Ghana cocoa production is expected to be down sharply
from a year earlier, which would support expectations of
lower purchase figures.
   "The market is due for a bounce," Ms. Ganes says.