Who's News:
   Hambrecht  Quist Chairman Resigns,
   Weeks After Firm Settles Fraud Case
   ----
   By Michael Siconolfi
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The departure of Mr. Macklin, 63, comes just weeks after
Hambrecht  Quist was rocked by a high-profile settlement in
a fraud case involving MiniScribe Corp.; Hambrecht  Quist
co-underwrote a 1987 bond offering for the failed disk-drive
maker.
   The shift also follows surgery that Mr. Macklin underwent
late last year to repair a damaged artery. Associates said
Mr. Macklin would likely have stayed on longer had it not
been for the operation.
   Mr. Macklin, who will step down April 30, shrugged off
such talk in an interview. The operation "was nothing but a
plumbing job -- it didn't affect the game at all," he said.
"I really feel good."
   Mr. Macklin, who is unsure of his future plans, joined
Hambrecht  Quist after 17 years as head of the National
Association of Securities Dealers. A Cleveland native, Mr.
Macklin spent 20 years with the brokerage firm of McDonald 
Co. before being named the NASD's president.
   The recent surgery wasn't his first major operation; in
1974, doctors replaced one of Mr. Macklin's hips, curing him
of an arthritic condition that had caused him to walk with a
limp.
   Hambrecht  Quist had been grooming Mr. Case for the top
spot someday. Before heading investment banking, he had
jointly run the company's mergers department and recently was
named chairman of the company's planning committee. He joined
the firm in 1981.
   Mr. Case helped expand Hambrecht  Quist's investment
banking area; associates say he was the main banker in a $200
million convertible-bond issue the firm jointly underwrote
recently for Quantum Corp. with Goldman, Sachs  Co.
Hambrecht  Quist declines to talk about the offering, which
is still in registration.
   Some Wall Street executives say the youthful Mr. Case
still needs more seasoning to comfortably fill the firm's top
spot. But Mr. Macklin, noting Mr. Case's management skills,
said: "He's got the credentials and he's ready."
   Mr. Hambrecht, 56, co-founded the firm with the late
George Quist in 1968. In a statement, he praised Mr. Macklin
for, among other things, slashing costs and bolstering the
aftermarket performance of the issues the company brought to
market.
   For his part, Mr. Hambrecht "has a very good feel for
deals -- he loves them, and that's what he's best at," said
William E. Mayer, former First Boston Corp. chief executive
who is slated to be named a board member. "The whole
organization is a pretty realistic one," Mr. Mayer said.
"There are no dreamers there."
   As part of the management shift, William Timken, an
executive vice president, is slated to be named to the new
post of vice chairman. Besides Mr. Mayer, the company is
expected to name Roger Killion, a sales and trading
executive, as a board member.
   Hambrecht  Quist has thrived amid the boom in
biotechnology offerings. So far this year, it is ranked No.
12 in underwriting initial public offerings, excluding
closed-end funds, with a 2.6% market share, according to
Securities Data Co.