Year-End Rally Tightened `Zero-Cost Collars'
   ----
   By Randall Smith and Barbara Donnelly
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
At the time, it seemed like a good idea. With the economy
sagging, managers could lock in gains on their stock
portfolios of 10% or so for the entire year, agreeing in
return to sacrifice any gains over 20%. In effect, these
money managers put a floor on their 1991 performance, but
also a ceiling.
   But Wall Street's zero-cost collar turned out to be
expensive. When the Federal Reserve slashed interest rates on
Dec. 20, the stock market soared again. And some managers
wearing the collar had their stocks sold out from under them
as the benchmark Standard  Poor's 500-stock index finished
the year with a hefty 26.3% price gain.
   Many traders say the collars gave the stock market an
extra kick upward just before the year ended, as managers and
Wall Street traders scrambled to buy back the stocks that had
been called away from them. They said such "short covering"
was particularly influential on Dec. 30, when the Dow Jones
Industrial Average rose 62.39 points.
   The collars, consisting of offsetting put and call options
on stocks and stock-index futures, were sold by such
blue-chip Wall Street firms as Morgan Stanley  Co., Merrill
Lynch  Co. and Goldman Sachs  Co., as well as banks such as
Bankers Trust New York Corp.
   Jamie Greenwald, a director of equity derivatives at
Merrill Lynch, estimates that zero-cost collars were sold
covering $8 billion to $15 billion in stocks last year; other
estimates run as high as $25 billion. Benjamin Weston,
managing director at Credit Suisse Financial Products, says
his firm alone arranged $4 billion in collars for customers
last year.
   Some money managers are relieved they didn't don the
collars. "We took a quick look at it and said, `This doesn't
make any sense,'" says Greg Strong, vice president-financial
services at Minnesota Mutual Life Insurance Co. in St. Paul,
Minn.
   "We looked at it in October, and we could have locked in
minimum and maximum returns from October to December," Mr.
Strong says. "But owning stocks was a risk we were prepared
to take in the long haul, so in the short run we decided,
`Why trade it off?'" Mr. Strong adds that such a collar would
have cost his stock portfolio several percentage points in
performance.
   Some traders say the whole episode is reminiscent of
portfolio insurance, a now-discredited hedging strategy to
sell stock or futures during a stock market decline to try to
avert losses. In 1987, portfolio insurance covered an
estimated $60 billion to $90 billion in stocks, and selling
linked to the strategy was blamed for worsening the October
stock-market crash.
   Because zero-cost collars helped trigger buying instead of
selling this time around, fewer traders and investors are
complaining. But the experience shows that even though the
use of portfolio insurance has diminished, the use of options
and futures by huge pension funds to hedge their stock
portfolios can still exert a powerful influence over the
entire stock market. Indeed, the Securities and Exchange
Commission yesterday blamed similar hedging strategies for
contributing to a 120.31-point drop in the Dow Jones
Industrial Average on Nov. 15.
   Some users defend the collars. Putnam Cos., a Boston money
manager, had zero-cost collars covering about $500 million of
stocks. Sumner Abramson, Putnam managing director, says that
while the collars meant sacrificing some of the firm's
potential stock market gains, owning the collars enabled
Putnam to buy some riskier stocks that scored heftier gains
during the year.
   Collars were also sold later in the year, with the market
up about 20%, so that managers could lock up even better
performances. Some investors "would rather forgo hitting the
grand slam to save hitting the two-run homer," says Dean
D'Onofrio, vice president of equity derivatives at Bankers
Trust.
   "It makes people sleep better" and "adds certainty to your
year-end performance," adds Michael Crooks, manager of equity
derivative sales at Salomon Inc.'s Salomon Brothers Inc.
unit, which also sold zero-cost collars.
   Here's how a typical zero-cost collar worked:
   In early June, with the stock market up 17%, Dayton Hudson
Corp. wanted to protect the gains on $25 million worth of
stocks in a company retirement fund.
   With the SP 500 index at 385, Dayton Hudson bought put
options through Bankers Trust, which gave the Minneapolis
retailer the right through the end of the year to sell $25
million in stocks at the equivalent of 352 on the SP 500.
Even if the stock market declined below that point, the put
insured that Dayton Hudson's stocks would have a minimum
return for the year of 10%.
   To finance the cost of the put, Dayton Hudson also sold a
call option through Bankers Trust, which gave the purchaser
of the option the right to buy $25 million of stock at the
equivalent of 419 on the SP index. Selling that call put a
30% ceiling on the total 1991 return on Dayton Hudson's
stocks, including dividends.
   But as the Christmas rally exploded, the SP -- which
finished the year at 417.09 -- was nearing the 30% return
cap. On Dec. 31, with the market just below the point at
which Dayton Hudson's stock would be sold, Dayton Hudson
repurchased the calls from Bankers Trust. That action
generated demand for stocks that could have pushed the market
up.
   In putting on the collar, "our primary focus was to
protect our employees on the downside," says Wayne Wicker,
manager of benefit investments at Dayton Hudson. "If we had
lost a little on the upside, we weren't quite as concerned."
As it happened, Mr. Wicker says the Dayton Hudson stocks just
barely avoided missing out on some gains.
   The calls on collars used by other institutional investors
had exercise prices between 395 and 425 on the SP. That
means many investors who used them would have either
sacrificed some of the market's gains, or else had to buy
back their stocks. But some of those investors escaped harm
because their calls expired before Dec. 20.
   Traders say Wall Street securities firms that marketed
zero-cost collars hedged the calls they bought from portfolio
managers by selling stock-index and stock futures.
Consequently, to pull off these hedges as the collars expired
in late December and early January, dealers went into the
market and bought futures, giving the stock market a big
lift. That buying came on top of purchases by money managers
who had sold calls that went "in the money" as the stock
market rose, meaning their stock was called away from them
and had to be replaced.
   Executives of some Wall Street firms that sold the collars
acknowledge that the year-end buying had some impact on the
market, but noted that fundamental factors like falling
interest rates were far more important.
   "The way the market has rallied over the past month, it's
fair to say that {such hedging} has contributed to the rise,"
says Salomon's Mr. Crooks. "It probably slightly increased
the angle of the incline."
   ---
   Craig Torres contributed to this article.