Marketing  Media:
   Philip Morris Plans
   Low-Tar Cigarette,
   The Merit Ultima
   ----
   By Kathleen Deveny
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
In the 12 months ended in October, Merit's share of the
U.S. cigarette market had slipped to 3.2% from 3.6%,
according to Marc Cohen, a tobacco analyst at Sanford C.
Bernstein  Co. Philip Morris, the nation's leading tobacco
company, introduced the low-tar Merit line in 1976.
   Philip Morris officials said the new cigarette is intended
to steal smokers from Carlton and Now, low-tar brands made,
respectively, by rivals American Brands Inc. and R.J.
Reynolds Tobacco Co., a unit of RJR Nabisco Inc. "Merit has
lost smokers over the years to both brands, and this new
product is a way to plug that hole," said David Dangoor,
senior vice president, marketing, at Philip Morris USA, the
company's U.S. tobacco division.
   Mr. Dangoor said his company is counting on an improved
filter design to make Merit Ultima easier to puff and more
flavorful -- two problem areas consumers often cite with very
light cigarettes. Ads for the new brand, created by the
Chicago-based Leo Burnett U.S.A. agency, stress the brand's
improved flavor at "the lowest levels of tar and nicotine."
   In fact, Merit Ultima will contain one milligram of tar
and 0.1 milligrams of nicotine-levels comparable to those
already found in Carlton and Now cigarettes. The lightest Now
cigarette currently available, for example, contains 0.5
milligrams of tar and 0.05 milligrams of nicotine. Merit
Ultra Lights, by comparison, contain five milligrams of tar
and 0.5 milligrams of nicotine.
   The roll-out of the new Merit spinoff appears to signal
that Philip Morris has backed off its efforts to launch
cigarettes using its much ballyhooed "de-nicotined"
technology. In 1989, Philip Morris unveiled a cigarette
called Next with the words "De-Nic" beneath the logo, which
it positioned much like decaf coffee. But Next, with 0.1
milligrams of nicotine but significantly higher levels of
tar, floundered in test market.
   Industry executives said Merit Ultima also reflects an
effort on the part of Philip Morris to shift its competitors'
focus back to the full-priced segment. American Brands in
particular has aggressively pushed its budget smokes in
recent years, including its Montclair and Misty brands.