Who's News:
   Earl Scheib Inc.
   Seen Giving Posts
   To Donald Scheib
Meanwhile, Mario Gabelli, whose Gabelli Asset Management
Co. owns 17.8% of Earl Scheib Inc.'s 4.6 million common
shares outstanding, said it is "very likely" the board will
move to put the company on the block to pay off estate taxes.
"There is a great deal this company could do," given the $7.5
million of cash on hand, the land value of its paint shops
and its non-existent long-term debt, he added.
   But Mr. Buchalter said that Donald Scheib wants to keep
the company and that the board would likely respect that.
   In active trading of 108,400 shares on the American Stock
Exchange yesterday, the company's stock rose 47.1% to close
at $12.50, up $4.
   Mr. Buchalter attributed the stock's rise to criticism
over the past two years of Earl Scheib's leadership of the
company and its 270 shops. "Stock buyers think there will be
a change in the operations and that it will be better. I'm
inclined to agree with them," Mr. Buchalter said.
   The criticism, he said, focused on Earl Scheib Inc.'s poor
economic performance over the past two years as Mr. Scheib
remained in charge of day-to-day operations. In June the
company slashed its yearly dividend in half to 18 cents a
share.
   "He refused to take realization of the economy -- of what
was happening to the auto-painting business," Mr. Buchalter
said. He noted that although paint jobs now last longer and
people therefore don't repaint their cars as often, "Earl
Scheib was slow in raising the prices" to cope with this. "He
always felt he had to have the lowest prices in the business
by a wide stretch," Mr. Buchalter said. In June, the company
did raise the basic price of its paint job to $119.95 from
$99.95.
   Mr. Buchalter said he expects third-quarter numbers, which
will be announced next Monday, to be unprofitable. He
declined to be specific, but said that the numbers will be
"an improvement" over the year ago period. For the third
quarter ended Jan 31, 1991, the company reported a net loss
of $1.9 million, or 42 cents a share, on sales of $9.9
million.