Salomon Fires
   Banking Analyst;
   Offer Isn't Matched
   ----
   By Michael Siconolfi
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Mr. Hanley, 47 years old, had been Salomon's most
prestigious stock analyst. For eight years in a row, he has
been ranked as the country's No. 1 money-center bank analyst
in Institutional Investor magazine's widely watched poll of
top research analysts.
   Mr. Hanley left with a blast at his former employer, which
has been returning to its roots as a big bond house. In an
interview, Mr. Hanley accused the Salomon Inc. unit -- under
the new leadership of interim Chairman Warren Buffett -- of
wavering in its commitment to stocks. Mr. Hanley said of
Salomon's equity group: "Right now, quite frankly, it is in
never-never land."
   Salomon quickly named a successor to Mr. Hanley, tapping
John Leonard, a 45-year-old Salomon director and a rising
star in the firm, as head of its four-member bank research
group. Salomon executives said the firm successfully
prevented the defection of Mr. Leonard and two other bank
analysts to First Boston, which had offered them jobs along
with Mr. Hanley. But one other analyst did leave Salomon to
join First Boston with Mr. Hanley.
   Salomon said yesterday's move "illustrates Salomon's
commitment both to the equity business and to service
financial institutions world-wide."
   Either way, the ouster is a vivid sign that the "new"
Salomon being forged by Mr. Buffett will take pains to hold
the line on big pay packages -- even for influential
executives such as Mr. Hanley. After assuming control of
Salomon in August in the wake of the firm's Treasury-auction
bidding scandal, Mr. Buffett has slashed Salomon's
compensation as part of a sweeping cost-cutting drive.
   Yesterday's events capped a tumultuous week for Mr. Hanley
and Salomon's stock group. After receiving a bid from First
Boston, Mr. Hanley had a series of meetings with top Salomon
executives, including Chief Operating Officer Deryck Maughan
and Richard Barrett, a managing director in the
financial-institutions group, people familiar with the firm
said.
   Some people at Salomon didn't believe Mr. Hanley would
actually go; they said he has been known in past years to use
offers from other securities firms as leverage in his pay
negotiations with Salomon. Instead, Salomon took the unusual
step of firing Mr. Hanley before he could formally defect.
   A Salomon spokesman declined to discuss details of Mr.
Hanley's departure. Mr. Hanley said: "You can characterize it
as a firing, but I wouldn't. I would characterize it as a
mutual parting of the ways," adding, "If I wanted to, I could
have resigned."
   Mr. Hanley said compensation wasn't a deciding factor in
his plans to go to the CS First Boston Inc. unit. Rather, he
said the move was prompted by First Boston's commitment to
stocks, particularly with the recent surge in stock
underwriting and trading.
   "As we look ahead at the next three to five years, banks
are going to need a lot of equity, and houses like First
Boston will be very well positioned" to get that business,
Mr. Hanley said.
   Overall, he said, the outlook for the banking industry
remains "very sluggish," adding: "I don't think there will be
any major uptrend here."
   As head of Salomon's bank-stock research group, Mr. Hanley
counseled the firm's institutional investors and
investment-banking clients on U.S. and foreign banking, as
well as supervising thrift and agency research.
   Colleagues say part of Mr. Hanley's success stemmed from
the hard analytical work prepared by Mr. Leonard, who is well
liked within Salomon. Mr. Leonard, as well as two other
members of Salomon's bank-research group -- Diane Glossman
and Jeffrey Naschek -- were offered positions at First Boston
but decided at the last moment to remain at Salomon, Salomon
executives said.
   It was significant that Salomon was able to retain Mr.
Leonard and much of its banking research team, some analysts
said. "You still have a group that is cohesive and
well-respected," said Steven Lazarus, a senior vice president
at Mariaschin  Co., an executive search firm. "Just because
your figurehead is gone doesn't take away from the fact that
the unit still remains a viable analytical force on the
Street."
   Mr. Hanley joins First Boston as a managing director and
head of bank research. The one member of his former team at
Salomon who moved to First Boston with him is Phillip Carter,
who will be a vice president in the firm's financial
institutions research group.
   At First Boston, bank analyst Eric Hemel will cover
financial agencies and savings and loans, and analyst David
Hilder will move to cover securities firms and
financial-services companies, First Boston said. Anthony
Smith will assist in money-center and regional bank coverage.
   ---
   Michael R. Sesit contributed to this article.