Labor Letter:
   A Special News Report on People
   And Their Jobs in Offices,
   Fields and Factories
   ----
   By Cathy Trost
At the Times Mirror Co.'s Baltimore Sun, 294 employees
chose an early retirement package that had been expected to
draw just 200 takers. What lured them away? A package that
offered, for example, employees with two to 14 years'
experience one year's pay and one year's health insurance
coverage. The Sun is hiring anew for "critical and
strategically important" jobs.
   Du Pont Co. revises its current plan after almost twice
the expected number grabbed a 1985 retirement offer.
                                                                                                       

   THE TIME VISE tightens as work hours increase, especially
for working parents.
   The squeeze on middle-class families is a hot issue in the
presidential campaign, and research by the Economic Policy
Institute adds new data to explain why working families are
so exhausted. Parents work an average 139 more hours a year
now than they did 20 years ago, with less time for leisure
and fun, says a report by Juliet Schor and Laura Leete-Guy.
   The situation is even worse for young parents. Working
mothers aged 18 to 39 put in 241 hours more per year, and
fathers in that bracket are working 189 more hours a year.
Overall, average annual work time rose 158 hours from 1969 to
1989, while paid time off shrank 15%. The frenzy is driven by
declining real wages and rising costs of health care and
housing.
                                                                                                       

   SEX HARASSMENT CLAIMS rise after Anita Hill's charges at
Thomas hearings.
   Charges that Clarence Thomas harassed Ms. Hill drew much
attention to the issue. General Motors Corp. reports a 50%
increase in claims since last summer's hearings due to
"increased awareness" of the issue (though it sees no
increase in lawsuits). Claims filed at the Boston office of
the Massachusetts Commission Against Discrimination tripled
in November.
   Sex harassment charges filed with the Equal Employment
Opportunity Commission increased to 1,244 in the first
quarter of 1992 from just 728 a year earlier. Employee
requests are up for training and prevention programs at Ford
Motor Co., Chrysler Corp. and Digital Equipment.
   Money demands also are rising, says San Francisco attorney
Victor Schachter. But, he says, employers balk at big
settlements and go to court.
                                                                                                       

   TAKE THE DAY OFF without pay, says Gannett Suburban
Newspapers. It requires salaried employees to take five
furlough days in the first quarter. Hourly employees will be
paid for a 35-hour week, down from the standard 37 1/2 hours.
Gannett, based in Westchester, N.Y., tries this plan to cut
costs and avoid layoffs.
                                                                                                       

   TAKE OFF A PAID DAY here, just because you are feeling
blue. That is the policy of Personal Wealth Systems Inc., a
small Jacksonville, Fla., direct-sales firm. Gary Haiser,
president and CEO, thinks mood swings are as catching as the
flu and as harmful to productivity.
                                                                                                       

   SEASONAL CHILD CARE: The accounting firm KPMG Peat Marwick
offers an onsite child-care center on Saturdays to help New
York employees handle the extra workload during tax-filing
season. The program is run by Caregivers on Call, an outside
agency. Fifty children participate, up 35% from last year.
                                                                                                       

   THE COST OF TREATING employees' adolescent dependents is
driving up employer expenditures on mental health and
substance abuse. In some companies, Towers, Perrin
consultants say, such costs account for half the total mental
health and substance-abuse benefit budget.
                                                                                                       

   THE TEMPORARY HELP BUSINESS is likely to rebound this
year.
   In a survey of 600 companies by TempForce Inc., a
temporary personnel firm, 37% plan staff increases for 1992,
and 48% don't see any change, while 15% expect cuts. Staffing
Industry Report, a trade publication, predicts that temporary
help hours will grow 4% to 8% in 1992, the first rise in
three years, as firms uncertain about a recovery "hedge their
hiring bets." Hours declined 6% to 8% last year.
   Salary increases will average just 4.4%, down from 5.5%
last year and the smallest increase since TempForce started
taking surveys in 1986. Entry-level salaries actually will
drop for some workers, such as data entry and computer
operators, programmers and accountants.
   There is bad news for permanent-placement agencies and
executivesearch firms: Business should remain weak this year.
                                                                                                       

   CHECKOFF: "A Pregnant CEO: In Whose Lifetime?" is the
topic of an upcoming conference panel sponsored by The
Conference Board and Families and Work Institute. . . .
American Airlines Inc., Continental Insurance Co. and
Hewlett-Packard Co. pick up 1992 Catalyst awards from the New
York research group for their leadership in promoting women.
. . . Upper respiratory ailments and back pain are the top
two reasons people miss work, says the American Academy of
Orthopedic Surgeons.