Economy:
   Global Slump May Hurt U.S. Recovery
   ---
   Growth in Exports Is Likely
   To Lose Steam in 1992
   ----
   By Rick Wartzman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Indeed, just as the domestic economy struggles to gain
momentum, growth appears stalled in many other nations. And
one likely result is that the level of U.S. exports -- one of
the few bright spots during the recent recession -- will slip
this year, hampering the turnaround at home.
   "It's certainly a serious concern," Michael Boskin,
President Bush's chief economist, said in an interview. He
noted that exports now account for a greater share of gross
domestic product than at any time since World War II. Thus,
"if something were to impede our export growth, it would slow
the economy down all the more." GDP is a measure of the total
output of goods and services produced in the U.S.
   Nariman Behravesh, president of Oxford Economics, a
Wynnewood, Pa., forecasting firm, figures that without
shipments abroad last year, U.S. companies would have lost an
additional 300,000 jobs. The link between exports and
employment, he explained, is why the "dicey" global economic
situation poses such "a risk to the U.S. recovery."
   Last year, exports were the driving force behind the tiny
bit of growth the U.S. economy managed to eke out: They
surged $39.7 billion during 1991 while GDP as a whole rose by
a scant $17.1 billion.
   Some analysts, including number crunchers at the National
Association of Manufacturers, maintain that the U.S. can keep
pace with the 7.6% gain in exports registered last year. But
others anticipate growth of only 4% or 5% in 1992. Such a
slowdown would add to the sense of lethargy that the economy
is exhibiting, even as it climbs out of a recession.
   Prompting particular worries are Japan, where the economy
is losing steam and the mood of the business community has
turned dour, and Germany, whose economy seems to be
contracting slightly. Together, these two nations account for
about 16% of the goods the U.S. ships abroad, according to
Commerce Department statistics.
   Elsewhere in Europe, the economies of Britain, Italy and
France are sluggish, as unemployment continues to plague much
of the region. Excluding Germany, the European Community
soaks up about 19% of U.S. exports.
   Canada, which as the U.S.'s largest trading partner
absorbs about 20% of U.S. exports, also is smarting. Canadian
manufacturers sounded alarms again last week after the
country's central bank raised a key lending rate in a bid to
support the Canadian dollar.
   "We're going to have to pull ourselves out of this
recession," said David Wyss, research director for
DRI/McGraw-Hill. "The rest of the world won't exactly hurt
us. But it won't help us a lot, either."
   Exacerbating the fear of a drop-off in U.S. exports in
recent weeks has been the rising dollar, which makes U.S.
products more expensive. In addition, political tensions
between Washington and some trading partners have heightened
lately, potentially complicating efforts to open foreign
markets. "We all extol competition, but nobody really seems
to want it," said Federal Reserve Gov. Wayne Angell.
   Moreover, if Japan encounters serious economic trouble at
home, it's likely to try to sell more products abroad, making
it even tougher for U.S. companies. "The real battleground
for exports is for the so-called third-country trade," said
Greg Fager, director of the Institute of International
Finance, which conducts research for some of the world's
major banks.
   The tendency for companies to gravitate toward robust
markets -- wherever they may be -- can, of course, benefit
U.S. companies as well. For instance, Cleveland-based
Reliance Electric Co. has sensed the economic slowdown in
Europe, where it ships parts for electric motor drives. But
instead of only selling locally, Reliance's customers are
finding they can hold their own by "shipping outside the
continent," where business has been steadier, according to
John Morley, the president of Reliance.
   For those most optimistic about exports, it's the
developing and newly industrialized countries that seem to
hold the most promise. Latin America, for example, has
"become increasingly important to the U.S. over the last
couple of years," said Michael Mussa, economic counselor at
the International Monetary Fund.
   At a recent hearing of Congress's Joint Economic
Committee, Fed Chairman Alan Greenspan pointed to the
strength of the Mexican economy when he predicted that total
U.S. exports will "creep up somewhat further" this year.
   Timing may be everything. If the U.S. can emerge from its
economic malaise quickly and forcefully enough, it may be
able to help the rest of the world reverse its decline. If
not, the rest of the world may help keep the U.S. mired down.
   Lord Corp.'s Mr. Hora said the company, which makes
adhesives for the auto industry, is banking on the first
scenario. "We think the U.S. will lead the way out," he said,
"and Europe will follow."