CNW Railroad Plans to Offer Shares,
   Use Proceeds to Buy Back Junk Debt
   ----
   By James P. Miller
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Blackstone's current 45% stake in the nation's
eighth-largest railroad would be trimmed to about 31% after
completion of the offering and a related recapitalization
aimed at cutting interest expenses.
   In a registration statement with the Securities and
Exchange Commission, Chicago  North Western said it expects
the shares to sell at $19-$21 each, in an offering it
anticipates will take place in March. None of the current
holders plans to sell shares.
   As part of the recap plan, the company will make a tender
offer for about $260 million, or about two-thirds of the
currently outstanding amount, of its senior subordinated
debentures due 2001.
   That news sent shares of the 15 1/2% "reset" debentures up
a solid 6 points Friday, to close at $119 in over-the-counter
trading. The company said it expects to pay about $1,200 plus
accrued interest for each $1,000 face amount of the
debentures.
   CNW also will seek to swap preferred stock held by Union
Pacific Corp. for nonvoting common shares.
   The holding company's Chicago  North Western
Transportation Co. unit operates about 5,800 miles of track
in nine Midwestern and Western states. CNW's principal line
between Chicago and Omaha, Neb., serves as the primary
connection -- through Chicago -- between Union Pacific's
East-West rail operations and the lines of major Eastern
railroads.
   Because of that symbiotic link, Union Pacific was also a
participant in the 1989 acquisition, and it currently holds a
26% stake in Chicago  North Western.
   Under the recapitalization plan, Union Pacific will invest
an additional $25 million, and swap its 1.4 million shares of
convertible preferred for 9.3 million common shares; that
exchange will keep its ownership stake essentially unchanged
after the offering.
   A spokesman said CNW believes that Interstate Commerce
Commission approval might be required if the shares were
issued as voting. "To avoid any conflict with that issue," he
said, the decision was made to "issue the shares in nonvoting
form," and allow Union Pacific to pursue, if it wishes, the
matter of whether the shares can be permitted to become
voting stock.
   Donaldson, Lufkin  Jenrette Securities Corp., which also
participated in the 1989 acquisition, will lead the
underwriters of the offering. Sale of the new shares, along
with Union Pacific's swap for common, will reduce DLJ's
nearly 16% stake in the railroad to about 10.7%.
   Members of the railroad's management, who also were
involved in the 1989 buy-out by which CNW escaped an unwanted
hostile bid, will hold an about 5% stake after the planned
offering.
   Under the plan, Chicago  North Western is also seeking to
replace its current bank credit facility with a new,
lower-interest pact for $700 million.
   The company said it will have to take a $58 million
after-tax charge in 1992 to cover costs associated with
terminating the old credit arrangement, and the debenture
buy-back.
   Through the first nine months, heavy interest outlays and
a charge for early payment of debt trimmed net income to
$11.6 million -- a loss of $9.27 a share after peferred
shareholders were paid -- on revenue of $732.5 million.
   But the company said it will take a $115 million pretax
charge in the fourth quarter, mainly to cover costs of a
recent agreement with unionized workers. That pact, which
permits the railroad to reduce crew size, is expected to cut
annual costs by $21 million.