Technology:
   Researchers Using
   Spider Gene in Bid
   For New Pesticide
   ---
   Deadly Gene Is Inserted Into
   A Virus Used to Infect
   Crop-Killing Caterpillars
   ----
   By Jerry E. Bishop
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Both the virus and the spider gene are harmless to plants
and animals other than caterpillars, the company said.
   The feat was announced by Natural Products Sciences Inc.
Chicago-based FMC has exclusive marketing rights to any
commercial product that exploits the research.
   FMC is planning to approach the U.S. Environmental
Protection Agency to see what data the agency will require to
approve a field test of the new pesticide, said William Van
Saun, director of discovery research at the company's
laboratories in Princeton, N.J. FMC is a major producer of
chemical pesticides but "we look at this as an opportunity to
get into agricultural pest control using biopesticides," Dr.
Van Saun said.
   The NPS researchers are the latest to report successful
first steps toward a new kind of biological insecticide that
scientists hope eventually will be harmless replacements for
the more hazardous chemical insecticides currently used.
Within the past seven months, three other research teams
reported they are pursuing the same idea of inserting a
poison gene into caterpillar-infecting viruses.
   All the researchers are using a virus that infects only
the larvae, or caterpillars, of a variety of moths. These
viruses kill the worms they infect but do so rather slowly,
taking as long as a week from infection to death, during
which time the insects can do a lot of damage to a crop.
   By adding a poison-making gene to the viruses, the
researchers hope to make insecticides that work faster than
the natural viruses. Their research differs mainly in the
type of toxin-making gene that is transplanted to the virus.
   An entomologist and a geneticist at the University of
Georgia in Athens reported last July that they had taken a
poison-producing gene from a mite that kills insects and
inserted the gene into the caterpillarinfecting virus. The
mite toxin causes muscle contraction and paralysis in a broad
range of insects but tests showed it was harmless to mice.
   Two other research teams reported they had taken a
toxin-making gene from a scorpion and put it into the
caterpillar-infecting virus, cutting the time to kill half
the bugs to 88 hours from 125 hours for the natural virus.
One research team to use the scorpion toxin gene is at the
NERC Institute of Virology and Environmental Microbiology in
Oxford, England. The other team is at the University of
California, Davis, which is working with researchers at a
unit of Ciba-Geigy Ltd. of Switzerland.