Marketing  Media:
   CP Forest Will Raise Newsprint Prices;
   Move Shocks Large Newspaper Chains
   ----
   By G. Pierre Goad
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Large U.S. newspaper chains, which are the paper mills'
largest major customers, were shocked by the latest price
rise. While an increase of more than $100 is considered
extraordinary, U.S. newspaper chains were also baffled by the
timing of the move. Early August is a typically slow period
when newspapers can tap the excess paper market to buy
supplies at a lower price. The chains have benefited in
recent years as the cost of paper has fallen or been flat.
   "There's never been a price rise {of} that much at one
time," said Homer Taylor, vice president of paper supply for
the Knight-Ridder Inc. chain, which buys 5% of its newsprint
from CP Forest. "There's a glut of newsprint. CP Forest seems
out of touch with their market place."
   CP Forest is the second major North American newsprint
maker to set a summer price increase. Earlier this month,
Stone Container Corp. of Chicago announced a similar
narrowing of its newsprint discounts, effective July 1. Mr.
Taylor said he expected other newsprint companies to follow
with price rises. But he also expects major newspaper
companies to fight the increase.
   Douglas H. McCorkindale, Gannett Co.'s vice chairman, said
there is about two million metric tons of excess newsprint
capacity on the market. CP Forest is one of close to 30
suppliers used by Gannett, the U.S. largest newspaper chain.
"Newspaper ad linage is improving but not dramatically, and
demand is still slight," he said. "There is no room to
increase prices by more than $100."
   There aren't any signs that demand is improving. The
Canadian Pulp and Paper Association said Canadian newsprint
production fell 14% in January from a year earlier as the
industry operated at 80% of capacity.
   The industry group said Canadian mills produced 716,000
metric tons of newsprint in January compared with 837,000
metric tons. The 80% operating rate was up from 74% in
December but down from 95% a year earlier.