Economy:
   Airlines' Bid to Raise Fares Another 2%
   Is Seen as Big Test of Consumer Demand
   ----
   By Asra Q. Nomani
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
"There's going to be an effort -- not necessarily a
successful one -- on the part of many industries to recover
prices," said Robert G. Dederick, chief economist at
Chicago's Northern Trust Co. He describes the airlines'
attempt to raise fares as -- "a probing effort. The airlines
seem to be a forerunner," he said.
   UAL Corp.'s United Airlines took the pricing lead,
announcing that higher domestic fares would go into effect
March 3. So far, only USAir Group Inc., Arlington, Va., and
Alaska Airlines, based in Seattle, are matching the
fare-increase proposal.
   The move could fail if, say, a financially ailing carrier
such as Trans World Airlines balks and uses its rivals'
planned price increase as an opportunity to cut fares and
promote itself as a discount carrier. Also, United probably
would abandon its plan if its major rivals, AMR's American
Airlines and Delta Air Lines, don't follow.
   It's far from certain that consumers will buy the proposed
increase. Getting people to fly appears to remain a big
hurdle. In a February survey of consumers by Leo J. Shapiro 
Associates, a Chicago research firm, 67% of respondents said
they aren't likely to buy air travel during the next 12
months. That compares with the 66% who said the same thing in
the year-ago month, and the 62% in February 1990, before the
effects of the recession and the Gulf war surfaced.
   Even if the fare-increase plan fails, Mr. Dederick said:
"Right now, there are hints of recovery, and this is one of
them."
   The airlines are moving at the first subtle signs of
rejuvenated demand. January systemwide U.S. airline passenger
traffic rose 1.4% from the slow year-earlier pace, in results
that include now-defunct Eastern Airlines and Midway
Airlines. Domestic traffic volume fell 3.1% in January
compared with the year-earlier period, but industry experts
are estimating a slight improvement in January domestic
yieldsthe amount of money revenue passengers pay for every
mile flown.
   James Cammisa, a Miami travel industry consultant, said
the attempt to boost fares "is a test of whether there's some
basic strength in air travel demand and whether we're seeing
a firming of traffic."
   For one thing, Mr. Cammisa adds, airline executives are
saying: "Look at those crazies on Wall Street. They're saying
a recovery is going to happen. So, let's try it out, and see
what happens."
   The airline industry is among the first to try and raise
prices because it was among the first to be battered. A year
ago, in the midst of the Persian Gulf conflict and the
recession, airlines were slashing fares, route schedules and
growth plans.
   A debt-ridden Eastern filed for Chapter 11 federal
bankruptcy-law protection against creditors in 1989. Since
then, amid the economic downturn, Eastern, Pan American World
Airways and Midway have shut down, and TWA, Continental
Airlines Holdings Inc. and America West Airlines are flying
under Chapter 11 shelter.
   Executives at United, American and Delta have partly
blamed their financial woes on Chapter 11 carriers and have
accused them of dumping prices. Airlines in Chapter 11 deny
the charge. Still, the industry incurred losses that totaled
about $6 billion in 1990 and 1991.
   Rakesh Gangwal, senior vice president of planning at
United, said: "Not all industries have suffered the way the
airline industry has in the last few years as a result of the
recession and Chapter 11 carriers."
   He added: "We are comfortable that the 2% increase is a
revenue positive action, and that it's a very modest and
tempered increase in light of the past performance of the
airline industry."
   Despite the nation's economic plight -- and, perhaps,
partly because of the consolidation prompted by it -- the
airline industry just might be one of the best positioned to
raise prices.
   Samuel Buttrick, an airline analyst at Kidder, Peabody 
Co. in New York, said the domestic airline industry has a
"favorable supply-demand equilibrium" as carriers divert
domestic capacity overseas and ailing lines such as Pan Am,
Eastern and Midway vanish. "They perceive that they can raise
fares," Mr. Buttrick said.