REVIEW  OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   Cable Ready
That's a real possibility. The Senate last month
overwhelmingly approved a reregulation of cable TV. This
could take the nation back not just to the local rate-setting
routines that held back new programs until the mid-1980s, but
to a kind of Radio Act of 1927 environment in which,
according to one cable operator, "the federal government is
going to tell us how quickly we have to answer our phones."
   The legislation, now in the House, draws impetus from rate
increases around the country that have sparked the ire of
viewers, even as sign-ups for cable continued apace. (More
than 60% of homes now have it.)
   The bill, however, has attracted the familiar Capitol Hill
caravan of special pleaders. Everybody's got a story to tell,
and some of them sound almost compelling. No doubt this is a
rough-and-tumble business, and likely to get more so.
   The networks are widely thought poised, should they be
allowed, to buy into cable and shift much if not all of their
programming off less lucrative "free" TV. Pay-per-view is
starting to suck the life out of basic cable, and any rate
caps surely will accelerate that. Someone will grab the holy
grail of high-definition TV. Most significantly, the
local-telephone companies, which a generation ago couldn't be
bothered, now eye jumping in, either feet first (as a common
carrier-leasing access) or head first (providing content as a
full-fledged cable operator). Either way, they'd cause a big
splash.
   Politically, the issue doesn't divide along clearly
partisan lines, though Congress, especially Democrats, tends
to favor restricting the big players (except of course for
government), while the White House thinks those same players
hold the key to rapid innovation that would benefit the
larger economy. The chairman of the Federal Communications
Commission, Alfred Sikes, would like to give the Bells a
toehold. (The visiting chief economist at the agency,
meanwhile, is Thomas Hazlett, who has written widely invoking
the First Amendment and antitrust on behalf of wide-open
cable competition.)
   Republican Senator Conrad Burns of Montana is author of a
bill permitting Bell entry, though some industry specialists
doubt the economics are ripe for the phone companies to get
in for a few years yet. Smaller players fear that when the
telcos do move, they'll be able to shift costs to local phone
users to undercut the competition. An understandable
apprehension, but the Bells are now themselves under
challenge on so many fronts, including some types of local
service, that the danger is probably overstated. Only the
dreamiest regulation fan would think it possible for a bunch
of twenty-something congressional staffers to devise some
scheme to direct the flow of all this entrepreneurial energy.
   Any time the government bestows special privileges on a
business, as it does with local wire, it becomes awfully
difficult to unravel the favors and "level the playing
field." The cable franchises and the phone companies
certainly enjoy a leg up, and were they to combine, most
likely in a joint venture, they would be formidable.
   Yet "monopoly" becomes a less certain concept in an
industry where individual consumers and entrepreneurs can act
so nimbly. Even the simple competition posed today by the
video-rental market is "a killer," according to one cable
executive. Exclusive franchises, objectionable as they are,
haven't spared cable companies from looking over their
shoulders and spending like mad on technological improvements
destined to bring remarkable new options in the years just
ahead. In the quicksilver world of telecommunications, the
complacent, stupid or slow will not be tolerated long, even
with the state behind them.
   Innovation, as economist Joseph Schumpeter was foremost in
describing, is littered with the carcasses of the worthy and
unworthy alike. It is hard to imagine that the federal
government can adjudicate this process in any manner but to
drag out the pain and delay the unfolding of a wondrous
technological epoch.