International:
   Bush Offers a Further $645 Million
   To Help Former Soviet Republics
   ---
   All Is to Be `Humanitarian,'
   Putting the U.S.'s Total
   At More Than $5 Billion
   ----
   By Gerald F. Seib
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Congress must approve the proposed new assistance, and
there is a good chance lawmakers will go along. Despite a
growing antipathy toward foreign aid in this election year,
humanitarian assistance designed to help ensure stability in
the former Soviet Union remains generally popular on Capitol
Hill.
   The new aid may help ease complaints from America's allies
that the two-day international aid conference here is a
grandstanding ploy designed to muffle complaints from Europe
that the U.S. isn't pulling its weight in helping former
Soviet republics.
   U.S. and European officials hope that the loose
organization that emerges from the conference can iron out
glitches and inefficiencies in the aid effort this year and
perhaps for a year or two more. British officials said the
conference participants agreed that they wouldn't set up a
big, new international bureaucracy to handle Soviet aid.
   German Foreign Minister Hans-Dietrich Genscher said last
night that there will be a follow-up conference later this
year in Lisbon to continue aid coordination. He also
announced that representatives from the Washington conference
will travel to former Soviet republics to brief leaders there
on Feb. 1.
   In public comments, European leaders generally have been
polite about the two-day conference, though they privately
have questioned American motives. In one apparent sign of
unhappiness, France, which has been particularly blunt in
questioning America's role, didn't send its foreign minister
to lead its delegation to the conference, as did most
nations. France instead dispatched a lower-ranking official.
   Despite Mr. Bush's aid announcement, American officials
insist that their goal in holding the conference isn't to pry
more money out of the countries attending. Instead, the Bush
administration's strategy is to form a loose, American-guided
coalition, much like the one stitched together for last
year's war against Iraq, to ensure that food and medical
shortages don't spark instability in the former Soviet
republics.
   Secretary of State James Baker specifically harkened back
to the Gulf War in his remarks to the conference. "One year
and one week ago today, a world-wide coalition launched a
successful battle against naked aggression," Mr. Baker said.
"Today, we join together to form a new coalition to fight a
new battle, one with an equally worthy and important cause."
The effort epitomizes President Bush's vision for a "new
world order," in which the U.S. helps form unconventional and
shifting alliances to handle certain world problems.
   In particular, the U.S. goal is to induce greater
involvement by wealthy Persian Gulf oil states and Japan,
which have money to spare but which historically haven't had
much of a role in Eastern Europe and the Soviet Union.
   The former Soviet republics, which have formed a loose
grouping called the Commonwealth of Independent States,
weren't invited to send representatives to the conference.
But Russian leader Boris Yeltsin made his presence felt,
anyway, by sending a letter that was read at the opening
session.
   Mr. Yeltsin sought to justify more humanitarian aid by
declaring that "we have opted irrevocably for creating a
civilized, democratic state in which an individual is the
supreme value and where his or her interests constitute the
basis of the state's foreign and domestic policies. However,
one has to pay dearly for past mistakes and delusions."
   The new American aid pledged yesterday by Mr. Bush would
include $500 million for what the State Department called a
"new, special humanitarian/technical assistance account" that
will be used to meet special needs "as they arise." Of the
rest, $85 million would go for technical assistance to be
used for such tasks as improving transportation and
distribution systems; $25 million for medical aid; $20
million for training on private farms and in agricultural
businesses; and $15 million for general developmental
assistance.
   In an unusual twist, three East European nations appealed
to the conference to funnel assistance to former Soviet
republics through them. The governments of Czechoslovakia,
Hungary and Poland issued a statement saying they have a
unique ability to give technical help to their allies in the
former Soviet Union, and that letting them carry out aid
projects would "stabilize democracies in the countries of
Central Europe."