Rite Aid Lifts Bid
   For Revco on Eve
   Of Creditors' Vote
   ----
   By Gabriella Stern
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Tomorrow is the deadline for creditors to vote on three
rival reorganization plans for Revco, which has been in
bankruptcy court proceedings for 3 1/2 years. The other
offers are from Jack Eckerd Corp., a closely held Clearwater,
Fla., retailer and drugstore operator which bid $996 million
in notes and debentures, and a Revco-backed creditor group,
which bid $875 million in debt and equity. Some analysts have
cautioned, however, that the three bids aren't comparable,
and that the Rite Aid offer may win shareholder approval
despite its lower apparent amount.
   Under Rite Aid's new plan, Revco's banks will receive an
additional $12 million in cash, bringing their total
repayment to $260.5 million, "or 85 cents on the dollar," Mr.
Grass said.
   The new plan gives subordinated debenture holders an
additional $6.5 million in cash, bringing their total to
$56.5 million.
   Under the previous and the new plans subordinated debt
holders would receive 4,543,000 Rite Aid shares. Under the
new plan, however, subordinated debt holders may sell back
their shares for $24.50 apiece at any time during 1993.
   In New York Stock Exchange composite trading Tuesday, Rite
Aid shares closed at $21.50, unchanged.
   Rite Aid submitted the revised plan to U.S. Bankruptcy
Court in Akron, Ohio, Tuesday afternoon. The court is
scheduled to confirm the creditors' vote Jan. 8.
   Mr. Grass said Rite Aid, which receives a daily tabulation
of the creditors' votes, believes "a lot of the sophisticated
investors and arbitragers are waiting to vote until Thursday
or Friday. We're putting out a plan we believe will muster
their support."
   Revco, based in Twinsburg, Ohio, declined to comment on
Rite Aid's move. Its parent company is Anac Holding Corp.
   Chriss Street of Seidler Amdec Securities in Los Angeles,
who trades distressed debt securities, said the move "puts
Rite Aid very close to acquiring Revco. We believe they'll
eventually carry the day over the creditors' plan."