Year-End Review of Stock Markets:
   Cyclical Stocks Could Be the Right Way
   To Ride to New Highs in 1992
   ---
   Rally Late in 1991 Still Leaves These Issues
   Inexpensive Compared With Many Others
   ----
   By John R. Dorfman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Even after the spirited year-end rally, cyclical stocks
are inexpensive compared with many others. Some stocks, such
as biotechnology stocks, are selling at "very high values,
mania values," says David Dreman, managing partner of Dreman
Value Management in New York. But "the cyclicals are pretty
cheap."
   People who worry too much about the economy or the Dow
Jones Industrial Average "will miss a great year in
individual stocks," says James H. Morgan, president of
Interstate/Johnson Lane, a regional brokerage in Charlotte,
N.C.
   Mr. Morgan's selections in this space a year ago rose
51.1% (including dividends) through Dec. 10. His biggest
gains were 151% in Home Depot Inc. and 96.6% in Healthdyne
Inc. TW Holdings lost 4%, but Mr. Morgan recommends it again
this year.
   TW has $4 billion in sales from its Denny's and Quincy's
Family Steakhouse restaurants, Canteen food service
operation, and Hardee's restaurant franchises, but it has
been posting losses. TW has about $1 billion in debt at
floating interest rates, which lately have declined. Given
"even a mild recovery," Mr. Morgan thinks TW will be
profitable by the fourth quarter.
   Mr. Morgan and his colleagues think a major trend will be
"outsourcing" of some operations by big corporations. This
would help SCI Systems, which makes electronics and computer
parts, including the newfangled double-sided circuit boards.
It is "making money in spite of punk conditions," he says.
Similarly, Intermet, a large foundry, serves the depressed
auto industry, yet should show a dime-a-share profit for
1991. In a good year, Mr. Morgan says it could earn $1.50 a
share. The stock ended the year at $7.375.
   Interstate/Johnson Lane's researchers are sweet on
Ruddick, a neighbor in Charlotte. The small conglomerate gets
most of its revenue from the grocery chain Harris Teeter. "If
the company were called Harris Teeter," the stock price would
be higher, says Mr. Morgan, who figures that investors get
the other operations (American & Efird industrial sewing
thread and Jordan Graphics) essentially for free.
   Finally, Mr. Morgan likes Durr-Fillauer, a medical
supplies distributor he believes will grow 20% a year, partly
through acquisitions that the company can fund with its
"great balance sheet."
   Mr. Dreman, whose picks in this space a year ago rose
35.4%, favors a quintet of battered stocks for the new year.
"Woolworth has really been knocked down" as retail sales have
been weak not only in the U.S. but also in Germany and
Canada, two other countries where Woolworth has a big
presence. Now that the stock has fallen from $36 to about
$26.50, Mr. Dreman thinks it's a bargain.
   Compaq Computer was hit even harder, falling from $74.25
to a recent $26.375. "There is tremendous price-cutting" in
the personal-computer industry, Mr. Dreman says, and yet
"Compaq is still making a little money." He thinks it has
"the potential of surprising with earnings on the upside."
   In a daring pick, Mr. Dreman puts in a good word for
Columbia Gas System, which is operating under Chapter 11 of
the Bankruptcy Code. Within a year Mr. Dreman says he thinks
Columbia can settle its disputes with suppliers over
long-term contracts under which Columbia was obligated to pay
a high price for gas it distributes.
   Rounding out his list are Scott Paper, "another cyclical
that's been beaten up," and American Express, which he says
has tightened up standards for issuing its Optima credit card
and "plugged most of the holes" at its Shearson Lehman
Brothers brokerage house.
   Alfred Goldman, director of technical market analysis for
A.G. Edwards & Sons Inc. in St. Louis says he would wait for
a market pullback in January or February before buying
stocks. "The dramatic runup in the market since Alan
Greenspan played Santa Claus has overcelebrated" the eventual
recovery of economies in the U.S. and abroad, he says. "The
Christmas eggnog is going to lead into a New Year's
hangover."
   As the economy recovers, he thinks AMR, parent of American
Airlines, will soar. "The contraction in the industry leaves
us with close to a monopoly," he says. As a technical
analyst, Mr. Goldman likes AMR's "on-balance volume." Trading
volume has been higher when the stock has been rising than
when it has been falling.
   The same indicator draws him to CML Group, which makes
Nordic track exercise equipment. CML is also a retailer,
selling men's and women's clothes, exercise equipment,
nature-related gifts, craft kits and collectibles.
   Mr. Goldman calls Genzyme "one of the few biotechs with
real earnings. He isn't fazed that the stock, $58.75 at year
end, was recently selling for more than 200 times the past
four quarters' earnings, because he expects the earnings to
skyrocket.
   To complete his list, Mr. Goldman selects National Health
Laboratories ("one of the groups I want to be in is health
care") and Waste Management ("an industry that I think is
very attractive both here and in Europe").
   Finally, the MacroWorld computer program gets its picks.
The program is sold by Black River Systems Corp. in
Winston-Salem, N.C. Douglas Graham, president, says the
program searches reams of economic data to create a formula
for the normal price of a stock. If the actual price is well
below the formula price, the stock is a buy.
   Here's what's really unusual: The factors aren't
company-specific items like earnings or dividends. For
example, the formula for Compaq (the program's top choice for
1992) is the reciprocal of the Swedish exchange rate, plus a
constant times the price of corn futures, minus another
constant times U.S. retail sales. Why would corn futures and
the value of the Swedish krona predict the value of Compaq?
Mr. Graham doesn't know, but says "through the years {the
program} has done quite well with Compaq. It tends to ride up
and down quite a bit."
   MacroWorld is keen on Wells Fargo, which is depressed on
fears about the U.S. banking system in general and California
real estate in particular. The microcircuits are also drawn
to Edison Brothers Stores, AST Research, and Lukens. For most
of these stocks, MacroWorld predicts a 15%-25% rise, with at
least a 70% probability that the stock will advance in 1992.
   ---
                    Picks for the New Year
                                                                                                       

   James H. Morgan is president of interstate/Johnson Lane, a
regional brokerage house in Charlotte, N.C.
                                                                                                       

                          1992 PICKS
                                                                                                       

                     Durr-Fillauer Medical
                       Intermet Ruddick
                          SCI Systems
                          TW Holdings
                                                                                                       

   David Dreman is a managing partner with Dreman Value
Management in New York.
                                                                                                       

                          1992 PICKS
                                                                                                       


                         Columbia Gas
                        Compaq Computer
                          Scott Paper
                           Woolworth
                                                                                                       

   Alfred Goldman is director of technical market analysis at
A.G. Edwards & Sons, Inc. in St. Louis.
                                                                                                       

                          1992 PICKS
                                                                                                       

                              AMR
                           CML Group
                            Genzyme
                   National Health Laboratories
                         Waste Management
                                                                                                       

   MacroWorld is a computer produced by Black River Systems
Corp. in Winston-Salem, N.C.
                                                                                                       

                           1992 PICKS
                                                                                                       

                          AST Research
                         Compaq Computer
                      Edison Brothers Stores
                             Lukens
                           Wells Fargo
   ---
                How Last Year's Stock Pickers Did
                                                                                                       

 INVESTOR/
   AFFILIATION                                  PERFORMANCE*
                                                                                                       

 James H. Morgan
   Interstate/Johnson Lane                          51.1%
                                                                                                       

 David Dreman
   Dreman Value Management                          35.4
                                                                                                       

 Scott Black
   Delphi Management                                17.8
                                                                                                       

 Robert Farrell
   Merrill Lynch & Co.                              15.4
                                                                                                       

   *Dec. 31, 1990, through Dec. 10, 1991. During this period,
the S&P-500 Stock Index rose 18.1%. All figures include
dividends.