Law -- Legal Beat:
   Head of Failed Texas SL
   Receives 20-Year Prison Sentence
   ----
   By Christi Harlan and Wade Lambert
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
The sentences, handed down by federal Judge Lucius Bunton,
capped one of the longest investigations and prosecutions of
thrift fraud in Texas.
   Empire Savings collapsed in March 1984 after two years as
the leading lender in a scheme that poured $750 million into
land acquisitions and condominium developments along
Interstate 30, east of Dallas. The loans, based on fraudulent
appraisals and borrowers' falsified financial statements, led
to the failures of at least five thrifts.
   All of the defendants are expected to appeal their
convictions. The sentences, which ranked among the heaviest
in savings and loan cases, were described as "fair" by lead
prosecutor Terry Hart, an assistant U.S. attorney from
Dallas.
   Mr. Faulkner was convicted of 42 charges related to the
scheme. A one-time house-painter, Mr. Faulkner and his
partner, Mr. Toler, amassed hundreds of acres of land along
Interstate 30 and resold them at inflated prices to about 250
buyers, most of whom later defaulted on their inflated loans.
   Mr. Toler, who once served as mayor of the Dallas suburb
of Garland, where many of the condominium developments were
located, was convicted of 41 charges. Messrs. Toler and
Faulkner used some of the proceeds from their real estate
deals to help Mr. Blain acquire control of Empire Savings in
1982. Mr. Blain, who is now working as a window washer in Los
Angeles, was convicted of 34 charges.
   Mr. Formann, who worked as a federal thrift examiner and
as chairman of another now-defunct thrift before becoming a
real estate appraiser, was convicted of 21 charges. He was
one of three Dallas-area appraisers accused of assigning
false values to land to support the inflated loans. The
condominium financing scheme attracted the attention of
federal investigators in late 1983, and the first of more
than 100 indictments was returned in 1985 by a federal grand
jury in Dallas.
   Mr. Blain, a former director of the Federal Home Loan Bank
that covered Texas thrifts, and six co-defendants were
indicted in October 1987. Their first trial, in 1989, ended
with a hung jury. Messrs. Blain, Faulkner, Toler and Formann
went on trial in Midland last year, and three other
co-defendants are still awaiting trial in Dallas.
   Messrs. Faulkner, Toler and Blain were convicted of
violating the federal anti-racketeering law, among the other
charges, and the jury found that they should forfeit a total
of $100 million in proceeds from the loan scheme. Their
lawyers asked Judge Bunton to reverse the racketeering
convictions, but the judge declined.
   ---
   THIEVES FACE stiffer sentences for refusing to turn over
stolen goods.
   A judge may increase the prison sentence that a convict
faces if the judge finds the defendant has hidden the fruits
of the crime, the federal appeals court in Manhattan ruled.
   The Second U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals ruled that judges
in such cases aren't bound by the U.S. sentencing guidelines,
which set a range of penalties depending on the crime and the
defendant's background. The court said the guidelines, which
took effect in November 1987, failed to take such situations
into account.
   In the case before the court, three men were convicted of
stealing $3.7 million from customers of their own armored-car
company. In giving the defendants substantially longer prison
sentences than the guidelines provided, the trial judge said
the men "obviously have this money stashed someplace where
they at least expect it is beyond the reach of the government
or those who were deprived of the money."
   The defendants had argued that they were being penalized
for refusing to incriminate themselves. But the appeals court
said that turning over the allegedly stolen money wouldn't
have been incriminating because it wouldn't have implicated
the men in any crimes other than those of which they were
convicted. The court said the return of the money wouldn't
have undermined the defendants' claim of innocence on appeal.
   "We don't believe the jail cell should be a way station on
the road to ill-gotten gains," the appellate panel said.
   While upholding the ability of trial judges to increase
penalties in such cases, the appeals court sent this
particular case back to the trial judge for resentencing. The
court said the trial judge must consider actual evidence of
whether or not the defendants hid the money. "While we
suspect that {the trial judge} is correct in thinking that
defendants indeed have control over the money, appellants
should have the opportunity to present evidence indicating
otherwise," the appeals court said.
   Attorneys for the three defendants couldn't be reached for
comment.
   (U.S. vs. Bryser et al., Second U.S. Circuit Court of
Appeals, Manhattan, 911220)
   ---
   BAR APPLICATION can't ask mental health history, group
claims.
   The 1990 Americans with Disabilities Act prohibits
employers from quizzing applicants about mental problems,
argues the Mental Health Law Project, an advocacy group in
Washington. The group wants the D.C. Court of Appeals, which
licenses bar members in the district, to stop asking
applicants whether they have ever been treated for mental,
emotional or nervous disorders. Several bar applicants
complained to the law project about the question, said
Executive Director Leonard S. Rubenstein. The group's
concerns were first reported in Legal Times, a trade journal.
   "You can't predict a person's conduct, except in the most
extreme cases, from their psychiatric records," Mr.
Rubenstein said. He said the National Conference of Bar
Examiners, a Chicago group that handles applications for a
number of bars including Washington's, would be better off
interviewing an applicant's friends and associates about
whether the person is honest and responsible.
   National Conference officials wouldn't comment, but
supporters of questioning applicants about their mental
health said the questions are used only as a tool. "We would
never use a mental illness as a reason for not letting
someone in," said Jim Newes, character and fitness
administrator for the Minnesota Board of Law Examiners. But
knowing about mental problems helps build a complete picture
of an applicant, supporters said.
   Judith Rogers, chief judge of the D.C. appeals court, will
receive a recommendation from the court's admissions
committee on how to deal with the issue later this month. The
part of the disability law dealing with questions on
applications goes into effect this summer.
   Lawyers who specialize in the disability act were divided
about whether the law applies to licensing agencies, which
are not specifically mentioned in the act. Paul E. Starkman,
a partner at Arnstein  Lehr in Chicago, said the law covers
state and local governments, which would most likely include
the appeals court. But Tom Piekara, an associate in the New
York law firm Jackson, Lewis, Schnitzler  Krupman, noted
that the law applies mainly to employers.
   State licensing agencies for physicians, real estate
agents, teachers and other professionals also would be
affected if bar associations are. It is unclear how many
currently inquire about applicants' mental health records,
because each state does its own licensing.
   ---
   INTERNATIONAL COURT is proposed for drug cases and other
crimes.
   A section of the New York State Bar Association issued a
report calling for the creation of the court, arguing that
recent changes in world politics have made such a court more
feasible and necessary. Currently there are international
legal forums to deal with disputes between nations, but there
is no court to hear international criminal cases.
   The bar association's Commercial and Federal Litigation
Section recommended that the proposed court begin by focusing
on narrow issues that are widely recognized as crimes in
international treaties, such as hijacking, piracy and drug
trafficking.
   Similar proposals have failed over the years. But the bar
section's chairman, Mark H. Alcott, of Paul, Weiss, Rifkind,
Wharton  Garrison, said that the disintegration of the
Soviet Union and other former Soviet bloc countries "has
created a level of instability that might make this kind of
institution more desirable."
   Mr. Alcott added, "We do not fail to recognize that there
are going to be a lot of problems" in setting up such a
court. For instance, the court would have to set standards
for the rights of defendants, which differ in various
countries' court systems.
   James P. Linn, a defense attorney in Oklahoma City who has
represented such clients as Saudi financier Adnan Khashoggi
and Imelda Marcos, former first lady of the Philippines, said
that safeguarding defendants' rights would be a major hurdle.
"I would think that most American lawyers would be opposed,"
he said, to a system that didn't provide a jury trial and
other protections guaranteed in the U.S.