Prudential Securities Seeks New Identity
   While Hoping to Sidestep '80s Pitfalls
   ----
   By Michael Siconolfi and William Power
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
"Our history has always been very up and down," said
Hardwick Simmons, Prudential Securities' 51-year-old
president and chief executive, in his first interview since
taking over in May. Mr. Simmons said of the company's recent
success: "What we have to prove to ourselves and to
competitors is that it wasn't just a flash in the pan. . . .
We don't want to crow about anything" yet.
   But even as it tries to carve out a new identity,
Prudential Securities seems to be revisiting some of the
areas that led to big losses in the 1980s and contributed to
Mr. Ball's ouster. The company already is talking about
possibly selling limited partnerships again, despite a raft
of investor lawsuits triggered by its past plunge into
marketing real estate and other partnerships.
   And after retreating from investment banking in late 1990,
following Mr. Ball's ill-fated plunge in the area, Prudential
Securities now is looking to beef up its investment banking
operations; it plans to increase its current staff of 70
investment bankers about 40% in the next two to three years.
   Mr. Simmons has tried to assure Prudential Securities'
work force that there aren't other shoes to drop. "What we
really wanted to do in '91 -- and thank God, the gods allowed
-- is really to clean ourselves up so we can begin in '92 . .
. on the same footing as our competitors."
   The true test will come when the stock market slips. Says
George McGough, a former top Prudential Securities executive
and current chairman of Sutro  Co., a small San Francisco
broker: "Good market volume makes us all look good, but we'll
find out in tough times whether there's been a turnaround" at
Prudential Securities.
   At least the red ink has stopped. After incurring a $259
million loss in 1990, Prudential Securities posted 1991
record profits of $201 million -- far outpacing its previous
high of $111 million, set in 1988. Last year's performance
was buoyed by the surging stock market.
   Prudential Securities' profits would have been even more
substantial if not for more than $150 million in reserves the
company took last year for some missteps when it did business
as Prudential-Bache Securities Inc.; these included legal
costs from lawsuits involving soured partnerships and
expenses from getting out of the Canadian brokerage business,
risk arbitrage and merchant banking. In 1992, Prudential
Securities said it hopes to earn $125 million after taking an
estimated $50 million in additional reserves.
   One goal that continues to elude Prudential Securities is
generating the synergy it has long hoped for in selling
financial products with its parent Prudential Insurance. The
big mutual insurer bought the brokerage company in 1981
hoping to create a financial supermarket in which both
companies would sell each other's products, from insurance
policies to stocks and bonds.
   Even though Prudential Insurance manages $39 billion in
funds for Prudential Securities customers, its insurance
agents referred a relatively puny $25 million in trading
commissions to the brokerage company last year.
   One of the biggest hurdles facing Prudential Securities is
its size. It isn't big enough to compete on the same level
as, say, giant Merrill Lynch  Co., the nation's biggest
brokerage company with more than 10,000 brokers. As a result,
Prudential Securities hopes to snare underwriting and other
business from "middle-market," or midsized, corporations.
   Mr. Simmons emphasized that Prudential Securities has no
ambitions to become an investment-banking force; investment
banking generates less than 10% of the company's revenue.
Rather, Mr. Simmons said Prudential Securities wants to
"refocus" its investment-banking operations on middle-market
companies to support Prudential's big broker network. "One
thing I've learned is that you can't be a great distributor
without a great factory beneath you" to create stock and bond
offerings to sell to investors, he said.
   Prudential Securities has a ways to go. It ranked No. 10
in underwriting fees last year, earning just $102.3 million,
according to IDD Information Services. Still, "our most
important job is to consistently create high-quality product"
for the firm's sales force, said Howard A. "Woody" Knight, an
old friend of Mr. Simmons who was hired last year to direct
Prudential Securities' corporate strategy.
   One form of those "home-cooked" products could soon be
limited partnerships, though the company hasn't yet sold any
new ones. "I think the partnership, per se, will come back,"
Mr. Simmons said. "There may be real estate and other areas
that should be structured and sold as partnerships," he said,
"but the structure will be vastly different."
   Mr. Simmons, a veteran brokerage executive who ran
Shearson Lehman Brothers Inc.'s brokerage network in the
1980s, has taken pains to craft a new team in a bid to cut
ties to past management, particularly Mr. Ball. Besides
hiring Mr. Knight, Mr. Simmons brought over brokerage veteran
George Murray from Shearson to run Prudential Securities'
brokerage operations.
   The outspoken Mr. Ball was known on Wall Street for his
quirky ways; he inundated his troops with endless memos on a
wide range of topics. Mr. Simmons, on the other hand, has
been much more measured with Prudential Securities brokers,
and has taken pains to keep a low profile with the media in
the past year.
   Mr. Ball, who is currently a consultant for the J. W.
Seligman  Co. money management company, won't discuss his
former employer, other than to say: "Wick is an effective
executive and is executing the firm's game plan well."
   Even with the company's success, it remains to be seen how
well the new team will work together. "Turf wars" continue to
rage between some departments and there is open discord at
the operating committee levels, said some Prudential
Securities employees.
   Nevertheless, Prudential Securities executives remain
upbeat that the company is on course again. "We'd be totally
myopic to believe our restructuring was the sole contributor
to profitability; much of it is simply markets," said Arthur
H. Burton Jr., a Prudential Securities vice chairman.
   "On the other hand, I'd like to think the restructuring
has put us in the position so when the markets go south,
we'll still make money," Mr. Burton said.