REVIEW  OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   The Stabfund
The idea of the stabilization fund, peddled to Moscow by
some Western economists, is to persuade the foreign-exchange
markets, on the theory that this would stabilize the internal
markets. So let's review the basics of how the
foreign-exchange markets work, how exchange rates are
determined. The most modern view is called the monetary
approach to the balance of payments.
   The value of the dollar and the ruble will depend on the
supply of dollars and the supply of rubles. If the supply of
rubles grows faster than the supply of dollars, the ruble
will fall in its exchange rate with the dollar. If you want
the ruble to rise, you create fewer of them, or even burn
some. Using a "stabilization fund" to buy up rubles takes
them out of circulation and, assuming other things are
constant, reduces the ruble supply. But you really don't need
an IMF loan to reduce the supply of rubles; you can just
print fewer of them.
   This oversimplifies, admittedly, since the demand for
currencies can also fluctuate. If buyers and sellers pass
rubles like hot potatoes and hold every dollar they get their
hands on, the ruble will fall even if the supply of each
currency is held constant. Clearly this has already been
going on with the ruble, and some proponents of the
stabilization fund think of it as a symbolic club in the
closet that will immediately revive the demand for rubles and
boost their exchange rate.
   This is not the way it usually works, even in more
developed monetary systems. The way it usually works is that
the Bank of Carumba has been printing too many glasbeads, and
when the glasbead falls in the foreign-exchange market it
borrows dollars for "support operations." That is, it uses
the dollars to buy glasbeads in the foreign-exchange markets;
but to replace the glasbeads it just bought, it prints up
some more. Soon the dollars are gone, and Carumba bank has
just as many glasbeads and a bigger dollar debt, and the
glasbead falls some more.
   Given the near universality of this experience,
foreign-exchange traders the world over are licking their
chops over the ruble-stabilization fund. What they see is a
free lunch at the expense of the IMF, which is to say, the
taxpayers of the developed countries. There is even talk of
pledging Russian treasures, the state diamonds or the
contents of the Hermitage, toward a flyer on the ruble.
   To defend the ruble, the first thing that has to be done
is to get some control over the ruble supply. Russia has no
banking system or bond market, and thus cannot have open
market operations or other modern methods of monetary
control; the Russians can't tell you how many rubles there
are. The only control of their supply is the switch on the
printing press, and the Russians can't even tell you how many
printing press there are. (Two in Russia, but some of the
other republics may also be printing rubles.) The first thing
Mr. Yeltsin and his advisers need to do is somehow
rationalize this process, and if they really succeed in
controlling the presses they won't need a stabilization fund.
   If they can't control the supply of rubles, the
stabilization fund is absolutely guaranteed to vanish into
the maw of the market. The IMF would only waste money, of
course. Even laying aside the Hermitage and the like, the
Yeltsin government would waste far more valuable assets:
irreplaceable time, its own energy and credibility with its
own people. Beware, former comrades, it's a capitalist plot.