U.S. Plans to Sharply Limit or Cancel
   Pacific Salmon Season for Lack of Fish
   ----
   By Charles McCoy
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The proposed drastic action reflects regulators' concern
over a rapid collapse in salmon populations in the last
several years all up and down the Pacific coast, from the
Mexican border to Canada.
   Though drought and unusually warm waters stirred up by El
Nino currents are partly to blame, the main culprits are
man-made: Logging, population growth and pollution have wiped
out hundreds of miles of salmon habitat throughout the West,
and overfishing has further depleted salmon numbers.
   "This is a very grim moment," said Bill Baake, resource
director for Oregon Trout, a fish advocacy group. "All the
activities that have been depleting salmon runs for decades
seem to have culminated in a situation where there are no
fish."
   Today, the Pacific Fisheries Management Council, a
quasi-governmental agency that sets U.S. fishing policies in
the Pacific, will issue a plan proposing options ranging from
banning salmon fishing this year to limiting the salmon catch
to only 60% of last year's haul. The council will make a
final decision on how severe the limits will be in mid-April.
In most areas in the West, the salmon fishing season begins
in early summer.
   Curtailing fishing would hammer the commercial and
sport-fishing industries on the West Coast, which generate an
estimated $1 billion a year in economic output for the
region. That industry has been in decline for years, along
with salmon populations. Fishery biologists estimate that
salmon catches in Pacific coastal waters have plunged by 80%
from historic peaks in the early years of this century.
   Moreover, U.S. commercial fishermen have been hurt by
competition from the burgeoning salmon farming industry,
particularly in Norway, Japan and Chile. Salmon farmers raise
hundreds of millions of fish annually in enclosed pens and
can deliver them to market more quickly and cheaply than most
salmon boat operators.
   "This will be the death knell for a lot of Pacific coast
fishermen, their families and their way of life," said Trygg
Sletteland, a fisheries consultant in Redding, Calif.
   Salmon consumers aren't likely to find prices rising or
fish scarce, however.
   Fisheries biologists believe the limits could help
stabilize the dwindling salmon stocks. Once the drought now
affecting much of the West Coast and the warm ocean currents
associated with El Nino end, salmon survival and reproduction
should improve. But barring a halt to habitat destruction,
biologists don't see much hope for a significant rebound in
salmon numbers. "Unless habitat loss is reversed, in 30 or 40
years, there won't be enough salmon left to justify any
commercial fishing," said Mr. Baake, the Oregon Trout
resource director.
   Indeed, the proposed regulatory limits underscore the
desperate plight of the salmon, which remains a powerful
symbol of the Pacific Coast's wild past. The American
Fisheries Society, an association of professional fisheries
biologists, estimates that 214 separate populations of salmon
or trout on the West Coast are in jeopardy; more than 100 of
those are near extinction, the group says. Federal regulators
recently placed two once-huge salmon runs on the Endangered
Species List, and have recommended others for protection.
   But restoring habitat would require costly sacrifices by
cities and industries whose water and land-use practices have
destroyed salmon spawning grounds. The conflict is most
intense along the Columbia River, where federal dams,
irrigation, logging and other activities have decimated
salmon runs that once numbered in the tens of millions of
fish. Federal agencies are trying to work out a plan to save
some of the endangered salmon along the Columbia, but water
users fear any substantial fish-restoration efforts could
cost the Pacific Northwest's economy billions of dollars.