Politics  Policy:
   Cigarette-Liability Case Should Provide Lessons
   On the Tactics to Use Before the Rehnquist Court
   ----
   By Paul M. Barrett
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Relying heavily on the literal words of the law, for
example, is a good idea. Inferring legislative intent from
congressional floor debate isn't.
   The pitches that score points disclose aspects of the
court's thinking that don't always fit neatly beneath the
headings "liberal" or "conservative." Criminal defendants, to
be sure, can usually count on a chilly reception at the high
court. But corporations can't assume they will get a friendly
audience.
   The hot buttons will be much in evidence today when the
justices hear new arguments in the cigarette liability case,
Cipollone vs. Liggett Group Inc. Possibly the most important
business dispute of the term, it presents the question of
whether the federal law mandating health warnings on
cigarette packages and advertisements precludes smokers who
become ill from suing tobacco companies. More broadly, the
court could set guidelines for when state injury law may go
further than federal statutes -- a matter of huge importance
to manufacturers in many industries.
   The high court already heard arguments in the case Oct. 8,
at the outset of its current term. But in late October, it
took the unusual step of asking for reargument, presumably so
that the newest justice, Clarence Thomas, could participate.
This could mean that there was a 4-4 split and that Justice
Thomas will cast the tiebreaking vote. Still, lawyers for
both sides will be trying to cement the votes they have and
convert those against them.
   (Liggett, Durham, N.C., is a subsidiary of Brooke Group
Ltd., Durham, itself a unit of Brook Management Inc., New
York.)
   Here are some of the tactics that generally impress the
Rehnquist court and could help decide the cigarette case:
                                                                                                       

   Stick to the text. Base your argument on the words of the
Constitution, a statute, an Internal Revenue Service rule --
whatever's at hand -- but don't get bogged down in murky
evidence of legislative intent. For generations, attorneys
have relied on lawmakers' public statements to illuminate a
statute's purpose. Influenced primarily by Justice Antonin
Scalia, however, the court lately has shown increasing
contempt for the dense verbiage of committee reports and the
purple prose of floor debate. The reason: These ancillary
pronouncements often reflect eleventh-hour political deals or
language drafted by anonymous, unaccountable staff aides.
   Marc Edell, attorney for the plaintiffs in the tobacco
case, has already proved the rule by breaking it. In his Oct.
8 oral argument, he emphasized the legislative background of
the 1965 federal cigarette-warning law and later amendments.
Congress, he told the court, implied in hearings and reports
that it didn't intend to preclude injury suits against
cigarette makers.
   The argument bombed. Justices repeatedly interrupted him
to demand that he address the words of the law -- namely, a
provision that bars states from imposing any "requirement or
prohibition" relating to cigarette promotion.
   This time, Mr. Edell has brought in an experienced Supreme
Court litigator, Prof. Laurence Tribe of Harvard, to handle
the reargument. Although a liberal, Mr. Tribe frequently has
argued against reading between the lines of legislation to
discern its meaning.
                                                                                                       

   Respect the authority of the states. Led by Chief Justice
William Rehnquist and Justice Sandra O'Connor, the court is
increasingly concerned about protecting state autonomy
against federal encroachment. The loser lately has been
business.
   Companies typically ask the court to set aside state
regulations on the theory that they are "pre-empted" by less
stringent federal laws. But the Rehnquist court has ruled
that states possess broad regulatory power as long as a
conflict with federal law doesn't exist.
   The tobacco companies' lead attorney, Bartow Farr, has
argued that Congress made cigarette-warning requirements a
federal concern because of the need to protect against
diverse, contradictory state rules. Moreover, according to
this view, a suit brought under state injury law is
equivalent to the sort of state "requirement or prohibition"
that Congress specifically banned.
   Mr. Tribe is expected to stress that if Congress wanted to
ban injury lawsuits, it would have used words such as "no
injury lawsuits." Moving to the big picture, he is likely to
argue that in a political system dominated by federal power,
the judiciary should preserve some measure of state
sovereignty by imposing a strong presumption against
pre-emption. (Messrs. Tribe and Farr declined in interviews
to discuss their planned strategies.)
                                                                                                       

   Simplify. The Burger court was famous for resolving
conflicts with "balancing tests," complicated formulas to
"weigh" lists of factors. Justices Harry Blackmun and John
Stevens -- the current court's liberal minority -- remain
multifactor fans, and Justice O'Connor favors the balancing
approach as well.
   But a majority of the Rehnquist court "is more likely to
issue an opinion {trying to put} an end to a legal
controversy" with a "bright-line rule," says Robert Giuffra,
a former Rehnquist clerk who has written articles about how
to win before the current court. The urge to simplify
typically leads to conservative results -- but not always.
Mr. Giuffra points to a 1990 decision that could be seen as
liberal: The court by a 6-2 vote ruled that once a criminal
defendant has asked for a lawyer, the police may not restart
an interrupted interrogation unless the lawyer is present.
   The tangled subject of pre-emption doesn't lend itself
easily to bright lines. But that won't stop smart lawyers
from offering simple solutions, if asked.
   Mr. Farr has hinted at one example: Only the Federal Trade
Commission -- and not individuals -- may sue over misleading
cigarette ads. Prof. Tribe could well counter that Congress
bears a bright-line obligation to be explicit if it wants to
deny consumers their day in court.
                                                                                                       

   Don't shout, and know your audience. In oral arguments,
the current court isn't looking for latter-day Daniel
Websters or Clarence Darrows. Justice David Souter, for one,
is said to dislike flowery oration, especially when it seems
directed as much at a lawyer's clients and supporters as it
is aimed at the bench. Sob stories about hooked, hacking
smokers won't win the cigarette case.
                                                                                                       

   A final tip. Don't address the court as "gentlemen."
Justice O'Connor may interrupt, as she did recently, to ask
if she's included, too.