Heard on the Street:
   Dividends Grow, but Low Levels Point to No Bargains
   ----
   By Craig Torres
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
January brought dividend increases from 124 companies,
10.7% more than in the recessionary year-earlier period,
according to an SP survey of payouts by 11,000 companies.
That was the third monthly gain in a row -- but January's
tally was still 16% below the level of two years ago.
   Right now the SP 500 stocks are yielding an uncommonly
low 2.95%, a level that has often preceded stock-market
setbacks in the past. And SP is forecasting that dividends
for the 500 biggest U.S. stocks will grow only 3% to 4% this
year.
   Investors may be cheered to find that only 11 companies
reduced their dividends last month, down from 24 in the first
month of 1991. Still, more shareholders felt the pinch than
in the first month of 1990, when just four companies cut
their dividends. Dividend-omission levels showed some
promise: Only 11 companies canceled payouts completely last
month, compared with 28 in January last year and 15 in
January 1990.
   A month doesn't a trend make. But Mr. Kaufman may be on to
something when he expects sluggish dividend growth all year.
   Stock sage Peter L. Bernstein recently studied
post-recession dividend trends. He found that dividend growth
four quarters and eight quarters after a recession lagged
notably behind the overall level of economic growth and
earnings gains. Given today's low dividend yields, Mr.
Bernstein doubts that investors would be eagerly buying
stocks unless they expected strong dividend growth this year.
They may be overly optimistic, judging by past dividend
behavior, he says; as stocks race higher on expectations of
stronger earnings growth, dividend yields will lag behind,
making the stock market extremely vulnerable to a rise in
interest rates.
   But Steven Einhorn, partner and stock strategist at
Goldman, Sachs, argues that interest rates on bonds and other
competing investments are so low, the weak yields on stocks
aren't a deterrent.
   Low "dividend yields make the market vulnerable to a sharp
rise in interest rates," Mr. Einhorn agrees. But his bet is
that interest rates aren't going to jump sharply this year.
The 3.84% rate on three-month Treasury bills now is less than
1.3 times the dividend yield on the SP 500, which he deems a
rather unenticing tradeoff for the higher potential rewards
of owning stocks. If T-bill rates were to jump to more than
twice dividend yields, then the risk-free returns on T-bills
might begin to look more attractive to Mr. Einhorn.
   Elaine Garzarelli, the Shearson Lehman Brothers
strategist, thinks rising T-bill rates could clock the market
for a hefty 10% to 15% tumble. "But I don't think it will
happen until early 1993," she says. She believes the
necessary conditions are a warming economy and a tighter
monetary policy at the Federal Reserve.
   Ms. Garzarelli says that stock market peaks occur when the
dividend yield falls to 56% of the T-bill rate. Currently,
the SP 500-stock index dividend yield equals about 77% of
the T-bill rate.
   Looking at the dividend yield alone, stock prices could
rise about 40% from today's levels before they become
overvalued, she predicts. But she tempers that forecast a
bit, and says, "I think the stock market can go up 25% from
here."
   What do investors want? The safety of yield or the thrill
and risk of hot earnings growth?
   Few people get to watch the swarm of stock buyers like
Richard Kauffman, managing director in charge of equity
capital markets at First Boston Corp. His firm, like many
others, has underwritten growth stocks, cyclical stocks, and
defensive, higher-yielding convertibles over the past 18
months.
   Just about all flavors are gobbled up equally, he says.
"That's one of the odd things about this market," Mr.
Kauffman says. If the recovery was certain, "there would be
real leadership in cyclical stocks. But most stocks are doing
well -- offensive and defensive," he adds.
   Investors may be able to find both advantages -- earnings
growth and decent yields -- in the beaten-down energy sector.
Edward Rorer, president of Rorer Asset Management in
Philadelphia, says investors should pick carefully through
energy stocks; even if they buy good companies, they could
lose a few bucks in the near term.
   That said, he believes there are some exciting growth
companies delivering good current yields.
   Mr. Rorer likes oil and gas pipeline concern Williams
Cos., for example. The company was among the handful in
January that boosted their quarterly dividends -- to 38 cents
a share from 35 cents; the stock yields more than 4.2% today.
Mr. Rorer expects earnings to grow 28% to $2.75 a share from
about $2.15 last year. That means investors can collect a
yield approximating the one-year T-bill rate, and own a stock
trading at only 13 times 1992 estimated earnings.
   Clifford Storms, director of research at Rorer Asset, says
a Kern River pipeline project should contribute 40 cents a
share to earnings this year; Williams's earnings are
sensitive to natural gas demand, but less so to natural gas
prices, he says. That's because the company ships gas, but
doesn't take it out of the ground.
   Also, Williams runs fiber-optic cable through some unused
gas pipelines, and operates a telecommunications subsidiary.
This business should contribute an additional 15 cents to
earnings this year, Mr. Storms predicts.
   Alan B. Snyder, head of San Francisco-based Snyder Capital
Management, says he's avoided the "yield frenzy" this year
and opted for cyclical growth stories.
   Currently, he owns large positions in two energy-related
stocks that pay dividend yields next to nothing. Mr. Snyder
likes the energy sector because "if you believe there is
going to be an economic recovery, then almost by definition
demand for oil is going to be better than expected." Also, he
thinks the Feb. 12 meeting of the Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries will result in higher, not lower, oil
prices.
   Mr. Snyder's firm has a significant stake in Sante Fe
Energy Resources. The company has substantial "unproven"
reserves in California's Kern River area, which the stock
market hasn't built into the share price, he says.
   Mr. Snyder also likes Rowan Cos., a specialist in drilling
platforms and helicopter services. "The stock is selling at
less than the value of its own rigs and helicopters," Mr.
Snyder says. As with Williams, Rowan's earnings are exposed
to the demand for oil more than the price. Mr. Snyder thinks
the company will benefit in the 1990s as less developed
countries tap their oil reserves.
   Rowan, which closed yesterday at $5.875, could have a loss
equivalent to 35 cents a share this year, analysts believe.
That would be narrower than the 1991 net loss of 61 cents a
share, and Mr. Snyder thinks the company can generate enough
cash to maintain the value of its assets.