Global View:
   What Kind of `Power' Will Germany Be?
   ----
   By George Melloan
Now, the Soviet empire has collapsed and German
reunification is 15 months old. Some western commentators
fear that Germany will become once more what Bismarck created
with the first German unification in 1871, a "great power."
That possibility is giving some Europeans and Americans the
jitters. A review of the nationalistic power struggles of the
19th Century that ultimately led to the colossal tragedy of
World War I -- and its World War II sequel -- makes those
jitters understandable. But it would be a mistake not to
recognize that Europe is a very different place today. German
nationalism has not been destroyed, but German policy is not
basically nationalistic.
   Great Power theorists make much of Germany's "muscle" in
persuading the other 11 nations of the European Community to
recognize the independence of Croatia and Slovenia last week.
To be sure, Hans Dietrich Genscher, Germany's effusive
foreign minister, couldn't resist a bit of boasting about the
"correctness" of Germany's position.
   But the Germans succeeded less through muscle than because
the "correctness" of their course was self-evident. The
Croats and Slovenes already had decided for themselves, by
overwhelming votes, that they were no longer part of
Yugoslavia. The EC move, quickly seconded by most of Europe,
improved the chances for peace by demonstrating to Serbian
strongman Slobodan Milosevic that he has no friends. Croatia
immediately offered to negotiate with Serbia on redrawing
borders.
   Further, Germany had some chits to call in after the
conciliatory stance towards France and Britain taken by
Chancellor Helmut Kohl at Maastricht. Germany is the
strongest force pushing for EC unity, even at some sacrifice
of its national interests. Its Yugoslav position was not a
Bismarckian exercise in nation-carving but grew out of
traditional German sympathies for the Croats and Slovenes
that it wanted Europe to share.
   There was more justification for nervousness in other news
last week, however. While Mr. Genscher was celebrating
Germany's leadership on the Yugoslav issue, a dirty little
secret was creeping out of the closet. A U.N. specialist said
in New York that German industry had provided Saddam Hussein
with equipment crucial to the manufacture of nuclear weapons.
German firms, he said, had supplied components for the gas
centrifuges Saddam had been using to enrich uranium before
Desert Storm rang down the curtain, at least temporarily, on
his nuclear effort.
   Also last week, an article on these pages by Kenneth
Timmerman, a Paris-based specialist on arms trade issues,
said that German firms also had helped Saddam upgrade his
Scud missiles. A member of the U.N. inspection team
investigating Saddam's compliance with U.N. resolutions had
photographed the nameplates of German manufacturers on
equipment used to launch Scuds and improve their accuracy.
For reasons unknown to Mr. Timmerman, the U.N. team had
instructions to bulldoze and bury this equipment, much of it
damaged by U.S. air strikes, after inspecting it.
   These revelations, of course, raise the specter of a
revival of the old German military-industrial complex. But
Germany is conducting its own investigation and it should be
kept in mind that before the Kuwait invasion, U.S. policy
itself, while not supporting nuclear proliferation,
considered it important for Iraq to be a military power that
could serve as a counterweight against the ayatollahs of
Iran. There are many questions to be asked about Germany's
relationship with Saddam, but there are many as well to be
asked about the relationships of the U.S. and France. In
neither the Saddam nor Yugoslav affairs has Germany shown any
inclination to use real muscle; to the contrary, it shrinks
from military involvement.
   The bottom line is that, a few small signals
notwithstanding, Germany shows little inclination to act
unilaterally in its foreign policy. It supports political
unity in the EC, despite the skepticism of Britain and the
self-aggrandizement efforts of France. It supports a
continued U.S. and NATO presence in Europe against France's
visceral hostility to that idea. These German policies should
be encouraged, not subverted by anti-German paranoia, for the
very simple reason that paranoia could be self-fulfilling. It
could be unfortunate in today's unsettled world if Germany
once again "turned her face to the East," however remote that
might now sound.
   There is also the question of whether Germany should be
accorded more status in international councils. For example,
Germany presumably will have no important role in the U.N.
summit that British Prime Minister John Major has proposed
for Jan. 31. He wants a meeting of the 15-member Security
Council to decide, among other things, whether Russia will
succeed the Soviet Union as a permanent member.
   Because they lost World War II, neither Japan nor Germany
are among the five permanent members, even though they are
the world's second and third-ranking economic powers. Maybe
the U.N. needs a wholesale overhaul, but there is little
evidence that any of the other four permanent members -- the
U.S., Britain, France and China -- want a major change.
   Some would argue that the U.S. should be in no hurry to
substitute two other "powers" for the one that gave it so
much trouble at the U.N. over the years, the Soviet Union.
But it could be argued as well that Germany and Japan would
feel less temptation to swing towards unilateral foreign
policies if they are accorded full membership on the
international team. The fact that Germany and Japan played
only a sideline role in the U.N. action against Saddam can be
explained in part by their sideline role in the U.N. itself.
   Here at Remagen, at a weathered war memorial beside the
misty Rhine, is a good place to reflect on such matters, in
particular the politics of cooperation versus the politics of
paranoia and confrontation.