Marketing  Media:
   Two Ex-Executives of Columbia Pictures
   Launch a Movie Distribution Company
   ----
   By Laura Landro
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Savoy's backers, who also include veteran Hollywood
executives Frank Price and Andy Vajna, say they see an
opportunity to fill the gap in Hollywood left by the failure
of a number of smaller film companies and by financial
disasters at studios such as Orion Pictures Corp., Carolco
Pictures Inc. and MGM/Pathe Communications Inc. "After the
summer, it became clear to us that with the demise of Orion
and the demise of MGM, there was a void in the marketplace"
of companies that could finance and distribute movies made by
independent producers, Mr. Kaufman said.
   The Savoy investor group reunites longtime associates of
Columbia in the 1980s, when it was owned by Coca-Cola Co.,
prior to its sale to Sony in 1989. Allen  Co.'s Herbert A.
Allen Jr. and Enrique Senior were both advisers to Columbia
and Coke during the Sony sale, and Mr. Allen was on the
boards of both Columbia and Coke, where he is still a
director.
   Although ownership stakes weren't disclosed, Savoy
initially will be capitalized with $75 million in common
stock and $25 million in subordinated convertible debentures.
The largest investor is the Pritzker family, which owns the
Hyatt Corp. hotel chain, among other things. The Pritzkers
were brought into the fold by Dan Lufkin, a founder of
Donaldson, Lufkin  Jenrette Securities Corp. and former
director of Columbia in the Coke days. Their investment is
being made through GKH Investors L.P., whose general partner
includes entities controlled by Jay and Tom Pritzker, Mr.
Lufkin and Mel Klein, an attorney and investor.
   Although the Mitsui investment isn't as large as GKH's, it
is the Japanese trading giant's first move into the
entertainment industry in the U.S., following a number of
investments by other Japanese companies. Ken Horikawa,
general manager of media and information businesses for
Mitsui in New York, said, "we look at this as a great
opportunity for us" to enter the entertainment business.
   Two other investors, Mr. Price and Mr. Vajna, also have
long ties to Mr. Kaufman and the other partners. Mr. Price,
now a producer, was head of the Columbia studio in the early
'80s and was rehired by the new Sony management for a
short-lived reign before being eased out last year.
   Mr. Vajna, also a producer, was a founder of Carolco, the
troubled film studio that has long distributed its movies,
such as "The Terminator," through Sony's TriStar Pictures.
   Savoy won't be putting up any money for production of a
film but rather will pay the so-called "prints and ad"
budget, or the cost of marketing and distributing a film.
Those costs can range from $10 million to $25 million per
film; in return, Savoy will get a distribution fee, which
typically falls in the range of 30% of a movie's sales.
   Mr. Kaufman and Mr. Korman left Columbia after the Sony
sale with hefty compensation packages -- Mr. Kaufman's was
about $30 million and Mr. Korman's was about one-third of
that amount -- and have been looking for a way to get back in
the business ever since.
   Mr. Kaufman held various jobs at Columbia before becoming
the founding chief executive of Tri-Star. He became chief
executive of Columbia Pictures Entertainment Inc. when
Tri-Star was combined with the entertainment operations of
Coke. Mr. Kaufman is credited with building Columbia into a
large and diversified entertainment concern with wide
television and theatrical exhibition operations before its
sale to Sony.