ATT to Replace as Many as One-Third
   Of Its Operators With Computer Systems
   ----
   By John J. Keller
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
They'll be replaced by a computerized "voice-recognition"
technology pioneered by ATT Bell Laboratories that responds
to a caller's verbal prompts, ATT said. Instead of talking
to a human operator, callers on the ATT network will tell a
robotic operator the type of call they would like to make.
   "The voice prompts the caller to say `collect; third
number; person-to-person; or calling card,'" said an ATT
spokesman about the company's newest service breakthrough.
When the call is made, he said, "the system will tell the
called party, `I have a collect call from Mr. So and So. Do
you accept the call?'" The spokesman added that a customer
will always be able to get a live operator simply by saying
"operator," and that if the system doesn't understand the
customer, it will automatically switch to an operator.
   ATT's move prompted an angry response from its largest
union, the Communications Workers of America. ATT and the
CWA have been at odds over continual massive cutbacks that
have trimmed ATT's ranks by 100,000 workers since its
breakup in 1984. But lately their relations have become
increasingly strained as the union pegged recent problems
with ATT service, including four major network failures in
two years, to overzealous cost-cutting by the
telecommunications giant.
   "We're outraged by ATT's move . . . and by their
unbelievable disrespect of our union," said CWA President
Morton Bahr. "ATT's decision to announce layoffs . . . four
weeks before contract talks begin is the worst intimidation
tactic we have ever seen." Added J.D. Williams, president of
a CWA local representing ATT operators in Dallas: "It's a
sad day in the history of ATT and the Bell System, which
have been offering operator services for more than 100
years." ATT plans to close the Dallas center, which employs
140 operators.
   But ATT's spokesman said the company's statistics show
that fewer Americans are using live operators these days to
help place their calls. "Ninety percent of all long-distance
calls are made without an operator and the number of
operator-assisted calls has been declining by 8% a year,"
said ATT's spokesman. This is a trend, he added, that goes
back to 1951 when ATT introduced direct-dialed long-distance
calling. "{Voice recognition} is one more step on that
technology path," he said.
   ATT decided to deploy the system after conducting two
field tests in the Dallas-Fort Worth area. The company said
the trials indicated that customers found the system easy to
use and more versatile from a service standpoint. The system
uses a method called "word spotting" to filter out
automatically any spoken words it doesn't need to act upon,
ATT said.
   ATT said workers who will potentially be affected by the
change will be able to apply for as many as eight types of
alternative jobs, including international operator services
and positions at bilingual operator centers. In addition,
those who leave will get severance benefits of up to 104
weeks pay for the most senior people.