Monday's Markets:
   Industrials
   Rise 2.23
   To a Record
   ---
   Nasdaq Index Falls;
   Long-Term Rates
   Moving Toward 8%
   ----
   By Douglas R. Sease
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Analysts said the Dow industrials' pattern of setting new
records each week reflects the assumption that an economic
recovery is at hand, although concrete evidence remains
scanty. The 30-stock Dow average is a bit more skewed toward
companies sensitive to the economic cycle than is the SP
500. This year's gains in cyclical stocks have generally come
at the expense of big consumer growth stocks.
   The long-term Treasury market is assuming a rebound, too,
traders point out, along with fear that inflation will
increase as economic activity picks up. So far, stocks have
held on to most of their gains as long-term interest rates
approach 8%, but analysts say a day of reckoning will arrive
soon in which either interest rates or stock prices fall.
   To keep their faith intact, stock investors are going to
need more signals that the economy is indeed on a recovery
track. Today's consumer confidence report may help a little:
It is expected to be up slightly from the gloomy 50.4% level
in January. More important will be the expected rebound in
January durable goods orders, which will be reported
tomorrow. Orders, which plunged 5.2% in December, are
estimated to have risen about 1% in January.
   In major market action:
                                                                                                       

   Stock prices were mixed. Volume totaled 177.5 million
shares on the New York Stock Exchange, where 1,013 issues
fell and 726 rose.
                                                                                                       

   Bond prices slipped. The Treasury's benchmark 30-year bond
lost a quarter of a point, or $2.50 for each $1,000 face
amount. The yield on the issue rose to 7.97%.
                                                                                                       

   The dollar was mixed. In late New York trading the
currency was quoted at 1.6527 marks and 129.13 yen, compared
with 1.6560 marks and 128.95 yen.