Tax-Cut Law, While Likely, Is Expected
   To Be Only a Ghost of Democrats' Bill
   ----
   By Jackie Calmes
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
President Bush yesterday all but erased remaining doubts
that he would carry out his threat to veto the Democratic
package because it would raise taxes on upper-income
Americans. Mr. Bush, who was on a campaign visit to Tampa,
Fla., condemned the Democrats' proposals as a "rip-off."
Introduced at a rally by retired Gen. Norman Schwartzkopf, he
evoked last year's Desert Storm victory by saying he would
"draw another line in the sand" and veto the Democrats' bill
"the day I get it."
   The Senate hasn't even passed the bill yet -- debate is
set for next week -- and after that the legislation would
have to be reconciled with the House-passed version. But on
all sides the question already is: What comes after the
near-certain demise of this bill?
   Republican Sen. John Danforth of Missouri expressed what
lawmakers in both parties have suggested could be the modest
outlines of an eventual compromise. It could include, Sen.
Danforth said, the extension of a group of popular tax
incentives, including credits for business experimentation
and low-income housing development; repeal of a widely
unpopular luxury tax on yachts and private planes; and some
Bentsen proposals to make health insurance available to more
workers and their families.
   "There's a lot we could do, and I think we could do it in
very short order," Sen. Danforth said.
   Aside from the provisions Sen. Danforth noted, much common
ground exists between the tax plans of Mr. Bush and both
House and Senate Democrats. All include some variation of an
investment-tax allowance for businesses, deductions for
real-estate professionals, capital-gains tax reductions, some
relief for businesses that pay the alternative minimum tax,
and penalty-free withdrawals from individual retirement
accounts for first homes, major medical expenses and college
costs.
   One factor likely to keep a post-veto bill modest is cost.
A measure with many provisions is likely to require higher
taxes to pay for itself. But President Bush says he won't
consider any higher taxes. Modest bills, in contrast,
typically are financed with various "loophole" closers and
other minor provisions that aren't perceived to be tax
increases.
   Senate Majority Leader George Mitchell of Maine excoriated
Mr. Bush yesterday in a Senate speech for including just such
tax increases in his own fiscal 1993 budget request, while
knocking Democrats as tax-raisers. The Bush proposals include
provisions that would increase taxes on securities firms,
annuities, corporate-owned life insurance and credit unions.
After heavy lobbying by the affected industries, only the
securities provision is in the House and Senate bills.
   There could be at least two vehicles later this year for a
modest tax compromise. This summer, emergency unemployment
aid expires, and Democrats will move to extend it. In
addition, Congress will have to raise the government's
borrowing authority at some point.
   Any prospect of conciliation on the current, broader tax
package disappeared earlier this week. The president,
hammered by GOP rival Patrick Buchanan, confessed that his
decision to sign the 1990 bipartisan deficit-reduction pact
-- and thus effectively break his no-new-taxes pledge -- was
a mistake. Separately, he vowed no-new-compromise with
Congress on taxes.
   Sen. Bentsen, in a speech to the National Press Club,
said, "This tax legislation -- for that matter, all policy
making its way through the White House -- is being held
hostage to the political civil war raging within the
Republican Party."
   "That will continue as long as the president's decisions
are being held hostage by Pat Buchanan," the Finance
Committee chairman said. "To a great extent, the fate of this
tax legislation will be decided in the Republican primaries
of Super Tuesday next week."
   But assuming Mr. Bush does issue his expected veto, the
standoff between Mr. Bush and the congressional Democrats may
continue for at least a while before there's any compromise.
Democrats may send the president yet another bill he won't
sign. They lately have been noting that Mr. Bush last year
vetoed one jobless-aid bill and blocked another before he
finally signed a third version in the face of political and
economic pressures.
   "There's going to have to be another run at a
middle-income tax cut," said one top Democratic aide. And
Democrats are likely to press again for a tax increase on
upper-income Americans -- at a minimum a surtax on
millionaires, if not an increase in the top marginal
income-tax rate. The middle-class tax cut and an increase on
the wealthiest taxpayers are central to the Democratic
leaders' campaign for what they call tax "fairness."
   At the House Ways and Means Committee, where tax bills
must originate, an aide to Chairman Dan Rostenkowski (D.,
Ill.) said, "Rostenkowski did this bill when the Democratic
leadership asked him to, and he'll do another one if they ask
him to."