Smith Barney Office
   Acts to Keep Clients
   Of Departed Brokers
   ---
   Fatter Commissions Offered
   To Workers Who Keep
   Investors From Bolting
   ----
   By Michael Siconolfi
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Smith Barney brokers in its Atlanta branch will keep 50%
of the commissions they drum up for three months from the
client list of a recently departed broker, according to the
memo. Brokers typically keep roughly one-third of their
commissions; the firm gets the rest.
   The memo underscores the behind-the-scenes fights that
increasingly erupt over investors' accounts when brokers jump
ship. The tug-of-war pits the broker, who tries to keep his
customers, and the firm, which encourages its remaining
brokers to bag the clients for themselves. The battle is
significant for small investors, who may not know brokers are
receiving special incentives to win their business. Such
directives rarely become public.
   "It's dog-eat-dog when brokers leave their firms," said
Dan Jamieson, editor of Registered Representative magazine, a
trade journal for stockbrokers. "It's unbelievable."
   The memo, written by Atlanta branch manager Mike Grace, is
blunt. The brokers have to keep the business for three months
to snag the extra payout. "Go to work," it says. "I doubt
there are very strong ties to {the former broker} with these
clients."
   Mr. Grace declined to comment. On Friday, a Smith Barney
spokesman said: "This is an instance of steps taken from time
to time to retain account executives and clients. It's more
an exception than a common practice."
   The memo is not the only step Smith Barney recently has
taken to keep its clients from leaving. In an unconventional
letter, the firm recently offered 50% discounts on
commissions to certain investors in its White Plains, N.Y.,
branch.
   For Wall Street brokerage firms, keeping customer accounts
is more important than ever these days. That's because low
interest rates are prompting investors to increasingly switch
out of low-yielding investments into stocks. Meantime,
turnover among brokers can run as high as 20% a year, Wall
Street executives say.
   What should investors do when their brokers leave? It
depends on whether an investor feels the broker is providing
good service and advice, brokerage executives say. "The
important thing is not the firm," said Registered
Representative's Mr. Jamieson. "It's the relationship with
the broker that is what you're really buying."