Heard on the Street:
   Giddings  Lewis's Scarce Preferred May Offer
   Good Yield Whle Common's Fate is Awaited
   ----
   By Craig Torres
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Investors such as Harris Leviton, manager of the Fidelity
Convertible Securities Fund, think the preferred is just the
right way to play this high-tech tool company. If Giddings 
Lewis common takes a short-term spill -- and a few investors
think it will -- the preferred offers a way to maintain a
stake while collecting a good yield.
   If the story is so sweet, why isn't everybody buying?
Partly because this security was born in obscurity and few
investors know about it. Also, there are only 2.3 million
preferred shares out there; but that's good for small
investors because it is keeping a lot of big investors out of
the issue. Trading volume averages about 7,400 shares a day.
   Back in October 1991, Giddings  Lewis bought out
competitor Cross  Trecker. As part of the deal, Giddings 
Lewis took on parts of Cross  Trecker's balance sheet. So
Cross  Trecker preferred turned into Giddings  Lewis series
A senior preferred.
   It's an easy security to get to know. Giddings  Lewis
preferred pays an annual dividend of $2.50 a year. Based on
Friday's closing bid price of $33.25, the preferred yields
around 7.5%. Dividends are paid quarterly; Giddings  Lewis
can't call the issue for five more quarters -- or $3.125 in
dividend payments from now -- until March 15, 1993.
   At any time, the preferred holders can convert each
preferred share into 0.774 shares of Giddings  Lewis common
stock. After the "call protection" expires in March 1993,
Giddings  Lewis can redeem the preferred issue for $26.75 a
share in cash -- a prospect deemed unlikely by many investors
who figure the company could find a better use for $61.5
million. Or the company can change the equity into
convertible bonds with a 10% coupon and a face value of $25,
which was the original price of the preferred. But investors
think Giddings  Lewis management is too debtaverse to relish
this option.
   To check and see if the market, or your broker, is pricing
the preferred somewhere around the fair price, do the
following calculation: the preferred price equals the price
of Giddings  Lewis common stock, $38.75, times 0.774; plus
$3.125 in dividend payments. Add it up and out comes $33.12,
within a whisker of Friday's closing price for the preferred.
   A rush to buy cyclical stocks at the start of the year
caused a stampede toward Giddings  Lewis common shares.
Today, the common is trading at around 18 times 1992 profit
estimates. And there's a hot debate right now over whether
Giddings  Lewis common is cheap or way too rich. The
argument hinges on how fast investors think Giddings  Lewis
can digest the Cross  Trecker purchase.
   "We've been selling" the common, says Robert Moore, head
of research at Brinson Partners. "It's a hot stock because
expectations are high on the merger. But {management} has to
deliver, and if they don't, the stock is vulnerable -- no
question about it." Mr. Moore says Brinson has shed about all
of its 420,000-share stake and is looking for cheaper stocks.
   On the other hand, James LaTorre, vice president of
investments at the $227 million Ivy Growth Fund, is hanging
on to 35,000 shares of common. Several top Giddings  Lewis
managers once worked at Cross  Trecker, he notes, and
they'll have little trouble folding the company into their
operations. He figures the stock can keep climbing, and
per-share earnings could rise to $2.20 this year.
   Let 'em argue, says Mr. Leviton, the Fidelity manager.
Either way, he figures, Giddings  Lewis is a growth company
investors should buy and hold for the next three years. While
the common stock may be pricey, Fidelity's 400,000-share
stake in the preferred puts the investment firm in a
privileged position to watch and wait.
   If the common stock drops a lot, he figures the company
wouldn't be inclined to redeem the preferred for $61.5
million. On the other hand, if the common is trading around
$40 a share by March of next year, the company could redeem
the issue and entice preferred holders to take stock instead
of cash. That's because the preferred would be convertible
into about $31 worth of stock, or more than the cash
redemption price of $26.75.
   Of course, Mr. Leviton thinks the common stock is likely
to be up next year, not down. So while some nervous holders
are selling today, Mr. Leviton expects to jump back into the
common stock in about a year, while collecting a fat yield in
the meantime.
   Adds Mr. LaTorre of Ivy Growth: "A lot of these cyclical
stocks have rallied on faith. But between now and the
recovery, it would be nice to pick up a good dividend yield.
This preferred is a wonderful security."
   ---
   Giddings  Lewis
   (OTC; Symbol: GIDL)
                                                                                                       

   Business: Machine tools
                                                                                                       

   Nine months ended Sept. 30, 1991:
   Sales: $195.5 million
   Net income: $15.7 million; or $1.47 a share
                                                                                                       

   Third quarter, Sept. 30, 1991:
   Per-share earnings: 53 cents vs. 50 cents
                                                                                                       

   Average daily trading volume: 133,272 shares
                                                                                                       

   Common shares outstanding: 10.7 million