Technology  Medicine:
   FDA Tells Makers of Certain Heart Drugs
   To Emphasize Risk to Pregnant Women
   ----
   By Elyse Tanouye
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The warning cautions that use of ACE inhibitors in the
second and third trimesters of pregnancy can harm or even
kill a developing fetus. Risks include kidney failure and
face and skull deformities. Labeling of the drug for doctors
has warned of these risks for several years, the FDA said,
but cases of fetal harm continue to occur. More than 50 such
cases have been reported over the past several years, the
agency said.
   The six makers of the drugs in the U.S. have agreed to put
a boxed, boldfaced warning about using ACE inhibitors during
pregnancy prominently at the beginning of the prescribing
information, Merck said.
   The manufacturers of ACE inhibitors are also jointly
sending letters to health care professionals alerting them to
the pregnancy risks. Mailgrams to about 150,000 physicians
were sent Thursday night and Friday, a Merck spokesman said,
and 500,000 information packets will be mailed today to
physicians, nurses and pharmacists.
   Of the approximately six million patients currently taking
ACE inhibitors in the U.S., an estimated 5% are women under
40 years old, according to Merck.
   Sales of all ACE inhibitors in the U.S. totaled about $1.6
billion last year, the Merck spokesman said. World-wide sales
of Merck's Vasotec, in all of its forms, and Bristol-Myers's
Capoten, in all of its forms, were each about $1.5 billion.
   Merck's stock was down early Friday on rumors about the
FDA announcement, said Ronald Nordmann, an analyst at
PaineWebber. But the shares rebounded, and were quoted at
$147.75, up 25 cents, in late trading on the New York Stock
Exchange. "Now that we have the facts, we are significantly
less concerned," said Mr. Nordmann. Bristol-Myers was quoted
at $78.24, down 75 cents, in late Big Board trading.
   The other companies that market ACE inhibitors are much
smaller players, Mr. Nordmann said. They are Ciba-Geigy
Corp., a subsidiary of Switzerland's Ciba-Geigy Ltd.,
Hoechst-Roussel Pharmaceuticals, a unit of Hoechst AG of
Germany, ICI Pharmaceutical Group, a unit of Britain's
Imperial Chemical Industries PLC, and Parke-Davis, a division
of Warner-Lambert Co.
   The FDA said there doesn't appear to be any risk to
fetuses whose exposure to ACE inhibitors is limited to the
first trimester. Women who become pregnant while receiving
the drug shouldn't stop treatment on their own, the agency
advised, because uncontrolled hypertension is dangerous to
them and their fetuses. However, they should consult their
physicians immediately.
   Pharmacists will be asked to counsel women of
child-bearing age who are taking ACE inhibitors and will be
provided with warning stickers to place on bottles advising
women to consult their doctor about switching to a different
drug if they become pregnant, the FDA said.
   Dr. Robert Temple, director of the FDA office that
oversees ACE inhibitors, said the action wasn't prompted by
an increase in reports of fetal harm, but rather because the
agency was concerned that the drug was apparently continuing
to be used by pregnant women despite the warnings. The drug
companies have been fully cooperative in making the changes,
he added.