Media:
   Indiana Jones Faces the Temple
   Of the Tube With New TV Series
   ----
   By Kevin Goldman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
One of Hollywood's most successful movie series is about
to be converted to the small screen with a series titled "The
Young Indiana Jones Chronicles." With Indiana Jones creator
George Lucas at the helm and a per-episode budget of about
$1.6 million -- one of the most expensive hours ever on
television -- the series is a bold and costly gamble for its
producers and the ABC network, which plans to air it
beginning late next month.
   Despite the risk that it may not be a hit with viewers,
the Capital Cities/ABC Inc. unit made an unusual 16-episode
commitment to Mr. Lucas's Lucasfilm Ltd. and the production
company's longtime partner in the movie series, Paramount
Communications Inc. Networks often commit to as few as five
episodes and an average of only 12 episodes until they can
gauge how successful a show is. But ABC, which is now running
third behind rivals CBS Inc. and General Electric Co.'s NBC,
is willing to take a gamble that Indiana Jones can boost its
prime-time lineup.
   For Paramount and Lucasfilm, the television series is a
way to extend the franchise created by the hugely successful
movie trilogy, which starred Harrison Ford. Mr. Lucas says he
had "burned out" on writing stories for the adult character,
adding, "I can't get him in any more jeopardy and get him out
again."
   The most recent film, "Indiana Jones and the Last
Crusade," featured a brief segment about Indiana Jones as a
youth; Mr. Lucas conceived the idea for the "Young Indiana
Jones Chronicles" as a videocassette series and had already
laid out fifteen episodes when he decided to approach
Paramount about a possible television series.
   Paramount, in turn, pitched the series to ABC's chief
programmer, Robert A. Iger. Mr. Iger, badly in need of a new
action-adventure series after the cancellation of the
six-year old "MacGyver," immediately approved the project,
and even made the unusual concession of agreeing to inform
Mr. Lucas by April 15 as to whether the show would be picked
up for a second season. ABC has an option for an additional
22 episodes; Lucasfilm, based at Mr. Lucas's Skywalker Ranch
on 3,000 acres outside San Francisco, has already completed
22 scripts, and is working on further adventures.
   The $27.2 million total cost of the 15 one-hour shows and
a two-hour premiere movie will be partly picked up by ABC,
which pays a license fee to air each one twice. But as is
typical, the producers of the series pick up a hefty chunk of
the budget and own the shows after the network run. In the
case of "Indiana Jones," Paramount says it has already
covered a significant portion of its costs by selling the
series in a number of overseas markets such as New Zealand,
Germany, Canada and Australia.
   Although he declined to be specific, John Pike, president
of the network television division of Paramount Pictures,
said "{`Young Indiana Jones Chronicles'} makes sound
financial sense for Paramount." He said the episodes will
have a long life after the series ends. "We view this as a
lifetime asset show."
   Instead of selling the series in syndication to individual
television stations after the network run, however, Paramount
and Lucasfilm say they will stick to the original idea of
distributing "Young Indiana Jones Chronicles" as a
videocassette series in the U.S and abroad.
   Despite its high price tag, "Young Indiana Jones
Chronicles" might have cost significantly more had Lucasfilm
and Paramount not tried some unusual production strategies.
For instance, Mr. Lucas doesn't rely on a single expensive
Hollywood crew to hopscotch the globe for the show's
exhaustive filming in 11 countries, including Egypt, China,
Africa, London and Czechoslovakia. The 47-year-old producer
uses less expensive local crews he became acquainted with
during the filming of the movies.
   In the show's premiere, young Indy travels with his
parents to Egypt and meets T.E. Lawrence, the famous Lawrence
of Arabia. The first hour involves a murder mystery that
isn't solved until seven years later in Mexico. Indy's age
jumps forward to 16 in the next hour, then alternates back
and forth during the ensuing episodes.
   Those viewers expecting the nail-biting action scenes that
dominated the three theatrical movies might be disappointed.
"The Young Indiana Jones Chronicles" is more "The Wonder
Years" than "Raiders of the Lost Ark" -- more a coming of age
story since the series traces Indy's adolescence and teen
years. "This is an extremely high-risk show," Mr. Lucas
concedes. "It's not designed to be a sure-fire hit. It's not
razzle dazzle."
   But there will be some spectacular action scenes, such as
a battle sequence set in East Africa in 1917. Each episode is
introduced by actor George Hall, playing a 93-year-old
wearing glasses, an eyepatch and the omnipresent fedora.
Introducing himself as Henry Jones ("My friends call me
Indy"), he says, "I lived the adventures of a lifetime." In
the series, he has acupuncture at age 10 and meets such
notables as Norman Rockwell, George Patton, Theodore
Roosevelt and Pablo Picasso. He also falls in love with a
woman active in the suffragette movement. Mr. Lucas says he
got "infatuated with the history aspect" and tries to be as
historically accurate as possible.
   Two unknowns, Corey Carrier and Sean Patrick Flanery, play
Indy at ages 10 through 12, and 16 through 18, respectively.
Although Mr. Lucas doesn't direct any episodes himself, he
has signed on others such as Terry Jones ("Monty Python's
Life of Brian"), Jim O'Brien ("The Jewel in the Crown") and
Simon Wincer ("Lonesome Dove").
   Mr. Lucas acknowledges that aiming the show at a general
family audience is risky, since the series has no tightly
defined demographic that advertisers often look for. "It's
going to be very hard for the show to find a market," he
says. "It appeals to all ages, which isn't easy to do on
television." However, he adds, ABC was "willing to take a
chance and go with something where people's perception of
what it was going to be was considerably different from what
it actually is."