Abreast of the Market:
   Major Corporations' Profit Declines Mask
   Glimmers of Hope for a Strong Comeback
   ----
   By Douglas R. Sease
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
To be sure, the nation's economy is far from vigorous and
that was evident, too, in the fourth-quarter results of
companies whose fortunes are closely tied to the economic
cycle. Aluminum, steel and mining concerns, for instance,
fared much worse than most analysts had forecast.
   After poring over the fourth-quarter results and
predictions of what's ahead for the first quarter, the
conclusion that analysts tend to reach is this: The economy
has regained consciousness and is on the mend, but remains
bedridden and in need of expert care.
   "The economy is still very sluggish, but there was a
positive underlying tone to the earnings that have come out,"
says James Solloway, director of research at Argus Research.
"My impression is that there has been a tendency toward more
earnings surprises on the upside than the downside, even as
earnings continue to be less than stellar."
   Zacks Investment Research, which compiles analysts'
estimates of corporate earnings and measures them against the
actual results, confirms that impression. Of the 1,750
companies that have reported so far, 53% came in as expected
or better, says Benjamin Zacks, executive vice president,
while 47% were below expectations.
   More important, that trend is expected to continue and
accelerate in 1992, he says. Analysts are forecasting that
first-quarter earnings will be up 6.5% from year-ago levels,
marking the end of year-to-year quarterly earnings declines
that began in the third quarter of 1990. And analysts are
steadily upgrading their forecasts for 1992 earnings. In the
past 30 days, he says, 34% of earnings estimate revisions
have been positive, compared with only 22% positive revisions
a month ago.
   Still, Mr. Zacks suggests that the stock market's
ebullient performance in the past two months in anticipation
of a recovery may have outstripped the economy's ability to
generate corporate earnings that justify high stock prices.
He's concerned that the very cyclical companies reported much
lower-than-expected earnings and that analysts predict
profits at those concerns will continue falling.
   "The down groups in terms of lower-than-estimated earnings
were almost without exception heavy cyclicals," Mr. Zacks
says. "Analysts didn't expect them to show any real
improvement and they certainly didn't. When people ask me if
the market has gotten ahead of itself, I just point to those
results."
   But poor performance among those groups doesn't worry many
other analysts, who argue that "deep cyclicals," as they are
called, always lag in economic recoveries. Indeed, Peter
Canelo, chief market strategist at County NatWest, suggests
that those are precisely the stocks that investors should be
seeking out.
   "The deep cyclicals are still in recession and that's when
you want to buy them," he says. "Bad first-quarter earnings
won't hurt them unless they're really extraordinarily bad,
and unlike early cyclicals such as home builders and
appliances, they haven't been exploited yet. In fact, they're
the only stocks you should buy when the economy is actually
recovering."
   Mr. Solloway agrees that the prospect of a strengthening
recovery in coming months will allow investors to forgive
poor first-quarter results. "Investors can afford some
patience as long as there is a high degree of confidence that
interest rates are going to be stable or move lower," he
says. "There are still problems in the economy that ensure
that the Federal Reserve is going to remain easy and that
helps investors maintain their courage."
   Mr. Canelo predicts that the industry groups with the most
pleasant surprises in the fourth quarter will likely deliver
surprisingly strong earnings in the first quarter, too.
"Unless interest rates go the wrong way, these trends will
persist for more than one quarter," he says.
   And Mr. Solloway cites the improving profit posted by most
banks in the fourth quarter as an important economic
indicator. "The good earnings reports there are a reflection
of the banks' getting their houses in order," he says. "Banks
are in a position now to lend more. While loan demand remains
low right now, low interest rates and just plain competition
will probably force lending to move higher, if not this
quarter, then certainly later this year. That's all part and
parcel of a recovery."
   ---
   Friday Market Activity
                                                                                                       

   Stock prices ended fractionally lower, but far above their
morning lows as optimism about the economy percolated through
the market.
   The Dow Jones Industrial Average, which fell about 20
points from the opening bell, ended off just 0.68 point to
3,245.97. Standard  Poor's 500-Stock Index fell 1.21 to
412.48. Volume on the New York Stock Exchange was heavy, with
214.8 million shares changing hands. Declining issues on the
Big Board topped gainers, 902 to 786. For the week, the Dow
industrials gained 20.57 points.
   Shaken by fears that interest rates were headed higher,
investors pushed stock prices lower in the morning. Some
economic reports in the morning strengthened the budding
belief that the economy is on the mend, a situation in which
investors worry that interest rates are likely to rise. One
key report was the University of Michigan's index of consumer
sentiment, which rose in February to 68.1 from 67.5 in
January.
   But as the day wore on and bond yields began to fall,
investors took a more optimistic view that demand will
increase for cars and the industrial raw materials used to
make them, such as aluminum and steel.
   "It wasn't a bad day, considering that everybody thought
the market was going to go down 100 points," said Dudley
Eppel, senior vice president of equity trading at Donaldson
Lufkin  Jenrette.
   Chrysler gained 1 1/4 to 16 3/8, topping the most active
list on volume of more than 6.2 million shares. Kidder
Peabody upgraded its rating of the stock to "buy" from
"hold." Ford rose 1 7/8 to 36 1/8. General Motors advanced 1
1/2 to 38 1/8.
   Unisys, nearing an agreement with its banks on a new
credit line, jumped 1 1/4 to 10 3/4.
   Living Centers of America was unchanged at 15 3/8. The
nursing-home company offered 7.8 million common shares in an
initial public offering priced at $14.50 a share.
   Belding Heminway jumped 8 3/8 to 37 1/8. The company said
it's considering seeking a buyer or merger partner and has
decided to hire a financial adviser.
   Abbott Laboratories added 1 1/4 to 65. The company
declared a 2-for-1 stock split and raised its quarterly
dividend to 30 cents from 25 cents.
   Singer Co. gained 1 1/2 to 21 3/4. BusinessWeek quoted a
portfolio manager who likes the stock as a good international
play.
   Cooper Tire  Rubber rose 2 1/2 to 49 3/8.
   Wertheim Schroder upgraded its rating on the stock and
added it to its recommended list.