LEISURE  ARTS:
   IMAX in the Rain Forest
   ----
   By Joe Morgenstern
But there are candles and candles. The biggest and
brightest is IMAX, the 70-millimeter movie process that
throws sumptuous, rock-steady images on a screen six stories
tall by 90 feet wide, or, in its OMNIMAX mode, on a huge
dome. One of the best IMAX documentaries is the most recent,
"Tropical Rainforest." Now playing at the Science Museum of
Minnesota in St. Paul, it will be seen at IMAX theaters
around the country later this year.
   This 39-minute film brings viewers closer to the complex
reality of its subject than Mr. Fowles might have thought
possible. What's more, it maintains a scrupulously proper
sense of relationships; not just big and little, though IMAX
is great at dramatizing that, but long and short -- 400
million years for the planet's equatorial rain forests to
evolve, a few decades to bring them to the brink of
destruction.
   "Imagine we're travelers in time," begins the film's
narrator, the genially orotund Geoffrey Holder, "It's 400
million years ago." The first image we see, an immense
tapestry of ferns, could pass for an authentic snapshot of
Earth in its callow youth. As the trip picks up speed (400
million years in 39 minutes requires brisk pacing), the
director, Ben Shedd, who won an Oscar in 1978 for his
documentary "The Flight of the Gossamer Condor," and the
writer, BBC veteran Simon Campbell-Jones, show us, in a
succession of startling close-ups, the growth of the rain
forest's matchless biological diversity.
   A bug chomps loudly on a leaf; giant bug, monster leaf. On
another leaf, ants stagger beneath the weight of veined
fragments that they hoist aloft, then carry on their backs
like enormous sails; as we savor the visual comedy we also
sense the immense physical effort. The camera watches,
unblinking, for a minute and a half as a Ulysses butterfly
struggles from its chrysalis and unfurls its damp and
trembling turquoise wings.
   One measure of how well Mr. Shedd's film succeeds is that
we see these insects on an insect scale. Isn't that true of
all close-ups in modern nature photography? Not really. When
you study a page in Natural History magazine, or watch a
conventional documentary like National Geographic's "Rain
Forest" (same cast of characters, disappointingly flat
narration) on the TV screen, you seem to be peering through a
magnifying glass. But when a spider's web fills the IMAX
screen, and the spider sits calmly at the center of its woven
universe, you feel tiny yourself as you scrutinize the
insect's anatomy, the architecture of the web, the way its
luminous strands span the vast spaces between leaves.
   Given the size of that screen and the camera's 85-pound
weight, Mr. Shedd's film proves remarkably light on its feet.
It roams the treetops of tropical forests in Costa Rica,
Queensland and Malaysia, finding a scarlet macaw at one
moment, and, at another, a biologist on her way up a nylon
rope to study plant growth on the top of the forest's canopy.
   Given the gravity of the situation, however, reverence for
nature and respect for science can go only so far. The most
important point is that rain forests are being destroyed, and
Mr. Shedd makes it powerfully by letting the subject speak
for itself. In the film's most memorable scene, we see a tree
that must be 150 feet tall, and, at its base, a small
creature of the forest. For the next 100 seconds, which seem
an eternity, the same camera that bore witness to a
butterfly's birth studies death on a gargantuan scale, as the
creature, who is nothing if not methodical, makes a circular
incision with his chain saw, and the tree cracks, then tilts,
then breaks, then crashes thunderously, heartstoppingly, to
the forest floor.
   Exactly where this chain-saw massacre took place is not
revealed, but the omission is in keeping with the tone of the
film, which resists familiar polemics. "There aren't any good
guys or bad guys in the story," Mr. Shedd says. "Logging's
going on all around the world. We just asked some of the
people doing the logging if we could come and film, and they
said, `Sure, it's a business we're involved in,' simple as
that."
   Little else about rain forests is simpleleast of all the
politics of saving them. "While doing this film," Mr. Shedd
says, "I observed that I have hardwood floors in my house,
that I use other wood products from the logging industry too.
It's a big, complex, challenging, interconnected issue, in
the same way that the biology of the rain forest is complex
and interconnected."
   The film makes its own trenchant comments on
interconnections. "We're just part of evolution," the
narrator says evenly, "no better than insects, and no worse."
Indeed, the chain-sawing humans seem no more and no less
rapacious than the leaf-eating ants; the ants would also
strip the forest bare if they could. But there's one crucial
difference, which provides the only reason for any optimism.
The ants, having been rigidly programmed to do what they do,
will remain eternal prisoners of their program's rules. As
for us, the narration notes, "We have the tools, and better,
we have the foresight. The future is a time that we can
change."
   ---
   Mr. Morgenstern is a journalist and screen writer in Santa
Monica, Calif.