Heard on the Street:
   Argonaut's Business Is Becalmed, but Analysts
   Say Buoyant Portfolio Makes Stock a Bargain
   ----
   By Craig Torres
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Argonaut's shares fell 3/4 Friday to 25, pricing the stock
at eight times 1992 estimated operating profit of about $3.10
a share. Fox-Pitt Kelton's property and casualty stock group
trades at a multiple of around 12 times operating earnings.
Typically, stocks trade at such "bargain" prices because
investors smell dry rot in the assets. But admirers say
Argonaut is a market anomaly: It's cheap, and the assets look
good.
   "It's an undervalued stock in a market very adequately
priced," says Leon Cooperman, the longtime Goldman Sachs
money manager now running his own firm, Omega Advisors. He
adds: "There's not one penny of junk bonds, no guaranteed
investment contracts, no commercial or residential mortgages
in the {investment} portfolio." Mr. Cooperman has an $11.1
million personal stake in the company and is buying for
Omega's investors.
   Argonaut's $1.6 billion investment portfolio includes $962
million in government bonds with an average maturity of
around four years; $427 million in municipal bonds; $43
million in common stocks, including stakes in Curtiss-Wright,
Federal Paper Board and Litton Industries; $44 million in
preferred stock; and $123 million in corporate bonds. Other
assets include real estate in the Los Angeles area carried at
below market value.
   At the top of the company is 75-year-old Henry E.
Singleton, legendary conglomerater and chairman emeritus of
Teledyne. Fayez Sarofim, another renowned stock picker, sits
on Argonaut's board. About a third of the company's stock is
owned by insiders. Mr. Singleton owns a $116.6 million stake.
Mr. Sarofim and his investment company collectively own $58.7
million of Argonaut shares.
   Argonaut reaped $14.7 million in securities trading profit
in 1991, cashing in on gains in Hanson Trust PLC warrants and
a bet on falling short-term interest rates. "They are very
large common stock investors," says Michael Morrissey,
chairman of Firemark Insurance Research, "and an awful lot of
insurance companies don't have geniuses running the
portfolios" like Argonaut. That said, Mr. Morrissey is quick
to note: "They do suffer a discounted multiple."
   Argonaut's main business is in tough times. "The stock is
not an earnings play, primarily because you don't have much
in the way of top-line growth" in insurance underwriting,
says Mr. Theriault, the insurance analyst. Mr. Morrissey of
Firemark adds: "Nationally, workers' compensation has become
a troubled class of business." Regulators force insurers,
including Argonaut, to underwrite risks they wouldn't
normally accept.
   Finally, competition among general liability firms has
forced rates so low that many insurers are probably going to
incur losses on policies they are writing today, Mr.
Theriault says. So, Argonaut's stock is cheap because many
investors don't think management is deft enough to generate
high returns on equity through a period of low insurance
rates.
   But Messrs. Cooperman, of Goldman Sachs, and Sarofim are
betting on Mr. Singleton, who has a reputation of rewarding
shareholders. Argonaut appears to be working hard for
holders. It deliberately slowed policy-writing as prospects
dimmed, and threw cash into its own stock, buying 327,000
shares. In May it raised its annual payout 28% to 68 cents a
share. But the stock did little.
   The bargain hunter's battle cry is "value will out." The
company has surplus reserves against insurance liabilities,
giving Mr. Singleton about $50 million in capital to play
with, Mr. Theriault says. He could give the surplus to
holders in a fat, one-time dividend of $5 to $7 a share.
   But Mr. Cooperman, who has watched Mr. Singleton for
years, says one-time payouts don't fit the chairman's style.
If the market doesn't reward Argonaut shareholders for owning
a stable of premium assets, management will, he believes.
Rather than sacrifice quality, he thinks the company will
continue to buy back stock, increase dividends and trade the
portfolio shrewdly. "It's hard in today's market to find a
stock selling at book value, and eight times earnings, which
earns a 15% return on equity," Mr. Cooperman says. "Argonaut
has a pristine balance sheet, and a management that's very
shareholder-oriented."
   ---
   Argonaut Group
   (OTC; Symbol: AGII)
                                                                                                       

   Business: Insurance
                                                                                                       

   Year ended Dec. 31, 1991:
   Net Income: $84.4 million, or $3.16 a share
                                                                                                       

   Fourth Quarter, Dec. 31, 1991:
   Per-share earnings: 75 cents vs. 99 cents
                                                                                                       

   Average daily trading volume: 27,108 shares
                                                                                                       

   Commons shares outstanding: 26.6 million
                                                                                                       

   Note: Share earnings adjusted for 3-for-1-stock split paid
in June 1991.
   ---
   Corrections  Amplifications
                                                                                                       

   LEON COOPERMAN is full-time chairman and chief executive
officer of the investment company Omega Advisors Inc., and a
consultant to Goldman, Sachs Asset Management. His
affiliation with Goldman Sachs was misstated in yesterday's
Heard on the Street column.
   (WSJ Feb. 11, 1992)