Legal Morass:
   Hundreds of Businesses
   Wait and Run Up Bills
   As Tort Case Drags On
   ---
   A Lawyer Ties Them Vaguely
   To Steel-Plant Toxicity;
   Injuries Are Vague, Too
   ---
   'Blackmail,' the Defense Says
   ----
   By Christi Harlan
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Mr. Nix's lawyerly curiosity produced what many of his
colleagues believe is the largest toxic-tort litigation
pending in the U.S.: 36 related lawsuits, filed in state
court here on behalf of 2,729 Lone Star Steel employees,
onetime employees and employees' relatives. The suits name
372 companies as defendants, ranging from such giants as
Exxon Corp. and Union Carbide Corp. to the owner of a
hardware store in downtown Daingerfield.
   So many lawyers have flooded into this tiny northeast
Texas town that one hearing, on a requested change of venue,
was moved from the courthouse to the highschool gym. And they
have swamped the Morris County district clerk's office with
some 39,000 documents.
   For Mr. Nix, the litigation is the crucible of a novel
legal theory -- and a chance to reap tens of millions of
dollars in fees. For the defendants and even some of Mr.
Nix's fellow plaintiffs' lawyers, however, the cases are
something else: litigation at its worst, the kind that
inspires derision of lawyers and outraged demands for legal
reform by Vice President Dan Quayle and many others.
   Few would dispute that there is some basis for litigation
here. Some former Lone Star workers are genuinely sick, and
there is some evidence of careless handling of chemicals. But
defendants complain bitterly that many of the plaintiffs'
claims are spurious. They see themselves as victims of a
legal process in which a clever lawyer, aided by the state's
vague productliability laws, can tie them up in costly
litigation for nearly five years without specifying which
companies are alleged to have done what to which plaintiff.
   "This is a perfect example of the abuse of our judicial
system," says Brad Gahm, a vice president of the
reform-minded Texas Association of Business and a lawyer who
once worked on Westinghouse Electric Corp.'s defense in the
case.
   The lawsuits, the first of which was filed on May 15,
1987, allege that chemicals at the Lone Star plant combined
to create a toxic cloud that infected workers with "chemical
AIDS." "This toxic smog," one suit contends, "crept in ever
so quietly like little cats' feet and did permanent damage to
the bodies of the unsuspecting workers." Damages aren't
specified in the suits, but Mr. Nix pegs the total potential
recovery at "hundreds of millions of dollars." Mr. Nix didn't
sue Lone Star Steel, but other defendants have moved to drag
it into the case.
   Neither steelmakers nor the United Steelworkers of America
can think of another steel plant involved in similar
allegations. Nor can Mr. Nix, who takes credit for devising
the theory. "There's not any litigation that I can think of
for such a broad array of illnesses and chemical exposure,"
he says. That, he explains, is because "no one had recognized
the causal connection" between steelworkers' illnesses and
products they worked with.
   But defendant companies argue that there isn't any similar
litigation because Mr. Nix plucked his theory out of thin air
-- thin clean air, they assert. The defendants deny that
their products contributed any toxicity to the atmosphere at
the mill or any illness in the community. Among the companies
accused of contributing to the alleged toxic smog, they point
out, are makers of felt-tip markers and picnic tables. Other
companies are accused of exacerbating the problem by, some
suits say, "taking company vehicles, and in some cases,
personal vehicles, onto the premises each day, adding to the
pollution of the work environment."
   If the workplace was so polluted, defendants ask, why have
medical tests shown that only one-fourth of the plaintiffs
suffer from work-related illnesses? They add that all of
those ailments involve asbestos, a product whose hazards are
well-established. At the Lone Star mill, asbestos curtains,
for example, were used to protect workers at the open hearth.
   The defendants suggest that most of the workers' health
complaints are probably due more to old age and a diet filled
with chicken-fried steak and mashed potatoes. "Whatever built
up cholesterol in their blood streams wasn't the defendants'
products," Robert M. Martin Jr., a defense attorney, argues.
   Nevertheless, the defendants' liability insurers have
already had to shell out millions of dollars of fees to some
150 law firms. And the end isn't in sight: Mr. Nix doesn't
expect the first jury to be picked for another two years.
   Even more galling to defendants is the fact that many
still don't know what they are specifically accused of; Mr.
Nix has refused to narrow his allegations. Suits making
similarly broad allegations have been dismissed in courts
elsewhere, but state district Judge B.D. Moye hasn't granted
any of the defendants' repeated requests for more specific
pleadings. Appeals by the defendants have been unsuccessful.
The 62-year-old judge, who was first elected to the bench 15
years ago, declines to be interviewed about the cases.
   Mr. Nix says he will make more specific allegations after
he completes his fact-finding, which includes combing through
40 years and 14 million pages of the mill's receipts and
purchase orders. "This is blackmail," says William Wilde,
counsel to a committee of defendants and insurers that is
working on common defense issues. "This is a perversion of
our justice system."
   A Westinghouse spokesman says neither Westinghouse nor Mr.
Nix has been able to produce any records showing that welding
rods manufactured by Westinghouse were sold for use at Lone
Star Steel. Yet the company remains a defendant.
   Other defendants, who know that their products were used
at the steel mill, are still waiting to learn which specific
plaintiffs are accusing them, since not all of the plaintiffs
came in contact with all of the products. "We don't know
who's suing us or why they're suing us," says R.W. Blair, a
co-founder of Jones-Blair Co., a closely held Dallas paint
maker that supplied pipe varnish to Lone Star Steel. "My
frustration limits were exceeded some time ago on this legal
business."
   Like most of the defense teams, JonesBlair's lawyers were
hired by the company's liability insurer, so the company
isn't directly bearing all of the defense costs. And because
resolution of the cases remains so distant, the company
hasn't had to project the effect of potential damages on
earnings. Estimating that risk wouldn't be easy, anyway: Mr.
Nix is insisting on jury trials, and juries are notoriously
unpredictable. So is the amount of insurance coverage for
each defendant because policy limits can vary widely.
   Nonetheless, the litigation is a constant irritant to
defendants. Warren Nilsson, who owns one of the two Morris
County businesses the litigation cites, says his warehouse,
which stored alloys used by Lone Star Steel, was named in the
first lawsuits filed back in May 1987. Subsequent suits have
named his holding company, Irvin Enterprises Inc., which also
owns oil jobbers that supplied Lone Star Steel, a couple of
tire stores and the downtown hardware store.
   And which business is Mr. Nilsson's insurer defending?
After all this time, he still doesn't know. "Why we're in it,
I don't know," he says. "It's puzzling." Mr. Nix says Irvin
Enterprises is a defendant because its units "supplied many,
many, many toxic products through the years" -- an allegation
that befuddles Mr. Nilsson. He says he was worked around
those chemicals for 20 years and isn't sick. Asked about the
allegations that his fellow citizens were poisoned by a toxic
cloud, Mr. Nilsson says cautiously, "Everyone I know around
here is healthy."
   The motivation for many of the lawsuits, defense attorneys
contend, relates to the declining fortunes of the steel
plant. For almost 40 years, Morris County thrived, thanks
entirely to Lone Star Steel. During the oil boom of the late
1970s and early 1980s, when the demand for steel pipe for
drilling equipment was great, the mill employed 6,000
workers, equal to almost half of the county's population of
13,000. But the pipe business cratered with the oil industry,
wiping out thousands of jobs.
   "We went from a pocket of prosperity in '82 -- fat cats,
whatever you want to call us -- to a pocket of poverty in a
year," says James W. Smith, mayor of Lone Star, a town close
to Daingerfield and the site of the steel mill. The steel
company itself, a unit of Dallas-based Lone Star Technologies
Inc., agreed to bankruptcy-court reorganization at the behest
of its bank lenders in 1989 and emerged from the proceedings
last year. The mill now employs fewer than 1,000 people, and
unemployment in the county stands at 18.7% of the work force,
or more than 2 1/2 times the Texas average of 6.8%.
   The job losses created the perfect climate for Mr. Nix's
litigation, defense lawyers believe. Until he filed the first
lawsuit, only a handful of workers' compensation claims and
asbestosis cases had been litigated on behalf of Lone Star
Steel employees. That fact helps fuel the cynicism of defense
lawyers; so does the lack of medical evidence linking the
health complaints to a defendant's products.
   Mr. Nix dismisses complaints about the ambiguity as not
unusual in the types of personal-injury cases in which he
specializes. They're a lucrative specialty for the urbane
lawyer, who employs seven of the county's 12 licensed
attorneys and earns enough to be a regular donor to statewide
Democratic candidates, often at $10,000 a pop. He also
financed the early stages of the Lone Star Steel litigation.
   You wouldn't discern his wealth from visiting his office,
however. With its vinylcovered chairs and boxes of records
and charts, the nerve center of the Lone Star Steel
litigation looks more like a public health clinic than a
prosperous law firm.
   The cases could make Mr. Nix even wealthier. Already, his
firm has earned about $4.8 million from $16 million of
settlements by seven defendants (it works on a contingency
basis, collecting about 30% of whatever its clients win). He
says the firm has plowed its share of the money back into
investigations related to the cases.
   With his strategy in the cases, the 52-year-old Morris
County native quickly proved he isn't some bumbling backwater
barrister. He didn't sue Lone Star Steel for its workers'
alleged injuries: Injury complaints against employers are
relegated to the unwieldy Texas workers' compensation system,
where workers' recoveries could be limited. He also avoided
suing in federal court, where rules are less favorable to
plaintiffs in personal-injury cases. And he didn't seek
class-action status -- which also requires stricter proof
from complainants -- because "there are no two plaintiffs who
have the exact same cause of action," he says.
   That in itself is amazing, because Mr. Nix decided early
in the litigation that he would sign up any Lone Star Steel
worker with a health complaint. In most toxic-tort cases,
lawyers concentrate on the strongest -- and most
emotionally-appealing cases. But as a longstanding resident,
he says it wouldn't have been fair to turn anyone away.
"That's when people, by word of mouth -- the neighbors and
the brothers started coming in," he says.
   As a result, Mr. Nix's clients include the sorts of
plaintiffs that outrage defendants and critics of U.S.
courts. Among them: a man who worked 15 days at Lone Star
Steel 22 years ago; another who worked there only for the
month of September 1964; and the family of a worker killed in
a one-car accident in 1965.
   But Mr. Nix insists serious illnesses are involved. He
estimates that about a third of the plaintiffs are suffering
from asbestos-related ailments. About 1,500 to 1,600
claimants have undergone tests required by three
asbestos-makers that have agreed to compensate asbestos
victims. So far, about 700 to 800 of them have some type of
asbestos-related illness.
   Defense attorneys have asked for mandatory medical testing
of all plaintiffs by 1993, to establish once and for all what
the ailments are and what may have caused them. Such tests
would "eliminate those hundreds of plaintiffs who aren't sick
and eliminate about half of the defendants," suggests Mr.
Martin, whose clients include Martin Marietta Corp. "This
should have been done a long time ago."
   But Mr. Nix and his associates resist the testing
suggestion. Under their "chemical AIDS" theory, some workers'
illnesses won't show up for years, they contend. "They
deserve medical monitoring," argued Nelson Roach, one of Mr.
Nix's associates, at a recent court hearing on the
defendants' request for medical tests. Such monitoring is
sometimes provided for in settlements of toxic-injury cases.
   Medical monitoring might help ease the minds of plaintiffs
such as R.B. Jefferson, who worked 29 1/2 years on the open
hearth at Lone Star Steel before retiring in 1982. His
brother, another longtime steelworker, died of cancer, and
Mr. Jefferson says "cancer's a possibility for anyone." But
for now, his major health complaints are hearing loss and
"slight, emphysema-like" breathing problems, and his former
workplace is the most likely source of those ailments, he
figures. "I don't remember seeing any chemical labeled," he
says.
   Another retiree and plaintiff, Pat Turner, was
hard-pressed to remember any manufacturers' labels on the
paint thinners and other solvents he worked with during his
20-plus years at Lone Star Steel; as a result, he spent more
than three days being questioned by defense lawyers in
October. During the questioning, he said he didn't think
about the health hazards of his job until the first lawsuits
were filed.
   "I began to read and make studies on these things," he
testified. "I came to the belief that (the products) could
and probably were a contributing factor to my health
problems." Mr. Turner has had two heart operations and other
surgery. And although he hasn't consulted a doctor in
connection with his work, he adamantly defended his right to
sue. "I was convinced I was right," he said.
   Such vague allegations and seeming lack of medical
evidence rile critics of Texas' civil-justice system. "We
have a drastically inadequate system for determining
products' liability," says Mr. Gahm of the Texas Association
of Business. Of course, Texas isn't the only state under fire
for allegedly pro-plaintiff liability statutes, and Vice
President Quayle seeks to limit untested medical theories and
the damages plaintiffs can collect in product-liability
cases. But Texas does have a reputation for breeding cases
such as the Lone Star Steel litigation, and the state is a
favorite target of reformers.
   A statutory definition of a defective product would help
prevent speculative cases such as the Lone Star Steel
litigation, Mr. Gahm says, as would a standard for
determining negligence in an injury case. Texas law lacks
both, and Mr. Gahm's group has spent four years in what he
calls "a fevered battle" to wrest such definitions from the
Texas legislature. "What we're trying to do would directly
affect Harold Nix," he says.
   But the debate over legal reform, however heated in the
state capital, doesn't mean much to this hardscrabble county
and its efforts to reconstruct its shattered economy. Mayor
Smith blames the litigation for the area's inability to
attract new employers, despite such moves as establishing a
tax-abated enterprise zone. "All of a sudden, we've got a
reputation, deserved or not," he says.
   But Mr. Smith, who retired as director of industrial
relations after 32 years with Lone Star Steel, doesn't blame
the workers for suing. "The people are hurting," he says. "If
they can pick up $3,000 (from a settlement or verdict), that
would be great. . . . If I'd been laid off and hadn't done my
investments, I might have signed up."
   However, he hopes that the litigation will be settled or
moved from Morris County-neither of which seems likely.
   "A lot of the defendants are really aggravated about being
in this lawsuit, so they're not willing to pay nuisance value
or any value" to settle, says Hubert Crouch, a Dallas defense
lawyer and chairman of the defense steering committee.
   As for moving the case, Judge Moye has declined to change
the venue once and is withholding a decision on a second
request until the lawyers attempt to seat the first jury.
Defense attorneys contend that seating an impartial jury will
be nearly impossible in a county where nearly half the
potential jurors are either plaintiffs or relatives of
plaintiffs. Last month, the defendants urged the judge to
rule on the venue change soon, reminding him of comments by
potential jurors in a November 1990 survey by the Gallup
Organization.
   Among those comments: "It has caused a lot of cancer and
has made the environment very unhealthy," said one
respondent. "I heard that they didn't tell the workers that
the chemicals were dangerous, and it's these chemicals
causing the illness and death," said another. Still another
potential juror had heard "that many people have died because
of a ruthless, profit-hungry company." All of those
statements came from people who also said they could make "a
fair and impartial judgment" in the case.
   Mr. Nix contends that an impartial jury can be seated
here. Doug Jacobs, vice president of United Steelworkers
Local 4134 and a maintenance worker at Lone Star Steel who is
also a plaintiff, doesn't think the defendants will find any
better place. "Regardless of where they go, there's going to
be a certain amount of working people," he says.
   Mr. Jacobs, who is seeking compensation for "lots of joint
problems" and 10 years of headaches, says he isn't expecting
a windfall from the litigation. "I'm not out buying a new car
counting on the money," he says. "In my mind, I can see this
going on quite a while."
   That's putting it mildly. Defense lawyers have completed
pretrial fact-finding interviews, called depositions, of just
79 of the 2,729 plaintiffs, working two weeks each month in
the cavernous union hall in Lone Star. Each plaintiff is
questioned by as many as 15 lawyers representing various
groups of products made by defendants. And because the
depositions provide the defendants' only opportunity, so far,
to narrow the allegations, some plaintiffs have been
questioned for three days.
   "At this rate, we should finish deposing the plaintiffs in
38 years," says Jim Cowles, a Dallas lawyer representing six
defendants. "My clients are being held hostage in Morris
County."