Heard on the Street:
   Brokerage-House Stocks
   Giving Signs of Cresting
   ----
   By John R. Dorfman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Aren't General Motors and IBM supposed to be the
bellwethers? They used to be, says New York money manager
Robert Stovall, but both companies are "wounded" and no
longer reliably predict overall market movements. The zigs
and zags of brokerage stocks, he says, better presage future
market moves.
   Last year, the stocks were terrific. Their 111% gain was
second only to the 142% rise turned in by the biotechnology
issues in the Dow Jones Equity Index. But since mid-January,
Merrill Lynch  Co. has declined 12%, PaineWebber Inc. 11%
and Bear Stearns Cos. 7.9%. If the weakness persists, it
could be a sign of trouble ahead for the broader market.
   For the most part, analysts employed by the brokerage
houses themselves expect good times to roll on. Trading
volume so far this year has been heavy, and the calendar of
new stock and bond issues is fat. Though they aren't allowed
to recommend their own stocks, brokerage houses are currently
fond of one another. Five out of six analysts who follow
Merrill Lynch rate it a buy, according to Zacks Investment
Research. Three of five like PaineWebber, and four of six
like Bear Stearns.
   Yesterday, most brokerage shares closed fractionally
higher, perhaps reflecting the inclusion of a proposed
capital-gains-tax cut in President Bush's economic plan.
   But detractors see clouds hanging over the group. They
wonder how 1992 possibly can match 1991. They point to
insider selling in some of the stocks. And they fret over
rumblings in Washington about boosting Wall Street's tax bill
by raising the tax on securities held by brokerage firms.
   Charles M. Vincent, who follows brokerage stocks for PNC
Financial in Philadelphia, says it's too late to buy the
brokerage stocks. He isn't telling his money managers to sell
yet, just to stand very close to the door. "Since 1991 was a
very strong year, 1992 comparisons are going to be on the
difficult side," he says.
   Brokerage houses have enjoyed several "stimulants," Mr.
Vincent notes: heavy issuance of new stocks and bonds, a bull
market with large trading volume, and lots of volatility,
which helps houses make money trading for their own accounts.
"I can't guarantee that {those stimulants} are going to
persist through the year," he says.
   Joseph Granville, the Kansas City market pundit,
recommended the group in December 1990 when few others would
touch it. His followers have been rewarded for his gutsy
stand: Most of the stocks have more than doubled. But now Mr.
Granville thinks the group has had it.
   "We got a major sell signal on Merrill Lynch" this week,
he says. "In the face of record earnings, the stock broke key
chart support at 60." Now that the stock has fallen below 60,
a level at which previous recent declines had been arrested,
he predicts it will fall to the neighborhood of 48. Yesterday
it was quoted at $58.50, up 7/8, in late New York Stock
Exchange composite trading.
   Mr. Granville says the "same idea" applies to Bear Stearns
("a top around 21"), PaineWebber ("It tops out at 27"), and
A.G. Edwards ("a definite peak here above 40"). "Remember,"
he says, brokerage stocks "were one of the first groups to
turn bullish. Now it looks like they are showing the other
side of the coin."
   The insider trades in some brokerage stocks do raise the
question of whether the group may be near a peak. Insiders at
several firms have pared their holdings in recent weeks,
though in most cases the sellers kept far more shares than
they sold.
   At PaineWebber, Chairman Donald Marron sold 40,000 shares
in October and November, keeping 369,962; last week he filed
plans to sell 50,000. Retired President Donald Nickelson sold
his entire stake of more than 100,000 shares, and director
John Bult sold all his 15,000 shares. A company spokesman
says all three people still have "significant" holdings in
the form of stock options, convertible debentures and
restricted stock.
   At Bear Stearns, eight insiders, including Chairman Alan
C. Greenberg and President James E. Cayne, have sold about
1.7 million shares since late December. As previously
reported, Mr. Cayne said, "I've never felt better about Bear
Stearns. . . . The place is rolling." The other seven
insiders declined to comment.
   At Merrill Lynch, David Komansky, the executive vice
president who heads the firm's equity markets division, sold
40,000 shares in November, leaving himself with 97,722. He
said at the time that most of his net worth was in Merrill
shares and he was diversifying.
   "These guys are pretty seasoned market sorts," says Robert
Gabele, president of Invest/Net, a Fort Lauderdale, Fla.,
firm that tracks insider trades. "Maybe it's telling us that
the market is high here." The last time Bear Stearns insiders
sold in force was in 1986-87, before the crash, he says. And
Merrill's Mr. Komansky has been a shrewd timer. He bought
17,000 Merrill Lynch shares at $17.375 apiece, near the
bottom of the market in October 1990.
   Mr. Gabele says he sees insider buying in some regional
firms, such as McDonald  Co., Jefferies Group and Interstate
Johnson Lane. But the bulk of the activity at larger firms is
selling.
   Such considerations don't discourage bulls like Dean
Eberling, an analyst with Shearson Lehman Brothers. Low
interest rates will keep pushing investors into the stock
market, he believes, and the brokerage business has done a
better job than usual of keeping costs in check. "The head
count in 1991 {was} flat, maybe a 1% uptick," he says.
   And he expects perhaps 500 initial public offerings of
stock this year, compared with 360 last year and 174 the year
before.
   Mr. Stovall, the New York money manager, thinks that
people who own the stocks should hang on a while longer. He
believes President Bush will get Congress to swallow the
capital-gains-tax cut, and "that always has a positive effect
on the financial service business."
   Of 10 brokerage house stocks shown in the accompanying
table, eight are selling at well above book value, or a
company's assets minus liabilities per share. The two
exceptions are Salomon Inc. and Jefferies Group Inc., both
depressed by the lingering effects of a scandal. Salomon
admitted violating rules for bidding in U.S. Treasury
auctions. Boyd Jefferies, the founder of Jefferies Group,
left the firm in April 1987 and pleaded guilty to two felony
counts for breaking securities laws.
   Little Jefferies Group may be the bigger bargain. The
firm's revenue, which fell after the scandal, is climbing
again. Earnings recently came in above expectations, the firm
plans a stock buy-back, and company insiders, including
Chairman Frank Baxter, have been buying.