Law -- Legal Beat:
   Firms Cutting Entry-Level Hiring
   By as Much as 15% in Some Cities
   ----
   By Junda Woo and Jonathan M. Moses
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
Even the biggest-name law firms are scaling back. In Los
Angeles, O'Melveny  Myers, for example, plans next fall to
take on 19 first-year associates, a sharp drop from the 42
hired the year before. Gibson, Dunn  Crutcher's fall hiring
list is 15% shorter than it was last year, and the summer
intern roster will be down 25%.
   "You sort of hedge your bets," said Kenneth W. Anderson,
former hiring committee chairman for Gibson Dunn. "Lawfirm
growth is a much more uncertain thing, at least in the near
term."
   In New York, 1,000-lawyer Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher 
Flom, one of the fastest-growing firms of the 1980s, is
adding 37 new associates, down from 52 last fall. "We're much
too big not to be affected by a general downturn in the
economy," said firm executive partner Peter P. Mullen.
   On average, large New York firms will hire 29 law
graduates as associates next fall, down from 34 last year,
according to a survey by the New York Law Journal. New York
firms, in particular, are suffering from the decline in the
mergers-and-acquisitions wars of recent years and a
corresponding drop in the need for "foot soldiers," said
Robert J. Kafin, administrative partner for Proskauer Rose
Goetz  Mendelsohn. "The shape of the practice has changed,
so that your staffing requirements are different," he said.
   In addition, with the job market tighter, lawyers are
staying at their firms longer than in the past. With turnover
down as much as 50%, firms can't replenish the ranks from the
bottom as easily, said Steven H. Davis, hiring partner at
LeBoeuf, Lamb, Leiby  MacRae. His firm will add five fewer
first-year associates than it did last year.
   Elsewhere in the country, Ropes  Gray in Boston will add
23 new associates, down from 25. In Houston, Baker  Botts
will take on about 25, instead of 30. The number is "on the
low end of our usual range," said Stanley C. Beyer, chairman
of Baker  Botts's employment committee.
   Entering classes will be down more at big firms than at
smaller ones, even on a percentage basis, said Joel Henning,
senior vice president of Hildebrandt Inc., a legal consulting
firm. "The large firms that were so highly leveraged in the
'80s are finding that they can't sustain that," he said. "The
smaller firms tend to go to the well only when it's needed,
so there's less variation."
   Law students' first inkling of the drop in hiring came
earlier in the school year, when they discovered that fewer
law-firm recruiters were visiting campuses. "Everyone used to
be able to get 25 to 30 interviews if they wanted them," said
Jacqueline Brady, a third-year law student at the University
of California at Berkeley. These days, she said, third-year
students are lucky to garner interviews with 10 firms.
   Predictably, reduced demand for new lawyers has made firms
choosier about whom they hire. Benjamin F. Spater, who will
receive a master's degree in tax law this year from New York
University, said he has run into resistance from some law
firms because he has a B-plus average, which until recently
was considered good enough. "Now people just wait for people
who have got all A's," he said. "It's just impossible."
   ---
   UNIVERSITY MAY REQUIRE students to contribute to
activities fund, court rules.
   The decision by a federal appeals court panel in Manhattan
concerned a dispute over a policy of the State University of
New York at Albany. The university required every student to
contribute to a student activities fund, even though that
money might go to organizations promoting ideas with which
individual students disagreed.
   In backing the policy, the court said that the
university's interest in promoting "campus debate on a
variety of issues" outweighed the concerns of individual
students.
   Eleven students had sued SUNY Albany because they didn't
want any of the money they gave to the activities fund to go
to a lobbying group, New York Public Interest Research Group
Inc. The students said they opposed the group, so forcing
them to contribute to it violated their First Amendment
rights.
   But in a 33-page opinion, Judge Irving Kaufman wrote,
"SUNY Albany's interest in sponsoring and maintaining a
thriving campus forum of vigorous advocacy and political
action is itself of consitutional dimensions." The decision
was one of the last written by Judge Kaufman before his death
earlier this month.
   The ruling came one month after a California state appeals
court affirmed a similar policy of the University of
California at Berkeley. However, the federal appeals court
imposed a limitation not present in the California decision.
It said that the public interest research group had to use
the money it raised from the student fund on activities at
the SUNY Albany campus and not on general expenses of the
statewide organization.
   The appeals court sent the case back to the district court
so that it could develop a way to make sure the money is
spent on campus.
   (Carroll vs. Blinken, Second U.S. Circuit Court of
Appeals, New York, 917877)
   ---
   NOTED: A Miami psychiatrist who determined the mental
states of criminal defendants and then pleaded insanity in
his own criminal case will get a new trial, a state appeals
court ruled last week. Michael Gilbert was sentenced to a
year in jail and 18 months of house arrest last April after
he was found guilty of trying to bribe a police officer to
concoct a cocaine scheme against one of Mr. Gilbert's
enemies. The Associated Press reported that the conviction
was overturned because a prospective juror had told attorneys
before the trial that her friendship with police might affect
her impartiality, but she was seated on the jury nonetheless.