Credit Markets:
   World Bank Offers $1.9 Billion of Yen Bonds
   And Meets With Strong International Demand
   ----
   By Constance Mitchell and Tony McAuley
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
Kenneth G. Lay, director of financial operations at the
World Bank, said buyers of the bonds consisted largely of
international investors that manage multicurrency portfolios.
Although demand for yen bonds has grown rapidly in recent
years, many international money managers "found existing yen
bonds inconvenient to deal in and expensive to hold and
trade," said Mr. Lay. These problems stem largely from the
Japanese government's imposition of withholding taxes on
interest payments made on bonds issued in the country. The
World Bank global bonds would not be subject to the
withholding tax.
   The World Bank, which is headquartered in Washington,
D.C., has issued global bonds since 1989. But all of its
previous global bond offerings were denominated in U.S.
dollars.
   The World Bank borrows in major markets around the world
and uses the proceeds to make loans to developing countries.
   It also was a big day for the new bond issues in the U.S.
market, where about $1.5 billion of corporate bonds were sold
and about $1.4 billion of new municipal bonds were offered.
Among major U.S. issuers yesterday were consumer and food
concern Procter  Gamble Co., photography concern Polaroid
Corp. and oil concern Mobil Corp.
   Although demand for the World Bank's global yen bonds was
strong, the price of the securities gyrated. Traders said the
prices of the bonds rose as high as 99.31 shortly after they
began trading in London. But later in the day, dealers quoted
the bonds as low as 99.11.
   Traders attributed the price volatility to speculators and
short-term traders looking for a quick profit. One dealer in
London said that each time the bonds tried to rally, there
was "successive selling." The dealer said "spivs," (very
short-term investors) were happy to sell the bonds for a
small profit.
   The World Bank bonds also were pulled down by the broader
yen bond market, which was depressed by rumors that several
other borrowers are lining up to sell larger Euroyen
offerings and by worries that the value of the yen will
continue to decline against the dollar. When the yen weakens,
the value of securities denominated in the security also
weakens.
                                                                                                       

   Treasury Securities
                                                                                                       

   Prices of U.S. Treasurys ended lower, succumbing to a late
sell-off in the futures pit in Chicago.
   Bond prices had traded modestly higher in tight ranges for
most of the day before selling kicked in shortly before the 3
p.m. EST close of bond futures trading.
   Traders say there was disappointment that the June futures
bond contract didn't rise beyond a key price level, or
so-called resistance area -- said to be between 99 16/32 and
99 20/32. That, traders add, caused many bond futures
participants to square positions by selling contracts.
   "It was an area where a lot of people felt the market
could move up from, and when it failed to do that, people
just started exiting the market," says James Kenney, trading
manager at Prudential Securities Inc. The June Treasury bond
contract settled at 99 7/32, down 1/8 from Monday's close,
after trading between 99 4/32 and 99 20/32.
   Meanwhile, the bond market's bellwether security, the
30-year Treasury bond, fell more than 1/4 point, a loss of
more than $2.50 for a bond with a $1,000 face amount. The
issue's yield, which moves in the opposite direction of its
price, rose to 7.90% from 7.87% Monday. The benchmark bond
was quoted late at price of 100 1/32, down from 101 11/32
Monday.
   The lack of any significant new economic information
allowed the technicians -- those who plot price patterns on
charts to divine future trends -- to exert most of the
influence on trading yesterday.
                                                                                                       

   Corporates  Junk Bonds
                                                                                                       

   The market for new corporate debt sprang back to life
yesterday as more than $1.5 billion of new corporate debt was
sold. That was up sharply from Monday's $190 million
issuance.
   Polaroid was among the companies offering new debt. The
Cambridge, Mass., camera maker offered $200 million of
seven-year notes priced to yield 8.18%, or 1.11 percentage
points above the Treasury's seven-year note.
   Phil Ruddick, Polaroid's director of treasury operations,
said the company came to market in an effort to lock in
recent declines in interest rates.
   In trading yesterday, prices of most investment-grade
corporate debt declined 1/8 to 1/4 point, after registering
small gains earlier in the session.
   Junk bond prices, however, advanced. Among major movers
were the bonds of Mesa Inc., the oil and gas producer in
Amarillo, Texas. Mesa Capital's 12% subordinated notes, due
in 1996, were quoted late at 76, up 5 1/2 points from Monday.
Mesa's 13.5% subordinated notes, due 1999, were quoted at 81,
up 5 3/4 points from Monday.
   The bonds rose after a U.S. District Court in California
denied a motion to freeze $145 million of the company's
capital pending resolution of a lawsuit. The plaintiff in the
lawsuit alleges that Mesa received more profits than it was
entitled to from the company's investment in Unocal Corp. in
1986 and asked the court to freeze Mesa's assets.
                                                                                                       

   Municipal Bonds
                                                                                                       

   Prices of some Massachusetts general obligation bonds rose
as much as 1/2 point yesterday, with investor buying spurred
by positive news about the state's credit rating.
   Standard  Poor's Corp. placed Massachusetts' triple-B
rating on its CreditWatch surveillance list with positive
implications, citing the state's improved finances. SP also
noted that an upgrade to the single-A category is possible
during the third quarter of 1992 if Massachusetts continues
to produce balanced budgets and limit short-term borrowing.
The action affects about $4 billion of GO debt and $2 billion
of agency debt.
   Massachusetts GOs currently are rated Baa by Moody's
Investors Service Inc. An upgrade to single-A by SP would be
significant for Massachusetts, which now carries the lowest
GO bond ratings of any state.
   Late yesterday, Massachusetts GOs, the 7% issues of 2010,
were quoted at 100 3/4 to yield 6.92%.
   "I think this is what a lot of people have been waiting
for. I think the legislators will cut this out, put it under
their pillows and dream happy thoughts," a portfolio manager
said of the rating comment.
   Elsewhere, more than $1.9 billion of municipal debt poured
into the market yesterday where it received a mixed review
from investors. Yield-hungry buyers were attracted to New
York state's offering of $220.6 million of general obligation
bonds. The bonds, won by a Bear, Stearns  Co. group, were
priced to yield from 4.50% in 1994 to 6.90% in 2012-2022.
   In addition, favorable demand allowed underwriters at
Merrill Lynch  Co. to reprice the day's largest offering,
$465 million of Connecticut GOs. The repricing lowered the
top yield on the deal by 0.04 percentage points to 6.61%.
   In contrast, buyers were slow to pick up bonds from
Illinois's $400 million offering. As a result, more than half
of the deal, or about $224 million, was unsold late
yesterday.
   In trading yesterday, prices of most municipals
languished, finishing flat to 1/8 point higher after a
session of limited trade.
                                                                                                       

   Mortgage  Asset-Backed Securities
                                                                                                       

   Prices of mortgage securities ended lower.
   Among active issues, Government National Mortgage
Association 8% securities for March delivery were down 6/32
at 99 10/32, Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp. Gold 8%
securities were down 3/32 at 98 31/32 and Federal National
Mortgage Association 8% securities were off 3/32 at 99 1/32.
   In the primary market, two new real estate mortgage
investment conduit issues were announced from Fannie Mae.
   Bear, Stearns  Co. announced Fannie Mae 1992-60, a $300
million issue backed by 7.5% seven-year balloon loans.
   Donaldson, Lufkin  Jenrette Securities Corp. announced
Fannie Mae 1992-59, a $200 million Remic using 15-year 8.5%
issues.