LEISURE  ARTS -- On Sports:
   Schussing and Sliding; U.S. Finishes `Good' Games
   ----
   By Frederick C. Klein
Acklin is a well-enough set-up young Swiss bobsledder
(6-foot-2, 215 pounds), but his overall credentials are
unimposing. "Does he play other sports?" echoed a Swiss
journalist I queried. "I don't think so. Why should he?"
   Off the results of the two-man bobsled competition that
day at lofty La Plagne, the fellow's question was apt,
because Acklin wound up with a gold medal, while Walker had
none. Not only did the Swiss sled he pushed beat the
Walker-pushed, seventh-place Yanks, but it out-started the
U.S. sled in three of the four heats as well, meaning that
Acklin outpushed Walker. One can only conclude that Acklin, a
child of the Alps, knows something the Georgia-raised
Herschel doesn't.
   It is well to keep the above example in mind when
assessing the results of the 16th Winter Olympics that
concluded here Sunday. Yes, the U.S. had a good Games in
relative terms, with its 11 medals, and five golds, amounting
to the best showing since it won 12, with six golds, as the
home team at Lake Placid, N.Y., in 1980. But others on this
planet are far more at home in the ice and snow than we are.
   I mean the newly unified Germans, who topped the medal
list with 26, and the newly disunified ex-Soviets who, as the
ludicrously -- and no doubt temporarily-named Unified Team
from the Commonwealth of Independent States, were second with
23. I really mean the Austrians and Norwegians, who made off
with 21 and 20 medals, respectively.
   If you figure national medals on a percapita basis, the
only fair way, the Norwegians, with a population of about 4.1
million according to my almanac, won one medal for each
205,000 inhabitants and the Austrians one per 357,000, while
the German figure was one per three million and the ex-Sovs
one per 11 million or so. US? About one per 23 million.
   And as at every quadrennium, the athletically patriotic
among us should be grateful that a few hardy and red-cheeked
lads and lasses (mostly lasses -- they won nine of our
baubles) are willing to endure long hours of chilly practice
in obscure sports in order to shine at the Winter Os. You
probably could hold a convention of all the serious
speed-skaters, lugers, bobsledders, curlers, biathletes and
ski jumpers in this land in the Holiday Inn in Bemidji and
still have a few vacant rooms.
   (Such is not the case with skiing. An estimated 10 million
Americans partake of this sport -- more than there are people
in Norway, Austria, Switzerland or Sweden -- yet the U.S.
medal take here was two Alpine silvers, and that was two more
than we won in 1988 at Calgary. Those who oversee the sport
say that most of the better athletes in our mountain states
are, like others, bewitched by the big-bucks lure of
baseball, basketball, football, tennis and golf. But you'd
still think that some of them could be persuaded to schuss
seriously. Maybe distributing an unexpurgated biography of
Alberto Tomba might help convert some of the boys.)
   Withal, though, these Games were a success in the
most-important way, which is to say that for 16 days the
doings on the rinks and slopes took precedence over other
concerns. The Winter Olympics generally have been spared
extraneous political hassles -- would-be protesters don't
like the thought of getting their feet cold, I guess -- but
in this one the count was near zero.
   I say "near" because of an incident in which the French
telecast of the opening ceremony was interrupted briefly
because a cable had been cut. Someone from a group calling
itself the COUIC phoned Agency Presse France to claim
responsibility. The caller said the initials stood for the
Coordination of the Offensive Using Interruptions and
Outages, and the action was aimed at protesting the
"techno-junk" baggage of the Games. That sounded like a joke
to me. It also sounded like something many of us could get
behind.
   Also near zero was the tally of controversies stemming
from actions by athletes or officials of the contesting
nations; I can't think of another Olympics -- summer or
winter -- that went so smoothly.
   Again I say "near" because of an incident involving Dan
Quayle, our vice president in charge of attending major
sporting events. The afternoon of the opening ceremony, Mr.
Quayle showed up for lunch at an athletes' housing compound
in the village of Brides Les Bains with an entourage of
protectors and co-celebrants numbering about 50 -- twice as
many as were expected -- and the town's mayor who had come to
welcome him, and others, said they were roughed up in the
crush. I, too, have been shoved around in the wake of a
Quayle visit to a sports event (last year's NCAA-basketball
Final Four at Indianapolis), and can't help wondering if I
help pay the bills for those trips.
   The French, generally, gave a wonderful account of
themselves in staging these Games. Thanks to weather that was
rarely bad at the wrong time or place, events went off pretty
much as scheduled, and efforts to keep the narrow Alpine
roads clear of traffic succeeded, albeit at the cost of
holding down attendance at the more-distant venues. The
opening ceremony was spectacular, the best show I've seen
since the Cirque du Soleil, which, by the way, is Canadian.
   Praise-worthy, too, were organizers' moves to hold down
costs by building temporary facilities for some events. (The
land under the speed-skating oval, for example, will be
turned into a soccer field, with the refrigeration equipment
shipped off to Japan.) Who says you have to go broke to have
an Olympics?
   And speaking of going broke, a tear should be shed for the
merchants of Albertville and environs, who geared up for lots
of business but, by all accounts, got little. Some of the
blame should fall on the International Olympic Committee,
which puts a hammerlock on host-area hotel reservations years
in advance of a Games, taking it off only after many
potential tourists have been scared away. It's doing this in
Barcelona, too.
   As for athletic heroes, there were many, as usual. The
races against the clock that dominate the Winter Games may
not be entirely satisfying, but I think they particularly
test an athlete's inner resources. Most winter-sports
contestants are alone as well as cold; their main competition
comes not from other humans but themselves. The winners --
Tomba, Bonnie Blair, the ski-jumper Toni Nieminen, the
cross-country skier Lyubov Yegorovaare those who can put
aside concerns for safety or "face" and let their talents
rip.
   Canadian skier Kerrin Lee-Gartner had undergone five knee
operations in pursuit of her sport. Yet she said that when
she stood at the start of the women's downhill, "I told
myself it would be all or nothing -- that I didn't come here
to `ski well' or finish fifth or 10th."
   She won, by .06 seconds. Probably less than the speed of a
negative thought.