First Capital, Units
   File a Joint Plan
   To Reorganize
   ----
   By Earl C. Gottschalk Jr.
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The reorganization plan deals with companies at the
holding company level. They are First Capital Life Insurance
Group Inc., a holding company for San Diego-based First
Capital Life Insurance Co., and Fidelity Bankers Insurance
Group, a holding company whose principal asset is stock in
Virginia-based Fidelity Bankers Life Insurance Co.
   Last week, Shearson Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., bowing
to pressure from angry customers, agreed to inject $50
million into ailing First Capital Life Insurance Co. and to
guarantee the full value of policyholders' accounts. The
accord will help protect all policyholders, including 150,000
Shearson customers, against losses on annuities they bought
from the insurance company. Shearson is a unit of New
York-based American Express Co.
   According to Charles Perkins, a spokesman for First
Capital Holdings, this plan of reorganization doesn't affect
First Capital Life policyholders' accounts and the Shearson
Lehman Brothers guarantee. Mr. Perkins said the plan does,
however, reduce Shearson's share of First Capital Life's
future profit to 60% from 80%. Mr. Perkins said Shearson was
involved in the negotiations for the plan of reorganization.
   First Capital Life Insurance Group would continue to hold
a 100% equity interest in the rehabilitated First Capital
Life, subject to an option held by Shearson Lehman to acquire
the assets and liabilities of First Capital Life at a price
equal to 40% of their fair market value. California Insurance
Commissioner John Garamendi, who played a key role in getting
Shearson to make the investment in First Capital Life, said
he had no comment on the reorganization plan.
   Fidelity Bankers Life Insurance Co. is being operated
under the conservatorship of the Virginia Insurance
Commissioner. The commissioner is currently evaluating
various proposals for the rehabilitation of the insurance
company. A spokesman for the Virginia insurance commissioner
said he had no comment on the reorganization plan.
   General unsecured creditors of First Capital Holdings
Corp. and the two life insurance holding company subsidiaries
would receive cash equal to 50% of their claim, subject to
overall "caps," according to the plan.
   Holders of First Capital Holdings' 13% senior subordinated
debentures would receive no distribution or other
consideration under the proposed plan. First Capital Holdings
would be dissolved, and the holders of common stock of First
Capital Holdings would receive no distribution or other
consideration under the proposed plan.
   The proposed reorganization plan is subject to execution
of a comprehensive settlement among Shearson Lehman Brothers
Holdings, the debtor companies and certain officers,
directors and lenders of the debtor companies; final orders
approving the rehabilitation of First Capital Life and
Fidelity Bankers Life; settlement of policyholders' and other
class-action litigation; and bankruptcy court approval.
   First Capital Holdings Corp. filed for Chapter 11
bankruptcy protection last May 30. Earlier last May, First
Capital Life Insurance Co. and Fidelity Bankers Life
Insurance Co. were seized by insurance regulators in
California and Virginia.