Marketing  Media:
   Drop in Average Movie Budget Last Year
   Is Called Sign of New Cost-Consciousness
   ----
   By Thomas R. King
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
"There is no virtue so universally unpopular as
frugality," Mr. Valenti said. "But though it is a road less
traveled, it is the only way to go."
   Critics were quick to note that many of the films that
pulled box-office receipts out of their slump at
Christmas-time cost well above the industry average. "Hook,"
from Sony Corp.'s TriStar Pictures division, cost more than
$80 million. The budgets of many other holiday films,
including "The Last Boy Scout" from Time Warner Inc.'s Warner
Bros. unit and TriStar's "Bugsy," were also high.
   But some see a growing trend toward cost-consciousness.
Martin Grove, who compiles box-office data for Baseline Inc.,
noted yesterday that three of the top five films over the
past holiday weekend were relatively inexpensive ones.
"Wayne's World," from Paramount Communications Inc.'s
Paramount Pictures unit, cost about $15 million, "The Hand
That Rocks the Cradle," from Walt Disney Co.'s Hollywood
Pictures, cost about $11.7 million, and "Fried Green
Tomatoes," a sleeper hit from Universal Pictures, a
subsidiary of Matsushita Electric Industrial Co.'s MCA unit,
cost just over $10 million, Mr. Grove said.
   Mr. Valenti conceded that 1991 wasn't a banner year at the
box office. The MPAA's final tally indicates that, despite a
2.9% rise in average ticket prices to $4.89 from $4.75, total
box-office take dropped 4.4% to $4.8 billion from $5.02
billion a year earlier. While the recession was a factor, he
said, the mediocrity of movies released last fall was a more
important reason.
   "The movies that we had in the marketplace did not beckon
moviegoers to theaters," Mr. Valenti said. "We did not have
what I call `audience-alluring pictures'" in the mid-August
to mid-November period.
   Mr. Valenti said he was heartened to see that the average
marketing and advertising cost for a film rose less than 1%
last year, to $12.1 million from $11.9 million in 1990, when
such costs rose 29.4% over the previous year.
   The number of admissions to theaters fell even more
significantly than the box-office take, down 7% to 981.9
million from 1.06 billion the previous year, according to the
MPAA survey.
   Mr. Valenti said, however, that December's box-office
tally of $560.6 million, led by such hits as Paramount
Pictures' "The Addams Family" and Walt Disney's "Beauty and
the Beast," was the highest ever for that month. And this
year seems to be off to a good start. Admissions in the first
19 days of January were up 8.6% to 63.8 million from 58.5
million.
   Mr. Valenti said the MPAA's research indicates some
positive signs for movie-going. He said the incidence of
frequent movie-going, defined as seeing at least one movie a
month, among people aged 40 and over rose 57%, to 11% of all
those in that age group. The average number of films seen by
all moviegoers, however, dropped to 6.7 in 1991 from 7.1 in
1990.