LEISURE  ARTS -- The Gallery:
   A Tisket, a Tasket, an Art
   ----
   By Roxane Orgill
Basketry, the world's oldest craft, is a newcomer to that
area of craft that aspires to the art gallery and museum, not
the arts-and-crafts boutique. Contemporary basketry has not
forgotten its roots, however; it embraces the traditional as
well as the experimental, the humble object and the
self-conscious one. "Even the person who does the most
avant-garde nonbasket basket has respect for the traditional
basket. There's none of this throwing out the old for the
new," said basket maker Lissa Hunter.
   Like most newcomers, basketry has encountered some
resistance. Museum directors and curators tend to view
baskets as fragile and thus as poor investments, which may
not be entirely true, since a basket was found recently among
the Dead Sea Scrolls. Prices remain low: The instructors at
the Arrowmont conference, all tops in the field, exhibited
works mostly in the $1,000-$8,000 range. And then there's the
flighty image associated with mental asylums and the Easter
Bunny. The conferees moiled over what to call themselves:
sculptors? fiber artists? vessel makers?
   "I fit in where I can," said Jane Sauer, one of the
instructors. "I always say I'm a basket maker, but if someone
wants to call it sculpture I don't care."
   Most of the work by the 61 artists chosen for the show in
the Arrowmont Gallery was sculptural. The accompanying
instructors' exhibit, on the other hand, included baskets for
use, including Shaker baskets by John McGuire and sweet-grass
baskets by Mary A. Jackson, who continues a tradition begun
by slaves near Charleston, S.C. Together the two shows (123
works in all) seemed to be saying that anything goes.
   The most talked about was "Form-4," a seven-foot-tall
phallic structure of plaited brown flat reed, by Linda Kelly.
The most absurd was Elinor Splitter's "Teapot," teal blue
twined reed in the shape of a teapot, with a purple block of
wood for a spout.
   The hardest to love was Rise Peterson's "Listening to the
Past," a tiny rattan basket impaled on a rod and suspended in
a concrete box. Bonnie Zimmer's "Hostile Sanctuary" was
equally unfriendly but more intriguing: a thorny nest of
locust branches in which gray fleece lay like a polluted
cloud.
   Some were recognizable baskets, with a solid bottom and a
hole in the top: Dorothy Gill Barnes's chunky, cylindrical
"Pine Bark With Drawing"; Susan Bohm's sensuously swollen
"Melon" of beaten flax; Bonnie Gale's lovely, lopsided
"Bushel Basket" of brown willow.
   In others, the basket form was distorted ever so slightly.
Jiro Yonezawa's "Stratification," a seemingly solid, richly
textural basket of black bamboo, sweet grass and pine
needles, surprised the viewer who peered inside: The bottom
was a fragile lattice of grass. John McQueen tossed out the
basket form altogether with "Fuselage," tulip poplar bark
stitched into a lifesized tree-trunk shape, with holes where
branches should have been.
   In the end, the strongest, simplest forms stood out.
Lillian Elliott's "Shaped Bark" was like a big pocket, soft,
sprawling and empty, but looking full of something (thoughts,
perhaps?). Dianne Stanton's "Teton" of thin, twined elm bark
held a gray stone in a tight embrace.
   How did baskets come to stray so far?
   It all started with Ed Rossbach, a fiber artist and
influential teacher in Berkeley, Calif. He wrote two books:
"Baskets as Textile Art" (1973), which explored for the first
time the practical and aesthetic impulses that go into basket
making around the world, and "The New Basketry" (1976), which
focused on purely aesthetic baskets. Through the books and
his teaching, he served as the catalyst for a new kind of
basket making, already practiced by Mr. McQueen, Ferne Jacobs
and a few others but unknown to most craftspeople.
   "Ed Rossbach found baskets a perfectly acceptable vehicle
for making art," said Ms. Elliott, who traded tapestry for
basketry after studying with him. "He put aesthetic values
ahead of questions of permanence. He made a newspaper basket
because he liked the way it looked."
   The new basket makers used the techniques of their
forebears -- twining, coiling, plaiting, stitching and
knotting -- and followed the age-old practice of using the
materials at hand. Now, however, those materials included not
only willow reed, birch bark, palm leaves and white-oak
splints, but also telephone wire, vinyl tubing, nylon string
and plastic slats from lawn chairs, to name a few. The most
important difference, though, was that the new basket served
no practical function.
   Most basket makers see no reason why it should. "We don't
need baskets; we have grocery bags," said Mr. McQueen. "So
the basket became precious and decorative. Now it has gone
beyond precious. It's more open and cruddy."
   Just how open and cruddy? At Arrowmont, Mr. McQueen held
his workshops in the woods to "explore temporary structures
made from materials gathered directly from the forest floor,"
according to the conference booklet. One basket maker cut
five leaves in the shape of letters spelling "L-E-A-V-E" and
stuck them in the dirt.
   "I'm trying to open things up," Mr. McQueen explained.
   Ms. Barnes gathered the broken bottles and crushed cans
strewn about the woods and fastened them to a tree trunk with
the help of a material not found on the forest floor, shrink
wrap.
   The four o'clock sun was slanting through the trees,
illuminating the clear plastic and the green and brown glass,
and what do you know, the wrapped tree looked kind of
beautiful. Not quite like a basket, but not unlike one
either.
   ---
   Ms. Orgill is a free-lance writer based in Hoboken, N.J.