Duff  Phelps Sets
   Initial Offering
   Of 3 Million Shares
   ----
   By James P. Miller
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The company currently has 8.3 million shares outstanding,
and the SEC filing formally covered the sale of as many as
3.5 million shares. Freeman Spogli's holding would be further
diluted if the additional shares -- primarily a 450,000
over-allotment for the underwriters -- were to be sold.
   The document based its projections for proceeds on a
maximum offering price of $17 a share. None of the current
holders plan to sell stock in the offering, the company said.
   Duff  Phelps had been held by an employee stock ownership
plan until Freeman Spogli and certain Duff  Phelps managers
acquired the company in a leveraged buy-out in March 1989.
The planned offering will help pay down debt associated with
that move.
   The registration statement shows that Duff  Phelps has
enjoyed rapid growth in recent years, and that the company --
like many other financial-services concerns -- prospered in
last year's market upturn.
   In 1991, earnings were $6.7 million, compared with a loss
of $655,000 in the prior year; revenue swelled to $68.3
million from $50.2 million.
   Duff  Phelps is probably best-known for its credit-rating
operation, but the filing noted that its
investment-management segment "is now the company's primary
business." Investment-management revenue grew 26% to $29.9
million last year, to account for 44% of overall revenue. The
investment-management group, with some 200 institutional
clients, has about $13 billion in assets under management on
a discretionary basis, and about $25 billion under management
on an "advisory basis," the document said.
   While credit-rating revenue jumped 56% to $18.1 million,
those activities represented only 26% of the parent's
revenue. Duff  Phelps told the SEC it sees "significant
growth opportunities" in the credit rating marketplace, in
part because of increasing number of foreign issuers seeking
access to the U.S. financial market. And it said it also has
boosted its marketing efforts in the area of "structured
financings, including asset-backed and commercial real estate
financings."
   Duff  Phelps also operates smaller investment-research
and financial-consulting departments, both of which saw
revenue bounce back in 1991 from declines in the prior year.
   Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner  Smith and Prudential
Securities Inc. will lead the underwriters.