LEISURE  ARTS -- Business Bookshelf:
   Good Advice for Potential Retirees
   ----
   By Stanley W. Angrist
Most people are not aware that a 1987 law eliminated
mandatory retirement and gives substantial new bargaining
power to workers over the age of 40. Robert Coulson,
president of the American Arbitration Association, explains
what that law means to employees in his book "Empowered at
Forty: How to Negotiate the Best Time and Terms of Your
Retirement" (HarperBusiness, 215 pages, $12.95).
   Mr. Coulson illustrates various employee rights, such as
suing for age discrimination, by citing court cases. He takes
the reader through the process of negotiating benefits,
offering practical advice along the way. The only problem
with this book is that today many employees find that their
jobs have been "restructured away." They are presented with a
"fait accompli" and then offered severance pay and,
sometimes, a bonus for retiring early, leaving little to
negotiate.
   ---
   "The Only Retirement Guide You'll Ever Need" (Poseidon,
468 pages, $13) by Kathryn and Ross Petras is probably not
that. While it does touch on just about every subject any
retiree faces, sometimes that is all it does. For example,
there are just a few paragraphs on how to choose a discount
broker. There are as well chapters on choosing the perfect
retirement area and staying healthy. Had the book gone into
more depth on just the financial aspects of retirement or
some other subject of importance to retirees, it would have
been more useful. It is a good overview, but that's all.
   ---
   The most complete book that I found on the financial
aspects of retirement is one that was not written
specifically for retirees. Jane Bryant Quinn's "Making the
Most of Your Money" (Simon  Schuster, 934 pages, $27.50)
covers almost every aspect of money. Readers from 19 to 99
will be able to learn a lot about what they should and should
not be doing with their earnings.
   But some of the strongest chapters in the book are those
that cover retirementrelated subjects. Ms. Quinn addresses
directly the question of "very early retirement." For
example, she provides a couple of simple examples that should
convince most people they probably can't afford to retire at
50.
   She says that the very earliest employees should consider
quitting work is age 55. That's when most people can get
access to company pensions -- though they can expect their
pension to be half the size of what it would be at age 65.
   The one thing people know about their retirement assets --
IRAs, Keogh plans, 401(k)s or retirement annuities -- if they
know anything, is that they cannot have access to them until
age 59 1/2. Then they base their retirement planning on this
knowledge. Ms. Quinn points out six loopholes that permit the
use of those funds earlier. (OK, one of the loopholes
requires you to be dead and another totally disabled, but
that still leaves four that allow you to remain ambulatory.)
The most important exemption, though it doesn't apply to
IRAs, is available to early retirees who are at least age 55.
Another one might even be used to help pay for a child's
college education.
   Ms. Quinn provides worksheets for people who want to
estimate their retirement income and the additional savings
required to achieve any after-tax, inflation-adjusted level.
To complete these requires you to round up some things you
should know anyway -- your estimated Social Security
Retirement Benefit and your projected pension benefit, as
well as a list of your other investments. Completing these
worksheets will take about an hour, but the effort could
provide you with a great deal of comfort, or, alas, pain.
   Putting these worksheets into a computer would be a great
idea because of the ease with which they could be updated as
your financial condition changes.
   Ms. Quinn points out that some people might feel
intimidated by the thought of filling out these sheets, even
though they involve nothing more than simple arithmetic. She
suggests that there are other questions people facing
retirement should think about, such as investing retirement
savings, keeping or selling your present house and when to
begin Social Security or retirement pay.
   A good source of independent information for answering
these and other important questions, says Ms. Quinn, are
certified public accountants, who can systematically lay out
various options. But she warns that you should not seek
advice from someone who makes a living selling various types
of investments, because almost invariably their answers to
your questions and their plan for your financial success will
include the things they sell. Surprise, surprise]