Imperial Oil Set
   To Halve Oil, Gas
   Exploration Funds
   ----
   By Suzanne McGee
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Instead, Mr. Haynes said that Imperial, 70%-owned by Exxon
Corp., will be relying more on its downstream oil refining
and marketing operations to help generate profits in the
coming years.
   "Downstream {operations are} going to have to carry the
load," he said.
   Historically, the bulk of Imperial's earnings have come
from its oil and gas production activities in western Canada.
In 1990, the company reported net income of C$431 million
from its upstream activities, compared with a downstream loss
of C$42 million. Last year, profit from oil and gas
production slipped to C$277 million while, after a change in
accounting methods, the refining and marketing operations had
C$123 million net income.
   But Imperial's conventional oil and gas production is
expected to drop steadily during the next few years. Although
total production is expected to remain flat, analysts say a
drop of 5% to 7% in production of conventional, premium-grade
oil will be offset by slightly more production of
lowerpriced, low-margin heavy crude.
   The company doesn't have a good inventory of low-cost
supplies coming onstream soon, and Mr. Haynes acknowledges
that Imperial's costs to find and produce oil are relatively
high.
   Imperial Oil is counting on its recently announced
restructuring proposals to help boost profitability at its
downstream operations, Mr. Haynes said. As reported, the
company plans to sell or close about 1,000 retail outlets and
eliminate 1,700 jobs. It will decide early next year whether
to close two of its five Canadian refineries.
   Company officials say they are "comfortable" with
analysts' estimates that Imperial will report net of C$1.80
to C$2 a share in 1992, compared with 84 Canadian cents a
share for 1991. Pretax cost savings of as much as C$334
million this year could boost the company's bottom line as
much as C$1 a share, they say.