REVIEW  OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   Choice for Workers
Codifying the Beck decision involves far more than saving
some union members money. Forcing people to contribute
portions of their earnings to political causes they oppose
violates their First Amendment rights. Or so thought Supreme
Court Justice William Brennan. In his Beck opinion, Justice
Brennan cited Thomas Jefferson's view that forcing people to
finance opinions they disagreed with was "sinful and
tyrannical."
   The stakes involved in Beck are huge. A special master in
the Beck case found that only 21% of the dues collected by
the Communications Workers of America went for
bargaining-related activities. This meant that Harry Beck,
the former Maryland union shop steward who spent 13 years
fighting his case in the courts, was entitled to get 79% of
his dues money back, plus interest. Other refunds could be
larger. A Michigan judge found a National Education
Association affiliate spent 90% of its dues money on
non-bargaining activities.
   Where does all the extra money go? Much of it is plowed
into political causes. In 1988, unions gave $35.5 million to
political candidates and about $200 million more in such
in-kind help as free printing and voter-registration drives.
Almost all of this money flowed to liberal Democrats, even
though some 40% of union members voted for George Bush in
1988.
   Informing workers of their Beck rights could have dramatic
results. Currently, some 2.5 million Americans working in
union shops have already chosen not to join their union and
instead pay only "agency" fees. If just half of them decided
not to pay that portion of their fees being used for
non-bargaining purposes, labor's political funds would fall
by hundreds of millions of dollars.
   That explains why unions have vigorously opposed letting
workers be informed of their Beck rights. Unions have also
blocked efforts to force changes in their accounting
procedures so workers can easily learn how much of their dues
money goes to politics. Grover Norquist, an activist who has
crusaded for implementation of Beck, says that up to now,
some Bush administration officials have been intimidated into
not enforcing the Supreme Court's ruling, which is now the
law of the land.
   All this has now changed. President Bush may start
implementing Beck by first requiring that all employees of
government contractors be informed of their legal rights. He
may also press the National Labor Relations Board into
expediting hearings into the 250 Beck-related cases pending
before it.
   Enforcing the Beck decision doesn't mean that unions will
no longer have an active voice in politics. It simply
requires them to better separate their political activities
from more traditional functions, something that is long
overdue. Forcing workers to spend part of their paychecks on
causes that violate their beliefs is a crude form of coercion
(practiced, we might add, at the corporate level by
heavy-handed executive collections for PACs). It is in the
long-term interests of both unions and workers that such
practices not remain a part of a legitimate union movement.