Politics  Policy:
   Latest Primaries Warn Incumbents That Voters
   Have Adopted an Old Slogan: `Time for a Change'
   ----
   By James M. Perry and David Rogers
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
What happened in the Democratic primary in Illinois
Tuesday -- the defeat of Sen. Alan Dixon and four incumbent
members of the House -- was a warning shot in the
inside-vs.-outside politics of this angry election year.
Coupled with Democratic presidential candidate Jerry Brown's
strong second-place finish in Michigan, the day was a signal
that officeholders may be in big trouble -- especially those
who work and bank here in the nation's capital.
   "The day was replete with warning signs for Washington,"
says David Axelrod, a Chicago Democratic consultant who has
straddled both sides of the incumbent-challenger divide.
"What was theory before is now a proven fact. People are
ready to vote for change."
   "I've been in this business for more than 20 years, and
I've never seen anything like this," says GOP consultant Greg
Stevens. "It's worse than Watergate," when voters angered by
the White House scandal turned out 74 Republican House
members.
   This time, though, the fury is bipartisan. "It's a general
anger directed at all of them," says John Sasso, a Democratic
consultant and former campaign strategist for Michael
Dukakis. "It's a feeling that they {members of Congress} are
more concerned about their own well-being and about getting
re-elected than they are about real problems in the country.
The scandal over bouncing checks in the House bank just
confirms everything {voters have} come to believe."
   The 1990 elections -- in which six governors were defeated
and 53 House members scored their all-time lowest winning
margins -- were a harbinger of the pressures now. What's
happening, says GOP consultant Douglas Bailey, "is that
voters have finally figured out what to do. It's not term
limits for members of Congress. That takes too long. There's
an easy way: Vote against them."
   At a time of sweeping political developments elsewhere in
the world, from Eastern Europe to South Africa, the anger
among Americans is a product both of concern about their own
economic security and an impatience with the status quo.
"Americans are aware of changes in the world," says Mr.
Eskew. "There is a sense the world is changing and we're
not."
   Mr. Bailey predicts that the postwar record for new
members being elected to Congress -- 118, in 1948 -- will be
broken in 1992. Mr. Bailey's number isn't that much higher
than the predictions of California Rep. Vic Fazio, head of
the House Democratic campaign committee, who says that with
retirements, redistricting and outright defeats, as many as
75 to 100 new members will be elected this year.
   Political analyst Charles Cook expects that more
incumbents will be defeated in their own primaries this year.
"We're going to see a lot of primary losses," he says.
   The incumbents in the least danger are those who have
preserved a local base and projected a strong image of
attacking real-life problems directly related to voters'
concerns. "The ones who haven't paid attention will get
garrotted," says Democratic Rep. Brian Donnelly of
Massachusetts. "Those who did will survive."
   Mr. Cook says some incumbents will choose a nastier
course. "They'll figure out who their opponent is likely to
be and just savage him," he predicts. "This is going to be
the ugliest election year we've seen."
   In Illinois, Mr. Dixon -- "Al the Pal," a genial moderate
who lacked a strong political message -- was involved in a
three-way race in which he was attacked as a Washington
insider. He particularly incurred the wrath of women who were
furious at his vote for Supreme Court Justice Clarence Thomas
last year and rallied to challenger Carol Moseley Braun, a
black Cook County official and former state legislator.
   At the same time, two veteran black lawmakers, Reps. Gus
Savage and Charles Hayes, fell to challengers. Though both
men had been weakened by scandal, Mr. Hayes's loss to a
younger candidate, Alderman and former state Black Panther
leader Bobby Rush, illustrated a generational shift now under
way.
   In two other cases where incumbents were pitted against
each other by redistricting, victory went to the candidate
who best positioned himself as the champion of local
interests. Rep. Glenn Poshard, running in a largely new
district in the southern part of the state, ousted his more
influential rival, Rep. Terry Bruce; in Chicago and its
suburbs, Rep. William Lipinski used the help of the local
machine to roll up huge margins in city wards in defeating
Rep. Marty Russo, a member of the Ways and Means Committee.
   "The words we're using over and over again this year are
`out of control,'" says Mr. Goodman. "These incumbents are
out of touch and out of control. And it's getting across.
Voters figure the worst thing that can happen if they throw
somebody out is that nothing changes." Challengers appear to
be sensing the possibilities: As of March 1,582 nonincumbents
had filed to run for seats in the House and Senate, compared
with 306 who had filed at the same point in 1990, according
to the Associated Press.
   Geoffrey Garin, a Democratic pollster, says all the old
rules are being broken this year. "The assumption used to be
that {voters} didn't get rid of incumbents without good
reason. That's turned on its head. Now the rule is: You don't
keep them without a good reason."
   The anti-elitist theme is also being played in the
presidential campaign. George Bush, the nation's No. 1
incumbent, managed to tag his challenger, Patrick Buchanan,
with the tag by running TV ads about Mr. Buchanan's
Mercedes-Benz automobile.
   Meanwhile, Arkansas Gov. Bill Clinton, the Democratic
presidential front-runner, talks about the importance of
change. "He puts that word in almost every sentence," says
Mr. Bailey. "It's what voters want to hear. This election is
uniquely about the future of this country, and that means it
is about change." What Democrats hope will happen this fall
is that their candidate, presumably Mr. Clinton, will manage
to run successfully as the anti-establishment outsider and
save the congressional careers of dozens of Democratic
insiders.
   Within the network of Washington political consultants,
the following story sums up their reading of voter attitudes
this year. In a recent focus group in South Carolina, the
consultant running the session asked the participants to
pretend that the president, the entire cabinet and all the
members of the Congress were seated in the next room,
watching through a oneway mirror.
   What, the consultant asked the voters, would you say to
them? One by one, they offered their suggestions. Then it was
the turn of a prim, well-dressed, older woman. She turned to
the mirror and made an obscene gesture.
   ---
                       Crooked Deal
                                                                                                       

   The percentage of Americans who think "quite a few of the
people running government are a little crooked" is higher in
the 1990s than it was right after Watergate
                                                                                                       

   October 1991                       63%
   November-December 1974             49%
                                                                                                       

   Source: Wall Street Journal/NBC News poll of registered
voters; University of Michigan Center for Political Studies
survey of adults