Some Wag Is Almost Sure to Ask
   Just What They've Been Smoking
   ----
   By Lourdes Lee Valeriano
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The agency's plan would be to give the rifle-like weapons
to agents who would shoot herbicide pellets at the plants
while leaning out of helicopters.
   Changing patterns of marijuana planting and environmental
concerns have made it necessary for the DEA to come up with a
more precise way of killing the plants than just spraying,
explains Lloyd Clifton, deputy chief of the marijuana desk.
It seems that crafty grass growers have abandoned large
fields and instead are planting very small plots -- even just
a plant or two -- in out-of-the-way areas.
   But the DEA is on to them. "If it's outside, we can find
it," says a confident Mr. Clifton. Destroying the plants,
however, calls for a surgical-strike approach that won't kill
neighboring flora.
   The DEA says it would take at least four herbicide
pellets, each about the size of a marble, to kill a plant.
And the agents would leave a calling card. Apart from
herbicide, the pellets contain red dye to mark the plants so
"the eradicator and violator will know the plant has been
affected," says Mr. Clifton.
   The agency has yet to decide to put the gun to use,
although it has been tested in Hawaii and Mississippi and
found to be accurate to 100 feet. The response has been "very
enthusiastic," says Bruce Bucklin, deputy chief of technical
operations.
   While the DEA has been working on a prototype for more
than a year, the news comes as a surprise to the
Paintball-game industry. "Never in my wildest dreams have I
thought of Paintball guns having to do with gardening," says
Rene Boucher, editor and owner of Paintball News, based in
Hillsboro, N.H. "To me, it sounds kind of silly. It seems
like there would be better ways of delivering herbicide."
   But Mr. Boucher is certain that the DEA won't lack for
agents with the requisite shooting skills. "If you can aim it
and shoot it, I'm sure you would certainly be qualified
enough to shoot at a plant."