What's News --
   World-Wide
The court agreed to decide whether those who buy property
with illegal drug proceeds may claim they were unaware of the
money's source and, therefore, may keep the property.
   ---
   BUSH VETOED a bill imposing conditions on U.S. trade with
China.
   In a message to Congress, Bush said he approved of the
aims of the bill, which would have linked favorable trade
status to Beijing's progress on human rights and curbs on the
export of missile technology. But he said placing conditions
on renewal of China's most-favored-nation status wouldn't
achieve those objectives. Instead, Bush said, the bill would
weaken Beijing's ties with the West and result in further
repression.
   Bush has won every veto-override battle with Congress and
seems assured of victory again. The Senate passed the bill by
a 59-39 margin, well short of the two-thirds needed to
override a veto.
   ---
   Ethnic Serbs opened fire with machine guns on about 1,000
demonstrators in Bosnia-Hercegovina's capital, Sarajevo, a
day after the republic voted to quit the Yugoslav federation.
One person reportedly was killed and two others were wounded.
The Serbs want to remain in Yugoslavia, and a Serbian leader
said independence would mean war.
   ---
   Democratic candidates will vie today in presidential
primaries or caucuses in seven states, with a total of 383
Democratic delegates at stake. Clinton predicted that he
would be the winner in Georgia. Tsongas was showing strength
in late polls ahead of the primaries in Maryland and
Colorado.
   ---
   Libya's Gadhafi declared he hasn't any authority to
extradite two men accused of bombing a Pan Am jet in 1988,
despite an offer by his foreign minister to turn the pair
over to a neutral nation. Gadhafi also said Libya would set
its oil wells ablaze and flood its coast if the U.S. invaded
in a bid to seize the suspects.
   ---
   Dozens of civilians died in the Azerbaijani town of Shusha
in the disputed region of Nagorno-Karabakh as a result of
intense Armenian artillery and rocket fire. At the U.N.,
Armenia appealed for help in resolving its conflict with
Azerbaijan.
   ---
   The U.N. admitted eight newly independent Soviet republics
and the tiny republic of San Marino as members, bringing the
world body's total membership to 175. The nine new members
represented the biggest single group to join since the U.N.
was formed in 1945 with 51 members.
   ---
   Yeltsin signed a decree that will allow ethnic Germans
living in Russia to settle in two regions along the Volga
River where their families had lived decades ago, according
to news reports. The move is part of gradual rehabilitation
of Germans who in 1941 were deported by Stalin to Siberia,
Central Asia and Kazakhstan.
   ---
   Syria accused Israel of trying to "kill the peace process"
as the latest round of Mideast talks neared a close in
Washington without a decision on where to meet next.
Delegations from the two nations clashed heatedly yesterday
over the causes of the Six Day War in 1967.
   ---
   Algerian security forces fired warning shots and tear gas
in the western city of Constantine to disperse Muslim
fundamentalist demonstrators. Algiers radio said no
casualties were reported in clashes between the troops and
protesters.
   ---
   Turkmenistan cut off gas supplies to Ukraine because of a
pricing dispute, threatening a shutdown of heavy industry in
the former Soviet republic, Ukrainian leader Fokin said.
Ukraine refused to pay a 50-fold price rise to Turkmenistan,
which supplies 60% of Ukraine's imported gas. Fokin called
the increase "economic blackmail."
   ---
   South Africa's de Klerk launched his referendum campaign
ahead of a whites-only vote on political reform. The
president told university students in Stellenbosch that he
was hoping for a landslide victory.
   ---
   Clan rivals in Somalia weighed a ceasefire plan intended
to halt fighting that erupted in November. A U.N. official is
expected to visit the capital, Mogadishu, today to discuss
the plan.
   ---
   Died: Earl A. Scheib, 85, gravel-voiced founder of a chain
of discount car-painting shops who was known for his TV ads,
Saturday, in Beverly Hills, Calif.