Enterprise -- Talking Strategy:
   For Many Small Firms, Going Abroad Is No Vacation
   ---
   Staffing Can Be the Toughest Hurdle
   When Opening a Foreign Office
   ----
   By Michael Selz
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Pasco Scientific is wrestling with a crucial and difficult
problem that many small businesses face these days: choosing
the right manager for an overseas venture. Should the company
transfer a headquarters manager or recruit someone overseas
to run the new operation? Moving an American executive to
Britain would cost plenty, but would give Pasco Scientific a
well-known quantity. A local foreign national would bring
extensive knowledge of the market, but scant understanding of
the company's products.
   More small companies than ever must weigh such trade-offs
as they expand internationally, especially to offset weak
domestic demand. Among 2,200 smaller businesses surveyed by
consultants BDO Seidman, 45% said they exported goods in
1991, up from 36% a year earlier. In record numbers, such
companies also are establishing operations overseas.
   "Small companies that once would not have dreamed of
operating on a global basis are moving very quickly to
establish foreign offices by hiring somebody locally or
sending over an expatriate," says Roger Herod, a vice
president of consultants Organization Resources Counselors in
Chicago.
   Small companies getting started overseas obviously lack
in-house international experience and are particularly
vulnerable to mistakes. Besides, some "are making decisions
hastily without doing their homework," Mr. Herod says.
   It's easy to underestimate, for instance, a foreigner's
reluctance to join a small and little-known U.S. firm. MDA
Scientific Inc., a Lincolnshire, Ill., maker of toxic-gas
monitors, has found that out since opening a sales office in
Tokyo last year.
   "We're finding it's very difficult to hire people there,"
says Mark Sztelle, an MDA vice president. "A lot of people
don't want to take the risk of starting with a small firm
that has no track record to speak of. If we were Coca-Cola or
some other brand name, it would be a lot easier."
   MDA continues to hunt for a Japanese sales executive. But
it has given up hopes of finding a local service technician,
and instead will transfer an MDA technician from the U.S.
   When a small firm does line up promising foreign
candidates for its international office, picking the right
one can require that the chief executive fly overseas.
   Ian Davison, founder, chairman and chief executive officer
of Octocom Systems Inc., a Chelmsford, Mass., producer of
communications networking equipment, felt that he had to
interview each foreign national who now runs Octocom's
offices in Britain, France and Australia. "It's not something
I believe can be delegated," Mr. Davison explains. At a small
company, "there's too much responsibility and money at
issue."
   Yet even with a chief executive personally involved, an
inexperienced small business still may choose the wrong
foreign candidate. "Small companies can't always identify the
right person, because they don't know the right questions to
ask," says Robert Wingerter, a partner in Ernst  Young's
Indianapolis office. For instance, does a candidate with
strong selling skills also have knowledge of the market and
the product to be sold?
   Smaller firms also may fail to grasp the legal
consequences of hiring a foreign national. Labor laws in many
European countries require employers to offer employment
contracts with generous termination benefits lasting many
months.
   "If we were a much larger company, we'd have the in-house
expertise to know more about potential problems before we got
too far down the road," says Paul Schmitz, personnel and
benefits manager of Findley Adhesives Inc., Wauwatosa, Wis.
He says the concern had to pay a Swedish employee for three
months after firing him. "Quite frequently, we encounter
things {overseas} we would have liked to know much sooner."
   Small concerns that dispatch Americans abroad to manage
foreign offices usually are freed from such restrictive labor
laws. They also know that there's "at least one person from
corporate headquarters there representing their interests,"
says Mr. Herod, the ORC consultant. "Companies are nervous
about trusting the fate of a significant investment to local
staff. They want at least one person there with whom they can
easily communicate."
   But such advantages come at a price. Even after accounting
for hefty pay raises to cover the higher living costs
overseas, "at least two-thirds of all companies spend more on
expatriates than they need to," Mr. Herod says. "That's
particularly true among small and midsized companies that
have {pay} arrangements on an ad hoc basis."
   Firms can fail to realize that foreign assignments hold
more appeal nowadays because the so-called "globalization"
push means such a stint "is no longer a one-way ticket to
oblivion," notes Mr. Herod. As a result, "there is less need
to provide as many financial incentives as in the past to
take these assignments." Numerous large corporations, for
example, have reduced or eliminated so-called foreign-service
premiums that used to compensate expatriates solely because
they lived abroad.
   Poor tax planning is another reason that small firms often
overpay their U.S. expatriates. Mr. Herod says a number of
small companies he advises don't realize that they can reduce
an expatriate's tax burden -- and thus, the compensation
level -- by renting an apartment for the employee rather than
giving a cash housing allowance. "The way you pay people, the
timing and the nature of the payments are all absolutely
crucial in terms of what foreign taxes you attract," he says.
   Smaller firms also run a greater risk of sending an
ill-suited executive abroad because they have comparatively
few internal candidates to consider for foreign transfers.
Personal problems cause up to one-quarter of all expatriates
to cut short their stints, says Noel Kreicker, president of
International Orientation Resources, a consulting firm in
Northbrook, Ill.
   She recalls an executive of one small U.S. electronics
company who transferred to Tokyo with his wife and a
daughter. Unable to adjust to the move, his family returned
home six months later. The executive followed them shortly
afterward, but his marriage ended in divorce.
   "His wife was very entrenched in a midwestern community,"
Ms. Kreicker says. "It was very hard for her to say goodbye
to her lifelong friends and start making those connections
all over again" in Japan.