LEISURE  ARTS -- Jazz:
   `Red' and His Riverboat Spirit
   ----
   By Nat Hentoff
Not even Louis Armstrong (but for whom some of these
players would have been in another line of work) was exempt
from these stern strictures. He had a "plantation image,"
said Gillespie. (Gillespie, some years later, said he had
misjudged Satchmo. That Armstrong grin represented the
musician's "absolute refusal to let anything, even anger
about racism, steal the joy from his life.")
   What many of the younger generations of players also
ignored was that the jazz elders had grown up as
entertainers, and were not at all ashamed of pleasing
audiences by reaching out to them. They had come up on the
riverboats and in dives where it was often necessary to do
something extramusical to capture the rowdy audience's
attention, and they had often played at dances where the
couples were very serious, but not necessarily about the
music.
   One of these "entertainers" was Henry "Red" Allen, who, in
the years after the modernists came to dominate the jazz
scene, received little recognition among modern jazz
audiences for his musical inventiveness. I heard him almost
every night for months at Boston's Savoy Cafe in the early
1950s and then later at the Metropole in New York, where he
stood over a long, busy bar, prefacing each number with the
thumping shout, "Whamp] Whamp]"
   Around that time, a vintage trumpet player, Louis Metcalf,
heard a young bopper say, as he listened to Red Allen, "Man,
why doesn't that cat give up?" Metcalf was hurt: "Seems as
though they want us to die out."
   But there were new players who heard something in Red
Allen that made them listen again. Gillespie recalls that
"Some of the older guys started playing our riffs, a few of
them, like Henry `Red' Allen. The others remained hostile to
it."
   But Allen also was, and had been for a long time, creating
new dimensions in rhythms and textures that influenced a
number of the younger players. Miles Davis paid attention to
him. The avantgarde trumpeter-leader Don Ellis called Allen
"the most creative player in New York."
   There were nights when he came close to fulfilling that
tribute. Allen could swing hard and deep, but sometimes with
asymmetrical rhythms and only an implicit pulse, so that the
time moved in unexpected ways. And he was a melodist,
improvising new variations and variations upon variations
illuminated by continually changing colors. Until it was time
for "Whamp] Whamp]" again.
   His credits were much more traditional than his playing.
Trained in a New Orleans brass band led by his father, he
worked with Fat Marable's Mississippi riverboat band, played
with King Oliver and then with a big band led by Armstrong.
Allen went on to become part of the big-league orchestras of
Luis Russell, Fletcher Henderson and the Mills Blue Rhythm
Band before leading combos of his own until he died of cancer
in 1967. He was 59.
   For all of his flamboyance as a combo leader (he worked
the crowd like a master of ceremonies at a steam fitters'
convention), Red was extremely shy off the stand. And very
proper. I can't recall his ever swearing, in or out of the
presence of ladies, and he was very sensitive to what people
were saying beneath the words they were using. He was a proud
man. Gentle as he was, he suffered no slights.
   One of the few critics to have recognized the scope and
depth of the music that followed "Whamp] Whamp]" is Martin
Williams. He wrote the notes for a serious -- and, yes,
entertaining -- reissue set, "Henry `Red' Allen/World on a
String/Legendary 1957 Sessions" (Bluebird CD).
   Among Red's colleagues were the magisterial Coleman
Hawkins on tenor saxophone; J.C. Higginbotham, who played
trombone the way Adam Clayton Powell talked; clarinetist
Buster Bailey, like Higginbotham a longtime Allen associate;
and a robust rhythm section particularly energized by drummer
Cozy Cole and pianist Marty Napoleon, a true jazz enthusiast
who hardly ever stopped smiling even when someone hit a
clinker.
   Mr. Williams begins his notes for this set by saying
flatly that "no one continued to explore and develop his
talents and remain open to new ideas more than trumpeter
Henry `Red' Allen. The performances distill Allen's heritage,
from New Orleans on." The songs range from "Love Is Just
Around the Corner," "Ride, Red Ride" and "Let Me Miss You,
Baby" to "Love Me or Leave Me," "I've Got the World on a
String" and "Sweet Lorraine."
   Along with Red's twilight lyricism, there are his
cracklingly dramatic uptempo parades, and his singing. On
ballads, Allen was intimate without being sentimental. And on
the blues, he sounded like he'd known all kinds of blues, but
had never let them get him down for long. "Whamp] Whamp]"
   ---
   Mr. Hentoff is a New York-based writer and jazz critic.