Commodities:
   Gold Futures Plummet Again in Major Sell-Off,
   Sparking Declines in Silver and Platinum Prices
   ----
   By Anita Raghavan
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Other precious metals also suffered from the sell-off in
gold. Silver futures for March delivery settled at $4.062 an
ounce, 3.7 cents lower while the actively traded May contract
finished at $4.087, down 3.8 cents. Platinum futures for
April delivery, meanwhile, settled at $360.50 an ounce, 50
cents lower.
   Gold was depressed by "technically based selling that
started out in Asia and Middle East, and then carried on to
New York," said Jeffrey M. Christian, managing director at
CPM Group, a New York precious metals consulting company.
   Some analysts said that producer selling was to blame for
yesterday's sharp decline in prices. But other traders, who
declined to be identified, attributed the drop in futures
prices to selling by a Middle Eastern investor who has been
quietly working to liquidate his gold holdings through
European brokers.
   William O'Neill, senior futures strategist at Merrill
Lynch  Co., said the performance of gold yesterday
highlights "the inherent weakness of the metals." Mr. O'Neill
noted that gold failed to rally even though there is
considerable uncertainty surrounding the referendum today in
South Africa.
   Instead, "what we have seen is a continual series of lower
lows and lower highs" in gold's performance recently, said
Mr. O'Neill. He added that the two factors preventing an
advance in gold are continued selling by producers and the
widespread belief that gold is an unattractive investment in
a period of low inflation. In the past, gold has attracted
investors as a hedge against inflation.
   David Lundgren, a senior technical analyst at Technical
Data, said that investors interested in profiting from the
recent moves in gold should let the dust settle.
   Even though the spurt of buying near the close suggests
that this may be a "sell-off low," Mr. Lundgren said "it
would be wise {for investors} to sit on the sidelines and get
more information based on the price action" in the next few
days.
   In other commodity markets yesterday:
                                                                                                       

   LIVESTOCK AND MEATS: Cattle futures prices rose as traders
anticipated widespread retailer beef purchases to meet
growing consumer demand. Beef demand usually rises in the
spring, largely because of the return of barbecue weather.
Traders are buying futures contracts in anticipation of this
increased demand, helping to build expectations of the demand
into futures prices early, analysts said. The price of the
cattle contract for April delivery rose 0.42 cent to 78.67
cents a pound.
                                                                                                       

   ENERGY: Petroleum prices were mostly flat. Crude oil was
lower in U.S. futures trading, although it held above the
psychological support level of $19 a barrel reached in last
week's rally. There was little news to affect oil markets
except for confirmation that the next round of talks between
Iraq and the United Nations on a possible emergency sale of
Iraqi oil is scheduled to be held in a few days in Vienna. On
the New York Mercantile Exchange, crude oil for April
delivery settled down three cents a barrel at $19.15, while
the May contract was seven cents lower at $19.28. April
contracts for gasoline and heating oil were up some, however,
and natural gas futures were slightly higher on prospects for
continued cold weather in the northern U.S.
                                                                                                       

   COFFEE: Futures prices fell. Coffee for March delivery
ended at 72.55 cents a pound, down 0.95 cent. The actively
traded May contract finished at 73.40 cents, down 0.50 cent.
The declines came despite a report that Central American
coffee producers were meeting with a U.S. trade official to
seek Washington's support for new international coffee
quotas. After seeming like an impossible goal, the idea of
setting up an international coffee quota system has received
some support in recent days. This development has helped fuel
a run-up in coffee futures. Dario Sarmiento, director at
Sarmiento Group, a coffee consulting concern, said futures
prices were depressed yesterday by profit-taking. Also
weighing on the market is uncertainty about Brazil's position
on quotas. Brazil has indicated that it will release a
statement by tomorrow clarifying its stance, Mr. Sarmiento
said.