Cascade Says Stock
   Was Issued Without
   Approval of Board
   ----
   By Martha Brannigan
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Cascade also acknowledged in the letter, dated December
1991, that Mr. Incendy inflated the number of retail outlets
and cosmetics counters operated by the company in its Fran's
Fashions, J.B. Boutiques and Jean Cosmetics divisions. He
also exaggerated the income generated by the company's
cosmetics operations, the company said.
   In a late September filing with the SEC, the company had
said it had 126 women's apparel stores, but in its recent
shareholder letter, the company said the actual number is
about 70.
   Mr. Incendy, 57 years old, vanished in November amid a
rising chorus of questions about the veracity of the
company's financial statements. He is under investigation by
the Securities and Exchange Commission and the Federal Bureau
of Investigation.
   Cascade, which filed for protection from creditors under
Chapter 11 of the federal Bankruptcy Code in December, said
it is in the process of reducing the number of its stores for
women's apparel to 30 or 35 from 70, which should enable it
to maintain positive cash flow.
   The Boca Raton, Fla., company said it doesn't expect to be
able to audit its financial statements for the past two years
because of the "numerous and material" failings of the
statements.
   While Mr. Karp is still trying to sort out the morass, he
said in the letter that the company's stock transfer agent
relied solely on Mr. Incendy, following his orders to issue
new shares of stock without confirming whether the
distributions were authorized by the company's board. The
transfer agent, Fidelity Transfer Co., in Salt Lake City,
Utah, said it had no immediate comment.
   In the letter, Cascade said a number of other people
besides Mr. Incendy participated in the illegal stock
transactions, but it didn't identify any of them. Those
transactions, according to Charles Cohen, a bankruptcy lawyer
for Cascade, include insider trading by Mr. Incendy and
others. The company is trying to obtain a settlement from a
former board member, Mr. Cohen said. He declined to identify
the former board member.