Marketing:
   After Some Key Sales Strategies Go Sour,
   Kraft General Foods Gets Back to Basics
   ----
   By Kathleen Deveny
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Executives at Philip Morris -- now the nation's largest
food company -- blame the lackluster results on the weak U.S.
economy and volatile commodity prices. But industry insiders
say the company moved too aggressively to fatten food margins
by jacking up prices. As the recession deepened, consumers
turned in droves to cheaper alternatives.
   The company concedes the average price of its Kraft
macaroni-and-cheese dinners, for example, has jumped 5%
annually; and retailers say the increases have actually been
much higher. In one New York grocery store the familiar
blue-and-white box fetches 89 cents -- more than double the
price of the private-label brand right beside it.
   "I think 50% of their problems were caused by aggressive
efforts to maximize profits," says John McMillin, an analyst
at Prudential Securities Inc. "They pushed too hard, and now
they're paying the price for it."
   These days, an air of urgency permeates the sprawling new
headquarters building of Kraft General Foods here. To defend
its trove of powerful brands, company officials are going
back to marketing basics. The company is quietly cutting
prices of several products, selectively boosting advertising
and spinning out new product variations. At the same time, it
is seeking to cut costs by closing plants, discontinuing
hundreds of slow-moving products and further consolidating
the Kraft and General Foods businesses.
   "It was a disappointing year for us," concedes Richard P.
Mayer, head of Kraft General Foods' North American division,
which accounts for about 70% of the company's $28 billion in
food sales. "Our emphasis for 1992 will be on growth." The
challenge: cutting costs fast enough to preserve profit
margins.
   Nowhere was Kraft General Foods' pricing strategy -- and
the dangers of that strategy -- more apparent than in the
company's flagship cheese business. Soon after Kraft was
acquired, Kraft General Foods began to steadily increase the
prices of such stalwart brands as Kraft Singles and Velveeta.
At first, the concept worked: The cheese business reported
record results in both 1989 and 1990.
   In late 1990, however, the market for some cheese
ingredients plunged, allowing private-label manufacturers to
lower their prices. The price gap between packages of Kraft
cheese slices and private-label versions, typically about 30
cents, more than doubled. The Philip Morris unit was slow to
make adjustments, and its share of the $5.2 billion retail
market slid three or four percentage points, to 42%. Last
year alone, that lost share cost the company $125 million in
profits.
   "They raised prices too much, and they didn't reduce them
as quickly as private labels," says Jules Rose, chairman of
New York-based Sloan's Supermarkets.
   To halt the slide, the company slashed prices of nearly
half its cheese line by 8% last fall, its second cut in seven
months. To lure back consumers, it is churning out new cheese
products, including a "light" Velveeta and fat-free Kraft
Singles. It also plans to boost consumer ad spending at its
Kraft USA unit by 12% in 1992.
   The company's marketers also are racing to revive the
company's troubled Oscar Mayer processed-meat business, which
has been hurt by consumers' increasing health preoccupations.
As pork prices dropped late last year, the company quickly
cut prices on bacon, hot dogs and bologna. It is
discontinuing nearly 300 slow-moving products and adding such
"healthful" fare as light bologna and turkey bacon. To get
the message to shoppers, the company will increase ad
spending for Oscar Mayer brands by 30% in 1992.
   To address slowing demand for its Louis Rich
processed-turkey products, the company also is shutting down
a two-year-old plant in Tulare, Calif., eliminating 1,440
jobs. Kraft General Foods also will mothball an uncompleted
turkey plant in Missouri and encourage Louis Rich workers to
retire early -- measures expected to save $60 million
annually.
   At the same time, the company continues to seek further
economies of scale by merging its two food businesses. Merely
consolidating purchases from supppliers will allow the
company to cut many of its supply costs by 15% or 20%,
executives estimate. And the company is now in the process of
concentrating its business with fewer suppliers, a move that
will increase its clout and could save as much as $150
million over the next five years.
   Kraft General Foods also is grappling with ways to
coordinate the marketing of its massive array of products on
a companywide scale -- without losing its focus on individual
brands. It has already consolidated media buying and some
promotions: Earlier this year, Light Singles from the Kraft
side and Grape-Nuts cereal from the General Foods side were
touted together in a mailing to aging baby boomers.
   The company is also developing a system to swap TV air
time among its myriad brands, letting one product make use of
another brand's leftover time. That avoids costly last-minute
purchases.
   There is considerable talk around Kraft General Foods
nowadays about fostering the exchange of marketing techniques
among business units. The General Foods division that sells
Kool-Aid, for example, has devised a complex computer model
that uses the latest sales data to help brand managers more
quickly evaluate pricing decisions, promotions and ad
spending. Now the "beverage model" is being used for other
food brands.
   In fact, the food giant is now counting on marketing
techniques honed at General Foods to revitalize its maturing
brands. It is a cultural shift some company insiders view as
ironic: Kraft managers, who were considered quicker and more
focused on cost-cutting, initially prevailed after the
merger. The company's current back-to-basics philosophy,
however, is pure General Foods -- not flashy, but effective.
   At the time of the Kraft acquisition, for example, General
Foods' Post cereals were a distant third in the market and
flagging fast. To stop that descent, the company focused on
old-fashioned consumer advertising, including a well-received
TV campaign that invited customers to try the Post brand for
a week. The unit also stepped up new products, rolling out
Honey Bunches of Oats in 1989. The brand has already grabbed
1% of the $7.5 billion category; as a result, Post cereals
gained share in 1991.
   The traditional approach has helped the company jump-start
brands that seemed destined to become relics. Its Stove Top
stuffing mix got a boost from a recent ad campaign that
provided simple advice: Use stuffing instead of potatoes.
Similarly, recent ads for Shake 'n Bake rejuvenated the faded
recipe enhancer by posing the question: "Why Fry?"
   "Both businesses have gone way up, simply because of good
advertising," says Robert Morrison, president of the
company's General Foods USA unit.
   Mr. Mayer, chairman of Kraft General Foods North America,
is confident the nononsense approach will also invigorate the
company's other weak brands. And though it is too soon to
tell if the company's efforts are working, he already
predicts the North American business will improve this year.
Kraft General Foods, the engine that was supposed to provide
Philip Morris's growth, now counts on the patience of its
parent while trying to set itself right. "The good news," Mr.
Mayer concludes, "is that we're big enough to correct our
problems."