Brierley Investments
   Operating Profit Fell
   During Fiscal 1st Half
   ----
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
Operating profit includes Brierley's share of earnings
from associate companies.
   Brierley said that while the profit was "well down" from
the year-earlier half, it "represents a substantial
improvement on the more comparable result of NZ$36 million"
in the second half of fiscal 1991. It said the latest profit
came after providing for "exceptional" losses at Ariadne
Australia Ltd. and Magnum Corp., two associate companies.
   "The quality of the result is significantly better in that
virtually all our subsidiary and associate companies, with
the exception of (Ariadne and Magnum), are performing much
more profitably, debt levels and interest costs have been
further reduced and the outlook for the group is materially
better than at this time last year," Brierley said.
   The company said it plans to pay a final dividend of five
cents a share to maintain the full-year dividend at nine
cents a share.
   "Our mood is a lot more confident and positive than at any
time over the last four years," Chairman Bruce Hancox and
Chief Executive Paul Collins said in the company's statement.
"While world-wide economic activity is still sluggish we have
cut our cloth to suit-debt down, interest rates and levels
slashed, trading profits improved and investment activity
tailored to suit the operating environment."
   Brierley said new investment activity "is being undertaken
on a more measured and focused basis by strengthening our
performance objectives alongside traditional value criteria."
   The company reported a "substantial uplift" in New Zealand
profits, with Air New Zealand reporting a significant profit
improvement. Brierley said U.S. subsidiaries returned to
profitability, while its United Kingdom investments are
performing well.
   Improvements in New Zealand operations came not so much
from increased sales but from a reduction in money-losing
operations, cost cutting, a more competitive exchange rate
and lower interest rates, Brierley said.