Suncor Offering's
   Size Sharply Cut
   By Underwriters
   ----
   By Suzanne McGee
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The initial offering of the integrated oil and gas concern
fell victim to investor apathy and a recent flood of new
issues, investment industry sources said.
   "There was just no compelling reason for us to buy the
stock," said Fred Pynn, a portfolio manager for Bissett 
Associates, an institutional investment concern based in
Calgary, Alberta. "There's nothing wrong with it at that
price, but there are other things to pursue."
   The Canadian market has been swamped with new equity
issues in the last six weeks. Occidental Petroleum Corp. sold
12 million shares of Canadian Occidental Petroleum Ltd. to
the public in late February, while last week the initial
public offering of shares of Consumers Gas Co. by British Gas
PLC was priced at C$17 a share. Both issues, like the Suncor
offering, were sold on an installment basis, with about half
of the purchase price due on the issue date and half due
within a year.
   Under the terms of the Suncor offering, investors pay
C$9.50 a share up front. The remaining C$9.50 a share is due
March 18, 1993.
   Following the issue, Sun will own 68% of Suncor, with the
Ontario government retaining 14%. The province had hoped to
dispose of its entire interest in Suncor, but succeeded in
selling only six million shares. Sun sold four million shares
through the offering.
   Robert Campbell, president and chief executive officer of
Sun, said that the market conditions for oil and gas equities
prevented the company from selling more Suncor shares. An
individual in the investment industry said the size of the
issue was cut after Sun decided it didn't want to sell more
than four million shares at the discounted price of C$19 a
share.
   Sun and the Ontario government agreed not to sell any more
Suncor shares into the market for at least a year without the
consent of the lead underwriter. Sun said it intends to cut
its stake in Suncor to 55%, while the Ontario government said
it still plans to sell the balance of its holdings "in a
prudent manner over time."
   Sun officials had hoped the timing of the offer would help
market one of Canada's largest equity issues in recent years.
In 1991, when demand for refined crude products such as
gasoline fell by 8% and Canada's three largest oil companies
reported heavy losses, Suncor turned a profit of C$77
million, or C$1.42 a share.
   But while the company has already streamlined its refining
and marketing operations, it faces a number of challenges.
Royalty expenses will double this year, analysts expect
earnings to fall, and Suncor is trying to find a partner to
invest as much as C$250 million to develop an alternate
source of bitumen for its synthetic crude upgrader in
Alberta. Despite a hefty dividend of C$1.04 a share, several
analysts recommended that investors steer clear of the Suncor
issue.