Technology & Health:
   Du Pont Venture With DNA Will Supply
   New Canola Oil to Anheuser-Busch Unit
   ----
   By Robin Goldwyn Blumenthal
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The agreement represents the first commercial use of the
new canola oil, called Clear Valley brand, developed by the
joint venture. So far, the oil has found a market mainly in
home use in cooking and as a salad oil. But until now, canola
oil hasn't been used widely in commercial cooking because
untreated canola oil develops unwanted odors and flavors, and
treated canola oil becomes higher in saturated fat.
   InterMountain said the seed it has developed for the new
oil overcomes those problems and can be used at high
temperatures while remaining low in saturated fat.
   According to InterMountain officials, canola oil, at 6%
saturated fat, is the lowest in saturated fat of any oil used
in the U.S., and thus is touted as the healthiest of cooking
oils. Foods high in saturated fat are tied to hardening of
the arteries. Canola oil is a form of rapeseed oil.
   The new product "is a breakthrough in terms of being able
to use a canola oil 100% in a product that gets high heat
applications . . . and a real breakthrough from the
standpoint of health and nutrition," said Richard Laster,
chairman and chief executive officer of DNA Plant Technology,
an agricultural biotechnology concern. Mr. Laster said food
processors may be using some canola oil in frying and baking,
but are not using it exclusively.
   The Cape Cod potato chip package includes a long message
from the company's president proclaiming the benefits of
using canola oil and offering to replace the product if
consumers aren't satisfied. The package also includes a bar
graph comparing the saturated-fat content of its canola oil
(6%) with sunflower oil (11%), corn oil (13%) and soybean oil
(15%). Eagle uses cottonseed oil for its Cape Cod chips
outside the Pacific Northwest.
   An official of Eagle Snacks, based in St. Louis, said it's
unclear how broadly the oil might be used in other products.
But he said given consumer interest in lower levels of
saturated fats, if the new oil performs well, "naturally we
would consider using it in additional products."
   Mr. Laster said he expects sales of the oil will be $5
million to $6 million this year. He noted that InterMountain
is in talks with other large food processors and said the
potential market in the processed-food industry is about 10
billion pounds of oil, or about $3 billion a year.
   In addition, the venture is considering selling the oil to
the consumer market for cooking and salad oil, which Mr.
Laster said represents a wholesale market of eight billion
pounds a year, or about $2 billion.
   "There is a real potential for this oil to move into the
consumer area," said Jeff Jury, director of marketing for
InterMountain Canola and a marketing manager at Du Pont. "We
are looking at the consumer market in terms of how best to
approach it, since we don't have access to it," Mr. Jury
said. Procter & Gamble Co. markets a canola cooking oil to
consumers.
   Mr. Jury said the venture is targeting the processed-food
and restaurant markets, which he said represent about 90% by
weight of all oil used.
   InterMountain also is developing and testing other
varieties of canola that it said are even lower in saturated
fat and higher in mono-unsaturated fatty acids, which
research suggests may improve cholesterol levels.
   The company develops and grows improved seed varieties,
contracts for the processing of the harvested seed and
markets the oil to food processors. In 1991, InterMountain
contracted for about 26,000 acres in the Pacific Northwest to
grow commercial quantities of canola varieties.