International:
   `White Veto' Issue Emerges as Obstacle
   To Talks on South African Constitution
   ----
   By Joe Davidson
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
This issue looms as a major stumbling block in the
negotiations between the government and anti-apartheid
organizations. The African National Congress, the country's
primary pro-democracy force, rejects what is called the
"white veto."
   The ANC and the government are leaders of the Convention
for a Democratic South Africa, or Codesa, a continuing,
multiparty negotiating process that will establish guidelines
for writing a new constitution. Drafting of the document
could begin later this year.
   Mr. de Klerk has said that all South African adults,
including blacks who currently are excluded by apartheid law
from the electorate, could vote on a new constitution. But
the votes would be counted separately by race. Rejection by
whites would mean the process would have to start over, in
the government's view.
   "I believe we will get the {white} majority and if we
don't we'll be in trouble," Foreign Minister Roelof "Pik"
Botha told reporters. White rejection of a new constitution
would mean "the majority of whites have a death wish and are
prepared to destroy themselves," he added.
   Given that whites now hold political power in South
Africa, a referendum with racially counted votes is necessary
"in terms of political realism," said Gerrit Viljoen,
minister of constitutional development. Mr. Viljoen believes
a "demonstration of public acceptance" would diffuse
opposition to the development of a nonracial South Africa
from right-wing supporters of apartheid.
   After a racially based referendum approved a new
constitution, it would still have to be adopted by
parliament, which now excludes the black majority. "I also
wish to emphasize," Mr. de Klerk said as he opened the
current session of parliament on Friday, "that only
parliament as constituted at present has the power to amend
the present constitution."