Business World:
   The Aspect of Local Content That Mightn't Be Loco-Motion
   ----
   By Tim W. Ferguson
It's a matter of concern not only at the highly visible
(and unionized) factories of final assembly, but also among
the mass of smaller companies -- the "job shops" -- that sell
to a major manufacturing concern. It's the talk of the
suddenly subdued Seattle area as Boeing steadily sends out to
Japan for more of its jet components. And it was, of course,
the crux of President Bush's ill-fated Japanese mission: to
keep Interstate 75 as the Auto Highway.
   Building the guts of tomorrow's conveyances is one way to
stake a claim on future wealth. Even in a world of incredible
telecommunications, people are going to want mobility and
"Beam me up, Scotty" will still be just science fiction.
   Transportation is only one set of industries, to be sure.
Others too will be regional causes, into the new century. But
now, in Southern California, where jobs are hard to come by
(want ads in the Los Angeles Times fell 42% in 1991), wheels
and wings are what most move people.
   Rail is especially big news in California because the
state is undertaking a huge campaign on top of that unleashed
by the new federal transit appropriation. Tracks are going
every which way, as penance for all those years of indulging
in the private automobile. Enter Sumitomo and its selection
to build the Green Line, which is to run 23 miles from near
the International Airport alongside Watts to the smoggy
suburb of Norwalk.
   It's a commuter stretch. About the only reason a visitor
would have any interest is that it is (or was) to be
automated. This technology is in its infancy. Driverless
trains seem to be working in Lille, France, and Vancouver,
B.C., but in the U.S. they are confined to tiny operations
such as those in Jacksonville, Fla., and Detroit (the
downtown People Mover). Cameras in the cars pipe signs of
trouble (like crime) back to a command post, where various
responses can be triggered.
   Transit visionaries say this technology is what all
grade-separated lines will someday be using, and skeptics of
public systems agree that the labor costs and work rules of
rail are the most intractable of any in government and thus
are to avoided at nearly any cost. Sumitomo was judged better
able to bring off the engineering by 1994 than an
American-based competitor, Morrison-Knudsen.
   That set off the local yahoos. An obscure Republican
congressman from the TVA porkland of Tennessee, John Duncan,
got into the act from his perch on the House Transportation
Committee. Beneath the superficial jingoism, however, was the
potential for train-making in the area, with its burgeoning
market and glut of unemployed talent in aerospace and
metalwork.
   A "global regionalist" like Joel Kotkin,
chronicler-promoter of L.A.'s formative
immigrant-techno-entrepreneurial economy, is open to that
prospect. Although a free trader, he suspects the Japanese
"keiretsu" structure of corporate interlocks and vertical
integration with suppliers poses a challenge in key sectors
that U.S. business practices may not be up to.
   Involving government in a counter-strategy is a delicate
task, as anyone who respects market efficiency recognizes.
And Los Angeles politicians, like those elsewhere, walk with
a heavy foot. As they shot down Sumitomo, and perhaps the
automated design as well, they took a step toward actually
building and owning a public production facility for rail
cars for the county's overall transit network. By now, the
undertaking is so ensnared in pork barreling and demagoguery
that Sumitomo might someday be glad to be rid of it.
   The same might be said of the makeshift outfit called
Taiwan Aerospace that last fall agreed to invest $2 billion
to revive McDonnell-Douglas's commercial aircraft division.
Unionists from Southern California assembly plants cried that
the deal meant shipping work to Asia, the job shops started
hollering and national politicians again joined in.
   What became apparent to some, however, was that Douglas
was getting a life preserver and its partner the likelihood
of a cold splash. Taipei, flush with the world's largest
foreign-exchange reserves and eager to lay groundwork for
further prosperity at home, is betting on the third horse in
a two-horse race-behind Boeing and Airbus Industrie in a
field with high costs and a currently shrinking market.
   Politics in Taiwan may end up squelching the deal, but in
the meantime, "dirigistes" in the Congress want to put the
taxpayers into this production, too. One sophisticated
approach includes loan guarantees by Washington and an equity
position by banks, the sort of arrangement that approximates
the way state capitalism works for U.S. trading
partners-cum-rivals. The Taiwan-Douglas deal as it now
stands, if it includes a consortium of East Asian nations
getting a beat on their common foe Japan, has geostrategic
appeal but few new U.S. jobs (although it could save some.)
   One is tempted to say: Forget all this subsidized
hardware, let the U.S. keep leading the world in designing
the brains of these durable goods. The silicon chip is faster
and more powerful than any moving object. But as one senior
consultant notes, the high-value engineering in today's
vehicles -- especially in aircraft and autos -- is in
"systems integration." Without final assembly, you're out of
that game.
   Even now that a capital crisis for Japanese banks
threatens to curtail Japan's economic might, the demonstrated
success abroad in some industries -- not all the prized ones,
by any means, but not just the dinosaurs, either -- is cause
for an open mind about policies to gain a foothold in
essential technologies and build on it. If "local content"
requirements are understood to entail alliances furthering
that objective, they at least merit a good look.
   It may turn out that simply relaxing state controls that
remain in the U.S., such as antitrust laws, restrictions on
equity holdings by banks and punitive taxes on capital, would
be sufficient to even the odds in some "targeted" fields. But
no one can afford to assume smugly that Adam Smith wrote the
book on trade for all cultures and all times.
   So much of U.S. manufacturing is now world-class that
reasons other than sloth and sloppiness must be sought for
competitive lapses. If globalism has naturally diminished the
market shares held by American-based companies, it has also
exposed the U.S. system to a world test, conducted under
foreign rules. The simple response is to shut the Sumitomos
out and bring the McDonnell-Douglases home, while keeping to
the American way of doing business. But insularity isn't
profitable any longer, not for regions, not for nations.