Tucson Electric Power's Creditors Fail
   In Bid to Force Utility Into Chapter 11
   ----
   By Frederick Rose
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The troubled electrical utility, which serves most of
southern Arizona, has tottered from one financial problem to
another since 1989, when it posted an $82.1 million loss and
slashed its dividend. Tucson Electric, among other things,
invested heavily through the 1980s in unneeded generating
capacity and ill-starred financial services ventures.
   Though the court dismissed creditors' calls to force the
utility into Chapter 11 proceedings, "it will be several
years before the company will be on a strong financial
footing," said Ira R. Adler, senior vice president and chief
financial officer, shortly after the bankruptcy court's
dismissal. He added that "it will be years before the company
is strong enough to pay dividends."
   Tucson Electric stock climbed 12.5 cents a share to close
at $4.50 Tuesday in composite trading on the New York Stock
Exchange.
   In July, six large creditors began the effort to force
Tucson Electric into Chapter 11 proceedings. In succeeding
months, the utility worked out arrangements with each of
them. The last to be reached was concluded with Century Power
Co., a unit of closely-held Catalyst Energy Co. of New York.
With the agreements, creditors dropped their demands for
bankruptcy proceedings.
   But the pacts submitted to the court are preliminary and
in outline form only. "We now face the task of documentation
of the terms and of soliciting shareholder approval," Mr.
Adler said. That process will take three to six months, he
said.
   If the proposed restructuring is accomplished, current
stock holdings will be sharply diluted. Plans call for about
60 million new common shares to be issued in addition to the
roughly 26 million currently outstanding. Creditors and
preferred stock holders thus will own about 70% of the
company's stock outstanding.
   The agreement with Century Power, whose generating assets
once were part of Tucson Electric but were spun off to
shareholders some years ago, calls in part for Tucson
Electric to lease directly and to operate a giant generating
unit that had been leased by Century, which then sold the
power to Tucson Electric. The agreement would terminate an
onerous contract that called for Tucson Electric to buy much
of the plant's power through 2014. It is hoped that such
arrangements will cut costs for Tucson Electric.
   Losses at the utility in the first nine months of 1991
totaled $483.9 million, or $18.82 a share, including about
$350 million in one-time charges. Revenue totaled $442.4
million.
   The Arizona Corporation Commission's order Tuesday made
permanent an Oct. 11 interim order permitting the utility to
boost rates 15% but also terminating temporary fuel
surcharges that had equaled about 8% of prior rates. The
resulting net 7% increase was considered vital to the
company. But in a clear signal for creditors to settle with
the utility, the Arizona regulators said the interim order
would expire Dec. 31 if the company weren't removed from
bankruptcy proceedings.
   The commission's order also barred Tucson Electric from
recovering $250 million of expenditures on two generating
facilities, which were deemed in excess of the utility's
needs. The disallowances, together with a provision for
possible default by Century Power on $100 million of bonds
guaranteed by Tucson Electric, were reflected in the one-time
charges against the utilities latest nine-month results.