LEISURE  ARTS -- Television:
   Indy Long Before the Lost Ark
   ----
   By Robert Goldberg
This is a series that offers itself up like a lavish
holiday treat -- the story of a spunky young lad who travels
to exotic locales, chasing adventure around the world.
Sagameister Lucas knows storytelling. So it's no surprise
that this latest "Indy" comes charging onto the screen with
all the trappings of a rip-roaring yarn. And the momentum
carries it a long way.
   This week's installment, "Young Indiana Jones and the
Curse of the Jackal," opens with two kids trying to play
hookey from a museum field trip. "This place is boring," says
one. "Man, we're out of here," says the other. But as they
make a dash for the door, they're tripped up by an ancient
mariner type, and once he latches on to them and starts
talking, they know they're in for a really long day.
   The old geezer is Indiana Jones, age 93 (George Hall), and
the story he tells -- it's the story of his life -- begins in
1908, with a nine-year-old boy in blazer and short pants,
growing up in Princeton, N.J. He has a propensity for phrases
like "Holy smokes]" and "Jeepers creepers," and a real flair
for sticking his nose into trouble. When his parents embark
on an around-the-world voyage that will take them from Paris
to Peking, he goes along. First stop (the one in this
episode) is Cairo.
   On the desert sands, young Henry (Corey Carrier) comes
face to face with camels, pyramids, mummies, and of course,
adventure. Invited to visit an archaeological dig, he enters
a tomb with a curse on it. Soon he is embroiled in the theft
of an ancient religious artifact, a sacred jackal with eyes
of fire.
   The story picks up eight years later, when Indiana, now a
teenager (Sean Patrick Flanery), travels south of the border
to Mexico. Gallantly riding to the aid of a woman, he finds
himself surrounded by banditos, and eventually caught up in
the Mexican revolution. Along the way, there's plenty of
opportunity for derring-do, as Indy mounts up with the
revolutionaries, and stumbles on the solution to his mystery.
   Now this "Young Indiana Jones" has many of the same charms
that made the movies so much fun -- the romance of far-off
destinations and audacious exploits. Grand, sweeping
panoramas are underscored with grand, sweeping music.
Turn-of-the-century costumes (bow ties, pith helmets and
fezzes) and location shooting from Nairobi to St. Petersburg
to Shanghai all add up to a sumptuous look that rivals that
of British period dramas like "Jewel in the Crown" or "A Room
with a View." In short, executive producer Lucas (with
producer Rick McCallum) has created one of the most -- if not
the most -- richly packaged American TV series I've ever
seen.
   But for all the production values, "Young Indy" runs into
problems when it comes to the writing. Each episode shows
Indy both as a youngster and as a teenager, and while this
split may be potentially interesting, if the first episode is
any indication, it's also disorienting. The plot moves along
nicely in Egypt but takes a strange left turn when it gets to
Mexico.
   A bizarre story twist has Indy, a redblooded young
American from the early 1900s, shooting it out with U.S.
soldiers and their allies because he is suddenly convinced
that American imperialistic, colonialistic forces are
oppressing Mexico. Future episodes will find him standing up
for the environment and endangered species. Laudable as these
sentiments may be, they come off like anachronistic spasms of
1990s political correctness.
   There's a fair share of such speechifying and moralizing
tacked on to these ripsnorting tales. George Lucas has picked
a wonderful 10 years to focus on -- 1908-1918 -- a time of
social, scientific and artistic ferment, when the modern era
was struggling to be born. Unfortunately, he has also decided
he wants to be "educational" in his chronicles. He just can't
resist slipping in a steady stream of lines like, "Wherever
you go, whatever country you visit, learn the language."
Study, study, learn, Mr. Lucas whispers constantly in our
ear.
   As a teacher, though, he leaves something to be desired.
His method: history's greatest hits. Every third character
that Indy meets is a "big name." If he runs into someone
cycling in the desert, it's Lawrence of Arabia. If he
encounters a Mexican, it's Pancho Villa. In later episodes,
he'll chance upon Picasso, Freud, Degas, Hemingway, Tolstoy,
Lenin, Albert Schweitzer and Norman Rockwell. It's the "Bill
and Ted's Excellent Adventure" school of history -- run into
a famous guy, bag him, throw him into your plot and move on.
   Yet if Mr. Lucas and his team have shortchanged "Young
Indiana Jones" in some ways, there can be no denying that
they have set a new standard for television production,
raising it to the caliber of theatrical film. Future
episodes, set in Prague, New Delhi and the Great Wall of
China will showcase such movie directors as Nicolas Roeg
("Don't Look Now"), Terry Jones ("Monty Python and the Holy
Grail") and Bille August ("Pelle the Conquerer").
   This is a series with tremendous potential, big-screen
entertainment for the small screen. Will it live up to its
potential? That's what you call a real cliffhanger.