Law -- Legal Beat:
   IRS, New York Law Firm Clash
   Over Audit of Pension Payments
   ----
   By Jonathan M. Moses and Arthur S. Hayes
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
The IRS is auditing individual defined benefit pension
plans that were widely used by professionals and large law
firms prior to 1987. The agency contends that some plan
beneficiaries improperly reduced their taxes by contributing
too much to their plans. They were able to do so because
their law firms underestimated the interest rates that the
contributions would earn and incorrectly predicted that
partners would retire before age 65.
   In the process of auditing 1986 contributions to pension
plans at White  Case, the IRS requested and received pension
records for 22 partners who had contributed over $100,000 to
their plans in 1986. But the law firm balked when the IRS
demanded pension records for 33 partners who had contributed
less than $100,000 to their plans in 1986. In court
documents, White  Case called the IRS's requests
"harassment."
   Last week, Judge Charles S. Haight Jr. ruled for the IRS,
and gave White  Case until Feb. 18 to turn over records for
one of the 33 partners, who was being used as a test case.
White  Case said it would appeal the order.
   While the White  Case dispute with the IRS has become
unusually heated, other large law firms and many other
professionals have been fighting similar audits, which began
about two years ago.
   The stakes are high. For example, White  Case partners
contributed $5.6 million to their pension plans in 1986.
Richard Alpern, a tax lawyer at Sullivan  Cromwell, said
that as much as two-thirds of that money might have to be
repaid to the government along with interest. Mr. Alpern is
not involved in the White  Case dispute, but his New York
law firm also faces an IRS audit.
   Last month, U.S. Tax Court Judge Charles E. Clapp II in
Washington heard the first trials of disputes over the
national pension plan audits. At issue were IRS audits of
pension plans for partners at the Houston law firm Vinson 
Elkins and the New York law firm Wachtell Lipton Rosen 
Katz.
   Thomas P. Marinis, a Vinson  Elkins lawyer who argued on
behalf of his firm, said most of the evidence consisted of
testimony by actuaries. "The judge called it `the battle of
the actuaries,'" Mr. Marinis said. A decision is expected
this summer.
   Judge Clapp is currently conducting trials in Phoenix
involving non-law firm pension plans.
   The IRS in 1990 predicted that the audit program would
yield $666 million during fiscal year 1991. So far more than
15,000 returns have been audited, according to Don Roberts,
an IRS spokesman. He said that last year the agency collected
only $15 million as a result of the program and that the
agency had reduced its estimates of the total amount it would
recoup to about $168 million because the audits have proven
to be more complicated than expected.
   ---
   SEARCH AND SEIZURE RULING may set the stage for Supreme
Court battle.
   A federal appeals court in Cincinnati ruled that once a
person consents to a search by law enforcement officials, the
issue of whether the person was stopped because of racial
bias is irrelevant. The decision by the 12-member U.S. Court
of Appeals overturned a ruling by a panel of three judges, an
unusual reversal.
   In the earlier opinion, the court ruled that three
plainclothes Memphis police officers violated the Fourth
Amendment prohibition against illegal searches and the
Fourteenth Amendment equal protection clause when it stopped
Eddie Louis Taylor outside the Memphis International Airport.
   Mr. Taylor's attorney, Robert M. Friedman, said he will
ask the U.S. Supreme Court to review the full-court decision.
Mr. Friedman said Mr. Taylor never consented to being stopped
and searched.
   Mr. Taylor was the only African-American to leave a plane
that had arrived from Miami. Mr. Taylor, who was sentenced to
63 months in prison for intent to sell cocaine, had argued
that the evidence in the case not be used because he was
illegally stopped and searched.
   The issue of whether drug enforcement officials stop
minorities, particularly African-Americans, solely because of
their race has been much debated in recent years. The U.S.
Circuit Court of Appeals in New York rejected the use of a
race-based drug courier profile 11 years ago. Last November,
a suit seeking class action status was filed by drug and
alcohol counselor J. LeWayne Kelly against the Austin Police
Department, which he alleged has a search policy that
discriminates against minorities.
   In the decision by the full appeals court early this week,
Judge Robert B. Krupansky wrote that since Mr. Taylor had
consented to be searched, the court didn't have to consider
"whether the officers' surveillance of Taylor was motivated
to any degree by his race" or whether the use of race as a
component in a drug courier profile would "violate an
individual's rights to due process and equal protection of
the laws."
   Judge Damon Keith, one of four dissenting judges, wrote
that "the disproportionate number of African-Americans who
are stopped indicates that a racial imbalance against
African-Americans does exist and is implicitly sanctioned by
the law enforcement agency."
   Sidney P. Alexander, an assistant U.S. attorney in
Memphis, declined to comment.
   ---
   BREATH TEST RESULTS thrown out in Massachusetts.
   Massachusetts's highest court threw out Breathalyzer
results in six drunken-driving cases because the state
doesn't have such a written policy. The decision could affect
every pending drunken-driving case in the state in which a
breath test was used.
   The state does informally test the machines every time
they are used, said Thomas C. Rapone, the state's public
safety secretary. In addition, the machines are tested once a
year by a state agency.
   However, the court agreed with defense lawyer Leonard H.
Cohen of Pittsfield, Mass., that a formal policy must exist.
Mr. Rapone said the agency is writing such a policy. "I don't
think it shakes the foundation of our drunken-driving cases,"
he said.
   (Commonwealth of Massachusetts vs. Kevin Barbeau and five
companion cases, Supreme Judicial Court of Massachusetts,
SJC-5697)
   ---
   NOTED: Chadbourne  Parke, a New York law firm, said it
has become outside counsel for the Republic of Belarus,
formerly part of the Soviet Union. The firm will draft
legislation and represent Belarus in international business
dealings, such as negotiations for a Western communications
link, said Eugene R. Sullivan, a partner in the 270-lawyer
firm. Chadbourne has a Moscow office, he said, but may also
set up an office in Minsk, the republic's capital.