More People Buying Annuities,
   Insurance to Hide Their Assets
   ----
   By Ellen E. Schultz
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Other individuals are using annuities to shelter assets
from creditors when they file for bankruptcy. Some wealthier
taxpayers are using annuities as part of a strategy to appear
poorer in order to qualify for Medicaid.
   Thousands of people are buying life insurance sold to them
as "tax-free" retirement plans.
   These creative uses of life insurance and annuities are
legal. But some insurance executives worry that the practices
may draw the ire of Washington lawmakers, who have long
sought to impose stricter guidelines on the sale of insurance
products. Most recently, the Bush administration sought to
take away the tax benefits from most annuities sold to
individuals because, it maintains, people buy annuities for
"tax avoidance."
   Just how much insurance products are being used for
nontraditional purposes isn't known. Gene Grabowski, of the
American Council of Life Insurers, an industry trade group,
says that "it's very rare" that people use annuities to hide
assets, and that most people don't use life insurance for tax
avoidance.
   He and others in the industry concede, however, that such
practices do occur.
   Insurance products sold as a college-savings vehicles are
a case in point. Most agents who sell insurance for college
savings emphasize the appeal of tax deferral, which allows
money to build up faster than if taxes had to be paid each
year.
   But industry specialists say some insurance sellers are
encouraging parents to put college tuition savings into life
insurance and annuities because most colleges don't consider
life insurance and annuity assets in their financial-aid
formulas. A family can therefore appear poorer, so their
child will qualify for more aid.
   Annuities also are used to shelter assets from creditors
in some states. "In Florida people buy tens of millions of
dollars in annuities to keep their money from creditors,"
says Scott Dunbar, vice president at M Financial Group, a
Portland, Ore., insurance-marketing concern. Insurance also
is an excluded asset in bankruptcies in most states.
   The fastest-growing use of annuities to shelter assets
seems to be in shielding assets to qualify for Medicaid.
People worried that nursing-home costs will consume their
savings are switching money into annuities as part of
strategies that make them appear sufficiently poor to qualify
for Medicaid.
   Stephen A. Moses, who studied the practice for the
Department of Health and Human Services, says that affluent
individuals faced with nursing-home costs can use annuities
to retain assets for their heirs, while shifting their
medical costs to the taxpayers. Mr. Moses is now a consultant
with LTC Inc., a Kirkland, Wash., firm that designs long-term
care policies.
   Many insurance executives contend that using life
insurance or annuities to hide assets is questionable.
"Hiding assets from colleges and creditors is not the purpose
of annuities," says Kevin Crowe, chairman of Essex Corp., a
firm that markets annuities through banks and thrifts.
   Another nontraditional use of insurance is as tax-free --
not simply tax-deferred -- savings plans. Life insurance is
popular as a savings vehicle because earnings grow
tax-deferred.
   But a growing number of policies are being marketed as
"tax-free," because policyholders can get their earnings out,
by borrowing the money in the contract. There is no tax on
such policy loans. The loans don't even have to be repaid,
though they do lower the death benefit if not paid back.
   One product underwritten by Provident Mutual Life
Insurance Co. in Philadelphia is called a "Private Pension
Plan" with "income tax-free retirement benefits" and
"tax-free policy loans to meet such needs as college
education funding."
   "It's a legal option right now -- we don't see it as a tax
shelter," says Jeffrey Jenei, advance sales officer for
Provident Mutual. "We look at it primarily as a way to save
for retirement."
   Some life insurance agents and financial planners
encourage small business owners to terminate company
retirement plans and roll their individual share of the
assets into an individual retirement account. The IRA assets
are used to purchase an annuity that makes a series of annual
distributions (which are taxed) to pay premiums on a
life-insurance policy. The policyholder later takes the money
out as a loan, thereby getting the earnings tax-free.
   People who are encouraged to buy insurance products for
non-traditional purposes should be aware of the downside.
   Many colleges, for example, are realizing the growing use
of annuities and insurance to hide parental assets and they
are requiring disclosure on their financial-aid forms.
Congress also could impose restrictions, especially as the
search for revenue heats up.