Ignore the Retiree Health Benefits Rule
   ----
   By Jeffrey Petertil
Last March, IBM announced a quarterly loss for the first
time ever, due to the new accounting rule, FAS 106. Although
the rule is not mandatory until 1993, IBM chose to adopt it
early, taking a $2.3 billion charge. A few months later,
General Electric took a $1.8 billion charge for early
adoption and in November Philip Morris announced a $1 billion
charge.
   While the FASB encourages early adoption, few companies
will immediately follow IBM and GE. This newspaper recently
reported a survey of major companies by A. Foster Higgins 
Co. that indicated that fewer than 6% were adopting the rule
in 1991 and that many of these companies were spreading the
charge over a period of as much as 20 years. Half the
companies have not decided when to adopt.
   My own informal survey of companies in the Dow Jones
Industrials has yet to find a company that feels it has made
a commitment of the extent the FASB rule implies, or that it
needs to. This a partial explanation not only for the
reluctance to adopt the rule but also for the lack of money
put aside for future payments. I would contend that most
companies need not fund the liability, at least not to the
level the FASB rule suggests. For one thing, there is a
question of whether there is a liability at all. Many
companies extend health benefits to retirees but change them
often. Recent court cases indicate that the employers' right
to change or terminate the benefit will be upheld.
   There is also the question of whether the retirees to whom
the benefits are extended really "own" anything. The employee
has probably seen his health-care benefit package change
dramatically in the past 10 years and often knows that the
retiree health package exists entirely at his company's will.
Retirees who went before may have received some or all of the
payoff, but what will be left for the current employee when
he is 80? What is the market value of an option on a chain
letter?
   The elusive nature of the benefit's value is never
addressed by the FASB. The accounting rule is based on
pension theory. Pensions, unlike retiree health insurance
plans, are required by law to be funded in advance -- and a
competitive market has developed to insure them. For a
settlement price, an insurer will guarantee an annuity of
future payments to a company's pensioners. The pension
accounting rule put out by the FASB several years ago closely
matches the market price mechanism. For retiree health
insurance, however, no settlement market has developed.
   The absence of insurers who will back the retiree health
liability has been attributed to the uncertainty and high
cost attached to health care. But it is more likely a lack of
employer demand. Why should an employer pay a lot to settle a
liability it can reduce at will?
   When there is little demand at a high price, the usual
assumption is that the market price is lower. The FASB
disregarded this. It is ironic that on the day in 1990 when
the FASB approved this rule, the Nobel Prize in Economics
went to financial economists who made commonplace an
asset-pricing model that the accounting rule ignored. Such a
model might halve the GM billions, with greater proportionate
reductions for other corporations.
   FAS 106 not only overstates the value of future retirees'
health benefits, but its complexity presents another hazard.
Unlike a market value, the value a company assigns to future
health benefits can be wrong, either by mistake or by design,
and nobody will much know. The FASB rule leaves loopholes
that let a company reduce or increase its cost almost as it
wishes. One reason there has been little outcry about this
rule, considering its estimated financial impact, is that
some consultants and managers know that by making minor
changes to the plans they can greatly reduce the FASB cost.
   The ability to manipulate financial expenses is not only
an indicator that the method is flawed; it is also bad
accounting and raises the specter of suspect financial
statements. The FASB rule may result in financial reports
that are wildly inconsistent from company to company and that
can be fiddled with to hide other sins. As such, the rule is
not a positive addition to corporate management or a useful
tool in understanding retiree health benefits.
   The business community's resistance to this rule has also
been mitigated for two other reasons. First, the whole
subject is enormously complex, with time frames of 50 years
or more, and the expertise needed to understand the situation
is not always present. Second, there is some sense that we
are getting our due.
   We live in a time of deferral to crisis and our anxieties
prepare us for the worst. Among the purported crises of our
time are the aging of America, the unending rise of
health-care costs, and the consequences of misguided
corporate paternalism. When these three crises come together
to affect one issue, as they do in retiree health benefits,
it is not surprising that the negative impact will be great.
Some people assume the financial impact must be enormous and
leave it to "experts" to quantify. Others fear the complexity
and deny the implications.
   Information about the future is useful only when it allows
us to make better decisions today. Unless a 50-year
commitment to retiree health benefits has been made, the best
thing a manager can do with the FASB rule is what the
financial analysts have done so far -- ignore it, and get on
with the duty of deciding just what the corporate commitment
to health care is.
   ---
   Mr. Petertil, a consulting actuary in Oak Park, Ill.,
advised the FASB Industry Task Force on FAS 106.