Centocor Stock
   Slides on News
   Of Drug Snag
   ---
   New `Issues' Raised by FDA
   Regarding Application;
   4th-Period Loss Shrank
   ----
   By Lourdes Lee Valeriano
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Centocor also said that it has filed a patent infringement
suit against Xoma Corp., the Berkeley, Calif., company that
has a competing drug, and Pfizer Corp., New York, which has
an agreement to market that treatment.
   A Xoma spokeswoman said the company will vigorously defend
itself against Centocor's charge of patent infringement. "We
have been aware of their patent since it was issued last
fall. We are proceeding with development of our product."
Pfizer officials couldn't be reached for comment.
   The moves came as Centocor reported another quarterly
loss, although narrower than the year earlier's. Centocor had
a loss of $44.2 million, or $1.19 a share, in the fourth
quarter, compared with a loss of $132.3 million, or $4.74 a
share, in the 1990 quarter.
   In over-the-counter trading yesterday, Centocor's stock
plunged $8.125 to close at $33.125 on volume of 8.9 million
shares. The stock traded as low as $31.75 during the day.
Only two weeks ago, the stock was trading at around $50; the
slide in its price represents about a $675 million drop in
market value.
   A spokesman declined to elaborate on the company's
announcement regarding the new hitch in the FDA application
process, and FDA officials couldn't be reached for comment.
In its announcement, the company said it "believes these
issues should be resolved satisfactorily; however, if not,
this could have a material adverse effect on the application
and the company."
   Centoxin is Centocor's first therapeutic product and its
stock has risen steadily on news of the drug's progress. Its
shares earlier last year traded as high as $68 before a
2-for-1 split in April; since then they had again climbed to
reach a high of $53.50 in December.
   Teena Lerner, a biotechnology analyst with Shearson Lehman
Brothers Inc., attributes the decline in Centocor shares to
growing nervousness about Centoxin's license. "The clock was
ticking and where was the approval?" she said.
   Centocor was expected to win the race to market for a
treatment for the blood infection, also called septic shock
syndrome. Last September, an FDA panel recommended that
Centoxin be approved for marketing. At the same time, it put
off action on a competing drug from Xoma. Bolstering its
competitive position over Xoma, Centocor in October received
a U.S. patent that provides broad protection for Centoxin.
But later that month, a federal court jury upheld a patent
covering Xoma's treatment and ruled that Centocor was
infringing on that patent. Centocor's motion to set aside
that verdict was recently denied.
   Ms. Lerner, who expects licensing approval to be delayed
for several months, says the wait would narrow any lead time
Centocor has over its competitors. She added that the
company, which has been reporting quarterly losses, is making
a huge bet on Centoxin. "They can't afford to sit pretty and
wait for the FDA to take their sweet time."
   Further complicating the competition between Centocor and
Xoma, Centocor is suing Xoma and Pfizer for allegedly
infringing the patent that Centocor acquired in October. The
Centocor spokesman said the patent "covers a whole class of
antibodies" that includes those used in Xoma's drug.
   Centocor has spent $450 million in research trials for its
drug and for manufacturing facilities.