Navy Forced to Cut
   Long-Term Plans
   To Buy Aircraft
   ----
   By Andy Pasztor
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The Hornet's fate is bound to revive congressional debate
over the need to retain 12 nuclear-powered aircraft carriers
in the active force, and the issue also is expected to fuel
criticism of the Navy's leadership and ability to manage
high-tech weapons programs. Just last year, senior admirals
were embarrassed and shaken by the collapse of the A-12
attack plane, the biggest and most important weapons program
ever canceled by the Pentagon. At the time, lawmakers warned
that the Navy couldn't afford to have similar cost and
manufacturing snafus with the F/A-18, the stop-gap
replacement for the A-12.
   Gerald Cann, the service's top acquisition official,
acknowledged in a recent interview that the price tag to
develop and test the longer range, more potent versions of
the Hornet has climbed to nearly $4.9 billion, up from the
$3.5 billion estimate Congress received last year. The
Pentagon has requested more than $1 billion for the fiscal
year starting Oct. 1.
   Low-rate production of the new F/A-18s isn't scheduled to
begin for nearly four years, according to Mr. Cann, who also
said the service probably will buy only 600 to 800 of the
jets instead of the roughly 1,000 envisioned a few months
ago. He indicated that the lower number reflects budget
realities as well as the longer-than-expected life of the
current crop of Hornets.
   St. Louis-based McDonnell Douglas insists that the
program, intended to increase the size of the Hornet, upgrade
its engines, build larger wings and increase its range by as
much as 40% for some missions, is on track and remains the
most cost-effective way to meet carrier-based aircraft
requirements. The Pentagon's top acquisition panel later this
month is expected to formally approve the project.
   But even staunch Navy supporters such as Sen. John McCain
(R., Ariz.) are urging the Navy to re-examine the Hornet
upgrade effort "to ensure that it will fully meet" the Navy's
long-term need for a more potent and flexible multirole
fighter. In a recent analysis of the Pentagon's budget
options, Sen. McCain also concluded that after the F/A-18,
new Navy and Air Force fighter programs should be merged to
save money.