Economy:
   Printing of Bush Budget Halted to Delete
   Backing of Tax on Some Health Benefits
   ----
   By David Wessel and John Harwood
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
The embarrassing last-minute change comes amid other
indications that Mr. Skinner is seeking to curb Mr. Darman's
control of domestic policy, including the chief of staff's
intention to name a chief domestic policy aide in the White
House. It also provided evidence that Mr. Bush's domestic
advisers are having difficulty balancing their policy aims
with election-year politics.
   The president's fiscal 1993 budget doesn't give details of
the White House health plan, but Mr. Darman surprised other
officials by describing it in his introduction to the budget.
Those details are now being deleted, including the tax
provision, to allow more "consultation" before final
decisions on this issue are made, an official said.
   "We're taking that reference out until we can resolve it,"
Mr. Skinner said last night in an interview. But the chief of
staff denied that he is "trying to cut Darman down." The flap
is likely to delay the announcement of Mr. Bush's health
plan, which had been slated for Feb. 6.
   Mr. Darman takes particular pride in his annual
introductions to the budget and avoids circulating them until
the last minute to avoid leaks. White House budget office
spokesmen said they were still hopeful that the 2,000-page
budget document would be released tomorrow, although they
weren't certain. The health-care snafu will also require
"some minor modifications" to the draft of the State of the
Union address being delivered tonight, a White House official
said.
   As previously reported, the health-care plan Mr. Darman
has been shaping, along with Health and Human Services
Secretary Louis Sullivan, would tax as income a portion of
the employer-provided health benefits of people who earn more
than $100,000 or $125,000. To encourage employees to seek
cost-effective health insurance plans, the tax would apply
only to the value of the benefits that exceeds a certain
threshold, perhaps as high as $4,500 a year. The proposal
wouldn't affect most Americans but is intended as a step
toward taxing all employer-provided health benefits.
   The plan also would give poor people tax credits or
vouchers to buy insurance and give middle-income people new
tax deductions to help defray insurance costs that their
employers don't cover.
   The brouhaha over the health plan began Thursday at a
meeting of House GOP leaders and Mr. Sullivan. The usually
softspoken Mr. Gradison, senior Republican on the Ways and
Means Committee's health subcommittee, lambasted Mr. Sullivan
for the administration's secrecy and political naivete. That
set off a series of meetings that culminated in the decision
to stop the presses. Mr. Gradison declined to comment on the
issue.
   Even some Bush advisers who support Mr. Darman's approach
to health care have been questioning the political wisdom of
advancing such a controversial proposal in an election year.
But administration officials said the change in the budget
document doesn't mean the White House is backing off the plan
Mr. Darman is pushing.
   Separately, the Justice Department said President Bush
will ask Congress to boost the Justice Department's spending
authority 9% to $11.3 billion in fiscal 1993, which begins
Oct. 1, with sizable increases slated to fight violent crime
and drug trafficking. Among its proposals, the administration
will seek to expand the department's "weed and seed" program,
which aims to combine law enforcement with social programs in
neighborhoods, to more than $500 million.
   ---
   Lucinda Harper contributed to this article.