Computers:
   Growth of Home-PC Market Is Impeded
   By Confusing Array of Products, Prices
   ----
   By Hal Lancaster
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Mr. Spletter was in abundant company. Computer experts say
that consumer indecision, combined with the gloomy economy,
has had an adverse impact on home-computer sales in recent
months. Link Resources Corp., an International Data Corp.
unit that tracks the home-computer market, estimates that 3.8
million computers were sold for home use last year, down from
four million a year ago. Link estimates that this year's
figure will also be four million
   Still, the damage wasn't nearly as bad as it could have
been; and in some ironic ways, the recession helped business.
Some computer sellers say that a surprising number of
recently laid-off white-collar workers have been buying
personal computers to help them upgrade their technical
skills or start their own businesses.
   The ongoing PC price-slashing wars have been bringing out
the bargain-conscious but have created problems for
International Business Machines Corp. and Tandy Corp. Both
introduced new simplified home computers last year designed
to sweep the technophobic novice into the PC revolution. But
as prices fell, those machines wound up costing as much or
more than the full-blown PCs designed for businesses. As a
result, home-computer buyers were trading up to machines with
more power and speed and with boatloads of built-in software.
   IBM and Tandy have made their home machines more powerful
in recognition of these market realities, and both have
proclaimed their home computers successes. Others aren't so
sure.
   Frank Gladfelter, the marketing manager for IBM's PS/1
home computer, says U.S. sales of the product rose 15% to 25%
in last year's third trimester compared with the year-earlier
period, despite gloomy forecasts from retailers last summer.
As the year wore on, he says, "they ordered a lot more than
they said they would." He wouldn't provide specifics.
   But the increased sales are a bit deceiving. The PS/1 line
was expanded from four offerings to seven last year and was
sold in more outlets than a year ago. Most market watchers
contend that IBM has been outflanked in the home market by
several clone makers, most notably Packard Bell Electronics
Inc., which has picked up an estimated 10% of the home market
in just two years, according to Andy Bose, a vice president
of Link Resources.
   Until October, for example, only PS/1s powered by Intel
Corp.'s 286 central processor were available, even though the
market had long since shifted to the more powerful 386 chip.
"IBM said, euphemistically, `You ninny who doesn't know how
to use a computer, here's a half a computer that's easy to
use,'" says Seymour Merrin, a computer consultant who tracks
the retail market. "People who were talked down to didn't
buy."
   Even now, the PS/1 386sx machine runs slower than most of
its competitors, says Casey Dworkin, general manager of
Personal Technology Research, a Waltham, Mass., retail
electronics-market researcher. IBM "is going to have to move
a little faster to keep pace with the retail market," Mr.
Dworkin says.
   That's also a problem for Tandy, which is still trying to
peddle its 1000RL home computers with an older processor and
no hard drive for data storage. The basic machine was marked
down at Christmas from $799 to $399. "All of the low-end
computers -- ours and everybody else's -- have suffered
because of the change of spending habits in the past year,"
says Ed Juge, director of market planning for Tandy's Radio
Shack division.
   Mr. Gladfelter concedes that what IBM calls the
"non-work-at-home market," which was expected to grow 10%
last year, has been flat, while the work-at-home market has
grown 15%. That prompted IBM's introduction of more powerful
PS/1s to woo the small business and extended-office buyer and
a shift in the company's advertising message to "convey the
idea that the PS/1 is a `serious machine,'" says Sheila
Shanahan, an IBM spokeswoman.
   Both IBM and Tandy insist that the easy-to-use market will
blossom once the economy recovers. "I don't think power makes
that much difference to the low-end buyer," says Tandy's Mr.
Juge.
   Mr. Gladfelter estimates that four out of 10 buyers of IBM
home computers are novices. IBM, he says, "wanted to get
something out there the novice could use." Critics of IBM
PCs, he says, are "a group of technical-oriented press people
that look for companies to get the fastest thing out there
quickest."
   Those critics say that both IBM and Tandy erred by
designing simplifed, underpowered machines aimed at people
who don't have a pressing need for a computer. The idea of
housewives buying computers en masse to store recipes and
keep grocery lists was "dopey," says Jim Poyner, a securities
analyst with Rauscher Pierce Refsnes in Dallas. "The real
home market is the extension of the office."
   An estimated 68% of the computers sold for home use last
year were for work at home. Such buyers aren't interested in
underpowered machines, says Mr. Bose of Link Resources. They
want to run sophisticated spreadsheets and graphics programs,
which require more powerful PCs with more memory-storage
space.
   However, these buyers don't necessarily want to load their
machines themselves, so many manufacturers are offering
elaborate packages of pre-loaded software. Among other
things, the Samsung Sensor bundles together the DOS 4.01
operating system with Windows software, Norton Utilities and
a home-finances program.
   Some manufacturers are even providing Prodigy, a data-base
service, or including compact disk-based memory systems and
the capability to upgrade to the multimedia systems now on
the horizon. "I think multimedia will take off first in the
home," says Will Matlack, director of marketing
communications for Samsung Information Systems of America, a
unit of Korea's Samsung Electronics Corp.
   "People want more," says Mr. Dworkin of Personal
Technology Research. "They don't want stripped-down
leftovers."
   That describes Mr. Spletter, whose computer search proved
so confusing. A fairly typical home-computer buyer, he wants
to do some office work at home. He also wants to educate and
entertain his kids, seven-year-old Zachary and three-year-old
Kati. His wife, Paula, can track inventories for her
home-based crafts business.
   Throughout the Christmas season, he pored over newspaper
ads. Sears had machines starting at $999. Lucky Computers
offered a 386-based machine with a 105-megabyte hard drive
for $1,199. But some machines didn't include monitors, and
each had different accessories. A customer who rents PCs
offered him a used 286-based machine for $750, and he spotted
a 386sx machine at CompUSA for just $300 more.
   Shortly before Christmas, Mr. Spletter took a friend's
advice and visited Adam Computers, a Dallas clone maker that
sells to the public through a showroom. He walked out having
ordered a 386-based machine that runs at 25 megahertz, with a
color monitor, a hard drive that can store 89 million
characters -- and a mouse, an instrument used to perform
certain computer functions. DOS 5.0 and Windows 3.0 were
included, and the entire system cost $1,480. "I don't know
what Windows will do for me, but I figured the mouse will
make it easier to use for my kids," he explains.
   Two other factors weighed even heavier: a reassuring
two-year warranty and Adam's decade-long track record. He
concludes: "The way the computer business goes these days,
with its ups and downs, these guys have weathered the storm."