Marketing  Media:
   Quaker Oats Weighs Linkup With Coke
   For Distribution of Gatorade Beverage
   ----
   By Michael J. McCarthy and Christina Duff
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
"Gatorade is really generic for the sports-drink
category," said Michael Bellas, president of Beverage
Marketing.
   In 1990, to compete with Gatorade, Coca-Cola launched
PowerAde as a fountain drink, primarily for convenience-store
sales. Coke, based in Atlanta, is believed to be developing a
packaged version of PowerAde, which would be sold in grocery
stores and other outlets.
   Quaker initiated the recent courtship. In recent months,
according to beverage industry executives, as Coke and
PepsiCo Inc. began to push deeper into the market, Quaker
quietly began exploring how to expand its brand without
bumping into them. Growth for the sports-drink market, while
far from anemic at about 15% last year, has nonetheless
slowed from the 20% to 30% rate of the early 1980s.
   Quaker's review, said industry executives, began to
conclude it would have to side with one of the cola giants,
and Coke, as the market leader, became the favored candidate.
Under a distribution agreement, Quaker could keep its brands,
which already sell well in grocery stores, while using Coke's
enormous bottling distribution system to gain access to
vending machines and fountain spigots in fast-food
restaurants.
   A Coca-Cola spokesman would only say that his company "is
continually having conversations with a lot of different
companies about ways to expand its business around the
world."
   For Quaker, based in Chicago, the upside would be mostly
abroad. A Coke agreement could vastly expand Gatorade's
international presence since Coke is sold in about 170
countries. Gatorade currently is available in only 14.
   For Coke, the domestic market is where Gatorade would help
most. Coke's own PowerAde will be costly to market nationally
-- especially against as firmly entrenched a competitor as
Gatorade. And as domestic soft drink sales have slowed, the
big cola companies have increasingly looked to other
beverages for sales growth. Coke, for example, recently said
it would begin selling a Nestea drink in the U.S. through a
joint venture with Nestle S.A.
   Any Coke-Gatorade partnership would also add to a list of
big joint ventures that are consolidating the beverage
business. In recent months, Pepsi signed venture agreements
with Thomas J. Lipton Co., a unit of Netherlands-based
Unilever, and with Ocean Spray Cranberries Inc., based in
Lakeville, Mass.
   Separately, Quaker yesterday reported that earnings for
its fiscal second quarter ended Dec. 31 rose sharply to $44.7
million, or 58 cents a share. In the year-earlier period,
Quaker posted net income of $3.1 million, or three cents a
share, after a loss of $30 million, or 40 cents a share, from
discontinued operations. Sales for the recent quarter rose
3.8% to $1.34 billion from $1.29 billion.