Winter Olympics 1992:
   Latvians: Downwardly Mobile and Good At It
   ----
   By Barry Newman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
A cold snap one Sunday afternoon has frosted the trees on
the hill at the edge of town where the run is. Concrete
pillars hold its sluiceway high and steep. And down it, quick
as ice cubes, flash frozen lugers from Sigulda's sports club.
   Much of Latvia's new national bobsled team, its great
Olympic hope, is somewhere in Western Europe this day. Erkis
Gurspons, the team's mechanic, is stuck in a booth at the
base of the run, wearing a turquoise track suit and lazily
noting local lugers' accomplishments as they light up on a
Hungarian timer.
   "A bobsled," he says, "is an extremely precise instrument.
Some of its parts are measured in microns. It must be
adjusted for the run, the weather, the athlete. It can break.
Normally, a team should have a mechanic along." If it can pay
the mechanic's bus fare, which the Latvian Olympic Committee
cannot.
   "Before, the state said `you need ten gold medals' and
gave millions of rubles," says Arnis Lagzdins, the Latvian
Olympic Committee's executive director. "We don't want money
from the state. Some manufacturers are thinking ahead. They
know they'll need signs on T-shirts when the market economy
starts."
   And so, the fortunes of Latvia's 22 Winter Olympians
depend partly on the fortunes of the Red Dawn (soon to change
its name) light bulb enterprise. With several other Latvian
companies, including one that exports galoshes to
Afghanistan, Red Dawn has agreed to turn over 5% of its
profits in return for the right to print the sales-boosting
Latvian Olympic logo on its boxes.
   Mr. Lagzdins is drinking coffee in his living room when
he's supposed be in Barcelona talking over Latvia's entries
in the Summer Olympics. Aeroflot, snubbing his rubles, hasn't
deigned to sell him a ticket to fly there. Sixty years ago,
he might have tried walking.
   Latvia's celebrated Olympian, Janis Dalins, won a silver
medal in the 50-kilometer walk at the Los Angeles Games in
1932. In Berlin four years later, Adalberts Bubenko walked to
a bronze. "In old Latvia," says Mr. Lagzdins, "walking was
the most popular sport."
   Latvia's Olympic Committee began shooting for IOC
recognition in November 1988, a month after its Popular Front
started seeking the same at the U.N. Mr. Lagzdins dug up a
document showing that Latvia had joined the Olympics movement
on May 3, 1926, at the Camera Municipal in Lisbon, and never
actually left it. And he got to work on the logo.
   The pace hit full stride in January 1991, when Moscow's
troops opened fire, first in Vilnius, then in Riga. Latvia's
best athletes, its bobsledders, quit the Soviet team in
protest, lost their grants, and went out to find jobs. With
the rest of the country's Olympic talent, they thought they
were all washed up. Then came August.
   Within days of the failed coup, the U.N. recognized
Latvia, and the IOC matched it a day later. For dozens of
athletes from a new country with just 2.6 million people,
freedom meant a shot at the Olympics after decades of
oppression in the Soviet jockocracy.
   Few of the Latvian team's lugers, skiers or biathletes
could have qualified to compete for the old Soviet Union. Its
bobsledders are different. Some Latvians had taken up
bobsledding in the 1980s, a time when the Soviet Union,
irritated at getting creamed by East Germany, was pouring
resources into the sport. At Calgary in 1988, Janis Kipurs
piloted a Soviet crew to a gold medal.
   After last year's political tremors, Latvia's nine
bobsledders are still going for gold. They're short of money,
short of time, and out of shape, but happy to get out from
under the regimen of the old regime.
   Andis Gruntmanis, a 25-year-old sled pusher who used to
train in the Soviet system, now has to schedule training
around his job at a friend's trading company. He's also
helped cast around for sponsors and glued together sled kits
put out by a local maker of fire extinguishers.
   "We weren't prepared," he says. "We didn't know this could
all happen so soon."