International:
   Black Sea Fleet Stranded in Tug-of-War
   ---
   Once-Proud Soviet Force
   Is Bracing for a Split
   On Nationalistic Lines
   ----
   By Adi Ignatius
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Seated beside him is his friend, Volodya, 35, a muscular
officer whose blond bangs fall just above his eyes. "I don't
even understand why we split up the Soviet Union," he says
with a sigh.
   The two men, both majors on the fleet's largest medical
ship, are violating orders by talking to a foreign
journalist, but they are doing it anyway because, like many
of the Black Sea Fleet's officers and seamen, they are
confused and disillusioned by what is happening. Neither
would disclose his full name.
   The Black Sea Fleet, which has flown the Russian and then
Soviet flag since the late 1700s, today is hostage to a
dispute between two nationalist leaders of the postSoviet
order, Russian President Boris Yeltsin and Ukrainian
President Leonid Kravchuk.
   Despite a pledge to preserve the Soviet Union's strategic
military assets under the new Commonwealth of Independent
States, both leaders have tried to claim the powerful
300-ship fleet as their own. After weeks of verbal sparring,
the two sides tentatively agreed to divvy up the fleet.
   But the chief of staff of Ukraine's new army, Maj. Gen.
Georgy Zhivitsa, cast doubt on last weekend's agreement,
telling the Reuters news agency, "All ships on the territory
of Ukraine already belong to Ukraine. . . . I consider the
entire Black Sea Fleet part of the armed forces of Ukraine."
Russian officials wouldn't be drawn into an argument, telling
Reuters they would wait for the results of meetings, expected
to conclude this weekend, in which officials will settle
details of the Black Sea Fleet carve-up.
   Interviews with a dozen navy men paint a picture of a
once-proud and professional force of about 100,000 that is
about to be split along nationalistic lines by a political
struggle beyond their control. Most expect that they will
soon be forced to choose sides and join either the
Russian-dominated Commonwealth navy or the new Ukrainian
navy. Some already wonder if the two future Black Sea Fleet
factions will one day aim their guns at each other.
   "I can't imagine that Ukraine and Russia will go to war,"
says Volodya, "but you may see localized skirmishes in the
future, even right here in the Crimea."
   Mr. Kravchuk, wary that Ukraine would be at the mercy of a
larger and stronger Russia if it doesn't have its own
military forces, has been urging members of the fleet to take
an oath of allegiance to defend the blue and yellow flag of
the new Ukrainian nation. The fleet should be Ukrainian, he
argued, because it is based in Sevastopol, a Ukrainian port,
and because it controls waters that lap up against most of
Ukraine's borders. Russia wants sailors to take an oath to
defend the new Commonwealth.
   Sailors used to swear allegiance to the Soviet Union.
Today, things aren't so clear, including how the fleet will
be divided and when the new oaths must be taken.
   "I have absolutely no feeling toward Ukraine. None," says
Volodya, who grew up in the Russian city of Gorky but has
lived in Ukraine for several years. But he concedes that
deciding which fleet to serves may be based ultimately on
economic considerations. If the Ukraine and Russia are going
to tear apart the fleet, then many crew members feel they
should look out for their own interests.
   "I would prefer to stay in the Russian navy," Volodya
says, referring to the Commonwealth fleet as Russia's because
it is certain to dominate the new union. But what if a
Ukrainian navy were to offer higher pay? After a long pause,
he says, "that would be a difficult choice."
   Volodya gets 2,500 rubles a month, equal perhaps to a
lower middle-class U.S. salary. The navy provides a low-rent
apartment for him and his family, but it has only two rooms
and no hot water. His shipboard cabin has few amenities: a
bed, a desk, a lamp. Above his head hangs the days washing:
his blue and white striped navy shirt and underwear.
   Vladimir listens as his colleagues wrestle with how to
balance patriotism against economic needs, then suggests
another option: Why not simply ignore the politics of the
situation and serve either fleet under contract? "You do your
work and they pay you," he says. "It's a job."
   And what if he were on contract to serve in a future
Ukrainian navy that went to war against his native Russia?
"Under a contract, I would have to fulfill my duties," he
says solemnly.
   For ethnic Ukrainian servicemen, options seem clearer.
Vladimir Vorobets, a beefy 33-year-old with the rank of major
who works as a doctor in the fleet's hospital, will gladly
take an oath to the Ukraine. He says most Ukrainian officers
feel the same. Russian press reports say a third of the
fleet's servicemen and a fifth of its officers are Ukrainian.
Most of the rest are ethnic Russian.
   "The political issues have already been decided," Dr.
Vorobets says. "The borders are drawn. Why should the
citizens of Ukraine serve any other nation?"
   "Anyway," he adds as he prepares to make the rounds of
ailing sailors in his ward, "the Commonwealth is going to
fall apart within a few years."
   The bulk of the Black Sea Fleet has sat in Sevastapol
since August, as politicians decide its fate. It isn't even
clear who is in charge: Mr. Yeltsin; Mr. Kravchuk; the leader
of the Commonwealth military, Marshal Yevgeny Shaposhnikov;
or the leader of the Russian navy, Admiral Vladimir
Chernavin.
   "We just sit and wait," says Volodya as he slowly strolls
the 500-foot deck of the Yenisey. Heavy snow falls around him
on the icy deck. Lined up alongside the vessel are a dozen
warships, their polished gray guns pointing toward the bay. A
giant aircraft carrier, the Moskva, sits anchored in the
middle of the harbor.
   Despite confusion in the ranks, on-board discipline is
said to remain adequate. "In terms of military preparedness,
people are doing their jobs better than ever," says Alexander
Volkov, 34, a former naval captain who was forced to leave
the fleet three years ago after criticizing its cozy
seniority system. "But internally, there is a lot of tension.
There is a sense of `Who knows what will happen tomorrow?'"
   At the officers club in Sevastapol, young men file into a
weeknight disco, a disk jockey alternates tapes of Russian
rock 'n' roll with Michael Jackson and Chris Isaak. Flashing
lights and a disco ball illuminate somber paintings depicting
the Black Sea Fleet's past glories.
   It is the fading of that glory that most irritates many of
them; a split fleet would be a weaker fleet. "To talk about
dividing the fleet just cuts into one's soul," says Andrei
Petrov, an officer trainee with an anchor tattooed on the
back of his hand.
   Ultimately, naval officers say, the fleet will be split,
with 70% going to the Russian-dominated Commonwealth and the
rest -- including 100 ships -- becoming the basis of a
Ukrainian navy. Nothing is official yet, but reports that
Ukraine is vying for such a big share of the fleet infuriate
Russian officers.
   "Ukraine can't possibly support such a big fleet," says
Vladimir. "A lot of us think Ukraine is trying to get the
fleet just to sell the metal for hard currency."
   For his part, Volodya is troubled more by the long-term
impact of Russia's struggle with Ukraine for control of the
fleet. "We've never had an ethnic war," he says. "But with
every new development it becomes ever more possible."
   (See related story: "Yeltsin Answers Criticism Of His
Reforms, Vowing To Review Some Policies" -- WSJ Jan. 17,
1992.)