Philippine Officials Clash Over Shifting
   Subic Naval Base Into the Private Sector
   ----
   By Lawrence MacDonald
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
And they note that though the success of Subic as a
free-trade zone is by no means guaranteed, many companies
both foreign and local will likely be eager to make use of
the base's extensive facilities. These assets include
housing, docks, warehouses, a golf course and swimming pools,
large tracts of tropical jungle and an airport capable of
handling jumbo jets -- all of this situated around one of the
world's finest natural harbors.
   But Messrs. Gordon and Melchor agree on little else. The
problem is one of turf: Lack of a clearly designated
government authority to coordinate the base's transition to
private-sector use has led to feuding between local officials
such as Mr. Gordon, who want Subic to operate autonomously,
and central government officials such as Mr. Melchor.
   Sometimes, open acrimony results. Mr. Gordon, who also is
mayor of nearby Olongapo City, was angered recently when he
ran into 40 officials from Manila visiting Subic to plan
commercialization of the base. "Whenever I go to another
city, even for a speaking engagement, the first thing I do is
pay a courtesy call on the mayor," Mr. Gordon told the
visitors. Manila, he scolded, too often disregards local
residents and their leaders.
   Mr. Melchor has little patience with the mayor's
complaints. "If Dick would just keep quiet," he says in a
subsequent interview. Investors will decide which facilities
interest them, "then they will go see Mayor Gordon."
   Some prospective investors worry that such bickering, as
well as bureaucratic resistance to the autonomy of the Subic
Bay area, could delay or even scuttle the government's
ambitious conversion plans. Unless alternative jobs are
provided soon, these business people say, the best-trained
base workers will go elsewhere. Mass unemployment among
remaining workers could leave Subic prey to the squatter
camps and looting that have crippled infrastructure at U.S.
bases already relinquished to the Philippine government.
   "Our government has good plans, and they seem to be pretty
serious," says Lourdes Sun Borromeo, an executive at Metal
Forming Corp., a Philippine company that sold prefabricated
metal buildings to the U.S. military at Subic Bay and other
bases. "I just hope they don't make it a political football."
   Even so, several foreign companies are keen to grab a
slice of Subic. Keppel Shipyard Ltd. of Singapore and
Hopewell Holdings Ltd. of Hong Kong, for example, are seeking
major roles in operating parts of the privatized base,
according to sources close to the two companies. Executives
of foreign oil companies say they are eager to lease Subic's
petroleum depot, which has capacity of 2.6 million barrels
and which could be used for mixing additives with gasoline
and other fuels. They also say the depot could help ease a
shortage of fuel-storage space in the Philippines.
   Some leading Philippine companies are equally
enthusiastic. "We can turn this temporary difficulty into a
great opportunity," says James Go, president of Robinson Land
Corp. and a member of the prominent Gokongwei family, whose
interests include real estate, retailing and maufacturing. He
says Subic has the potential to become a shipping and
manufacturing hub similar to the Penang-Butterworth complex
on the western coast of peninsular Malaysia.
   Even under the best political circumstances, transforming
Subic into a commercial operation would be a formidable
challenge. Unlike the U.S. Navy, private companies can't
afford to pay thousands of workers just in case they are
suddenly needed. And while Subic Bay workers are inexpensive
compared with their counterparts elsewhere in Asia, their
wage and benefit packages of about $50 a day are about 12
times the average pay of 100 pesos ($4) that Filipino
laborers earn off the base.
   One Japanese executive who recently toured Subic was
stunned to learn how much the base workers earned compared
with his own company's workers in the Philippines. "They are
well-trained and highly qualified," he says. "But will they
accept a lower rate of pay?"
   Maintenance could also prove burdensome. The U.S. Navy has
spent about $180 million a year to maintain the base. The
Navy's recent removal of two of Subic Bay's three drydocks
was criticized by a senior Philippine official as
"heartless," but industry observers say the Philippines is
better off not paying the millions of dollars a year needed
to maintain the giant barges unless they are used fully.
   For customers who need drydock services, Philippine
Shipyard  Engineering Corp., or Philseco, a government
shipyard scheduled for privatization early next year, is just
across Subic Bay. Keppel, meanwhile, has approached the U.S.
Navy directly about acquiring Subic Bay's remaining drydock,
industry sources say.
   More important, investors say, is a recently installed $14
million switching device that is the heart of Subic Bay's
cutting-edge telecommunications system. Unless the
Philippines or a private company arranges for a replacement
before the U.S. Navy removes the switching device in
November, the base will be left with a rudimentary system. An
adequate replacement would cost about $4 million, according
to a U.S. military official.
   Other business people complain that the narrow two-lane
road between Subic Bay and Manila limits the base's
potential. In dry weather, the 62-mile trip takes 3 1/2
hours. During the heavy rains from June to August, volcanic
sand sometimes make the road nearly impassable.
   Mr. Gordon says he is confident that such problems can be
solved. For example, he says, a new super-highway to be
constructed by private investors could halve the traveling
time to Manila, making Subic a viable alternative to the
capital's crowded port.
   For now, he sees potential for a quick conversion of
Subic's housing and recreational facilities into a convention
and tourism center. Among the first things he intends to
privatize through long-term leasing if the bill becomes law
are the 18-hole golf course, riding stables, a yacht club
that would provide access to scuba diving in the bay, and an
eight-lane bowling alley.
   The Subic Bay area's triple-canopy jungle, the last large
tract of virgin forest in central Luzon and the source of the
base's drinking water, will be maintained under a total
logging ban as a national forest, he says.
   But the mayor nonetheless sees commercial possibilities
there, too. For decades, U.S. pilots have learned jungle
survival techniques from the Aeta aborigines who live in the
jungle. Soon, he says, tourists will be able to do the same.
"You want to play Rambo?" he says. "Come over here. We'll
teach you."