When You Need
   Vampire-Bat Saliva,
   He's the Man to Call
   ---
   Terry Fredeking Will Find
   Giant Leeches, Too; It's
   All for Medical Research
   ----
   By Robert Tomsho
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Indeed, to clients ranging from U.S. Army medical
researchers to pharmaceutical giants like Merck  Co., the
45-year-old founder of Antibody Systems Inc. is a godsend,
the man they often call when they want to experiment with
substances that are exotic, distant or just plain dangerous.
"I know there are saner ways to make a living," says Mr.
Fredeking, "but who wants to when you can make it this way?
There are adventures to be adventured."
   Antibody Systems was incorporated only about a year ago,
but Mr. Fredeking and his intrepid crew have spent nearly two
decades tracking down oddball research specimens that have
proved pivotal to clients in developing various poison
antidotes, drugs, and blood tests for hepatitis, hemophilia
and other diseases.
   It's strange work: Once, they were held at gunpoint by
Mexican narcotics agents. Another time, botched directions
ended a soggy five-day hunt for 2,000 Mexican leeches with
only two puny specimens, which were promptly named "Hansel
and Gretel."
   "Terry is a can-do type of guy," says Dr. George Siber,
director of the Massachusetts Public Health Biologic
Laboratories, a Boston-based research facility. "He'll say,
`We can do it,' and, boom, he's off and it's done."
   That's not always true; he has his limits. Mr. Fredeking
turned down one client's request for a human brain for use in
hormone research, explaining that, given some of the corrupt
regimes he deals with, "it might be a little too fresh." But
for the most part, "so long as it's legal in this country and
the country we're working in, we'll go anywhere, any time,
any place," says Mr. Fredeking, whose employees travel with a
small arsenal of antidotes and take vaccines the way other
people gobble vitamins. "If you can afford it, we'll get it,"
he says. His projects cost clients between $25,000 and
$50,000 a year, and often last from two to three years.
   When Merck asked Antibody to collect a few hundred
poisonous black widow spiders to make an antidote for their
venom, the crew scoured highway culverts and state parks and
then spent many an edgy night crawling through a remote West
Texas canyon with nets, flashlights and tweezers. On another
search for blood tainted with the parasite that causes
Chagas' disease, they trekked into the Guatemalan highlands
and persuaded a few dozen nervous government soldiers to lay
down their machine guns while they took samples of their
blood. "I just didn't like them being armed when I stuck
them," Mr. Fredeking says.
   And then there were the rare giant Amazon leeches that
Merck and Dow Chemical wanted for developing a drug to
dissolve blood clots. A faded 70-year-old map from the
Smithsonian Institution pointed the way to a remote breeding
pool in French Guiana, but getting there involved wading
through chest-high swamps and rivers infested with giant
anacondas.
   "I'm deathly afraid of snakes," says Antibody executive
John Parker, who nonetheless jumped into the muck first to
persuade his frightened local guides to follow. He later
showed them how to delicately remove the leeches from their
own legs with a machete. (The trick is to "shave" off the
leech with the edge of the blade, and to do it quickly, after
the leech has attached to the skin with its suction apparatus
but before it pierces the skin with its stinger.)
   "Terry is one of the few people in the country willing to
do this kind of stuff," says Merck executive Bob Fitro, who
has purchased poisonous spiders, rare leeches and bat glands
from Mr. Fredeking. "Everybody's not that crazy."
   Even Mr. Fredeking isn't really sure why he's still
obsessed with the risky work he began years ago after
becoming fascinated with his obstetrician father's research
into blood disorders among pregnant women. Mr. Fredeking, who
didn't attend college, was a security policeman in the Air
Force and a factory worker at General Dynamics before going
into the specimen gathering business in the early 1970s. His
company now has six full-time employees, most hired for their
willingness to undertake such missions rather than scientific
training.
   With his closely held company pulling in revenues of just
over $2 million a year, Mr. Fredeking doesn't expect to get
rich. "If you work real hard and get a whole lot of money,
you're going to die anyway," he says with a shrug. "I've
never seen an armored car following a hearse."
   Remarkably, no one has ever been seriously injured on the
missions. On one early quest for plasma infected with
hepatitis B -- a virus often transmitted by sexual contact or
intravenous drug use -- Mr. Fredeking befriended heroin
addicts on the streets of nearby Fort Worth, recruited donors
from gay bathhouses in Florida and cajoled prostitutes on the
streets outside Fort Hood in Killeen, Texas. He chuckles as
he recalls his pitch: "Pardon me ma'am, I have the need for
your body but not for the normal need and maybe not even for
the normal price." Unfortunately, his now ex-wife didn't
think that line of work was funny, he says.
   Mr. Fredeking generally doesn't find his work disgusting,
but admits that a few assignments have turned his stomach.
Just before Christmas three years ago, one client asked for a
species of hookworm found only in puppies. Unfortunately, to
get the hookworms, the puppies had to be dead, so Mr.
Fredeking asked veterinarians and animal shelters for
specimens. He didn't collect them himself, though: Going into
bat caves and leech ponds is one thing, but Mr. Fredeking
couldn't force himself to go into the examining rooms to pick
over puppy corpses. "I couldn't stand it," he recalls. "That
was the most disgusting thing I ever accepted."
   As you might expect, Mr. Fredeking is known for his
offbeat sense of humor. Associates still talk about the
Buenos Aires dinner party in the late 1970s where some
Argentine generals admired Mr. Fredeking's Mickey Mouse tie.
To the generals' astonishment, he jumped up and offered to
show his Mickey Mouse underwear, too. An associate restrained
Mr. Fredeking by running around the table and whispering in
his ear that one of the officers supposedly had had a few of
his enemies put to death earlier in the day.
   `He's a good traveling companion if you can keep him under
control," says that associate, Robert Dean, a retired U.S.
diplomat who serves as Mr. Fredeking's Third World
troubleshooter. "I don't know why I go on trips with this
fellow, but it's never dull."
   Mr. Fredeking has tried to convince his daughter to get
into biotechnology research, but she isn't buying. "She said
she'd probably stay in sociology," says Mr. Fredeking, "maybe
try to figure out what makes people do what I do."