Corporate Focus:
   Guinness Seeks to Revisit Spirited Growth of Late 1980s
   ---
   But Management Says Higher Profit
   Must Be Squeezed From Unsteady Sales
   ----
   By E.S. Browning
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
But these days, Guinness has a different reputation to
worry about. Once primarily a beer company, Guinness has
developed United Distillers and the Scotch whisky brands that
came with it -- like Johnnie Walker, Dewar's and White Horse
-- into a huge money spinner. Their success helped Guinness's
annual profit grow as fast as 32.6% in 1989. Today, scotch
generates more than half of Guinness's profit, and the
question now is whether Guinness can maintain its powerful
profit growth.
   The short answer is that it probably won't match its
late-1980s growth rates any time soon. After the Gulf War cut
into duty-free sales and the recession turned Americans and
Britons away from expensive brands, Guinness yesterday posted
1991 pretax profit growth of 13%, to #956 million ($1.65
billion). Revenue grew 16% to #4.07 billion.
   The results were almost exactly what analysts expected,
and the market reacted by letting the share slide slightly
yesterday to 556 pence, from 570 pence Wednesday.
   For most companies, including many Guinness competitors,
that kind of growth would be just great, but Guinness
described it as "a difficult year." Moreover, with world
scotch demand sluggish, analysts project that Guinness will
have to be content with that same kind of growth rate this
year and next. Guinness doesn't quarrel with those
projections; Chairman Anthony Tennant noted that he sees
"little prospect of a speedy end to recession in several
major markets."
   The new man in the hot seat on that issue is Anthony
Greener, 51 years old, a marketing expert who made his
reputation by building Dunhill Holdings from a tobacco
concern into a luxury products group. Hired by Guinness in
1987 to reorganize and develop United Distillers, he was
named Guinness chief executive this past January. He is
scheduled to become chairman at the start of next January,
and his challenge will be to keep profits growing faster than
those of most competitors.
   Mr. Greener, a fitness buff who doesn't smoke, drinks
little and has prided himself on walking up the 12 flights to
his United Distillers office, says he thinks he can keep
profit growth strong, although perhaps not as strong as in
the late 1980s. The question is how.
   Competitors like Grand Metropolitan PLC and Allied-Lyons
PLC, seeking to reduce dependence on liquor, are
diversifying, notably into food. Mr. Greener says he won't
rule out one day building a third basic business at
Guinness-after liquor and beer-but unlike the competitors, he
says that won't happen any time soon.
   "I am absolutely convinced we can get a lot more {profit}
out of simply running today's business better," he says. "My
objective is to build a universally recognized marketing
business. Whether it is based on spirits and beer or whether
there is a third component to that, only time will tell. But
in the short and medium term we have a lot to do in what we
know about."
   That means accomplishing an unusual feat -- expanding
profits without selling much more scotch than he did in 1988.
Although demand is growing in Latin America, U.S. scotch
drinking has been on a downward slide for years, which holds
down the world-wide total. According to the wine  spirits
newsletter Impact International, Guinness actually sold less
scotch world-wide, in volume terms, last year than it did in
1988. Mr. Greener says he hopes he can increase his sales
volume, but he acknowledges that he will have to find most of
his profit growth elsewhere.
   That means continuing to cut costs and boost marketing
efficiency at United Distillers. It means building new
international partnerships, raising prices and, above all, it
means pursuing an objective liquor experts call "trading up":
If you can't make people drink more scotch, you try to make
them switch to ever more expensive brands. That's how
Guinness can boost its revenue without boosting the volume of
its scotch sales.
   Sylvain Massot, food and drink analyst at London's Morgan
Stanley International, says he thinks it also may mean a
major acquisition. Last year, Guinness spent #881 million
($1.52 billion) on 10 different acquisitions, gaining control
of Germany's leading premium brandy, Asbach, a U.S. liquor
group called Glenmore and Spain's largest beer brewer,
Cruzcampo. Liquor companies call such medium-sized purchases
"add-on" acquisitions -- ones that enhance a company's
portfolio but don't produce any major changes.
   Mr. Massot says Guinness's strong earnings make it capable
of something larger. "The company will be in a position over
the next few years to make a bigger acquisition -- just
because it is generating such good cash flow," he says.
   Mr. Greener won't rule that out. But, perhaps because of
the scandal surrounding the United Distillers affair (which
preceded his arrival), he does rule out any hostile action.
And he notes that Guinness lately has been concentrating on
regional beer acquisitions, in part because liquor companies
have tended to become overpriced. Following the Cruzcampo
purchase, for example, Guinness acquired control of
Carlsberg's Spanish brewer, boosting its own Spanish market
share to about 28% and taking on Carlsberg as a minority
partner. Beer profits actually grew faster than scotch
profits last yearpartly because scotch demand slumped while
beer volumes continued to grow.
   Would Guinness get interested in a concern like France's
family-controlled Pernod-Ricard, if it were available without
a hostile bid?
   "No doubt we and all the other spirits companies would be
running our slide rules over it," says Mr. Greener. "We
aren't ruling out a big acquisition, but it isn't necessary
for us."
   ---
                Guinness PLC by the Numbers
                                                                                                       

                     The Fundamentals
                                                                                                       

                                          1991     1990
                                                                                                       

   REVENUE (billions of pounds)           4.07     3.51
   EARNINGS PER SHARE (pence)            33.60    29.20
   NET DIVIDEND PER SHARE (pence)        10.80     9.37
                                                                                                       

   MAJOR PRODUCT LINES:
                                                                                                       

   Scotch whisky, other liquor and beer
                                                                                                       

   MAJOR COMPETITORS:
                                                                                                       

   Grand Metropolitan, Seagram, Allied-Lyons