REVIEW  OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   Sued If You Do...
This might sound like a perfectly sensible new policy, but
not to the law. Theodore Ellenwood, who had been the chief
engineer on the oil tanker Exxon Wilmington, had no trouble
finding a lawyer to sue Exxon when he was taken off the ship
because of his history of alcohol problems. Exxon had offered
Mr. Ellenwood a job at the same pay on land, explaining, "You
can't put people with alcohol problems in safety-sensitive
jobs."
   To no avail. A federal judge in Maine, where Mr. Ellenwood
lives, sent the case to a jury, which last month decided
Exxon must pay more than $750,000 in damages -- $680,000 in
lost pay to Mr. Ellenwood plus $50,000 for "negligent
infliction of emotional distress" plus $25,000 for his wife's
emotional distress.
   So Exxon is liable because it didn't remove an officer
with a drinking problem and also because it did. Only in
America.
   What passes for legal reasoning in this nation's courts
does not bode well for the cigarette industry. We have no
special brief for coffin nails, but the Supreme Court is
apparently divided on whether tobacco companies should also
be sued because they complied with the law. Federal law since
1965 has mandated Surgeon General's warnings on the risks
from smoking, requiring tobacco companies to print specified
warnings on every pack. Now plaintiff lawyers want to argue
in state courts that tobacco companies should have printed
some other warnings; the Justices have to decide whether the
companies will be liable for doing what federal law required
them to do.
   Not that federal law is any paragon of consistency. For
example, there's the Americans With Disabilities Act. As soon
as this law went into effect recently, a wheelchair-bound
Harvard-trained lawyer in Washington filed against the
Capital Hilton and Raleighs, Woodward  Lothrop, the movie
theater at Union Station. Marc Fiedler had access to each
place, but complained of inconvenience from using special
entryways and being denied movie seating "for optimal viewing
pleasure." He might just win since Congress wrote the ADA as
vaguely as it could, leaving it to juries to work out.
   Making buildings user friendly for the handicapped will
mean big investments in new technologies, which naturally
means litigation. It's no coincidence that the Association of
Trial Lawyers of America recently formed the Automatic Door
Litigation Group to spot contingency-fee opportunities
arising from these new federal requirements.
   The good news is that Dan Quayle is back on the war-path
against the organized bar. Tomorrow the Vice President will
outline to the American Tort Reform Association the federal
and state legislation he's proposing to limit punitive
damages and otherwise make our civil-justice system worthy of
the name.
   U.S. law can now be classified as dysfunctional. In too
many cases, people have little idea how to comply with the
law, and when they manage to comply with one law often find
that they've violated another. At least it's still legal to
tell lawyer jokes.