Ronald Brierley Returns to Takeovers
   But Is Employing Different Vehicle
   ----
   By S. Karene Witcher
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
"For me, it's a repeat performance, to some extent, of
Brierley Investments in the 1960s and 1970s," says the
soft-spoken entrepreneur who prefers to be called Sir Ron. At
54 years old, Sir Ron says that with GPG he's "recapturing
the most exciting time" of his corporate career.
   Is he aiming to recreate Brierley Investments, a company
that grew into a behemoth in New Zealand and today controls
billions of dollars in assets from Britain to the U.S. to
Australia?
   No way, he says. Big companies mean big headaches. They
also get too big for one person to control. With a small fry
like London-based GPG -- in which Brierley Investments holds
a 40% stake -- "we don't need an army of accountants and
executives," he says. "We aren't going to go out to conquer
the world, we aren't going to be bidding for General Motors.
I'm conscious of the limitations."
   In contrast to the days when Sir Ron masterminded
corporate takeovers by upping the ante in million-dollar
blocks, GPG won control of Mid-East Minerals in early
December by raising its per-share offer by two Australian
cents (1.5 U.S. cents) to 39 Australian cents.
   Associates say there is more to it than simply the thrill
of reliving the times when his stock-market forays unnerved
directors of companies as diverse as Cummins Engine Co. of
the U.S. and S.A. des Galeries Lafayette, a French retailer.
(Brierley Investments no longer has a holding in either
company.) Behind Sir Ron's zeal, they say, is an acrimonius
split with his ambitious proteges at Brierley Investments
over the way that company should be run. Sir Ron is out to
prove he "isn't yesterday's man" to himself and to the
proteges who now run Brierley Investments, says a person
close to the situation.
   Sir Ron says he built Brierley Investments by ferreting
out investments with "hidden value." It worked then, and it
will work again, he contends. To skeptical analysts and his
critics at Brierley Investments, he says, "Some people can
make things happen -- and others can't."
   Longtime observers of the saga of Sir Ron and Brierley
Investments question Sir Ron's ability to build another
Brierley Investments even if he wanted to. "I'm not at all
convinced Ron has the fire in his belly for that," says Terry
Povey, an analyst at ANZ McCaughan Securities Ltd. But Mr.
Povey adds: "He might have enough fire to aim for a small
vehicle that produces rather good returns."
   From the time Sir Ron founded Brierley Investments in
1961, he called the shots. But after 1984, insiders say, he
devoted more time to pursuits such as his passion for
cricket. The October 1987 global stock-market crash marked
the turning point.
   With half of its assets in the form of stakes in other
listed companies, highly leveraged Brierley Investments came
under pressure. It was Sir Ron's proteges Bruce Hancox, now
chairman of Brierley Investments, and Paul Collins, the
company's chief executive officer, who took charge of
handling nervous bankers, jettisoning assets to reduce debt
and restructuring Brierley Investments. Sir Ron argued
against dismembering the corporate empire he built and
extinguishing its entreprenurial spark.
   However, the new-look Brierley Investments vowed to
conform to the more conservative mood of the 1990s partly by
focusing on control of its associated companies rather than
by holding a grab bag of passive equity investments, such as
had characterized Sir Ron's reign.
   Then in 1990, Sir Ron relinquished his role as Brierley
Investments' chairman for the title of founder president. He
remains a director, and it still is unclear to many outsiders
how much sway he has over the company. But a person close to
the situation says Sir Ron was basically "sidelined."
   Last year, Sir Ron, who hasn't been a big shareholder
since Brierley Investments was listed more than 20 years ago,
quietly pared his stake to about 2% from nearly 4%. He sold
his shares to the Singapore government when it agreed to buy
an initial stake of 4.7% of Brierley Investments through its
investment arms Temasek Holdings (Private) Ltd. and
Government of Singapore Investment Corp. Sir Ron won't be
precise about the price he got, but says it was between 1 and
1.25 New Zealand dollars (between 54 and 67 U.S. cents) a
share; Brierley shares currently are trading at about NZ$1.
   A shy, often preoccupied bachelor who has never been
driven by a desire for personal wealth, Sir Ron is an enigma
even to his closest associates. Friends say he is a loner who
longs for a team atmosphere. They describe him as a
hard-working and brillant financial analyst with a poker face
who keeps his own counsel. A quiet man who resents authority,
he relishes a public brawl with corporate regulators and is
notorious for attracting and then refusing to pay parking
tickets.
   Of the turn of events at Brierley Investments, "he must
feel hurt," says a longtime colleague. "It's like all his
marbles were taken away from him. But yet he didn't want to
play that game of marbles. He's much happier playing with the
little game" of GPG.
   While Sir Ron is content to hold on to his remaining
Brierley Investments shares, he says he wouldn't care if that
company dropped his name from its title. "There's no
sentiment involved," Sir Ron says. "Life moves on."
   These developments have led to a curious and uneasy
alliance between Sir Ron and Brierley Investments. "There is
acrimony," but it isn't a standoff, according to an insider
who says that while Sir Ron may argue with his former
proteges during the day, he often will share a steak and
bottle of red wine with them for dinner.
   As for Brierley Investments' intentions toward GPG, Mr.
Collins won't rule out selling the 40% stake, which could
leave Sir Ron working for somebody else. However, Mr. Collins
says, "We're happy with the thing at the present time."