Unisys Shares
   Jump on Gain
   In 4th Period
   ----
   By Paul B. Carroll
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The profit, the company's first in eight quarters, came
largely because of cost-cutting efforts that saw Unisys
shrink from 75,000 people at the beginning of the year to
60,000 at the end of 1991. Those efforts allowed the computer
and defense-electronics concern to bounce back from a
year-earlier loss of $88.5 million, or 74 cents a share, even
though revenue dropped 16% to $2.46 billion from $2.93
billion.
   The quarter's results were just about what the company had
promised its banks it would deliver, when it renegotiated an
important lending agreement last summer. Unisys had told the
banks that it would earn $257 million in the second half,
before interest and income-tax payments; the figure turned
out to be $265 million. But so few securities analysts
believed the company could meet its commitment that many
carried earnings estimates of about 15 cents a share for the
fourth quarter, half the actual number. As a result, the
stock rose $1.25 to $7 in heavy trading of almost 14 million
shares on the New York Stock Exchange yesterday.
   After the earnings report, some analysts raised their
estimates for 1992 to 40 to 60 cents a share, from break-even
or a slight loss. The new estimates would mark a sharp
turnaround from the 1991 loss of $1.39 billion, or $9.37 a
share, which included a charge of $1.2 billion to cover a
reduction of 10,000 jobs. Revenue in 1991 declined 14% to
$8.7 billion from $10.11 billion in 1990, when the net loss
was $436.7 million, or $3.45 a share, including a $181
million charge to cover job cuts.
   Mr. Unruh and Unisys President Reto Braun said that
continued cost-cutting efforts accounted for much of their
optimism going into 1992. The company still has 3,000 jobs to
cut in the first half under a program announced last summer.
Four more plants are to be closed, reducing the number to 12.
But both said they are cautiously optimistic about the
revenue outlook, hoping they can at least minimize the
decline this year and possibly even produce an increase.
   "The economy still stinks," Mr. Unruh said. Having said in
November that he could count on one hand the number of
customers who had told him their business was growing, Mr.
Unruh said yesterday that "I haven't taken out my other
hand." He added that when he looks at his competitors'
generally weak results, "I don't see a lot of good news
there." So the competition for sales this year will be even
tougher, meaning "there aren't going to be any easy plums
falling off the tree into our laps." But Mr. Unruh also said
that U.S. orders in the fourth quarter were the strongest
they'd been in five years and said that, in general, "we
enter the year with a stronger base of business than we have
for a couple of years."
   Mr. Braun was especially optimistic about two new high-end
mainframes for which there appears to be pent-up demand. He
said Unisys also appears to be overcoming what he called
"tremendous problems" with systems based on the Unix
operating system. Making money on Unix is tricky to begin
with, because the fact that it is a standard in the industry
means it's hard for a manufacturer to differentiate its
hardware from a competitor's if they both run the same
software. But Mr. Braun said Unisys also paid too little
attention to the quality of its products and lost some "basic
disciplines" in running that part of its business.
   Mr. Unruh said Unisys should also continue to make
progress in improving its balance sheet, where the heavy debt
load incurred as part of an ill-fated attempt at major
expansion has been the biggest reason the company racked up
more than $2.5 billion of losses since the start of 1989. Mr.
Unruh said debt dropped by about $450 million during 1991, to
$3.28 billion, while cash on hand increased by more than $400
million, to about $800 million. Although he declined to say
how much he intended to reduce debt or increase cash this
year, he did say the company was on its way to lowering debt
to 25% of total capital from about 50% at the moment. Mr.
Unruh also said that while accounts receivables and
inventories are at historic lows, he should be able to
squeeze them enough to generate a further $200 million or so
of cash. He said Unisys will also continue selling idle real
estate, generating perhaps another $200 million this year. He
said he wasn't reconsidering a decision in November to cancel
a public offering of stock in the company's
defense-electronics business.
   If Unisys does sustain a turnaround, it will be one of the
few times in the long history of the computer industry that
that has occurred. Typically, computers are so central to a
customer's business and customers require such a long-term
relationship with their suppliers that customers quickly head
for the exits once a company gets into the well-publicized
trouble that Unisys has experienced over the past couple of
years.
   But Messrs. Unruh and Braun said they were confident that
the cutting they would do from here on could be accomplished
with scalpels, not hatchets. Mr. Unruh, noting that
employment had been more than 120,000 people in 1986 when
Burroughs Corp. and Sperry Corp. merged to form Unisys, said:
"This has been very painful, because of the effects on the
people. I mean, going from 122,000 people to 60,000no one
should have to go through that."