Dollar Dry Dock
   Sale to Emigrant
   Cleared by FDIC
   ----
   By Kenneth H. Bacon
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
"Our program is to keep the performing assets from being
liquidated," FDIC Chairman William Taylor explained recently.
The FDIC has been criticized, particularly in New England,
for handling bank failures in a way that led to the rapid
termination of credit to borrowers who were making monthly
interest payments but whose ultimate ability to repay their
loans in full was in doubt because of sharp declines in the
value of underlying real estate collateral.
   Emigrant has three years to return up to $985 million in
classified loans -- those that government examiners believe
won't be repaid in full -- to the FDIC for eventual
liquidation. But for two years it can't return any classified
loans on which payments are being made.
   Dollar failed because it made too many bad real estate
loans. Emigrant is purchasing $3.6 billion of its loans and
other assets. Of that amount, $300 million in loans are
currently in default because payments aren't being made. An
additional $100 million are classified as likely to go into
default, although the borrowers are current on their
payments. The FDIC expects more loans to sour over time.
   Emigrant will take over 20 of Dollar's 21 branches. Apple
Savings Bank, a New York bank with $3.5 billion in deposits,
will take over one branch. Emigrant paid the FDIC a premium
of $32.9 million, and Apple paid $1.5 million.
   The FDIC estimates that the failure will cost it a total
of $574 million after it sells off Dollar's sick assets,
including a portfolio of foreclosed real estate.
   To help Emigrant gather the capital it needs to acquire
Dollar's deposits, the FDIC purchased 339,000 shares of
Emigrant preferred stock for $33.9 million. The rate on the
stock will float at four percentage points over the one-year
Treasury bill rate for the first year and then rise one-half
a percentage point a year. The FDIC has the right to sell the
stock at any time.
   Whenever possible, the FDIC wants to keep loans under bank
management, rather than forcing them into liquidation. Last
month, when it couldn't find a purchaser to take over the
loan portfolio of CrossLand Savings FSB, a failed New York
thrift, it acquired the bank itself and installed new
management. The FDIC's goal is to shrink the bank and then
sell it. But the $1.2 billion rescue has been widely
criticized in Congress and by bank analysts as a bad
investment in an overcrowded banking market.