International:
   Algeria Cancels
   Second Round
   Of Elections
   ---
   Move Follows Resignation
   Of President, Thwarts
   Fundamentalist's Gains
   ----
   By Peter Waldman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
In a first round of voting Dec. 26, Islamic
fundamentalists won 188 of 231 seats on the ballot, almost
assuring them of obtaining the parliamentary majority in the
second round. A fundamentalist victory in Thursday's
elections, which had been widely expected, would pave the way
for the first Islamic republic in North Africa, and would
make Algeria the world's first nation to bring Islamic
radicals to power through the ballot box. That prospect was
worrisome to many domestically and internationally.
   The platform of the fundamentalists' party, the Islamic
Salvation Front, promises better economic times, but also
calls for banning the consumption of alcohol, separating the
sexes at school, and protecting the family -- a position
widely interpreted as denying jobs to women.
   Mr. Bendjedid's departure, which had all the marks of a
backstage military coup, provides a temporary solution to
Algeria's fundamentalist threat. In the event of the
president's resignation, Algeria's constitution calls for
presidential elections to be held within 45 days, during
which time the current government cannot be altered.
   Thus, by ousting Mr. Bendjedid, Algeria's military
leaders, who have pledged to uphold the nation's "unity"
against the fundamentalists' threat to impose Islamic law,
have bought some badly needed time without announcing a
blatant coup d'etat. Council members include acting head of
state Abdelmalek Benhabyles, who took over from Mr.
Bendjedid, top members of the army and security forces, the
prime minister and the defense, interior and justice
ministers.
   "The threat is much less immediate now," said Zoubida
Haddab, a political scientist at the Univerity of Algeria.
"But it's only a stop-gap measure; the Islamists haven't gone
away."
   The Islamic Front vowed to make Algeria an Islamic state
and described democracy as "atheism." The fundamentalist
party's provisional leader, Abdelkader Hachani, termed Mr.
Bendjedid's departure "a piece of theater aimed at
suppressing the people." His statement warned "against any
measures to thwart the people's choice."
   The independent newspaper El-Watan said that "the big
unknown is how the Islamic Salvation Front will react. It
must feel extremely cheated out of certain victory in the
legislative elections."
   One Islamic Front leader who declined to be named said the
fundamentalists' reaction to cancellation of the elections
will depend on how the government proceeds. For now, he said,
the Front doesn't plan to mobilize its people in the streets.
"If the president of the Constitutional Council decides to
make the second round {of legislative elections} after the
presidential election, that will be OK," he said. "We're for
the constitution."
   Though all was normal in the streets of Algiers this
weekend, except for the occasional tank and soldier with
bayonet, the fundamentalists are expected to seek vindication
if a presidential election is actually held. A statement
issued by the Defense Ministry reaffirms the military's
loyalty to the constitution. But that loyalty would be sorely
tested in a presidential campaign in which a fundamentalist
candidate would be a clear favorite.
   The Algerian situation illustrates the problems of
introducing democracy to a Muslim country with extreme
poverty and bad memories of Western colonialism. Since
winning its independence in 1962 after a long war with
France, Algeria has vacillated between socialist and
capitalist models, and between its French, Arab and North
African heritages.
   Today, the core of the Islamic fundamentalists' support is
among Algeria's 21 million people under age 30-75% of the
population -- many of whom have no jobs and little hope of
improvement. Unemployment runs officially at 23%, but
Algerians say it's much higher.
   An exhibition at the Islamic Front's headquarters here
provides few details of the fundamentalist economic program,
but prosperity is assured in an Islamic state, they say, from
such Koranic instructions as government control of wages and
prices. As for women, the display says they will be required
to wear traditional Muslim garb, including head coverings.
   Many Algerians think Mr. Bendjedid was asked by the
military to resign because he didn't take a hard enough line
against the fundamentalists. Though he denied it, the local
press reported before his resignation that the president met
with Islamic leaders -- an allegation that dovetailed with
the Front's proclamation that Mr. Bendjedid should serve the
remaining two years of his term, rather than resign as the
Front had previously demanded.
   "The military lost confidence" in Mr. Bendjedid, said
Pierre Colonna, a Frenchborn doctor who has lived in Algeria
since 1948. "There was a difference of opinion in the
military on when to stop the {electoral} process. They
finally decided they couldn't let {the president} play games
with the Islamic Front."