Your Money Matters:
   Going Solo? Pack Insurance Policies in Your Pocket
   ----
   By Lynn Asinof
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
"It is a major issue," says Virginia Applegarth, a Boston
insurance adviser, noting that lots of people are testing the
waters of self-employment, thanks to the economy and
corporate layoffs.
   Anyone starting a business should be prepared to budget a
sizable chunk of money to cover basic personal insurance
costs -- unless coverage is provided under a spouse's
corporate plan. A hypothetical family of four in the Boston
area, for example, would have to come up with nearly $10,000
a year to cover the costs for fully replacing health,
disability and life insurance coverage previously provided by
corporate benefits, says Robert M. Graham of insurance agents
Dwight Rudd  Co., Boston.
   Life insurance may be the easiest problem to tackle. While
most corporate plans allow departing employees to convert to
a more expensive cash value policy, the only reason to do
that is if you are "flat-out uninsurable," says Peter Katt, a
West Bloomfield, Mich., life-insurance adviser.
   Term insurance is the product of choice here, since it
provides needed protection with lower premiums. "When you are
starting up a business, you are going to need all the capital
that is available to you," says Mr. Katt. For a 35-year-old
man, for example, a $150,000 annually renewable term policy
from USAA Life Insurance Co. will cost $183, with the rate
rising to $219 by the time he's 40.
   Make sure the policy is annually renewable with reasonable
rate increases.
   Disability insurance is a thornier problem. Since people
starting out on their own don't have any income, they can't
insure it against disability. "It would be like trying to get
insurance on their house if they didn't own one," says
Charles Soule, president of Paul Revere Insurance Group,
Worcester, Mass.
   One way around this problem is to get an individual policy
before you leave the corporate fold. "That is an excellent
idea," says Mr. Soule, noting these policies are portable and
the benefit amount is based on your salary at the time of
purchase. The annual cost? For a 35-year-old man earning
$75,000 a year, a Paul Revere policy with a 90-day waiting
period, 60% replacement coverage through age 65 and an option
to increase coverage in the future would cost $1,411.
   If you don't buy ahead of time, insurers sometimes are
willing to write a disability policy for someone -- a lawyer,
for example -- who has a proven track record and is now off
on his own. A free-lance writer, on the other hand, may have
to wait until he or she could prove a somewhat stable income
before qualifying.
   "Most companies will work with you," says Karen Spero, a
Cleveland-based financial planner. "You may not get all you
want initially," but that doesn't mean it's not worth
pursuing.
   For example, she says that even if you don't qualify for
an individual policy, you may be able to get some disability
insurance through a professional association. Later you can
buy supplemental or wraparound policies to increase this
coverage.
   Health insurance is clearly the biggest insurance headache
for the newly self-employed. If you're leaving the corporate
world, you can opt to pick up your corporate group policy
under the terms of Cobra, the federal Consolidated Omnibus
Reconciliation Act. Cobra guarantees you the right to 18
months coverage at group rates. This is a good idea for
anyone with health problems. But this coverage will run out,
so it's best to start shopping around early.
   "You may be healthier now than you will be in 18 months,"
says Steven Enright, a River Vale, N.J., financial planner.
"So you may be better off seeking out health insurance right
away."
   There are three basic options: individual policies,
one-person group policies and health maintenance
organizations.
   Individual policies typically cover much less than group
plans. In most cases they will pick up only 80% of your costs
for the first $5,000 of covered expenses and have no option
for adding dental coverage. You can cut your costs up front
by choosing a plan with a high deductible. Insurance
consultant Peter Katt, for example, just bought health
coverage for himself and his wife, opting for a
$2,500-per-person deductible.
   The reason? "I want insurance," he says. "I don't want
someone paying our {basic} medical bills."
   Indeed, the savings can be considerable. Take the case of
a Boston-area family of four where the husband is age 35 and
the wife is 33. An individual policy from Time Insurance Co.
with a $350 individual or $1,050 family deductible would cost
$432 a month. But increase the deductible to $1,000 per
person or $3,000 per family, and the premium drops to $310 a
month. At a $5,000 individual or $15,000 family deductible,
the cost is only $184 a month.
   "Whatever deductible you choose, plan that you are going
to have to pay those funds," says Ms. Applegarth. If you
gamble with high deductibles, she says, you have to be able
to cover the cost if you lose.
   Families with young children may prefer to pay higher
premiums for more comprehensive insurance, such as 100% of
covered expenses after deductibles are met. One-person group
policies may apply here. That same Boston-area family would
pay $635 a month for $300 deductible coverage from Guardian
Life Insurance Co. of America that "can be as complete as you
might receive under a larger group," says Mr. Graham of
Dwight Rudd  Co. One-person group policies can also be
packaged with group term life, some form of disability and
dental insurance.
   Sometimes you can find ways to qualify for group health
insurance through a professional group or association. In
Cleveland, for example, the Council of Smaller Enterprises
came up with a program to get better health insurance rates
for the small-business owner. "They have a number of
different coverages," says Ms. Spero, who often recommends
that her clients join.
   Another option is a health maintenance organization, or
HMO. HMOs offer medical coverage -- some with in-house
facilities and others through a medical network -- with
patients charged a small co-payment for various services. And
they are priced to be competitive with insurance
alternatives.
   Harvard Community Health Plan, for example, would charge
that same Boston family $470 a month for a plan that requires
the family to pay $10 per doctor's visit, $50 a day for a
hospital stay up to $250 per visit and includes no
prescription drug coverage unless associated with a hospital
stay.
   Even if you manage to find the very best insurance deals
-- cutting that $10,000 replacement figure to, say, $5,000 --
the bottom line may seem staggering. The only good news is
that as a self-employed person, 25% of your health insurance
is deductible as a business expense, at least for now.
   That tax break is set to expire in July, leaving the
self-employed footing the full bill unless Congress takes
action. Some are confident it will. To get rid of that
provision now, says Stuart Kessler, senior tax partner at
Goldstein, Golub  Kessler, New York, "would be almost
heartless."
   ---
       What It Would Cost To Replace What You've Got
                                                                                                       

   Typical costs to replace insurance coverage for a family
of four when the breadwinner moves from the corporate to the
entrepreneurial world. Rates assume a 35-year-old man earning
$75,000 a year and living in the Boston area with his wife
and two children.
                                                                                                       

                       HEALTH INSURANCE
                                                                                                       

 TYPE OF COVERAGE   TERMS                        PREMIUM
                                                                                                       

 One person group   100% of covered expenses     $635/month
                    after deductible ($300
                    individual, $900 family)
                                                                                                       

                    Same plus dental             $701/month
                                                                                                       

 Individual         80% of covered expenses      $432/month
                    after deductible ($350
                    individual, $1,050 family)
                    for first $5,000; 100%
                    thereafter
                                                                                                       

 HMO                100% coverage after per-     $470/month
                    service payment
                                                                                                       

                      DISABILITY INSURANCE
                                                                                                       

 Individual         60% salary replacement       $1,411/year
                    until age 65 with 90-day
                    waiting period; includes
                    option for future coverage
                    increase
                                                                                                       

                         LIFE INSURANCE
                                                                                                       

 Individual-Term    Twice annual salary,         $183/year
                    annually renewable