Letters to the Editor:
   Dumb Textbooks Beget Dumbness
Norman Darden
   New York
   ---
   I'm not surprised by the findings reported in your
article. I publish a newsletter, and I recently needed to
verify that U.S. suffrage originally was limited to male
property owners. I drove to my local branch library and was
amazed at how shallow today's history texts are. I could find
no such verification. I returned home, where it occurred to
me that I had some of my father's old high-school texts (from
the 1930s). I quickly and easily found the backup I needed.
   If anyone wants to know why Johnny "don't know much about
history," I suggest a comparison between the texts of the
1930s and the drivel of today.
   Larry Roth
   San Jose, Calif.
   ---
   Your article quotes the chairman of a high-school
social-studies department as saying that he didn't check the
final manuscript of a text he co-authored because he believes
this to be the publisher's responsibility. The remark
represents at best an astonishing, and at worst an
outrageous, abdication of author's responsibility.
   If your name is on it, you're responsible for it . . . and
too bad for you if you think otherwise. You can't blame your
secretary, and you can't blame your publisher, when gross
factual or grammatical errors pop up in a letter that goes
out over your signature, or in a text that appears with your
name as author.
   If you wrote the book, you're on the hook.
   George Haber
   Coordinator,
   Business and Technical Communications Program
   New York Institute of Technology
   Old Westbury, N.Y.
   ---
   What is American education coming to? In your article I
read: "For me to read the book and check it for factual
accuracy simply makes no sense. . . ." This quote is
attributed to an author of one of the textbooks. Balderdash]
I have never read such a disingenuous statement. As a former
university professor and author of numerous books, I can
categorically state that the author (not the publisher, not
the printer, not the referee, not the reviewer) and solely
the author is responsible for the accuracy of his text.
   Kenneth S. Miller
   Rye Brook, N.Y.
   ---
   While doing volunteer athletic physicals at our local high
school, I had the opportunity to browse through a few history
texts. It was shocking to read the dry, bland stream of facts
concerning people, dates, places and events. Any discussion
of issues seemed watered down and flat, apparently in an
attempt not to offend anyone.
   History is the exciting, dynamic story of humankind's
endeavors and aspirations. The colorless descriptions I read
make me feel sorry for the youth who have to plow through
this boring material that surely leaves little or no lasting
impression.
   Ed Miron, M.D.
   Calhoun, Ga.
   ---
   There should be little surprise at the findings of the
Texas Board of Education regarding the content of the 10
newly published history books. These egregious errors only
reflect the continuing results of the decline of American
education beginning at least 25 years ago. We now have a
self-reinforcing situation (the engineer would say positive
feedback) as those educationally disadvantaged graduates have
entered the work force in positions in public view where
their handicaps have widespread influence on the "knowledge"
of others.
   The evidence is not only in textbooks; it's all around us,
before our eyes in print and on the screen, and in our ears.
The TV weatherman tells us that the storm will move further
north. The financial writer directs us to compare $99 billion
this year to $73 billion last year. The teacher, describing
the dimensions, refers to the enormity of the task. And, of
course, 60% of us use compose and comprise interchangeably,
with the permission of a recently acclaimed dictionary.
   Allen S. Brower
   Burnt Hills, N.Y.
   ---
   I recently completed substantially all of the
undergraduate courses in accounting at our local state
university, and I felt outraged by the quality of the
assigned texts. The text for intermediate accounting was
replete with plagiarism from the Financial Accounting
Standards Boards literature. But worse were instances where,
without any concern about redundancy, the authors attempted
to restate in their own words the ideas and strictures in an
FASB pronouncement. In some cases their understanding was
conspicuously flawed, which of course led to internal
inconsistency.
   I find it hard to believe that the faculty, many of whom
teach with one hand on the "teaching guide" supplied by the
publisher, ever take a really serious look at the texts.
   Robert B. Holden
   Manhattan Beach, Calif.
   ---
   Your article contained its own gaffe. You said that
"three-quarters of state legislatures must ratify amendments"
(rather than two-thirds). While that is closer to being
right, it's still wrong.
   Article V of the U.S. Constitution says amendments become
part of the Constitution "when ratified by the legislatures
of three-fourths" of the States, "or by Conventions in
three-fourths." The mode of ratification is selected by
Congress. One amendment, the 21st, was approved through state
ratification conventions.
   David Keating
   Washington