Abreast of the Market:
   Taking Stock: Here Are Simple Tools
   For Gauging the Health of the Market
   ----
   By Douglas R. Sease and Robert Steiner
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
But just as you don't keeping tooling down the highway in
your car without occasionally checking the gas gauge, some
investment experts suggest similar occasional checks of the
stock market. If there's gas left, relax and enjoy the ride.
   Experts can spout enough jargon to make the stock market
seem complicated and esoteric to the average investor. Yet if
you're not trying to play the daily and weekly shifts in the
market -- and most individual investors shouldn't be doing
that -- much of the sound and fury isn't necessary.
   For example, Hugh Johnson, chief investment officer at
First Albany Corp., says one reason investors can relax is
that as bull markets go, this one is still young and
vigorous. "The average bull market lasts 43 months and
results in a 98.1% gain in stock prices," he says. So far,
this bull market, which Mr. Johnson says began in October
1990, is only 15 months old and has provided only a 36% rise.
   In using this history to gauge what the future may hold,
Mr. Johnson conservatively eliminates the raging bull market
of 1982-1990, which lifted the Dow industrials 286%. On that
basis, he says, "If this bull market is just an average bull
market, it would end in August of 1993 with the Dow
industrials at 4045."
   He cautions that long-term investors shouldn't try to time
the inevitable temporary declines that occur in bull markets.
"It's extraordinarily difficult to call short-term swings in
the market," he says. "What you want to be able to do is to
catch most of the rise in a bull market and avoid most of the
losses in a bear market."
   The tool that works best for that, he says, is a simple
chart comparing where the market ends each week with the
average performance of the market during the preceding 53
weeks. Mr. Johnson says technical analysts have determined
that as long as the market finishes every Friday at a level
above the 53-week moving average, owning stocks is fine. When
it falls below the moving average, it's time to sell.
   "That way, you enjoy the ride up, avoid most of the
declines, and don't get chewed up by sales commissions on
frequent trades," he explains.
   Setting up your own chart takes a little initial
investment of time and effort, but once it is constructed,
maintaining it requires only a few minutes each week. Add the
Friday closes of the index you choose for the past 53 weeks
(for the Dow Jones industrials the total as of last Friday
was 158,557) and divide by 53 to get the average (2992 for
the Dow). Behold: Friday's decline to 3225.40 didn't come
close to pushing the Dow below the 53-week moving average.
   (To keep a moving average, you must each week drop the
oldest Friday close and add the latest, again dividing by
53.)
   But other analysts contend that it's even easier for
typical investors to figure out whether the stock market is
the place to be. "The statistics suggest one thing this week
and another thing next week, creating a lot of noise," says
Abby Cohen, a strategist at Goldman Sachs. "You should try to
ignore the noise and just identify the key trends."
   She thinks investors should avoid getting bogged down in
market and economic minutiae, and instead obtain investment
guidance by answering a simple set of questions. Such as: Is
the economy going to be better six months from now than it is
right now?
   "The answer clearly is `yes,'" she says. "We can't prove
yet that things are getting better, but we know they're not
getting worse." With the Federal Reserve clearly committed to
sparking an economic recovery, she says, there's little
reason to worry that another slump lies ahead.
   Next question: Is inflation going to be a problem in the
next several months? The answer is no. Not only is inflation
slowing in the U.S.; it's slowing abroad as well, she says.
Raw materials are in abundant supply, there's plenty of idle
factory capacity and lots of people are out of work. Indeed,
Ms. Cohen suggests that there may be more factory capacity
and more unemployment, or at least "underemployment," than
most analysts think.
   "As a nation that imports and exports we should look at
factory capacity beyond our own borders," she says, "and if
we do we would find a great deal of slack that government
statistics don't pick up."
   On the employment front, she adds, "we have a lot of
part-time workers working fewer hours than they would like to
and a lot of discouraged workers who aren't even looking for
work. It will take an extended period of economic growth
before the labor markets start getting tight."
   Finally, ask if there are any attractive investment
alternatives to the stock market. "Here it's a question of
alternatives that look better in an environment of moderate
economic growth," she says. "In that kind of environment what
we have found in the past is that stocks are the best place
to be."
   But it mightn't be all that easy after all. Gail Dudack,
chief market strategist for S.G. Warburg, worries that the
stock market won't be easy to evaluate until the 1992
presidential election is settled.
   "Politics plays a bigger role right now than normal," she
says. "The big hurdle between having faith that inflation is
under control and fearing that it's out of control has to do
with fiscal policy. But we don't know what the Democratic
package will be."
   She also warns that political uncertainty means investors
can't be sure that another cut in interest rates would boost
stock prices the way one did in late December.
   "Another easing could be seen as inflationary if Congress
is also expected to come up with a stimulative package," she
says.
   ---
   Friday's Market Activity
                                                                                                       

   Stock prices fell when the Federal Reserve refused to ease
interest rates in spite of a weaker-than-expected jobs report
for January.
   The Dow Jones Industrial Average fell 30.19 to 3225.40.
Standard  Poor's 500Stock Index lost 2.73 to 411.09, and the
New York Stock Exchange Composite Index fell 1.31 to 227.65.
Declining issues outpaced advancers at the Big Board, 977 to
702. Volume dropped to 230,950,000 shares from 238,180,000
shares Thursday.
   For the week, the industrial average added 2.01 points, or
0.06%, while the SP 500 added 0.57%, and the New York Stock
Exchange Composite Index advanced 0.64%.
   Some bank stocks retreated Friday, led by Citicorp, which
lost 3/8 to 16 1/2 on volume of more than four million
shares. BankAmerica fell 1/4 to 40 3/8 and Security Pacific
lost 1 1/2 to 33 on fears that a bill in the Washington state
legislature could scuttle the banks' merger.
   Thomas Industries dropped 1 1/4 to 12 1/4. Late Thursday,
the lighting and vacuum pump maker slashed its quarterly
dividend to 10 cents from 19 cents.
   Compaq Computer rallied 1 3/4 to 30 1/4. First Boston
upgraded its rating on the stock to "buy" from "hold."
   Digital Equipment edged up 1/2 to 53 3/8. The company
plans to cut its research spending by $400 million.
   Circuit City Stores rose 2 3/8 to 33. Goldman Sachs raised
its fiscal 1992 and 1993 earnings estimates for the company.
   Go-Video jumped 7/8 to 2 3/4. The maker of dual-deck
videocassette recorders said demand for its latest model has
increased "dramatically."
   Graham-Field Health Products gained 1 to 10 3/4. The
company said it will buy the assets and business of Diamond
Medical Equipment and National Health Care Equipment for
about $11.5 million plus certain liabilities.