Commodities:
   Wheat Prices Rise Further as Traders Speculate
   On U.S. Loan Guarantees to C.I.S. for Food Aid
   ----
   By Scott Kilman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
In trading at the Chicago Board of Trade yesterday, prices
of several wheat futures contracts set life-of-contract highs
during the session. The wheat contract for March delivery
increased 3.25 cents a bushel to settle at $4.4975 a bushel.
   Grain traders are focusing on the prospects for summer
food aid because in April the commonwealth is slated to
receive the last $250 million allotment of a loan guarantee
package that was announced in November. The U.S. has extended
a total of $3.75 billion in loan guarantees since the former
Soviet Union began having trouble financing its food imports
more than a year ago.
   The speculation has flared up in recent days because
representatives of the commonwealth's grain importing agency
are visiting U.S. industry and government officials.
   According to grain traders, the Russian republic is
independently asking the U.S. government for $600 million in
loan guarantees to finance the delivery of wheat and
livestock rations this summer. There are also reports that
representatives of the grain importing agency have told some
U.S. officials that the rest of the commonwealth might
require more than $1 billion of U.S.-backed guarantees.
   U.S. wheat prices are extremely sensitive to the food aid
reports because U.S. stockpiles are expected to shrink to
tight levels by the summer. What's more, it isn't clear how
rapidly U.S. stockpiles will be replenished by the wheat
harvest this summer. Traders are growing concerned that a
significant amount of the Midwest wheat crop is in poor
condition.
   Corn and soybean prices haven't been influenced as much by
the food aid speculation because traders are reasoning that
the commonwealth would use much of any assistance to acquire
wheat. Corn prices settled mixed yesterday while soybean
prices slipped.
   The food situation in the commonwealth is also beginning
to roil the U.S. livestock markets. The Bush administration
is considering whether to begin giving bonuses to companies
that export U.S. pork at a discount to the commonwealth. The
department has traditionally used its Export Enhancement
Program to promote U.S. crop exports.
   In trading at the Chicago Mercantile Exchange yesterday,
the price of the pork belly contract for February delivery
jumped its daily permissible limit of two cents a pound to
settle at 36.92 cents a pound. Pork bellies are used to make
bacon. Hog futures prices also rose.
   The trade group for U.S. hog farmers has been pressing the
administration to subsidize exports as a way to help reduce a
price-depressing glut of pork. U.S. meatpackers are
slaughtering about 8.5% more hogs a week than they did at the
same time last year and the price received by many farmers
has fallen to break even levels.
   According to traders, the administration is considering
whether to subsidize the export of roughly 30,000 metric tons
of pork to the commonwealth. Such an amount is equal to
one-third of the U.S. pork exported in 1990.
   It isn't clear whether U.S. consumers would see a
significant increase in the retail price of pork from such an
arrangement. The amount of pork under consideration is equal
to about 386,000 hogs, or roughly the number of hogs that
U.S. meatpackers slaughter on a busy day.
   The National Pork Producers Council first approached the
Agriculture Department with the idea in November. Although
the former Soviet republics are large importers of pork, much
of it has come from Europe.
   The administration is considering the pork deal at a time
when export subsidies are becoming increasingly
controversial. Consumer activists and some food companies are
growing concerned that the Agriculture Department is
subsidizing the export of too much wheat at a time when
domestic supplies are tight.
   Some grain firms are also complaining that the subsidies
have failed to increase the U.S.'s market share of the world
wheat trade. Cargill Inc., the nation's largest grain
exporter, told a congressional subcommittee yesterday that
the government's Export Enhancement Program is a flop.
   Although Cargill has collected roughly $800 million under
the program, the company has long argued that the program
should be used to promote the export of value-added farm
products.
   In other commodity markets yesterday:
                                                                                                       

   ENERGY: After a day of hesitant, technical trading, the
March crude oil contract finished unchanged from the day
before at $19.50 a barrel on the New York Mercantile
Exchange. April and other months settled lower, as well.
Early in the day, prices were higher, continuing Wednesday's
rally. But trading soon became fairly lackluster as market
players again retreated to safe positions ahead of next
week's meeting of the Organizaton of Petroleum Exporting
Countries in Geneva. Generally, traders and analysts seem to
expect additional production cuts from OPEC that would push
prices higher. Indeed, some press reports said Iran's oil
minister yesterday warned of a sharp drop in crude oil prices
if OPEC doesn't reduce its production. Heating oil and
gasoline contracts ended the trading session lower.
                                                                                                       

   PRECIOUS METALS: Platinum futures prices rose sharply on
continued concerns about supply disruptions. After trading as
high as $372 an ounce, platinum for April delivery ended at
$368, up $5.60. William O'Neill, senior futures strategist at
Merrill Lynch, said cutbacks in nickel production and the
imposition of an export tax in Russia have raised concerns
about supply from that republic. Nina Lipton, research
manager at the Platinum Guild International (USA), said the
former Soviet Union was "the main culprit" behind the glut
over the past two years, but an oversupply apparently won't
be a problem now. In fact, she pointed out, futures prices
are in "backwardation" (meaning contracts due to expire soon
are higher priced than those expiring later), indicating
tightness in supply. The fragile labor situation in South
Africa also continues to worry traders, who speculate that
70,000 to 100,000 ounces of production were lost to labor
disruptions up to this point, and another 100,000 ounces
could be lost this year if problems persist, Mr. O'Neill
said. The recently reported increase in car sales is
encouraging, he said, but for platinum to rally beyond
current levels, the global economy will need to improve.
                                                                                                       

   COCOA: After a one-day hiatus, futures prices resumed the
decline that has eroded more than $80 a ton from the price of
March cocoa in the past week. The March contract ended at
$1,121 a ton, down $17. Arthur Stevenson, analyst at
Prudential Securities, attributed the decline to speculation
among market participants that the projected supply deficit
this year won't be as large as previously thought.
Indications of a larger crop are coming from Ghana weekly
purchasing figures, which show the amount of cocoa bought by
the government from farmers, and Ivory Coast weekly arrivals,
or the amount of cocoa that arrives at coastal export sites,
Mr. Stevenson said. In addition, technical factors have
prompted speculative traders to liquidate their long
positions, or bets the price will rise, by selling offsetting
contracts, he said.