IBM Scenario
   For Succession
   Grows Murky
   ---
   As One Top Official Leaves,
   Akers May Be Looking
   At Younger Executives
   ----
   By Paul B. Carroll
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Ordinarily, Mr. Armstrong could have been expected to be
anointed soon. Under IBM policy, Mr. Akers is to retire
toward the end of 1994, when he reaches age 60, and IBM
tradition suggests that he should indicate soon who his
successor will be. That way, the person could spend a couple
of years in transition.
   Instead, Mr. Armstrong's departure -- to become chairman
and chief executive of General Motors Corp.'s Hughes Aircraft
Co. unit -- suggests Mr. Akers will almost certainly skip
over a whole generation of executives and pick a successor
from among a group in their mid to late 40s, some of whom
have promising track records but who haven't been fully
tested. Mr. Armstrong's move also raises the possibility that
Mr. Akers, who became chief executive at the relatively young
age of 50, will decide to stay on awhile past the normal
retirement age so a successor can be groomed. The retirement
age isn't always enforced; Mr. Akers, for instance, recently
asked IBM President Jack Kuehler to stay on past this fall,
when he turns 60.
   The two executives who now appear to have the best shot
are Bob LaBant, who runs IBM's U.S. marketing operations, and
Bernard Puckett, who runs a big software business. Mr. LaBant
had even been mentioned as a dark horse candidate before Mr.
Armstrong stepped down, because of the prominence of the role
he took over from Mr. Conrades in December and because he has
long been seen as an Akers favorite.
   He is tightly wound but amiable. When he ran IBM's AS/400
minicomputer business, he occasionally would joke about how,
despite his authority, he could never convince the kitchen at
the IBM facility in Rochester, Minn., to stop serving huge
breakfasts of eggs and ham in the executive dining room. Some
years back, when he had the honor of introducing Mr. Akers
before a group of senior IBM executives, he flubbed it,
getting the pages out of order and standing mute for several
embarrassing moments. But he recovered, telling someone who
planned to speak to the group the next day that it would be
easy to find where to stand. "All you have to do is look for
the puddle of sweat on the floor," Mr. LaBant said.
   Still, Mr. LaBant's main success was the AS/400, where he
was in charge only about a year and a half and where he was
mainly building on the success of his predecessor, Steve
Schwartz, who is Mr. Akers's age and thus not in the
succession picture. If Mr. LaBant can turn around IBM's
struggling U.S. operations, then he would have solid
credentials for the top spot, but it will be a year or two
before his results become clear.
   Mr. Puckett likewise finds himself in a hot seat, where he
could demonstrate he has what it takes to be chairman. Mr.
Puckett, also known for a long time as an Akers favorite, has
been responsible for about a year for software and services
businesses that IBM sees as central to its plans to rely less
on its hardware operations. But it will be awhile before his
results become clear.
   In the job before this one, he briefly ran IBM's mainframe
division and put together a plan that in late 1990 appeared
to smoothly move customers from one generation of mainframe
to the next. That plan apparently eliminated the disruption
in IBM's sales that usually lasts for several months when new
machines become available. But that plan began to unravel
early last year, and the mainframe business languished for
most of the year.