And We Can Anticipate a Flurry
   Of Sequels 500 Years From Now
   ----
   By Meg Cox
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
For more advanced scholars, there is the 900-page
"Columbus Encyclopedia" from Simon  Schuster. If that
doesn't suffice, try the 16-volume Columbus series from
UCLA's Center for Medieval and Renaissance Studies.
   For cat- and cartoon-fanciers, there is "Garfield
Discovers America," due in March. Due in April is "Columbus a
la Mode," which recounts events in the explorer's life in the
style of famous writers -- including an account of his wife's
gruesome death as Stephen King might have written it.
   Another noteworthy entry is "The Guinness Book of Records,
1492," which features facts and feats of that year. Editors
at Guinness hired a Cambridge University professor to
research the period. The resulting book, a joint production
with Guinness's American publisher, Facts on File, serves as
a sort of sociological snapshot of the 15th century.
   Don't expect to discover which explorer set the record for
eating Genoa salami in one sitting -- there aren't a lot of
the trademark stunts covered in Guinness's accounts of more
recent years. But the editors did manage to dig up some
bizarre trivia in such categories as food, popular beliefs,
industry and exploration.
   The largely teen-age audience that laps up such books
probably won't be riveted by "the most controversial
political memoir" of the day but might be curious about who
was the first European to see a turkey or how many people
were put to death for witchcraft. Then there is "the most
persevering seducer" category, won by a Chinese man of the
period, Sang Chong, who seduced several hundred virgins after
he bound his feet, dressed as a woman and offered to teach
"women's work" to families with attractive daughters.
   Publishers haven't forgotten the iconoclasts among us. One
book argues that lots of other explorers got to this
hemisphere before you-know-who. Title of that work: "Columbus
Was Last."