Commodities:
   Wet Spring May Hurt Corn, Soybean Planting,
   Dry Summer May Stall Growth, Forecasters Say
   ----
   By Stanley W. Angrist and Anita Raghavan
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Paul Handler, editor of the Atlas Forecasts of Urbana,
Ill., believes that the recent volcanic eruption of Mt.
Pinatubo in the Philippines will greatly affect weather
around the world. Though his views aren't shared by all
forecasters, some traditional meteorologists agree with Mr.
Handler's outlook for a spring that could be wet enough to
interfere with the planting of corn and soybeans.
   "The weather this winter and the rainfall in California
resemble what happened in 1983," following the eruption of
the El Chichon volcano in Mexico, Mr. Handler says. He notes
that in 1983 California received above-average rainfall -- as
it has this year to break five years of drought -- and the
major growing regions of the Midwest had a wet spring.
   But even less beneficial weather patterns of 1983 also may
return. For instance, around July 1, 1983, "it stopped
raining in the corn belt and hot, dry weather appeared and
hurt corn pollination roughly south of Interstate 80," Mr.
Handler says. He expects a similar pattern this year with
hot, dry weather appearing in July and August in the corn and
soybean-growing areas of Illinois, Indiana and Iowa.
   Kevin Marcus, director of Cropcast Services, a Rockville,
Md., weather consulting firm, thinks the eruption of Mt.
Pinatubo at about the time El Nino was beginning will
increase the intensity of this other weird-weather generator.
El Nino is an abnormal warming of the equatorial Pacific,
which produces long-range weather phenomena. The warmer these
waters get, the more weather patterns are changed and the
more growing conditions are affected.
   Mr. Marcus agrees with Mr. Handler that the summer weather
in the U.S. will be more extreme than normal. "We are going
to have a hot, dry period," he says. "I just can't tell you
what day it is going to start."
   The timing of a hot spell is critical to crops. "If you
have a heat wave in early June, compared to late June, the
impact on corn would be totally different," says John Davis,
a meteorologist at Shearson Lehman Brothers. In late June,
corn is in its most yield-sensitive stage.
   In anticipation of weather troubles, Steve DeCook, an
agricultural futures-market money manager in Ankeny, Iowa,
has bought soybean futures contracts. But he hedged this bet
by selling call options against his futures position at
exercise prices far above current levels. Though he agrees
with Mr. Handler's forecast of hot, dry weather in late June
or early July, he doesn't expect soybean prices to rise
significantly soon. If prices do rise, the calls he sold
would be exercised, which limits the profits on his position.
But if prices don't rise to exercise levels, he and his
clients keep the proceeds of selling the call options.
   Meteorologist Harvey Freese of FreeseNotis, a commercial
weather service in Des Moines, Iowa, says he will be watching
to see if April and May are cool and wet in the U.S. and the
monsoon returns in India. If both situations occur, he would
endorse forecasts of hot, dry conditions in late summer, as
happened in 1983.
   The volatility of the weather is already having an effect
on crops. Last week the sudden drop in temperatures in the
Texas Panhandle, Oklahoma and southern Kansas probably
damaged the winter wheat crop, says Mr. Freese, though to
what extent won't be known for several weeks.
   Thad Chupallo, meteorologist for Merrill Lynch Futures in
New York, says the northern spring-wheat regions, which have
been dryer than normal this year, should benefit as the storm
track seasonally shifts northward. One sign that the storm
track is moving north is that southeastern North Dakota has
received one inch of moisture so far this month, compared
with its normal 0.8 inch for all of March.
   Mr. Handler cautions that if the volcanic material put
into the atmosphere by Mt. Pinatubo reduces sunlight
sufficiently, there might not be enough energy to change
weather patterns as he anticipates. In that case, he says, a
drought wouldn't occur.
   Looking ahead to other commodity markets this week:
                                                                                                       

   Livestock and Meats
                                                                                                       

   Traders expect an Agriculture Department report scheduled
for release Friday to signal tight supplies of beef cattle
this spring.
   Cash prices rose to strong levels last week in much of the
Midwest as meatpackers competed with each other to buy enough
cattle to keep their plants operating efficiently.
   Dan Vaught, a livestock analyst at A.G. Edwards  Sons,
St. Louis, is projecting that the government's March 1 survey
of seven major ranch states will show that about 8% fewer
cattle were being fattened on feedlots for slaughter compared
with the same date in 1991.
   Mr. Vaught also expects the government to report that
ranchers placed about 5% fewer young cattle onto feedlots in
February, and that the feedlots sold about 1% fewer cattle to
meatpackers compared with the same month in 1991.
                                                                                                       

   Energy
                                                                                                       

   The slump in petroleum prices that followed last month's
meeting of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries
may have run its course, some oil analysts and traders say.
They expect prices to firm after having been depressed for
several weeks. "Oil prices have found a `floor' and are more
likely to move up than down," reports the Energy Compass, a
London-based oil industry publication.
   There are some fundamental reasons behind such
projections. There is evidence OPEC's high production is
being trimmed, although the output cuts this month aren't as
deep as many would like to see. World oil inventories don't
appear burdensome despite the approach of the seasonally
slack demand period of the second quarter. In fact, "lean
global crude and product stocks keep the second-quarter
outlook fairly balanced," reports Energy Security Analysis, a
Washington firm that monitors petroleum supplies around the
world.
   But traders mainly cite technical factors for some of the
new strength in oil markets. U.S. futures trading ended last
week on a firm note, for example, after the expiring April
crude oil contract broke through the psychologically
important level of $19 a barrel. April crude ended the week
on the New York Mercantile Exchange at $19.18 a barrel, up 35
cents for the day. The May contract was up 33 cents to $19.35
a barrel.
                                                                                                       

   Precious Metals
                                                                                                       

   Traders will be watching for further declines in gold
futures today following losses late last week. On Friday,
gold for April delivery finished 70 cents lower at $347.30 an
ounce. The decline came after a government report showed that
price inflation at the producer level remained subdued in
February. One of the allures of gold is that it is viewed as
a hedge against inflation. James Steel, an analyst at Refco
Inc., said it is beginning "to look a little dark for gold,"
because it failed to close above the technically important
$348-an-ounce level Friday.