Calpers Is Pressing
   3 Firms to Discuss
   Shareholder Issues
   ----
   A Wall Street Journal News Roundup
The three companies are among 12 that Calpers named for
the first time as those that it has targeted for shareholder
action during this year's annual meetings. Another seven
target companies already have opened discussions or agreed to
meet with Calpers; and two others, ITT Corp. and Ryder System
Inc., have announced agreements to settle their differences
with Calpers.
   In a break with its past tactics of pressing demands by
introducing shareholder resolutions at target companies,
Calpers decided to enter into private negotiations before
this year's round of annual meetings, without previously
identifying the targets publicly.
   So far, results from new approach "are certainly mixed,
with some companies even refusing to meet with us," Dale
Hanson, Calpers's chief executive, said in a statement. "It's
no wonder these companies are such poor performers, given
some of their attitudes toward shareholders."
   In response to Calpers's announcement, a Polaroid
spokesman said, "We've invited them to be in forums {such as
analysts meetings} with other shareholders, including large
shareholders, and that's not what they want, I guess."
   Dial couldn't be reached for comment yesterday.
   In Minneapolis, a spokeswoman for Control Data said, "We
don't think a stockholder advisory committee is necessary
because we are frequently meeting with stockholders already."
   She added that Control Data executives intend to "meet
face-to-face" with Calpers officials, because "we don't think
they understand the reshaping Control Data is going through"
to try to improve its financial performance.
   Calpers might also oppose the election of directors at the
seven companies that have opened discussions with the pension
fund if accords aren't reached. Those companies are: American
Express Inc., Chrysler Corp., Hercules Inc., International
Business Machines Corp., Salomon Inc., Time Warner Inc. and
USAir Group.
   Calpers is the nation's largest public-employee pension
system and the most influential among activist pension funds.
But its opposition to a company's slate of directors is
unlikely to change an election result. That's because
shareholders can only withhold their proxy votes in director
elections, and can't actually cast a "no" vote against
directors.