Worm Turns Out
   To Have Many Uses
   Few Can Appreciate
   ---
   George Sroda's Pet Wiggler,
   Herman, Shoots Hoops,
   Can Be Baked Into Cookie
   ----
   By Robert Tomsho
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The 80-year-old Mr. Sroda is the only resident of this
farming community known to brag about baking worm cookies,
coaching basketball-playing wigglers and making television
appearances with a dancing Canadian night crawler named
Herman.
   "They call me Mr. Worms, Mr. Night Crawler and Mr.
Wiggler," he says in a breathless torrent. "I am teaching the
gospel all over the world that the worm is a valuable animal.
Appreciate it, be good to it, take care of it."
   Mr. Sroda's own wigglers -- all three million of them --
live in roomy Styrofoam pens, sleep on fluffy beds of
sphagnum peat and dine on secret-recipe feed. Sometimes he
also serves them brown sugar or chocolate ice cream for
dessert and pipes in a bit of Hawaiian-guitar music because,
he claims, the worms "like the vibrations."
   But while he promotes the virtues of worms as fish bait,
the "Worm Czar," as he calls himself, won't sell his own
subjects because, then, still more sportsmen would show up in
their pickup trucks and pester him. Moreover, except for
research, Mr. Sroda rarely goes fishing himself. "I don't
have the patience," he sputters. "I have to be moving all the
time."
   That usually rules out personal replies to the letters
asking advice on raising worms that pour in from as far away
as the Netherlands and Egypt. One afternoon recently, nine
big boxes of them were stacked up by the door. "These people
want help," declares Mr. Sroda who, for $5.95, sends a copy
of his book, "No Angle Left Unturned: Facts About
Nightcrawlers."
   But he doesn't rely on book sales alone to spread the
word. Indeed, his lab walls are plastered with more publicity
photos than a Hollywood tourist trap. There are glossies of
him shaking hands with fishing-show hosts, trading yuks with
Johnny Carson and introducing his slimy sidekicks to Billy
Crystal, Priscilla Presley and Shecky Greene.
   Also tacked up is a holiday snapshot of Herman coiled up
under a tiny Christmas tree. "I saved this guy from the
garbage can when he was only about 3 1/2 inches long," Mr.
Sroda says, gently pulling 16-inch Herman out from under the
little orange blanket that covers the floor of his private
pen. Dangling between his master's fingers, the celebrity
wiggler begins to undulate.
   "People think that when you're called a worm you're called
something undesirable," Mr. Sroda says. "I think it's
wonderful."
   Although most people still don't cozy up to a squirmy
creature that slithers through mud and manure, researchers
are experimenting with worms as sources of livestock feed and
fertilizer. Scientists are hoping that worms'
garbage-gobbling capacity can help ease the landfill
shortage, and homeowners are paying up to $19 a pound for
compost-munching red worms.
   They are available, for instance, from Mary Appelhof, a
Kalamazoo, Mich., worm advocate, who has sold 24,000 copies
of her book, "Worms Eat My Garbage" and has organized several
conferences of international worm researchers. George Sroda
has yet to attend one of these scholarly gatherings, but an
admiring Ms. Appelhof says Mr. Sroda is a walking
encyclopedia on the subject, adding that he "certainly gets
people's attention."
   Like some underground P.T. Barnum, Mr. Sroda dips live
worms in nontoxic paint, and they create "worm art," wiggling
across canvas. He videotapes his night crawlers dancing.
Ultraloud music makes them jump and shimmy. His latest video
features Herman nudging a pea-sized basketball across a
miniature court, pushing it maybe an inch or so into the air
and, after a bit of teetering, dumping it through a tiny
hoop. "He's the only worm in the world that will do that,"
boasts Mr. Sroda, who admits that capturing this moment in
worm history required 130 hours of taping.
   Mr. Sroda learned the art of promotion -- and made a small
fortune -- peddling turkeys door-to-door in the 1950s. He
also marketed a manure-based concoction called "Sroda's
Turkey Peat" and sold dyed turkey-feather "flowers" to
florists, striptease dancers and flamboyant wrestling legend
Gorgeous George.
   But in the early 1960s, the turkey baron stumbled across a
new challenge while watching some luckless fishermen bait
their hooks. "They were pulling out half-dead, dried-up,
shriveled-up worms," recalls Mr. Sroda, who thereupon sold
his turkey business and barreled off to develop a more
perfect fish bait.
   By day, he read worm literature. After dark, he wandered
through neighbors' yards and pastures with a flashlight,
rounding up night crawlers.
   "I knew he was kind of kooky," sighs Susan Sroda, who went
along with her husband's quest until some worms he had left
in the family refrigerator found their way into one of her
salads. Wiggler headquarters was promptly moved to the old
turkey slaughterhouse that still serves as Mr. Sroda's lab.
   Then there was the afternoon the Worm Czar absent-mindedly
blew his nose in a restaurant, remembering only when the
waitress screamed that he had stuffed several dozen night
crawlers into his handkerchief that morning. "It didn't
bother me a bit," he says proudly.
   In the early 1970s, he sold his growing worm-food and
bedding business to concentrate on breeding bigger worms,
winning them a wider public following and -- to his wife's
dismay -- experimenting with worms as food. "You can bake
them and boil them or dry them out, grind them up and put
them in your cookies and cakes," Mr. Sroda says.
   Unappetizing perhaps, but the idea has some nutritional
merit. "It is very high-grade protein, it's better than
beefsteak," says British entomolgist Clive Edwards, now on
the Ohio State University faculty. "They taste rather nice,
actually. Cooked."
   Unfortunately, most talk-show hosts wouldn't taste worm
cookies on the air. And, ultimately, Mr. Sroda abandoned the
pitch because of concern that young TV viewers would start
eating wigglers that hadn't been cleaned properly. He didn't
want to be accused of poisoning anybody.
   Currently, Mr. Sroda turns down most interview requests
that require travel, preferring instead to work on perfecting
a worm feed that will make his wigglers look, taste and smell
better to fish.
   A few months ago, he tried feeding a few crawlers volcanic
ash that a fan had sent from Washington's Mount St. Helens,
but it didn't seem to have any effect.
   The same was true for dry cement, which a friend suggested
is high in minerals. "I killed them," laments the Worm Czar.
"All they were were sinkers when I got through."