Heard on the Street:
   If Any Stock Can Be Said to Have Silver Lining
   This Mexican Mining Concern Could Just Be It
   ----
   By John R. Dorfman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
That's because Penoles's stock price rises and falls with
the price of silver. Silver spiked up to $50.35 an ounce in
1980 but has trended downward for a decade, hitting an
18-year low of $3.51 a year ago. Lately, the price has
hovered around $4 an ounce.
   Should silver make a comeback, Penoles is an interesting
way for investors to play the rebound. Not only is the
company a giant in the industry, but its stock is extremely
cheap, selling for only about 60% of book value (assets minus
liabilities per share). The company is considered well run,
has lots of cash, and no long-term debt.
   Steve Kibbey, a money manager at Centurion Trust in La
Jolla, Calif., owns Penoles personally and in managed
accounts. For the moment, says Mr. Kibbey, silver is "still
locked in a pretty serious bear market. I don't think it
lasts forever. People have to give up on something before it
comes back."
   People certainly have given up on silver. Yet the
supply-and-demand situation has been slowly improving for at
least two years. Silver's cheap price has spurred its
increased use in photography (about half of U.S. consumption,
much of it for X-rays), jewelry, dinnerware, electronics and
computers. Meanwhile, some mines with high production costs
have been closing down.
   Joseph Rosta, analyst at CPM Group in New York, says
silver use exceeded output by 4.5 million ounces in 1990 and
at least 37 million ounces in 1991. The gap has been filled
by investors selling silver to industrial users. By the
mid-1990s, he predicts, "You're going to see significantly
higher prices."
   James Kneafsey, president of Cambridge Financial
Management, Cambridge, Mass., sees silver's price at roughly
$4.85 an ounce by year end, if the U.S. economy grows at a
2.2% annual clip. "I think some additions to the portfolio. .
. . should occur right about now," he says.
   Penoles trades only in Mexico, so price quotes and
information can be difficult to obtain. U.S. citizens can buy
Class B shares, which closed yesterday at 3,270 pesos apiece
(about $1.06). Many U.S. brokers can handle the trade, at
commissions not much different than for U.S. stocks. Class A
shares, shown in the accompanying chart, can be bought only
by Mexican citizens (see accompanying illustration -- WSJ
March 3, 1992). Both classes are trading at roughly the same
levels as two years ago.
   "It's a very strong company, very well known in Mexico,"
says Jorge Herrera, manager of the Mexico Equity  Income
Fund in New York. "Unfortunately, it's in the wrong industry.
If you look at commodity prices today, they're not that
great." (Penoles mines zinc, lead and gold, in addition to
silver.) Still, Mr. Herrera has about 4% of his fund in
mining companies, and roughly half of that in Penoles.
   "Maybe this is the time to buy, when it's cheap," he says.
"Most of the stocks {in Mexico} were up 110% last year, or
something like that. There are very few bargains out there."
   Luis Maizel, president of LM Capital Management in La
Jolla, says Penoles could be a "buy and hold" choice for
longterm investors. But in the short run, he believes it will
lag behind other Mexican stocks that could get a jolt from
approval of a free trade pact between the U.S. and Mexico. "I
think silver is very inexpensive right now, but it has lost
its perception as a precious metal," says Mr. Maizel. "It's
an industrial metal."
   Not everyone likes Penoles now. Manuel Gonzalez Sordo, who
manages the Emerging Mexico Fund from Mexico City, says he
has only 2% of his portfolio in mining stocks, with no
Penoles shares at all. "They are well diversified, and they
don't have any debt," he says. But the outlook for mining is
"not very good."
   Jorge Mariscal, analyst with Goldman Sachs, goes a step
further, calling the industry situation "pretty bad."
However, he says: "On a valuation basis the company's so
cheap that as a long-term play it's a company to consider."
If the U.S. economy gathers steam, Penoles shares could move
up nicely, he says. But waiting for that to happen "has been
like waiting for Godot."