Thursday's Markets:
   Dow Falls
   As Bonds
   End Flat
   ---
   Investors Await Data
   Proving Turnaround;
   Dollar Finishes Lower
   ----
   By Douglas R. Sease
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Analysts said investors are marking time, awaiting
concrete evidence that the economy is growing. Although such
evidence has been scanty, at best, many investors are
inclined to give the economy the benefit of the doubt.
Earlier this week Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan
said he expects to see signs of an upturn in economic data
within a matter of weeks.
   Those signs weren't present in economic data disclosed
yesterday. Initial claims for state unemployment insurance
rose 7,000 in the week ended Feb. 15 to 459,000, the Labor
Department said. And the National Association of Realtors
said sales of single-family homes in the U.S. fell 1.5% in
January to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 3.2 million.
   Thomas Allen, chief executive officer of Advanced
Investment Management in Pittsburgh, said the Fed's efforts
to stimulate the economy through lower interest rates are
likely to bear fruit in the next few months, allowing stock
prices to rise further from current levels. But he warned
that any economic rebound will almost certainly be
accompanied by rising short-term interest rates as
inflationary pressures mount.
   "The consumer price index is rising at a rate of about
0.3% per month right now," he said. "By the end of the year I
would expect it to be coming in at 0.4% or 0.5% per month."
As a result, he said he expects short-term rates on bank
certificates of deposit to hit 5% or higher later this year
from 3.5% to 4% now.
   Mr. Allen said that with those interest rates rising, the
money flows that have supported the stock market for the past
few months will start to be diverted away to safer
fixed-income investments. While the Dow Jones industrials
could go as high as 3700 this year, he said, investors can't
continue to expect the big returns from stocks that they
realized through much of the 1980s.
   "The compounded annual return for the past 10 years has
been about 17.6%," he said. "But I think that from now on the
best case for the stock market would be 8% to 12% with some
chances of being down 3% to 5% along the way."
   In major market action:
                                                                                                       

   Stock prices were mixed. Volume totaled 215.1 million
shares on the New York Stock Exchange, where 912 issues rose
and 810 fell.
                                                                                                       

   Bond prices slipped a little. The Treasury's benchmark
30-year bond was flat, with a yield of 7.84%.
                                                                                                       

   The dollar fell. In late New York trading, the currency
was quoted at 1.6340 marks and 129.05 yen, compared with
1.6460 marks and 129.15 yen Wednesday.