Credit Markets:
   Treasury's $15 Billion Three-Year Note Auction
   Gets Mixed Reviews Despite Post-Sale Price Rise
   ----
   By Constance Mitchell and Kevin Donovan
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
The sale of the three-year notes was the first part of the
Treasury's $36 billion quarterly refunding of the federal
debt. The Treasury will sell $11 billion of 10-year notes
today and will conclude the auction tomorrow with the sale of
$10 billion of 30-year bonds.
   Late yesterday, the yield on the new three-year notes was
quoted at 5.51%, which meant that the price had inched
higher.
   But dealers didn't appear eager to bid for the securities,
as evidenced in the lackluster bid-to-cover ratio. The ratio,
which measures the number of bids the Treasury receives for
each bid it accepts, is considered a measure of demand. The
Treasury said it received bids totaling $29.43 billion and
accepted $15.02 billion, amounting to a bid-to-cover ratio of
1.96.
   "It was a lousy auction," said James Somers, a bond trader
and president of Somers Asset Management in Radnor, Pa. "Bond
dealers did not bid aggressively for the securities as they
often have in previous auctions. Dealers only purchased what
they needed."
   "The results were a little disappointing," says Astrid
Adolfson, economist at McCarthy, Crisanti  Maffei Inc. The
bid-to-cover ratio was "very much below par."
   Part of the weak coverage ratio can be blamed on the fact
that a record amount of three-year notes was sold this time
around. But traders said it also reflects the uncertainty
about the direction of monetary policy and interest rates
that is afflicting the bond market.
   Jay Goldinger, a trader and partner at Capital Insight
Inc., a brokerage firm in Beverly Hills, Calif., offered one
positive perspective on the note sale. Mr. Goldinger, who
said he was a buyer at the auction, said that yields have
risen so sharply in recent weeks that he considered prices of
the three-year notes relatively attractive.
   At the end of the day, the prices of the three-year notes
posted a small increase. "I like owning them at a yield of
5.54%," said Mr. Goldinger. "The bottom line is that I made
money by buying the notes" at the auction, he said.
   Many market participants had expected the Federal Reserve
to ease credit conditions this week by allowing the federal
funds rate to drift below its current target level of 4%. The
closely watched rate is what banks charge each other for
overnight loans.
   But the open market desk of the Federal Reserve Bank of
New York drained reserves from the banking system yesterday,
signaling for the third trading session in a row that policy
remains unchanged. Expectations of another Fed easing move
had been raised by Friday's release of weak January
employment data.
   Although the Fed has made it plain through its open market
operations that monetary policy is on hold for the time
being, some analysts still predict another easing of policy
soon.
   "I'll be surprised if the Fed doesn't act before Chairman
Greenspan's Humphrey-Hawkins testimony next week," says F.
Ward McCarthy, a managing director at Stone  McCarthy Inc.
Mr. Greenspan will appear before Congress next Wednesday to
deliver the Fed's semiannual report on monetary policy as
required by the Humphrey-Hawkins Act.
   In a speech made by Mr. Greenspan before the Independent
Bankers Association of America conference in San Antonio,
Texas, yesterday, the Fed chairman again said that policy
makers believe enough monetary stimulus is in the pipeline to
get the economy expanding.
                                                                                                       

   Treasury Securities
                                                                                                       

   Prices ended little changed as the government began its
quarterly refinancing of the federal debt.
   The benchmark 30-year bond ended at a price of 102 12/32
to yield 7.78%, compared with 102 10/32 to yield 7.79%. The
when-issued 30-year bond to be sold tomorrow was quoted late
at a yield of 7.79%, unchanged from Monday.
   The existing 10-year note ended at a price of 101 28/32 to
yield 7.21%, compared with 102 1/32 to yield 7.19% Monday.
The when-issued 10-year note to be sold today was quoted late
at 7.23%, up from 7.20% Monday.
   Treasury bill rates ended a little higher. The average
discount rate on three-month bills ended at 3.75% for a
bond-equivalent yield of 3.83%, compared with 3.72% to yield
3.80%.
                                                                                                       

   Rates are determined by the difference between the
purchase price and face value. Thus, higher bidding narrows
the investor's return while lower bidding widens it.
                                                                                                       

                   Three-Year Notes
                                                                                                       

      Applications                 $29,425,195,000
      Accepted bids                $15,016,115,000
      Accepted at low price                    32%
      Accepted noncompetitively       $839,000,000
      Average price (Rate)          99.891 (5.54%)
      High price (Rate)             99.973 (5.51%)
      Low price (Rate)              99.864 (5.55%)
      Interest rate                         5 1/2%
      CUSIP number                       912827E24
                                                                                                       

   The notes are dated Feb. 18, 1992, and mature Feb. 15,
1995.
                                                                                                       

   Corporate  Junk Bonds
                                                                                                       

   Corporate debt sales slowed as investors focused on the
Treasury's $36 billion quarterly refunding.
   The refunding, which started yesterday and runs through
tomorrow, will probably mute activity in the corporate
sector.
   Nevertheless, corporations sold about $275 million of new
debt yesterday, with CIT Group Holdings Inc. bringing the
most interesting offering to market.
   CIT is a New York asset-based lender that is 60%-owned by
Dai-Ichi Kangyo Bank Ltd. of Japan and 40%-owned by Chemical
Banking Corp.
   In an unusually structured transaction, CIT managed to
lock in long-term financing at commercial-paper rates. First,
the financial holding company sold $150 million of five-year
fixed-rate amortizing notes priced to yield 6.24%. (Unlike
straight debt, amortizing issues make payments to investors
that are both principal and interest.) Then it entered an
interest rate swap transaction where it exchanged its
fixedrate liabilities for floating-rate payments.
   The two-part transaction was substantially cheaper for the
company than simply selling floating-rate debt, says Joseph
Carroll, chief financial officer at CIT Group.
   "We got liquidity for a five-year period {at the price} we
normally pay for 30-day commercial paper," Mr. Carroll said.
The notes were underwritten by Chase Securities Inc., the
securities arm of Chase Manhattan Corp. It is the first
corporate bond offering on which Chase Securities has been
lead manager since the broker-dealer received expanded
underwriting powers from the Federal Reserve about three
years ago.
   Among gainers were junk bonds of Ralphs Grocery Co. which
climbed on a report that the company is considering a
recapitalization that could result in the grocery-store chain
becoming a publicly held company. It is now controlled by
developer Edward J. DeBartolo Sr. Ralphs Grocery's 14% senior
subordinated debentures, due in 2000, added one point to end
at 109 7/8.
   Meanwhile, junk bonds of Chrysler Corp. rallied strongly
on widespread rumors that the company's convertible preferred
stock deal could be boosted to as much as $1 billion.
   Originally, the struggling auto maker planned to sell $400
million of convertible preferred to private investors.
Neither Chrysler nor lead underwriter First Boston Corp.
would comment.
   Still, Chrysler's bonds rose smartly on the rumors.
Chrysler's Auburn Hills Trust certificates jumped 3 1/4
points to 103 3/4, while the company's 10.40% notes due in
1999 added 2 3/4 to end at 84.
   Chrysler isn't the only auto maker finding investors
lining up to buy its securities.
   General Motors Corp. raised $1.5 billion yesterday through
a huge offering of convertible preference stock. Strong
investor demand prompted underwriters led by Merrill Lynch 
Co. to double the size of the offering shortly before
pricing.
   The company sold 30 million depositary shares, each
representing one-tenth of a share of Series C preference
stock, at $50 a share for a dividend yield of 6.5%.
   The preferred shares are convertible into Class E common
at $71.033 each, for a 23% conversion premium over
yesterday's closing price. GM's Class E shares represent a
dividend interest in the performance of the company's
Electronic Data Systems Corp. computer services unit.
   In trading, prices of investment-grade corporate debt
ended slightly higher. High-risk, high-yield bonds edged 1/8
point higher.
                                                                                                       

   Municipal Bonds
                                                                                                       

   More than $1.2 billion of new issues was fairly well
received by investors.
   The offerings attracted cash-laden investors for a variety
of reasons, dealers said. There was the opportunity to
purchase bonds from infrequent issuers such as the Ohio
Public Facilities Commission and the University of Maryland,
while offerings from issuers such as double-A-rated Onondaga
County, N.Y., offered a chance to purchase high-quality New
York securities, they said.
   Issues outstanding ended mixed as activity focused on the
primary market.
   Among seasoned secondary names, the Florida Board of
Education's 6.70% issues of 2022 finished 1/8 higher at 100
3/8 to yield 6.64%.
   In one of the largest deals priced yesterday, fairly
strong investor interest allowed underwriters at Smith
Barney, Harris Upham  Co. to reprice an offering of $437.5
million of Kentucky's Kenton County Airport Board special
facility revenue bonds to lower some yields by as much as
0.05 percentage point.
   After the repricing, the bonds were priced to yield from
6.75% in 2002 to 7.52% in 2021. The bonds are rated Baa-1 by
Moody's and triple-B by Standard  Poor's.
                                                                                                       

   Mortgage  Asset-Backed Securities
                                                                                                       

   Prices of mortgage securities ended modestly lower.
   In secondary trading, Government National Mortgage
Association 7.5% securities for March delivery were off 3/32
at 97 13/32, Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp. Gold 7.5%
securities were off 5/32 at 96 24/32, and Federal National
Mortgage Association 7.5% securities were off 4/32 at 96
18/32.
   New real estate mortgage investment conduit issuance,
meanwhile, was light compared with Monday's $2.3 billion
total as only one deal, the $300 million Fannie Mae Series
1992-46, was confirmed.
   But at least three more Fannie Mae deals are to be
unveiled soon, with at least one using the agency's 15-year
7.5% collateral, as did yesterday's offering.
   In other new issuance, underwriters led by Lehman Brothers
expect to soon price the first Resolution Trust Corp.
offering backed by commercial mortgages. The thrift bailout
agency has already issued more than $10 billion of securities
backed by mortgages from failed SLs.
   The deal, to be sold through a special-purpose vehicle
called RTC 1992-C1, is expected to total nearly $530 million
and to be supported by subordinated securities and a $130
million reserve fund.