It Was One Thing
   To Offend Oreo,
   Another the Queen
   ---
   Mellon Bank's Latest Gaffe
   Shows Elizabeth in an Ad
   For a $10,000 Game Prize
   ----
   By Gabriella Stern
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Now, a new Mellon ad for a "Phone In  Win $10,000" game
has sent Buckingham Palace into a tizzy. The ad features a
photo of Queen Elizabeth II, her forefinger pointing at
something. "Your forefinger can get you five figures," the ad
proclaims. Different versions of the ad, which began running
in local publications last month, feature photos of former
Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher and former Soviet President
Mikhail Gorbachev pointing their forefingers.
   In the U.K., commercial uses of the queen are simply not
tolerated. "It's not done, at least not by reputable firms,"
says Nick Brown, a spokesman for the British Embassy in
Washington. Offending companies receive tersely worded royal
reprimands, often from the Lord Chamberlain's office at
Buckingham Palace. Although the admonitions don't carry the
force of law, Mr. Brown says they tend to discourage
companies from improperly using the royal family's images.
Foreign companies aren't exempt from the consequences of
British indignation. The British Embassy sent a letter to
Mellon this week requesting the ad be withdrawn.
   What's the big deal? British comics have long made the
queen a butt of ridicule. Consider, for example, the raunchy
irreverence of Monty Python. Mr. Brown objects to the
comparison. "That's different from trying to use the queen or
the royal family for commercial gain," he says, adding a bit
defensively that "we've got a sense of humor. I'd say
probably more than a lot of Americans have. We're not afraid
of being satirical about public figures. A lot of that goes
on in Britain. But this is about whether it's right to use
images of members of the royal family to try to sell a
product."
   A Mellon spokesman says the bank pulled the offending ad
before hearing from the British government. The decision was
made, he says, after several customers complained about the
light-hearted treatment of Queen Elizabeth and Mr. Gorbachev.
No one seemed to mind with Mrs. Thatcher.
   Mellon doesn't view the tiff with Buckingham Palace as yet
another publicity gaffe on Mellon's part. Indeed, it believes
the publicity surrounding the Oreo cookie incident worked to
Mellon's benefit. Mellon eventually redid the ad, that time
with the cream intact.
   The bank staunchly defends the ad agency that created both
offending ads, Werner, Chepelsky  Partners, Pittsburgh.
"What you want to do with advertising is provoke a reaction,"
the Mellon spokesman says.