International:
   Taste of Press Freedom Sours in Russia
   ---
   Needing Money, Papers
   Cozy Up to Government
   ----
   By Adi Ignatius
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
"If you don't want to die," says Mr. Borovik with obvious
discomfort, "you have to get down on your knees and ask the
state to include you in the small circle of publications it
subsidizes."
   Russia's economic chaos has meant catastrophe for the
country's fledgling free press. In the past few years, the
local press has taken advantage of society's new openness and
published, to the delight of readers, astonishing revelations
about once-forbidden topics.
   But journalists and publishers in Moscow say that such
gains are now at risk. The high price and scarcity of
newsprint has forced independent publications to cozy up to
the government for emergency help. That might forestall
bankruptcy, but it will also compromise their ability to be
independent. Many journalists here even believe that Russian
President Boris Yeltsin's government is manipulating the
crisis, aiding those papers it likes, while refusing to help
those it opposes.
   The Yeltsin administration also is under fire for using
strong-arm tactics to intimidate the press. In one celebrated
case, the Ministry of Press and Mass Information issued a
warning last autumn to the Independent, Russia's most
free-wheeling major newspaper. The paper was cited for
publishing an interview with a senior Ukrainian official who
suggested that Russia's leaders might launch a pre-emptive
nuclear strike against Ukraine.
   In a private letter to the paper's editor in chief, Press
Minister Mikhail Poltaranin said the article amounted to "war
propaganda and incitement of ethnic discord," and thereby
violated the country's press law. A second warning, Mr.
Poltaranin indicated, would result in the paper's closure.
   It wasn't the only time the Yeltsin administration has
taken a tough line with the press. After the botched coup in
Moscow last August, Mr. Yeltsin banned several Communist
Party-controlled organs, including the newspaper Pravda, for
several weeks. While liberal forces generally opposed those
publications on ideological grounds, many were appalled that
Mr. Yeltsin, an avowed advocate of a free press, would take
such a step.
   But for most publications, the immediate threat isn't
censorship but financial woes. Insiders estimate that 90% of
Russia's newspapers and magazines are near bankruptcy.
   Alexander Klein, publishing manager of Komsomolskaya
Pravda, says things are so bad that the more papers he sells,
the more money he loses. Victor Linnik, deputy editor in
chief of Pravda, says the only way to survive as an
opposition paper now is by receiving official subsidies.
   In the past, the state subsidized everything from the
price of newsprint to the cost of a paper at the newsstand.
Tenfold price increases have made paper and other raw
materials unaffordable for almost all publications, most of
which are appealing for a return to the ways of the Communist
past, in which the state picked up the check for everything.
   "If this were really a market situation, we could survive
on our own," says Mr. Klein of Komsomolskaya Pravda, the
country's largest paper with a circulation of 13.4 million.
"But the state still maintains monopolies in the making of
paper, printing, distribution and transportation. We don't
have free choices."
   Komsomolskaya Pravda shocked the government into awareness
of the industry's financial problems on Feb. 19 when it
simply didn't publish. Mr. Yeltsin called the editor to ask
what had happened. The answer: Without drastic help, the
paper couldn't afford to keep going. Mr. Yeltsin quickly
issued a decree indicating that the price of newsprint would
be subsidized by the state for certain publications,
including Komsomolskaya Pravda.
   On the other hand, the former Communist Party mouthpiece,
Pravda, isn't likely to get such relief. The newspaper is in
such financial straits -- it has a loss of 300,000 rubles
each issue -- that it may cease publication altogether. The
paper, founded by Lenin 80 years ago, already has cut back to
just three issues a week. In every issue, it makes an appeal
for donations and publishes a list of contributors. If the
paper disappears, Moscow would be deprived of the only major
newspaper that maintains a decidedly socialist orientation.
Pravda has a circulation of 1.5 million, a total higher than
even its own editors had expected after last year's collapse
of communism.
   These days, the papers favored by the state are Rossiya
and Rossiskaya Gazeta, two government organs. Like Pravda in
the old days, these papers receive subsidies, while its
journalists get nice offices and relatively high salaries.
   But state help to other publications will be limited, and
many papers are looking for new ways to survive. Some are
trying to recruit cash from Western foundations and
investors, apparently with little success. Others are trying
to attract more advertising, which currently accounts for
only a small percentage of the industry's revenue.
   Still others are diversifying. Top Secret, for example,
has invested in a horse farm. Every month, when the paper
suffers another big loss, it sells another horse, Mr. Borovik
says.