International:
   Peru's Top Tax Collector Goes Rambo
   ----
   By Thomas Kamm
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
With the Peruvian government desperately in need of money
to beat a deep economic crisis that feeds the growth of the
brutal Shining Path terrorist movement, Mr. Estela has
devised a novel way to get Peruvians to become fiscally
responsible: collect taxes at cannon point.
   "I wanted to do a big operation that sent a signal that
there's a risk in not paying taxes," explains the 44-year-old
Mr. Estela, who heads Sunat, Peru's internal revenue service.
"I want a Peru where the law is respected. And the first
thing Peruvians have to respect is the tax authority."
   Mr. Estela's strong-arm tactics are the most dramatic sign
yet of Latin America's new determination to fight endemic tax
evasion. For years, the prevailing attitude throughout the
region has been that described by an ambassador in Argentina:
"If you said you paid taxes, people wondered what was wrong
with you. Were you dumb, friendless or powerless? Because if
you were smart or had friends in the right places, you didn't
pay."
   Governments didn't really mind; they just printed or
borrowed money when needed. The result was Latin America's
"lost decade" of the 1980s, a morass of hyperinflation,
crushing debts and yawning deficits.
   Now, fiscal discipline is the rule as governments adopt
harsh stabilization plans whose success depends on their
ability to raise revenue. All over Latin America, governments
are renouncing the so-called "inflationary tax" and vowing
not to spend one cent more than they collect. And so, if they
want to meet their countries' gaping social needs,
governments must collect taxes.
   No country is trying harder than Peru, perhaps because
nowhere is the situation so critical. When President Alberto
Fujimori took office in July 1990 and unveiled the austere
"Fujishock," total tax collection amounted to $560 million a
year, less than 4% of Peru's gross domestic product of $15
billion, compared with about 17% a decade ago.
   "People make a big effort to pay the least possible," says
Ricardo Vega Llona, a conservative Senator and businessman
whose colorants company, Sabores Globe, was temporarily shut
down recently for filing tax returns late.
   Enter Mr. Estela, an unlikely taxman. A former seminarian
who still reads the Bible several times a day, Mr. Estela
only turned to economics because he "didn't find all the
answers" in theology. The long-haired, bespectacled Mr.
Estela has been at Sunat's helm since April.
   "I want to make Peru a country where there's social
justice," he says. "We have to eradicate poverty. If we do
this, other problems like drug trafficking and terrorism will
disappear. And the tax system plays a fundamental role in the
fight against poverty. If the state can spend on health,
education and infrastructure, the country can grow. To do
this, the state needs tax revenue."
   And so Mr. Estela has launched a multipronged pursuit of
revenue. "The disorder and chaos here were Kafkaesque," he
says. "The tax authorities had renounced exercizing their
functions. I decided to destroy everything and start from
scratch."
   First, he lifted job security for Sunat's 3,000 employees
and made them take an exam, including an honesty-gauging
psychological test. Only about 900 passed. Then, the new,
lean team's monthly wages were raised to between $400 and
$2,000 a person instead of the approximately $30 some earned
before.
   Finally, Mr. Estela worked out a plan to check tax returns
with a new computer system that cross-checks against four
criteria: new car purchases, property, foreign travel and
yacht ownership.
   "The day I asked {to see} their program to control tax
returns, I had a severe depression," Mr. Estela says. "There
was no program. They always checked the same people, whether
they were relevant or not. In 1990, they did 700 full checks
out of 450,000 tax returns. That's like checking one guy once
every 500 years. And the people checked were always the same
because they had worked out an under-the-table payment scheme
with the guys earning $30 a month."
   Peruvian businessmen felt justified in entering into such
arrangements. "The structure of our tax system is
ridiculous," one says. "It strangles business. A 25% import
duty plus a 16% sales tax justifies delinquency. If you're
importing 1,000 TV sets, it's tempting to pay 10% under the
table. We have to go to something simple and stupid to make
theft avoidable."
   And so, armed with a 36-month plan to rebuild the tax
authority, Mr. Estela got down to business. Enlisting the
support of the army, he launched three major raids like the
one on the market. His aim was to eliminate contraband by
figuring out who supplies goods without paying import duties,
and get the huge number of "informal" street vendors to start
collecting Peru's sales tax and pay taxes themselves.
   At the same time, Mr. Estela launched a drive to get
companies to file their tax returns by temporarily shutting
down laggards. Sunat says it has carried out about 600 such
closures.
   The upshot? In April, tax collection was $160 million. In
November, it was $312 million despite a prolonged recession.
   But it's too early to cry victory, many say. "Our fiscal
deficit is our Achille's heel," admits Finance Minister
Carlos Bolona. "We still haven't done fiscal reform. We have
to base ourselves on fewer taxes. By 1995, tax collection has
to reach 15% of GDP from 8% now. If we don't achieve this, I
can't continue our {free-market} reforms."
   And some old habits have to be overcome too. When Mr.
Estela, the army, some tax inspectors and policemen arrived
at the Mesa Redonda market in their first raid, they knocked
on the warehouse's door. "Who's there?" came a woman's voice.
"The police," they said. "Again]" the voice responded. "We
already paid you off for November." When they insisted, Mr.
Estela recalls, a man's voice said, "Send the chief over for
the payment."
   After the army withdrew, the warehouse was left in the
care of customs and police authorities. As a precaution, Mr.
Estela had a few Sunat people keep an eye on the goings-on.
They soon made a startling discovery. The building's doors
were locked, but a number of owners of the impounded goods
had gotten in through a hole in the back with the help of
policemen and had discreetly removed all proof of tax
violations.
   "I'm learning a lot about Peru," says Mr. Estela.