Caterpillar Inc.
   Ends Lockout
   At Two Plants
   ---
   Company Agrees to Modify
   Proposed Pact to Break
   Deadlock With UAW
   ----
   By Robert L. Rose
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Although the Peoria, Ill., company said the dispute hasn't
yet hurt it financially, the move indicates it fears losing
business as inventories shrink and the economy begins to
recover.
   "They blinked," analyst Eli Lustgarten of PaineWebber Inc.
said of Caterpillar's decision.
   Local UAW officials said the union's central bargaining
committee plans to meet today in the Peoria area to discuss
its response. Union President Owen Bieber and
Secretary-Treasurer Bill Casstevens will be in town as part
of a previously planned visit to rally their members.
   The company had locked out the workers at plants in Aurora
and East Peoria, Ill., Nov. 7 in retaliation for a partial
strike by 2,400 UAW members that began Nov. 4. Since then,
the dispute has led to layoffs of 1,600 production workers.
   With the strike cutting into the pocketbooks of union
members, it would be hard for the UAW to reject the offer to
go back to the bargaining table. Local UAW officials pointed
out that, if the union isn't satisfied with Caterpillar's
latest offer, it could elect to expand the strike to other
plants. The Associated Press reported that the union's
leaders are planning to escalate the strike when the lockout
ends. In a memo to Caterpillar workers, the central
bargaining committee said that, "in all likelihood," it would
elect to strike.
   The UAW isn't likely to back down from its demand for a
"pattern" agreement similar to one it achieved last year at
Deere  Co., the farm and construction-equipment maker.
Caterpillar has been equally adamant that it wouldn't make
such a deal.
   Wayne Zimmerman, Caterpillar vice president, said at a
Peoria news conference that the company is "trying to break
things loose." He declined to say whether the company is
prepared to match the terms of the Deere contract.
   If the company gives in, "Wall Street will view the strike
as a wasted effort by Caterpillar's management," said Steven
Colbert, an analyst at Prudential Securities Inc. in San
Francisco.
   Analysts noted the dispute has enabled Caterpillar to work
off large inventories. At the same time, Caterpillar dealers
said Friday that it's now getting more difficult to get
deliveries of new equipment. "They're running out of
machines," said one dealer.
   Hurt by weak demand and big writeoffs, Caterpillar had a
loss of $404 million, or $4 a share, in 1991, on sales of
$10.18 billion. The company said in announcing those results
last month that the strike had a "negligible" effect on its
performance. But it said the dispute was "seriously clouding"
its outlook for 1992.
   ---
   James P. Miller contributed to this article.