Abreast of the Market:
   How to Play Stock Market's `Rotation' Game
   ----
   By Douglas R. Sease and Robert Steiner
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
Safe to risky.
   Throughout the stock market, investors are scrambling to
shift the stocks in their portfolios from last year's winners
to what they hope will be this year's big gainers. But which
of these big shifts are sound, and which are merely fleeting
fads?
   Last week, for example, the rush to cyclicals was on, as
investors poured money into shares in industries such as
paper, steel and autos whose fortunes rise and fall with the
economy. And cyclicals weren't the only stocks that suddenly
seemed desirable. Shares of badly battered companies --
Citicorp, for example -- enjoyed strong demand from bargain
hunters willing to take on increased risk in exchange for
potentially bigger rewards. All the while, investors
continued flocking to small stocks.
   But rotating between stock groups doesn't always work.
Last summer, investors flocked to cylicals, believing that
the combination of falling interest rates and victory in the
Persian Gulf was going to touch off an economic rebound. But
the budding economic rebound soon faltered, and so did the
prices of cyclical stocks.
   Other shifts, however, have been immensely profitable.
Last year, many investors who had ridden the big growth
stocks to new highs decided to hunt for bargains among small
stocks. And they found them. In 1991, the Nasdaq Composite
Index, a small-stock bellwether, rose an eye-popping 56.8%,
compared with the Dow Jones Industrial Average's 20.3% gain.
   Suresh Bhirud of Bhirud  Associates, a stock market
strategy firm, is willing to bet that the move from stocks
that are very safe to more risky issues is one that can be
sustained. Last week, for example, shares of blue chip J.P.
Morgan, the nation's only triple-A-rated bank, sank to 63 5/8
from 67. At the same time, Citicorp climbed to 14 5/8 from 10
1/2. Mr. Bhirud says this makes a lot of sense. With interest
rates falling, the risks facing some banks and highly
indebted companies have declined substantially, but their
stock prices haven't reflected that, he says.
   Mr. Bhirud also advocates the move from growth stocks to
cyclicals, but cautions investors not to overdo it. "Don't
sell all your growth stocks and buy only cyclicals," he says.
"This still isn't a robust economy, so it's better to have
one foot in the growth area and one foot in the cyclicals."
   Mr. Bhirud recommends that investors with large holdings
of growth stocks sell the priciest of the lot based on the
ratio of a stock's price to its per-share earnings. "There
are a lot of so-called growth stocks at 60 or even 100 times
earnings," he says. "Sell those and redeploy those funds in
some of the bank stocks that haven't yet had a good move."
   And be careful about moving too quickly into the most
cyclical of cyclical stocks, he adds. "I'd prefer to buy
cyclical stocks that benefit from both capital spending
increases and export sales," he says, naming General
Electric, Fluor and Caterpillar as potential picks. He is
avoiding such basic industries as aluminum, steel and paper.
"They'll have their trading moves, but their fundamentals
have a long way to go before they become attractive," he
says.
   As for the rush to small stocks, stay clear, advises Mr.
Bhirud.
   "It looks like it's getting overdone," he says. "Prices
could still go higher, but I think it's more a fad than a
reality. When the music stops, the lack of liquidity in that
market will punish you badly."
   Not so, argue many other analysts, who think small stocks
are on a long-term roll.
   "This isn't fad investing," says David McHugh, a senior
investment counselor at Northern Trust in Chicago. "I would
say that buying Alcoa here because you believe cyclicals will
do OK may be fad investing."
   Mr. McHugh contends that small companies are better bets
than big cyclicals such as Aluminum Co. of America or GE --
both of which Northern Trust has been selling for a year now.
That's because small firms will be able to profit just as
much from an economic recovery as larger companies, but are
often less burdened by debt.
   More importantly, he adds, small companies will have more
room to grow in the next two or three years than big
companies. And small stocks aren't any more expensive than
the broad stock market. With that in mind, Northern Trust
already has sold holdings of big companies such as Minnesota
Mining  Manufacturing and Waste Management to grab shares of
such smaller companies as Federal Signal, an emergency
equipment manufacturer; Jacobs Engineering, an engineering
and construction concern, and Pall Corp., a maker of filters.
   Kenneth Spence, an independent technical analyst, agrees
that the move to small stocks is firmly in place and likely
to continue through 1992. "The whole story behind these
stocks is earnings potential," he says. "When you look at the
earnings possibilities in 1992, some of these companies'
{earnings} will be up 100 times or more."
   Citing estimates by the Institutional Brokers Estimate
Service, Mr. Spence says earnings for some 2,300 small
companies are expected to rise 110% this year, while earnings
for larger companies with revenue between $500 million and $2
billion are expected to be up only 32%. And the earnings gain
for the nation's 200 largest companies is estimated at 23%.
   "With the secondary stocks, you're getting much greater
value and much greater growth potential," he says.
   Mr. Spence also thinks that the shift from growth to
cyclicals is probably a good bet. He points out that other
markets are sending signals that the economy really is headed
toward a rebound. Among the signs: long-term interest rates
are rising, the dollar is rallying, utility stocks are weak
and commodity prices, including precious metals, aluminum,
lumber and copper, are rising.
   "Those other markets are confirming what the stock market
is saying," Mr. Spence says. "That gives you a higher
confidence level that this move is potentially sustainable
compared to what happened last year."
   But Gail Dudack, chief market strategist for S.G. Warburg
in New York, contends that investors' whole-hearted dumping
of growth stocks in favor of a broad range of economically
sensitive cyclicals is unnerving.
   "It doesn't make a lot of sense in the extreme form that
it's taking, with lots of the cyclical stocks getting ahead
of themselves," she says. She notes that investors are
focusing mainly on "deep" cyclicals like Bethlehem Steel,
which are expected to do well only in a convincing and
sustained economic turnaround.
   Rather than betting on a fundamental turn in the economy,
Ms. Dudack warns, many investors right now simply want to
take profits in their growth stocks and then, facing low
yields in other markets, are compelled to put their cash back
into lower-priced cyclical stocks.
   Ms. Dudack suggests that investors consider stocks that
lie between the extremes of growth and deep cyclicality --
like electric utilities.
   "Many utilities have great yields, they're competitive
relative to cash and will benefit from a recovery more than a
General Motors," which will have to grapple with an ailing
U.S. auto industry even after the economy picks up, she says.
   ---
   Friday's Market Activity
                                                                                                       

   Stock prices surged as monthly expirations of futures and
options Friday prompted buy orders in many stocks.
   The Dow Jones Industrial Average jumped 15.43 points to a
record of 3264.98. For the week, the average, which is
heavily weighted in the cyclical stocks that have led the
recent rally, gained 68.21 points, or 2.1%.
   Standard  Poor's 500-stock index added 0.65 to 418.86,
the New York Stock Exchange composite index rose 0.34 to
230.89, and the Dow Jones Equity Market Index added 0.45 to
394.62. Advancers beat decliners on the Big Board, 922 to
831. Volume was 284.6 million shares, down from Thursday's
unusually heavy 333.8 million.
   Airlines, in particular, which have been regarded as a
cyclical play by many investors, nosedived after soaring
earlier in the week. UAL lost 3 1/4 to 155 3/4, AMR fell 2 to
72 1/2 and Delta Air Lines dropped 1 1/8 to 72 5/8.
   International Business Machines gained 7/8 to 96 3/8 in
spite of disappointing fourth-quarter results. The company
told analysts it is optimistic that its first-quarter backlog
of orders for mainframe computers could improve its
performance this year.
   International Paper added 1/4 to 73 even after investors
gobbled up eight million new shares, priced Thursday at
$72.75 each.
   General Electric rose 1 1/2 to 79 1/2, Merck added 2 5/8
to 153 3/4, Minnesota Mining  Manufacturing gained 1 1/2 to
98 1/8, and Du Pont rose 1 1/2 to 50 1/2. Most of the moves
were the result of options and futures expirations.
   Reebok added 1 1/2 to 31 1/2 after reporting earnings in
line with analysts' estimates. The stock had slumped Thursday
on fears of an earnings disappointment.
   Tandy Corp. fell 1 1/4 to 26 5/8. The company said it
expects fiscal second-quarter profit to drop about 20% from a
year ago.
   He-Ro Group rose 2 3/4 to 16 5/8. Oppenheimer  Co. said a
cloud over the maker of women's apparel has lifted now that
trade sanctions against China have been averted.
   Diasonics lost 3 3/4 to 19 5/8. The manufacturer of
medical diagnostic imaging equipment posted a
worse-than-expected fourth-quarter profit of 40 cents a
share.