LEISURE  ARTS -- Theater:
   Old Hats on New Actors in the West End
   ----
   By Edwin Wilson
Shaw fills the play with his ruminations on the
dissolution of English society at the time of World War I.
This is not a well-made play, but there are splendid comic
scenes, each with the stamp of Shaw's inimitable wit. Most of
all, the play gives an extraordinary cast a chance to display
its skills. Mr. Scofield's voice is a pipe organ playing at
full range; Ms. Stubbs is an enchanting young woman on the
threshold of life; Ms. Kendal, an apparently flighty female,
operates with the cunning of a master manipulator; and Ms.
Redgrave, barefoot and wearing a flowing Greek gown, is the
eternal bohemian. Even actors in minor parts have a chance at
star turns.
   Another arresting new production, also directed by Mr.
Nunn, is "Measure for Measure," at the Young Vic Theatre. It
is set in Vienna at the turn of the century, when Sigmund
Freud was practicing there and England was in the grip of
Victorian morality. Mr. Nunn, taking his cue both from the
text and the temper of the times, has stressed the repressed
sexuality of the play.
   Angelo (David Haig), the man put in charge of Vienna while
the Duke (Philip Madoc) is absent, is a straight-laced
bureaucrat. Wearing a high collar and tight suit, he is
buttoned up emotionally as well as physically. When,
therefore, he falls in love with the young novitiate Isabella
(Claire Skinner), his tempestuous descent into desire
unleashes an unbridled passion that frightens even him.
Isabella, cherubic in her innocent appearance, demonstrates
with angry outbursts at Angelo and her brother Claudio (Jason
Durr) that she too has pent-up emotions that could never
withstand the constraints of the cloister.
   The intimate Young Vic Theatre confines the play's
emotional storms in its tight space, increasing the
psychological pressure. Maria Bjornson, who created the
scenery for "The Phantom of the Opera," has provided an ideal
visual world for the complex feelings and dark forces that
swirl about the characters.
   The third recent opening is George Farquhar's "The
Recruiting Officer," mounted at the Olivier Theatre in the
Royal National Theatre complex by Nicholas Hytner, best known
in the U.S. as the director of "Miss Saigon." The play,
written in 1706, has ingredients that audiences of the time
relished and that present-day British audiences still enjoy:
A recruiting officer (Alex Jennings) who has come to a
country town to recruit farmers into the army, a woman (Sally
Dexter) who disguises herself as a soldier to win the
officer, and a mincing, braggart soldier named Brazen
(Desmond Barrit) who fawns over everyone in sight.
   Despite good performances and humorous moments, the play
today seems tepid when compared with other British comedies
on view. One of these is another National Theatre offering
also directed by Mr. Hytner: Alan Bennett's "The Madness of
George III," playing at the Lyttleton Theatre.
   In late 1788, King George III developed symptoms, both
physical and mental, that were taken as signs of insanity,
but that only later, in the 1960s, were correctly diagnosed
as symptoms of a metabolic disorder. In the play, the king's
disturbed behavior sends everyone scurrying: William Pitt
(Julian Wadham), the prime minister who would lose his job if
the king were deposed; the Prince of Wales (Michael
Fitzgerald), an obese fop who cannot wait to get his greedy,
self-indulgent hands on the throne; and a host of doctors and
politicians, all of whom hope to gain from the king's malady.
   The king is a once-in-a-lifetime role for an actor, and
Nigel Hawthorne is spectacular in the part. This, together
with the pageantry orchestrated by Mr. Hytner and some other
first-rate performances, make this an engrossing historical
drama.
   "The Recruiting Officer" and "The Madness of George III"
are vivid testimony to the pre-eminence of the National
Theatre in British theatrical life at the moment, with its
repertory of plays from the present and the past, from
America as well as Britain. One of the U.S. plays, directed
by Richard Eyre, the artistic director of the National, is
"The Night of the Iguana" by Tennessee Williams. In its early
stages the production is a bit untidy, both because of the
play and also because the American accents are executed
unevenly, but in the last half, Eileen Atkins and Alfred
Molina take over with hypnotic force, as Hannah, a spinster
painter traveling with her aged grandfather, and Shannon, a
defrocked priest at the end of his rope.
   In the small Cottesloe Theatre, the National is offering
still another trans-Atlantic import, "Angels in America," a
new play by the U.S. playwright Tony Kushner. A 3 1/2-hour
extravaganza set in the 1960s, it purports to dissect
American society as a whole, but it is, in fact, a play about
AIDS and homosexuality. The action shifts back and forth
among three sets of characters: two male lovers, one of whom
is dying of AIDS, a young Mormon married couple (the husband
is a repressed homosexual), and the political lawyer Roy
Cohn, a homosexual who died of AIDS.
   Mr. Kushner, who has a lively imagination, has written
several amusing segments as well as a number of inventive
fantasy scenes, and he has drawn a devastating portait of
Cohn (expertly played by Henry Goodman). The play has also
been given a fluid, highly charged production by director
Declan Donnellan. Critics on both sides of the Atlantic have
acclaimed "Angels in America" as a profound look at the
recent past and a prophetic view of the future. It is a long
way from being either.
   A new British play, though half as long, reaches much
further. Howard Barker's tough, uncompromising "A Hard Heart"
is playing at the Almeida, London's most successful fringe
theater in recent years. In an unnamed city under siege, the
queen (Angela Down) calls on a genius architect (Anna Massey)
to save the city. In carrying out her mandate, the
implacable, demanding architect sacrifices all the city holds
dear, including the temple, which is the repository of the
city's art, its religion and its history. Especially in the
flinty confrontations between Ms. Massey and Ms. Down, Mr.
Barker raises haunting, provocative questions about survival,
culture and the human spirit.