Business World:
   Tax Truffles: Some Selections From Column G(rowth)
   ----
   By Tim W. Ferguson
Anthony Mozilo could represent both realty and rising
enterprise at this repast. He's CEO of Countrywide Credit
Industries, the nation's hottest mortgage banker, or
middleman in home finance. The American Dream lives on, with
a steady supply of deductible vitamins. Yet, home sales are
weak. Less-favored development has grown emaciated since '86.
   Mr. Mozilo acknowledges some binging went on earlier, but
he pins that on lending institutions ladling cash on builders
in order to book fees while being able to value projects
above market. That didn't merit a rice-and-water regimen from
tax reformers, he says.
   Likewise with investment credits in other industries. "If
we fail to provide incentives, money will find itself in very
few hands," to be stashed by the wealthy in government bonds
that "don't produce anything," he says. The tax code needs
"rewards for taking risks."
   An avowed supply-sider, Mr. Mozilo doesn't want income-tax
rates raised to pay for tax breaks that don't pay for
themselves. Unlike many executives, he offers a compensating
cut in spending beyond the generality of "waste, fraud and
abuse." He zeroes in on Social Security: "Everybody else is
on their rear ends, and these people are getting a 3%
increase. That's nonsense," he says. "People who are working
are {the ones} on fixed incomes. . . ."
   Drive two hours south from Mr. Mozilo's Los Angeles-area
headquarters and you'll find Tony DeSio of much the same mind
at his San Diego-based Mail Boxes Etc., the expanding
franchiser of postal and telefax services. This CEO says the
1986 tax changes were "a disaster" that "reduced investment
in plant and equipment by hundreds of billions of dollars."
   Further, he complains, once lawmakers tapped out revenues,
they began shifting social obligations to employers to hide
the cost. In his view, "We just have a Congress that is
anti-business."
   Mr. DeSio says he's "not necessarily in favor of targeted
tax breaks" but "one has to look at stimulating the economy
and creating jobs, at least on a temporary basis." And while
you're at it, he urges, boost families, index capital gains
to inflation, cut Social Security payroll taxes and . . . oh,
never mind, he realizes. The sitting Congress won't do much
anyway.
   Getting that roster of relief will take a two-term limit
on the members, Mr. DeSio argues. During their latter term,
he says, the congressmen might actually be willing to cut
spending.
   Our next stop is at Seagate Technology, near Silicon
Valley. There the CEO, Alan Shugart, jokes, "Any tax changes
we've made in my lifetime have been bad," which includes
1986, of course, and in fact goes back to Andrew Mellon's
days. Sure enough, Mr. Shugart's ideal would be a low flat
rate on income.
   For the here and now, however, his brainstorm is a
five-year capital-gains rate ranging from 100% to zero,
depending on the duration of the holding. He wants to get rid
of short-term stock trading, and to prevent a cap-gains
exclusion from "just letting the rich get richer."
   That kind of delayed reward is the best way to get
companies to think long term, says this executive of a
computer diskdrive maker. Otherwise, investors will keep
demanding immediate returns and management will try to oblige
them. (Presumably, pension funds wouldn't override the wishes
of other, taxed holders who wanted to wait for their just
deserts.)
   Although he thinks "serious" spending reductions should be
part of a fiscal package, Mr. Shugart doesn't volunteer any
ideas. "That's why I hire these representatives," he quips in
passing the buck to Congress. A line-item veto would help
focus their attention, he says.
   Across the country in Connecticut, CEO Leon Hirsch of U.S.
Surgical calls capital-gains taxation the crux disincentive
to business expansion. Stimulants being suggested by the
White House, for the most part, amount to "eyewash."
   Mr. Hirsch rattles off the lower cap-gains rates in
competing nations and frames the issue effectively: "That
means that an American worker . . . is at a distinct
disadvantage because he hasn't got the people backing him up
with investments that the Frenchmen or the Japanese have."
His line: "The capital-gains deduction isn't a benefit for
the rich, it's a workingman's benefit."
   Although he says U.S. Surgical's innovative devices are
selling so well that it hasn't needed tax breaks, Mr. Hirsch
thinks an investment tax credit that "applies to a guy who
has a one-man machine shop on the street and to General
Motors, and to everybody in between" would stimulate
harder-pressed employers.
   And, he insists that the RD tax credit has wrongheadedly
been nullified. Other CEOs made the same contention. An
allowance is still in the law, but it applies only to
incremental amounts of research expenditure. Lou Mezzo of the
accounting firm Grant Thornton attributes disuse to a
scarcity of corporate working cash with which to make the
qualifying investments. (I tried three times last week to
reach the Treasury Department's RD specialist to find out
just how out of favor this credit has become, but she must
have been busy advising her illustrious bosses.)
   Down in Irving, Texas, is one growth-company CEO who is
content to "leave {the tax code} alone." He's Sam Wyly of
Michaels Stores, a prosperous retailer of arts-and-crafts
supplies and other inexpensive ways to dress up interiors.
   With the economy coming back already, he says, tax cuts
might revive inflation fears by increasing the deficit. He
sees any "start-and-stop" change as most hurtful. Getting
marginal rates down and eliminating loopholes, he says, were
good ideas back in 1986 (he, too, likes a flat tax) but the
overall revision was a disappointment: "It started out good
when they said they were going to simplify it, and it ended
up bad when they made it more complex."
   Now it looks as if we're headed for some new tinkering,
though unlikely anything important. Mr. Bush's fiscal
policies at this stage are driven by polls -- rather more
scientific ones than this survey of CEOs. We can expect a
little something for everyone in the State of the Union. That
won't do much to restore robust growth.
   One seeming advantage of U.S. industry, despite its tax
and other troubles, is a relative freedom to fire. But
layoffs exact an economic as well as human toll. In this
recession, mass realization that an employee's past toil need
count for little is magnifying anxiety. Restoring "consumer
confidence," therefore, will require fundamental attention to
jobs availability. The opinions of those likely to be doing
the hiring are worth chewing on in Washington.