SLM Sees Fourth-Quarter Turnaround
   With Profit of Up to 22 Cents a Share
   ----
   By Lourdes Lee Valeriano
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
SLM went public late November, selling four million
shares, including overallotments, for $10.50 each. Since
then, the stock has been climbing, advancing about 30% last
month, and currently trades near $19.
   For the full year, Mr. Takefman and Howard Zunenshine, the
co-chief executive officer in charge of the sporting goods
business, predict profit of about $6.5 million, or between 89
cents to 92 cents a share. For 1990, the company had a loss
of $3.2 million, or 50 cents a share.
   Sales, meanwhile, are expected to show a 25% increae, to
$45 million for the fourth quarter, and to $165 million for
the year.
   The company traces its beginnings to sporting goods
companies acquired by the Zunenshine family of Montreal,
Canada, starting in 1976. In 1981, toy companies were added
to the collection. SLM was created as the holding company
when the company went public. The Zunenshines still hold 58%
of the 10.5 million common shares outstanding. Including Mr.
Takefman's stake, the family and top management own 65%. No
insiders sold shares during the offering.
   Among the diversified goods that SLM makes and markets are
plastic toy vehicles, ride-on vehicles, seasonal toys such as
sleds and plastic pools, skates, hockey equipment and sports
apparel. Many are marketed under licenses for well-known
trademarks and names such as Mickey Mouse, Sesame Street,
Reebok and the National Hockey League. Toys account for about
60% of sales and sporting goods the rest.
   The company, which pursues a strategy of buying and
turning around troubled companies with recognized products,
attributed the 1990 losses to problems with the toy business
they purchased from now defunct Coleco Industries Inc. in
1988 and their acquisition of Buddy L Corp., a longtime maker
of steel toy vehicles, in 1990. "It took us a couple of years
to turn the two financially troubled companies around," said
Mr. Takefman. But he said that in 1991 all operations were
"profitable on an independent basis."
   SLM used proceeds from the offering to pay down long-term
debt and revolving credit facilities, with about $11 million
going to long-term debt, now at $17 million. The company used
$27 million to reduce short-term debt, which in the third
quarter was at a cyclical high of $74.3 million.
   Interest expense for 1992 is expected to be less than 2.5%
of sales, down from 5% in 1991.
   The 1991 and fourth-quarter earnings projections are in
line with the estimate by Gary Jacobson, an analyst with
Kidder Peabody  Co., the lead underwriter of the offering.
Mr. Jacobson initiated Wall Street coverage of the company
Friday with a buy recommendation. He expects the company's
1991 earnings per share to reach 90 cents. Mr. Jacobson said
he expects per-share earnings to jump to $1.35 a share this
year and $1.70 a share in 1993. "They have several exciting
new products," he said, adding that SLM isn't dependent on
any one product line.
   Messrs. Takefman and Zunenshine wouldn't give sales or
earnings projections for 1992, saying only that the company's
sales have grown at a compounded annual rate of 40% over the
past five years.
   SLM expects to spend about $5 million this year for
product development in the toy business, and $1 million for
the sporting goods business. Messrs. Takefman and Zuneshine
said they have no acquisition plans right now although they
are always on the lookout for companies that meet their
criteria. SLM must understand the business, manufacturing
process and have existing channels of distribution for the
products of the acquisition target, they said.