Inside Track --
   Tip For Insiders:
   A Deadline Missed
   Puts You in Print
   ----
   By Alexandra Peers
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
To put teeth in the rules, the SEC has ordered that if
executives miss the approaching deadline, their companies
must list the names of all tardy executives in the company's
proxy, or face a hefty fine. And some insider-trading experts
say that, at the slow pace corporate insiders are complying
with the little-known new rules, it looks like there will be
a lot of these embarrassing disclosures.
   Stock option grants to executives often allow them to buy
stock at below-market prices and sell it soon after at a big
profit. SEC filings disclosing these grants -- or an
executive's failure to make those filings -- will be
particularly scrutinized this year because of the growing
controversy over lavish executive pay at some companies.
   "Corporate gadflys are going to have a field day with
this," predicts Jesse M. Brill, a securities lawyer and
editor of the Corporate Executive newsletter. Stockholders
"upset about executive compensation may try to read something
into these failures to file."
   Mr. Brill says the Feb. 14 deadline is likely to be
ignored by some of the estimated 10,000 companies that are
covered by the new filing rules. "It's the very first year,
and a lot of companies don't have their acts together yet,"
Mr. Brill says. "Several hundred companies," he predicts,
particularly smaller companies whose shares trade in the
over-the-counter market, don't have the mechanisms set up to
gather this data from their insiders.
   Most companies and individuals seem to be waiting until
the last minute to file information about stock options
grants. "We're expecting to see a big explosion soon," said
Robert Gabele, president of Invest/Net, a North Miami, Fla.,
company that compiles insider-trading data.
   The filings are required because of new insider-trading
regulations that went into effect in May. To cut paperwork,
the SEC exempted many corporate insiders from filing their
trades in company stock every month, and reduced the filing
requirements for thousands of other executives.
   For executives who still must report trades to the SEC,
sales and purchases of company stock must be filed by the
10th of the month following the trade.
   But all stock option grants, gifts or inheritances of
company stock, or trades in pension plans and 401(k) plans,
can now be filed just once a year, either by the company or
the insider on a "Form 5." It's these filings that now must
be made by Feb. 14 for insiders at all public companies whose
fiscal years end Dec. 31.
   For years, corporate insiders have routinely flouted SEC
filing deadlines -- the delinquency rate in recent years has
run at about 37%. So the agency added some bite to the new
rules, says William McLucas, the SEC's director of
enforcement. Companies are required to disclose in their
proxy statement and their annual 10-K financial report the
name of every officer, director and owner of more than 10% of
the company's stock who didn't meet the Feb. 14 filing
deadline. And hefty fines could be levied against companies
which show a pattern of failure to file.
   The SEC now has the power to go to federal court to
request that insiders be fined a minimum of $5,000 for each
violation of the filing deadline, $50,000 for "reckless
disregard" of the law, and $100,000 if there has been "actual
harm to the investment public and to the markets," says Mr.
McLucas. Timeliness of the filings is important because
insider-trading data is "material" to investors when they
decide "whether to buy or sell a stock," Mr. McLucas says.
   Some of the Form 5 filings the SEC has already received
are riddled with errors, says Invest/Net's Mr. Gabele. "Too
many people are reporting transactions they already reported
earlier in the year," he says. That means insider filings may
appear to overstate insider buying and selling at companies.