What's News --
   World-Wide
Hundreds of Muslim fundamentalists marched through the
eastern city of Constantine, shouting their readiness to die
for the Salvation Front. Most of the party's leaders have
been arrested.
   ---
   YELTSIN'S CRITICS, BACKERS HELD competing demonstrations
in Moscow.
   In concurrent rallies, conservatives massed near Red
Square against the Russian president, while Yeltsin
supporters gathered around the Russian Parliament. The
protests, less than two months after the collapse of the
Soviet Union, followed a speech Saturday by Yeltsin's vice
president, Rutskoi, who accused the government of pursuing
"economic genocide."
   Leaders of the Commonwealth of Independent States
reportedly agreed over the weekend to move toward market
prices and to let Russia repay most Soviet foreign debts.
   ---
   Iraq accused nuclear inspectors of violating diplomatic
immunity by entering the headquarters of an Arab scientific
council in Baghdad on Friday. A U.N. official said the
incident was resolved amicably. Separately, Iraqi officials
denied having a secret arms program and blamed the U.S. for a
Security Council decision to retain sanctions.
   ---
   Attorney General Barr announced he will hire 1,200 new
immigration agents and border patrol officers to curb illegal
entry into the U.S. and speed processing of immigration
applications. The Immigration and Naturalization Service has
been seeking to stop millions of Mexicans and other Latin
Americans from entering the country.
   ---
   Thirty people were killed when a chartered airliner
carrying French tourists to a Club Med resort crashed in
Senegal. Club Med officials in Paris said the plane carried
50 passengers, nearly all of them French, and six crew
members.
   ---
   Congressional Democrats criticized the Bush administration
for what they called efforts to weaken or delay Clean Air Act
regulations, including a permits rule that is a focus of the
White House deregulatory drive.
   ---
   Romania held its first free local elections in more than
half a century amid reports of skirmishes in a northern
village and voter registration irregularities. The elections
for mayors and district council members precede parliamentary
and presidential elections due within three months.
   ---
   An army base was attacked in southern Russia's breakaway
Chechen republic, and 20 people were killed or wounded, the
independent Interfax news agency said. Guardsmen protecting
the infantry regiment exchanged fire with the attackers, who
attempted to seize weapons.
   ---
   A Serb enclave's parliament voted to accept a U.N. peace
plan calling for up to 10,000 peacekeepers to separate
warring factions in Croatia, according to news reports from
the enclave, Krajina. But the president of the region's
self-proclaimed Serb government called the vote a fraud and
said he would resist the deployment.
   ---
   A bomb exploded in an officers' club restaurant in
Istanbul, injuring eight people, according to Turkish
military officials. The incident was the ninth attack on
Turkey's military personnel in the past week.
   ---
   Fifteen South Africans died in political unrest over the
weekend, capping a week of tension between the Inkatha
Freedom Party and the rival African National Congress. The
incidents occurred in the black townships around Johannesburg
and Natal.
   ---
   Israel's Supreme Court began hearing the appeals of seven
Palestinians whose Jan. 2 expulsion orders sparked an outcry.
The court has never overturned an army order expelling a
Palestinian from the occupied territories. After the orders
were issued, Palestinians and Arabs delayed the start of
peace talks in Washington.
   ---
   An opposition rally in Togo drew 50,000 people to a sports
stadium in the capital. The gathering was organized by 12
opposition parties allied in a reformist coalition against
President Eyadema and his army.