Enterprise -- Talking Strategy:
   Businesses That Inflate Bosses' Pay Risk IRS's Wrath
   ----
   By Jeffrey A. Tannenbaum
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Getting challenged can cost a company and its owners a
pile of money -- and years of legal fights. Consider the
court ruling last June in a long-running dispute involving
Chicago Stadium Corp., the manager of the arena used by the
Chicago Blackhawks hockey team and the Chicago Bulls
basketball team. The company had paid $335,750 to the late
Arthur Wirtz, then its chairman and chief executive officer,
for the year ended July 31, 1977. But the Internal Revenue
Service, after an audit, recognized only $138,000 as
reasonable compensation, disallowing deductions for the rest.
   The company paid the resulting tax, but sued for a refund
in Chicago federal court. In upholding the IRS, Judge Milton
I. Shadur cited, among other things, expert testimony that
even the $138,000 allowed by the IRS for fiscal 1977 was
"considerably above the standard in the industry" for
managers of comparable arenas. Yet Mr. Wirtz "did not devote
anything even remotely approaching his full time" to the
company's affairs, the judge added.
   Moreover, much of Mr. Wirtz's pay consisted of what the
company called commissions for arranging the Bulls' stadium
lease. But Mr. Wirtz also controlled the Bulls. Judge Shadur
said this pay for Mr. Wirtz didn't reflect the quality or
quantity of his services to the stadium company. In
conclusion, Judge Shadur said the $138,000 allowed by the IRS
as a deduction "was a far more than sufficient amount" to
compensate the executive.
   This wasn't an isolated case. Allegedly unreasonable
compensation is one of the most frequent disallowances during
tax audits of small companies, says William M. Mercer Inc., a
consulting unit of insurance broker Marsh  McLennan Cos. The
problem arises because small companies' executives are often
also the owners.
   Tax auditors frequently argue that these owners disguise
dividend payments as salary to avoid the so-called double
taxation of dividends from regular corporations. These
companies must pay dividends out of earnings on which
corporate taxes already have been paid; then the dividends
are taxed again, as income to the recipients. But true
executive compensation is a corporate expense that reduces
corporate income; it is taxed only once, as income to the
recipient.
   In such cases, say authorities, no single factor
determines whether pay is reasonable; some court decisions
have cited more than 20 factors, such as the size and
complexity of the business and undercompensation in prior
years. But savvy business owners are aware of the many
factors involved and take preventive steps to avoid scary
sessions with tax auditors.
   Mercer suggests these measures:
   -- Keeping data on an executive's pay and company
performance vs. industry averages. "High performance
justifies higher compensation," Mercer says.
   -- Documenting carefully the rationale for each element of
the executive's pay package, and the amount of work that the
executive performs.
   -- Minimizing suspicious-looking items, such as use of
yachts or planes.
   "When an IRS auditor disallows compensation-expense
deductions, the company has the burden of proving that
compensation is actually reasonable," says David W. Jones, a
consultant in Mercer's Atlanta office. "If a company cannot
do so, it can owe substantial back taxes, interest and
possible penalties."
   According to Mercer, many small companies can avoid double
taxation by reorganizing under Subchapter S of the federal
Tax Code. This enables them to be taxed much like
partnerships and avoid corporate taxes. But Subchapter-S
status isn't for everybody, partly because shareholders can't
number more than 35. And even owners of Subchapter-S
corporations may run afoul of state tax codes if their
executive compensation is considered too high.
   That happened to Zalman C. Bernstein, the financier who
heads Sanford C. Bernstein  Co., a New York money-management
company. As a Subchapter-S corporation, the company legally
avoids double taxation of dividends. Still, New York state
tax authorities challenged a portion of Mr. Bernstein's
compensation in 1984 and 1985 as unreasonable. At the time,
the state taxed so-called personal-service income at lower
rates than other income. The state stood to gain if it showed
Mr. Bernstein took too much money from the company in
personal-service income.
   But during proceedings before Administrative Law Judge
Frank W. Barrie in New York, the company was prepared to
justify Mr. Bernstein's pay. For instance, it cited figures
showing that his total pay of nearly $17 million for 1985 was
exceeded by the pay for at least 17 other Wall Street
executives, led by Ivan Boesky. In October, Judge Barrie
sided with the firm; he dismissed tax-deficiency notices of
more than $400,000 against Mr. and Mrs. Bernstein.
   So far, three physicians who owned Richlands Medical
Association, a now-defunct hospital-management concern in
Richlands, Va., haven't been so lucky. The IRS challenged
their pay for 1982 and 1983, and U.S. Tax Judge Thomas B.
Wells largely agreed. In part, he said Richlands Medical had
designed a compensation system so as never to have to pay
dividends. The case now is under appeal.
   If they lose the appeal, the physicians -- James McVey,
Emile Khuri and Ernest Moore -- would be out about $2 million
in back taxes, interest and penalties, says their attorney,
R. David Barbe of the firm Moss  Rocovich, in Roanoke, Va.
Mr. Barbe says he always warns small-business clients that
compensation must be reasonably related to their actual work.
   "If the IRS wants to challenge it, you get into subjective
analysis," the attorney warns. "We always tell clients there
is no magic yardstick to utilize that is good in all cases."