Credit Markets:
   Brief Storm,
   Then Rally
   Seen for Bonds
   ----
   By Tom Herman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The Treasury is expected to announce Wednesday that it
plans to sell a record $38 billion or more of notes and bonds
in the government's quarterly financing operation next week.
Investment managers also are worried about the record $399
billion budget deficit proposed last week by President Bush.
And some fear a bidding war may erupt in Congress over how
much to cut taxes, a development that could expand the
bloated deficit even further.
   "As talk of congressional tax-cutting becomes more
intense, it could lead to further upward pressure on interest
rates, at least in the near term," says Thomas J. Steffanci,
fixed-income director at Fidelity Investments in Boston. He
advises investors to stay away from long-term bonds for the
moment.
   But don't wait too long, many investment managers and
economists say.
   They contend that bonds will sparkle once the government's
quarterly refunding is out of the way, mainly because they
expect inflation to remain subdued. Some analysts also say
that the economy is much weaker than generally perceived and
consumer confidence remains low, making a resurgence of
inflation pressures especially unlikely. And they argue that
investors' worst fears about what Washington might do during
this election year already have been factored into bond
prices and interest rates.
   "Too many people automatically equate economic recovery
with inflation," says Stuart G. Hoffman, senior vice
president at PNC Financial Corp in Pittsburgh. "I'm saying
this kneejerk reaction is wrong. It isn't even in accordance
with history, especially when you have an anemic economic
recovery.
   Mr. Hoffman says that "low inflation and, at best, a slow
economic recovery argue for lower bond yields over the next
six months." For example, he predicts that long-term Treasury
bond yields, now 7.75%, will drop to as low as 7.25% by
midyear.
   Lawrence N. Leuzzi, a managing director at S.G. Warburg 
Co., argues that last month's bond-market rout "was way
overdone." He attributes the selloff largely to speculation
that the economy has bottomed out, or may possibly even be
recovering. But such an assumption, he says, amounts merely
to "wishful thinking."
   Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan indicated last
week that the central bank probably won't ease credit again
anytime soon. But he also left open the possibility that the
Fed would cut rates again if the economy falters
significantly. The Fed's policy-making committee meets this
week to review strategy.
   Because of Mr. Greenspan's remarks, analysts generally
expect the Fed committee to vote to leave short-term interest
rates unchanged in the short term. But Mr. Leuzzi and several
other analysts think the economy eventually will slump enough
to convince the Fed to cut short-term rates further. Mr.
Leuzzi also expects further declines in long-term bond
yields.
   A survey of 50 bond managers by International Strategy and
Investment Group Inc. showed that a majority still is
bullish, although not as strongly as in recent weeks.
According to the latest weekly survey, 60% of the managers
are bullish while only 6% are bearish, said Nancy Lazar,
ISI's executive vice president. In the previous week, 64%
were bullish and 6% bearish.
   January's stunning bond-price declines, following 1991's
dazzling rally, caught many bond managers by surprise. In
ISI's survey for the Dec. 31 week, 69% of the managers said
they were bullish. By the Jan. 8 survey, that figure had
risen to 72%.
   Prices of 30-year Treasury bonds tumbled 4.1% last month,
the largest one-month setback since August 1990, according to
Ryan Labs Inc., a New York money manager. Long-term Treasury
bonds had a total return, which includes both price changes
and interest income, of minus 3.45% in January, also the
worst performance since August 1990, said Ronald Ryan of Ryan
Labs. "A lot of people don't think bonds can move that
sharply, especially down," Mr. Ryan says.
   The Treasury's press conference Wednesday, where details
of the quarterly refunding will be announced, will draw
intense attention. Treasury officials have said they may cut
the size of the 30-year bond sale. Some analysts say such a
move would be a good idea since the Treasury could sell
shorter-term notes at much lower yields, thus cutting its
borrowing costs.
   Traders will also be focusing intently on Friday's report
from the Labor Department on January employment. Analysts
expect the report to show a small increase in nonfarm payroll
and little or no change in the civilian unemployment rate,
which was 7.1% in December.
   "Ambiguous January employment data probably will
disappoint market participants desperately seeking clues to
the economy's direction," says Brian Jones of Salomon
Brothers Inc. He expects the report to show an increase of
about 60,000 workers on nonfarm payrolls, following a 31,000
increase in December.
   Overall, Mr. Jones predicts, the figures generally will
indicate "a still-stagnant economy." Salomon's Richard Berner
adds that "we are convinced that current bond yields are
attractive relative to prospective inflation." But he also
says that "market participants may require time and evidence
to agree with us" in view of widespread fears of "excessive
{fiscal} policy stimulus" by the government.
   ---
   Friday's Market Activity
                                                                                                       

   Treasury bond prices rose slightly, but still finished the
week at lower levels than the previous week.
   Long-term Treasury bonds gained about 3/8 of a point, or
about $3.75 for each $1,000 face amount, erasing Thursday's
losses. Rates on short-term Treasury bills edged lower.
   Dealers said trading was sluggish, partly reflecting
nervousness about what the Treasury will announce at its
press conference Wednesday when officials divulge details of
the government's quarterly financing.
   The Treasury's borrowing package is expected to consist of
three-year notes, 10-year notes and 30-year bonds, to be sold
in three separate auctions next week. But traders don't know
how large each auction will be. The Treasury may reduce the
size of the 30-year bond sale and issue more shorter-term
securities instead.
   U.S. Budget Director Richard Darman told the Senate Budget
Committee that the Bush administration supports a "prudent
and modest shift" in the government's use of long-term bonds.
He said there would be no "radical" change in the Treasury's
use of long-term bonds.
   The Treasury's two-year notes gained 5/32 point to 99
18/32, to yield 5.09%. The 30-year bonds rose 13/32 point to
102 24/32 to yield 7.75%. One week earlier, the 30-year bonds
were trading at 103 10/32 to yield 7.71%. And at the end of
last year, the bonds were trading at 107 4/32 to yield 7.39%,
the lowest yield on an active 30-year Treasury bond since
Jan. 15, 1987.
   In the corporate arena, junk bonds of Trans World Airlines
gained after the airline moved to file for reorganization
under Chapter 11 of the federal Bankruptcy Code.
   The move followed months of negotiations between the
company and its secured and unsecured bondholders. TWA said
the reorganization plan, which has the support of the
company's major creditors, contemplates eliminating about $1
billion of debt from its balance sheet.
   After announcement of the plan, the company's 12% junior
subordinated debentures, maturing in 2008, rose two points to
13 in active trading. Traders said the bonds gained because
now that the company has filed for reorganization, much of
the uncertainty investors had in valuing the securities is
gone.
   Meanwhile, in the broader high-yield market, most junk
bonds, or speculative-grade bonds with low credit ratings or
no credit ratings at all, ended little changed. High-grade
bonds finished slightly higher.
   Municipal bonds ended steady to 1/4 point lower. Mortgage
securities rose as much as 11/32 point, as demand for real
estate mortgage investment conduit collateral continued to
buoy the market. Spreads of mortgage securities yields above
Treasurys yields have narrowed by an average of 0.10
percentage point from their midweek highs, as underwriters
continue to snap up mortgage securities to back the flood of
Remic deals being priced, according to Dow Jones Capital
Markets Report.
   More than $7 billion of Remic securities were rushed to
market last week, raising the three-week total to the brink
of $20 billion.