Politics  Policy:
   U.S. Jewish Groups, Fearful of a Backlash, Adopt
   Low-Key Approach on Israeli Loan Guarantees
   ----
   By Robert S. Greenberger
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
So instead of trying to press Congress to steamroll
administration opposition, the groups are adopting a low-key
approach, publicly backing negotiations between the
administration and Israel while privately advising the
Israelis that they will have to agree to significant
concessions.
   "The issue is no longer the American Jewish community
coming to Congress or the president and saying this is
something about which there can be no compromise, no
conditions, no other approach," says Robert Lifton, president
of the American Jewish Congress, which has criticized Israeli
settlement policies. "The feeling is that negotiations should
take place between Israel and the U.S."
   Adds Abraham Foxman, national director of the
Anti-Defamation League of B'nai B'rith: "The tactics of the
day do not call for public advocacy."
   The new tactic was discussed at a strategy meeting of
major U.S. Jewish groups in New York last month. "It was
unanimous that in this climate, if the president opposes this
{loan guarantee}, it isn't going to pass," says one person
familiar with the meeting. "It's futile to go against that."
   The U.S. Jewish groups haven't abandoned their commitment
to seeing Israel get the guarantees, and the issue remains
one of deep emotional importance among both Israelis and U.S.
Jews. Officials of the U.S. organizations say they are
continuing what they call an "informational" campaign on
Capitol Hill to explain Israel's needs and the technical
details of how the guarantees would work.
   But this low-key approach stands in marked contrast to the
situation last September when the loan guarantees first came
up. Despite President Bush's contention that approving the
guarantees at that point would harm the chances for Mideast
peace, Israel's supporters brought thousands of loyalists to
Washington to push for the guarantees immediately, and with
no conditions concerning Israeli settlement policies
attached. In Congress, lawmakers competed to make speeches
supporting the humanitarian aid.
   Mr. Bush, though, won a 120-day delay in the consideration
of the guarantees -- and since then, the public mood has
shifted markedly in his favor. Last week, when Sen. Patrick
Leahy said the guarantees wouldn't pass without strings
attached, none of Israel's friends in the Senate stood up to
rebut him.
   The issue returned to the front burner last week when
Israel's ambassador to the U.S., Zalman Shoval, met with
Secretary of State James Baker to discuss the guarantees. The
U.S. wants Israel to greatly curtail its settlement-building
activity in the occupied territories won in the 1967 war --
the West Bank, Gaza Strip and Golan Heights -- in exchange
for the guarantees, which would allow Israel to borrow money
from private banks at preferential rates.
   Over the weekend, Israeli Prime Minister Yitzhak Shamir
said he wouldn't agree to a settlements freeze, although he
expressed optimism that terms could be worked out with the
Bush administration.
   The situation marks a stunning setback for Israel: Never
before has a U.S. president successfully attached conditions
to economic aid for the Jewish state. But given widespread
public disapproval of Israel's settlements policy and
opposition to the guarantees -- a recent Wall Street
Journal/NBC News poll shows that U.S. voters oppose them by a
4-1 margin -- Mr. Bush is expected to prevail.
   "The president has the support of the American people on
this issue, and he's playing the leverage he has for all it's
worth," says Republican pollster Linda DiVall.
   But while Mr. Bush holds the strong hand, he isn't
spoiling for a fight either. Partly for domestic political
reasons, he would just as soon avoid a bitter, high-profile
fight with Israel over the loan guarantee issue. At a recent
meeting with Jewish leaders, Brent Scowcroft, the president's
national security adviser, talked about Mr. Bush's concern
over what he sees as a growing isolationist mood sweeping the
country. Left unsaid were the president's problems with
Patrick Buchanan, the conservative commentator who is
challenging him for the GOP nomination on an "America First"
platform.
   Another reason Mr. Bush would prefer to avoid a bruising
fight over the guarantees is that he may need all the help he
can get to push through Congress a foreign aid bill that
addresses some of his other major goals, such as assistance
to the components of the former Soviet Union. In the past,
Israeli assistance was often the locomotive that drove
foreign aid legislation on Capitol Hill. But the nation's
economic problems have made foreign aid even more unpopular
than usual, and Mr. Bush faces an uphill struggle.
   "Even with the loan guarantees, it may be impossible to
get a foreign aid bill through Congress," Sen. Leahy, the
Vermont Democrat who heads the Appropriations subcomittee on
foreign operations, said last week on the floor of the
Senate. "But without the guarantees, I do not see how a
foreign aid bill can get through both houses."
   Complicating the issue are recent developments in Israeli
politics: Prime Minister Shamir has lost his parliamentary
majority and has become even more hard-line on the
settlements issue. Last week, Mr. Shamir, defying President
Bush, vowed that settlements expansion "will continue, and no
power in the world will prevent this construction."
   That attitude is driving a wedge not only between Israel
and the administration but also between Israel and some
pro-Israel groups in the U.S. "There is disagreement with the
notion that settlements are so important that you have to
endanger loan guarantees in order to get settlements," says
Mr. Lifton of the American Jewish Congress.
   James Reichley, a political scientist at the Brookings
Institution, says the political dynamics of aid to Israel are
unlike those of earlier years. In a presidential election
year, "it usually becomes a bidding war among Democratic
candidates to see who can go highest in expressing support
for Israel," he says. While some of the traditional factors
still exist, he says, "the liabilities are stronger now than
they have been in most recent campaigns."