Monetary:
   Dollar Slips Closer to Support Levels
   But Fails to Break Out of Recent Range
   ----
   By Charlene Lee
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
In early trading Friday in Tokyo, the dollar was at 129.32
yen, down a bit from 129.35 yen at Thursday's Tokyo close.
The U.S. currency also was trading at 1.6379 marks, down from
1.6472 marks Thursday.
   Observers said heavy profit-taking on dollar holdings
Wednesday took the dollar into a lower trading range of
1.6350-1.6450 marks and 129.00-129.50 yen, where it was
lodged for most of the session.
   "There's just a total lack of direction for people right
now," said Sheldon Matlow, vice president and
foreign-exchange dealer in New York for Standard Chartered
Bank PLC. "Nobody's convinced it's going up and nobody's
convinced it's going down," he said in assessing sentiment on
the dollar.
   The U.S. currency hit intraday lows at 1.6335 marks and
128.94 yen and session highs at 1.6490 marks and 129.57 yen.
But when no momentum emerged at those levels to set a trend
in either direction, dealers said, the dollar proceeded to
drift within a range.
   "The market's getting kind of crazy. We're not getting any
follow-through in either direction," said Marc Chandler,
senior market strategist in New York for Idea, an analytic
service.
   Mr. Chandler said the dollar got a minor and fleeting
boost beyond the 1.6450 mark resistance level around the
close of European trading. Participants there had to buy back
short, or oversold, dollar positions when it became apparent
that North American players wouldn't be selling the currency
lower.
   The short-covering in Europe helped the dollar rise to its
intraday peaks. Participants in North America spent the
second half of the session moving the dollar around inside
its trading range.
   The currency market failed to find any inspiration in U.S.
jobless claims and home sales data released yesterday.
   Initial claims for state unemployment benefits rose a
seasonally adjusted 7,000 in the week ended Feb. 15, compared
with a revised increase of 19,000 the previous week. Claims
in the earlier week initially were reported to have risen
18,000. For the latest week, analysts surveyed by Dow Jones
Capital Markets Report were expecting on average a decline of
2,000 in jobless claims.
   The market also shrugged off news of a decline in sales of
existing homes and the latest import and export price
indexes.
   Sales of existing single-family homes in the U.S. fell
1.5% in January to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of
3,220,000 units, according to the National Association of
Realtors. Existing home sales rose 2.1% in December to an
adjusted rate of 3,270,000 units.
   The January resale rate was up 12.6% from a year earlier.
   The U.S. import price index, excluding petroleum, rose
0.6% in January after a 0.5% rise in the previous month. The
export price index fell 0.4%; it declined 0.6% in December.
   Traders and analysts weren't certain whether today's
scheduled release of revised U.S. gross domestic product data
for the fourth quarter of 1991 and the Chicago index of the
National Association of Purchasing Managers for February
would provide any direction for currency dealings.
   Kevin Weir, a vice president in New York for Canadian
Imperial Bank of Commerce, said participants may instead wait
until Monday, when the purchasing managers' national index
for February and U.S. personal income data for January will
be released.
   If those indicators show disappointing declines, "we could
see some bailing out" of dollar holdings, he said.
   In the meantime, Mr. Weir said, the currency may see
little beyond range-trading activity, with those holding
dollars waiting for a rise and others reluctant to stake new
positions going into the weekend.