The Americas:
   Costa Rica Winning War Against Drug Influence in Politics
   ----
   By Jaime Daremblum
In this regard, illegal drugs and the vast amount of dirty
cash the drug business accumulates, poses an unprecedented
threat. Costa Rica, the oldest democracy in Latin America,
has shown how a free press and an independent congress can
cleanse the political system of attempts by drug merchants
and money launderers to buy their way into key institutions,
from political parties up to the supreme court.
   In 1986, shortly after Mexican drug baron Rafael Caro
Quintero was captured here, the daily newspaper La Nacion
uncovered the shocking story of how the country was in danger
of becoming a bridge in cocaine trafficking from South
America to the U.S., as well as an active center for the
laundering of proceeds from the narcotics business. Prompted
by this and other stories that followed, congress established
a special bipartisan commission in order to investigate the
scope of corruption and its effect on our political system.
   Since the first congressional report was issued in 1987,
two successive commissions have pursued the issue, based to a
large extent on what the media keep unearthing. The
interaction between the press and congress has been fruitful:
three supreme court justices have been forced to retire; the
general manager of a leading state bank was removed; a
congressman was prevented from becoming president of the
legislature; and various police and government officials were
fired. Most of these individuals did not break the law; they
only committed improprieties, such as accepting gifts or
favors from people under investigation or from foreigners
sought abroad for drug-related crimes.
   Current investigations have revolved around the subject of
campaign contributions. Although the state provides
substantial financial support to the parties, rising costs
and longer periods of campaigning make candidates highly
dependent on private donations, a loose and largely
unregulated area of growing concern. Consequently, as
election day approaches, candidates tend to intensify their
search of economic support -- at home and abroad -- sometimes
without an adequate knowledge of the source.
   The shortcomings and risks of this exposure were
underlined last month, when the bipartisan commission
summoned the former president and Nobel Peace Prize winner,
Oscar Arias. Specifically, the congressional group wanted to
question him about serious charges of impropriety, some of
which were made by former political associates. Up to the eve
of the hearing, Mr. Arias tried to convince the commission
not to call him, alleging it could damage Costa Rica's
prestige. However, since other current and former heads of
state -- including President Rafael Angel Calderon -- had
testified, the proceeding went on (although it was held in a
closed session at Mr. Arias's request).
   Mr. Arias's deposition illustrated both the thoroughness
of the evidence obtained by congress as well as the crucial
input provided by the press. Under intense interrogation, Mr.
Arias acknowledged having solicited and obtained donations
for his campaign (1985-1986) from dubious local and foreign
individuals who, as it turned out, had police records.
Notwithstanding, some even became officials of his electoral
movement and later received government appointments.
   A telling chapter of this story concerned three Cuban
exiles, owners of a shrimp export concern linked by the press
and the authorities to money-laundering activities. In
addition to paying the candidate's expenses in Miami
(including medical bills), the Cubans gave Mr. Arias $20,000,
which he deposited in his personal account. Shown the
canceled check at the hearing, the Nobel laureate said the
money ultimately went to his finance committee. However, his
campaign treasurer told the commission that the committee
never received those funds.
   The former president was also interrogated about his
relationship with Ricardo Alem, a shadowy figure now under
trial in Costa Rica for money laundering. Mr. Alem was a
propaganda manager and a heavy contributor to the Arias
campaign. One witness, a close aide to Mr. Arias, gave the
commission an ample account of the thousands of dollars
provided by Mr. Alem, whose sudden affluence could not be
explained by anyone. Furthermore, the witness recalled, the
then-presidential hopeful attended gatherings in the lavish
home of the Alem family.
   In spite of this worrisome background, once in office Mr.
Arias appointed Mr. Alem as the Costa Rican director of the
Central American Bank of Economic Integration, a function
that carries diplomatic privileges. One year later, Mr.
Alem's alleged activities had bank and drug-enforcement
authorities pushing alarm buttons. Through several accounts
in San Jose, he moved in and out some $40 million over a
short period of time, part of which he allegedly brought
personally to the banks in suitcases. Asked finally to resign
in 1988, shortly thereafter he was arrested in connection
with an attempt to bring crates of cash from Los Angeles
through Costa Rica's international airport.
   The commission was particularly interested in Mr. Arias's
links with former Panamanian strongman Manuel Antonio
Noriega. After watching a video of himself socializing
informally with the general in a luxurious villa in Panama --
also in the company of Luis del Cid, a confessed drug
merchant now jailed in Miami -- a discomfited Mr. Arias
acknowledged that he obtained donations from Mr. Noriega's
coffers.
   Congressional findings will undoubtedly yield a stricter
handling of campaign finances by the parties, and most
probably a law regulating foreign contributions will be
enacted. But more important than any piece of new legislation
is the encouraging reality of the decisive role played by
public opinion, a most treasured democratic bastion of Costa
Rica, in this country's successful efforts against drugs and
corruption. No doubt there is a lesson to be drawn by other
nations. For nurturing the freedom of expression is bound to
strengthen political pluralism and allow the interplay of
institutions to repel the threats to democracy.
   ---
   Mr. Daremblum is a Costa Rican business lawyer and
essayist.
   (See related letter: "Letters to the Editor: Arias Linked
to Drugs? Ludicrous" -- WSJ March 12, 1992)
   920228-0020