Who's News:
   Citicorp Is Expected to Name Ruding
   Of the Netherlands to Senior Position
   ----
   By Fred R. Bleakley and George Anders
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
Mr. Callen yesterday confirmed he was leaving because
"There wasn't a major role for me in the reorganization." He
added that the parting is "totally amicable." A Citicorp
spokeswoman declined to comment.
   The shake-up includes the establishment by Chairman John
Reed of a number of task forces of Citicorp executives to
manage problems and address issues more collegially. "The
idea is to get people outside their own channels to solve
problems in other areas, including the global delivery of
Citicorp services," said one Citicorp executive. Mr. Reed was
said to be discussing details of the reorganization in
one-on-one meetings with Citicorp executives on Saturday.
   The changes appear designed to strengthen Mr. Reed's hand
in carrying out his strategy for cutting expenses, building
capital and returning the bank to strong profitability. With
Mr. Ruding at Mr. Reed's side, there's also likely to be less
speculation that the board would move to replace him with a
more disciplined financial expert. Mr. Reed, 52, took over as
chief executive in 1984 after his gamble on consumer banking
technology turned Citibank into a leader in the field.
   The management reorganization is expected to be announced
as soon as today. The appointment of the 52-year-old Dutchman
as the bank's third vice chairman is likely to be announced
after Citicorp's next board meeting on Jan. 21, according to
several Citicorp executives. As a foreign national, he must
be approved by the Federal Reserve Board to assume a post as
a bank director. That approval, which wasn't required for his
holding company directorship, is still pending, says one
Citicorp executive. Mr. Ruding didn't respond to several
telephone messages left at his home and office.
   Mr. Ruding is expected to be the strong hand that is
needed to institute and monitor stricter lending standards.
He also is seen raising Citicorp's role in financial
transactions emerging from the unification of Europe and
helping to attract foreign capital as Citicorp reaches out to
sell more stock by year end when tougher capital guidelines
take effect.
   Mr. Ruding's expected appointment will raise the number of
Citicorp's inner circle of top executives to five. It
coincides with a shake-up in oversight of the 23,000-member
work force in world-wide corporate financial services, now
divided between Alan MacDonald, 48, and Mr. Callen. Four of
the nine divisions reporting to Mr. Callen are seen reporting
to Mr. Braddock. Others are expected to report to Mr. Ruding
or the other vice chairmen, William Rhodes and Paul Collins.
   Mr. MacDonald, who has been in charge of developing
country corporate finance, is expected to take over
responsibilty for North America corporate lending. Ernst
Brutsche, who oversees Europe under Mr. Callen, is likely to
remain in that slot with more autonomy, said another Citicorp
executive close to the reorganization planning.
   An international banking expert with a Ph.D. in economics,
Mr. Ruding helped slash the Netherlands' budget deficit in
the 1980s, when he was finance minister from 1982 to 1989.
During most of that time he also was chairman of the Interim
Committee of the International Monetary Fund, the central
policy-making committee of the fund, and he also chaired a
number of other prominent multinational development banks.
Earlier he had been a member of the board of managing
directors of the Amsterdam-Rotterdam Bank.
   "Onno was highly regarded as the Interim Committee
chairman and is on a personal speaking basis with everyone
important in the financial community, including the
Japanese," said a former IMF official who worked with Mr.
Ruding at the IMF. Mr. Ruding currently is chairman of the
Netherlands Christian Federation of Employers.
   The Netherlands Christian Federation of Employers is one
of two large organizations representing business interests in
the Netherlands. It lobbies, holds conferences and makes
studies. As its chairman, Mr. Ruding has prodded the
government to reduce its huge debt and budget deficit faster,
partly by reducing the country's generous payments to
disabled workers.
   At Citicorp, bank insiders expect Mr. Ruding to be a
strategic planner and policy-maker who will leave the
day-to-day responsibilities to others. One official close to
the bank said Mr. Ruding will bring a conservative philosophy
to the bank, a sharp contrast to the go-go lending era of the
1980s.
   "The credit culture is going to become much more
conservative," this official said. "Onno is a much more staid
traditional academic type of banker. It's likely that John
Reed would be giving him authority to change credit policy
and get things into shape. No one really had the authority."
   The former IMF official said Mr. Ruding " has a fairly,
hard-nosed approach to finance. He's a tough cookie when it
comes to getting the numbers right."
   From 1985 through mid-1987, Mr. Callen was responsible for
corporate lending in North America. He had reported during
that time to Lawrence Small who resigned as a vice chairman
last summer to become chairman of the Federal National
Mortgage Association. Mr. Callen has had the difficult job of
building morale and inspiring loyalty while wielding a sharp
ax in cutting personnel from 17,000 to 13,000.
   Citicorp watchers in the financial community reacted
positively to the prospect of Mr. Ruding's appointment. "When
you are struggling like Citicorp is, this could be an
important element in restoring credibility," said James
McDermott, president of Keefe, Bruyette  Woods, a bank
research and investment banking firm.
   ---
   Steven Lipin contributed to this article.