Credit Markets:
   Bond Prices End Little Changed in Quiet Session;
   Treasurys Finish Higher in London Trading
   ----
   By Anita Raghavan and Shoba Purushothaman
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
The Treasury's benchmark 30-year bond was quoted late in
London at 104 25/ 32, up 11/32 from late Friday in London to
yield 7.58%. That amounts to a gain of about $3.75 for a bond
with a $1,000 face amount.
   At the shorter end, the Treasurys when-issued two-year and
five-year notes, which saw a big drop in yields during
Friday's rally, were firmer again yesterday. The two-year
note was quoted at a yield of 4.995% compared with 5.01% at
Friday's close in New York. The five-year note ended at
6.345%, down from 6.37% late Friday in New York.
   Although the Treasury market was closed in the U.S.
yesterday, the corporate bond market was open. In corporate
trading, the junk bonds of Burlington Holdings Inc. rose
after the company said it will go public as part of a plan to
retire all of its costly high-yield bonds.
   The move, by Burlington Industries Equity Inc., is part of
a recapitalization plan that will also involve the
refinancing of some bank debt.
   In response to the news, junk bonds of Burlington Holdings
soared. Burlington Industries Equity is the parent company of
Burlington Holdings.
   Burlington Holdings' 14.25% subordinated debentures, due
in 1999, gained three points to end at 104. Meanwhile, the
company's zero-coupon bonds chalked up five points to end at
83.
   In the broader high-yield market, prices of most junk
bonds, or speculative-grade bonds with low credit ratings or
no credit ratings at all, ended little changed in lackluster
trading.
   Activity was also quiet in the investment-grade corporate
debt market, where prices of high-grade bonds barely budged.
Since many investors were absent because of the Martin Luther
King Jr. holiday, sales of new corporate bonds and notes,
which had occurred at a furious pace last week, ground to a
halt.
   As part of its proposed recapitalization, Burlington said
it will sell 57 million common shares at a targeted price
range of $14 to $16 a share.
   Richard Byrne, a junk bond analyst at Merrill Lynch  Co.,
said he thinks the common stock sale is "doable." Burlington,
he notes, has a lot of advantages. Not only does the company
have strong name recognition and hold a good position in many
of its markets, but it has recently enjoyed strong financial
results.
   "The company looks very strong after this transaction
because it will leave them with roughly 50% equity and 50%
debt," said Mr. Byrne.
   At the end of last year, Mr. Byrne said Burlington had an
estimated $800 million of bank debt. In its announcement
yesterday, the company said it has obtained commitments from
Chemical Banking Corp.'s Chemical Bank unit, Bankers Trust
New York Corp.'s Bankers Trust Co. unit, Bank of Nova Scotia
and NationsBank Corp. for $1 billion of a proposed $1.25
billion bank facility for the transaction.
   In the Eurobond market yesterday, the Republic of South
Africa launched its expected bond issue denominated in
European Currency Units, and was forced to offer very high
yields to lure involving investors.
   South Africa tapped the market for ECU 250 million ($339.3
million) of five-year securities via joint lead underwriters
Paribas Capital Markets Ltd. and Swiss Bank Corp. This is the
second time in about six months that South Africa has visited
the European capital markets. Last September it sold bonds
denominated in marks.
   The latest notes were reoffered to investors at par and
yielded 10.375% -- a yield that is almost two points more
than most other five-year ECU bonds available in the market.
   Though investors obtained attractive yields, underwriters
appear the real winners -- walking away with a total of about
$6 million in fees. This is considerably more than the fees
on most five-year ECU bond issues. For instance, Credit Local
de France's ECU 500 million five-year issue sold earlier this
month via Paribas gave underwriters fees in the region of
$1.6 million. SBC lead managed a ECU 250 million five-year
issue for General Electric Capital Corp. last week for about
$800,000 in total fees.
   Underwriters justified the amount by saying South Africa
was a risky credit and that selling its bonds to investors
was "hard work." Underwriters also said the larger-than-usual
degree of risk involved justified the generous pricing of
South Africa's ECU offering. "South Africa was only
interested in a successful deal," and was therefore willing
to pay the price for it, a banker in Europe said.
   In Johannesburg, sources at the South African government
acknowledged that this was an expensive financing, and they
blamed the relatively large size of the issue and South
Africa's newcomer status. The proceeds will contribute toward
financing the national budget, South Africa's Finance
Department said.
   Part of the riskiness surrounding South African debt stems
from the possibility of a new government there. Last year,
the secretary general of the African National Congress, Cyril
Ramaphosa, sent alarm bells ringing when he said the ANC may
not honor any foreign loans made to the current "apartheid
government." ANC Press Secretary Gill Marcus said in
Johannesburg yesterday that it would "reject it {the bond
issue} as we have the others."
   Indeed, the ANC's opposition to a planned offering last
October by the Independent Development Trust, a
non-government organization that supports community projects,
forced embarrassed underwriters JP Morgan  Co. to cancel the
offering.
   Underwriters said they had placed the bulk of their
allocations, and that demand had been strongest from retail
accounts in Europe. There was some demand from high-yield
funds as well, they said.
   Elsewhere, activity was mostly muted. Price of most
Eurobonds rose slightly in line with the underlying
government markets.