GM's Debt Is Downgraded by Moody's;
   Big Three Chiefs Warn Japan on Trade Gap
   ----
   U.S. Executives Will Seek
   Protectionist Measures
   If the Deficit Isn't Cut
   ----
   By Christopher J. Chipello and Clay Chandler
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
"We're the last bastion of free trade," said Chrysler
Chairman Lee Iacocca. "We're the only guys out of step with
the world. Everybody else is managing their trade in some
way."
   Mr. Iacocca, Ford's Harold Poling and GM's Robert Stempel
spoke to reporters on the eve of President Bush's meeting
with Japanese Prime Minister Kiichi Miyazawa. The executives
were invited to join Secretary of Commerce Robert Mosbacher
and other members of the U.S. delegation as part of the White
House's effort to show that the president is promoting
exports abroad -- and thus jobs back home.
   In practical terms, however, there is little chance that
U.S. makers will be able to increase their exports to Japan
fast enough to make a dent in the trade imbalance any time
soon. The Big Three exported only 15,000 cars to Japan in the
first 11 months of 1991. By contrast, Japanese companies
exported 1.8 million cars to the U.S. last year and sold a
total of about 3.8 million, including vehicles produced by
Japanese plants in the U.S.
   And as the Big Three chairmen demanded more access to the
Japanese car market, their underlings in the U.S. conceded
yesterday that they really aren't ready to export many cars
to Japan.
   "There isn't going to be any car-export boom to Japan in
the short run," said Allan D. Gilmour, head of Ford's
world-wide automotive operations, at the North American
International Auto Show.
   The most immediate problem is that Japan is a
right-hand-drive market, and the Big Three build only
left-hand-drive vehicles for the North American market. Ford,
for example, plans to sell a right-hand-drive Ford Probe in
Japan, but not until late 1993. And that car will be
assembled in Michigan by Mazda Motor Corp.
   Chrysler will have a right-hand-drive Jeep Cherokee next
fall. But GM is far behind. "The real question," said Lloyd
Reuss, GM's president, "is when the {Japanese} market will
open up enough to justify tooling up for right-hand-drive
production."
   Since trade in autos and auto parts accounts for about
three-fourths of the bilateral trade imbalance, the only way
to achieve a 20% annual reduction over the next five years,
as the Big Three makers and some U.S. congressmen are
advocating, would appear to be shipping fewer cars to the
U.S. from Japan.
   Despite their claims, the three executives sought to
dispel a widespread impression in Japan that they have come
looking for favors from Tokyo because they can't compete
unassisted. "We're not asking that {the Japanese} give us
anything," said Mr. Stempel. "We're asking to be able to
compete in the marketplace with high quality, high value
products."
   But at the same time, the three sought to play up the
urgency of their plight. Mr. Iacocca said Chrysler will be
out of business if it continues to lose as much money as it
did last year. Asked how GM would cope if conditions don't
improve, Mr. Stempel said, "We're fighting it right now; it's
been a long time without earnings."
   Although Mr. Bush invited the big-three executives to
accompany him to Japan, administration officials insist the
president continues to oppose protectionist measures, and
also opposes efforts to force the Japanese to "voluntarily"
restrain auto exports. But the comments of the three chairmen
could find an audience in Congress, where legislation to
force the Japanese to eliminate their trade imbalance with
the U.S. over five years is gathering support. The
legislation is supported by House Majority Leader Richard
Gephardt and the Michigan congressional delegation.
   Earlier in the evening, officials at Japan's Ministry of
International Trade and Industry unveiled yet another set of
import-promotion measures, including low-interest loans to
companies that increase imports by more than 10% a year. The
package will be part of a joint action plan to be announced
Thursday by the U.S. and Japan. But even MITI officials admit
it isn't clear that the agency's efforts will have much
short-term impact on Japan's resurgent global trade surplus,
which is expected to approach $100 billion this year.
   The Big Three executives were vague as to what steps they
will want from Japan to rate the president's visit a success.
"What we have proposed is a reduction in the bilateral
imbalance of trade with Japan -- period," said Mr. Poling. "I
would leave it up to {the Japanese}. They can import more,
they can export less, they can do whatever they want to."
   The U.S. executives repeatedly suggested that Japanese car
makers play by different rules than other foreign
competitors. They noted that U.S. car sales in Europe rose
sharply in the late 1980s, when the weaker dollar improved
the cost-competitiveness of American-made cars -- while sales
in Japan remained minimal. Meanwhile, Japanese car makers
have steadily expanded production, undercutting rivals'
prices overseas while using their domestic market as a profit
sanctuary, Mr. Iacocca and Mr. Stempel suggested.
   "Japan is targeting the auto industry around the world,"
said Mr. Poling. "They have 14 million units of capacity,"
while the Japanese market, counting cars and trucks, is seven
million units. With the Japanese having agreed to limit their
exports to Western Europe through the end of the century,
"that leaves the most open market in the United States," Mr.
Poling said. "That is not fair."
   Asked why German makers manage to sell about seven times
as many cars here as the Big Three, Mr. Poling replied,
"Because the Japanese consumers prefer the prestige of the
Mercedes and the BMW."
   Mr. Stempel did offer one hint of the kind of measure U.S.
executives may greet as solid progress this week. He said
that Toyota Motor Corp.'s announced willingness to sell GM
cars through Toyota dealers "is important" and said GM's
Japanese distributor is currently discussing possible
arrangements with Toyota. In a similar development, Nissan
Motor Co. announced Tuesday it plans to sell up to 3,000 Ford
minivans and other autos a year in Japan, if consumers are
receptive.
   The executives also said acceptance of U.S. emissions
tests and changes in other standards would help reduce the
costs of their cars here. The Japanese government is expected
to announce measures along those lines this week.
   How Japanese consumers will react to American cars is
another question. "What we're talking about is a great
affirmative action program" for American cars, says Robert
Lawrence, a professor of international trade at Harvard
University's Kennedy school of government. "And we know there
is a backlash against affirmative action when people don't
think the quality is the same."
   Japanese bureaucrats, meanwhile, were scrambling to pull
together the thickest possible package of measures to present
as evidence of their efforts to boost imports. In addition to
announcing the new low-interest loans for importers, to be
offered through the Export-Import Bank of Japan, MITI said 23
Japanese electronics, automobile and machinery companies are
planning to increase by 50% to 100% their imports of
manufactured goods in the next two to three years. If carried
out, the plans would mean a $10 billion increase in imports
in the fiscal year beginning April 1, 1993, compared with the
year that began in April 1990.
   The plans are part of the response to MITI's call last
November for major Japanese corporations to expand imports,
promote local supply purchases by their subsidiaries abroad
and foster alliances with foreign companies. MITI said some
88 corporations and 22 business associations have expressed
their support for the global partnership program so far, with
most of the companies having drawn up "voluntary" plans to
boost imports and enhance international cooperation.
   A major part of the plan involves increased parts
purchases from abroad by Japanese car makers. Car parts now
account for about 25% of the Japanese surplus with the U.S.,
since Japanese auto plants in the U.S. import many components
from their home market. With U.S. officials pushing for even
higher targets than the Japanese makers have so far offered,
Nissan on Tuesday nudged its target higher. Honda Motor Co.
is expected to do the same Wednesday.
   Noboru Hatakeyama, vice minister for international
affairs, acknowledged that government pressure on the private
sector to take such steps would appear to be at odds with the
principles of market economics. But he said that, given the
political controversy associated with Japan's big trade
surpluses, the government felt it should do "everything we
can" to encourage the private sector to take measures that
would blunt moves toward protectionism abroad.
   Mr. Iacocca, for his part, was all for tighter U.S.
government relations with the private sector. "I think this
trip is historic because we've ripped a page out of Japan's
book," he said. "The U.S. government and this industry are
cooperating in deciding what {the industry} has to do."
   And Mr. Iacocca had high praise for Mr. Bush's sudden
eagerness to act as pitchman-in-chief. "This is a great
opportunity," he said. "Every time a Japanese or German head
of state travels, he puts the economic delegation on the
front of the plane. But we've always had the geopolitical
view, and put the State Department and the Defense Department
up there."
   All three executives said the president's willingness to
plead their case had prompted them to join the White House
convoy, despite professional sacrifices. Messrs. Stempel and
Poling noted they've had to miss important board meetings to
come to Tokyo this week; Mr. Iacocca, meanwhile, said he has
had to forgo a Detroit Lions' football game.
   (See related story: "Crucial Top Status of Paper Of Unit
Is Spared; SP Cuts Chrysler's Standing" -- WSJ Jan. 8, 1991)