Foreign Exchange:
   Analysts Predict Dollar Won't Fall Far
   In Near Term, Despite U.S. Weakness
   ----
   By Candace Cumberbatch
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
The prevailing view is that the dollar is currently at
"decent levels" for buying, says Marcos Douer, trading
manager at Commercial Bank of New York. If the dollar does
decline in the next week or so, its losses will probably be
limited, he says.
   Late Friday in New York, the dollar was quoted at 1.5585
marks and 125.30 yen, down from Thursday's closing levels of
1.5770 marks and 125.73 yen, after the surprisingly weak
January U.S. employment data triggered heavy selling.
   In early trading in Tokyo Monday, the dollar was at 125.27
yen, down from 125.52 yen at Friday's close. Meanwhile, the
U.S. currency was trading at 1.5620 marks, down from 1.5820
marks on Friday.
   Non-farm payrolls were down 91,000 last month on big
declines in both service and goods-producing industries. The
civilian unemployment rate held steady at 7.1%, however.
Market expectations were for a non-farm payrolls rise of
about 33,000. Monthly payrolls data tend to have a big impact
on the dollar because they are considered one of the best
gauges of the economy's vigor.
   Despite the weak data and talk that further Federal
Reserve easing will be needed to revive the economy, bullish
dollar sentiment is lingering in the market after the New
Year's rally. The dollar rocketed higher last month, largely
because of chart-related purchases.
   "We have bad news from both Germany and the U.S. Long-term
players want to buy the dollar here," says Nakhle Zeidan, a
trader at Banque Indosuez in New York.
   The latest German economic data have indeed discouraged
the selling of dollars against the mark. Unemployment in
western Germany climbed to 7% in January from 6.5% in
December; in the former East Germany, the jobless rate leaped
to 17% from 11.8%.
   The Bundesbank's stubbornly tight monetary policy is
blamed by many for sapping the strength of the German
economy. Even though the high yields in the German credit
markets are seen as attractive, traders say they are becoming
increasingly wary about buying marks because of a belief that
German economic growth will decelerate even more in the
months ahead-just as the U.S. economy may begin its
long-awaited rebound.
   Because of slower Japanese economic growth, dollar sales
against the yen have also been limited recently. The Canadian
dollar and the Australian dollar are falling against the U.S.
dollar because the weak economies of Canada and Australia
haven't been fully revived by the relaxed monetary policies
of the Bank of Canada and the Reserve Bank of Australia.
   Underlying demand for the U.S. dollar stems from the
belief that "we've seen the worst of the U.S. economy," says
Mr. Douer of Commercial Bank.