REVIEW  OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   China's Desperate Capitalist
The tea leaves spelled out "capitalism" again this week,
in articles in the People's Daily, the official Communist
Party newspaper. The stories, believed to have been
orchestrated by Mr. Deng, indicate that the central
government in Beijing plans to hasten economic reform by
using capitalism "correctly." A page-one article in Sunday's
edition allowed that "making use of capitalism to develop the
economy of China is a beneficial supplement to the socialist
economy." Among those elements of capitalism identified as
"good" are stock markets, contracts and mergers.
   Mr. Deng's newly professed faith in the market won't come
as any surprise to China's coastal provinces, which long ago
learned that capitalism isn't a dirty word. Far from Beijing,
provinces like Guangdong and Fujian have never stopped
experimenting with market reform. The results have been
spectacular. Guangdong, which borders Hong Kong, has one of
the world's fastest-growing economies, with a real growth
rate averaging 12.5% a year throughout the 1980s.
   China's leadership has been badly shaken by the collapse
of communism up north, and Mr. Deng's paeans to capitalism
are in large part born of desperation. By stepping up
economic reform, he hopes to stave off political reform and
retain the Communist Party's control of 1.1 billion Chinese.
It is crucial to note that Mr. Deng has given no indication
that he intends to let up politically. The reality is the
opposite. The dissidents who survived Tiananmen Square remain
in jail, where they were sent after secret trials; some of
them have yet to be tried. Any murmur of dissent continues to
be savagely repressed.
   While we still don't have a general theory of how
totalitarian regimes die, one thing is clear: Once people get
a taste of economic freedom, they want political and social
freedoms, too. Just look at the other China. Taiwan, which
not long ago was a dictatorship with an economy heavily
controlled from the center, is now moving quickly toward both
democracy and a more open economy. Its transformation has
been so successful that Russia, Ukraine and Latvia are eager
to learn from the Taiwan experience.
   Mr. Deng's homilies about capitalism in the service of
socialism sound similar to those professed in another
newspaper Monday. "The idea of socialism lives on. . .," a
pundit wrote. . . . "we can no longer set capitalism and
socialism against each other, as if we were living in the age
of religious wars." The pundit behind these words is the New
York Times's newly announced occasional columnist, one
Mikhail S. Gorbachev. No one knows better than Deng Xiaoping
what happened to him and his country. Someday, perhaps, it
will be China's turn.