Enterprise:
   Money-Laundering Crackdown Snaring Small Firms
   ---
   IRS Reinforcing Rule Requiring
   Reporting of Large Cash Transactions
   ----
   By Eugene Carlson
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Now it is putting the heat on firms to obey the law and
passing out penalties to those that don't. So far, the agency
says, its purpose is primarily "educational," to get the word
out that it expects full compliance with the law. On that
score, it certainly seems to be succeeding.
   "Awareness is up," says Peter Kitzmiller, an attorney with
the National Automobile Dealers Association, a McLean, Va.,
trade group. He says he has counseled seven car dealers who
have been slapped with penalties of more than $150,000 each
for willfully disregarding the filing rules. Mr. Kitzmiller
says he's now swamped with phone calls from NADA members as a
result of the IRS sweep. "There's no question in my mind that
a lot of people were unaware" of the reporting requirements,
he says.
   Bob Maloney, a Ford, Mercury and Lincoln dealer in Rogers,
Ark., was one of them. Mr. Maloney says he paid about $6,000
in penalties after IRS agents found instances of unfiled
forms. "It was more ignorance than anything else. We hadn't
done our homework," Mr. Maloney says. He says his dealership
only gets one or two customers a year who pay in cash, and he
assumes their money is clean. He says the IRS crackdown "has
definitely got our attention."
   In its ongoing investigation, tax officials so far have
looked at the sales records of 5,407 firms, almost all of
them small businesses, that occasionally sell high-priced
items for cash. Buying such goods is a favorite ploy of drug
dealers for turning hot money into assets that are less
easily traced on tax records.
   Whether from fear of losing a sale, ignorance of the law
or simple inertia, 5,773 cash payments totaling $109.2
million went unreported, the IRS found. So far, the agency
has assessed $6 million in civil penalties. Forty-four firms
are being investigated for possible criminal violations. Tax
officials, citing confidentiality of tax records, won't
comment on cases under investigation.
   The IRS insists it hasn't launched a nationwide dragnet,
but is simply trying to encourage greater reporting
compliance by alerting small-business owners and their
employees. "It's not an `I gotcha' situation," says agency
spokesman Wilson Fadely. "We're not going out there and
lowering the boom on business." He says the latest audits
indicate growing compliance. But though the number of filings
more than doubled last year to more than 67,000, officials
say that number is still much too low.
   The rules, which were revised earlier this month, are
focused on the IRS's two-page Form 8300. Retail merchants are
required to submit the form when they receive more than
$10,000 in a lump sum, or in installment payments in one
year, for a consumer durable, a collectible item, or a single
travel or entertainment event.
   Since Feb. 3, merchants are also required to file Form
8300 if a buyer pays a portion of a $10,000-and-up purchase
with cashier's checks, money orders, bank drafts, or
traveler's checks. Banks, post offices and traveler's-check
vendors are already required to file their own government
reports on persons who buy these monetary instruments in
amounts greater than $10,000.
   Purchases paid with personal checks are exempt from Form
8300 coverage. But merchants are required to file if they
detect a "suspicious transaction," no matter what the price.
   In its campaign to spur increased reporting, agents from
nearly all the IRS's 63 districts have paid personal calls on
auto dealers and other luxury-goods retailers.
   In Arkansas, Dennis Jungmeyer, president of the Arkansas
Automobile Dealers Association, says tax officials targeted
some 65 franchised auto dealers. "They found violations in
almost every case," he says. "Most of them were just
oversights." Mr. Jungmeyer says he knows of no auto dealer in
the state who has been accused of deliberately hiding big
transactions.
   In Boston, 24 of the 41 auto dealers visited by IRS agents
late last year had failed to report $1.6 million in large
cash sales. About one-third of 108 small firms investigated
in Maryland had violated the same statute, according to the
IRS.
   While the IRS's goal is better reporting, the agency is
also taking action against money laundering. In March 1990,
Glendale, Wis., auto dealer Harry Kaufman was arrested in an
IRS sting operation when he agreed to sell a 1988 Porsche for
roughly $40,000 in cash to an undercover tax agent posing as
a drug dealer. As part of the fake transaction, Mr. Kaufman
agreed to issue the car's title to a second undercover agent
as a means of disguising what Mr. Kaufman assumed was illegal
cash, according to Assistant U.S. Attorney Mel Johnson.
   Mr. Kaufman, 34 years old, was convicted last March by a
federal court jury in Milwaukee on one count of attempted
money laundering, and acquitted on two other counts that
involved filing the IRS forms. He was sentenced to 46 months
in prison and fined $30,000. Mr. Kaufman's attorney, Franklyn
Gimbel, says the conviction will be appealed when two
additional charges on which the jury deadlocked are resolved.
Mr. Kaufman is selling cars while the legal negotiations
continue.
   "It's a sore subject," says Mr. Kaufman, insisting that he
was filling out the required IRS documents at the very moment
he was arrested. "The IRS has done a very shoddy job in
educating people" on the money-laundering issue, he
complains.
   Mr. Johnson, the federal attorney, says car dealers are a
promising target for government enforcers looking to deter
money laundering by bringing suspects to trial. "I'd say auto
dealers are more subject to general deterrence because . . .
they pay attention to what's going on in their industry, and
because they've got a lot to lose," he says.
   The National Automobile Dealers Association recently sent
a 30-page memo explaining the Form 8300 changes to its 19,000
members. The group has also held seminars in several cities
with IRS agents and government attorneys on the program. Two
other trade groups, the American Society of Travel Agents and
the Marine Retailers Association of America, have sent
newsletter advisories to their members. Phil Keeter,
executive director of the Chicago-based marine retailing
group, says few yacht dealers have been nabbed by the IRS
rules. "We have mostly Ma and Pa operations, and they're
pretty good about complying because they're intimidated by
the IRS," he says.
   The IRS says its campaign is producing results. Michael
Quinn, director of the IRS's Los Angeles district says he was
encouraged to see that nearly three-fourths of the 130 firms
targeted in the latest sweep were in compliance. But in the
same sweep, the IRS found $6.8 million in unreported
big-ticket sales. The agency hit 14 firms with $700,000 in
penalties.