Abreast of the Market:
   What Stocks Will Rise
   As Rebound Arrives?
   ----
   By Robert Steiner and Douglas R. Sease
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
Jack Orben, chairman of Associated Family Services, a New
York investment adviser to wealthy families, is playing the
"modest recovery" he expects this year with growth stocks. He
thinks such companies as Coca-Cola will produce the
consistently improving performance that his risk-averse
clients are seeking.
   Associated Family Services isn't buying stocks of
companies whose fortunes are tied to the economic cycle. "It
isn't because we feel there's never any time at which
cyclical stocks are attractive," Mr. Orben says. "It's that
we don't know precisely when they start being attractive or
stop being attractive. It's much more likely that no matter
what happens to the economy, the management of Coca-Cola is
going to be thinking about competitive problems, image
problems and pricing problems and doing something about
them."
   Mr. Orben knows his views aren't shared by the many other
investors who are eager to jump into cyclicals. But as other
investment managers unload some of their growth stocks, Mr.
Orben is standing by to snap them up. When Dillard Department
Stores was slammed, along with other retailers, in a sell-off
last October, Mr. Orben quickly added to his holdings of the
big retailer.
   Although Jon S. Fossel, chairman of Oppenheimer
Management, also likes retailing stocks, he might have been
selling other big growth issues to Mr. Orben in recent
months. Since last fall, Oppenheimer Management has reduced
exposure to "any companies with a high predictability of
earnings." In their place, he is buying stocks of companies
that make products that other companies buy when they want to
modernize. Corporate modernization expenditures will lead the
recovery, he predicts.
   "The number of people entering the work force is declining
rapidly," he says. "Companies have to modernize, so once you
have the recovery starting in the economy, companies will
start to spend on their {labor-saving} equipment."
   Mr. Fossel has reduced health-care stocks to 4% of one
typical portfolio this month from 12% late last year. By
contrast, shares of technology companies have jumped to 10%
of the portfolio from 5% last autumn. One example of a new
favorite is Sierra Semiconductor, which makes chips for use
in facsimile machines, modems and high-resolution graphics
hardware.
   Like Associated Family's Mr. Orben, Mr. Fossel counts on
occasional weakness in such stocks for buying opportunities.
"Those stocks tend to be very volatile," he says. "They react
violently to earnings surprises, or there may be some piece
of negative news. That kind of volatility to the downside is
fine with us; it gives us the chance to pick up some more
shares."
   Mr. Fossel has also accumulated shares of retailers and
financial companies. Both sectors cut costs drastically to
survive the recession, he argues, and their battered stocks
are ready to rebound when the economy picks up.
   But Mr. Fossel doesn't think shares of commodity
companies, labeled "deep cyclicals" by Wall Street, will do
well. "There's a global overcapacity in all the major
commodity markets -- chemicals, copper, oil, steel,
aluminum," he says. "If you had a real boom, then that could
change. But if the recovery looks like what most people
expect, then that overcapacity gap won't be closed."
   That attitude is just fine with Doug Foreman, a portfolio
manager at Putnam Cos., the mutual fund operator. The more
people dislike "deep cyclicals," the cheaper he can buy them.
He likes technology stocks such as Intel and Sun
Microsystems, but he also is building a position in Dow
Chemical, and he bets the economy will boom this year.
   "The standard recovery shows 5% {annualized} growth {in
GDP} per quarter; economists are proposing 2% growth," he
says. "I'm no economist, but I think they'll be surprised. We
should have 4% growth in the second quarter."
   Mr. Foreman urges investors to take a long-term view of
the economy. He is buying Ford shares now because he views
the current price -- 40 1/4 Friday -- as a bargain, given the
strong performance he expects from the auto maker in two
years.
   Meanwhile, John Knapp, president of SCI Capital Management
in Cedar Rapids, Iowa, seeks a balance of growth and cyclical
stocks.
   Early last year, when the economy appeared to be taking
off in a flurry of consumer confidence generated by the
victory in the Persian Gulf War, SCI loaded up with cyclical
stocks. Soon such stocks accounted for an estimated 80% of
his portfolio. But the economic upturn fizzled. Prospects now
are for a steady, albeit modest, economic upturn, but Mr.
Knapp says he has "broadened the portfolio to be less
dependent on a strong cyclical recovery."
   To make his portfolio only 50% cyclical, SCI sold off such
stocks as Caterpillar and Alcan Aluminium and added shares of
such consumer-oriented companies as retailers Liz Claiborne
and Dayton Hudson, food-store chain Giant Foods, drug company
Warner-Lambert and Becton Dickinson, a health-care and
industrial safety concern. Still in the portfolio are some
old cyclical favorites including Deere, United Technologies
and Phelps Dodge.
   Mr. Knapp thinks the economy is really recovering this
time, not faking him out as it did last year. But "the most
threatening thing to the stock market now is an acceleration
of growth and a real vigor enveloping the economy," he says.
Such a development would set off fears of inflation, driving
interest rates higher and perhaps even prompting the Federal
Reserve to abandon its easy money policy. If that happened,
says Mr. Knapp, it would be time to sell some stocks --
including some of his cyclicals -- and build cash reserves.
   ---
   Friday's Market Activity
                                                                                                       

   The Dow Jones Industrial Average ended up 14.99 points at
3276.39. Standard  Poor's 500-Stock Index jumped 1.50 to
411.30, and the New York Stock Exchange Composite Index rose
0.71 to 226.96. Advancing issues outnumbered decliners 920777
on the Big Board.
   Volume surged to 246,710,000 shares from 197,240,000
Thursday, largely because of the quarterly "triple witching
hour," the session's simultaneous expiration of stock
options, index options and index futures.
   For the week, the industrial average rose 40.48 points, or
1.3%. The SP 500 jumped 5.46 points -- also 1.3%.
   Shares of Allied-Signal jumped 3 to 52 3/8 after the
aerospace and automotive company announced that it expects
first-quarter earnings of 85 cents a share rather than the 70
cents predicted in a survey of analysts by First Call, a unit
of Thompson Financial Networks.
   Goodyear Tire rose 3 1/8 to 67 1/4. Merrill Lynch analyst
Harvey Heinbach raised his earnings estimate for the Akron,
Ohio, concern to 80 cents a share from 70 cents. Merrill
Lynch maintained its "above average" rating for the stock.
   American Telephone  Telegraph rose 3/4 to 40 5/8 on
volume of 5.3 million shares, making it the Big Board's most
active issue. The Internal Revenue Service confirmed its
award of a $1.4 billion computer equipment and service
contract to ATT and its partner in the project, Pyramid
Technology.
   Oryx Energy fell 1 1/2 to 18 1/2. Thursday, the company
said it plans to sell its U.S. gas-processing operations for
about $273 million.
   Preferred Health Care tumbled 3 5/8 to 13 3/8 in American
Stock Exchange trading after the company indicated 1992
earnings are likely to fall short of expectations. The
company told analysts Thursday that its 1992 income would at
least double the 21 cents a share it earned last year.