Credit Markets:
   Bond Prices Rise Despite Reports on Housing,
   Factory Output That Point to Economic Recovery
   ----
   By Kevin Donovan
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Bond prices initially declined after the Commerce
Department reported that housing starts were up a sharp 9.6%
in February. A Dow Jones Capital Markets Report consensus of
economists had forecast starts would be unchanged in the
month.
   But as the yield on the Treasury's 30-year bond approached
8.10%, buyers began snapping up long-term and
intermediate-term notes. The buying was led by speculators
and dealers rushing to cover their short-sale positions. In a
short sale, dealers and professional traders sell borrowed
securities and later seek to make a profit by replacing what
was borrowed with cheaper securities. Essentially, these
dealers are betting that prices will fall.
   Institutional investors, who had been waiting for bonds to
get even cheaper, also were big buyers yesterday.
   Bonds continued to rise even after the Federal Reserve
reported that industrial production was up 0.6% in the month.
   "These aren't the kind of statistics that one would expect
to start a {bond market} rally," said Robert Brusca, chief
economist at Nikko Securities Co. International.
Nevertheless, market participants, finally agreeing with
analysts that Treasury securities are undervalued, decided
that yields of 8% on long-term bonds were too good to pass
up.
   Bonds also were helped by the latest consumer price index
report, which showed that inflation remains subdued. The
Labor Department said that the CPI rose 0.3% in February and
that the index excluding food and energy was up 0.4%. A Dow
Jones Capital Markets Report consensus of economists had
looked for 0.3% gains in both the overall CPI and the "core"
CPI without the volatile food and energy components.
   Some analysts said bonds were helped by a lack of selling
on the part of Japanese investors, who had been steadily
selling U.S. Treasurys in recent weeks to raise cash as the
Tokyo stock market plunged. The Tokyo stock market stabilized
yesterday. But many international investors worry that if
Tokyo stocks continue to decline, Japanese investors will be
forced to step up their selling in the U.S. bond market.
   No economic indicators are due for release today, but the
Federal Reserve will release its "Beige Book," a report on
business conditions in the 12 Federal Reserve districts
prepared eight times a year in the weeks before meetings of
the Federal Open Market Committee.
   Also today, the Treasury will announce details of next
week's two-year and five-year note auctions. Analysts
surveyed by Dow Jones Capital Markets Report expect the
Treasury to raise the size of the two auctions from last
month's by between $250 million and $500 million each. Last
month, the Treasury sold $14.25 billion of two-year notes and
$9.75 billion of five-year notes.
                                                                                                       

   Corporate  Junk Bonds
                                                                                                       

   The market for new corporate debt revved up, with about
$1.2 billion of new issues by a variety of borrowers.
   Perhaps the most eagerly awaited issue was a $400 million
two-part issue of Safeway Inc. senior subordinated notes and
debentures, priced through underwriters led by Goldman, Sachs
 Co.
   The securities were priced at yields that were
considerably higher than some had expected. Analysts said
last-minute haggling between investors and the offering
syndicate over the appropriate yields might have been the
reason the issue came to market much later in the day than
expected.
   "Investors feel Safeway is much more interested in
improving its physical plant to improve performance and
maximize cash flow than in raising its debt rating to
investment grade," said Randall Bauer, an analyst at
Federated Investors Corp. "They're going to demand a higher
yield for Safeway than for a company like Kroger, which has
always made it clear that it seeks an upgrade," Mr. Bauer
said. Kroger Co. is another supermarket company.
   Investors stand to reap favorable capital gains when a
high-yield issue's credit rating is raised to investment
level, he said. Also, investors believe that interest rates
will continue to rise, so they are trying to lock in a
"safety cushion in the form of higher yield" to protect
against future losses, Mr. Bauer said.
   Safeway's $250 million of seven-year notes was priced at
par to yield 9.35%, two percentage points higher than the
yield on the Treasury's seven-year note. The $150 million of
15-year senior subordinated debentures was priced at par to
yield 9.875%, about 2.26 percentage points above the
Treasury's 10-year note.
   Safeway was the second junk bond deal priced this week.
Vons Cos. sold $150 million of 10-year senior subordinated
notes Monday.
   In the investment-grade market, Pacific Gas  Electric Co.
sold $200 million of 33-year first and refunding mortgage
bonds due May 1, 2025. The issue was won in competitive
bidding by a group led by Morgan Stanley  Co. and reoffered
as 8.375% issues at 96.057 to yield 8.74%, or about 0.70
percentage points above the Treasury's 30year bond.
   In the secondary market for investment-grade securities,
most high-grade corporates ended up 1/8 to 5/8 after making
up losses that followed the suprisingly strong housing-starts
data.
   Prices of junk bonds, or securities with low credit
ratings or no credit ratings at all, finished mixed in light
trading.
                                                                                                       

   Municipal Bonds
                                                                                                       

   Prices of municipal bonds ended mixed, with some issues
posting declines of as much as 1/4 point.
   Among seasoned names, the New Jersey Turnpike Authority's
6.5% issues of 2016 finished 1/4 easier at 97 1/4 to yield
6.71%
   Despite the bearish tone that permeated the market, most
of the session's slate of new issues totaling more than $1.2
billion fared well with investors, dealers said. This is
because after the recent declines among munis of as much as 1
1/2 points, buyers found the offerings attractive at the new,
depressed levels. The 1 1/2-point price decline is equal to a
yield increase of about 0.15 percentage point.
   In competitive action, underwriters at Goldman, Sachs 
Co. reported an unsold balance of about $44 million on an
offering of $275 million New Jersey Transportation Trust Fund
Authority transportation revenue bonds.
   The bonds, rated double-A by both Moody's Investors
Service Inc. and Standard  Poor's Corp., were priced to
yield from 3.50% in 1993 to 6.20% in 2002.
                                                                                                       

   Mortgage  Asset-Backed Securities
                                                                                                       

   Chrysler Corp. and General Motors Corp. are poised to sell
a total of nearly $3 billion of auto-loan securities,
underscoring the growing dependence of auto makers on the
asset-backed market for funding.
   General Motors' GMAC Auto Receivables Corp. unit plans to
offer around $2 billion in two offerings, while Chrysler
expects to price about $700 million.
   Auto-loan securities, because of their triple-A ratings,
can be priced at tighter yield spreads to Treasurys than
corporate bonds. That makes auto-loan securities attractive
from a funding-cost standpoint.
   Meanwhile, new issuance of real estate mortgage investment
conduit securities was heated yesterday, with more than $2.2
billion announced by underwriters.
   In secondary mortgage securities trading, Government
National Mortgage Association 8% securities for April
delivery rose 12/32 to 97 22/32, Federal Home Loan Mortgage
Corp. Gold 8% securities gained 13/32 to 97 14/32, and
Federal National Mortgage Association 8% securities rose
13/32 to 97 11/32.