How Do You Avoid
   Having Bag Pilfered?
   Experts Offer Tips
One strategy is to put only clothes in checked bags. Some
bag handlers "massage" soft luggage, feeling for objects like
camcorders or portable telephones. Also, don't depend on bag
locks. Some thieves have keys to commonly used bags such as
Samsonite or American Tourister, and others use special
knives to pry locks or slit fabric bags.
   Travelers should be aware of increased risk at certain
airports. According to a major carrier, the six worst in the
U.S. are Kennedy, LaGuardia, Newark, Boston, Miami and Los
Angeles. At the three New York-area airports alone, 6,000
bags were reported stolen in the past two years.
   If your bag is pilfered, make a claim against the airline.
Many pay promptly, especially if you're a frequent flier.
Some airlines, however, often haggle or refuse to pay
anything. TWA is very tough on passengers who make claims,
one industry official says. A TWA spokesman says, "We follow
the same rules as everyone else."
   Airlines are plagued with false claims. To curb fraud,
over 30 U.S. and foreign carriers pool the names of everyone
who makes a claim. Thus, a traveler making a claim against
United this year may come under suspicion if he made a
similar claim against American last year -- and United may
pay him nothing.
   That spells woe to the traveler who really does fall
victim to thieves more than once. Cybel Maio, who often flies
from California to Switzerland to visit relatives, filed a
claim against American a few years ago and another against
United in 1989 when she says several items worth $500 were
taken from her checked bag. But United, noting the claim
against American, refused to pay anything. United also wrote
Mrs. Maio that "the FBI has jurisdiction and may be involved
in the review of your claim."
   An FBI spokesman says the agency doesn't review claims.
Mrs. Maio says this is only her second claim in over 100
flights, and charges that "what United is doing is calling me
a thief and a liar and trying to intimidate me." United won't
comment.
   Police say the best way to avoid all this trouble is a
preventive measure. As one policeman puts it: "If you really
don't want to lose it, don't check it. Carry it."
   (See related story: "Take Your Bag, Sir? Luggage Theft,
Some Quite Sophisticated, Vexes Passengers --- Fliers Are Not
Reimbursed For Many Checked Items; Airports Counterattack ---
Missing: Golf Clubs, Caviar" -- WSJ Feb. 26, 1992)