Incentive Pay for Politicians
   ----
   By Joseph A. Grundfest
Many of the factors that account for failure in corporate
America can also explain governmental failures at the
federal, state and local level. The challenge is to
reintroduce a rational incentive structure that provides
executives, politicians and regulators with motives to
compete and to innovate, rather than to focus on petty
strategies designed primarily to enhance their job security
and to increase their compensation regardless of the
consequences for society at large.
   In political and corporate America alike, incumbents who
want to remain in office have an overwhelming advantage. In
99.7% of all elections for boards of directors, management's
slate stands unopposed for re-election. In the remaining
three-tenths of 1% of elections, management prevails over
challengers 75% of time. In Congress, 96.9% of incumbents who
stood for reelection in 1990 were successful. Almost
three-quarters of the House, 318 representatives, either ran
unopposed or won more than 60% of the votes cast. Lower down
the ranks, the civil service system protects government
employees against many forms of favoritism and bias, but also
makes it virtually impossible to pay for performance or to
dismiss poorly performing employees.
   Political America's financial incentives can be as
perverse as anything found in the corporate sector.
Politicians are paid fixed salaries, and performance-related
incentives provided by private parties are called "bribes."
That doesn't mean, however, that financial incentives are
absent in the public sector or that all elected officials of
equal rank receive equal reward: A politician's performance
affects campaign contributions as well as payments in kind in
the form of junkets, luncheons and a host of small favors
that can assume significance disproportionate to their dollar
cost. Political behavior can also affect the availability of
employment opportunities in the private sector after the
official's retirement from public life.
   These problems -- and a potential solution -- were
analyzed quite succinctly by comedian Jackie Mason. "Put the
politicians on commission," Mr. Mason recommends, "pay them a
percentage and you'll see this country's economy grow like
Elizabeth Taylor in a bakery."
   Now there's an interesting thought. Obviously, incentive
compensation will not work everywhere in government. Paying
prosecutors on the basis of the number of convictions they
obtain, for example, would pose serious moral hazard problems
and raise deep questions about the integrity of the criminal
justice system. Defining "success" or "failure" for a public
official can be much more difficult than for a corporate
executive. Even when the objectives of a public service
program can be specified, it is not a simple matter to
develop a social consensus about the priorities and
weightings that would have to enter compensation
calculations.
   But even with these and other difficulties fixed firmly in
mind, there are rather remarkable opportunities for incentive
compensation in the public sector. Here are four examples:
   Education. Why is it that American colleges and
universities are generally recognized as the finest in the
world, yet we are widely condemned for the quality of our
primary and secondary education? A large part of the answer
lies in the difference between the incentive structures that
drive colleges and universities on the one hand and primary
and secondary schools on the other. Colleges and universities
compete. If a college or university falls behind in the
quality of its programs, it suffers a decline in revenue and
reputation as students shift to other schools that do a
better job. Primary and secondary school educators typically
face no such competition. Is it any wonder that our primary
and secondary education system is a bureaucratic backwater
and national embarrassment? A dose of competition at the
primary and secondary level -- just as we now have at the
college and university level -- might not solve all our
educational woes, but could go a long way toward improving
them.
   Food and drug regulation. Incentives at the Food and Drug
Administration have been biased for decades. The agency was
consistently subject to political risk if it approved a drug
that later proved to have adverse side-effects, but was not
rewarded it it moved promptly to bring to market
pharmaceuticals with expected benefits in excess of costs.
   The solution to this problem is to reward the drug
administrators for accelerated approval of safe and effective
pharmaceuticals. Suppose the government licensed high-quality
independent laboratories to assist the FDA in making
determinations, and also allowed drug companies to fund this
research. Suppose also that these private laboratories were
subject to civil liability for side effects of any drugs they
might approve as well as criminal liability for particular
forms of misconduct.
   Such laboratories could hire at pay scales above the
government's, and help accelerate drug approvals. Given the
large number of qualified biomedical research institutions in
this country, it is entirely conceivable that a privatized
adjunct to the FDA could help the agency do a faster and
better job, particularly if the agency were called to task
for unwarranted delays just as it is properly chastised for
imprudent approvals. Indeed, recent FDA scandals involving
bribery and falsification in the agency's generic drug
approval process underscore the potential for abuse in the
current system.
   Predictive agencies. Many government agencies are in the
prediction business and are thus vulnerable to the charge
that their forecasts are manipulated for political ends. The
Congressional Budget Office generates forecasts of the gross
national product, inflation, unemployment, interest rates and
a variety of other economic variables. It is, rightly or
wrongly, subject to the suspicion that its forecasts are
slanted to suit the purposes of the congressional leadership.
   The president's Council of Economic Advisers forecasts
essentially the same statistics. It is, rightly or wrongly,
subject to the suspicion that its forecasts are slanted to
suit the purposes of the president.
   The Central Intelligence Agency generates a blinding range
of predictions about foreign economic, social and military
developments. It too is subject to suspicions of
politicization.
   Why not tie a portion of each agency's compensation to its
success as a prognosticator? If CBO or CEA do a better job
than the Blue Chip forecasts, then they could get a bonus. If
they perform worse, they would take a cut. Similarly, the
more accurate the predictions of the CIA's analysts, the
greater their reward.
   Congress. At first blush, the idea of incentive
compensation for members of Congress sounds totally
impossible. How would we even begin measuring congressional
performance? How would we measure the value of egalitarian
goals, of civil justice, of the environment, of national
defense? And how could we fold all these objectives into a
single incentive plan?
   But this makes the problem overly complex. There is a
broad consensus that the U.S. is better off with a strong and
growing GNP. A growing economy creates jobs and generates
revenues that can be used to support social programs. Tying
congressional pay to real GNP growth over a suitably long
period, adjusted to correct for the effects of deficit
financing, could have several benefits.
   First, it could create an incentive for cooperation among
members of Congress and reduce the energy now devoted to
special interest measures that benefit specific groups at the
expense of society as a whole. Second, it could cause
Congress to pay increased attention to the cost of
regulation. Third, it could induce Congress to consider more
carefully the economic costs of social programs that would
otherwise be adopted on the basis of wishful projections.
   The shortcomings of even such a simple plan would be
legion. The GNP does not calculate the value of clean air, of
quality of life or of a scenic vista. But the question is not
whether we can design a perfect incentive plan. We can't. The
question is, can we design a plan that works better than the
one we now have in place. That is a far easier hurdle to
clear.
   ---
   Mr. Grundfest, associate professor of law at Stanford, was
a commissioner on the Securities and Exchange Commission,
1985-90. This is abridged from a speech to the American
Economics Association.