Abreast of the Market:
   Home in the Range: What It Will Take
   For Wavering Stock Market to Break Out
   ----
   By Robert Steiner and Douglas R. Sease
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
Earnings, most analysts agree. Investors won't push stocks
higher without strong gains in corporate earnings confirming
recent evidence that the economy is recovering.
   But that's not enough, other analysts insist. Improved
earnings alone won't lift the stock market out of its trading
range unless interest rates come down. If interest rates are
rising, even strong earnings increases will spark little
excitement, they argue.
   Though fatter profits are on everyone's wish list, not all
earnings are equal. Investors are likely to pay special
attention to earnings of industry groups that are expected to
benefit first in this recovery.
   James Solloway, director of research at Argus Research,
suggests profits already have rebounded in one such key
group: banks. He notes that most banks, except for many on
the West Coast, showed the first signs of improvement in the
last six months of 1991 after taking big write-offs on bad
loans early last year.
   Strong bank profits are key indicators of a recovery
because "healthy banks can be more aggressive in their
lending practices," he says. During the recession, banks were
"more interested in building capital and cutting costs than
in making new loans. I don't think that's the case anymore."
Mr. Solloway suggests that investors keep an eye out for
continued earnings reports from major commercial banks in the
Northeast, and big regional concerns such as NCNB and
Norwest.
   Investors also are likely to be encouraged by the earnings
of housing-related companies such as furniture builder
Armstrong-World Industries, developer Lennar Corp. and
home-builder Toll Brothers. Home-builders will benefit from
relatively low mortgage rates and favorable winter weather
that saw a pickup in housing starts.
   Investors are urged to watch for good earnings among
mining companies to help boost stocks, too. A surge in mining
companies' profits would reflect increased demand for many
metals -- including aluminum, zinc and lead -- by rebounding
construction and heavy machinery industries, he says.
   Other strategists suggest that investors will push stocks
higher when they see stronger earnings at "cyclical consumer"
companies. These concerns make or sell consumer products that
people buy when they're confident that paychecks will keep
rolling in. Tim Love, a portfolio manager at Marinvest, a
unit of Hong Kong  Shanghai Banking, has his eyes peeled for
an earnings pickup in specialty retail companies, such as Gap
and Limited.
   He also is expecting earnings improvements from AMR Corp.,
parent of American Airlines, and Delta Air Lines. In
discussions with equities analysts and investors, AMR
officials are "trying to massage up the Street's earnings
expectations," he says.
   But many strategists warn that if interest rates jump
sufficiently, that could attract investors' capital into
bonds, away from stocks. That would happen if bond holders
fear that inflation will erode the value of their investments
and, therefore, require higher yields to compensate them for
this risk.
   If interest rates fall, however, stocks can jump higher
with the first signs of good earnings. "In a lower-rate
environment, earnings disappointments are easier to accept,
and good earnings are that much better," says David Shulman,
chief strategist at Salomon Brothers.
   Mr. Love of Marinvest thinks interest rates are more
likely to fall than to rise. That is because bond market
investors have "wrongly anticipated an inflationary pickup in
the recovery," he says. Economic indicators, including
February's smaller-than-expected producer price index,
released Friday, suggest that inflation is under control, he
says.
   However, inflation is only one factor that can push up
interest rates, counters Carmine Grigoli, who is setting up
his own market-strategy concern. "Fear of rising credit
demands will propel bond yields higher," he predicts. The
yield on the benchmark 30-year U.S. Treasury bond, quoted
Friday at 8.06%, "could reach 8.5%-9% by the early fall," he
said. Such levels could bring about a 7% to 12% drop in the
Dow industrial average, regardless of how good earnings are,
he says.
   Joseph McAlinden, chief strategist at Dillon Read, agrees
interest rates are headed higher. "Once bond yields
stabilize," he adds, "higher earnings will have their
positive impact."
   But A. Marshall Acuff, portfolio strategist at Smith
Barney, says, "You can't prove a lot at the present time
about where interest rates might be later in the year.
   It's possible, he says, that the stock market's trading
range "just continues for a while."
   ---
   Friday Market Activity
                                                                                                       

   Stock prices advanced strongly despite rising interest
rates.
   The Dow Jones Industrial Average gained 27.28 points to
3235.91 on New York Stock Exchange volume of 176 million
shares. Advancing issues on the Big Board were ahead of
decliners 987 to 675. Standard  Poor's 500-Stock Index
advanced 1.95 points to 405.84. For the week the Dow
industrials gained 14.31 points, or 0.4%.
   Shares of companies that would benefit from an economic
recovery led the rally. Caterpillar rose 1 1/2 to 49,
Aluminum Co. of America jumped 2 1/2 to 69 1/8 and
International Paper rose 1 to 74 3/8. Indeed, paper and wood
product stocks were among the strongest performers.
Weyerhaeuser gained 1 to 33 7/8, Georgia-Pacific rose 1 3/8
to 64 7/8 and Mead added 1 to close at 37.
   Auto makers were the obvious exception to the cyclical
interest. Although early March auto sales seemed good, they
weren't as good as expected. Analysts had some negative
comments on General Motors and Ford. General Motors fell 3/4
to 37 1/8 and Ford fell 1/4 to 36 1/2. Chrysler, however,
rose 1/4 to 16 3/4.
   Stride Rite tumbled 3 7/8 to 24 on very heavy volume.
Suffering from slow sales, the shoe maker predicted fiscal
first-quarter earnings will be 33 or 34 cents a share, just
above last year's 32 cents a share, but below analysts'
expectations.
   Pfizer shares were off 1 1/4 to 71 3/8 in very active
trading. A Food and Drug Administration report released
Thursday suggested the failure rate of Pfizer's Bjork-Shiley
heart valve is high enough that patients with the valve
should replace it. Pfizer criticized the report's findings.
   Dayton Hudson shares rebounded from a steep drop Thursday
when the retailer disappointed investors with a
fourth-quarter earnings report. Net income fell to $2.60 a
share from $3.21 a share a year ago. Dayton Hudson's stock
regained 2 1/8 to close at 63 3/8 after Thursday's 5 5/8
point loss.
   Investors fled Homestake Mining after it announced plans
to merge with International Corona. Homestake will exchange
0.35 share for each International Corona share. Homestake's
shares tumbled 1 1/2 to 13 1/2. International Corona shares
rose 3/4 to 4 1/4 in American Stock Exchange trading.
   Green Tree Acceptance fell 1 1/8 to 37 1/2. Green Tree
offered three million of its common shares at 36 Thursday.
The proceeds will be used to buy back its preferred shares
held by the Resolution Trust Corp.