Workplace:
   OSHA Inches Toward Limiting Smoking
   ----
   By Albert R. Karr and Rose Gutfeld
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
The agency's cautious approach reflects concern about
arousing powerful opposition from the tobacco industry, some
members of Congress and even other Bush administration
officials. One potential source of attack is the White House,
where tobacco interests have considerable clout -- especially
at the White House Council on Competitiveness, a
regulator-watching group headed by Vice President Quayle --
and at the Office of Management and Budget.
   While many employers and localities have moved to ban or
restrict smoking in factories and offices, any OSHA action to
further curb workplace smoking would have nationwide impact.
"If OSHA mandates {a ban or curbs}, that will speed up the
process," says Samuel Johnson, president of the International
Facility Management Association, based in Houston.
   The Labor Department agency is starting to move partly
under prodding from the Environmental Protection Agency,
which places tobacco smoke in the top tier of known
carcinogens, asserting that it causes more deaths than many
substances already regulated by OSHA. The EPA can't act
directly because Congress barred it from regulating tobacco
smoke in 1976.
   So the EPA is pushing OSHA, which has the authority to
regulate work-site smoking but has been slow to act. The EPA
is completing a revised study on passive tobacco smoke that
shows, for instance, that about 3,700 deaths annually are the
result of cancer caused by such smoke. The EPA plans to
suggest voluntary guidelines for how to handle tobacco smoke,
as well as other indoor pollutants. EPA officials consider
smoke the biggest indoor air quality problem, but not the
only one.
   The EPA efforts are "one reason we {are} moving ahead,"
says OSHA chief Gerard Scannell. Another is the courts. In
the past five years, OSHA has received petitions from Action
on Smoking and Health, or ASH, an anti-smoking group here, to
ban or restrict smoking. OSHA has always flicked aside the
petitions, but a federal court in Washington has directed the
agency to answer ASH allegations of "unreasonable delay."
OSHA responded that there hasn't been any undue delay
considering the issue's complexity.
   There is clearly mounting pressure on OSHA officials to
take action, says Athena Mueller of ASH. "I think very
strongly that they will have to act," she says.
   Partly to minimize controversy, OSHA is tackling the issue
as part of a broader look at indoor air pollution that
includes other substances such as lead, formaldehyde, radon
gas, combustion gases and harmful building materials. That
approach is expected to draw less head-on opposition from the
tobacco industry and others, including some labor unions,
that oppose smoking curbs.
   The AFL-CIO plans to endorse the broader approach. The
federation must balance the health worries of many union
workers against fierce resistance from other members who
smoke. And because of job concerns, the Bakery, Confectionery
and Tobacco Workers union has gotten the federation to
declare that the issue of smoking curbs should be resolved by
collective bargaining.
   The tobacco industry would also prefer that OSHA consider
issuing a broad-based rule that covers indoor air pollutants
and involves better ventilation rather than singling out
tobacco smoke. "What I'd like to do is a good job on indoor
air quality," Mr. Scannell says, "and if smoking is a part of
it, then so be it."
   Mr. Scannell will be leaving OSHA on Friday to return to
private business, but he doesn't expect his departure to slow
any OSHA action on workplace smoking. "It's on track -- I
think it's going to be very difficult to take it off track,"
he says.
   The process will be tortuous, however. Instead of issuing
an advanced notice of proposed rule-making -- the usual first
regulatory step -- OSHA late last year proposed the request
for information. This will probably be followed by regulatory
proposals.
   The decision to take the cautious approach was made by
Labor Secretary Lynn Martin on the recommendation of her
policy office. But the caution angers antismoking advocates.
"OSHA chose the most lowly and miserable regulatory action
they could think of," complains Ms. Mueller, ASH's general
counsel. "Their docket is already bursting with information"
on smoking. Mrs. Mueller also argues that including smoking
as part of a general indoor-air-quality problem
"automatically dilutes the attention" to smoking.
   That appears to be part of OSHA's strategy. "I was really
pleased that it sorted out this way," OSHA's Mr. Scannell
says. "We did not come under attack" from industry.
   One reason is that "we expect OSHA to be much more
objective" than the EPA is, says Thomas Lauria, a spokesman
for the Tobacco Institute, a Washington-based group that
spearheads the industry's lobbying effort. Government data
don't justify smoking bans that would "cut off the 30% of the
workers" who smoke, he asserts. In arguing against
regulation, the group plans to cite, as it has in the past, a
report by the government's National Institute on Occupational
Safety and Health. The Tobacco Institute argues that the 1984
NIOSH report shows that tobacco smoke accounts for only 2% of
indoor air pollution.
   But NIOSH has complained that tobacco companies have
misrepresented the 1984 report. And critics such as ASH quote
a NIOSH report issued last year that calls for a ban on
work-site smoking because it is a serious health hazard.
   The tobacco industry response won't be aimed only at OSHA.
"We're definitely making our views known anywhere in the
government. We've been an effective lobby over the decades,"
Mr. Lauria says.
   In addition to administration officials, the tobacco lobby
also counts on help from friends in Congress like Rep. Thomas
Bliley, a Virginia Republican. After the EPA issued a draft
report on passive smoke and cancer in June 1990, Mr. Bliley
said the work was faulty. An EPA science advisory board last
year sent the report back to the EPA to better justify its
conclusions, though the board said those conclusions are
basically sound. The EPA is expected to issue its revised
report this spring.
   Now, Mr. Bliley's office warns that any OSHA smoking rule
will have to be defensible in court. Says Jeffrey
Schlagenhauf, a Bliley aide: "I hope OSHA understands the
importance of really doing the scientific work it's supposed
to do and won't just take the EPA's studies at face value."
   ---
                    A Look at Lighting Up
                                                                                                       

   -- An estimated 28% of Americans age 18 and over are
smokers.
   -- About 400 city and county ordinances restrict smoking
in the workplace, but only 10 ban it outright.
   -- A total of 37 states have laws restricting smoking in
the workplace.
   -- About 75% of 1,794 facility managers in a survey say
they ban or sesgregate smoking in their offices or factories.
                                                                                                       

   Sources: Centers for Disease Control; Americans for
Nonsmokers' Rights; International Facility Management
Association