Politics  Policy:
   Mitchell, Bush Agree on Idea of Tax Cut
   For Middle Class, Some Breaks for Firms
   ----
   By Jeffrey H. Birnbaum
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
During a speech and an interview, Sen. Mitchell reiterated
his party's backing for a tax cut for the middle class, and
welcomed the president's recent embrace of the idea. He also
joined the president in calling for corporate tax breaks that
would inspire quick investment.
   The Maine Democrat predicted Congress will pass a bill
this year that cuts taxes for individuals and corporations.
He said it will do so "as soon as possible."
   Sen. Mitchell's comments reflect an emerging strategy by
congressional Democrats to demonstrate a desire to work with
the president for quick results and to minimize their obvious
disagreements with the White House. In part, the goal is to
protect themselves from accusations that Congress is an
obstacle to measures that would help the economy.
   The Democrats' differences with the administration are
substantial. The president probably will propose a smaller
tax cut for the middle class than the Democrats want. The
administration also is expected to propose cuts in Medicare
and other benefit programs to pay for some of its tax cuts --
a plan the Democrats would reject.
   Moreover, the administration is again going to propose a
cut in the capital-gains tax, which Sen. Mitchell would
accept only if the top individual income-tax rate is
increased -- a trade-off that is anathema to President Bush.
   Still, Mr. Bush and the top-ranking Democrat in the Senate
now agree, in theory, on these basic budgetary issues:
   -- Funds previously designated for military spending
should be diverted to domestic needs. Sen. Mitchell suggested
taking more than $100 billion from military accounts over
five years. White House House spokesman Marlin Fitzwater said
yesterday: "We'll be transferring savings from defense to
deal with various aspects of domestic programs." Many
Republicans have said any peace dividend should be used only
to cut taxes and reduce the deficit, not add to domestic
spending. Mr. Bush previously supported that position, and he
still appears unlikely to go as far as the Democrats in
shifting defense funds to domestic programs.
   -- "Middle-class" families should be given a tax cut to
help revive the lagging economy. Sen. Mitchell declined to
specify the type of tax cut he preferred, but he said that
reductions of $30 billion to $50 billion over five years have
been widely discussed; President Bush is expected to propose
an increase in the personal exemption -- possibly just for
dependent children -- to accomplish this goal.
   -- A tax credit should be given for first-time home
buyers. Both President Bush and Sen. Mitchell would allow
penalty-free withdrawals from individual retirement accounts
for first-time home buyers.
   -- Special tax breaks should be given to corporations for
the purchase of new plant and equipment. Sen. Mitchell urged
the approval of a temporary investment-tax credit. President
Bush is expected to propose rapid write-offs for these same
purchases, and Sen. Mitchell said he would be open to such an
approach.
   -- The research-and-development tax credit should be made
permanent.
   Sen. Mitchell said he intends to sit down soon with other
Democratic leaders in Congress to discuss budgetary
proposals.
   In sharp contrast to past years' budget plans, this year's
is likely to widen the budget deficit, at least in the short
run, rather than aim to reduce it. The reason is that the
Democrats want to stimulate the weak economy, and believe
that more deficit spending, rather than less, would do that.
Sen. Mitchell and other Democrats, however, said they intend
to make sure that the deficit isn't widened over the long
term.
   Sen. Mitchell said his proposal would neither widen nor
narrow the deficit over five years. In the first year,
though, the plan probably would add to the deficit, he said.
He declined to say how much red ink he would expect, but he
did note that economists have testified that a deficit
increase of about $50 billion would be needed to stimulate
the economy. The deficit is projected to be a record of about
$360 billion in the current fiscal year.
   Slated for increases in domestic spending under Sen.
Mitchell's plan would be aid to state and local governments,
extended unemployment benefits and education, research and
training programs.
   The senator also took a hard partisan shot at President
Bush, saying Mr. Bush sounded "like a panicky candidate in a
losing campaign for president rather than a president
confidently seeking re-election."
   Sen. Mitchell's proposed cuts in the military are almost
twice as deep as the reductions many Pentagon planners and
White House aides have been considering. More importantly,
his package would rely much more on cutting personnel and
training than Defense Secretary Dick Cheney has been willing
to support.
   Mr. Cheney's latest cutback plans, for instance, envision
saving an additional $15 billion or so over the next few
years by letting active-duty military forces slip below the
1.6 million President Bush has advocated. By contrast, Sen.
Mitchell hopes to save as much as $40 billion over the same
period by slashing the number of personnel and sharply
reducing training efforts.
   The Pentagon contends that cuts of that magnitude would
decimate morale, force out thousands of officers and return
the military to the malaise of the post-Vietnam era. Those
who seek swift defense-outlay reductions, however, counter
that cutting personnel and training are the only ways to
achieve large and immediate savings.
   Sen. Mitchell's speech is bound to run into flak from
Democratic leaders in the House, who are still trying to
devise their own cutback proposals. Just a few hours before
Sen. Mitchell's speech, House Armed Services Committee
chairman Les Aspin (D., Wis.) told reporters that he and
House Democratic leaders are assembling a defense package --
to be unveiled by the end of next week -- that they hoped
will be embraced by their Senate counterparts and by
Democratic presidential candidates.
   Rep. Aspin's aides said they hadn't yet come up with an
overall spending target. But unlike Sen. Mitchell's plan, the
House version is expected to be backed by a detailed
assessment of changes in the international military threats
facing the U.S.
   ---
   Andy Pasztor contributed to this story.