Raymond James
   Plans to Acquire
   Stifel Financial
   ----
   By Martha Brannigan and William Power
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
While the value of the deal -- in the form of a stock swap
-- is only about $40 million, it is one of only a handful of
takeover agreements between nationally known brokerage firms
since the 1987 stock crash. While scores of tiny brokerage
firms have merged or died out since the crash, proposed
mergers among bigger Wall Street firms haven't come to
fruition.
   In composite trading on the New York Stock Exchange
yesterday, Stifel's shares soared on news of the planned
takeover to $10.375 a share, up $2.875, or 38%. Raymond James
shares finished at $25.50, down 37.5 cents.
   Raymond James and Stifel are among the 20 largest
brokerage firms based outside New York. Stifel will operate
as a division of Raymond James  Associates in St. Louis,
expanding the distribution of the combined operations into 16
states in the South and Midwest through about 725 brokers in
90 offices. The combined companies would have about $160
million in shareholder equity and annual revenue of about
$400 million.
   "It's going to benefit Raymond James in the longer term,"
said brokerage-industry analyst Perrin Long of First of
Michigan Corp. "It'll provide them with greater distribution
capability in the Midwest as well as where Stifel is strong
outside the Midwest, which is the state of Oklahoma." Mr.
Long expects other mergers between regional brokers.
   The two companies called the combination "an excellent
fit." The takeover will further boost the profile of Raymond
James, whose chairman, Thomas A. James, was recently elected
chairman of the Securities Industry Association, Wall
Street's main trade group.
   Under the agreement, Stifel shareholders would receive
about $11.57 a share in Raymond James stock for each share of
Stifel. That price is subject to adjustments based on
Stifel's third-quarter results and a final evaluation of its
net tangible book value. Raymond James's shares will be
valued on the basis of their average closing price during the
20 trading days ending 10 days before Stifel's shareholder
meeting, but between a minimum price of $24 and a maximum
price of $29 a share.
   The companies expect to reach a definitive agreement by
April 15 and to close in June. The pact is subject to the
execution of a definitive agreement, approval of Stifel's
shareholders, approval by the boards of both companies,
regulatory approval and other conditions.
   Raymond James, which has 14.4 million shares outstanding,
said that based on its stock's closing price Monday of
$25.875 a share, about 1,550,000 of its common shares would
be swapped for Stifel's 3,480,000 shares in a tax-free
exchange.