Long-Distance Carriers Face Obstacles
   ---
   Recession, Marketing Duels
   Will Crimp Earnings
   ----
   By John J. Keller
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
"Carriers backed off on sales and marketing in the fourth
quarter because revenues were so anemic," says Robert B.
Morris III, a telecommunications analyst at Goldman, Sachs 
Co. He says fourth-quarter revenue problems weren't helped by
December's mid-week Christmas and New Year's Eve holidays,
which led many people to take two weeks off and caused
business communications traffic to fall off sharply. Now
"we'll see that {sales and marketing} spending take off this
quarter {particularly} at MCI and Sprint," he says. "ATT
will follow suit."
   Jack B. Grubman, a telecommunications analyst at
PaineWebber Inc. says the primary problem for carriers is the
recession, which has slowed industry traffic volume growth to
5% to 6% from almost double digits two years ago. "I don't
expect that to pick up in the first quarter," he says.
   Price cutting, always welcomed by customers, is also
hampering carrier profits. The three leading carriers have
announced new residential and small-business services "that
amount to one big price cut," Mr. Morris says. In addition,
corporate users, which have seen domestic rates fall more
than 40%, stand to see prices drop further on international
rates.
   Currently pricing on international calls is set according
to "settlement rates" agreed to by domestic carriers,
including ATT, and foreign telecommunications authorities.
ATT and the Federal Communications Commission have been
struggling to convince their foreign counterparts to lower
settlement rates and balance the pricing of calls to and from
the U.S. Their efforts are critical: The U.S. ran a $2.8
billion trade deficit on international calls in 1990 and "we
expect the 1991 numbers may worsen by as much as 20% when
they're finally tabulated," says James Spurlock, special
assistant to the FCC's common carrier bureau chief.
   Things may be quite different this year, however. For one
thing, "the international scene will become increasingly
intense," says Mr. Morris. "You're starting to see the
breaking down of the U.S. oligopoly of ATT, MCI and Sprint
as new foreign entrants such as BT {British
Telecommunications PLC}, Cable  Wireless {PLC} and others
come into the {U.S.} market." As a counterattack, ATT had
been negotiating to take a stake in CW's highly profitable
Mercury Communications, which offers alternative network
services to business customers in Britain. But those talks
broke off earlier this month, according to individuals close
to the negotiations.
   In addition, some foreign countries are beginning to yield
to U.S. pressure to trim their rates. Says the FCC's Mr.
Spurlock: "We are cautiously optimistic that rates will
improve this year." For example, a three-minute call from
Sweden to the U.S. that used to carry a $5.28 settlement rate
in 1985, now costs $2.16. Similarly, Singapore has dropped
its rate to $3 from $7.50 seven years ago.
   Rates aren't coming down everywhere, however. "The pricing
picture is very good" for the carriers in a few business
markets where rates are beginning to firm, says Gregory
Sawers, an analyst at Sanford Bernstein  Co., New York. ATT
and MCI have increased pricing on offerings such as toll-free
800 numbers and special voice and data services, setting the
stage for improved margins.
   Still, analysts have cut their estimates on MCI and are
also eying Sprint skeptically. Mr. Morris two weeks ago cut
his 1992 estimate on MCI to $2.20 to $2.30 per share from
$2.40 to $2.50. For the first quarter Mr. Morris has MCI
earning 53 cents to 55 cents, down from his earlier
prediction of 58 cents to 60 cents per share. He says he's
leaning toward cutting his 1992 estimates on Sprint's parent,
United Telecommunications, since he now expects Sprint to
show an operating income of $85 million vs. an earlier
projection of $90 million in the 1991 fourth quarter and $395
million in 1992 instead of the $425 million he earlier
expected.
   Similarly, PaineWebber's Mr. Grubman recently cut his
earnings estimates for MCI, predicting the recession and
marketing costs will put increasing pressure on the
long-distance telephone company and the entire industry. Mr.
Grubman cut his 1992 estimates of MCI profit performance by a
dime to $2.20 a share and by a few cents in the first quarter
to 52 cents to 54 cents.
   "There was a lot of air in MCI's stock, growing as it did
from $29 to $34 in the last couple of weeks," says Mr.
Grubman. "Normally a 10-cent cut {in an annual earnings
estimate} doesn't affect a stock that much." MCI officials
declined to offer projections for the first quarter.
   ATT has dramatically slowed erosion of its market share
in the last couple of years. "MCI and Sprint, while still
gaining, aren't getting the two to three points a year that
they had been," Mr. Morris noted. Currently, Mr. Morris
figures, ATT has more than 70% of the $16 billion
residential long-distance services market and more than 50%
of the $37 billion business market. ATT's seeming
invulnerability to its rivals' raids in the last year, is
expected by analysts to continue for most of this year,
especially as the company derives continued gains from
cost-cutting programs and other restructurings aimed at
improving profits. But the analysts say ATT's spending to
withstand competition will have to increase, putting greater
pressure on margins down the road. An ATT spokesman wouldn't
give an outlook but did say the company's economists were
predicting "some form of recovery by the second half of 1992
. . . and industry growth will be back to 10% to 12% when the
economy recovers."
   Meanwhile, the marketing battle to lure customers away
from ATT is costing MCI and Sprint a bundle. MCI's
residential marketing campaign, called Friends  Family, has
won MCI five to eight million new customers since its
announcement last summer, according to Mr. Grubman. "It's a
huge success." Trouble is, residential calls don't offer much
in the way of margins, Mr. Grubman noted. MCI also recently
unveiled a new calling-card that offers joiners $35 or up to
four hours of free calls in return for not using its rivals'
cards. MCI has had greater margin success, he says, in newer
areas such as toll-free 800 numbers and international
services. And the new card program offers additional services
such as conference calling and a messaging service that carry
a fat fee for usage.
   ATT, meanwhile, has been trying to lure back
small-business defectors of its service with ads stating
flatly "We Want You Back" and pricing and service programs
which mirror its offerings to big corporations. Phone usage
by such customers offer carriers the highest operating
margins (as much as 18% vs. 10% on residential calls), Mr.
Grubman says. ATT in December also announced a daytime
discount calling plan that essentially cuts rates by 17% and
waives a $5 sign-up fee between now and April 5.