REVIEW  OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   Slavic Shakeout
Until there is genuine privatization, commercial dealings
within the Former Soviet Union (FSU) will be largely on a
state-to-state basis, which already is causing sparks to fly.
   Ukraine, for example, not long ago demanded an eightfold
increase in the ruble price for the coal it ships to Russia
and Russia threatened to retaliate with a similar boost in
the price of the oil it sends to Ukraine. Since there is
still nothing approaching market pricing and since the ruble
itself has become an unreliable unit of account, the only way
for these two republics to resolve their differences over
prices is through confrontation. Since Ukrainians have
deep-seated memories of the horrors they suffered during 70
years of Russian-dominated communism, the potential for
economic warfare is high.
   Clearly, the best thing that could happen to defuse these
state-to-state frictions would be wholesale privatization.
Whereas the republican governments are increasingly likely to
see trade agreements as a test of muscle and will, private
enterprises will see them as a way to make money. Those that
make money will want to hire more workers, which means that
they will have to make their own efforts to lower barriers to
labor mobility, by encouraging housing construction, for
example.
   As to the question of a common currency, it will present
many of the same issues that face the European Community in
its quest for a common currency. Unless Russia can come up
soon with a plausible plan for establishing a hard,
convertible ruble that the peoples of all the republics will
be eager to accept, the republics will be inclined to
establish their own currencies. Ukraine already is moving in
that direction. The issue of monetary sovereignty will become
just as big a barrier in the FSU as it is for the Europeans.
   So while there is economic logic in the idea of a single
economic space, the FSU is still subject to powerful
centrifugal forces pulling its members toward other
arrangements. For Ukraine and the Baltic States, the
experience with Moscow center has been too bitter to incline
them toward new bonds of commerce and friendship.
   The motto is "never again." Twelve of the states,
excluding the Baltics, have been willing to form a
Commonwealth of Independent States, but it is a commonwealth
with the loosest possible ties, more of convenience for
making dispositions of old relationships than a vehicle for
knitting together a new confederation.
   Despite all these problems, Mr. Mashits has managed to
persuade Kazakhstan and Belarus to join in the economic zone.
Maybe diplomacy will bring along Ukraine. For the sake of
general economic recovery it can be hoped that he makes
progress. But no one should be overly surprised if this
proves to be a far more difficult task than it now looks.