Counterpoint:
   Term Limits Are Unconstitutional
   ----
   By Jim Kolbe
The term-limit debate has ricocheted around the nation a
thousand times, tracing the same confining arguments with
little reference to the Constitution's text, structure and
history.
   At first, I was predisposed to believe Stephen Glazier,
William Mellor and others who have argued in these pages that
America's Founding Fathers reserved to the states the
authority to restrict congressional tenure either explicitly,
through Article I, Sec. 4, which empowers states to regulate
the "Times, Places and Manner" of congressional elections, or
implicitly, through the 10th Amendment's guarantee that
states retain those powers not delegated to the federal
government.
   But then I began sifting through the record. The findings,
which appear this spring in the Denver University Law Review,
weaken the argument that state-imposed term limits are
constitutional.
   In the article, co-author Troy Andrew Eid and I give
evidence that James Madison and other Federalists strongly
opposed term limits for U.S. senators and representatives.
They did so both at the Constitutional Convention of 1787 and
later in the fight over what was to become the Bill of
Rights. Indeed, even the most ardent proponents of term
limits -- men such as anti-Federalist leader William Findley,
who urged his fellow Pennsylvanians to defeat the proposed
Constitution in 1787 because of its failure to limit
congressional terms -- nonetheless agreed that the document
as ratified forbids both Congress and the states from
tampering with the congressional eligibility requirements of
age, residency and citizenship, the "standing qualifications"
listed in Article I.
   As judicial conservatives, we cannot brush aside the
intentions of the Constitution's framers. Federalists and
anti-Federalists were not only aware of the controversy, but
fought it out in debates that offer thoughts for today's
dialogue.
   The Federalists won that fight. Virginia's Edmund
Randolph, who first proposed term limits for representatives
at the Philadelphia Convention, was forced to delete this
provision from the draft ultimately submitted to the states
for ratification. Indeed, delegates such as Elbridge Gerry of
Massachusetts deserted the convention partly because the
majority had rejected term limits for the Senate.
   Term-limit proposals for senators and representatives
resurfaced at the state ratifying conventions beginning in
1788. New York, Virginia and North Carolina proposed amending
the U.S. Constitution to limit both congressional and
presidential terms. During the First Congress, Rep. Thomas
Tucker of South Carolina introduced term-limit measures for
both House and Senate. His proposals found no support.
   Why did the Founders, who were justifiably fearful of
legislative power given their experience with the "Imperial
Parliament," nonetheless consistently oppose congressional
term limits? One explanation is that they had seen how King
George III had manipulated the standing qualifications to
exclude popular reformers such as John Wilkes from serving in
Parliament. Accordingly, Alexander Hamilton declared that
Congress's membership rules "are defined and fixed in the
Constitution; they are unalterable by the legislature."
   The Founders, moreover, believed frequent elections, which
Madison called "the cornerstone of liberty," would be a
sufficient safeguard to congressional abuses of power.
Whereas members of Parliament served seven-year terms, U.S.
representatives (the only popularly elected lawmakers under
the original constitution) faced re-election every two years.
Madison and his allies were also wary of legislative
inexperience, particularly in foreign affairs. In Federalist
No. 53, Madison not only predicted some House members would
be returned to office repeatedly, but argued that their
re-election would benefit Congress as a whole. Speaking of
the House, Madison wrote: "The greater the proportion of new
members, and the less the information of the bulk of the
members, the more apt will they be to fall into the snares
that may be laid for them."
   While the framers' sentiments may strike us as surprising,
it bears remembering that these men were not populists in any
modern sense. They fought against "pure democracy," which
Madison rejected in Federalist No. 10. He argued in favor of
a republican legislature that would "refine and enlarge the
public views, by passing them through the medium of a chosen
body of citizens, whose wisdom may best discern the true
interest of their country, and whose patriotism and love of
justice, will be least likely to sacrifice it to temporary or
partial considerations."
   We suspect Madison would agree that there is too little
wisdom, patriotism and love of justice in today's Congress.
The Founders would no doubt be shocked by many of our "career
politicians" (even though several of them, including
outspoken term-limit supporter Gerry, devoted much of their
adult lives to legislative service). Nonetheless, the framers
had the foresight to create a remedy that later generations
have used when constitutional democracy breaks down. Article
V, which establishes the procedure for amending the
Constitution, permits Congress to propose its own term-limit
amendment. It was this procedure that was used to limit the
president to two terms. Alternatively, Article V grants the
states the right to convene a constitutional convention to do
the job.
   In fact, the term-limit movement is likely to win battles
in many states, but lose the war in the U.S. Supreme Court.
State supreme courts have heard cases involving the issue,
but postponed the constitutional challenge. The U.S.
Constitution is the sole instrument that provides the
authority to embrace term limits.
   Ironically, some conservatives argue that changed
circumstances in contemporary political life justify reading
the standing qualifications out of the Constitution
surreptitiously by inventing a substantive component to
Article I, Sec. 4. This trendy view of interpreting the
Constitution is an argument conservatives have rejected
before and should reject again. The "Times, Places and
Manner" clause, as understood by its framers and interpreted
by the courts ever since, regulates election procedures and
not the substance of office-holding. Reading a procedural
provision substantively brings to mind the discredited
"substantive due process" jurisprudence fashionable among
some left-wing judicial activists.
   Those who have proposed term limits should resist the urge
to make an end run around the Constitution and focus instead
on amending it as provided by Article V. Times change, but
the wisdom of our Founding Fathers never goes out of style.
   ---
   Rep. Kolbe (R., Ariz.) was elected to Congress in 1984.
Mr. Eid, who contributed to this article, is a Denver
attorney.