Marketing  Media -- Advertising:
   Fox Intercepts Viewers From CBS
   With Super Bowl Halftime Party
   ----
   By Joanne Lipman
Fox this year took the novel approach of "ambushing" CBS's
Super Bowl halftime by offering up a live version of "In
Living Color," its proud-to-be-tasteless comedy show. Heavily
promoted by both Fox and sponsor Frito-Lay, the Fox show made
an impressive debut: It snared more than a quarter of viewers
watching television, and CBS's ratings plunged by 22% during
halftime, according to preliminary A.C. Nielsen figures.
   "Extraordinarily successful," raved a Fox spokeswoman
yesterday. Fox executives are already talking about repeating
the ambush next year. "We'll spend the year trying to top
this year's successful show," the spokeswoman said.
   The Fox show, "Doritos Zaptime/The In Living Color Super
Halftime Party," poked merciless fun at football with
oftenjuvenile humor. But the real target of the jokes may as
well have been CBS.
   CBS, which charged advertisers more than $800,000 for 30
seconds during the game, had hoped to sell time during its
own halftime show, a songfest with a "winter wonderland"
theme. But those hopes were dashed after Fox announced its
counterattack. "There was normal {advertiser} resistance to
halftime, and that increased when the Fox counter-programming
strategy was made known," says David Poltrack, a CBS senior
vice president.
   CBS didn't sell out its ad time until late last week, and
to do so it ended up having to promise advertisers their
spots wouldn't air at all during halftime. Instead, it aired
some local ads and promotions for its own shows. That hurt
the network: In the 25 top markets representing almost half
of the nation's homes, more than four million households
turned away from CBS during halftime, missing plugs for the
network's lineup.
   CBS executives, not surprisingly, are quick to belittle
Fox's gains and pronounce this year's Super Bowl showing a
resounding success. Executives proudly point to healthy
ratings overall despite the lack of drama in the game.
   For the 25 markets, Nielsen reported that 40.3% of homes
with TV sets were tuned to CBS during the game, and 61% of
all of the night's TV viewers were watching the Super Bowl.
Fox's showing, by contrast, didn't even match up to ratings
of CBS's broadcast last Sunday of "Murder, She Wrote," Mr.
Poltrack notes.
   Still, Fox clearly gained millions of viewers at CBS's
expense. Preliminary figures show that in the half-hour
before halftime, 42.8% of homes with TV sets were tuned to
CBS, and 65% of all viewers watching TV were watching the
Super Bowl. But at 8 p.m. EST, during halftime, those figures
shrank to 33.4% and 49%, respectively, a loss of 4.1 million
viewers.
   Fox, meanwhile, tripled its ratings during its halftime
show, with 18.2% of homes with TV sets tuned to "In Living
Color" and a 27% share of all viewers.
   Part of CBS's problem, no doubt, was its misfortune to air
one of the least interesting games in Super Bowl history. The
Redskins led 17-0 going into halftime, and scored again at
the top of the third quarter. When national ratings are
released today, Super Bowl XXVI is likely to have an
unimpressive showing compared with previous Super Bowls.
(Last year on ABC, 41.9% of homes with TV sets watched the
Super Bowl and 63% of viewers were tuned to the Big Game).
   Fox also made big inroads with a combination of hype,
self-promotion and a willing sponsor in Frito-Lay's Doritos.
Frito-Lay first brought the concept to Fox after being sold
on it by the concept's creator, New York-based Entertainment
Marketing  Communications International.
   Fox, in turn, used the rest of its lineup to endlessly
tout the Super Bowl special. Last week's episode of Fox's
biggest hit, "The Simpsons," made fun of typical Super Bowl
halftime fare. Frito-Lay also promoted the show heavily,
tying it to a $1 million sweepstakes; it even got "In Living
Color's" dancers, the "Fly Girls," to announce the
sweepstakes winner during the show.
   While each of the three major networks pretends the others
don't exist, Fox takes pride in tweaking its bigger rivals by
name. It even encouraged viewers to turn back to CBS at the
end of the halftime show, with a countdown clock in one
corner of the screen.
   Still, Fox's ambush idea isn't for everybody. The program,
with its young cast gleefully defying censors, reveled in bad
taste. Its "Homeboyz Shopping Network" skit featured a gagged
Redskins quarterback Mark Rypien stuffed into a locker, as
well as a big jar of "NFL vitamins" labelled "steroids."
   "I think they strained the envelope. The content of the
show was a little much," says Joel Segal, an executive vice
president of McCann-Erickson, whose USAir and General Motors
clients advertised during the game but not the Fox show.
While Mr. Segal likes the idea of the show, he says, "for
certain clients, we would recommend against it."
   Frito-Lay, though, says it received only two calls
yesterday complaining about the racy show. "People around
here are three feet off the floor. It was beyond our wildest
expectations," a spokesman said. "It validates the idea that
alternative entertainment at halftime is an idea whose time
has come."
   ---
   Sega Plans Review
                                                                                                       

   Nintendo competitor Sega of America said its projected $55
million advertising budget could be up for grabs in a review
expected to begin next month.
   The company currently spends an estimated $25 million on
its Genesis video game systems, handled by the Los Angeles
office of Bozell, and $12 million on Game Gear portable
systems, handled by the Los Angeles firm of Della Femina
McNamee. "We're going to need a lot of advertising help,"
said Thomas Kalinske, president of the San Francisco-based
unit of Sega Japan, referring to the company's planned
introduction of CD-ROM technology.
   Sega will start reviewing its current agency assignments
"for knowledge and to form opinions" after the company's new
senior vice president of marketing, Edward Volkwein, arrives
next week, Mr. Kalinske said. Mr. Volkwein is a former
marketing executive with General Foods Corp. and former
president of Funk  Wagnalls L.P., the encyclopedia unit of
Field Corp. "It's not that we're unhappy with our advertising
at all," Mr. Kalinske said. "But I can't say never would we
change."
   ---
   Ad Notes. . . .
                                                                                                       

   SUPER BOWL ENDORSERS: Sports marketing executives say
Sunday's game isn't likely to launch commercial careers for
the Washington Redskins. For high interest from advertisers,
"you need a good game, and this one wasn't," says Nova
Lanktree, director of Burns Sports Celebrity Service.
                                                                                                       

   SAATCHI DENIES RUMORS: British holding company Saatchi 
Saatchi denied reports that it discussed the sale of its
Minneapolis-based unit, Campbell-MithunEsty, with Europe's
largest agency, Euro RSCG, based in Paris. "We aren't looking
to dispose of businesses anymore," says a Saatchi spokesman.
He added that "a seller in this market wouldn't get a good
price" anyway. "It isn't a reality," a Euro RSCG spokeswoman
said of the report in the trade magazine Adweek.
                                                                                                       

   REVIEWS: The Mexican Government Tourism Office said it
would solicit bids from agencies for its estimated $10
million to $15 million account next month. The account, which
comes up for review annually, is currently handled by Saatchi
 Saatchi Advertising, New York. . . . The U.S. Navy, as
required by law, is accepting applications from agencies for
its $15 million account, now at Omnicom Group's BBDO, New
York.
                                                                                                       

   ACCOUNTS: Perrier Group of America, U.S. distributor of
Source Perrier's mineral water, consolidated $5 million in
billings for bottled water brands Volvic and Arrowhead with
Perrier agency Waring  LaRose, New York.