Manila Electric,
   Now Recovered,
   Going Public
   ---
   Distributor of Electricity
   Will Be Largest Offering
   On Philippine Market
   ----
   By Lawrence MacDonald
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Many analysts believe the company will be an instant
blue-chip stock, an essential for Philippine share portfolios
with some of the same appeal as Philippine Long Distance
Telephone Co., the country's dominant telecommunications
company and currently the only major listed utility.
   "This is the largest offering to date. It is a major
utility company. And it is a monopoly. It has all the
ingredients that should make it a success," says Lorenzo
Lichauco, president of Peregrine Securities Philippines Inc.
   Like other brokers, however, Mr. Lichauco has some
reservations. For one thing, he worries that the offering,
which is equivalent to about 4% of the total market
capitalization, could swamp the underdeveloped stock market.
In addition, other companies contemplating large share
offerings are watching Meralco. "If Meralco doesn't do well,
it could very well delay future listings," Mr. Lichauco says.
   Included in the offering are 16.1 million Class B shares
available to foreigners and Filipinos, and 5.5 million Class
A shares available to Filipinos only. The Class B shares cost
121 pesos each; the Class A shares, 118 pesos each.
   Underwriters hope a preponderance of foreign-held "B"
shares will buffer the tendency toward speculation in the "A"
shares, which are more likely to be bought locally and sold
in response to short-term problems, such as power outages or
adverse government rate decisions.
   Among the risks that have made some investors cautious
about Meralco are inadequate power supply from National Power
Corp., the state-run power-generating company, high rates of
electricity pilferage, and government energy-price regulators
who have at times shown greater concern for politics than the
laws of economics.
   Whether or not Meralco overcomes these problems, the
utility's impact on the Philippine stock market and the
country's economy will be difficult to ignore.
   The share price has been trimmed twice during preparations
for the offering so that it is now slightly less than five
times 1991 per-share earnings. That makes the stock much
cheaper than the region's other listed electrical utilities,
both of which are in Hong Kong and are trading at 10 to 12
times annual earnings. Unlike Meralco, however, China Light &
Power Co. and Hongkong Electric Holdings Ltd. both generate
electricity.
   Meralco is the sole distributor of electricity to nearly
two million customers in Manila and several neighboring
provinces, a region that includes 22% of the population,
produces 43% of the gross national product, and in 1990 used
52% of the electricity consumed nationwide. (GNP measures the
value of a nation's output of goods and services.)
   In 1990, it was the Philippines' fifth-biggest company in
terms of revenue. By mid-1991, it had assets of 24.8 billion
pesos, up from 13.5 billion pesos in 1986, the year President
Ferdinand Marcos fled the Philippines, leaving a money-losing
Meralco in the hands of government banks. During the two
previous years, Meralco racked up total losses of 300 million
pesos.
   Its recovery has been impressive. For the year ended Dec.
31, Meralco expects to report record profit of 1.5 billion
pesos on operating revenue of 28.34 billion pesos, up from
496 million pesos profit on operating revenue of 21.4 billion
pesos in 1990.
   Baring Brothers & Co., the offering's lead international
underwriter, projects that earnings per share will grow 12%
in 1992 and 43% in 1993, provided that government regulators
approve an anticipated 7% rate increase by next September.
Analysts attribute the turnaround in part to President
Corazon Aquino's appointment in 1986 of Manuel Lopez as
Meralco president. The son of a Filipino businessman who
bought Meralco from U.S. owners in 1962, Mr. Lopez was a vice
president when Mr. Marcos seized the company in 1972.
   During the 1970s, Mr. Marcos transferred Meralco's
generating plants to National Power. Forced to confine its
business to distribution, Meralco was further undermined by
poor management and widespread pilferage of electricity.
   By the time Mr. Marcos was driven from office, Meralco was
losing money, foreign creditors had stopped lending to the
utility, and a majority of its shares were pledged to
government banks as collateral on bad loans.
   In March 1986, the month after Mr. Marcos fled, systems
losses hit a high of 23%. Losses have since been trimmed to
14.8%, of which about 6% is pilferage and the remainder,
technical loss. The reduction in losses and favorable
government rate decisions in recent years have aided
Meralco's return to profitability. Even so, the pilferage
rate remains the highest in Southeast Asia and one of the
company's biggest problems.
   Rates are another problem. The government recently
announced a 17% increase in the rates charged by National
Power, to be implemented in two stages, this month and in
February. Just when Meralco will be allowed to pass on the
higher charges to customers is unclear.