Aiding Ex-Soviets Brings Hard Lessons
   ---
   Germany Learns to Target and Verify Assistance
   ----
   By Timothy Aeppel and Terence Roth
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
"We don't see ourselves as policemen," says Thomas Held,
one of the German organizers, "more like logistical support
to make sure the materials go where they are supposed to."
   Episodes like this illustrate a sobering reality dawning
on Germany. After months of talking about the country's
leading role in aiding the former Soviet Union, some Germans
are beginning to wonder whether the aid has been effective.
Reports of German humanitarian aid shipments ending up on the
black market are only a small part of the problem. German
bankers and government officials are studying whether the
former Soviet economy is making efficient use of the wave of
trade credits and guarantees extended by Germany.
   And it isn't only the Germans who are wondering whether
such aid really is effective or whether much of it is being
squandered or padding the pockets of black marketeers. The
rest of the world is looking for lessons on what to do and
what not to do from the experiences of Germany, which has
pledged more than half of the world total of aid intended for
the former Soviet republics over the past two years.
   The clearest lesson is that closely monitored,
project-linked credits going directly to the people who need
them, rather than some faceless bureaucracy, have the best
chances of success. All-purpose credits, once typical of aid
to the former Soviet Union, are a thing of the past, says F.
Wilhelm Christians, supervisory board chairman of Deutsche
Bank AG, who for nearly 20 years was Germany's unofficial
credit ambassador to Moscow.
   "The procedure is what is important now," Mr. Christians
says, "and the most effective credits are the ones that are
directly channeled into specific projects and carefully
watched."
   It's a conclusion that others are applying, too. The
European Community commission has managed a massive food aid
program for which it has relied on such organizations as the
Red Cross and Medecins Sans Frontieres to do the groundwork.
The EC also recently started selling food at reduced prices
in Moscow to help keep prices reasonable and to provide some
experience in the workings of the market.
   Enormous sums are involved. The republics of the new
Commonwealth of Independent States are expected to need $20
billion to $25 billion a year in coming years. The EC
calculates that so far the world has pledged or extended
about $80 billion in financial, humanitarian and technical
aid. About $45.5 billion, or 57%, is from Germany.
   For Germany and the rest of the world, one overriding
interest lies behind largesse on this scale: stability. The
other EC states have been anxious to help make clear that all
of Western Europe is interested in a prosperous, stable CIS.
That's the argument Bonn has been making in urging others to
do more.
   While that message isn't being lost, there is some
resentment over Germany's posture. At a recent 47-nation
conference in Washington on coordinating future aid, there
were signs of behind-the-scenes tensions. German officials
have said for weeks they don't need help coordinating aid.
Instead, they urged greater efforts from other major
economies, above all the U.S., Japan and the oil-rich Persian
Gulf states.
   The two-day session yielded no broad accord on how to
coordinate Western aid. While the U.S. did announce more food
aid, it and others, such as the U.K., are limited by economic
problems and election-year politics. Others are waiting for
confusion in the C.I.S. states to die down.
   And clearly, as some German officials themselves
acknowledge, the German aid total can't set a standard for
others. At least 40% of Bonn's 75.4 billion marks ($47.03
billion) in aid reflects amounts Bonn agreed to in connection
with German unity, including 13.4 billion marks to ease
Soviet troops out of eastern Germany and the assumption of
17.1 billion marks in debts owed by the former Soviets for
goods bought from former East German concerns. Indeed, some
argue that nearly all the aid is somehow linked to
unification.
   "Many of the measures can't be used as examples for
others, who can't be expected to provide the same levels of
aid," says Hans-Hermann Hoehmann, a Soviet expert at the
German government's Federal Institute for Eastern European
and International Studies in Cologne.
   Moreover, a big part of Germany's aid package consists of
36.7 billion marks of export credit guarantees intended to
keep German exports to the former Soviet Union flowing.
Germany's allies point out this is as important for Bonn's
domestic budget as it is for former Soviet importers. More
than 450,000 jobs in eastern Germany are dependent on Soviet
trade, so many in Bonn see export credits as a substitute for
even costlier unemployment payments for eastern Germans.
   More than self-interest has been behind the German aid,
though. Last year's dire predictions of starvation and
refugees spurred Germany to mobilize and to ship food and
medicine to Soviet cities. Even the "Berlin stockpile," 200
warehouses stuffed with necessities for surviving another
Berlin blockade, was donated. German television stations ran
pledge campaigns, and some department stores set up booths
where customers could pack and mail cartons of canned meat,
chocolate and powdered milk to Soviet families.
   While that sort of aid apparently got where it was
supposed to, worries about diversions are just part of the
problem.
   "The general impression you get from business is that
there's a lot of money earmarked and sitting in banks waiting
for something to happen," says Heinrich Vogel, director of
the Institute of Eastern European and International Studies.
"The question is whether this will get translated into
productive uses."
   Germany's willingness to heap export credits on the C.I.S.
ran into a confused jumble of new bureaucracies in the
emerging states. Fully 20 billion marks of possible deals are
on hold because Bonn can't find an appropriate authority to
back credits for the enterprises.
   Plenty of the stalled projects fall into the void that
exists between the collapse of central control and the
delayed arrival of new structures in the republics.
   Now Bonn is tapping on the brakes. Recently it imposed a
cap on guarantees for German exports of five billion marks,
despite requests for guarantees totaling 70 billion marks.
Also under scrutiny is a five-billion-mark general credit
extended to Moscow by Bonn in the summer, intended to help
shore up Moscow's growing balance-of-payments deficit. Most
bankers believe it will be the last of its kind.