ABA Says Bush's Proposals to Reform
   Civil Justice System Ignore Main Issues
   ----
   By Christi Harlan
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
With those proposals and others, the ABA went well beyond
simply responding to the 50 specific reforms put forth last
year by the President's Council on Competitiveness.
   "Unfortunately, the council agenda is too narrow and in
its current form will have no real impact on justice in
America," the ABA said in the report, which was released at
the association's midyear meeting here over the weekend. "The
agenda may please some business and industry groups but will
do little to bring justice to poor and middle-class
Americans."
   The ABA said funding for Legal Services Corp., which
provides civil representation for the poorest Americans,
should be a higher priority than it has been with the Reagan
and Bush administrations. Both administrations have cut the
agency's budget and have criticized it for taking on too many
broad social problems and not concentrating on simpler civil
cases.
   The ABA called on the administration to fill scores of
federal judgeship vacancies and to stop creating federal
crime statutes that clog court dockets. And in a slight nod
to the responsibilities of its own members, the ABA said all
lawyers should be urged to provide some free legal services.
   Those sorts of recommendations weren't addressed in the
administration's reform agenda, which was summarized in a
speech to the ABA in August by Vice President Dan Quayle. Mr.
Quayle's speech included remarks about an overpopulation of
lawyers and the litigiousness of U.S. citizens that deeply
offended many ABA members.
   Mr. Quayle's remarks are still raising hackles among the
2,400 lawyers attending the ABA meeting, but the
association's formal "Blueprint for Improving the Civil
Justice System" avoids dealing with the vice president's
assertions, leaving that to some of the convention speakers.
   The ABA's blueprint agrees with many of the
administration's proposed reforms, while rejecting some and
withholding judgment on others, including one that would
limit the testimony of expert witnesses in product-liability
cases to widely held scientific theories.
   Both the ABA's and the administration's reform packages
support such measures as encouraging the resolution of
disputes outside the courtroom, temporarily reassigning
federal judges to districts with heavier caseloads and
screening federal legislation for imprecise language that
could encourage litigation.
   The ABA rejected the administration's proposals to set
limits on pretrial fact-finding, called discovery; to
restrict the number of appeals that prisoners can file; to
cap amounts for punitive damages, or monetary awards designed
to punish a defendant for reckless or intentional wrongdoing;
and to allow judges, not juries, to determine punitive
damages.
   The administration plans to propose specific state and
federal legislation for implementing its proposals by the end
of this month, said acting Deputy U.S. Attorney J. Mark
Gidley.