Technology  Health:
   Apple Aims to Boost Macintosh Power
   ---
   Move May Hurt Joint-System
   Venture With IBM
   ----
   By G. Pascal Zachary
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
And the Apple executives pointedly asserted that they
would not "restrain" improvements in the Macintosh, even if
it meant making Taligent's job more difficult.
   The mood at Apple raises the specter of "a fratricidal war
between Macintosh and Taligent," said one observer with close
ties to Apple. Originally, Taligent was an internal Apple
project, and the company's staff of about 180 still consists
almost entirely of Apple veterans.
   The outcome could be eerily similar to the conflict
generated by Microsoft Corp.'s development of both the
Windows command system and, in partnership with IBM, an
operating system called OS/2. The Windows software greatly
boosted the usefulness of Microsoft's original DOS operating
system, hurting the market for OS/2, making IBM angry and
eventually causing Microsoft to end the OS/2 partnership.
   The tension is a sign that Taligent's ambitions, once
formidable, may be foreshortened. When Apple and IBM inked a
wide-ranging partnership five months ago, executives from the
two companies talked about creating a common layer of
software, Pink, that would allow future IBM and Apple
computers to run the same applications, which they currently
can't do.
   "Now Pink is a sideshow," said Stewart Alsop, editor of PC
Letter, in Belmont, Calif.
   Mr. Alsop said it seems apparent today that Apple allied
itself with IBM in order to gain a supply of an advanced IBM
microprocessor called Power PC, which obtains performance
gains through an increasingly popular design technique called
"reduced instruction set computing," or Risc. "Power PC is
what Apple wanted out of the deal," he said.
   Some analysts question whether Apple isn't simply
pretending to de-emphasize Pink to protect current Macintosh
sales, even though Pink isn't likely to hit the market until
late next year or later. A spokesman for IBM, meanwhile, also
downplayed Pink's prospects, saying it never was meant to
replace OS/2, the system software IBM introduced five years
ago and is revamping once again in a bid to distinguish its
PCs from less-expensive clones.
   "Any hint that Pink is going to take over (from Macintosh
and OS/2) can be dramatically bad for both companies in the
short run," said Charles Wolf, an analyst at First Boston
Corp.
   John Sculley, Apple's chief executive officer, said the
company still sees an important role for Taligent. But he
describes Pink as a rival, not to the Macintosh, but to Unix,
an operating system used in high-end computer workstations
made by other companies.
   Mr. Sculley said Pink will help big corporations customize
applications in ways "that cannot be solved by conventional
operating systems today." But critics say this market is
quite small and they point to the modest sales of Next Inc.,
which has targeted custom applications with an operating
system called NextStep that seems to embody the promise of
Pink.
   Even executives at Taligent, which opened its doors last
month after receiving antitrust clearance from the Federal
Trade Commission, is backtracking from the promise of
creating a new standard that would subsume the Macintosh and
OS/2 systems. They say they intend to make it "possible" for
Pink to work with Macintosh and OS/2.
   "The current plan is that both Apple and IBM will take on
the responsibility" of making the two operating systems work
with Pink, said Joseph Guglielmi, Taligent's chief executive
and formerly a senior IBM executive.
   Apple badly wants to bust out of its niche in the personal
computer world. The Macintosh accounts for about 15% of PC
unit sales, up substantially from two years ago when Apple
sharply lowered prices but still well behind the overwhelming
leader, PCs that run Microsoft's DOS.
   Last week, Apple disclosed specifics on how it plans to
bolt the Macintosh operating system, which controls the basic
operations of a computer, onto Risc-based machines due out
beginning in late 1993. By hitching the Macintosh to IBM's
advanced Power PC processors, Apple says it can extend the
life of its bellwether family through the end of the decade.
   "Most of the world has misunderstood Apple's strategy: The
company is not dependent on a new operating system to bring
the Macintosh to Risc," said Michael Slater, editor of
Microprocessor Report, in Sebastopol, Calif.
   At the same time, Apple said it plans to intensify
efforts, begun last year, to convince owners of
DOS-compatibles to purchase Macintosh add-on software that,
among other things, would mix sound and images in
applications. The company also is trying to wrest away part
of the DOS standard from Microsoft by outfitting its
hot-selling notebook computers with the capability of
handling DOS files.
   Extending the reach of Macintosh may push Apple into
uncharted territory. In the past, the company has created
almost all of its own basic software, but in the future it
may rely more on outsiders. One possibility Apple executives
recently have discussed among themselves: buying Silicon
Graphics Inc., a Mountain View, Calif., maker of computers
used by engineers and scientists that are renowned for making
color images appear in three-dimensions. Apple's own efforts
in 3-D graphics are modest, and some executives argue that
the Macintosh could be made more compelling with the help of
Silicon Graphics.
   Apple has never made a major acquisition -- at its current
stock price, Silicon Graphics would cost more than $1.5
billion -- but the deal is supported by some Apple executives
who think the Macintosh would greatly benefit from an
injection of Silicon Graphics' 3-D technology. However,
Silicon Graphics isn't likely to welcome a deal. About a year
ago, the company turned down a purchase offer from Compaq
Computer Corp.