Medicine:
   Cell Advance
   Holds Promise
   For Diabetics
   ----
   By Jerry E. Bishop
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Diabetes is the result of an insufficient or defective
supply of insulin from the pancreas gland allowing too much
glucose to accumulate in the bloodstream. The type of
diabetes that must be treated with injections of insulin
several times a day -- insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus --
afflicts an estimated one million Americans.
   The Texas advance, which the University of Texas
Southwestern Medical Center has patented and is making
available for licensing, promises to overcome a major
stumbling block to an artificial pancreas now under
development. The artificial pancreas consists of
insulin-producing beta cells extracted from an animal
pancreas gland and encapsulated in an inch-long, wire-thin
plastic cylinder. The hope is that the tiny plastic capsule
will protect the beta cells from being rejected and destroyed
by a diabetic patient's immune system when it is implanted.
   Successful animal tests of such miniature artificial
pancreases were reported last month by two different research
teams, one at Washington University in St. Louis, working
with CytoTherapeutics Inc. of Providence, R.I., and the other
at BioHybrid Technologies Inc. of Shrewsbury, Mass., which
uses a plastic developed with W.R. Grace  Co.
   A potential roadblock to the artificial pancreas, however,
is a source of beta cells sufficient to meet the needs of a
million diabetics. Until now, it has been thought that beta
cells must be used because they have a built-in monitoring
and feedback mechanism that secretes insulin only when
needed. The plastic capsule would permit beta cells from
cattle or pigs to be used but it would require several
animals to supply enough beta cells for one person. Moreover,
the process for extracting the beta cells from an animal
pancreas is complex and expensive.
   The Texas researchers believe they have found a way to
solve this supply problem, said the team leader, Christopher
Newgard, assistant professor of biochemistry at the
university medical center. The researchers describe their
advance in this week's issue of the Proceedings of the
National Academy of Sciences.
   The researchers reported they use a line of cells that can
be cultured in the test tube and thus is amenable to mass
production. The cells were originally derived from the
pituitary gland of a mouse. Since the pituitary gland, like
the pancreas, is a hormone-producing gland the pituitary
cells have the necessary machinery for making and secreting
hormones like insulin, Dr. Newgard explained.
   The mouse pituitary cells were genetically engineered in
1983 to make human insulin by Regis Kelly and colleagues at
the University of California, San Francisco. Unlike beta
cells, however, the modified mouse cells don't turn their
insulin production on and off in response to blood sugar
levels. Dr. Kelly, who didn't patent the cell line, gave some
of them to the Texas team, Dr. Newgard said.
   The Texas scientists said they found that the reason the
mouse cells didn't respond to blood glucose levels was that
they lacked a gene that let glucose from the passing blood
seep into the cell. The researcher reported they have now
inserted the gene, called the GLUT-2 gene, which lets glucose
seep into the cell and trigger the secretion of insulin. The
mouse cells thus mimic the beta cells of the pancreas in
regulating insulin output in response to the level of glucose
in the blood.
   Dr. Newgard said that several improvements are being made
in the cells prior to tests in animals and eventually humans,
possibly within three to five years. At present, the cells
begin secreting insulin too soon, before blood glucose levels
rise to where normal beta cells would secrete insulin, a
problem he believes can easily be solved. The cells also
secrete a mouse version of a pituitary hormone, ACTH, which
may or may not affect humans.
   The research, nevertheless, "represents a first step
toward engineering of an artificial beta cell," the
researchers reported.