Cars and the Congressman
   ----
   By Bernard K. Gordon
Take the trade deficit turnaround in Europe first: From
Jan. 1, 1991, to the end of October, the U.S. recorded a $13
billion surplus with "Europe." It's mainly Holland and
Belgium that account for that. Those two small EC members
represent $12.6 billion of our $13 billion surplus with
"Europe." Belgium buys lots of American tobacco, and they
both buy U.S. aircraft and engines. Neither, however, buys
our cars. In Holland, U.S.-made cars don't even make the
Commerce Department's standard "top 40" export list. In
Belgium they rank 30th. It's also not U.S. cars that
contribute to the modest trade surpluses with Spain and
Britain ($2 billion and $3 billion). In Spain American cars
don't show up at all on the Commerce list, and in Britain
they're 27th.
   The other news Mr. Gephardt doesn't mention is that the
U.S. still has major trade deficits with Germany and Italy --
$3.8 billion and $2.8 billion, respectively, through October.
And if it's really Japan's purchases of U.S. cars and trucks
he's worried about, he ought to compare the figure with
German and Italian imports of American cars and trucks. To
make the comparison equivalent in terms of population, I've
thrown in Norway, which brings the three in Europe to a
population figure identical with Japan's 124 million. And
what do we find? In 1989, Japan bought $498 million in U.S.
cars and trucks; Germany, Italy and Norway bought $478
million worth.
   In reality, it is only Germany among the Europeans that
buys U.S. cars in numbers worth reporting. Everywhere else in
the world with few exceptions -- mainly Taiwan, Israel and a
few Arab states -- there are essentially no imports of
American cars. And the reason, despite Lee Iacocca and maybe
President Bush, is most often not government trade barriers.
   How can we be sure? Consider restriction-free Singapore
and Hong Kong, among our best customers anywhere. Together,
they represented more than $14 billion in U.S. exports
through October. But American cars and trucks don't appear at
all on the Commerce Department's list of 40 leading U.S.
exports to either Singapore or Hong Kong. And neither, for
that matter, do cars make the top 40 list of U.S. exports to
Australia, New Zealand, Thailand, Malaysia, the Philippines,
Pakistan, India and Indonesia. Ditto for anywhere in Africa.
Too far away, you say? Well, U.S. cars are also not on the
list in Venezuela, Brazil and Argentina.
   Come on, Mr. Gephardt. Look at the facts before you rail.
When you do, you'll come up against the reality that Japan is
this country's second best customer -- more than $40 billion
through October, a bit higher than last year at this time.
Sure, the trade deficit is growing again, but with
three-quarters of that deficit accounted for by cars and car
parts, that just might be because Americans, like everyone
else, know a good deal on a car when they see it.
   ---
   Mr. Gordon, a professor of political science at the
University of New Hampshire, is a visiting professor at Kobe
University in Japan.