Plan for Allied
   And Federated
   Wins Approval
   ---
   Bankruptcy Judge Is to Clear
   Proposal for Emergence
   As a Combined Company
   ----
   By Jeffrey A. Trachtenberg
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Judge Aug said he will sign an order allowing the new
company, to be called Federated Department Stores Inc., to
emerge after some of the technical language in the legal
document is amended. His signature is expected as early as
today.
   All ties between Federated and Allied, and Toronto-based
Campeau Corp., their current owner, will be severed under the
plan. Canadian developer Robert Campeau acquired Allied and
Federated in the late 1980s for $9.9 billion. His namesake
company, however, will come out of the bankruptcy proceedings
with only $74.2 million of stock in a California supermarket
chain.
   The new national department store group will have $3
billion in debt and $2.1 billion of equity. Its eight
divisions will consist of Bloomingdale's; Jordan Marsh;
Burdines; Lazarus; Bon Marche; Stern's; Abraham  Straus, and
Rich's/Goldsmith's.
   The plan also calls for the new Federated to issue 79.4
million shares of common stock to creditors, including 19.9
million unrestricted shares that will be traded on the New
York Stock Exchange. Federated is also expected to attempt to
sell stock to the public in the next six to 12 months.
   "What this means is the culmination of two years of hard
work, and a new beginning for Federated and Allied under one
corporation," said Ronald Tysoe, vice chairman and chief
financial officer of Allied and Federated. "We are
comfortable with our debt and believe we will be able to
service it from existing cash flow."
   The new department store group will differ significantly
from the businesses Mr. Campeau originally acquired, in large
part because various specialty stores and mass merchandisers
have been sold or liquidated.
   Among the most prominent of those properties is Ralphs
Grocery Co., a Los Angeles-based chain of 150 supermarkets
which avoided filing for bankruptcy protection. As part of
the reorganization plan, however, 60.3% of Ralphs's stock
will be owned by the Edward J. DeBartolo Corp., a real estate
development company in Youngstown, Ohio, and 12.8% will go to
the Campeau Corp. Additional shares will be distributed to
other creditors.
   Management at Federated/Allied used the bankruptcy period
to announce the closing of 43 stores, including six Jordan
Marsh units. In addition, it merged its Maas Brothers/Jordan
Marsh department store chain into Miami-based Burdines.
Federated also consolidated its credit operations in suburban
Cincinnati, and implemented a team buying approach under
Federated/Allied Merchandising Services, which now
coordinates 60% of the company's purchases.
   "Federated is a more efficient business today, but there
may be more belt-tightening measures ahead," said Walter
Loeb, publisher of the Loeb Retail Letter. "This is a company
which will still have a lot of debt that needs to be worked
down quickly."
   Federated's biggest challenge, added Mr. Loeb, will be
generating strong revenue. Nationwide, for stores open at
least a year, 1991 sales at department stores were down 1% to
2%, compared to specialty stores, which were up 3% to 4%, and
discount stores, which were ahead 6% to 7%. "Department
stores as a group have lost momentum," said Mr. Loeb.
"Federated will need to be more careful in their buying in
order to be more profitable and to regain market share."