Crown Cork Says
   Van Dorn Rejected
   Its Bid for Concern
   ----
   By Suein L. Hwang
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The two companies have been talking for several weeks, and
the suitor said it had been seeking a merger on a "friendly,
negotiated basis." Crown Cork said it had contacted Van Dorn
President and Chief Executive Officer William G. Pryor in
December about a friendly merger and on Monday, Mr. Pryor
responded that the company wasn't for sale.
   As part of the proposed transaction, Crown Cork said it
would sell Van Dorn's plastic molding machinery segment to a
unit of Mannesmann AG, a German industrial group, under an
agreement already in place between Crown and Mannesmann. Van
Dorn's plastic molding machinery segment accounted for $105
million in sales in 1990, while its remaining containers
business reported sales of $210 million.
   Crown Chairman, President and Chief Executive William J.
Avery said he is optimistic that Van Dorn's board will
approve the offer after a "full consideration" of the
specific terms of Crown Cork's proposal, and he looks forward
to promptly negotiating and signing a merger agreement.
   Any definitive agreement is subject to the usual terms and
conditions, including Van Dorn stockholder approval,
regulatory approval and redemption of all Van Dorn rights
outstanding. The company said the agreement wouldn't contain
any financing conditions.
   Although the proposed acquisition isn't a particularly
large one, it does raise the possibility of a hostile
takeover -- something not often seen these days. Takeover
stock traders said it appeared that Crown Cork might be
prepared to wage a proxy fight at Van Dorn's annual meeting
in May if Van Dorn resists. One said the sale agreement with
Mannesman added to the bid's credibility.
   Craig R.L. Calle, vice president and treasurer of Crown
Cork declined to comment on the company's future intentions
if Van Dorn's Board turned down the proposal.
   If Crown Cork acquired Van Dorn, it would be the latest in
a number of purchases made this year to beef up its container
operations. Mr. Calle noted that Van Dorn's container
business is concentrated mostly in cans for processed foods
and paint, areas in which Crown Cork has only a "minimal"
presence.
   Last year, Crown Cork reported sales of $3.07 billion, up
from $1.91 billion the year before.