FASB Balks on Current-Market Rules
   For Banks as Member Switches His Vote
   ----
   By Lee Berton
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
When reached at his office at KPMG Peat Marwick, where he
retires as a partner next Monday to join the SEC as chief
accountant, Mr. Schuetze said, "I would like to hear the
reasons for what happened at the FASB and want to think about
the issues." He declined to say whether the SEC would take
any action.
   The delay occurred because FASB member James Leisenring
changed his vote on issuing the proposal, apparently becoming
convinced by some of the banks' objections to the new
standards.
   A major reason for SEC pressure in the investment-account
area is that some banks have cherry-picked their investment
securities accounts to produce "instant" profits, according
to some accountants and financial analysts. This is done by
selling securities that have risen in value while continuing
to hold -- at original value -- other securities that have
sharply declined in market value, they say.
   The FASB was scheduled to issue the investment-security
proposal in the first quarter and hold public hearings before
issuing a final rule late this year or early in 1993. The
chief rule-making body for accountants apparently had enough
votes, 42, to issue the proposal, FASB staff members said.
   But Mr. Leisenring took the FASB's staff and other FASB
members by surprise when he switched his vote to negative
from positive. This made the vote 3-3, not enough to issue
the proposal.
   After Mr. Leisenring changed his vote, Robert Swieringa,
another FASB member, told the FASB, "Leisenring launches a
Scud." Mr. Leisenring said he laughed but didn't respond.
   Robert Wilkins, FASB project manager for the proposal,
said "he was flabbergasted and surprised" by Mr. Leisenring's
vote change. "The staff had issued a draft of the proposal
which we had hoped to get out soon for exposure and public
hearings," Mr. Wilkins added. "I guess it means we have more
work to do before the board members are comfortable with this
proposed standard."
   Mr. Leisenring said in a telephone interview, "I think
that the banks have some reasonable arguments that we might
want to consider." He noted that Robert Northcutt will join
the FASB as the seventh member in March and also could oppose
the proposal. After Mr. Northcutt joins the FASB, a 5-2 vote
will be required to issue an accounting rule. Mr. Northcutt
couldn't be reached to comment.
   "To avoid wheel-spinning, I think the FASB should go back
to the drawing board and take another look at this proposal,"
Mr. Leisenring said. He said he believed the SEC wouldn't be
upset at this new approach.
   Mr. Leisenring also said that the FASB should consider
some suggestions of bankers, who have strongly opposed
valuing investment securities that are held as assets on the
balance sheet at current market prices.
   The bankers have asked that if assets are valued at
current market prices, that liabilities of banks -- including
checking and savings accounts, certificates of deposit and
debt issued by the bank -- also be marked to market. This
would help offset the decline in profits that current asset
valuations for investment securities could produce, according
to accountants.
   "But make no mistake, we still strongly disagree with
market-value accounting for investment securities," said
Donna Fischer, manager of accounting policy at the American
Bankers Association. She said that banks "applaud this delay
by the FASB and its willingness to look at the liability side
of the balance sheet." But she reiterated her position that
market-value accounting "is difficult to obtain, costly and
would be confusing to investors."
   Bankers also contend that requiring banks to mark
investment securities to market would produce wide
fluctuations in bank earnings. This might spur the banks to
buy shorter-term bonds that don't fluctuate as widely,
bankers add.
   Mr. Leisenring said that when the FASB takes another look
at this proposal, it should consider marking certain
liabilities to market such as certificates of deposit and the
bank's own debt. And he said that he had changed his mind
about booking the unrealized gains and losses from securities
held as investments to profits.
   "A good case could be made for booking such gains and
losses through equity," where it wouldn't affect profits, Mr.
Leisenring said.
   Timothy Lucas, the FASB's research director, said that the
FASB's staff opposes marking a bank's checking and savings
accounts to market on the liability side of the balance
sheet. That is because some banks sell these core deposits at
a discount, he noted.
   Mr. Lucas said that despite Mr. Leisenring's vote change,
"nothing I heard in the meeting {of the FASB yesterday}
suggests that the board is giving up on the project" of
marking investment securities to market.