International:
   Foster's Brewing of Australia Names
   New Chief, Raising Issue of Breakup
   ----
   By S. Karene Witcher
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Directors said Mr. Kunkel, 48 years old, who has had a
longtime association with the Australian brewer, "will
provide management continuity" at Foster's. They said that
Mr. Bartels "initiated" his own resignation and that it won't
"alter the company's outlook, its commitment to maximizing
value for all shareholders and its strategy" to concentrate
on brewing by divesting itself of non-brewing assets.
   Still, some analysts are wary of what the management
change may portend. Mr. Kunkel "will come under a greater
degree of pressure to look after the larger shareholders,"
says Viktor Shvets, an analyst at Baring Securities
(Australia) Ltd.
   Among the largest shareholders are Asahi Breweries Ltd. of
Japan, with about 20%, and International Brewing Holdings
Pty., a closely held company associated with Australian
entrepreneur and former Foster's chief executive John
Elliott. International Brewing controls about 38% of Foster's
and has three seats on Foster's 10-member board, including
the one held by Mr. Elliott.
   International Brewing, formerly known as Harlin Holdings
Pty., made an abortive takeover bid for Foster's in 1989 that
left International Brewing saddled with more than two billion
Australian dollars (US$1.51 billion) in borrowings. Now,
International Brewing's sole source of revenue is dividends
from Foster's shares, and they fall far short of covering its
interest bills. To help plug the cash gap, insiders said that
Mr. Elliott has suggested breaking up the brewing operations
and making a capital return to shareholders. At the top of
his asset-sales list, they said, is Foster's British arm,
Courage Ltd., a major British brewer.
   Squeezed for cash, International Brewing has been
agitating for a bigger Foster's dividend, which insiders said
Mr. Bartels in particular opposed. For that and other
reasons, tension had grown between Messrs. Bartels and
Elliott and between Mr. Bartels and Foster's chairman, Neil
Clark.
   Since market talk of a possible management change began
circulating about a week ago, Foster's shares have slipped
3.5% in a weaker stock market. They closed at A$1.91 each
ahead of Tuesday's announcement, down one Australian cent
from the previous day's close.
   In Tokyo, Asahi Breweries officials weren't available for
comment. But last month, the Japanese brewer, which Tokyo
analysts said also is hard-pressed for cash, joined with Mr.
Elliott in arguing for a higher dividend. So despite a 24%
drop to A$77 million in Foster's after-tax earnings --
adjusted for extraordinary items -- for the first half of the
year ending June 30, directors declared a dividend of three
cents a share, equal to 87% of Foster's profit. By
comparison, the company paid 2.5 cents for the year-earlier
half and omitted the final dividend.
   People familiar with the situation said that Asahi
executives have assured Foster's officials that even though
they want higher dividends, the Japanese brewer isn't so cash
needy -- at least at the moment -- that it would push to
break up Foster's.
   Meanwhile, Molson said John Carroll, 58, was named
executive chairman of Molson Breweries, the Molson-Foster's
venture, succeeding Mr. Kunkel. Mr. Carroll currently is
president and chief executive of Molson Breweries (Canada).
Bruce Pope, 44, succeeds Mr. Carroll.