India Is Allowing
   Companies to Issue
   Equity Abroad
   ----
   By Suman Dubey
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
Although foreign investors already have access to Indian
equities through several offshore country funds, the plan
approved Friday marks the first time that foreign nationals,
other than nonresident Indians, will be allowed to invest in
Indian companies. It also marks the first time that Indian
securities will be traded abroad.
   Under the plan, Indian companies will issue convertible
debentures denominated in foreign currencies or global
depositary receipts, which are traded like stock. However,
these securities will carry a two-year lock-in period,
meaning that while they may be traded abroad as soon as they
are issued, they won't be redeemable in India for two years.
   The Indian program is also likely to include a 10%
withholding tax on dividends and a 10% withholding tax on
capital gains, officials said.
   Reliance Industries Ltd., an Indian maker of synthetic
fibers, yarn and textiles, has applied for permission to
raise $200 million by issuing convertible securities abroad.
"From the time the green signal is given, we will need three
months to be in the market," said Mathew Panikar, the London
representative of Reliance.
   Reliance, which wants to be first off the mark, is talking
with Morgan Stanley Group Inc., Credit Suisse First Boston
and Shearson Lehman Brothers Inc., among other securities
firms, but Mr. Panikar said Reliance has yet to select a lead
manager for the proposed issue.
   Reliance, which had sales of about $720 million in 1990,
has petrochemical projects on the drawing board that will
require imports of capital goods. Reliance is seeking to
issue securities abroad because under Mr. Rao's policies, new
ventures receive automatic approval if their capital-goods
imports are financed with equity.
   Reliance already has about 22,000 nonresident Indian
investors. Under the new regulations, its convertible
securities will be listed on the London or Luxembourg stock
exchanges.
   Another company awaiting permission to issue securities
abroad is India's largest private-sector company, Tata Iron 
Steel Co., or Tisco, which had sales of about $840 million in
1990. Last month, Tisco's board approved a resolution
permitting it to raise $100 million abroad. The company has
undertaken a huge modernization of its steel plant at
Jamshedpur in Bihar state.