LEISURE  ARTS -- Television:
   Brown Vs. the Senate
   ----
   By Dorothy Rabinowitz
The difference in the way these two sitcoms dealt with the
theme doesn't only reflect the difference between artful,
classic comedy writing (i.e. "The Mary Tyler Moore Show") and
the other kind. It tells us, as though we didn't already
know, how completely journalists and journalism have moved
into the role of culture heroes. To listen to the oratory
pouring forth from this "Murphy Brown" episode is to
recognize the astounding level of piety and deluded devotion
that journalists and journalism now command in the media as a
whole. Out there in the great world, people may turn ever
more hostile to the giants who bring them the nightly news,
but still, the portraying of newspeople as heroes of the age
engaged in sacred toil continues with unrelenting regularity.
   So here was Murphy Brown, single and big with child as
befits a heroine of the '90s, pressed to yield up her news
sources. What an opportunity. Nose twitching just a bit, as
Candice Bergen's nose tends to do in moments of high
earnestness, Murphy delivers impassioned testimonials to the
First Amendment, the sacred principles of journalism. When
not thus busily engaged, she and the rest of the news team
exchange warnings about the congressional enemies of freedom
now closing in for the attack. Murphy's resident house
painter, Eldon, reflects that, just as democracy is catching
on in the rest of the world, it is disappearing here. The
picture is clear: The only sentinels between us and the dark
night of fascism about to descend on us and our posterity are
our journalists.
   James L. Brooks and his team of "Mary Tyler Moore" writers
dealt with the prison-or-sources theme in different terms --
very different. Mary and her WJM colleagues out there in the
Twin Cities didn't sit around telling us how it was two
minutes to midnight for American democracy, unless we
recognized that journalists are our shield and defenders
against the barbarians at the gate. The episode made its
point without speechifying, and by packing a frightened Mary
off to jail, without sacrificing comedy. Also, though this is
but a detail, Mary wasn't pregnant, nor did her nose twitch.
   In her final big scene Murphy tells the congressional
panel that she was prepared to give up her sources, what with
being a pregnant lady and all, until she realized that would
undermine the resolve of her colleagues in all future
struggles to preserve our freedoms. (Our fictional
journalists, like our real ones, are not given to
underestimating the importance of their roles.) She also
tells the senators she figured out that giving in was just
what they wanted, in order to "keep us at bay."
   This is some world picture. Someone should tell the
writers of "Murphy Brown" that senators and members of
Congress spend a lot of time cosseting reporters, especially
the hostile ones, and that they wouldn't know how to operate
without a press to leak to.
   The program had its redeeming satiric moments toward the
end, but too few too late. In any contest between satire and
piety, the wrong side always wins, especially on TV. Still,
an episode like this can be useful, particularly in an
election year, as a reminder of the more remarkable fantasies
about the press that have come to prevail in the world now.
   If "The Mary Tyler Moore Show" of the '70s seems by
contrast a universe removed in tone and style, what are we to
say of the current season's shows that are set in the '50s?
The better question is why those shows -- "Brooklyn Bridge"
and "I'll Fly Away" -- though not ratings winners have proved
to be works of such exceptional quality. It may simply be
that the writers who connect with the past are most likely to
have talent and imagination and, maybe we should add,
education. "I'll Fly Away" (a title drawn from a spiritual)
has just returned to the air from a hiatus (Fridays, 10-11
p.m., on NBC). The series, created and produced by Joshua
Brand and John Falsey ("St. Elsewhere," "Northern Exposure")
is set in the South of the late '50s, as the churnings of the
civil rights movement begin.
   The hero, Forrest (Sam Waterston), is a white lawyer drawn
along lines that will be familiar to readers of "To Kill a
Mockingbird" -- only much, much more interesting than the
lawyer played by Gregory Peck in the 1962 film version of the
book. Regina Taylor, as Forrest's housekeeper, Lily, is a
quiet and steely observer, preparing for the changes that
must come. She brings great subtlety and dimension to this
role, which is, first and foremost, that of an individual,
rather than a symbol. Mr. Waterston, who has never been
better, is utterly masterful as he juggles roles of father,
lawyer, politician, lover.
   These performances, along with Marion Ross's as Sophie in
"Brooklyn Bridge" and Michael Moriarty's as a prosecutor in
"Law and Order," add up to a lot of serious acting taking
place on network prime time. Some serious writing too. The
great achievement of "I'll Fly Away" is its commitment to
character, its insistence on nuance and its avoidance of
extreme portraits, whether of bigotry or heroism. Character,
in this sense, is also what works.
   When Lily decides to try registering to vote, the
resistance she meets at the election bureau is cool and
guarded. Nothing brings home, more piercingly, the fear and
enmity surrounding her than the polite and confused faces and
tones of the whites in that registry office.
   The creators of "I'll Fly Away" seem to be the only
television writers dealing with race to have discovered that
fine distinctions make fine drama.