El Paso Electric's Situation Gets Worse
   ---
   As Utility Faces Bankruptcy,
   Pressure to Reorganize Mounts
   ----
   By Ann de Rouffignac
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
To be sure, El Paso's lenders have an obvious interest in
trying to work through this crisis with the company. In the
event of a bankruptcy, the banks would only get around 50
cents to the dollar, estimates Dan Scotto, a utilities
analyst with Donaldson Lufkin & Jenrette.
   On Friday, the company received an extension until Jan. 31
on about $400 million of bank loans and letters of credit
that had been due Dec. 31 and Jan. 2. But the company didn't
make its lease payments of $20 million due Jan. 2 -- taking
advantage of a five-day grace period ending Thursday.
   The utility has survived so far because creditors have
granted extensions and waivers keeping it out of default. But
even El Paso officials say they aren't sure how long that
will last. Wall Street isn't sure either, says Mr. Scotto.
   In closing national over-the-counter trading Friday, El
Paso rose 25 cents to $4. In late October, it traded as high
as $6.375.
   The company suspended its common stock dividend in June
1989 and suspended its preferred dividend payment on Sept.
23. 1991. At that time it said the latter suspension was
expected to be in effect until at least 1993.
   For the first nine months of 1991, the company posted a
loss of $20.3 million, or 75 cents a share, on revenue of
$329.3 million. El Paso has been operating in the red for two
years.
   The city of El Paso has already given up on keeping the
utility afloat. When Governor Ann Richards of Texas attempted
to intervene on behalf of El Paso Electric to secure
financing from New York banks, El Paso Mayor William Tilney
discouraged the governor from giving any more help to the
utility.
   In a Dec. 30 letter to the governor, Mayor Tilney wrote
that "rate payers are in no mood to pay higher electric rates
and many have stated that bankruptcy would be preferable to
the continuing saga that has impacted so negatively upon our
community." Mr. Tilney emphasized to the governor that even
if financing is arranged, the company's problems won't go
away. The city is forming a task force to consider buying El
Paso Electric's distribution system and then purchase power
from other utilities.
   The utility's troubles are a compilation of those shared
by troubled utilities across the country in recent years:
investing in a nuclear power plant whose costs escalated out
of control, write-offs of funds sunk into defunct savings and
loans adventures and doomed commercial real estate projects.
Other woes included the indictment of an executive on a fraud
charge.
   All this leaves the 244,000 customers of El Paso Electric
in West Texas and New Mexico reeling with a string of rate
increases and the more recent prospect that their power
company may go broke or change hands.
   Financing needed for the debt obligations overdue but now
extended include $150 million revolving credit; $207 million
to reimburse banks when letters of credit were drawn last
week; $35 million of other debt; and $5.7 million of a fuel
oil financing trust.
   If the company doesn't pay the $20 million of lease
payments due on its sale of lease backs of Palo Verde nuclear
units Unit 2 and 3 near Phoenix, before Thursday, it will be
in default, said Donaldson Lufkin's Mr. Scotto. "If the
rental payments are not made, then another class of creditors
will be dragged into the restructuring negotiations lessening
the chances of an easily achieved reorganization and
increasing the prospects of bankruptcy," he said.
   The utility is depending on the outcome of a hearing
scheduled on Wednesday before the commmission to consider El
Paso Electric's motions to rehear parts of the recent rate
case it lost.
   According to company documents, the utility staked its
capacity to obtain longterm financing on the income it had
hoped for in its most recent rate defeat in October.
   In that request, the company sought a rate base increase
of $131.3 million, but the commission slashed that to $52
million. The company protests that just isn't enough,
asserting it needs $82.4 million for one expense alone: to
cover costs of Unit 3 of the Palo Verde Nuclear Generating
Station. But the commission disallowed $32 million of the
requested nuclear costs recovery.
   El Paso Electric's nuclear facility has more capacity than
its local customers can use, the commission said. The utility
sells some power generated by its nuclear plants to customers
in Mexico and California. Thus, it shouldn't include costs of
the extra capacity until the power is demanded locally, the
commission ruled.
   Although the commission plans to allow El Paso Electric to
gradually phase-in rate increases over five years to cover
costs of Unit 3 of Palo Verde, the company estimates it will
have to incur write-offs totaling as much as $70 million if
the plan is implemented.
   The company's troubles also include the indictment last
June as one of seven companies charged with defrauding
purchasers of annuities sold by certain insurance units of
First Financial Enterprises Inc., a holding company based in
El Paso. El Paso Electric also bought the annuities -- valued
at about $120 million -- but it is accused of arranging
recovery of much of its money when smaller investors
couldn't.
   If El Paso Electric goes bankrupt, it will only be the
second time since the depression that a utility failed.
Public Service of New Hampshire filed for protection under
Chapter 11 of U.S. Bankruptcy Code in 1988. Authorities are
currently considering a merger between New Hampshire and
Northeast Utilities, said a New Hampshire spokeswoman.
   Customers of El Paso Electric could be worse off with a
bankrupt utility if the judge puts their interests after
creditors -- which attorneys say is likely.