California's Rating
   On Bond Issues
   Is Cut by Moody's
   ----
   By Carrie Dolan
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
In December, Standard  Poor's Corp. lowered its rating on
California's public debt to double-A from the top ranking of
triple-A because of doubts about the state's handling of its
ballooning deficit. State officials estimate that California
could face a deficit of $5 billion or more by June 30, the
end of the current fiscal year. "Wall Street is sending
California a clear message: Get your house in order," said
state Controller Gray Davis.
   In lowering its rating, Moody's said that while some of
California's current fiscal woes are due to the recession,
they also "reflect long-term pressures that will make it
difficult to regain the degree of financial stability"
California once held. Moody's cited the "magnitude of the
state's infrastructure needs and other spending demands of a
rapidly growing population." The state currently has about 30
million residents.
   California has been struggling to deal with increasing
demands on its social services and revenue that is falling
short of expectations. The state also faces financial
pressure from programs mandated but not funded by the federal
government and spending decisions made by voter initiatives.
   Still, Moody's said it "doesn't subscribe to the view that
the state is entering a period of severe long-term decline"
and doesn't expect "recent job loss or social service
caseload trends to continue unabated."
   The downgrade will increase the interest cost on new debt
issued by the state by five basis points, or hundredths of a
percentage point. California plans to issue about $11 billion
of bonds in the next three years, according to state
Treasurer Kathleen Brown. The higher cost on that amount
would result in an additional $80 million in debt service
over the 20-year life of the bonds, or about $4 million a
year.
   Current holders of state bonds may see their value drop by
as much as 0.5%, Ms. Brown's office said, a loss of nearly
$74 million to market bondholders.