Technology  Medicine:
   Dow Corning Disputes Link of Implants
   And Immune Diseases at FDA Hearing
   ----
   By Scott McMurray
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The panel is focusing on whether silicone implants are
linked to immune-type diseases, as a number of doctors and
researchers have suggested, as well as the extent to which
the devices rupture and bleed silicone into women's bodies.
   While Dow Corning minimized any such link, Norman D.
Anderson, an adviser to the FDA panel, maintained that an
earlier animal study by the implant maker showed a greater
immune system response to silicone than the company has
suggested.
   Another FDA panel advisor, Marc A. Lappe, a medical
professor at the University of Illinois at Chicago, added
that the company in another study didn't appear to pay enough
attention to the damage caused by silicone found in the liver
and lungs of animals. A Dow Corning study in 1978 also showed
an immune reaction in animals 180 days after silicone was
implanted, he added.
   "It's material like this that raises the concern, if not
the specter, of further longterm damage in women" who have
had silicone leak into their bodily tissue, Dr. Lappe said.
"If there is anything that scientists will agree on, it is
that there is something about this silicone material that at
least in some people provokes a profound reaction."
   Mr. Anderson added that he wasn't satisfied that Dow
Corning research to date has answered all the panel's
questions about the safety of implants. "I'd like answers,
and the American public would like answers," he declared. Mr.
Anderson, an associate professor at the Johns Hopkins
University medical school, was a voting member of the panel
when it met last fall to weigh implant safety. He was later
demoted to consultant status after implant advocates
complained that his public criticism of Dow Corning meant
that he had prejudged the issue.
   The chairman of Dow Corning's health care businesses,
Robert Rylee, told the panel that "state-of-the-art studies
conducted by Dow Corning in 1989 and 1990, specifically
targeted at immune response, showed no systemic reaction."
   Robert R. LeVier, Dow Corning's technical director for
health care, said in response to criticism of its portrayal
of implant research, "I'm aware that people may think there
is a larger reaction." Scientists can differ in interpreting
such data, he said. He added: "Do these issues need study?
Sure, we don't disagree with that."
   He reiterated that the company, a joint venture of Dow
Chemical Co. and Corning Inc., has further, much more
extensive, research under way to gauge the safety of
implants.
   In a related development, Dow Corning said it is
establishing a Women's Council to advise it on programs it
can provide for women with Dow Corning implants, and restated
an earlier pledge to pay for the removal of implants if a
woman can't afford such surgery and her doctor says it is in
her best interests.
   Other implant makers also stressed to the FDA panel that
their research had found no evidence linking immune or other
related and equally rare diseases with silicone implants. A
researcher for McGhan Medical Corp., a unit of Inamed Corp.,
said that "any connection between silicone implants and
auto-immune diseases is likely to be coincidental rather than
a cause-and-effect relationship." Similar conclusions were
expressed by officials of Mentor Corp. and Bioplasty Inc.,
which also make the devices.
   The debate turned personal as Rep. Marilyn Lloyd, a
Tennessee Democrat who underwent breast cancer surgery last
summer, attacked Dr. Kessler and the FDA for not letting her
or other women make an informed choice as to whether they
should get an implant. Ms. Lloyd and others say that women
should be allowed to sign an informed-consent agreement with
their surgeons that fully states the known risks associated
with silicone-gel implants.
   "This decision cannot be based on a biased evaluation of
an FDA that has demonstrated to date an inability to deal
with this issue on a scientific basis," she said.
   During the initial day of hearings Tuesday, several
doctors told the panel of numerous cases of immune-type
diseases, such as scleroderma and lupus, that plagued
patients with silicone-gel implants. A number of the doctors,
including Frank B. Vasey, a Tampa, Fla. rheumatologist,
claimed the patients improved markedly when the implants were
removed.
   A neurologist, Bernard Patten of Baylor University in
Houston, said that he had seen seven patients with implants
who also had the rare degenerative neurological disease
popularly known as Lou Gehrig's disease. One appeared to
improve dramatically after removal of her silicone-gel
implants, even though the disease is widely thought to be
irreversible, Dr. Patten noted.
   Implant supporters dismissed these and other examples as
unscientific anecdotal evidence. "The time has come to get
down to science," said Noel Rose, chairman of the immunology
department at Johns Hopkins University's school of public
health. Complicating the issue, both sides agreed, is the
fact that no one knows exactly how many women have implants.
Estimates range from about one million to 1.5 million.
   The companies also countered assertions by researchers
that implants appear to rupture as much as 5% of the time,
compared with industry estimates of less than 1% of the time.
And the two sides remained at odds over the extent and
significance of gel "bleeding" through implant envelopes into
women's tissue.