Russian Psychiatrist
   Tries to Make Sure
   Cosmonaut Stays Up
   ---
   But the Last Soviet Is Down
   About His Long Flight;
   An Odd Victim of Politics
   ----
   By Adi Ignatius
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Dr. Slyed is Russia's psychiatrist to the stars, the
psychological link to the two cosmonauts aboard the Mir space
station orbiting high above his office at Spaceflight Control
Center outside Moscow.
   It's never an easy job, and these days it's particularly
delicate. Mr. Krikalev, who has been in space for eight
months, is dying to come home to be with his wife and
two-year-old daughter and to see the enormous changes that
have taken place in his country.
   But space officials pressured Mr. Krikalev, a flight
engineer, to agree to remain for another four months in what
cosmonauts refer to as the "tin can." How does Mr. Krikalev
feel about that? "He isn't exactly thrilled," says the
doctor. "Let's just say he's nostalgic."
   On May 18, 1991, when the cosmonaut left the planet,
Mikhail Gorbachev still ruled something called the Soviet
Union. Communism held sway. Prices were low. Ukraine was
called "The Ukraine." And Mr. Krikalev's hometown was named
Leningrad. It's St. Petersburg now.
   Today, Mr. Krikalev, whose uniform bears the insignia
"U.S.S.R.," is the last Soviet. He has a colleague in the
space station -- flight commander Alexander Volkov -- but Mr.
Volkov just rocketed in last October. Mr. Krikalev "will have
big problems adapting when he gets back to earth, especially
dealing with the market economy," says Dr. Slyed.
"Emotionally, I doubt he's ready for this."
   When anti-reform elements in Moscow launched the coup
attempt in August, Mr. Krikalev, 32, was noticeably upset.
After hearing the news, he refused to make contact with
mission control for two consecutive orbits. Finally, Mr.
Krikalev spoke in a bitter, metallic tone. "Yes," he said.
"We've heard the news."
   That piece of conversation was easy for Dr. Slyed to
interpret: "How could you jokers on earth have allowed this
to happen?" But it's not always so simple. Every 90 minutes,
traveling at a speed of 14,000 miles an hour, the Mir
completes an orbit and comes into contact with ground
control. For just 10 minutes or so, there is phone contact,
and then nothing for another 90 minutes. Mr. Krikalev has
made about 4,200 orbits so far.
   "As a psychiatrist, you have to develop a sensitivity to
sound and intonation," says Dr. Slyed. "Normally, you see
people and you get information from their body language and
appearance. We have to compensate, like blind people do. It's
an art form, really."
   And an important one, too. Soviet officials discovered how
important when they had to bring a pair of cosmonauts home
early during a flight in the '70s. They fought "like a cat
and a dog," Dr. Slyed says, and finally one declared: "If you
don't bring us down to earth now, I'm not going to work with
this corpse any more."
   Sitting in the vast control room, Dr. Slyed listens to
every word from the cosmonauts. He makes judgments about
their visual memory and their capacity for logic. He advises
commanders on what experiments the cosmonauts can handle that
day. He also has access to a soundproof room, in which he can
speak privately with the cosmonauts. He does that only about
twice a week, though. "People in the space center get all
worried if they see the psychiatrist talking to the
cosmonauts for long," he explains.
   During his sessions, the cosmonauts generally don't take
well to direct questions about their problems. So Dr. Slyed
tries indirect routes, opening a conversation, for example,
with an observation such as, "Boy, the weather in Moscow sure
is crummy." If the cosmonauts leap in -- "Things are bad
here, too" -- the session is under way.
   Boredom is a big problem. The two men work most of their
waking hours, taking some time off for meals and a spin on
the exercycle. "Free time basically consists of looking out
the window," says Victor Blagov, deputy director of the space
flight. For kicks, Mr. Krikalev sometimes entertains TV
viewers at ground control by squeezing his coffee out of its
tube. It forms a ball and hangs in front of him until he
moves forward to gulp it down.
   There is particular concern about Mr. Krikalev because of
the unusual length of his flight. Mr. Blagov says it
generally takes three months just to get used to things. The
initial sensation, he says, is of being in a bottomless
elevator shaft after the cable breaks. The next three months
are the best. "The cosmonaut gets the sense that he is in
heaven," Dr. Slyed says. "He closes his eyes and knows
exactly where his instruments are. He looks down at earth and
knows where everything on the planet is."
   But soon after, problems begin to develop. "The constant
anticipation that something bad is going to happen begins to
work at their subconscious," says Dr. Slyed. "Every one of
them knows that three millimeters separates him from a
vacuum. If, God forbid, those three millimeters were to be
punctured, there is basically nothing that could save them."
   As a result, six months in space is considered optimal.
But Mr. Krikalev's desire to return fell victim to political
and economic pressures.
   The political pressure originates in Kazakhstan, the
former Soviet republic that is the base for much of the space
program. Even as Mr. Krikalev orbited the earth, the leader
of Kazakhstan pressured Russia to send the first Kazakh
cosmonaut to space. So a flight was hastily arranged in
October, which normally would have included cosmonauts to
relieve those on the Mir. Unfortunately, because of the big
rush, there wasn't time to find an engineer to replace Mr.
Krikalev.
   So Mr. Krikalev's original partner in space came home. The
Kazakh cosmonaut just went up and came right back down. And
Mr. Volkov, who flew into space with the Kazakh, remained at
the Mir station. So did Mr. Krikalev.
   It would cost perhaps $3 million to send a rocket to get
Mr. Krikalev. That's a lot of money to the Russian space
program, which is actively courting U.S. investment to
overcome its cash woes. While Mr. Blagov insists that Russia
would send up a rescue rocket, the pressure on Mr. Krikalev
to stay is strong. "He doesn't want to hurt his chances of
continuing to work in this field," says his wife, Elena
Teryokhina, who speaks to her husband about once a week.
   Mr. Krikalev did, however, negotiate a deal: He agreed to
stay longer in return for permission to undertake another
space walk. Normally, cosmonauts are permitted to perform the
dangerous, but prestigious, walks only once per flight. Mr.
Krikalev will soon do his second.
   If all goes well, Mr. Krikalev will finally return to
earth in springtime, barely missing the record of 366 days in
space set by two cosmonauts in 1987-88. There was little
fanfare when Mr. Krikalev took off, and there will likely be
even less when he lands. He'll probably touch down in the
barren fields in Kazakhstan, where he'll be met by a small
group of family members and officials, who will put him in a
wheelchair and take him away for observation.