Judge Puts Preliminary Ban on Logging
   In Some U.S.-Owned Owl-Habitat Forests
   ----
   By Charles McCoy
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The ruling marks yet another court setback for the
government in the seemingly endless tussle over the owl,
which has come to symbolize the increasingly bitter national
fight over wildlife protection's impact on economic growth.
It comes as a closely watched special task force headed by
Interior Secretary Manuel Lujan draws closer to announcing a
decision on whether to roll back separate owl-related logging
restrictions on other BLM timberlands. The committee,
popularly called the "God Squad," can remove protection from
an endangered species if the economic consequences of
protecting it are deemed too disruptive to humans; the
"squad" has rarely been convened, and only once has it
overturned protection of a species.
   Although the latest ruling doesn't directly affect the
outcome of the committee's deliberations, it adds weight to
environmentalist contentions that the BLM's timber policies
are illegal and thus shouldn't even be subject to review by
the special committee. The judge held that the plaintiffs
have shown "a likelihood" that they would win at trial on
allegations that the BLM violated the National Environmental
Policy Act by not preparing adequate environmental-impact
statements before allowing logging on lands inhabited by the
owl.
   "A basic requirement from an agency that wants an
exemption {from protecting a species} is that the agency has
complied with existing laws," said Todd True, senior attorney
for the Sierra Club Legal Defense Fund, which is representing
the plaintiffs in the Portland lawsuit. "The judge has said
it's likely the BLM has not complied with the law."
   Ed Ciliberti, spokesman for the BLM in Portland,
emphasized that the judge's ruling isn't final. "We still
have our day in court, and we think we'll present a strong
case," he said.
   Attorneys in the Portland case expect Judge Frye to
complete hearings on the merits of the suit and deliver a
final judgment within 90 days.
   The ruling's immediate impact is to prohibit any logging
of about 360.5 million board feet of timber on 13,620 acres
in Oregon. Ultimately, if the judge enters a final ruling
against the BLM, the agency probably will have to prepare
detailed environmental-impact statements and fulfill other
requirements of environmental laws before allowing logging on
its acreage. Logging on BLM lands would almost certainly be
reduced far below past levels.
   The ruling adds to the government's almost uninterrupted
record of losses in the legal wrangling over the remnants of
the nation's old-growth forests. A Seattle federal judge
ruled last year in a separate case that the Forest Service
had repeatedly violated federal environmental and
forest-management laws, jeopardizing the owl's existence.
That ruling and others have forced the government to
designate almost seven million acres in the Pacific Northwest
as prime owl habitat, part or all of which could be subject
to logging restrictions.