Chemical Banking
   Merger Is Raising
   Consumers' Fees
   ----
   By Peter Pae
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
But in setting new pricing for its consumer products and
services, Chemical turned more often to the higher fees of
the two banks, thus increasing costs for most consumers.
   "It appears they're going to the higher end of the scale,"
said Glenn VonNostitz, assistant commissioner for New York
City's consumer affairs department. "It shows that there
won't be a decline in fees and little competition in the New
York area."
   But Chemical customers aren't alone. A number of studies,
including one by the Federal Reserve, note that after
mergers, consumers ended up paying more for services,
particularly in unions that led to fewer players in a
particular market. The Chemical merger created the
second-largest bank in the U.S., pushing Chemical ahead of
Chase Manhattan Corp. as the second-biggest consumer bank in
the New York area, behind Citicorp.
   In particular, customers of the old Chemical, which had
been one of the lower-priced banks in New York, will find
service fees similiar to higher fees charged by Citicorp and
Chase.
   "The savings from increased efficiency as a result of
mergers benefit shareholders and investors," said Peggy
Miller, banking analyst with Consumer Federation of America,
a nonprofit consumer advocacy group. "Consumers don't end up
with much."
   Chemical officials, however, insisted that the new fee
structure was "revenue neutral" and that the bank would not
gain any additional profits from the changes. "We're not
trying to choose the higher price in every case, and in fact,
we didn't," said John J. Stack, head of domestic branch
operations.
   He noted, for example, that some old Chemical customers
will benefit from the addition of the new "regular" checking
account that halves the minimum balance requirement to $1,500
before a penalty fee is assessed. Previously, a Chemical
customer would have been assessed a monthly fee of $8
whenever his or her checking balance fell below $3,000. The
minimum balance required at Chase and Citicorp is $3,000.
   On the other hand, the penalty fee for falling below the
minimum balance requirement rose to $9.50, higher than what
Citicorp and Chase charge. As well, Manufacturers customers
who had the so-called relationship checking account --
checking linked to savings or money market accounts -- will
have until the end of the year to boost their minimum balance
to $3,000 from $1,500 to avoid paying a $9.50 monthly fee.
   Despite the higher prices, banking experts said Chemical
is unlikely to lose many customers. They note that most
often, consumers look for location of the facility and the
quality of service rather than cost. "I could go to another
bank, but I'm not going to walk another 10 blocks to save a
buck," said Mr. VonNostitz.