The SEC Proposes
   Tightening Reins
   On 17,000 Advisers
   ----
   By Kevin G. Salwen
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The debate over investment advisers heightened last month
after the SEC and federal prosecutors charged a California
adviser, Institutional Treasury Management Inc., and its
chief, Steven Wymer, with defrauding municipalities of tens
of millions of dollars. Even before those charges, however,
SEC officials had testified before Congress about the
agency's inability to police the massive and fast-growing
adviser community.
   SEC Chairman Breeden has said that the program is so
underfunded that small advisers are inspected by the SEC an
average of only once every 30 years, unless some problem
arises to attract agency attention.
   Mr. Breeden estimated that in the past 10 years, assets
managed by advisers have grown tenfold and the number of
advisers has grown three to four times. The legislation
probably wouldn't deal with what investment industry
officials consider to be an equally large problem -- people
who offer investment advice but don't register with the SEC
as advisers.
   Last year, the General Accounting Office identified yet
another problem with the industry, contending in a report to
Congress that SEC regulation might do more harm than good
because advisers who file with the agency often tout that as
a stamp of approval for their business.
   Even with all that evidence, legislators have failed to
back earlier bills to better regulate the industry. Rep. Rick
Boucher (D., Va.) has for several years pushed measures that
would have required investment advisers to inform clients
exactly how they are paid and would have barred advisers from
misrepresenting their qualifications. Those measures also
would have allowed clients to sue advisers in the event of
fraud.
   But the bills were mowed down by opposition from lawyers,
accountants, stockbrokers and others who sell financial
products. They worried that the bills would create a legal
definition of who is an investment adviser, while at the same
time not acknowledging thousands of others who sell
investment products, such as lawyers and insurance agents.
   This year, the SEC and backers of the legislation are
using the emotional Wymer case as a lever for the issue. In
that case, small towns, city school districts and pension
funds invested with Mr. Wymer, who allegedly promised hefty
returns on government securities. Mr. Wymer's lawyers have
denied any wrongdoing by their client.
   Staffers for the House Telecommunications and Finance
Subcommittee are piecing together a package of proposals that
would raise fees on advisers, provide better information to
customers and encourage state regulators to develop statutes
to regulate financial planners, who also would be defined
differently from advisers. Hearings on the legislative plan
are expected to be held this spring.
   The effort is likely to get a boost from the SEC, which is
now actively working on its own plan. One idea that appears
now to be out of favor is establishing a "self-regulatory
organization" similar to the National Association of
Securities Dealers to regulate the advisers. Instead, Mr.
Breeden told the Senate Securities Subcommittee yesterday
that the SEC would like to take on the responsibility itself,
doubling or tripling its current staff of 140 that monitors
both advisers and the mutual fund industry.
   To pay for the program, advisers would pay fees that the
SEC chairman estimated would range from "a couple hundred
dollars a year" to more for advisers with larger assets under
management.