LEISURE  ARTS:
   `Art of Fugue': States of Play
   ----
   By Barbara Jepson
Another attraction is the work's sheer inventiveness.
Begun several years before his death, "The Art of the Fugue"
is a summation of counterpoint. Bach starts with a neutral
12-note theme and then runs with it, expanding, contracting
or inverting it in a variety of ways as he constructs simple
fugues, double fugues, triple fugues, four two-part canons
and the incomplete quadruple fugue -- themes on top of themes
on top of themes. Says Samuel Rhodes, violist of the
Juilliard String Quartet, which presented the work here
recently: "It's like playing all the late Beethoven quartets
in one concert." But the biggest challenge is to find a
viable solution for the work's chief problem: Bach wrote as
many as four independent musical lines but he never bothered
to say what instruments he meant them for. Indeed, many
scholars believe he didn't have any specific instruments in
mind but intended "The Art of the Fugue" as a purely
theoretical treatise. Perhaps that is why it may not have
been performed publicly until the early part of this century.
   Since then, however, it has been recorded by everyone from
keyboard players and brass quintets to mixed chamber
ensembles, full orchestras and even two saxophone quartets.
Two of my favorites are pianist Zoltan Kocsis's vibrant
performance on Philips (Glenn Gould, alas, recorded only
about half of the work, and he did it on the organ, which to
me renders it a bit ponderous) and the CD reissue of
conductor Hermann Scherchen's insightful if old-fashioned
orchestral transcription on the Accord label, which rounds
off the phrases so much it winds up sounding like a baroque
concerto.
   Each of these performers has had to make fundamental
decisions about the way he plays "The Art of the Fugue."
Scholars disagree about the order and numbering of the works,
and some even think the last, unfinished fugue was supposed
to be a separate entity. Most significantly, those playing
arrangements of the piece must transpose their parts up an
octave or bring in another performer when the music exceeds
the range of their instruments.
   Six years ago, after playing the work for the first time
at its Library of Congress series in Washington, D.C., the
Juilliard elected to take an unusual approach. "Rather than
fit the music to our instruments," says Mr. Rhodes, "we
decided to fit our instruments to the music."
   The performers asked Marten Cornelissen, the respected
Massachusetts luthier, to create a slightly longer viola that
could play a fourth lower than the standard version. Mr.
Rhodes is thus able to play the "tenor" line exactly as Bach
wrote it, and Joel Smirnoff, the quartet's second violinist,
switches to the viola whenever the "alto" part journeys
beyond the normal violin range. The group's recording of "The
Art of the Fugue" is scheduled for release by Sony Classical
next month.
   It should reflect the quartet's recent eye-opening
performance at the Juilliard School's Saidenberg Faculty
Recital series. Not only could you hear the independence of
each line more clearly with a foursome than with a single
keyboard artist, but each voice can be phrased more
individually in a way that is difficult on a piano,
harpsichord or organ, where complex passages simply become
more chordal in nature.
   Unfortunately, the evening got off to a slow start, with
repeated intonation problems in the violins and a plodding
quality to the performances. But as the quartet moved into
Contrapunctus VI, with its accented, dance-like rhythms, the
pace quickened and the playing sharpened. The two-part canons
had all the best features of chamber music. And in
Contrapunctus XII, which concentrates on the lower registers
of the instruments, the performance took on the aural quality
of a baroque chest of viols. The musicians clearly reveled in
the rich, darker sound, and the audience did too. When the
quartet reached the point in the manuscript where the music
ends abruptly, the Juilliard paused briefly, then played a
hymn-like chorale reportedly dictated by Bach from his
deathbed ("I Will Appear Before Thy Throne").
   There was a moment of silence afterward. Then the small
but knowledgeable audience of students, concert-goers and a
sprinkling of score-reading faculty members erupted into
enthusiastic applause.
   This unusually lucid rendering of Bach's last work did
nothing, in my view, to undercut the position of many
scholars, including the pianist Charles Rosen, who argue that
"The Art of the Fugue" was intended for the keyboard
instruments of Bach's time -- harpsichord, clavichord or
organ. First, the notes fit the hands for keyboard well with
the exception of a set of "mirror" fugues that Bach arranged
for two keyboards. Second, and this may be mere conditioning
on my part, the piece sounds like a more mature cousin of
Bach's great keyboard works, "Two-Part Inventions" and
"Well-Tempered Clavier."
   Performances of "The Art of the Fugue" on the modern piano
thus may not be "historically correct," but from a musical
standpoint, they work extremely well. And in the hands of a
gifted harpsichordist such as Gustav Leonhardt (whose
recording on Deutsche Harmonia Mundi's "Classica Editio" is
well worth hearing), the piece has clarity, drama and
authenticity.
   But in the final analysis, the instrumentation issue is
secondary to the sensibility and creativity Bach displayed in
this work. When he wrote "The Art of the Fugue," his music
already was considered outdated -- and the fugue, with its
reliance on counterpoint, was especially passe. Was the
composer thumbing his nose at the younger composers of his
day? Or was he trying, even in his last moments, to push the
contrapuntal vocabulary to new limits? We'll never really
know, and that, too, adds to the appeal of this much-admired
but little-played work.
   ---
   Ms. Jepson is a free-lance music writer in New York.