Health:
   Several Firms Face Breast-Implant Woes
   ----
   By Thomas M. Burton
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Their activities -- coupled with some corporate sales and
mergers -- have widened the potential liability stemming from
silicone breast implants, and drawn in corporate giants like
General Electric Co., Minnesota Mining  Manufacturing Co.
and Baxter International Inc.
   In recent weeks, serious questions have been raised about
silicone's use in breast implants and its possible link to
immune-system diseases. The attention so far has focused on
the products and testing procedures of Dow Corning, a joint
venture of Dow Chemical Co. and Corning Inc. that is based in
Midland, Mich.
   But little-known court records and interviews with some of
the Dow Corning alumni and other industry executives indicate
that the products and testing procedures of most of the
industry were similar to those at Dow Corning. That's because
Heyer-Schulte and McGhan Medical basically duplicated the Dow
Corning breast implant and simply began selling it
themselves. And during the 1970s, they did minimal testing to
ensure that the silicone gel wouldn't cause illness in women
who had implants.
   "There weren't many studies of that type done," says Jan
Varner, one of the former Dow Corning employees who is
president of McGhan Medical, now a unit of Inamed Corp.
Heyer-Schulte and McGhan, he says, "relied very heavily" on
tests already done at Dow Corning. The other Dow Corning
alumni are Donald K. McGhan, now chairman of Inamed, Clark
Poole, Richard Compton and Charles Haynes.
   Baxter, GE and 3M are tied to the silicone-gel implant
controversy in different ways. Mr. McGhan in 1977 arranged
the sale of McGhan Medical to 3M, which operated a
breast-implant division until it sold the company back to Mr.
McGhan and his colleagues seven years later. Officials at 3M
won't comment on the number of implant lawsuits naming the
company.
   McGhan Medical bought its silicone from GE until 1976; GE
declines to comment on its role in silicone breast implants.
Baxter's role stems from its 1985 merger with American
Hospital Supply. American owned Heyer-Schulte from 1974 until
1984. In 1984, American sold the company to Mentor Corp.,
another California concern that today has grown into one of
the two top U.S. breast-implant makers.
   Dow Corning, the other leading manufacturer, is under
scrutiny because company documents suggest internal dissent
developed over the adequacy of the company's safety testing.
In one such document, a salesman says Dow Corning's decision
to sell a "questionable lot" of implants ranked "right up
there with the Pinto gas tank."
   Internal Dow Corning documents refer to early company
knowledge that the goopy silicone gel tended to "bleed" or
"migrate" through the devices' outer lining and into women's
bodies. Similar gel bleeding was known to officials at
Heyer-Schulte and McGhan in the mid-1970s.
   Earlier this month, FDA Commissioner David Kessler
declared a moratorium on the sale of silicone breast
implants, saying there's inadequate proof of their safety.
Various anecdotal medical articles link silicone to diseases
of the human immune system, though no controlled studies have
been completed. Dow Corning itself argues that its implants
are safe and meet all federal safety standards. Another
company, Bristol-Myers Squibb Co.'s Surgitek unit, had become
the industry leader by early 1991 but stopped selling breast
implants late last year, saying it couldn't meet FDA
requirements for proof of its products' safety.
   In a deposition in a liability case filed against 3M in
federal court in Detroit, Mr. Compton, a chemist hired by
Heyer-Schulte and now an Inamed executive, says, "This
phenomenon {of gel bleeding} started to become of interest in
the mid-`70s." When a silicone breast implant is placed on a
blotter, "you will be able to see a mark where that product
was," especially if you put pressure on the implant and "let
a lot of time pass."
   Some of the Heyer-Schulte implants have resulted in
serious health problems, according to Pierre Blais, a former
scientific adviser to Canada's health ministry who has
studied breast-implant safety for years. "The Heyer-Schulte
implants would cleave in half and spill their contents,
producing gross deformities," says Mr. Blais, who adds that
these implants are still being removed from some patients who
allegedly had health problems related to them. The line was
discontinued after Mentor Corp. bought Heyer-Schulte in 1984.
   Mentor says it purchased the assets, not the liabilities,
of Heyer-Schulte. A Baxter spokesman says the Heyer-Schulte
products "were manufactured and designed correctly" and that
the company sent out "notification of the risks known at the
time."
   The first Heyer-Schulte and McGhan Medical devices were
nearly identical to those made by Dow Corning at the time,
according to depositions of former officials of those
concerns in the Detroit suit against 3M.
   Heyer-Schulte "came out with what you could call a `me
too' version, and I was intimately involved with that," Mr.
Compton says in his deposition. It was, he says, like
producing a new model of car. "We were coming out with our
car, and it may look a little different, and it had to have a
lot of development, but {it} was basically using established
principles and technology." In a deposition in the same
lawsuit, Mr. Varner agrees that McGhan Medical "basically
duplicated" the Dow Corning product.
   Mr. Varner also vigorously defends the safety of
silicone-gel implants, saying that few of them have failed,
even the early ones. "I won't say that none of them failed,"
he says. "The amounts of any silicone movement {out of the
device} are very very small." Mr. McGhan didn't return
telephone calls.
   While McGhan Medical didn't change the materials used in
making the implants, it did improve the product enough so
that it began to cut into Dow Corning's market share.
   In fact, it was this increasing West Coast competition
that spurred Dow Corning to quickly introduce a new implant
product in 1975 -- the one that company documents suggest may
have been hastily tested and marketed.
   The suit against 3M was filed by a Florida waitress,
Louella Johnson. She had a breast implant inserted in 1984
after a mastectomy and claims she later grew intensely sick
and nearly died after suffering shortness of breath and fluid
retention in her chest, abdomen and legs. Her doctor
concluded she had an immune system illness, called human
adjuvant disease, and that it was caused by her breast
implant. After its removal, she recovered fully, according to
her attorney, Lawrence S. Charfoos of Detroit. Her suit is
scheduled to go to trial in March.
   Mr. Charfoos charges that "nobody at 3M, McGhan or
Heyer-Schulte did any testing to see about the systemic
effect" of silicone, effectively relying on the prior
experience of Dow Corning. A 3M spokesman contends the
company did indeed perform such tests, but says no one there
can recall the details and refers questions to McGhan. In its
court papers, 3M says its product wasn't responsible for Ms.
Johnson's illness and denied she suffered from an immune
system disease.