Letters to the Editor:
   It's Not You, It's Your Personality
It is true that an employee's personality can affect his
job performance and job satisfaction. A recent comprehensive
review of the scientific literature by three scholars at the
University of Western Ontario ("Personnel Psychology," winter
1991) analyzed the results of 97 independent studies across a
broad range of jobs and organizations nationwide. The
validity coefficient for personality tests in predicting job
success was found to average 0.29 (on a scale of 0 to 1). The
corresponding average validity for the MBTI, however, was a
weak 0.12. In fact, each study that examined the MBTI found
its validity to be below acceptable levels of statistical
significance.
   The implications of this research for organizational
practice: First, jobs should be carefully analyzed in order
to identify those personality factors critical for success.
Then, sound measures of these factors have to be found or
developed to screen prospective employees accurately.
Unfortunately, based on the objective evidence, the MBTI is
one measure not likely to have any value in predicting
employee success.
   As an industrial/organizational psychologist, I cannot
comment professionally on Mr. Auerbach's recommendation that
the MBTI be administered "to parents raising children, and to
young adults thinking about getting married." But I can
advise managers and human-resources professionals to look to
more valid techniques for screening prospective employees.
   For those managers who see the MBTI as a tool for
"open{ing} one's eyes to the richness and variety of people
around us," I suggest that they wipe away the rose-colored
tint on their spectacles.
   Seymour Adler
   Vice President
   Assessment Systems Inc.
   New York
   ---
   I doubt that even the authors of the MBTI would have given
such an endorsement of their instrument as did Mr. Auerbach.
Certainly, most psychologists would not. A 1991 review
published by the National Research Council, "In The Mind's
Eye," does not. As author of one of the research reviews on
which that book is based, I assure you that Mr. Auerbach's
enthusiasm is not supported by research.
   I agree with Mr. Auerbach that the MBTI is not a panacea.
I do not, however, believe that "the test should be routinely
administered to adults as they enter the workplace, to
parents raising children, and to young adults thinking about
getting married." (Perhaps we disagree on the meaning of
"panacea.") Anyone who adopts a psychological instrument for
any use without careful study of existing research does so at
considerable peril. Some tests can be very useful in
selection, career guidance, etc., and can enhance
productivity. Indiscriminate testing can both impair an
organization's bottom line, and expose it to EEOC
(civil-rights) litigation.
   Paul W. Thayer
   Head of Department of Psychology
   North Carolina State University
   Raleigh, N.C.
   ---
   I was surprised at the wide-eyed wonder expressed by Mr.
Auerbach. Personality tests, despite the heavy
equal-employment-opportunity considerations of the 1960s and
1970s, have always been with us. In medieval Europe the four
temperaments -- choleric, sanguine, melancholic and
phlegmatic -- were used to explain differences in
personality. They still do a good job of describing people,
and they tie in quite nicely with today's more-scientific
groupings.
   As a firm believer in the benefits to individuals and
corporations that use behavioral testing, I feel it would
help your readers to know there are many choices other than
the MBTI that Mr. Auerbach found so intriguing. In my own
consulting practice, I have found the Personal Profile System
of John G. Geier to be superior. It is easier to administer
than the MBTI, less expensive, a better team-building tool,
and is produced in four languages. I have used it in Europe
and Asia and find it crosses cultural barriers very well.
   I. Thomas Sheppard
   President
   Meridian Management Consultants
   San Francisco