Agonizing Rift:
   Breast Implant Debate
   Is Pitting Women
   Against Other Women
   ---
   Satisfied Customers Demand
   A Choice; Others Are Sick
   And Decry Health Risks
   ---
   Preparing for FDA Hearings
   ----
   This article was prepared by
   Wall Street Journal staff reporters
   Clare Ansberry and Joan E. Rigdon in Pittsburgh
   And Bruce Ingersoll in Washington
But Kay Spiro of Pittsburgh calls the implants "a living
hell." The two she received in 1986 after breast cancer
caused her so much joint pain she couldn't drive or work full
weeks, she says. She also suffered rashes, flu symptoms and
other illnesses, she says, adding that when she complained, a
doctor told her the pain was in her head. She had the
implants removed last year, but is still suffering. "There
are times I wish they would have left the cancer alone," she
says. "Then I would have only had six weeks of pain at the
end."
   Few issues have divided and embittered women so sharply as
the recent furor over silicone breast implants. Some women
are incensed at the notion that their bodies have been used
as testing grounds for a product whose safety is now in
question. Others believe the benefits of implants far
outweigh the risks. And still others, including some who
themselves have had problems with implants, insist women
should continue to have the option of using them.
   "I'm concerned this is dividing women one against the
other," says Ellen Barnett, a Bethesda, Md., psychotherapist
who has an implant.
   An estimated one million women have undergone cosmetic or
reconstructive implant surgery since 1962, when Mrs. Lindsey
made medical history. Suddenly they must second-guess that
decision. They don't know if they should have their implants
removed, and they're getting conflicting advice from
manufacturers and their own doctors, who say the implants are
safe and yet have been advised by the FDA to stop using them.
Meanwhile, some insurance companies say if the FDA bans
implants, they will consider whether to classify the implants
a "pre-existing condition," and in some cases restrict
coverage.
   Although there's sharp disagreement within the medical
community about whether silicone breast implants are safe,
the FDA has declared a moratorium on their use. Next week an
FDA advisory panel will meet to evaluate new information.
Last week, Dow Corning released documents showing that its
own researchers were concerned as far back as the early 1970s
that the implants could leak -- sending silicone through the
body with undetermined consequences. That information
surfaced because a San Francisco woman with a crippled immune
system filed suit against the company, which is a joint
venture of Dow Chemical Co. and Corning Inc.
   "There's an underlying sense of rage and betrayal," says
Kathleen M. Harris, a doctor whose breast imaging center at
Magee Womens Hospital in Pittsburgh has been barraged with
calls from worried women all over the country. "Women don't
know what to do."
   With nowhere else to turn, women are banding together in
grass-roots groups like Bosom Buddies, Command Trust Network
and American Silicone Implant Survivors Inc. At least three
suits have been filed that seek class-action status, and the
American Trial Lawyers Association has a breast implant
group.
   Meanwhile, users of breast implants feel they are being
split into two categories: cancer victims who may now face
another unexpected medical problem and women who simply
wanted to enhance their figures. Some 80% of all implant
surgery in 1990 was for cosmetic reasons, up from about 64%
in 1981, according to the FDA.
   "It's like splitting women into the deserving and
undeserving poor. Women with cancer are entitled to sympathy,
while women with augmentation are not," says Leslie R. Wolfe,
executive director of the Center for Women Policy Studies,
Washington. "It's divide and conquer, separating women into
good and bad."
   Barbara Delgado of Kirkwood, Mo., got her silicone breast
implants almost a decade after bearing her seventh child.
When she told her husband the day before surgery, he "asked
me not to do it," she says. "He didn't think I needed it."
Ms. Delgado says she didn't want bigger breasts, she just
wanted her old ones back. Ms. Delgado, now 51, is angry that
some people may think she's vain. "The only time I wear a
bathing suit is in my own backyard, to sunbathe on my porch,"
she says.
   Yet Ms. Delgado was furious when she learned recently
about the possibility that her implants might burst. "I was
told they'd outlast me," she says. Today she wouldn't choose
implants. "Absolutely not. And I would never counsel one of
my daughters to do it," she says.
   That judgment isn't as easy for cancer patients, who say
implants saved them from living with a daily reminder of
their loss. On a plane trip recently, Supreme Court Justice
Sandra Day O'Connor confided to Michigan Rep. John Dingell
how important reconstructive surgery with a silicone implant
had been to her recovery from breast cancer.
   Whether they support implants or not, women are angry they
were never told the risks. Ms. Barnett, the psychotherapist
who had implant surgery eight years ago after a mastectomy,
says she walked around with a notebook and grilled her
doctors until she felt confident "this was a fine product."
   Like the overwhelming majority of silicone-implant
recipients, she hasn't had health problems. And she doesn't
want to go through the pain or expense of removal.
   Yet she fears women are being kept in the dark when they
make decisions about their bodies. And silicone-implant
manufacturers, she worries, will halt production because of
liability concerns, while the FDA will rule that the product
is unsafe for women. "I'm really worried they'll be
patronizing and just say, `It's too risky for you honey,
we're taking it off the market.'"
   Some women believe the implants themselves are symbols of
the victimization of women. "You have this atmosphere in
which women feel they have to measure up to an increasingly
unnatural ideal," says Naomi Wolf, author of "The Beauty
Myth," who notes that many surgeons had advertised implant
surgery in women's magazines. Indeed, many top fashion models
today have breast implants.
   As she made the rounds of doctors trying to find the cause
of her pain, Kay Spiro assumed she had another cancerous
tumor in her body. She had a series of bone tests, CT scans
and X-rays, but no cancer showed up.
   "I was being told, `There's nothing wrong with you, you're
a hypochondriac, it's psychosomatic.' " says Ms. Spiro. "I
began feeling what have I done, and others would say `What's
wrong with you? Why don't you feel good? The doctor says
there's nothing wrong.'"
   Ms. Spiro now relies on a network of breast cancer
patients and medical articles at her local library to help
her deal with continuing symptoms. Breast cancer support
groups these days say they're flooded with calls from women
who haven't had the disease, don't have any side effects from
implants, yet worry about what they should do. Some say they
feel guilty for calling since they aren't sick, but they have
nowhere else to turn.
   Even the scope of the problem is unclear. Since there's no
national register on implants, no one can say exactly how
many women have them, in part because many won't admit it.
For now the numbers range between 304,000 and a million, says
Alan Andersen of the FDA. And the numbers don't distinguish
between silicone and saline implants, which haven't been
linked to medical problems. "There's precious little hard
data," says Dr. Andersen.
   Esther Rome, a member of the Boston Women's Health Book
Collective, says she's flooded with calls from women who want
their implants removed but don't know whom to turn to -- and
no longer trust their plastic surgeons. "They're stuck," she
says, explaining that "no doctor wants to take them because
of liability problems, and the women aren't sure if their
insurance will pay."
   The removal procedure is far from easy. For one thing,
implants can burst during surgery and cause more problems
than if they were left alone.
   Despite all the differing opinions about the safety of
implants, Bobbi de CordobaHanks, a breast cancer survivor who
has an implant, doesn't want to give hers up. Last June, she
fell and cracked her ribs. If the implant had ruptured and
"God forbid they had a recall, what would I have done? Gone
to Mexico?" asks Ms. de CordobaHanks, who runs the Bosom
Buddies breast cancer hotline in Jacksonville, Fla. She has
some simple advice for women who haven't suffered side
effects: "Keep your fingers crossed and enjoy life."