Winter Olympics 1992:
   Victory's Secret: Our Man Exposes
   Underpinnings of U.S. Effort
   ----
   By James P. Sterba
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
First, however, the Official Underwear's Press Kit
arrived, chock full of literature about the underwear's
mysterious fleece-like fabric, called Polartec, which had
already been to the top of Mt. Everest, into outer space, and
across Antarctica on the bodies of assorted adventurers and
astronauts, not to mention some Iraqi Kurds. (The fabric's
maker, Malden Mills Industries Inc., dispatched 10,000
Polartec blankets to Kurdish refugees last year.)
   For Albertville, Malden donated material and Kenyon
Consumer Products Inc. sewed it into 1,000 sets of Official
Long Underwear.
   The press kit also revealed that this wasn't underwear as
we know it but rather a "heavily engineered" High-tech
Hydrophilic Micro-Denier Polartec Synthetic Fleece Climate
Control Under-Garment System]
   It also turns out to be a vital component in a
revolutionary new winter-wear concept known as "layering,"
which is far too complicated for high-performance winterwear
novices to grasp. But it seems to revolve around the notion
that when you're cold you put more things on and when you're
hot you take things off.
   The mysterious fabric in the underwear layer is crucial:
It wicks up sweat and disperses it away from the skin. It
doesn't stay wet like cotton, or itch, smell and get heavy
like wool. Or so the press kit asserted.
   These assertions, of course, required an objective
assessment before America's beloved Olympians actually put
their underwear systems on. I thought Aspen would be a good
place for a rigorous field test. My beloved editors didn't,
which is why I found myself in the virginal field testing
venue of Duluth, Minn., on the frozen shores of Lake Superior
not 70 miles from Bob Dylan's boyhood home of Hibbing.
   I arrived with my Official Underwear on the very January
day the ninth annual 475-mile John Beargrease Sled Dog
Marathon commenced, a day in which the Duluth News-Tribune
made the following weather observation, which I am not making
up: "Temperatures tonight and early Wednesday morning {are}
likely to be 25 to 35 degrees below zero." Below zero.
   They called the giant frigid gust that arrived in the
night an Alberta Clipper. Outside my hotel room the next
morning, a blinking sign on a downtown bank read -27. All of
a sudden the words to "Blowin' in the Wind" took on new
meaning. When the local radio station announced that the wind
chill factor was 59 degrees below zero, I quickly slipped
into my underwear system and slid back under the blankets so
as to carefully observe Sled Dog Marathon updates
televisually.
   Field-testing duty eventually called. But before it did, I
phoned Joan Alvarez, editor of Outdoor Retailer magazine, who
confirmed that the stuff that stood between me and Popsicle
City was pretty miraculous. It works, she said. I demanded a
second opinion, so she put me in touch with a winter-wear
historian named Douglas Hoschek, an 18-year Malden Mills
veteran now with his own company.
   Between the three, Ms. Wallace, Ms. Alvarez and Mr.
Hoschek, I was reassured. Those fluffy de rigeur winter duds
that Patagonia puts out as Capilene and Synchilla are made of
the same stuff Malden Mills calls Polartec, they said. It's
all over the skiing and camping and outdoor stores, sewn into
dozens of winter-wear brands. Kenyon Consumer Products Inc.
sewed the fabric Malden donated into 1,000 sets of Olympic
underwear.
   What it is, of course, is plastic. Full-Toledo polyester
double-knits born again. None of those enviro-wimp "natural"
fibers in this stuff. Nothing from free-range sheep and
organic cotton fields. This stuff is pure petro-chemical
cornflakes melted down, extruded and fluffed up into cuddly,
down-soft underwear, shirts and jackets.
   You want to be in harmony with nature, fine. You get a
little gold star on your forehead. You want to conquer
nature, cop some Olympic gold and endorse Wheaties for big
bucks, you've got to win in plastic.
   Layering irony upon irony, Mr. Hoschek explained who was
responsible for this winter-wear revolution: hippies.
   "Basically, a few itinerant Berkeley hippies and mountain
climbers decided to make a living and polyester was the way
to go," he said. Actually, he went on, they couldn't find
mountain-climbing equipment and clothes that really worked so
they had to invent their own. One of them, Yvon Chouinard, a
Maine-born, Burbank-raised college dropout, built the
Patagonia line of winter wear into hot stuff starting with
Malden's synthetic fleece in 1976.
   "The original product looked like a dead dog after you
washed it," said Mr. Hoschek. Just the thing for ex-hippies.
"It became a cult item." It "pilled," meaning that all sorts
of little fabric dingbats formed on it. Malden Mills
gradually smoothed it out.
   I figured mountain-climbing hippies must be Bob Dylan
fans, and while they probably had never experienced Duluth in
January they probably knew a thing or two about frostbite.
   So I plunged ahead with my field test. My first thought,
once inside my underwear system, was this: If I were a sheep
I'd check to make sure my unemployment insurance was paid up.
This stuff was so cozy and comfortable that I began to worry
that our Olympic Team was in danger of being coddled. I also
noticed that the utilitarian keister-flap, so common in the
long johns of my youth, was missing -- surely an undersight.
   By the time I actually ventured outdoors, the temperature
was up to a balmy minus 12, but the insides of my nostrils
stuck together with each breath and I began to wish I had
some sort of Polartec nose-muff. The official undies,
meanwhile, did their stuff. Toast wasn't quite what I was
warm as, but after 20 minutes of brisk walking I was still
alive, although my conventionally garbed extremities were
freezing.
   When I got back to my hotel and regained the use of my
fingers, I dialed the U.S. Olympic Committee's headquarters
to ask whether wearing the official system was mandatory.
Nope, I was told. Athletes could wear any kind of underwear
they wanted. The official underwear, with the Olympic rings
symbols sewed on, is just one of the many products American
athletes would receive in various kit bags before, during and
after they participated.
   "Remember," said an Olympic official, "most athletes who
go to the Olympics don't win medals." What they come home
with are experiences, feelings, and the kit bags full of
official goodies.