Commodities:
   Silver Surge May Signal Start of a Bigger Rally
   That Will Take Prices to $5 an Ounce This Year
   ----
   By Anita Raghavan
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
"The technicals and fundamentals are coming together in a
bullish scenario" for silver, says Monroe Trout, who manages
about $225 million for Trout Trading Co. in Chicago.
   Declares Joseph Rosenberg, chief investment officer at
Loews Corp.: "We are on the right side of a bottoming curve."
Mr. Rosenberg manages the investment portfolio for Loews and
has been bullish on silver for awhile. He believes the metal
is undervalued, mainly because the cost of production for
many of the world's silver producers is higher than the price
of the metal.
   But that isn't all that is appealing about silver. "You
know what the most bullish thing about silver is?" asks Mr.
Rosenberg. It is "that until very recently, it was hard to
find any bulls."
   Even though silver bulls stumbled Friday, silver for March
delivery ended up 18.5 cents an ounce at $4.29 for the week.
The gains came amid a flurry of short-covering and a burst of
new technically based buying from commodity funds. Traders
cover short positions, or bets the price will fall, by buying
offsetting contracts.
   Because silver is heavily used in industry and is also a
component in film and electronic goods, a rebound in the
economy should benefit the price of metal, silver fans
contend.
   But silver still has its skeptics, who have seen the metal
take off in a speculative frenzy, only to sink to $4 and
below just as quickly.
   "The real key" for this silver rally "was when the Federal
Reserve dropped rates one full percentage point," says Jerry
Welch, publisher and editor of Commodity Insight, a St. Louis
market letter. The Fed's move to cut the discount rate it
charges on loans to financial institutions to 3.5% last month
speeded up the timetable for an economic recovery and helped
push silver prices higher, Mr. Welch says.
   "It's probably no coincidence" that the March contract,
after hitting a life-of-contract low of $3.81 on the day the
Fed cut short-term interest rates, has almost steadily gained
since then, Mr. Trout says. "Whenever the Fed eases or prints
money, things like silver and gold tend to move up."
   While Mr. Trout thinks the market could suffer a slight
setback in the coming weeks, he believes silver prices are
poised to rise, possibly to $5 an ounce by year end. The
reason he is so optimistic is because he thinks that for the
first time in months, technical factors are also on silver's
side.
   "Fundamentally, I have been bullish for some time, but
technically I was bearish" until last month, when the March
contract fell below $3.82 and then popped back up, he says.
What that showed was that "silver tested a new low and there
were no sellers."
   Mr. Trout's ebullience isn't universally shared, however.
Some analysts point to silver's performance Friday as a cause
for continued concern and say that as long as a supply
overhang dogs the metal, silver will do poorly.
   "Most significant bull markets have a couple of days of
follow-through," says Philip Gotthelf, editor of Commodity
Futures Forecast, a New Jersey market letter. "If you look at
silver {Friday}, it has stalled and that's a dangerous sign."
   Mr. Gotthelf says that typically whenever silver rises
above the $4.18-an-ounce level, it is hit with a barrage of
producer selling.
   The future of silver will depend on who is the winner in
the "battle between the funds that are technically oriented
and the producers who want to sell silver above $4.18," Mr.
Gotthelf says. Invariably, he says, "the producers will win
because they control the supply of silver."
                                                                                                       

   Energy
                                                                                                       

   Oil markets retain a bearish undertone because of weak
supply-demand fundamentals. Still, petroleum prices have been
firming and are likely to rise further if this week brings
more output cuts in the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries.
   So far, seven of OPEC's 13 members -- Venezuela, Ecuador,
Libya, Nigeria, Indonesia, Algeria and Iran -- have called
for OPEC-wide production cuts to prop up oil prices, either
now or when the oil ministers next meet on Feb. 12. Most of
the seven already have cut their own output or announced
their intent to do so.
   Two OPEC members -- Iraq and Kuwait -- don't count at the
moment. But two other Persian Gulf producers really do count:
United Arab Emirates and, particularly, Saudi Arabia, which
accounts for more than one-third of OPEC's total volume of 24
million barrels a day. Both increased output significantly
during the Persian Gulf crisis. Both now are under mounting
pressure to reduce production because of cuts by the others.
   The other cuts have been modest -- even "cosmetic,"
according to some oil traders. In all, they add up to less
than 200,000 barrels a day. That's hardly 10% of the two
million barrels a day some oil analysts insist OPEC will have
to trim to avoid a price crash if the usual seasonal weakness
in demand arrives in the second quarter.
   But these small reductions have triggered a turn to
choppy, volatile trading. They may even have brought a
reversal of market psychology, if only temporarily. After
plunging some $5 a barrel since October, prices suddenly
headed higher last week. They gained about $1 a barrel for
the week and ended it on an upbeat. Crude oil for February
delivery rose 25 cents Friday to settle at $19.16 a barrel on
the New York Mercantile Exchange.
                                                                                                       

   Grains  Soybeans
                                                                                                       

   Traders are divided over whether the wheat market can
sustain last week's big rally.
   At the Chicago Board of Trade, the price of the wheat
futures contract for March delivery rose seven cents a bushel
to $4.20 amid reports that the U.S. wheat stockpile is
shrinking to its tightest level since 1973.
   Supplies are so tight that Midwest weather is having an
impact on wheat prices -- even though the crop is dormant
during winter. Some traders are growing concerned that this
winter's sharp temperature swings are causing Midwest wheat
fields to heave, thus damaging the roots of young plants.
Repeated freezing and thawing of the soil's surface causes it
to crack.
   Grain traders this week will continue to focus on whether
the former Soviet republics can begin repaying U.S.
food-buying loans that are beginning to come due. The loans
are guaranteed by the U.S. government.
   The conventional wisdom is that the group will satisfy
their obligations in order to continue receiving U.S.
government credit guarantees, which already total $3.75
billion.
                                                                                                       

   Copper
                                                                                                       

   The big question on copper traders' minds as the week
begins is whether last week's rally will continue.
   Copper for March delivery set a life-of-contract low of
93.7 cents a pound last Monday, but at midweek began marching
higher, ending at 97.3 cents on Friday.
   "This is a technical and financial rally, similar to that
of the stock market," said Richard Hirsch, vice president of
Sharps Pixley in New York. Investors may be anticipating an
economic recovery down the road, which would boost demand for
industrial metals, he said. But the current supply-and-demand
fundamentals don't justify such a strong rally, he said.
   Because of that, Mr. Hirsch said, he expects the rally to
continue on technical factors, but wonders if it can be
sustained for long.