Notable  Quotable
Q: Could you go into the currency problem?
   CLAY: Without question, I think the two most important
achievements of military government were the currency reform
and the creation of the Federal Republic. But in specifics,
without the currency reform, Germany would never have been
able to take advantage of the Marshall Plan and would never
have had the rapid economic recovery, which was almost
miraculous. The currency reform gave Germany a currency which
has remained sound since the day of the reform.
   The fact is, I thought we could have had a currency reform
a year earlier as a quadripartite matter, and had even had
the initial currency secretly printed at that time and moved
into Bremen, so that when we were ready, we would have the
currency on hand.
   Our only difficulty when we did go ahead was the final
approval of our government as to timing. This applied equally
to the British and French. In fact, the French government
almost withdrew the final night. We had our trucks loaded and
they were on their way with the new currency to the various
banks where the exchange was to be made the following
morning. My French opposite suddenly arrived at my house {in
Berlin} with a statement that the French couldn't go along.
They wanted it all called off or there wouldn't be any
trizonal merger. It immediately became obvious that he was
acting under instructions from his government. It also became
obvious that we had to make a decision. So General Robertson
and I said, "Well, that's too bad. You stop the banks in your
zone from taking the new currency. We're going ahead."
Period.
   General Koenig conveyed this to his own government, and
they had a parliamentary session that night. Apparently they
got a vote of approval, because along about midnight the
French said they would go along. They had been concerned, I
think, that it would create problems with the Russians. Which
it did. But quadripartite government was already dead by that
time.

   Q: Why did the German public have confidence in the new
money?
   Clay: There were several reasons. First, I think that they
had turned in so much of their old currency for the new that
this in itself made it an object of value.
   Second, {Economics Minister Ludwig} Erhard's action in
removing economic controls shortly thereafter also helped,
because this enabled people to get better prices for their
goods than they might have otherwise. Third, the currency
reform was a further indication of military government's
desire to permit Germany to move ahead economically.