Politics  Policy:
   U.S. and U.N.
   Set to Step Up
   Pressure on Iraq
   ----
   By Gerald F. Seib
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
But U.S. officials said the mission to destroy
missile-making equipment is just one of a series of U.N.
missions to inspect and destroy military-related equipment
planned this month that are likely to displease Saddam
Hussein and could produce more disputes. "I think we're going
to go ahead and turn up the heat on inspections regardless of
their reaction," said one U.S. official.
   President Bush may have strong domestic as well as
foreign-policy incentives for confronting Iraq in coming
weeks. If Mr. Bush's political problems at home persist, he
will find it increasingly tempting to focus attention on
Iraq, if not through military action then at least by turning
up the heat in the international debate over Saddam Hussein's
actions.
   The situation may come to a head next week, when the U.N.
Security Council is to meet with a high-level Iraqi
delegation to explain its complaints about Iraq's behavior.
If Iraq doesn't offer more cooperation then, the U.S. and
other members of the Security Council are likely to take
steps to increase the pressure on Baghdad, perhaps by
isolating it economically beyond existing sanctions.
   And while one U.S. official insists the U.S. and its
allies don't have any "appetite" for military moves now, they
also might begin considering steps for creating military
pressure.
   There are moves short of direct military action that the
U.S. and its allies could take to turn up the heat on Saddam
Hussein. For instance, they could again begin focusing
attention on Iraq's treatment of its Kurds in the north, who
have been suffering under a months-long economic blockade
imposed by Baghdad in an effort to squelch unrest and
insurrection. Under one proposal being discussed informally
at the U.N., the Security Council would create a special
envoy to investigate Saddam Hussein's treatment of Kurds in
the north and Shiite Muslims in the south of Iraq.
   That, in turn, might lay the groundwork for a bigger and
more long-lasting U.N. presence in northern Iraq to aid the
Kurds, who are demanding autonomy from the Sunni Muslim
government of Saddam Hussein. And a bigger presence of U.N.
relief workers might require an international military
presence to protect them.
   By further isolating Saddam Hussein and increasing the
international humiliation of his regime, the administration
also might hope to increase the odds that elements within
Saddam Hussein's own government will decide to end their
country's predicament by rising up and overthrowing him. Such
an internal coup is what the administration would most like
to see develop in Iraq, and the administration already has
made contingency plans to come to the aid of coup leaders if
they get an insurrection rolling.
   Tensions between Iraq and the U.N. began rising last week,
when the U.N. team assigned to destroy Scud-making machinery
was forced to put off its plans because Iraq refused to
cooperate. Iraq, which doesn't dispute that U.N. resolutions
require it to destroy Scud missiles themselves, argued that
the equipment the U.N. targeted had uses other than Scud
missile production and could easily be converted to strictly
civilian use. As a result, Iraq argued that the equipment
shouldn't be destroyed.
   Iraq sent a letter Friday to the Security Council. But by
late Friday, the 15-member council had rejected Baghdad's
arguments and warned of "serious consequences" if Iraq
doesn't cooperate.