U.S. Moves Toward Plan for Rescuing
   Sick Thrifts, Banks and Their Owners
   ----
   By Paulette Thomas
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Timothy Ryan, director of the Office of Thrift Supervision
and the leading supporter of the plan, said that offering
government assistance to failing thrifts, without a takeover,
would keep local economies stable and expand credit access.
"The government liquidation process has had, I think, a very
serious effect on regional economies and maybe the country's
economy," he asserted.
   While regulators have aired the possibility before
Congress for months, they signaled their intention to pursue
the proposal by publishing its broad outlines, probably later
this week. The board that oversees the SL cleanup has
scheduled a hearing on the plan next month.
   Even considering a plan that would protect the interests
of owners of troubled thrifts would have been unthinkable a
year ago, when outrage was intense over the $220 billion
(exclusive of interest) SL mess. Now, however, the plan is
one measure of the anxiety in Congress and government
agencies about the weak economy and the credit shortage. The
recent banking bill included a nonbinding resolution advising
regulators to seek "early resolutions" of failing
institutions if they saved money in the long run.
   "I think this is deja vu all over again," said Eric Hemel,
thrift and banking analyst at First Boston Corp. and a former
government thrift agency economist. He said he doubted that
in the long run the government would save money on such
"early assisted mergers."
   Under the plan, a troubled, but not insolvent, thrift
would agree to merge with another institution, with the
government providing cash to cover a capital shortage or
shore up bad loans. To induce the owners of the troubled
thrift to agree to the merger, the shareholders' equity would
be diluted, but wouldn't be wiped out entirely.
   Albert Casey, the chief executive officer of the
Resolution Trust Corp., which sells failed SLs and their
assets, is skeptical about the plan and, in particular, its
fairness. "Do you save just the big ones or spend the money
to save more modest-sized, worthwhile institutions in smaller
communities?" he asked. "It's a very disturbing thing."
   But the plan would solve a huge problem for Mr. Ryan.
Under the law passed in 1989, the SL cleanup agency will
cease taking control of failed SLs in about 18 months. After
that, the industry-funded Savings Association Insurance Fund,
or SAIF, will absorb losses on all thrift failures. But if
any of several large, troubled California thrifts, including
CalFed Inc. and Glenfed Inc., failed, their losses would
immediately swamp the SAIF fund.
   "The window to the Treasury closes next year," Mr. Ryan
said. "I don't want to transfer institutions to the SAIF
which have terminal conditions."
   William Seidman, former chairman of the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corp., said regulators should have the authority to
protect shareholders at certain institutions. But he
envisions the plan as having limited use -- only for a select
few large SLs. He conceded that choosing those SLs would be
difficult. "Everyone and his brother will want to get under
that umbrella," he said. "It's like you're dying and they
invent a new drug."