FORM + FUNCTION
   ----
   By John Pierson
THE NATIONAL Park Service thinks half a canoe is better
than one.
   The Park Service and other federal agencies are adopting
new recreational symbols meant to be easier to read and
understand. The old sign for canoeing -- an entire boat with
two paddlers -- is being replaced with a canoe's bow half and
a single paddler. The rowboating symbol has been similarly
bisected.
   "From a distance, the old canoe gives you twice as much
information as you need," says Donald Meeker, a Larchmont,
N.Y., graphic designer who directed the sign redesign.
"Cutting the canoe in half allows you to increase its size by
four times."
   But simpler is not always better, according to Mr. Meeker
and his design colleagues Peter Reedijk and Paul Singer. They
have added, for example, three baby fish to the mother fish
that, alone, used to symbolize a fish hatchery.
   The Boston-based Society of Environmental Graphic
Designers, which sponsored the project, says the audience for
the new signs will include the millions of people who use
federal, state, local and private parks, camps, marinas, ski
areas and other recreation spots. Larger, simpler symbols
will help the nation's rising older population as well as the
increasing number of tourists who don't speak English. The
society used grants of about $75,000 from the Army Corps of
Engineers, National Endowment for the Arts and Tennessee
Valley Authority.
   The Army Corps has already begun replacing old signs in
the 4,500 recreation areas that it manages. Mr. Meeker
predicts that the public will "really start noticing" the 109
new symbols in the next three years.
                                                                                                       

   Retirees' Housing Tastes
   Become More Expensive
                                                                                                       

   WHEN it comes to housing, older folks are developing big
appetites. Instead of one bedroom, they now want two. Instead
of a kitchenette, they've started insisting on a full
kitchen.
   Recent surveys by the Institute for Technology
Development, Jackson, Miss., indicate that demand among
people over 65 is shifting away from small apartments.
Two-thirds want two bedrooms, almost half want two or more
baths, and more than half want a full kitchen.
   "The new generation of retirees clearly wants larger, more
functional living spaces," says David Kersley, director of
development for the nonprofit institute, which does market
studies for sponsors of senior housing.
   The surveys are confirmed by the experience of senior
housing operators. "People want more square footage, options,
flexibility," says David Slack, president of Retirement
Management, Lawrence, Kan., which runs 11 retirement
communities around the U.S.
   The current generation of retirees can afford its
expensive tastes. Mr. Kersley says most developers can offer
two bedrooms, two baths and a full kitchen for $1,000 a
month. Half the people in the U.S. over 65 have incomes high
enough to pay that rent.
                                                                                                       

   Here's an Office Chair
   For Adventurous Souls
                                                                                                       

   FOR AN Italian chair maker, nothing exceeds like excess.
   Many experts agree that desk workers' chairs should be
able to tilt forward a little. Cazzaro has taken the idea to
what may be the point of no return: 20 degrees of forward
tilt.
   The company's Swing chair, designed by Isao Hosoe of
Milan, follows the theories of Danish surgeon A.C. Mandal,
who argued that a forward-sloping seat is the best way to
maintain a normal back curve for someone working at a desk or
work station. As the user raises the Swing chair, the seat
automatically tilts more and more steeply.
   "Twenty degrees seems a lot to me," says Malcolm Pope, a
professor of orthopedics at the University of Vermont. "I'd
be concerned that people might slide off." Gunnar Andersson,
a Chicago ergonomist, says there's "general agreement" that
more than 10 or 15 degrees of slope puts too much weight on
the arms and feet.
   "At six degrees, the entire weight of the body starts to
slip off the chair," says Charles Davis, a marketing manager
at Steelcase. Most manufacturers are critical also of Swing's
inability to vary its seat angle at any given height. "I'm
six-foot-five, and I found Swing very comfortable, for me,"
says William Dowell, a researcher at Herman Miller. "But I
wonder about a shorter person."
   Ann Marinelli, a designer who worked on the Swing chair,
says 20 degrees "makes sense" for a tall person sitting at a
drafting table or some other high, inclined work surface. A
shorter person who wants to keep feet on the ground has to
settle for a flatter seat angle, Ms. Marinelli says.
   Cazzaro, based in Pombino Dese, near Padua, sells the
Swing chair, which lists for about $870 in Italy, throughout
Europe and in the Far East, but not yet in the U.S. The
steepest forward slope available in the U.S. appears to be 13
degrees, found in the Balans "kneeling chair," from Hag, and
10 degrees, in the Executive chair, by BackSaver Products,
Holliston, Mass.