Keating Indicted
   On Bankruptcy
   Fraud Charges
   ----
   By Rhonda L. Rundle
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Some of the funds were proceeds from the sale of American
Continental subordinated debentures, the indictment said.
Those bondholders are pursuing a lawsuit to recover some $250
million they claim to have lost after American sought Chapter
11 bankruptcy-law protection and the bonds became practically
worthless.
   The funds described in the indictment were allegedly
received by Mr. Keating; Charles H. Keating III, Mr.
Keating's son and former American Continental executive vice
president; Robert Wurzelbacher, Mr. Keating's son-in-law and
former company senior vice president, and by Ms. Wischer's
husband, George Wischer, an American Continental vice
president. Ms. Wischer was company president and Mr. Ligget
was its chief financial officer.
   Although the funds were paid directly to the American
Continental officers, the transactions were treated as loans
from Medema Homes of Utah, an American Continental
subsidiary, which "disguised the true nature of the
transaction," the indictment said.
   The five-count indictment in Phoenix adds bankruptcy fraud
to a long list of federal crimes charged against the senior
Mr. Keating, Ms. Wischer and Mr. Ligget. The core of the
government's case has been brought in Los Angeles, where the
same individuals, as well as Mr. Wurzelbacher and the younger
Mr. Keating, were indicted by a federal grand jury last month
on charges of fraud and racketeering related to the collapse
of the company's former Lincoln Savings  Loan Association
unit.
   Mr. Keating, Mr. Ligget and Ms. Wischer all pleaded
innocent to those charges.
   In Los Angeles, Mr. Ligget's attorney, Peter Rosen, said
his client is innocent of all charges against him. "There
isn't any evidence he received any funds or benefited
financially in any way beyond his salary. He wrote the checks
or caused them to be written; he was the chief financial
officer doing what he was told to do."
   Donald C. Randolph, lawyer for Ms. Wischer, also said his
client is innocent.
   Mr. Keating's attorney, Stephen C. Neal, couldn't be
reached yesterday.