Rewiring a Nation:
   Telefonos de Mexico
   Makes Promising Start
   On a Daunting Task
   ---
   Privatized Monopoly Shows
   First Signs of Rewarding
   Its Enthusiastic Investors
   ---
   The One-Exit Truck Garage
   ----
   By Matt Moffett
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
All right, so there are still kinks to be worked out
before Telmex becomes a world-class telecommunications
company.
   Mr. Slim and his partners, Southwestern Bell Corp. and
France Telecom Inc., knew to expect a bit of a struggle when
they bought into Telmex in December 1990. Though Mexico is
the world's 13th largest economy, it ranks 83rd in the world
in phone lines per capita. The average wait for a new line is
three years. The typical lag for repairs is several months.
And even figures like these don't convey the depth of the
problems. Most Telmex pay phones operate for free because
repair crews can't keep up with vandals. Lines are so often
crossed that befuddled dialers commonly open a conversation
by asking Adonde hablo? -- Where am I speaking?
   But even as Mexican consumers have been complaining
bitterly about Telmex, investors have been loving it. While
complaints against Telmex were soaring 230% last year, its
stock price was climbing 237%. Some conservative U.S. mutual
funds were among the big buyers.
   Maybe they knew something. For despite the immensity of
the challenge, Mr. Slim's Telmex turnaround appears to be off
to a promising start, telecommunications specialists say.
Even though 1991 was considered a transitional year, the new
owners managed to reduce costs by hundreds of millions of
dollars. They installed a record number of new lines.
   And they improved at least some of the service. Mr. Slim,
finally finding a line in his office that works, dials the
number for reporting service problems and -- after a moment
of suspense -- the call goes through. "Our operator picked up
in eight seconds," he says, checking his watch. "That
wouldn't have happened a year ago." When asked to fill out
Mr. Slim's first-year report card, an analyst at Nomura
Securities, Joanne Smith, gives him an A.
   For investors, Telmex is a play on a country that's coming
on strong. "Buying Telmex is very much buying Mexico," says
Raul Solis, director general of Mexico's Banco International,
which helped plan the 1990 Telmex privatization. And buying
Mexico, a nation of 80 million rebounding after a decade of
economic stagnation, is very much in fashion. A record $5
billion in foreign capital flowed into Mexican stocks last
year, more than half of that money into Telmex.
   Robert Lamons, a retired military officer from Lawton,
Okla., took note of Telmex after hearing that there were only
five phone lines for every 100 Mexicans, half the phone
density of the former Soviet Union. "I thought, `Now there's
a company that's going to grow,'" he says. Indeed it has;
Telmex is expected to report that 1991 profit rose about 60%
to around $1.8 billion as revenue grew about 30% to $5
billion. The stock Mr. Lamons bought last summer has more
than doubled. (There are two ways to trade Telmex in the
U.S.: The New York Stock exchange lists American depositary
shares that each represent 20 "L" shares with limited voting
rights; quoted on the Nasdaq are Telmex ADRs that each
represent one full voting "A" share.)
   Many telecommunications analysts think there's more to
come. Telmex outshines the U.S. Bell holding companies in
nearly every measure of growth potential, says analyst Jack
Grubman, who wrote a glowing Telmex report for PaineWebber
Inc. in November ("the right company in the right country at
the right time"). He sees earnings growing 25% annually for
five years, far faster than at the regional Bells. The
Mexican government concession requires Telmex to increase
lines by 12% a year through 1994, Mr. Grubman notes, adding
that favorable regulation preserves the company's monopoly
through 1996 and allows it flexibility on rate increases.
   If the government has been kind to Telmex, it's paid off.
Through the sale of the Telmex stake to Mr. Slim's group and
a later public offering of Telmex shares, Mexico has earned a
total of $4.8 billion. The government still holds a 9.5%
interest, worth $2.5 billion.
   Southwestern Bell also has a warm place in its heart for
Telmex. Its $953 million investment in 10% of Telmex has a
current market value of $2.85 billion.
   For Mr. Slim, sturdy as a lineman and rarely without a big
cigar, the task is to make service soar the way the stock
price has. The 51-year-old entrepreneur learned his first
lessons in business from his father, a Lebanese immigrant who
ran a general store in Mexico City. The father taught his
eight-year-old son to use an accounting ledger to keep track
of every peso of his allowance. Maybe that explains the keen
eye for a good buy that Mr. Slim displayed during the Mexican
debt crisis of the 1980s. While most businessmen were bailing
out of Mexico, Mr. Slim built what's now Mexico's biggest
business empire, ranging from mines to tire factories to
cafeterias.
   "Companies were absurdly undervalued," he says. "This
country has endured worse crises than that of the 1980s, and
it has always survived." Mexican history is a passion for Mr.
Slim, who has a valuable collection of books on the Spanish
Conquest and the Mexican Revolution.
   He and his U.S. and French partners are hoping that
Telmex's customers will take the long view when considering
the company's service problems. Notes John H. Atterbury,
president of Southwestern Bell's Mexican operations: "Telmex
didn't get this bad overnight, and it's not going to get
better tomorrow."
   Telmex was a more or less typically ineffective Third
World utility until the 1980s, when it was racked by a
natural disaster and a manmade one. The 1985 Mexico City
earthquake severely damaged the Telmex network. Meanwhile,
Mexico's debt depression kept the government from making the
huge investments needed to upgrade Telmex. In 1989, President
Carlos Salinas de Gortari said the only way to make Telmex
work was to privatize it.
   In winning the controlling interest in Telmex, Mr. Slim's
group narrowly outbid a consortium that included GTE Corp.
Mr. Slim pledged to invest $13 billion over six years to
double the number of phone lines. But he warned: "One must
have patience."
   He didn't realize how much patience would be needed until
he got a good look inside. The first order of business was
replacing Telmex's outdated analog technology with digital,
which carries vastly more information. But the new managers
encountered a mind-bending problem: For about a third of the
lines in the system, Telmex lacked accurate information about
how they were connected to the main network. "Before you can
change lines you have to know where they run," says Mr.
Atterbury. So Telmex is undertaking the laborious process of
checking every line.
   The new owners discovered that purchasing had been
conducted in a similarly haphazard fashion. An audit found
$300 million of equipment scattered in 105 Telmex warehouses
throughout the country. The warehouses are being consolidated
into just six equipment storage centers.
   Mr. Slim's group had the opposite problem with maintenance
centers: They were too centralized. All of the repair crews
in Mexico City, which has 20 million residents, were crammed
into 11 buildings. In one center there were 300 repair trucks
-- and one exit. It took an hour and a half each morning
simply to roll all of the trucks onto the street. The new
management built four maintenance centers last year and will
add 14 more this year. They will have multiple exits.
   One of the most burdensome legacies was an agreement to
buy hundreds of millions of dollars worth of equipment over
five years from local affiliates of Stockholm-based Telefon
AB L.M. Ericsson and Paris-based Alcatel N.V. According to
PaineWebber's Mr. Grubman, Telmex's suppliers were charging
the company three times what the Bell companies pay for
switches and other basic equipment. When Mr. Slim sought to
renegotiate the agreement, he ignited a battle that dragged
on all last year. "They were tough, tough, negotiations,"
says Rodrigo Calderon, an executive at Alcatel. "The new
Telmex is not an easy client."
   Unable to get the suppliers to budge after months of
bargaining, Mr. Slim played hardball: He threatened to defer
all of the purchases Telmex was obligated to make under the
five-year agreement until the final year. Facing the prospect
of four lean years, the suppliers agreed to lower Telmex's
equipment rates by $250 million in 1992. To ensure that
Ericsson's and Alcatel's prices stay competitive, Telmex has
brought in American Telephone  Telegraph Co. as a third
supplier.
   "In a remarkably brief time, Slim has succeeded in giving
Telmex a much more business-like management culture," says
Jorge Arredondo, an Ericsson executive.
   Having spent last year doing that, Mr. Slim now hopes to
concentrate on building up the network. Juan Antonio Perez
Simon, director general, says line growth for 1992 should
reach 14%, well above the government's mandate. Telmex is
expanding pay phone service by putting lines in mom and pop
stores, where the presence of the store owners discourages
vandals. Construction of an 8,000-mile fiber optic line
connecting 54 cities is ahead of schedule.
   Operators, who for years labored at 1940s vintage
switchboards, are switching to computerized systems that
enable them to handle 50 calls an hour, instead of the
current 15. "We're shipping these to a museum," says Emma
Rosa Hernandez, a supervisor, pointing to the old ones.
   Technology won't solve all of Telmex's service problems.
Even after it replaced the switchboards, management had to
haggle with the balky telephone workers' union to reassign
the people needed to run the new computers. That points to
the biggest potential problem with the Telmex privatization:
The owners and equipment may be new, but the workers are all
too familiar. To prevent the powerful 45,000member phone
workers' union from blocking the privatization, the
government specified in its concession that Telmex's new
owner couldn't make layoffs.
   Telmex has nearly twice as many employees per line as the
average Bell company. Productivity has always been
substandard. Repair crews have traditionally sold their
services to the highest bidder. Telmex linemen for years
refused to use cable protected with rain-proof jelly, because
it was slippery to handle.
   To offer employees an incentive to work harder, the
privatization scheme gave the union a 4.4% stake in Telmex.
It's still early, but there are signs that more of a work
ethic is finally emerging within the work force. The union
has disavowed several workers fired for corruption. Linemen
have agreed to give the waterproof cable a trial. One
operator has decorated her new computer terminal with a card
that says: "Be understanding of people's mistakes and they
will be understanding of yours."
   In the wake of the privatization, however, Telmex
customers are no longer so understanding. "People expected
service to improve dramatically overnight," sighs Mr. Slim.
It hasn't. Last summer's unusually heavy rains left the phone
network as fouled up as it had been in years.
   The combination of high expectations and high water
accounted for last year's 230% increase in complaints about
Telmex to the attorney general for the consumer, a government
ombudsman. One typically unsatisfied customer is Marcelino
Hernandez. He tells a Telmex lawyer and an arbitrator for the
attorney general that he's been overbilled for 90,000 pesos
($30). The Telmex attorney suggests Mr. Hernandez has made a
mathematical error. But the customer has his records, and the
arbitrator quickly rules in his favor. "The new Telmex-hah,"
says Mr. Hernandez, stalking out.
   Antonio Arrona Lopez, the Telmex lawyer, is resigned to
dealing with people who'd like to reach out and throttle him.
"Every day they cuss at you and call you a thief," he says.
He loses 80% of his cases, which would get him fired from
most corporate legal departments. "But that's a pretty good
record," he says, "considering I'm defending Telmex."