Technology:
   Intel Is Slashing
   Its Chip Prices
   By Up to 35%
   ---
   Research, Capital Spending
   To Be Increased for 1992
   In Bid to Maintain Lead
   ----
   By Stephen Kreider Yoder
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Intel will cut prices of its 386 chips, the most popular
"brains" of personal computers, to exploit a fast growing
market for cheap 386-based PCs, said Andrew Grove, Intel's
president and chief executive officer, in an interview. Intel
will cut the prices of its 386DX-25 chip, for example, to $99
from $152 each for chips delivered in quantities of 1,000
units or more after April 1.
   The price cuts are part of Intel's effort to remain the
dominant player in the market for the older 386 chip while it
persuades PC buyers to move to machines based on Intel's
faster, more profitable 486 chips. Intel's 386-chip market
share is under assault from "clone" chips made by Advanced
Micro Devices Inc. of Sunnyvale, Calif., which late last year
said it expects to report that its AM-386 chip grabbed 30% of
the 386-chip market in 1991.
   The price cuts "are in part inspired by AMD," Mr. Grove
said. The cuts are part of "our continued attempt to be the
largest producers of microprocessors of any kind forever," he
said.
   Intel's move is likely bring a new round of price cuts
from PC makers, after a year of gut-wrenching price wars.
   Meanwhile, Mr. Grove said Intel is succeeding in its goal
to shift its revenue to what the company calls "second-wave"
processors, which include Intel's leading-edge 486 chips and
386SL chips for notebook computers. Revenue from second-wave
chips exceeded revenue from other 386 chips in the fourth
quarter, he said. The successful shift to new-generation
products will bring Intel a banner year, said Andrew Kessler,
an analyst at Morgan Stanley. "They're in the early stages of
a product cycle and product cycles can be pretty powerful
when they kick in."
   Mr. Grove said total processor sales in the quarter were
back to record levels after falling off a bit in the third
quarter. Intel expects to report that per-share earnings for
the quarter were "somewhat better" than earnings of 80 cents
a share in the year-ago quarter, he said. That would place
earnings above levels expected early in the fourth quarter,
when Intel said it would have trouble meeting year-ago
earnings levels.
   Fourth-quarter revenue was "slightly better" than
third-quarter revenue of $1.19 billion, Mr. Grove said.
Revenue in the year-ago quarter was $1.05 billion.
   This year will be a crucial one for Intel, which must show
that it can keep a technological step ahead of Advanced Micro
and other rivals that threaten sales of Intel's 80386 chip
with their own clones. Competition from Advanced Micro helped
spur a wild ride last year in Intel's stock, which jumped
from a January low of $37.75 to a June high of $59.25, then
plunged to $38.50 in October. Intel's stock closed at $51.50,
up $2.25, in national over-the-counter trading yesterday.
   Intel's newest weapon in the personal computer market will
come this summer in the form of its next-generation
microprocessor, code-named the P-5. The new chip, expected to
be called the 586, will give Intel dominance over a wide
spectrum of computer markets, Mr. Grove said. "We're entering
a year that will be one of the most important years in the
history of Intel," he said.
   Mr. Grove also said the company expects its spending on
research, development and capital to be "not quite $2 billion
but pushing close to it." Intel's spending on RD and capital
last year was about $1.5 billion.