Earth Summit Will Shackle the Planet, Not Save It
   ----
   By S. Fred Singer
To be sure, there are many who are sincerely concerned
about the future of the planet; they are the "foot soldiers"
of the environmental movement. The "generals," however, seem
more interested in salaries, personal power and perks. With
budgets now surpassing $400 million a year collectively, the
officers of these organizations spend their time traveling
from conference to conference, extorting funds from industry,
and -- with the help of the media -- frightening the average
American into writing those $10 and $20 checks that form the
bulk of their support.
   But UNCED covers more than just the environment. The "D"
stands for "development," and to many in the Third World this
means the New International Economic Order -- which they
failed to achieve 20 years ago through the U.N. General
Assembly. Cynics then referred to the NIEO as a "scheme of
transferring money from the poor in the rich countries to the
rich in the poor countries."
   Third World kleptocrats now view UNCED as the vehicle to
reconstitute this scheme under the guise of ecology. They
call for industrialized nations, which currently contribute
most of the carbon dioxide to the atmosphere, to impose a
huge tax on all fuels, and then transfer the proceeds through
an international authority to less developed countries.
According to Department of Energy calculations, American
consumers would end up paying twice as much for gasoline and
electric power, a scheme guaranteed to stunt U.S. economic
growth. But limiting growth has always been among the
announced goals of radical environmentalists -- even if the
burden falls mainly on the poor.
   We are seeing this struggle now on a small scale in the
Northwest, where protection of 250 northern spotted owls will
result in, by conservative estimates, the loss of 33,000
jobs. Another example is the controversial wetlands policy
that permits the Environmental Protection Agency to remove
private land from development -- without compensation --
under the pretext that it has ecological value.
   Influential politicians support UNCED, including such U.S.
senators as Al Gore (D., Tenn.). Majority Leader George
Mitchell has just published a book, "World on Fire," that
endorses both the global warming scare and the controls on
energy use that UNCED hopes to impose on the industrialized
countries. And it is the Senate that would ratify any
international agreements resulting from UNCED.
   The U.S. is certain to play the key role in the outcome of
UNCED. The White House, to its credit, has resisted the
example of Germany, Australia and other nations. They have
announced specific targets for not just capping but reducing
carbon dioxide emissions, by as much as 25% over the next
decade or two, but have yet to detail their policies or the
tremendous costs involved.
   Pressure is mounting on the U.S. to exercise "leadership"
by abandoning its present position; the U.S. currently calls
for limiting the full "basket" of greenhouse gases, rather
than only carbon dioxide, and avoids specific targets and
timetables. Until recently, the U.S. point man was John
Sununu, then White House chief of staff. As a scientist and
engineer, he understood that the scientific climate data do
not support the catastrophic warming theories.
   Sam Skinner, the new chief of staff, will have to resolve
the differences between alarmists within EPA and others,
including Department of Energy officials and White House
Science Adviser Allan Bromley, who have been urging a go-slow
approach until a scientific basis has been more firmly
established.
   The key decision will focus on whether George Bush should
attend the Earth Summit -- as the democratic presidential
candidates are urging. His presence in Rio would put his
prestige and that of the U.S. behind the rush to impose
global controls on energy use that will have a calamitous
impact on jobs, technological progress, and standards of
living.
   ---
   Mr. Singer, professor of atmospheric physics at the
University of Virginia, directs the Science and Environmental
Policy Project in Washington.