Japan Auto Group
   Says FTC Probe
   May Be Widening
   ----
   By Eduardo Lachica
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
William Tanaka, the association's trade counsel, said the
group has petitioned the FTC either to limit the subpoena's
scope or "quash" it entirely. Although it has been widely
known that the FTC has been investigating trading practices
of Japanese-affiliated auto plants in the U.S., the subpoena
is the first indication that the commission is extending its
probe to their Japanese parents.
   In an interview, Mr. Tanaka said that the commission
hasn't explained its reasons for investigating JAMA or its
members. The association consists of 13 Japanese vehicle
manufacturers, including Toyota Motor Corp., Nissan Motor
Corp. and Honda Motor Co.
   The JAMA lawyer also said he was concerned that the probe
is being expanded to include Japan's trade practices in
"finished automobiles," but didn't elaborate. The
investigation originally focused on the auto-parts trade.
   The FTC initiated its investigation in June 1990 after
some U.S. auto-parts manufacturers complained to Congress
that they were being excluded from doing business with
Japanese-owned auto plants in the U.S. An FTC spokeswoman
declined to comment on JAMA's statements, but she said the
auto-parts investigation is continuing.
   Mr. Tanaka complained that the subpoena, served on Feb.
11, initially gave JAMA just three weeks to produce "almost
every piece of paper in JAMA's possession." Although JAMA is
willing to submit a reasonable amount of "responsive"
material, according to its lawyer, some of the records sought
by the FTC are "politically sensitive" documents whose
disclosure could compromise JAMA's relations with many U.S.
companies.
   In addition, the Japanese automakers are concerned that
the FTC's latest inquiries coincide with reports that the
Bush administration is considering extending the reach of
U.S. antitrust laws to foreign jurisdictions. JAMA received
the subpoena 10 days before Attorney General William Barr
said on a television talk show that the administration is
"re-examining our antitrust policies with respect to cartels
overseas that restrict U.S. exports."
   Mr. Tanaka warned that undue pressure on JAMA could
"chill" its efforts to bring U.S. auto-parts makers closer to
potential Japanese buyers.