Technology & Medicine:
   FDA Approves
   Pfizer's Zoloft
   Anti-Depressant
   ----
   By Robert J. Brennan
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Pfizer said Zoloft, its brand of sertraline, was approved
by the Food and Drug Administration. It said it expected to
begin marketing the drug in the first quarter. Zoloft
currently is sold in Britain and Ireland under the name
Lustral. SmithKline Beecham PLC's similar anti-depressant,
paroxetene, is sold under the name Seroxat in several
European countries and an application for FDA approval is
pending.
   Analysts had expected the timing of the FDA approval and
start of marketing and have said the drug would be
immediately profitable. They also said there was room for a
competitor to Prozac, which they didn't see being hurt by the
introduction of Zoloft. Prozac is expected to have 1991 sales
of $1 billion.
   Ron Nordmann of PaineWebber Inc. said he expected Zoloft
sales in 1992 to be about $150 million and 1993 sales likely
would reach $300 million. But he said "it's difficult to
estimate the overall market because these drugs will be
substantially higher priced" than the older anti-depressants.
Pfizer hasn't yet disclosed the price of the drug. He said
Pfizer isn't expected to release the labeling for Zoloft for
another week or two, when a comparison can be made with
Prozac for dosage and prescribed uses. A spokesman for Eli
Lilly in Indianapolis said current pricing of prozac is about
$1.50 to $1.80 a tablet, with one tablet a day the generally
prescribed dosage.
   Mr. Nordmann also said he expected Pfizer to seek approval
in the first quarter to use Zoloft for obsessive-compulsive
disorders and in the fourth quarter for obesity.
   Pfizer also said its introduction of Zithromax, the brand
of zithromycin approved in November to treat mild to moderate
pneumonia, would be delayed pending FDA review of some data
on a group of 19 patients. It said the data on the 19
patients were inadvertently omitted from the documentation
provided to the FDA during 1991. Pfizer said it realized the
omission of the 19 cases -- among the thousands tested with
the drug -- after the FDA approved the drug in November, and
immediately notified it and provided the data. It said the
FDA is expediting the review, and doesn't expect any major
change in labeling for Zithromax as a result of the review.
   Mr. Nordmann said "a critical point is that the FDA hasn't
rescinded approval. They've simply asked Pfizer to hold up
the launch" of Zithromax while it quickly reviews the 19
cases. "My best guess is that Zithromax will launch in about
30 days. I really don't read anything important" in the
failure to submit the data on the 19 patients, he said.