Washington Wire:
   A Special Weekly Report From
   The Wall Street Journal's
   Capital Bureau
   ----
   Compiled by Ronald G. Shafer
Clinton is the only Democrat raising enough money to keep
up momentum after New Hampshire. His $821,000 in federal
matching funds for January exceeded all his rivals combined.
He has fund-raisers slated in New York, Boston and Los
Angeles. Anyone who finishes below second in New Hampshire
will have money trouble. Chances could grow for a late entry,
such as Gephardt or Cuomo.
   What must worry Republicans "is that the Democrats might
actually have a real exciting convention, and no one knows
what that might produce," says GOP theorist Kevin Phillips.
                                                                                                       

   BUSH AIMS to seal a deal with Russia on deeper nuclear
arms cuts.
   Baker plans talks next week in Moscow to close gaps
between the Yeltsin and Bush plans. Bush's proposals would
leave about 4,700 strategic warheads in the U.S. arsenal and
about 4,500 in Russia's, while Yeltsin's would cut both sides
to 2,500.
   The administration hopes to have agreements in hand when
Yeltsin pays a state visit in late spring or early summer.
One uncertainty has been whether the Russian leader can
negotiate for all former Soviet republics. U.S. officials now
think he can succeed by July in pulling all tactical nuclear
weapons out of other republics and consolidating them on
Russian soil.
                                                                                                       

   BATTLES ERUPT within the White House, Congress over
economic strategies.
   Some top Bush political advisers argue he would gain more
from a clash with Congress than a compromise. They accuse
budget chief Darman and Treasury secretary Brady of being too
conciliatory. Though Bush cuts some Congress-bashing lines
from speeches, he fingers lawmakers for inaction on the
economy.
   Congressional Democrats move fast on the Bush plan while
sniping at it. "The Democrats are playing this pretty smart,"
a White House official concedes. House leaders are inclined
toward compromise. But Senate Leader Mitchell itches to send
Bush a bill he'll veto because of tax increases on the rich,
reviving the "fairness" issue.
   The time for compromise will end soon. "When partisanship
takes hold, the opportunity for actually getting things done
decreases," Darman warns.
                                                                                                       

   CALLING CUOMO: An unauthorized write-in campaign for the
New York governor takes off in New Hampshire where backers
hope to win 15% of the vote to qualify Cuomo for delegates.
"If he gets more than 10% of the vote," says pollster Lee
Miringoff, "he starts passing people who are on the ballot."
                                                                                                       

   JAPAN BASHING by some Democrats didn't keep the
fund-raising arm of congressional Democrats from taking a
$10,000 donation from Toyota Motor Sales USA. Meantime, the
lobbying firm of Bush campaign strategist Charles Black signs
the U.S. unit of Japanese electronic giant NEC. Black says he
won't work for the new client.
                                                                                                       

   MONEY MEN: Bush advisers defend a campaign finance
committee that includes Wall Street takeover king Henry
Kravis and Florida sugar grower Jose Fanjul, whose reliance
on import quotas runs against Bush's free-trade views. "What
are you going to do-get schoolteachers to be your
fund-raising people?" asks a top campaign official.
                                                                                                       

   DIPLOMATIC SHAKE-UP: A big reshuffling of U.S. ambassadors
is in the works as many end their scheduled three-year tours.
One change being discussed: Assistant Secretary of State
Richard Solomon could become ambassador to the Philippines,
replacing Frank Wisner who would get a senior State
Department job.
                                                                                                       

   GROWING DOMINANCE of three U.S. airlines raises calls for
re-regulation.
   GOP Arizona Sen. McCain calls the hold of American, United
and Delta on airline markets "a deregulated monopoly."
Minnesota Rep. Oberstar, a Democrat, pushes a bill to tighten
rules for airline reservation systems and give smaller
airlines more access to major airports. Germany and France
want to protect home carriers against increased competition
from the U.S. airlines.
   But the Bush administration and the airline industry
dismiss monopoly concerns. The Transportation Department's
Patrick Murphy notes that lower interest rates and fuel
prices have lifted prospects for the less healthy airlines.
The Air Transport Association cites a study showing air
fares, adjusted for inflation, have fallen 20% since 1978.
   Even Sen. McCain concedes it may be too late to boost
competition: "So many airlines have disappeared, it makes it
more and more difficult."
                                                                                                       

   MINOR MEMOS: Hoping to reach its kind of voters in New
Hampshire, the Libertarian Party's presidential candidate
runs TV ads during re-runs of "Star Trek." . . . In a
pre-Broadway revival of "Man of La Mancha," Don Quixote stirs
spontaneous applause from a Washington audience with the
line, "Facts are the enemy of truth." . . . The Governors
Center at Duke University ranks state governments by revenues
as part of the Fortune 500; No. 321 Vermont comes in right
behind Fruit of the Loom.