Entertainment:
   For Nickelodeon, Crude 'Toon Is Big Hit
   ----
   By Mark Robichaux
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
"I don't remember ever seeing animated retching before,
and I hope to never see it again," writes a TV critic for the
Austin (Texas) American-Statesman. "Cutting edge, maybe;
funny, absolutely not."
   But "Ren  Stimpy" just slays growing legions of kids with
its abundance of sight gags that play up the human habits
that define poor taste. An unseemly number of grown-ups have
adopted the show, too, drawn to its sardonic and satirical
bent. "It's sick humor, but the more you watch it the more
you like it," says Darlene Dei Cas of suburban Pittsburgh,
whose college-student son got her hooked on it.
   The mismatched duo is part of a $40 million gamble for
Nickelodeon. The Viacom Inc. channel has committed that sum
for 72 new episodes of three original cartoon series, its
first such effort. The other two series are "Rugrats," which
looks at life through the eyes of a one-year-old and his
diapered pals, and "Doug," about a painfully average
11-year-old.
   The gamble comes at a time when the Big Three networks are
watching their Saturday morning ratings shrink and NBC is
dropping cartoons altogether. For years the networks have
churned out a multitude of uninspired characters that arose
not from animators' imaginations but from the product lines
of toy makers and movie studios. "My Little Pony" and "G.I.
Joe" were succeeded by "Back to the Future" and "Teenage
Mutant Ninja Turtles."
   "That's the only thing the big networks will buy --
something that already has a life," says Vanessa Coffey, a
Nickelodeon vice president who oversees "Ren  Stimpy."
"Starting from scratch is hard."
   For Nickelodeon, though, it has brought some good numbers.
"Ren  Stimpy," now in its first full season, is the breakout
hit of the three new series. The show has doubled the
channel's Sunday morning ratings among kids aged two to 11,
grabbing a 5.8, or some 1.2 million viewers. The cartoon has
also doubled Nickelodeon's audience among adults under age
50.
   Viacom, sensing a ready audience among the college crowd,
has also moved "Ren  Stimpy" over to a sister channel, MTV,
for a second run. In short order, it has become one of the
channel's Top 10 shows. "It's a cult thing. My age group gets
off on it," says Eric Baker, a 24-year-old drummer with a
no-name rock band in Bridgewater, N.J. He is thinking of
naming the band "Ask Dr. Stupid" after a regular feature of
the show.
   The cartoon is also a hit at a minimum-security high
school for young offenders in Solmers, N.Y. Every Sunday
morning, teacher Michael Smith and his students gather in the
TV lounge to watch the show over doughnuts; students have
taken to memorizing the sketches, he says.
   Ren and Stimpy took 12 years to reach the tube. They first
popped into the mind of their creator, John Kricfalusi, as
doodles after he saw a postcard of a chihuahua wearing a
sweater.
   The 36-year-old animator had bummed around in Toon Town
for years, freelancing and working as a caricaturist at
"sweet 16" parties. He also did some drawing for the Big
Three networks' toy-inspired cartoon shows. "It's bad on
every level," he says of those programs. "It's a plot to
destroy humor."
   Mr. Kricfalusi -- he pronounces it CHRIS-fa-lucy -- had
tried to sell "Ren  Stimpy" to the networks four years ago.
He even lied mightily, pitching the show as having a social
conscience and suggesting that a group of children would be
regular characters in the show.
   When the networks said no, Mr. Kricfalusi and three
partners formed their own animation company, named Spumco.
"Ren  Stimpy" is a throwback to the old days of animation,
when the artists handled both drawing and writing and let
their sight gags dictate story lines. "We wanted to give back
the creative force to the artists," Nickelodeon's Ms. Coffey
says.
   The artists draw Ren and Stimpy as if the pair had spent
the '70s on a bad acid trip. Ren's eyeballs bulge out of his
skull. Stimpy's nose is like a removable overnight bag, and
the pupils in his eyes are dilated to different sizes. If
Stimpy has a tail, it rarely makes its presence known.
   Instead of writing a script, the animators transfer ideas
from a two or three-page outline to scenes on a storyboard,
adding action and dumb stunts as they draw. The outlines
emerge in loud gag sessions in local haunts. "We have no
shame," says one of the show's writers, Vincent Waller.
   For a cartoon, "Ren  Stimpy" can get pretty gloomy. The
characters go hungry, stay sick for months, get separated. In
"The Boy Who Cried Rat," a spoof of "Tom and Jerry," Ren and
Stimpy cook up a ruse to get Stimpy a job as a mouse catcher.
Stimpy proves his worth by catching Ren, who is posing as a
mouse. But there's a problem: The new owners want Stimpy to
eat Ren. Most of the episode takes place inside Stimpy's
mouth. Finally, since Stimpy can't eat his best buddy, Ren is
coughed up.
   "Yes, it's gross," Mr. Kricfalusi says defensively. "But
cartoons don't have to be good for you. Give kids a break.
There's nothing in there that's going to get you in jail or
anything."