Year-End Review of International Markets:
   Currency Traders Are Likely to Be Cautious
   To Cash In if U.S. Economy Finally Rebounds
   ---
   Dollar Is Expected
   To Fall, Then Rally
   On American Growth
   ----
   By Michael R. Sesit
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Still, most scenarios for this year are straightforward:
After some initial weakness, the dollar is expected to rally
on the back of renewed U.S. growth and stable -- even rising
-- U.S. interest rates. At the same time, slowing economies
in Europe and Japan are expected to lead to easier monetary
policies abroad and weaker currencies there.
   "The interest rate differential between U.S. and European
rates will narrow, making the dollar more attractive,"
predicts Donald Mumma, head of treasury operations at Credit
Suisse in New York. In six months, he sees the U.S. currency
trading at 1.67 marks and 133 yen. A year out, Mr. Mumma says
the dollar will be valued at 1.75 marks and 140 yen, up 15%
and 12%, respectively from the end of 1991.
   For many traders and investors, 1991 was a year of
partially fulfilled expectations: Initially, analysts
predicted the dollar would drop to record lows; it did. Then
traders, believing a recovery and higher U.S. interest rates
were around the corner, sent the dollar soaring; they were
wrong.
   All this was played out against the backdrop of a
disintegrating Soviet Union and a post-Persian Gulf War view
of George Bush as an effective world leader. By Dec. 31, the
Soviet Union had broken up but not as violently as many had
anticipated. And President Bush was fading in opinion polls.
   At the end of 1991, the dollar stood at 1.5170 marks and
124.85 yen, compared with the 1.4920 marks and 135.40 yen
where it began 1991. In between, though, the dollar rode a
roller coaster.
   After a brief January spurt, the dollar began tumbling
when the Gulf War began Jan. 16. By Feb. 11, bearish traders
had pushed the dollar to 1.4425 marks, a record low.
   Yet when it became evident the war would be short, traders
and analysts concluded "that the U.S. would get out of
recession and that U.S. interest rates would rise," says J.
Graham Spiers, vice president in charge of foreign-exchange
management at Travelers Investment Management Co. in
Hartford, Conn. "Also, there was a growing sense that George
Bush looked like a winner. That helped the dollar,
irrespective of economic realities."
   Analysts also began to recognize "the costs of German
unification, besides just the benefits," says Ms. Mills of
Lehman Brothers. The rosier U.S. and poorer German outlooks
"together led to a dollar ascent that left everybody
gasping." In just six weeks -- Feb. 11 to March 25 -- the
dollar soared 19.4%, its steepest climb since the floating
exchange rates were adopted in 1973. The ride skyward
continued, topping out at 1.8427 in intraday trading on July
5.
   From then on -- except for a brief spike upward during the
failed Soviet coup in August -- "as the U.S. recovery
faltered, so did the dollar," says Ms. Mills.
   By contrast, the dollar's movements against the yen were a
bore. The Japanese currency's path generally mirrored that of
the mark, but a lot less drastically. Analysts don't see 1992
being any more exciting. Noting that Japan can afford to
stimulate its economy and still cut interest rates without
triggering inflationary pressures, Mr. Spiers says.
   "Japan is now more parallel to the U.S. in terms of policy
mix," he adds, and there are still "political pressures to
keep the yen strong." In a year, "the yen probably won't be
too much further from where it is now: 125-130 yen to the
dollar," he says.
   Against Europe's currencies, analysts see an economic and
a political case for the dollar.
   In addition to a U.S. economic rebound and higher interest
rates, Travelers' Mr. Spiers says: "The big move in German
interest rates in 1992 will be down." Thus, he forecasts that
the dollar will "bottom out early in 1992 and then go up 13%
or 19% to 1.72 marks or maybe even 1.80 marks."
   Lawrence A. Veit, an international economist at Brown
Brothers Harriman & Co., see other pluses, such as an
improving U.S. trade balance with Europe. He also sees a
"portfolio effect" boosting the U.S. currency. "As the U.S.
starts to grow again, the U.S. will be a more attractive
place in which to invest," he says.
   A dollar bull, Mr. Veit says that by the end of 1992, the
U.S. currency will trade near 1.85 marks, up 22%.
   Political support lies in Eastern Europe. "This winter is
going to be crisis time in the old U.S.S.R.," says Ms. Mills
of Lehman Brothers. The short-term impact, she says, "could
be massive, given that day-to-day the people who control
currency movements are traders." But she cautions that "the
longer the Soviet risk persists without anything happening
very much that effects Western Europe, the longer we learn to
live with it."
   Still, all currency forecasts are vulnerable to the
unexpected. "If Congress or the Federal Reserve does
something that the market perceives as inflationary and U.S.
interest rates show a negative real rate of return -- where
they are below the U.S. inflation rate -- the dollar will get
real weak," warns Mr. Mumma of Credit Suisse.
   While Ms. Mills sees the dollar at 1.651.75 marks in six
months, she warns that the U.S. currency could later fall
back if the recovery is weaker than expected and the German
economy is buoyant enough to preclude significant reductions
in German interest rates.
   "Exchange-rate forecasts a year from now are a relatively
low-value operation," Ms. Mills cautions. "You are trying to
forecast a turning point in the U.S. economy, a turning point
in the German economy, the U.S. election, and the course of
events in the {former} Soviet Union."