Cushman Is Among
   Companies Barred
   From RTC Work
   ----
   By Paulette Thomas
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The notice said that Cushman  Wakefield, which is based
in New York, was temporarily suspended from RTC work in
December. Under the 1989 bailout law, the agency can't hire
companies that are being sued by the government unless they
are given waivers.
   In the case of Cushman, an employee who had previously
been sued by the government for his alleged role in the
failure of several SLs was part of a Cushman group selling
properties for the RTC.
   The three-month ban against Cushman expires next month.
The suspension only bars the company from seeking new work
during the period. The RTC retained Cushman to sell 81 SL
branch buildings in California, and the company will continue
marketing those properties, according to the company and the
RTC. "They believed there was a compelling reason to continue
since it was so far along," a Cushman spokesman said. The
company plans to seek additional RTC work when the suspension
expires, he added.
   The failure of hundreds of SLs prompted such a barrage of
lawsuits that many companies have been given waivers that
permit government work under the condition that employees
accused of wrongdoing are banned from doing work for the
agency. Companies with high ranking employees who have been
convicted of felonies are also barred.
   The RTC has about 12,000 contractors, many of them
appraisers, real estate and financial professionals. In the
flurry of work disposing of billions of dollars in assets
begun three years ago, it required contractors to pledge that
their applications wouldn't violate RTC rules. In audits,
however, RTC officials found discrepancies in some
applications.
   The other companies were banned for reasons varying from
causing a substantial loss to the deposit insurance fund to
making false statements.
   In addition to Cushman, according to the RTC memo,
companies banned as contractors for the agency are Automated
Services Group Inc., a Silver Spring, Md., computer concern,
and its principal, Conrad Hipkins; Billy Norris Appraisals,
Phoenix, Ariz., and its principal, William Norris, and a
related company, U.S.A. Appraisals; Finacom Inc., Annandale,
Va., and its principal, Emily Woo; and Ralph Edgar Group,
Lake Geneva, Wis.
   Mr. Norris declined to comment. Spokesmen for the other
firms couldn't be reached for comment.