Thursday's Markets:
   Stock Prices
   Are Mixed;
   Bonds Slip
   ---
   January Job Report,
   Due This Morning,
   May Move Markets
   ----
   By Douglas R. Sease
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Today's employment report could move the financial
markets. Economists surveyed by Dow Jones Capital Markets
Report estimate that nonfarm payrolls rose 33,000 in January
after rising 31,000 in December. The civilian unemployment
rate is expected to be unchanged at 7.1%.
   If it turns out that payrolls shrank, instead, the Federal
Reserve might cut the federal funds rate -- which banks
charge one another for short-term loans -- once again to show
its resolve to get the economy growing. But analysts aren't
sure what the Fed might do if jobs do indeed grow modestly as
projected. While investors are betting that an economic
recovery is already in the works and that evidence of it will
begin to appear in the next few months, analysts said one
more cut in short-term rates would bolster investor
confidence.
   The economic news yesterday presented a mixed picture. On
the upbeat side, the Labor Department reported that initial
claims for state unemployment insurance fell 10,000 to
450,000 in the week ended Jan. 25, in line with expectations.
And the nation's chain stores reported robust gains in
January sales.
   However, the Commerce Department reported factory orders
fell 3.8% in December, a steeper decline than had been
anticipated.
   Stock market experts are divided about whether the rally
is due for a setback. Optimists suggest that after a few
weeks of seesawing, stock prices will head higher again.
Pessimists argue that with institutional investors' cash at
low levels and with optimism running rampant among market
forecasters, the stage is set for a decline of 200 points in
the Dow industrials.
   In major market action:
                                                                                                       

   Stocks were mixed in heavy trading. Volume totaled 238.2
million shares on the New York Stock Exchange, where 912
stocks rose and 772 fell.
                                                                                                       

   Bond prices fell. The Treasury's benchmark 30-year issue
fell fell 3/8 point, or about $3.75 for a bond with a $1,000
face amount. The yield on the issue rose to 7.76%.
                                                                                                       

   The dollar was mixed. In late New York trading, the
currency was quoted at 1.5770 marks and at 125.73 yen
compared to 1.5805 marks and 125.46 yen Wednesday.