Spanish Banks Have Future in Common
   ---
   After Merger, Sluggish
   Legacies Must Be Overcome
   ----
   By Nicholas Bray
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
But he and Mr. Amusategui, now Central Hispanoamericano's
co-chairman and managing director, also were well aware that
their immediate battleground would be Spanish. The merger of
Central and Hispano Americano, formally completed at the end
of 1991, comes at a difficult time for the Spanish banking
system.
   As the nation braces itself for a single European market,
in which foreign banks will be free to compete in Spain on an
equal footing with local institutions, its banking system
faces rising bad debts, stiff competition for deposits and
weak credit demand.
   The merger "is going to require a lot of effort,
particularly at the beginning," says Maria Cabanyes, an
analyst at Madrid brokerage firm Iberagentes.
   Negotiated by the banks' chairmen with a handful of close
aides during a single weekend last year, the merger is a
further significant step in the rationalization of Spain's
still-overcrowded banking sector. In size, Central
Hispanoamericano overtakes Banco Bilbao Vizcaya, hitherto
Spain's biggest bank, to rank approximately 60th on a world
scale, with parent bank assets of about eight trillion
pesetas ($83 billion) and consolidated group assets of
roughly 9.5 trillion pesetas.
   In Spain, Central Hispanoamericano has 33,000 employees at
3,500 branches. Abroad, it has branches in 14 countries,
including Britain, Germany and the U.S. It has shareholdings
in an extensive network of Spanish companies, including the
second largest oil refiner, Cia. Espanola de Petroleos, the
Vitalicio insurance group and the biggest construction
company, Dragados  Construcciones S.A.
   But it also inherits a legacy of years of less than
dynamic management, particularly on Central's side. In the
past, this has been reflected in earnings and in the two
banks' share prices. Though performing comfortably compared
with many foreign banks, both have lagged behind leading
Spanish banks in profitability. Their combined pretax
earnings in the first half of 1991, 56.4 billion pesetas,
gave an annualized return on assets of 1.46%, well below the
3.04% achieved by Spain's most profitable bank, Banco Popular
Espanol.
   An improvement in earnings now, at a time of dwindling
margins in traditional banking business, will require
considerable efforts to cut costs and launch products. "We're
going to have a tough first year," admits Mr. Amusategui. The
merged bank, he adds, "will have to move fast to satisfy its
clients of the advantages it can bring them as a larger bank
with a wider range of services."
   For Mr. Escamez, 76 years old and the acknowledged dean of
Spanish banking, the merger is a victory in more ways than
one. It returns Central to the top spot in Spanish banking,
from which it was ousted by BBV in 1988, and it solves a
pressing succession problem for its chairman, who started out
as a 12-year-old messenger at a branch in his hometown of
Aguilas in southeastern Spain.
   A burly man with a cordial manner that belies an
autocratic streak, Mr. Escamez spent much of his last few
years as Central chairman resisting pressure from the
government and commercial investors to make way for a younger
man.
   Now, leaning back in his chair behind an ornately gilded
desk in his oak-paneled office, he reflects on the process
that led to the merger. The new bank, he says, "will be a
solid bank with strong capital, strong assets and strong
liquidity." As a merger between two big banks, he adds, this
is a process in which "neither one is the winner."
   In fact, the banks' merger follows three unsuccessful
attempts to combine. Central and Hispano first agreed to
merge as long ago as the mid-1960s, but their plan was
rejected by the government. Two subsequent attempts in the
early 1970s and late 1980s came to nothing, largely because
of disagreements over valuation of the banks' shares.
   Not until the fourth time around did things fall into
place. Both banks were seeking an ally to fend off perceived
threats from outside. Mr. Escamez knew his time was running
out at Central, if only because of his age. Mr. Amusategui, a
softspoken 59-year-old and a former state industry manager
who became Hispanoamericano chairman last January after six
years as deputy chairman, had just got wind that Banco de
Santander, an aggressive Spanish rival, was buying
Hispanoamericano shares. Though Santander denied any hostile
intent, Mr. Amusategui feared the worst.
   "There were certain more or less hostile moves," he
recalls. "I called {Mr. Escamez} and said it's time we met to
put an end to this problem" of on-again-off-again talks.
   A lawyer who began his business career at Altos Hornos de
Vizcaya, a northern Spanish steel company, Mr. Amusategui is
scheduled to guide Central Hispanoamericano into the
uncharted waters of the European single market. Some time
between the merged bank's first shareholders meeting,
scheduled for midyear, and the end of the year, Mr. Escamez
will retire, leaving Mr. Amusategui as the bank's sole
chairman.
   Mr. Amusategui says the merged banks "have many
complementary features." Banco Central, he says, is a
"classic institution of the universal banking type, covering
all areas of banking and with a strong industrial portfolio,"
while Hispano has veered more toward financial services.
   In preparation for the merger, the banks started work on
linking their computer systems, something Mr. Amusategui says
he hopes can be accomplished in a matter of months. And
despite the sensitivity of potential branch closures and
dismissals, they are studying how to deal with overlaps. Of a
total of 3,500 branches, Mr. Amusategui says, at least 10%
are expected to be closed, sold or transferred to subsidiary
banks.
   Nonetheless, one of Central Hispanoamericano's main
strengths will be the extensive branch network that will
remain. "This network is going to be a very strong presence"
in Spanish banking, Mr. Amusategui says.