Bush Plans to Offer Pollution Credits
   To Firms That Buy, Then Junk Old Cars
   ----
   By Bob Davis and John Harwood
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
The plan is part of a regulatory relief package for the
auto industry that the White House plans to unveil late this
week, a few days before the Michigan primary on March 17.
Details of the plan, such as which cars would qualify and
exactly how much would be paid for them, are still being
discussed.
   The Bush administration has regularly been timing the
announcement of regulatory changes that benefit industry to
coincide with important primaries. On Friday, for instance,
while the president was campaigning in Oklahoma, he announced
measures designed to prop up the ailing natural gas industry
in Oklahoma and Texas, which are to vote tomorrow.
   The auto plan is the administration's most far-reaching
proposal under its regulatory moratorium, and the first to
touch consumers directly. Along with cash for clunkers, the
White House is considering reducing the requirement for
car-fleet fuel economy to 26.5 miles per gallon from the
current 27.5 mpg. And it may give auto makers a further break
on fuel economy standards if they research and develop cars
that use methanol and other alternative fuels.
   But the fuel-economy proposals, which are expected to be
attacked by lawmakers and environmentalists, may be withdrawn
or modified. Some administration officials said car makers
are wary that these proposals could result in an
environmentalist backlash and a renewed drive for a far
tougher economy standard than the current one.
   As part of the auto package, the Energy Department is
expected to announce the formation of a research consortium,
called "Auto Leap," to map a transition from
internal-combustion-powered cars to battery-powered ones. The
department recently began a consortium to research the
batteries that would run cars.
   In addition, the Environmental Protection Agency plans to
kill a proposal that would have forced auto makers to install
special canisters in new cars to recapture gasoline vapors
that seep out during refueling. Vice President Dan Quayle,
White House economist Michael Boskin, and White House Counsel
Boyden Gray are scheduled to discuss the plan this week and
decide its final form.
   The heart of the program is the cash-for-clunker deal,
which is being prepared by the EPA. The plan is designed to
cost the federal government little, as companies looking to
reduce pollution-rules burdens and car makers trying to boost
sales would be expected to put up the money to buy the cars.
   The plan has its origins in the Clean Air Act of 1990,
which envisions reducing smog levels in polluted cities by
requiring factories and businesses there to cut emissions.
Companies that do better than the pollution standards can
earn credits, which they can then sell to companies that
can't.
   The White House now plans to broaden that plan to include
cars. Under federal supervision, states would offer pollution
credits, whose value hasn't yet been precisely determined, to
car makers or other companies, such as utilities, that buy
old cars. For example, the electric utility in Denver could
buy old cars and use the pollution credits to reduce their
own cleanups in the Denver area or sell the credits to other
businesses there. Consumers would get cash, which they could
use to buy newer cars. The trading is expected to begin in
1994.
   "You could shop your clunker around and get the best
price," says an administration official working on the plan.
This plan is designed for polluted cities and isn't expected
to apply to rural areas.
   In 1990, Unocal Corp., a Los Angeles oil company, bought
and scrapped 8,376 cars built before 1971 for $700 apiece as
part of a corporate program to reduce pollution in the Los
Angeles area -- and to show that oil companies shouldn't bear
the brunt of pollution-reduction demands. Marika Tatsutani, a
researcher at the Natural Resources Defense Council who
studied the Unocal program while she was a graduate student,
calls the program "a cost-effective way to reduce pollution."
She estimates that cars made between 1971 and 1975 emitted 20
times the amount of pollutants as cars made in 1990.
   But she and other environmentalists warned that car-buying
programs can backfire unless the government carefully weighs
the value of the pollution credit it doles out to encourage
car purchases. (Unocal didn't get any pollution credits for
its experiment.)
   She said about 10% of the cars bought by Unocal were so
old they were rarely driven. On average, the company
calculated the cars would have been driven another 16,000
miles before the owners would have junked them anyway. "If
it's done honestly as pollution control, it's a good
program," she said, "but not if it's done as a sneaky way to
get more pollution credits to industry."
   Ford Motor Co. participated in the Unocal program, buying
and junking 1,000 old cars. Al Chambers, a Ford spokesman,
said the company offered all those who sold cars in the
Unocal program a $700 coupon, in addition to the $700 they
were paid for their cars, to buy a new Ford. But only a few
hundred took the Ford offer. To enhance the Bush program, he
said, it should apply to cars built before 1983, when cars
were generally equipped with advanced catalytic converters.
"In retrospect, people who owned pre-1970 cars weren't the
group to buy new cars," he said.
   Michael Stanton, director of federal relations at the
Motor Vehicle Manufacturers Association, said the
clunker-for-cash program would benefit car makers even if
those who sold their cars then purchased newer-model used
cars. That starts a chain reaction of buying, he maintained.
"To the degree you increase demand for used cars," he said,
"people are willing to part with their used cars and buy new
ones."
   Separately, the Bush administration announced regulatory
moves on Friday that it said would help the natural gas
business. Branko Terzic, commissioner at the Federal Energy
Regulatory Commission, said the agency would give natural gas
pipeline companies the choice of replacing FERC's
conventional regulation with what he called "incentive
regulation." Currently, pipeline companies are allowed to
recover their costs plus a percentage of their investment as
profit.
   But under the new rule, pipeline companies would be able
to ask the FERC to approve other forms of regulation that
don't look primarily at profit. For instance, pipelines could
choose regulation that limits overall charges to customers,
but lets pipelines increase profits by cutting costs. The
Federal Communications Commission has chosen that method to
regulate much of telecommunications.
   For its part, the EPA also said it would issue within two
weeks a final rule allowing electric utilities to upgrade
their power plants without having to undergo time-consuming
reviews mandated under the Clean Air Act. The EPA had once
proposed tougher requirements under the so-called Wepco rule,
which is named for a case involving Wisconsin Electric Power
Co., a unit of Wisconsin Energy Corp. But the agency relented
under pressure from the White House and the Energy
Department.
   David Hawkins, a senior attorney with the Natural
Resources Defense Council and former EPA regulator, charged
that the EPA rule is a sellout to polluters. "The real effect
is to let coal-fired plants patch up boilers and continue to
burn coal without worrying about {tougher} pollution
standards," he said. But Hank Habicht, the EPA's deputy
administrator, said that easing the reviews would encourage
utlities to convert power plants so they could use
cleaner-burning natural gas.