REVIEW  OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   South Africa Chooses Hope
As South Africa moves away from apartheid as a social and
political system, it needs to move away from apartheid
economics as well. That won't be easy; one out of every three
whites, for example, is employed either by the government or
state industries. Black politicians would surely like to
start playing the patronage game as well. Of the 800,000
young people entering the work force this year, fewer than
10% can expect to find full-time jobs, so the temptation for
state featherbedding will be high.
   Yet, as the peoples of a country with four major languages
and dozens of ethnic groups find political expression, a big
government is likely to become a target of resentment. A
better option for Mr. de Klerk, Mr. Mandela and the others at
Codesa to consider is a federal system in which most
decisions are made at the local level -- "one man, many
votes" as South African author Leon Louw puts it. Federalism
would tend to marginalize the extremists. Left-wing blacks
whose philosophy is "one settler, one bullet" are unlikely to
pick up new followers if blacks begin to exercise political
control close to home. Backward-looking whites are less
likely to find a federal system less threatening to their
interests.
   In short, to dismantle the legacy of apartheid means
peeling away the layers of state control that kept it in
place. But there is little reason for South Africa to open
its economy if no one is willing to walk in. After a
generation of demonizing South Africa, the West should exert
equal energy toward making the transition work. Some 26 of
America's 50 states still impose economic sanctions on South
Africa, as well as dozens of local governments and
universities. There can no longer be any rationale for this.
   South Africa offers lots of reasons to be pessimistic, but
there also are reasons for hope. All during the referendum
campaign, Codesa continued to meet; within the next year,
South Africa will probably have an interim government that
includes blacks. Nearly 70% of Tuesday's voters were willing
to face a new future. It is a future that the West should
support with at least the same fervor it employed in
opposition to South Africa's apartheid past.