`This Line Has Been Disconnected'
   Isn't Enough to Deter Elvis Fans
   ----
   By Kevin Goldman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
In fact, the King, who would have turned 57 on Jan. 8,
appears in the lyrics of more than 150 rock, folk and rap
songs, which a radio station here plans to bring together
Sunday night in a special titled "Calling Elvis." The show
takes its name from a recently released song by the rock band
Dire Straits.
   The planned six-hour special collects all the post-mortem
mentions of the man with the blue suede shoes. Some are
obvious references, such as Frank Zappa's "Elvis Has Just
Left the Building," which was an announcement made at the
conclusion of each of the King's concerts.
   Other songs are poignant. In "Hiawatha" Laurie Anderson
sings, "Hello, operator, get me Memphis." The response: "I
know who you're trying to reach, darlin', and he's not
there." Peter Holsapple simply asks of Mr. Presley, in his
song of the same name, "Elvis, what happened?"
   There are angry songs. A group calling itself Bird says,
in "Hey Elvis," that he ain't nothin' but a hound dog for not
sharing more of his wealth with Big Boy Crudup, who wrote
Elvis's monster hit, "That's Alright Mama." (When we last
checked, Elvis wasn't around to defend himself.)
   Other titles: "Graceland," (by Paul Simon), "Elvis Was a
Narc" (by Fred Koller and Al Anderson) and "Somewhere Elvis
Is Smiling" (by Keith Bradford).
   "His spirit is out there, no doubt," says Vin Scelsa, the
host and creator of "Calling Elvis." "I assume this is only
the beginning, and there are many more songs" that mention
the King.
   As for Elvis himself, in a recording from 1966, he held
out the promise, "I'll Be Back." And "Suspicious Minds"
(released in 1968) have wondered about his fate for nearly 15
years. Mr. Scelsa says: "He was supposed to come back New
Year's Eve. Maybe he's just late."
   The show, on classic rock station WXRK-FM, is the latest
example of radio's fascination with Elvis. Two radio stations
experimented with all-Elvis-all-the-time formats. One
switched to all-business news. The other dumped the King in
favor of religion.