Big Board Chief
   Renews His Pitch
   On Foreign Stocks
   ----
   By William Power
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
There are 2,300 global companies that would qualify for a
Big Board listing. But only 108 foreign companies, those
willing to adhere to U.S. rules, trade on the exchange
currently, said Richard Grasso, the exchange's president.
   The Big Board has been trying to convince the SEC that
luring these foreign stocks is so important that it warrants
a "modification" of U.S. accounting rules.
   The SEC is worried about letting foreign companies list
their shares under different accounting standards. Bending
the accounting rules would be a "radical and profound shift"
of U.S. securities regulation, SEC Chairman Richard Breeden
has said.
   But in his most pointed comment thus far on the
controversial subject, Mr. Donaldson asserted that U.S.
accounting standards might not be all they're reputed to be.
   "It may well be that some of the foreign accounting
methods are better" than those in the U.S., Mr. Donaldson
told reporters. He said Germans are proud of their accounting
methods, and noted that U.S. standards haven't been enough to
stop fraud at some American companies. "Maybe, just maybe,
the German process of reporting every six months (instead of
quarterly) is a better one," Mr. Donaldson said.
   Mr. Donaldson conceded that if accounting rules are bent,
there is a "tradeoff" in that there might be less protection
for small investors. Still, he and Mr. Grasso said the big
foreign companies they would like to bring to the exchange
are relatively well-known so that investors won't be entirely
lacking knowledge about the companies' financial backgrounds.
   Though Messrs. Donaldson and Breeden are expected to
thrash out the issue in coming months, some on Wall Street
speculate that Congress may have to eventually settle the
matter by changing U.S. securities laws.
   Mr. Donaldson made his remarks during a series of
bicentennial events at the exchange. The exchange considers
its bicentennial to be this May 17; that's the 200th
anniversary of the signing of the Buttonwood Agreement, in
which some New York brokers agreed to charge fixed commission
rates and regulate themselves.
   And what of the Big Board 200 years from now?
   Mr. Donaldson invoked "Star Trek" imagery in praising his
exchange's high-technology systems. The securities market of
the future "won't be an unmanned spacecraft, run by
computers," he said, a reference to electronic markets that
compete with the Big Board. "It will more closely resemble a
Starship Enterprise -- computerized beyond our wildest dreams
-- but, in the American tradition, with the intelligence and
the soul of human judgment on the bridge."