Let's Have
   Real Competition
   In Phone Market
   ----
   By Robert E. Allen
The decree recognized that local telephone service was a
monopoly business and should be separated from the
competitive or potentially competitive areas of the industry
like long distance service and the manufacturing and sale of
equipment. Since the old Bell System combined all those
businesses in one vertically integrated monopoly, it had to
be broken up. ATT divested its local telephone companies,
which became the seven regional Bell operating companies, and
turned its full attention to the competitive aspects of the
market.
   This structural change brought new competitive energy to a
telecommunications system that was already the benchmark for
every other country in the world. It sparked 10 years of
record investment, a decrease of better than 40% in long
distance rates, and it provided large and small customers
with a range of choices in suppliers, services and products
that would have been barely imaginable 10 years ago.
Telecommunications is one American industry that is stronger
today than ever before.
   It is ironic, then, that a decade after the consent decree
agreement was reached, the American economy still has not
felt the full benefits of competition in the
telecommunications industry. Progress, yes, but the full
potential has been held back by lingering regulatory
restraints in the long distance industry.
   Telecommunications is usually listed among the industries
that were "deregulated." In truth, the industry was
dismantled but only partially deregulated. Competitive
restraints placed on ATT's long distance business at the
time of the Bell System break-up are still in place. ATT is
singled out for cumbersome tariff filings with the FCC before
we are allowed to reduce prices or introduce new services.
Each filing invites objections designed to delay the benefits
we're proposing.
   In 1983, the last year before the breakup of the Bell
System, ATT filed 400 tariffs. Last year we had to file
2,500. Does that sound like a deregulated industry?
   Other long distance carriers were excused from these
tariff filing requirements. The tariff filing requirement was
applied to ATT alone in the interest of protecting
(fledgling) competitors in the long distance market. Today
those competitors are multi-billion dollar corporations that
need no protection from the rigors of the open market.
   The logic of our own government limiting the strategic
benefits of full competition in long distance escapes most
people outside the Beltway, but there is an even greater
irony brewing in the market for telecommunications equipment.
   The market for network telecommunications equipment in
America has become fully competitive in the years since the
consent decree. Today, hundreds of American manufacturers are
competing with giant companies from Europe, Canada and Japan
in a market that was once dominated by ATT and its captive
equipment supplier. Yet a lobbying effort is underway in
Congress for legislation that would undo the spirit of the
consent decree by once again combining monopoly and
competitive businesses.
   The pending legislation would strip away the consent
decree's prohibition against regional Bell telephone
companies manufacturing telecommunications equipment while
they still hold a monopoly on local telephone service.
   The regional Bell companies would argue that their entry
into manufacturing would stir competition and investment. In
fact, it would be a return to the monopoly situation that the
consent decree and break-up of the Bell System were designed
to eliminate.
   Instead of having one vertically integrated monopoly with
a captive supplier, as we had in the Bell System days, we
could have seven regional monopolies with seven captive
suppliers. The temptation to buy almost exclusively from the
captive suppliers would push this industry back into the
wasteful era of antitrust suits and regulatory chaos when
market decisions were made in the courtroom and the hearing
room and the cloakroom.
   If, however, the monopoly in local telephone service were
eliminated and replaced with real competition, I'd say,
"everybody into the manufacturing pool." Let the Bell
companies into the equipment business. But combining monopoly
service with a potential monopoly in equipment sales is a
prescription for choking off competition and raising prices.
   Telecommunications manufacturing remains a bright spot in
the American economy. In high-technology equipment, by far
the biggest segment of the industry, American manufacturers
have a trade surplus that grew 400% to $862 million in 1991
from $173 million in 1988. The vigor of this industry should
not be choked off.
   The federal government can make a cost-free investment in
American productivity by removing the regulatory barriers in
long-distance and preserving the healthy competition that
already exists in telecommunications equipment. Given the
economic realities of intense foreign competition and sagging
GNP, I don't think we can afford to do less.
   ---
   Mr. Allen is chairman and CEO of ATT.