International:
   European Airline Results Prove Adage
   That Cutting Costs Will Boost Profits
   ----
   By Brian Coleman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
But as results are posted by British Airways PLC,
Lufthansa and KLM Royal Dutch Airlines, the main message is
the benefits of cutting costs. Analysts say these three
airlines represent the good, the bad and the mediocre of the
European industry's cost-cutting efforts.
   On Tuesday, Lufthansa said it might post a group loss of
as much as 400 million marks ($250 million) for 1991. That
sent its stock price into a free fall-dropping 4.7% Tuesday
and 4.5% more yesterday, when it closed at 162.8 marks in
Frankfurt. In 1990, Lufthansa had a profit of 15 million
marks.
   The grim forecast came despite a profit of 145 million
marks in the second quarter and 172 million marks in the
third quarter. The airline blames the poor performance
primarily on a disastrous first quarter, when the Persian
Gulf War led to a pretax loss of 476 million marks, and its
inability to sell used aircraft in a depressed market.
   Analysts don't dispute the negative impact of both events,
but they say a third key factor is the airline's poor
cost-cutting efforts. "They are always announcing their
intention to do so, but are they really?" asks Hans-Peter
Wodniok of James Capel  Co.'s Frankfurt office.
   That failure to act may be particularly harmful for
Lufthansa. "They run one of the highest cost bases in the
airline industry," says Mark McVicar of County NatWest in
London.
   In fact, Mr. Wodniok thinks Lufthansa may be headed for
trouble. The first quarter, with its low passenger traffic,
is typically a poor one for the airlines, and the analyst
thinks price competition may be heating up. Those factors
could further harm Lufthansa's balance sheet. It's possible,
Mr. Wodniok says, that Lufthansa's share price will fall
below 100 marks, where it traded for part of last year.
   KLM, meanwhile, releases results today for the fiscal
third quarter ended Dec. 31. Analysts expect near break-even
results, with pessimists forecasting a loss of about 50
million Dutch guilders ($27.9 million) and optimists
predicting a profit of about 30 million guilders.
   Even pessimists, such as Mr. McVicar, think those are good
results in a quarter when important markets such as the U.S.
and Japan were depressed. KLM earns most of its revenue on
long-haul flights.
   Much of the credit goes to cost-cutting at KLM. Last
February, the airline said it would cut 955 million guilders
from annual spending within three years. In the year ending
March 31, 1991, KLM's operating expenses totaled 6.84 billion
guilders.
   But James Halstead of Hoare Govett Ltd. in London points
out that despite the elimination of 567 jobs, or 15% of
nonflight personnel, a major part of KLM's program involves
keeping costs steady while increasing productivity. As a
result, KLM's savings program will take even longer to show
its full impact.
   Nonetheless, Richard Brakenhoff of Pierson, Heldring 
Pierson N.V., an Amsterdam stockbroker, expects KLM earnings
to get a boost from two other factors. He estimates that the
dollar and the yen were about 9% higher than the guilder
during the third quarter, compared with a year earlier, thus
boosting KLM's earnings in guilders. And he says the price of
jet fuel averaged about 70 cents a gallon in the quarter,
compared with about $1.20 a gallon a year earlier, saving KLM
an estimated 80 million guilders.
   Despite the positive outlook for KLM, its shares fell 1.5
guilders to 40 guilders in Amsterdam yesterday, a drop
analysts blamed on fears sparked by Lufthansa's statement a
day earlier.
   Regardless of KLM's earnings, analysts say its stock price
will be driven more by news of the cooperation talks with
British Airways. But such news isn't expected before Tuesday,
when British Airways reports its fiscal third-quarter
results.
   Analysts think the earnings report from British Airways
will be encouraging. Unlike most other European carriers, the
U.K. airline is expected to post a pretax profit in its third
quarter ended Dec. 31, with estimates ranging from #20
million ($36 million) to #70 million. In the yearearlier
quarter, British Airways reported pretax profit of #340
million.
   "They've taken such huge costs out, and they're still
taking out costs," says County NatWest's Mr. McVicar.
   British Airways was among the first to respond to the Gulf
War and recession last year. Last February, the airline said
it would trim staff by 4,600 people, or 9%. Analysts say that
and other cost-cutting efforts will prove more important than
any swings in fuel prices and exchange rates.