International:
   Berlin Newspaper Struggles to Find
   New Voice After Being a Mouthpiece
   ----
   By Timothy Aeppel
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
There was a handy system to help the editors keep their
news judgment sharp. A label instructed when a story was to
be printed without alteration, without delay -- the code
meant the author, or censor, was the party's Central
Committee.
   "You didn't need to think," says one editor, "just print."
   Those days are gone forever. Even at the height of the
Cold War, capitalism never threatened the newspaper as much
as it does today. Having lost 90% of its one million readers
since the revolution of 1989, the paper now faces the
quintessential challenge of the market economy: compete or
die.
   The paper, whose utopian name means "New Germany," has
raised its newsstand price for the first time since 1946,
shed two-thirds of its staff and closed 10 of 12 foreign
bureaus, though one that remains isn't foreign anymore. It's
in Bonn.
   The paper is even accepting advertising from companies it
once called "enemies of the working class."
   Survival is hardly assured for the former party
mouthpiece. Editors had hoped for a last-minute cash infusion
from communist party coffers. But last month they were told
they would have to make it on their own. Most of the party's
assets are now controlled by the Treuhandanstalt, the
government's privatization agency.
   "We've been cut adrift without a single mark," says
Wolfgang Spickermann, the newspaper's editor. But the reason,
he says, has more to do with political grudges than market
economics.
   To be sure, many politicians in Bonn hope Neues
Deutschland will collapse under the weight of its own
history. But it won't go quietly. When the Treuhand seized
control of the paper this summer, editors retaliated by
adding a line over the masthead reading: "The only newspaper
under direct government control." Bonn backed off.
   Reading Neues Deutschland today, it's hard to imagine it
was once the epitome of Stalinist journalism. A recent
front-page report -- taken straight from a Western news
agency -- recounted the latest bloodshed in Yugoslavia. On
the anniversary of unification in October, the paper bent
over backward to show good and bad sides of the merger. It
was a far cry from the edition the day after the Berlin Wall
was opened: It carried a curt report on page one about the
announcement of new travel regulations.
   "We have to watch ourselves constantly, to make sure we
don't slip back into writing about things in black and
white," says Managing Editor Reinhard Goetze.
   Changes are also visible at the daily 9 a.m. news meeting
in the wood-paneled conference room. A big picture of former
leader Erich Honecker greeting workers has disappeared. The
trophy cases, once packed with gifts from fellow socialist
nations, are bare. And a sort of rap session has replaced
once-rigid meetings where each top editor spent a few minutes
reeling off marching orders. "It was a farce," Mr. Goetze
admits.
   While the paper still belongs to the Party of Democratic
Socialism -- the renamed successors of East Germany's
communists -- top editors say they no longer allow the party
to influence editorial policy. The paper is now a voice for
"all democratic leftist forces." Direct censorship collapsed
shortly after the Wall did.
   Whatever may be said of its past, the overriding issue at
Neues Deutschland today has come down to money. Editors asked
the Treuhand for six million marks ($3.9 million), to be
drawn from party assets seized after unification. The
Treuhand agreed, but an independent oversight commission
refused to sign the check, citing the German constitution,
which forbids the state from getting involved directly in
setting up newspapers.
   Treuhand officials say the only solution now is for the
PDS to step in. Afterall, the paper belongs to them. But the
PDS says it doesn't have the money either.
   But some Treuhand officials complain the paper is also
suffering from bad management. "They've been slow to cut
costs, even though it's been clear they needed to," says
Josef Dierdorf, the Treuhand official overseeing communist
assets.
   Indeed, the paper is torn between factions who either
fight to defend the past or who want to adapt to the new
realities.
   "Just that we still exist is a surprise to me," says Mr.
Oschmann, the former London bureau chief. In his office off
the newsroom, he keeps stacks of Western newspapers and a
poster of John Lennon -- all evidence, he says, that some
staffers knew about the outside world.
   Among the new realities they must face is stiff
competition from both western German papers and feisty new
eastern papers. A newspaper war is raging on the streets of
Berlin, as well as in other east German cities, which are
still Neues Deutschland's main circulation targets. Seven
dailies are fighting for Berlin alone. One splashy
eastern-grown tabloid, "Super," has made its mark by accusing
the west of colonizing the region and bringing in social
problems, such as unemployment and AIDS.
   The paper is doing things it wouldn't have dreamed of
before, including issuing an appeal for donations. The appeal
has brought in 700,000 marks so far. And even before formal
unity, the paper began carrying advertising, including from
such companies as Volkswagen and Fiat, which were eager to
sell to the emerging market, regardless of party loyalties.
   "To survive, we'll take whatever we can get," says Mr.
Goetze, the managing editor. "We won't take advertisements
for sex shops, but that's about the only limit."