Who's News:
   Bush Fires NASA Administrator Truly
   After Dispute Over Management, Policy
   ----
   By Bob Davis
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Space officials inside NASA and other agencies said that
the White House criticized Mr. Truly for being unwilling to
delegate authority. Largely as a result, the officials said,
about a half-dozen candidates turned down job offers from
NASA to fill the vacant post of deputy administrator. Rather
than continue looking for a No. 2 person at NASA, the
president decided to fire Mr. Truly and start a search for a
new team to head NASA. Officials said the White House hasn't
yet begun looking for a successor to Mr. Truly.
   The firing also underscores an increasingly fractious
dispute over the direction of U.S. space policy. The National
Space Council, headed by Vice President Quayle, has been
pushing NASA for three years to yield some of its power over
the U.S. space program. The Space Council's staff believes
that NASA has grown too bureaucratic over the years and
should be able to launch missions much more quickly and
cheaply than NASA has managed.
   The Space Council successfully pressured NASA to redesign
its plan to monitor climate change on Earth by launching a
large number of relatively inexpensive satellites, instead of
a half-dozen huge ones, which would have cost $3 billion
each. The Space Council also recruited a veteran of the
Pentagon's Strategic Defense Initiative to head the agency's
exploration unit and plan a series of cheap, quick, unmanned
missions to the moon.
   "Truly believed the Space Council wanted to get involved
in day-to-day management (of NASA) to an extent he didn't
want," said a senior NASA official.
   The White House and NASA tried to paper over the
differences by releasing letters from President Bush and Mr.
Truly that make it seem as if the NASA administrator had
resigned on his own initiative. In his letter, Mr. Truly said
that he was resigning "with the deepest regret," adding that
he has been "unbelievably privileged to have had so many
challenging assignments in aviation, space flight" and other
areas.
   In return, President Bush said that he accepted Mr.
Truly's resignation with "deep regret." The president added
in his letter that "as a result of your leadership, NASA is
better prepared for the 1990s and beyond."
   But at 3 p.m. yesterday, about an hour before the letters
were made public, Mr. Truly called together his senior staff
at NASA headquarters as well as directors of NASA centers,
who were linked by video teleconference. He told the group
that President Bush had requested his resignation, according
to some who attended the meeting. But Mr. Truly didn't give
any reasons for the president's request or offer any
speculation. He then asked if any of the group had questions,
but none volunteered any.
   "The Space Council certainly won a battle," said a NASA
veteran, after watching Mr. Truly's remarks.
   Mr. Truly's departure comes as a surprise because he and
the president were thought to be personal friends. Mr. Truly,
54 years old, a veteran NASA astronaut, headed the successful
effort to redesign the space shuttle after the Challenger
exploded in January 1986, killing seven astronauts and
stunning the nation. In 1989, he was named as administrator.
   During his tenure, the shuttle has worked safely and
NASA's Voyager spacecraft completed a spectacular journey to
Neptune. But the agency was sharply criticized when it
launched the $2.1 billion Hubble Space Telescope, despite a
severe design flaw. It faces another fiasco with its Galileo
spacecraft, now flying to Jupiter, which has a stuck antenna
and may not be able to deliver much useful data when it
reaches the planet in 1995.
   The Bush administration expected NASA to recreate the elan
of the Apollo years -- despite constant budget battles in
Congress. The president committed himself to landing
astronauts on Mars within 30 years, but NASA wasn't able to
come up with a program that it could sell to Congress or the
American public. Indeed, NASA's $500 billion estimate for the
job was considered so politically damaging that the Space
Council initially tried to keep the estimate secret.