Education:
   Schools Teach the Virtues of Virginity
   ----
   By Sonia L. Nazario
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
"Do the right thing] Wait for the ring]" she chants,
forming both hands into a "C" for chastity, then clasping
them together to mimic interlocking wedding bands. Her
public-school classmates, some giggling, repeat the "chastity
pledge" in unison as teacher Bonnie Park urges them on.
   "The only safe sex is no sex," says Mrs. Park, whose
school last year embraced Sex Respect, a federally funded,
10-session course that stresses abstinence and the pitfalls
of premarital sex and is silent about potentially
controversial topics such as use of contraceptives, adultery,
homosexuality and pornography.
   By adopting the course, the Hemet Unified School District
has allied itself with one of two camps in the battle over
what form of sex education to provide. Hemet and hundreds of
other districts say past educational initiatives have failed
to get teens to use contraceptives and have even encouraged
teen sex. They believe that adopting one of at least 15
abstinence-focused curricula now available can instill the
value of self-control.
   But at least as many districts, along with some major
education and health groups, call the increasingly popular
abstinence-only approach unrealistic. Ignorance about
contraception and other important topics, they say, will
boost the rate of teens getting pregnant or contracting HIV,
the virus that causes AIDS. With condom-giveaway programs and
courses centered on birth control, these districts have taken
a far different approach to sex education than those
advocating self-control.
   "We're having a civil war of values over teen sexuality
and schools," says Anne Newman, director of the Texas Council
for Family Values, who strongly believes premarital sex is
morally wrong and leads to wrecked marriages. At a
schoolboard debate between opposing sides in Jacksonville,
Fla., security officers were on hand in case tempers flared.
   "If my son contracts AIDS for not having the right
information, I couldn't live with myself," says Carol McShane
of East Troy, Wis., who opposes Sex Respect.
   But Darlene Marshall, president of the Acacia
Parent-Teacher Association, is delighted that her daughter
Amber, 14, has taken the course. "My daughter will probably
remain chaste until marriage because of this program," she
says.
   Clearly, there's a need for something that works. A
Centers for Disease Control survey last month indicated that
40% of young people have sex by the ninth grade. Here at
Acacia Middle School, in a predominantly middle-class
community nestled in the San Jacinto mountains, an average of
two students get pregnant each year, some as young as 11. One
in seven teens nationwide contracts a sexually transmitted
disease, and a growing number are infected with HIV. The cost
to aid families of teen mothers is $21.6 billion annually.
   Most parents give their children only a perfunctory
"zippers up" speech, says the PTA's Mrs. Marshall. "When I
say menstruation, the girls blush and half the boys have no
idea what I'm talking about," adds Acacia teacher Gayle
Siebke. She says her students believe they can't get pregnant
the first time they have intercourse.
   Bonnie Park's class begins by teaching that premarital sex
can lead to emotional turmoil, disease, pregnancy and guilt
-- lessons the students reinforce by making bumper stickers
with slogans such as "Don't be a louse, wait for your
spouse." A Sex Respect chart of physical intimacy marks a
"prolonged kiss" as the "beginning of danger," and the course
warns, "No petting if you want to be free."
   Mrs. Park teaches her students how to set limits, how to
sharpen their refusal skills to counter peer pressure and how
to plan dates to avoid "dangerous situations." She reinforces
the view that virginity is positive and that condoms can be
the road to ruin, saying that many prophylactics fail. To
demonstrate condom unreliability, Acacia students pour water
into balloons with pinpoint holes.
   "The message teens always get is: `Everyone is doing it,'"
says Acacia teacher Flora Johnson. "We're trying to counter
that."
   While some students say they find the classes more amusing
than instructive, others take the lessons to heart. "I don't
think I'll have sex before marriage," vows Nathan Burns, 13,
after Mrs. Park's class. "Now, when anyone pressures me into
having sex, I can think twice, say no, and not feel like a
loser," writes student Danielle Devereaux in a homework
essay.
   Sex Respect, now being taught in 1,800 schools, was
launched after Congress appropriated money for
abstinence-education programs a decade ago. The AIDS epidemic
has led 17 states to order the teaching of sex education; of
that group, 15 require that abstinence be emphasized. The
Supreme Court in 1987 rejected a suit charging that federal
funds given to religious groups to launch abstinence-focused
courses constitute the teaching of religious values and thus
violate the Constitution.
   "We brought in an abstinence-only program because parents
will accept it," says Acacia principal Karen Doshier, who
tried for more than 20 years to get her district to adopt
some sort of sex-education program. Other districts have
adopted abstinence curricula after parents rebelled against
more explicit sex-education approaches.
   "You undo the abstinence message if you talk about
contraception in the classroom," says LeAnna Benn, executive
director of Teen Aid Inc., the other main curriculum that
focuses on abstinence.
   Still, some educators are dubious. "How can I stand up
there and preach abstinence when these kids' parents are
living with someone but aren't married?" asks Acacia teacher
Ms. Johnson. (She tells students they shouldn't engage in
sexual activities outside of long-term, monogamous
relationships.) Mrs. Siebke wonders how she will reply if one
day a student whose mother has had three live-in boyfriends
asks if she should condemn her mother for not being
abstinent.
   Educators in Hemet and elsewhere fear the psychological
consequences for children who are inculcated with the horrors
of premarital sex but still break their chastity pledge,
although the course also teaches "secondary virginity" (which
encourages teens who have had sexual experiences to return to
celibacy).
   Parents in many districts are fighting to stop abstinence
programs. In Beaufort County, S.C., a third of parents
initially pulled their children from the Sex Respect class,
and 2,500 parents, educators and students signed a petition
condemning it. (Schools continued to teach the course but
augmented it with additional materials.)
   In Enfield, Conn., the school district started a Sex
Respect pilot program, then rejected it after parents
complained that it taught fear, guilt and shame. The school
board opted instead to teach about contraception as early as
seventh grade.
   In Clayton County, Ga., and East Troy, Wis., parents
enlisted the American Civil Liberties Union to help battle
abstinence-only curricula. "Since the beginning of time,
unmarried people have had sex," says Georgia ACLU executive
director Teresa Nelson. "Teaching them ignorance isn't the
answer."
   Carol McShane, the East Troy parent who has fought
unsuccessfully against the program, says she opposes Sex
Respect because she believes it equates abortion with killing
and also is homophobic. She adds that the course promotes
sexual stereotypes, portraying boys as hormone-crazed
predators who, the course text says, "aggressively seek
sexual release with whatever partner they can persuade or
force to accommodate them."
   "Sex Respect teaches that males are out of control," Mrs.
McShane says. "That's not a message I want my sons to learn."
   (See related letter: "Letters to the Editor: It's Wrong to
Teach Fear of Sex" -- WSJ March 20, 1992)
   920220-0113