Foreign Exchange:
   Dollar Slips Against Mark and Pound
   But Rises Against Yen in Quiet Trading
   ----
   By John van Rosendaal
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
The dollar advanced against the yen, breaking through
resistance at 126 yen. The U.S. unit hovered below that level
last week, as traders feared central bank intervention and
massive selling by Japanese market participants might result
if they tried to take the dollar higher. In late New York
trading, the dollar was changing hands at 126.20 yen, up from
125.78 yen late Friday.
   Dealers held the dollar in narrow ranges throughout the
day, a marked difference from last week's rumor-fed
volatility.
   In early trading in Tokyo Tuesday, the dollar was at
126.05 yen, up from 125.65 at Monday's close. Meanwhile, the
U.S. currency was trading at 1.5967 marks, down from 1.6053
marks on Monday.
   Overall, traders said the market is still confused about
the long-term trend for the dollar, as no major country's
economy shows a clear direction.
   Dealers don't expect the market to make major moves before
Friday, when U.S. employment data for January will be
released. These are seen as the first key indicators of U.S.
economic performance since the Federal Reserve cut its
discount rate to 3.5% on Dec. 20. Dismal figures might lead
the Fed to lower rates once again, and the Fed has been under
administration pressure to ease further.
   The dollar drifted down in Asian trading. After news early
in the European day that a strike in the German steel sector
had been averted by a wage settlement, the dollar rose
quickly to 1.6075 marks from 1.6020 marks.
   But the U.S. currency failed to show a clear trend and
didn't hold onto its gains, as opinions on the impact of the
German wage settlement were divided.
   German steel employers and unions reached a compromise for
a preliminary settlement based on an initial across-the-board
wage increase of 5.9%, retroactive to last Nov. 1. The full
package equals an increase of 6.35% with a one-time
supplement to each worker and other gradual increases.
   The steel pact, which could set a pattern for other wage
negotiations, is more generous than the increase of less than
5% that many analysts said would cause the least economic and
inflationary damage to western Germany's already slowing
economy. Unions for public sector employees and bank workers,
meanwhile, said they won't change their goal of seeking 9.5%
to 10.5% wage increases.
   Some analysts considered the steel industry's wage
increases as steep and possibly detrimental to the German
economy, which would hurt the mark and boost the dollar. But
others focused on the expectation that the Bundesbank will
keep interest rates at their current relatively high levels
to fight the inflation threat, a move that typically hurts
the dollar.
   It is unclear, however, how important the wage increases
are in the minds of German central bank officials. Bundesbank
officials have tried repeatedly to limit speculation about
any imminent easing of monetary policy by saying that the
German inflation rate is far too high.
   U.S. traders, while recognizing that the wage settlement
wasn't overtly bullish for the dollar, said it had diminished
speculation that German rates would rise further. The news
was "somewhat favorable" for the dollar, said Joe Sabbagh,
chief trader at European American Capital Corp.
   With the market uncertain how to read the developments in
Germany, the dollar later took its cue from negative figures
on the U.S. economy. The National Association of Purchasing
Management's monthly index was unchanged in January at 47.4%,
compared with market expectations of 47.8%. A reading below
50% indicates that the manufacturing segment of the economy
is generally declining.
   For all of 1991, U.S. construction spending totaled
$404.89 billion, off 10% in inflation-adjusted dollars from
1990. That is the lowest level since 1985, when $377.4
billion was spent on construction. The drop was the steepest
since a decline of 36.6% in 1944.