Year-End Review of Markets and Finance:
   Partnerships'
   Sales Continue
   To Fall Sharply
   ----
   By Karen Slater
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
And the outlook isn't bright. Partnership "has become a
four-letter word -- no one wants to hear it in polite
company," says Robert A. Stanger, president of the
Shrewsbury, N.J., firm that tracks partnership activity. His
prediction for 1992 sales is "continued deterioration and
further declines."
   Spencer Jefferies, president of Partnership Profiles Inc.,
says it's ominous that 1991's tumbling interest rates didn't
spur investors to buy partnerships, as happened in earlier
periods of low rates. "If anything shows how bad things are
in the partnership business, that does," the head of the
Dallas research firm says.
   Limited partnerships give holders an ownership interest in
assets such as office buildings, airplanes or oil fields.
Many were designed as tax shelters before the tax advantages
were curtailed in 1986. Most are now structured to provide
income.
   But what many investors have gotten is disappointment. "A
lot of these things did not provide the yields that, going
in, were promised," says Richard Ruffine, manager of
partnership activities at Merrill Lynch & Co. The reasons
include the tax changes, the sharp downturn in the real
estate market, and the high commissions and fees that were
built into many partnerships.
   Adding to the pain, many partnerships aren't being
terminated in the seven to 10 years the sponsors of these
illiquid securities had predicted. Holders who sell in the
informal resale, or "secondary," market often find they can
get only 30 cents or 40 cents for each dollar originally
paid.
   As partnership sales have slumped, many sponsors have gone
out of business. Others are moving to repackage their wares
with different names. "We have to get around the word
`partnership,'" says David K. Zonker, president of Jones
International Securities Ltd., the dealer and manager for
Jones cable-television partnerships.
   Mr. Zonker says the Jones organization, based in
Englewood, Colo., saw its sales fall to about $40 million in
1991 from $160 million two years earlier -- even though
recently liquidated programs gave investors annualized
returns of around 20%. Jones is seeking approval from the
Securities and Exchange Commission to structure its next
offering as a Delaware business trust, a vehicle that will
function much like a partnership but will, Jones hopes, sell
better.
   Similarly, real estate sponsors such as W.P. Carey & Co.
in New York and Krupp Cos. in Boston have shifted from
partnerships to "finite-life real estate investment trusts,"
which the Stanger firm includes in its partnership sales
figures. Krupp's sales are down from a few years ago but are
higher "by a factor of five or six" than they would be in
partnership form, says Ross V. Keeler, president of Krupp
Securities Co.
   While sales of all types of partnerships fell in 1991, the
category that suffered the least was commodities programs.
These differ from real estate and other traditional
partnerships in holding financial instruments -- and in
giving holders the ability to liquidate their holdings at net
asset value, usually once a month. That's a big attraction at
a time when investors are loath to tie up their money.
   Merrill Lynch didn't see enough demand to sponsor any new
real estate or other traditional programs in 1991. And "most
likely we won't do any" in 1992 either, Mr. Ruffine says. But
the firm is an active sponsor of commodities partnerships,
raising about $250 million last year.