China Grants
   U.S. Ship Lines
   More Privileges
   ----
   By Stephen F. Stine
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Gary Gilbert, Sea-Land's vice president for Asia, said the
agreement "will help us establish more competitive feeder
services {between Chinese, Hong Kong and Japanese ports} and
allow us to reduce rates and overall shipping costs."
   Sea-Land and APL will begin converting their
representative offices throughout China into wholly
foreign-owned enterprises, earning them the right to
negotiate improved shipping rates, handle shipping documents,
collect payments, and, when necessary, use their own vessels
for shipments between Chinese and foreign ports.
   Analysts said they now expect other foreign governments
will ask China to extend the same privileges to their
countries' shipping concerns.
   Prior to last week's agreement, China required all foreign
shipping lines to use government-appointed or
government-controlled agents. According to one analyst,
foreign concerns have been effectively "held hostage" by
these agents who unilaterally set shipping rates, selected
vessels and determined timetables for merchandise delivery.
"The system has been extremely inefficient. They {Chinese
agents} simply don't have the appreciation for service
standards our customers elsewhere in the world are accustomed
to," said a spokesman for APL's China division.
   The system also has favored Chinese shipping lines over
foreign lines. About 30% of China's seagoing imports and
exports are carried by Chinese vessels, while 13% and 11% are
handled by Sea-Land and APL, respectively. Other foreign
shipping lines account for the rest.
   Rates between Chinese ports and transshipment centers in
Hong Kong and Japan are significantly higher than charges on
routes of comparable distance between other ports in Asia.
The APL spokesman said that under the new arrangement,
shipping rates to and from China may be reduced as much as
20%.
   Observers said that while the timing of the license
approvals and the breakthrough last week in U.S.-China trade
talks on protection of intellectual property, copyrights and
trade secrets was coincidental, it indicates China's
commitment to further open its markets to foreign goods and
services.