Law -- Legal Beat:
   Westinghouse Request to Dismiss
   Lawsuit by Philippines Is Denied
   ----
   By Gabriella Stern and Arthur S. Hayes
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
Pittsburgh-based Westinghouse says that if it loses the
case and damages are assessed, it stands to lose as much as
$17 million. The Philippine government, however, says it will
attempt to get punitive damages in the hundreds of millions
of dollars.
   Westinghouse had based its request for pretrial summary
judgment on a December ruling by an arbitration panel of the
International Chamber of Commerce that cleared the company of
the bribery charges.
   In his decision, however, Judge Debevoise said the
arbitration panel held the Philippine government to a more
rigorous standard of proof than a federal jury would in
weighing evidence. The panel based its ruling on the "clear
and convincing evidence" standard, while a jury would use
"the preponderance of the evidence," he said. The judge noted
that in an earlier ruling he had written that "there is ample
evidence to permit a reasonable jury to find" evidence of
bribery.
   In addition to employing a different standard of proof,
Judge Debevoise said the international panel considered
several distinctly different issues from those in the lawsuit
before his court. He also said he doesn't believe the panel's
ruling is binding on the Philippine government.
   A Westinghouse spokesman expressed disappointment in the
judge's decision and said the company is "confident" it will
be cleared of the charges, adding, "We're fully prepared for
trial."
   ---
   TRADEMARK APPLICATION for condom raises novel free-speech
question.
   A condom maker who unsuccessfully sought to get trademark
registration from the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office for
his logo has filed an appeal, saying his right to free speech
under the First Amendment has been violated.
   According to a brief filed last week with the office's
Trademark Trial and Appeal Board, an examiner rejected an
application filed by Old Glory Condom Corp., Provincetown,
Mass., because the association of a flag design with condoms
would be contrary to the flag's symbolism of "courage and
patriotism." Old Glory's logo consists of a U.S.
flag-inspired red, white and blue pennant combined with the
words, "Old Glory."
   In a ruling last year, examiner Rachel Blue, a trademark
attorney, said, "The connection of such a symbol to items
irrefutably linked to sexual activity would scandalize most
members of the public." Ms. Blue's ruling was based on an
interpretation of a section of the federal trademark law that
permits denial if a trademark is deemed scandalous or
immoral.
   David Cole, a Georgetown University Law Center professor
and lawyer with the Center for Constitutional Rights in New
York, which represents Old Glory, said the ruling should be
reversed because the government "may not deny valuable
benefits based on political content of a speaker's message."
In her ruling, Ms. Blue said that "this use of the flag is
considered commercial speech and as such is not entitled to
the same protection as political speech."
   Mr. Cole also attacked the section of the trademark law
that allows denial based on a finding of scandalousness or
immorality as unconstitutional on its face because of "the
impossibility of defining a national standard of scandalous
or immoral."
   Without trademark protection, the company can still use
the logo, but it can't block others from copying it for their
own products.
   A spokesman for the trademark office declined to comment
because the case is still pending.
   ---
   HOW-TO-AUTHORS copied rival's book, judge rules.
   A federal district judge in Cleveland set a preliminary
injunction against further sales or promotion of "How to
Protect Your Life Savings From Catastrophic Illness and
Nursing Homes," a 1990 book advocating Medicaid trusts. The
book and its co-author, Boston lawyer and newspaper columnist
Harley Gordon, have been cited in several major newspapers
and recently were featured on NBC's "Today" show.
   Judge Alice M. Batchelder ruled that tables used in the
book reflected "slavish copying" from tables in a 1989 book,
"Avoiding the Medicaid Trap: How to Beat the Catastrophic
Costs of Nursing Home Care," by Cleveland lawyer and
newspaper columnist Armond D. Budish. Both books' tables show
state-by-state Medicaid rules.
   The decision, copyright lawyers said, may help further
define a recent U.S. Supreme Court ruling that compilations
of facts, such as telephone books, can't be copyrighted
unless they're put together in an original way. The judge
found that Mr. Budish "chose pertinent data and discarded
what he felt was unnecessary data to create his own original
tables."
   Mr. Gordon said he didn't know whether he would appeal.
   ---
   NOTED: A state court in Hennepin County, Minn., blocked
county officials from melting down 5,000 firearms collected
under a cash-for-guns program, the Associated Press reported.
The judge halted the meltdown minutes before it was to begin
so that the guns, which had already been taken apart, could
be checked to see whether they had been stolen. Two private
gun owners sought the order, saying they believed weapons
that had been stolen from them were among the ones to be
destroyed. The "Drop Your Guns" program paid people $50 a gun
to turn in their weapons, no questions asked. But the
plaintiffs' lawyer said the county has a legal obligation to
return stolen guns to their rightful owners.
   (See related letter: "Letters to the Editor: Old Glory
Condom's Trademark Protection" -- WSJ March 16, 1992)
   920206-0064