MARKETING -- Focus on Japan
   ----
   By Yumiko Uno
WHILE THE U.S. advertising industry endures its worst
slump in decades, Japanese advertising agencies also face
sober times.
   Ad spending in Japan, which jumped 12% in 1989 and 9.8% in
1990, is estimated to have risen just 2.5% last year, to 3.66
trillion yen ($29.7 billion). At five of Japan's top 10 ad
agencies, October billings fell from a year earlier.
   "It's just getting worse and worse," says Yoshihiro Saito,
president of Japan's Advertising Economics Research
Institute, which follows industry trends. In the previous few
years, Mr. Saito says, billings grew twice as fast as the
nation's economy.
   Gone are the days when companies waited for months to
secure ad time on television and space in newspapers, and
responded willingly to big increases in ad rates. After a
series of financial scandals last summer demonstrated the
excesses of Japan's so-called bubble economy, "companies are
all looking for more cost-effective means of doing the same
things," says Caroline Kawashima, corporate communications
director for McCann-Erickson Worldwide.
   Sony is running an expensive TV ad featuring Michael
Jackson, but is cutting back on print ads. "We have to be
very very selective," a spokesman says. Toyota Motor, which
has been hit by falling domestic and U.S. sales, plans to
spend less on advertising in Japan this year.
   Advertising executives expect only 3% growth in billings
for 1992. A spokesman for Dentsu, Japan's biggest ad agency,
says: "For the medium term, companies are taking a rest."
                                                                                                       

   Hangover Drugs Keep
   Office Parties Going
                                                                                                       

   FOR THOSE times when duty demands it, Japanese drug makers
offer hangover remedies that they promise will soothe the
stomach enough for yet another round of drinks.
   "Take this before you eat and drink," advertises Cabe-2
Kowa, a popular medicine in powder form introduced recently
by drug maker Kowa. "You'll wonder whatever happened to that
hangover." It promises to coat the beaten stomach with a
thick enough layer of protection to allow further imbibing.
   Frequent nights out drinking with colleagues have created
a huge market in Japan for stomach remedies; annual sales
reached 60 billion yen last year. Sales surge in December and
January, which for most managers are packed with obligatory
end-of-year and beginning-of-year drinking parties with
office mates, clients and old school classmates. Some people
attend several in a single night.
   To ease consumers' distress, pharmaceutical companies
promote pre-drinking protection, as well as remedies in
liquid and pill form. Daiichi Pharmaceutical last year
introduced Kuromaru, a 970-yen box of 57 pills that contain
Chinese herbs and cow liver extract. If taken before
consuming alcohol, says a Daiichi salesman, the pills
"restrain alcohol absorption in the stomach." The company
aims to double this year's sales to one million packages.
   The products are cleared by the Ministry of Health and
Welfare and sold over the counter in drugstores. For the most
part, drug companies don't claim a single pill will cure a
hangover. But groggy managers would rather be prepared than
not.
   "You might ask, why drink when you feel so bad?" says a
Kowa spokesman, who estimates that the company's sales for
stomach-related drugs last year surpassed three billion yen.
"But there are times when you can't get by with that excuse."
                                                                                                       

   Heaters Promise Control
   Of Very Local Climates
                                                                                                       

   HEATERS in Japanese homes may not provide a lot of warmth,
but there's one for every nook and cranny.
   Only 5% of Japanese houses are centrally heated. So, an
average household in some parts of Japan has seven heating
devices, says Matsushita Electric Industrial, Japan's biggest
household electric appliance maker.
   "People think it's a waste to heat the whole room," says
Mitsuharu Kawase, general manager of Matsushita's life-style
research center. "If you have to leave the room in 15
minutes, you tend to use the regional devices."
   Popular heating gadgets don't stop with high-tech kerosene
heaters, which have computer controls making possible up to
1,350 combinations of air flow and heating power. Consumers
also can buy electric slippers, vests, 13,000-yen electric
hot pants and an 8,000-yen electric Hello Kitty doll to
cuddle up with. The more traditionally minded can stick their
feet under "kotatsu," wooden tables covered with blankets
that feature electric heating coils under the table surface.
   For those worried about smelly feet, some newer kotatsu,
costing up to 160,000 yen, have infrared rays meant to kill
odor-producing germs. Heating devices for toilet seat covers
also have added smell-removing devices.
   Sanyo Electric wins the luxury prize for its 6-by-7
1/2-foot Persian silk carpet, intended to cover a heated mat
below. The carpet, which sells for two million yen, is
designed to transfer heat efficiently to those sitting on it.
                                                                                                       

   Odds and Ends
                                                                                                       

   LIQUEURS for sweet tooths: Suntory introduces Cookies and
Cream liqueur, which tastes like chocolate cookies, and
LemonPie Cream liqueur. . . . Mountain bikes catch on in
Japan. Sales, including imports, rose 50% last year to
900,000 units, the Japan Bicycle Manufacturers' Association
estimates.