International:
   Ally of Miyazawa
   Arrested in Japan
   On Bribery Charge
Although none of the media reports on Mr. Abe has linked
Mr. Miyazawa personally or other politicians to the bribery
allegations, the charges nevertheless have become a major
embarrassment for the prime minister as the case grew into
one of the biggest scandals here since an influence-peddling
scheme forced Noboru Takeshita to resign as prime minister in
1989.
   The Tokyo district prosecutor's office, in keeping with
established practice, declined to comment on the case. The
Miyazawa faction's office said it had been informed of the
arrest. Mr. Abe was unavailable for comment.
   His arrest was the first of a member of Japan's Parliament
since 1976, when former Prime Minister Kakuei Tanaka was
arrested on charges of receiving a multimillion dollar bribe
for helping Lockheed Corp. sell airplanes. That conviction is
still under appeal.
   According to Japanese news reports, Mr. Abe allegedly used
his influence as director-general of the Hokkaido Development
Agency to help Kyowa win construction contracts in Hokkaido,
the northernmost of Japan's four main islands. The reports
charge that Mr. Abe provided Kyowa -- which has since
declared bankruptcy -- with blueprints of plans for a highway
to be built in the region.
   A man linked to Mr. Abe, former Kyowa vice president Goro
Moriguchi, is on trial in connection with an alleged $29
million swindle involving advance payments from trading
companies. News reports alleged Mr. Abe accepted money and
other favors, including the chance to meet with his favorite
actress, Yoko Yamamoto, from Mr. Moriguchi for helping to
conceal the fraudulent deals.
   In the late 1980s, Mr. Miyazawa and other senior political
leaders received thousands of bargain-priced shares of stock
in a subsidiary of Recruit Co., an information conglomerate.
Although the scandal forced Mr. Takeshita to resign as prime
minister, and Mr. Miyazawa stepped down as finance minister,
most of the implicated politicians did not face court
charges. They said they had been absolved when they won
re-election last year. Some trials are still pending.