Marketing:
   Demographics Fuel Adult-Diaper Sales
   ----
   By Gabriella Stern
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
For such companies as Kimberly-Clark Corp., Procter 
Gamble Co. and Johnson  Johnson, the discomfort of so many
Americans translates into soaring sales. Revenue from
incontinence products jumped nearly 50% to $745 million last
year from $500 million in 1988, according to Medical
Disposables Co., Marietta, Ga., which makes MaxiCare
incontinence products.
   The companies and industry analysts expect the rapid
growth to continue. "We're talking about doubling the market
in the next five years," says Sherman Chao, a Salomon
Brothers Inc. analyst.
   But manufacturers face a tricky marketing challenge as
they set out to promote adult diapers: Though more Americans
may need them, they don't necessarily want to be reminded of
that need. TV ads for incontinence products remain rare, and
those that do appear are quite low key. Mr. Chao observes
that while manufacturers are starting to "break through the
barrier, incontinence is still an unmentionable type of
product in most consumers' minds, like sanitary napkins were
unmentionable in the '50s and '60s."
   Kimberly-Clark, the No. 1 retailer of such products, has
used the same endorser for a decade, actress June Allyson,
who urges people with incontinence to "Get back to life]" In
ads now running nationwide, Ms. Allyson reads letters from
satisfied users of Kimberly-Clark's Depend pads and panties.
Viewers see actors portraying these correspondents, happily
socializing with family and friends.
   Kimberly-Clark recently began reaching out to a younger
clientele. One ad features a fortyish woman clad in flowing
white attire pitching Poise light incontinence pads.
   Marketing of these products, discreet as it remains, has
become much more direct. Cheryl B. Gartley, president of the
nonprofit Simon Foundation for Continence, Chicago, says that
historically, incontinent people purchased pads and panties
surreptitiously at medical-equipment stores and through
mail-order services. Many have relied on feminine napkins and
even baby diapers, either because they've been unaware that
special incontinence care products existed or too embarrassed
to purchase them. A sizable number of incontinent people have
curbed their activities rather than seek help.
   Manufacturers' efforts to expand the market are helping to
make incontinence less taboo. Ms. Gartley worries, however,
that companies aren't doing enough to inform people of
surgical and nonsurgical remedies for incontinence. "The
industry has been savvy enough to discover the need and
attempt to fill it," she says. "The down side is that often
people see the products and the ads and feel this is the only
solution."
   The biggest consumers of adult diapers have been
institutions such as hospitals and nursing homes, which last
year accounted for 60% of the market, or $445 million of
annual sales, according to Nonwovens Markets Publication.
PG's Attend products have long been the leader in this
category, controlling at least 40% of the institutional
market, industry officials say.
   But the retail market is now growing faster and may soon
surpass institutional sales. Susan Godsey, a marketing
consultant who specializes in incontinence products, says
retail sales are growing 35% a year, while institutional
sales are rising 12% annually.
   In retail sales, Kimberly-Clark is far and away the market
leader, with a 46% share. That's down from 49% in 1990
because of increased competition, particularly in
fast-growing "light incontinence" pads. Johnson  Johnson,
New Brunswick, N.J., has 14% of the market with its
two-year-old line of Serenity products, while PG's Attends
has a 13% share, says Mr. Chao, the analyst.
   Second-tier players in the incontinence-care market
include Scott Paper Co., Philadelphia, which makes Promise
products; DriPride, a unit of Weyerhaeuser Co., Tacoma,
Wash.; Whitestone Products Corp., Piscataway, N.J.; and ICD
Industries, King of Prussia, Pa., which makes private-label
products.
   Big or small, manufacturers are starting to innovate.
Principal Business Enterprises Inc., Dunbridge, Ohio, claims
that its Tranquility products are most gentle on the skin. In
North Brunswick, N.J., Humanicare International Inc. says its
Dignity pads and panties are specially tailored for men and
women (most adult diapers are unisex).
   "Finally, manufacturers are beginning to understand that
one size does not fit all," says the Simon Foundation's Ms.
Gartley. "There's different needs of the individual and
different types of incontinence."