Who's News:
   Air Canada Names
   Hollis L. Harris
   President, Chief
   ----
   By G. Pierre Goad
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Mr. Harris, 60 years old, is a former Delta Air Lines and
Continental Airlines executive. His appointment ends an
18-month search to fill the No. 2 slot at Air Canada. Pierre
Jeanniot abruptly resigned as president and chief executive
of Air Canada in August 1990. Chairman Claude Taylor assumed
Mr. Jeanniot's duties and said at the time that it was "a
priority" to find a new chief executive.
   Mr. Harris succeeds Mr. Taylor as president and chief
executive. The vice chairman's post is new. An Air Canada
spokesman declined to say when Mr. Taylor, who is 66, intends
to retire as chairman. Mr. Harris and Mr. Taylor couldn't be
reached.
   Mr. Harris spent 36 years at Delta. He was president and
chief operating officer when he left the Atlanta carrier in
September 1990 to become president and chief executive of
Continental Airlines Holdings Inc. and head of its
Continental Airlines unit. Mr. Harris left Continental a year
later and founded a consulting concern.
   Heidrick  Struggles Inc., which found Mr. Harris for Air
Canada, conducted a world-wide search inside and outside the
airline industry, said Gerard Roche, chairman of the New York
concern. Mr. Roche said Air Canada liked Mr. Harris's
"hands-on airline experience" and his "vision for global
growth."
   Morgan Stanley analyst Kevin Murphy said Mr. Harris is "a
very capable executive {who is} strong in operations and
marketing." Benn Mikula, an analyst at Sanwa McCarthy
Securities Inc. in Montreal, said the appointment of Mr.
Harris "will boost employee morale" at Air Canada because of
his long tenure at Delta Air Lines.
   Separately, Air Canada posted a wider loss of 218 million
Canadian dollars (US$183.8 million), or C$2.94 a share, for
1991, vs. a loss of C$74 million, or C$1.01 a share, in 1990.
Revenue fell to C$3.57 billion from C$3.93 billion.
   The 1991 loss was in line with expectations. Ted Larkin,
an analyst at Bunting Warburg Inc. in Toronto, said he
expects Air Canada will post a narrower loss for 1992. On the
Toronto Stock Exchange Air Canada closed at C$7.375, up 12.5
Canadian cents.