PG Earnings
   Increased 7%
   In 2nd Quarter
   ----
   By Gabriella Stern
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
PG's results prompted industry analysts, who had issued
conservative forecasts after earnings fell 3% in the first
quarter, to raise their earnings estimates for the rest of
the fiscal year and fiscal 1993.
   PG Chairman Edwin L. Artzt credited "the improving trend
in our world-wide unit volume growth" for helping to "restore
earnings growth." He also noted that domestic volumes rose "a
healthy 5%" in most product lines.
   Improved food, beverage, diaper and paper product sales
accounted for much of the 5% increase in domestic sales. In
Asia and Latin America, where PG has been aggressively
introducing household products, sales grew by 15% in the
second quarter.
   PG's stock rose $5.50 to $102.625 a share, in heavy
trading on the New York Stock Exchange yesterday.
   Analysts said PG had strong margins in spite of lower
prices in the U.S. and substantial capital, marketing and
research spending. Joseph H. Kozloff, an analyst with Smith
Barney, said, "What's impressive to me is that they
essentially maintained margins in the quarter even though
they're spending very heavily." Mr. Kozloff, who had forecast
second-quarter pershare earnings at $1.35, raised his fiscal
1992 estimate to $5.20 a share from $5.10.
   While PG's troubled food and beverage unit showed
improved results, largely from competitive pricing of Folgers
coffee, Mr. Kozloff said profitability in that unit "is still
at unacceptable levels. I doubt PG's happy with it."
   Other analysts adopted a more cautious posture toward
PG's outlook, noting that conditions in the second half of
the fiscal year could hurt earnings. Bonita Austin, an
analyst with Wertheim Schroder  Co. who increased her
year-end estimate a nickle to $5.15 from $5.10, said that
even to reach $5.10 a share, "Procter  Gamble will need 12%
growth. That's a pretty big second half."
   In the first half of the fiscal year, PG reported net of
$1.06 billion, or $2.99 a share, on sales of $14.71 billion,
versus $1.045 billion net, or $2.93 a share, on sales of
$13.51 billion a year earlier.