Letters to the Editor:
   The Waiting Game in Heart Surgery
After learning about the so-called misrepresentation, I
spoke with Mr. Mueller, who emphatically denied telling Dr.
Rachlis that he was offered surgery within a week of the
angiogram performed by his cardiologist, Dr. Victor Huckell.
   Dr. Rachlis insists Mr. Mueller's reluctance to undergo
surgery was the sole reason for the delay. It is just as
plausible that the delays contributed to Mr. Mueller's
ambivalence about surgery and prompted him to seek
alternative treatments, including chelation therapy. Dr.
Rachlis also says half of all non-emergency bypass surgery
was being performed at Vancouver General Hospital within one
week of its being booked. Such misleading data conceal the
fact that patients frequently wait months, sometimes more
than a year, on their surgeon's waiting list before they can
be booked for surgery.
   Mr. Mueller's case was not an isolated incident. In fact,
the patient whose case was contrasted with Mr. Mueller's in
"Borderline Medicine" was a patient from Windsor, Ontario,
who waited five months for an angiogram in Canada and came to
Detroit in order to avoid further delays. During our
investigation, we spoke with dozens of Canadian patients who
recounted their experiences of waiting excessive periods,
often more than a year, for bypass surgery. At the time of
our report, the backlog of patients waiting for open-heart
surgery in Vancouver was so severe that the provincial
government was negotiating with hospitals in Seattle to
operate on Canadian patients. Since our report, about 200
patients from Vancouver have traveled to Seattle for their
surgery, and an additional open-heart surgery unit has been
opened in Vancouver to reduce the delays.
   Ms. Cohen suggests in her article that "Borderline
Medicine" reflects "the way the press blindly accepts and
repeats tales of diminished care that would come with
universal, uniform health insurance in America." Ironically,
Ms. Cohen's article manages to prove her assertion that the
press "blindly accepts and repeats tales."
   Roger Weisberg
   Producer
   Thirteen-WNET
   New York
   ---
   Ms. Cohen's article was provocative. However, I challenge
the accuracy of "the $12 billion lost in fraudulent workmen's
{sic} compensation claims." Incurred medical in 1991 was
about $26 billion (40% of the total $65 billion for workers'
compensation coverage, which includes medical benefits,
indemnity benefits and administrative expense). Paid medical
was lower. To suggest 46% of the medical benefits rendered
are associated with fraudulent claims is inaccurate and an
insult to the thousands of adjusters whose responsibility it
is to work with payer, provider and patient in establishing
the causal relationship and compensability.
   Stryker Warren Jr.
   Chief Executive Officer
   Focus Healthcare Management Inc.
   Brentwood, Tenn.
   ---
   Ms. Cohen has faithfully reported on what both Dr.
Huckell, a Vancouver cardiologist, and his patient Mr.
Mueller told me in April and May of 1991 and what I reported
to the House Government Operations Committee in June. Dr.
Huckell told me several times that Mr. Mueller could have had
his surgery within one or two weeks except for his refusal to
have the procedure. He told me Mr. Mueller had seen a surgeon
within one or two weeks of his diagnosis and had declined the
procedure.
   In the hospital's reconstruction of the written record of
events for Mr. Mueller's case, it was found that Mr. Mueller
did not in fact see a surgeon until August 1990, six months
after the initial angiogram. However, the records indicate
Mr. Mueller was extremely reluctant to have surgery and his
consultation was delayed solely for this reason. In fact, the
record indicated that when Mr. Mueller first allowed Dr.
Huckell to refer him to Dr. Fradet (the surgeon) on May 18,
1990, he was offered surgery twice within the next month. Mr.
Mueller refused surgery on both of these occasions.
   Data on the waiting periods for surgery at the Vancouver
General Hospital show that emergency surgery was being done
within hours or days and that nearly half of non-emergency
surgery was done within one week of its being booked.
   Patients, like Mr. Mueller, with left main coronary artery
obstruction make up less than 15% of bypass-surgery patients
and are at considerable risk if the procedure is delayed.
This risk is well-recognized and these patients typically
would wait very little time for their surgery in either the
U.S. or Canada.
   Indeed, on April 17, 1991, Dr. Huckell agreed with me that
Mr. Mueller was high risk and was at pains to explain that he
had done his best to get him to surgery quickly but had been
thwarted by the patient's reluctance. Dr. Huckell agreed with
me that the program misinterpreted Mr. Mueller's case.
   I believe Roger Weisberg's otherwise excellent documentary
has inadvertently misled Americans about the true state of
care for heart patients in Canada. Most Canadian heart
patients do not wait unduly for surgery, and patients with
high-risk conditions are usually given priority.
Unfortunately, as demonstrated by the data on waiting
periods, a small number of surgeons are very popular and they
may develop lengthy waiting lists for elective procedures.
   In Canada's system, clinical decisions have been
historically left to physicians. At least some surgeons with
long lists are reluctant to share their work with colleagues
in the same institution. This may lead to some patients
waiting inordinate periods of time. However, this problem has
nothing to do with Canada's public-health-insurance system or
a lack of resources for heart surgery.
   Michael M. Rachlis, M.D.
   Toronto