Winter Olympics 1992:
   Results
   ----
   By Timothy J. Carroll
World champions Natalia Mishkutienok and Artur Dmitriev of
Russia won the pairs title. The United Team couple continued
the streak-teams from the collapsed Soviet Union had won the
seven previous Olympic titles.
   Elena Bechke and Denis Petrov of the United Team got the
silver and Canadians Isabelle Brasseur and Lloyd Eisler took
the bronze.
   Ms. Mishkutienok and Mr. Dmitriev had problems on their
side-by-side jumps. But their intricate spins and superb
lifts and dismounts were more than enough. They earned seven
5.9s (out of a possible 6.0) for artistic impression and were
first with all nine judges.
   Ms. Bechke and Mr. Petrov were just as impressive,
especially on their lifts. Their pace was slower than their
countrymen, however, and they wound up second with eight
judges.
   Ms. Brasseur and Mr. Eisler struggled on two throws and
she fell on a double axel.
   Natasha Kuchiki and Todd Sand were the top Americans,
finishing sixth.
                                                                                                       

   COMBINED SLALOM
                                                                                                       

   Italy's Josef Polig won the men's combined, as the
favorites literally fell by the wayside.
   Gianfranco Martin of Italy took the silver and
Switzerland's Steve Locher won the bronze.
   The big names -- Marc Girardelli, Guenther Mader, Paul
Accola and defending champion Hubert Strolz -- skidded,
slithered or tumbled on the snow. Mr. Strolz, the last of the
fastest 15 skiers, basically needed to just stay on his feet
to win the gold. He was only 100 feet from the finish line
when he fell. Mr. Strolz got up, stared at the snow beneath
him for several seconds.
   Mr. Accola, a favorite for the gold, missed a gate near
the top of the first of his two slalom runs. He plodded back
to the gate he had just straddled and completed the course.
                                                                                                       

   BIATHLON
                                                                                                       

   Anfissa Restzova of the United Team won the first women's
biathlon gold medal ever awarded.
   Antje Misersky of Germany took the silver in the
7.5-kilometer race. The bronze medal went to Elena Belova,
also of the United Team.
   Ms. Restzova, a 27-year-old Russian, was able to overcome
missing the shooting target three times in the standing
shooting series. Each missed target means one turn on the
150-meter penalty loop.
   Ms. Restzova finished in 24 minutes, 29.2 seconds.
   Ms. Misersky, a 24-year-old former East German, was 15.9
seconds behind in 24:45.1. She had to do two penalty loops.
   Ms. Belova, a 26-year-old Russian, also missed the target
twice, and finished in 24:50.8.
   Conditions were tough, with snow falling throughout the
race.
   The top American finisher was Joan Smith in 21st place.
                                                                                                       

   LUGE
                                                                                                       

   Three Austrians, two of them sisters, hold the top places
after the first two runs of the women's luge competition. The
final two runs are today.
   Doris Neuner's time of 1:33.354 is just ahead of older
sister Angelika's 1:33.529. Austria's Andrea Tagwerker is
third with 1:33.781.
   The Italian and U.S. delegations protested that the
Austrians were wearing elastic pointing devices in their
booties, which would keep their feet straight and give them
an unfair aerodynamic advantage. The devices were ruled
illegal after the Calgary Olympics. The Games jury overruled
the protest.
   Cammy Myler of the U.S. is sixth, 0.669 second behind the
leader, while fellow American Erica Terwillegar stood
seventh.
                                                                                                       

   NORDIC COMBINED
                                                                                                       

   Klaus Ofner of Austria, the bronze medalist at the 1991
world championships, took the lead after the 90-meter ski
jumping portion of the Nordic combined. Fabrice Guy of
France, a favorite, is in third.
   Jumping specialist Reiichi Mikata of Japan is second.
   The final portion of the two-event competition is the
15-kilometer cross-country skiing today.
   Mr. Guy is the best cross-country skier of the top
jumpers. Normally near the top in jumping, he regularly
overtakes the leaders easily in the cross-country portion. He
is consistently in the top 10 in both parts of the event.
                                                                                                       

   HOCKEY
                                                                                                       

   The U.S. withstood a furious attack by the German team,
winning 2-0 to move into a tie with Finland atop their
six-team group. U.S. goalie Ray Leblanc stopped 46 shots. The
U.S. team was criticized for its weak defense in the 1988
Games, giving up 31 goals in six games, and was thought to
have similar problems this year. yesterday's shutout was the
first in the Albertville Games.
   Finland beat Poland 9-1. Finland and the U.S. play
tomorrow.
   Sweden defeated Italy 7-3.