Global View:
   Bringing Back Flowers and Freedom to Koenigsee
   ----
   By George Melloan
But the transition isn't proving easy. The psychological
damage is in some ways harder to erase than the physical
drabness that characterized places like this under the old
order, says Joachim Steinhoefel, Eva's husband. He is a
Lutheran minister who tended his flocks in villages near here
throughout the communist regime. He often felt the pressure
of communist hostility toward the church. The "Stasi" secret
police spied on his family to detect any criticism of the
party or state and at one point tried to recruit him to
inform on his parishioners.
   Eva, an English teacher, remembers a bitter comedy when
she and other teachers were accused of slackness by their
Communist school director -- for failing to rise promptly
when he entered the room. They were sent to nearby Rudolstadt
and marched around a schoolyard, high heels and all, by an
army major who had been ordered to discipline them with
close-order drill.
   Today, Joachim believes, the first need is to change the
way people think. He says there is a feeling of "emptiness"
among people accustomed to having most of their decisions
made for them. The Communists had some success in
discouraging church membership, reducing it to some 30% of
the population, which further contributes to an absence of
values. Young people used churches as sanctuaries when they
were engaged in the risky business of toppling the
Communists, but those who did not acquire religious beliefs
now no longer find the church useful, he says.
   Communism's economic wreckage is visible even in this
small place, where a machine-tool factory that once employed
2,000 workers now is an idle derelict. Government road
building and new shopping centers and industrial parks are
taking up some of the slack, but some workers find it hard to
adapt to new jobs.
   To get some idea of what went wrong, visit A. Riedeler
GmbH, which has been making children's dolls here at least
since 1850, when its records were destroyed by fire, and most
likely many years before then. In June 1990, A. Riedeler was
one of the first East German companies returned to private
hands, after 18 years of state ownership.
   The owner, Horst Steinmann, is a sprightly, white-haired
man well beyond retirement age. His task of rehabilitating A.
Riedeler is easier than other privatizations because he was
allowed to remain a director, without real power, after his
and some 10,000 other East German firms were taken over by
the state in 1972. Yet, few businessmen would envy his
position.
   Communist control effectively trashed A. Riedeler. The
political hacks selected by the state to run the company in
1972 were masters of featherbedding. The plant acquired no
fewer than six directors, and, as Mr. Steinmann wryly notes,
"each one had to have a secretary to make coffee."
   Very soon the office staff, which included not only
secretaries but Stasi snoopers and other party sycophants,
had swelled from a few people to 300. Production dropped 40%.
"The production workers saw that the office staff wasn't
working, so they decided not to work either," says Mr.
Steinmann.
   Topping everything else, the authorities added 250 wives
of Soviet military officers to the payroll. They were
delivered to the plant daily from the Soviet base at
Rudolstadt, often bringing mending and other household chores
along to do during working hours. They also drank a lot of
coffee. "We spent more time making coffee than making dolls,"
Mr. Steinmann says.
   Bookkeeping was at least simple. Berlin sent the plant
money to meet operating costs, charging the plant's account.
The factory produced its little soft plastic dolls, with mops
of lustrous gold and red hair, and shipped them where
directed, receiving credits for its shipments.
   Charges piled up faster than credits. When Mr. Steinmann
got the company back it owed the state 21 million Deutsche
marks ($13 million) and had no working capital, compared with
10 million marks ($6,250,000) in capital when the state took
over. German reunification law requires that seized property
be returned in its original condition, which theoretically
means that Germany should at the very least write off Mr.
Steinmann's debt and pay him 10 million marks. But
Treuhandanstalt, which has charge of privatizing the east,
doesn't have enough money for that, so Mr. Steinmann is
borrowing money for working capital. Even with a state
guarantee, the cost of borrowing is such that he sees little
prospect of making a profit soon.
   Some things are looking up, however. After slashing 400
people from his work force, he was able to raise production
23%. He has a crew of 30 workers pulling out old machinery
and installing modern equipment, which he hopes to have ready
to begin production next month to meet Christmas orders. His
daughter, Susan Hegenbarth, visited the New York Toy Fair a
few weeks ago with a group of other East German toy makers,
and was able to do some business, in part because she was
willing to take small orders. That's only a shadow of the
days long ago when A. Riedeler had a million-dollar contract
to supply doll house dolls to Woolworth's and shipped dolls
all over the world, but it's a new beginning.
   Mr. Steinmann has made other new beginnings. In World War
II, members of his family, suspected of taking part in the
plot against Hitler, died in concentration camps. The war
wrecked the factory. Afterward, when the U.S. Army turned
over the region to the Soviets under terms of the Yalta
agreement, what remained was looted by the Soviets. "They
even took the chairs and the central heating," says Mr.
Steinmann. In 1953, after a popular uprising forced the East
German government to relax its expropriation efforts, he was
allowed to restart the company, only to have it seized in
1972 after he had rebuilt it.
   Asked if it is painful to be starting again at his age,
Mr. Steinmann says, "I only do it because of my daughter."
But clearly he savors restoration of his rights. Mrs.
Steinhoefel does, too. "At last," she says, "we can go where
we please and say what we really think."