Fed Won't Seek
   To Influence
   Long Rates
   ---
   Greenspan Says Government
   Lacks Tools to Lower
   Rates in Timely Fashion
   ----
   By Paulette Thomas
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The Treasury is modestly reducing its reliance on
long-term debt, but the Fed continues to limit its attempts
to directly influence interest rates to shorter-term
securities. Despite some ambiguity in Mr. Greenspan's
responses to questions yesterday, Fed officials said the
chairman wasn't signaling any change in Fed policy.
   "I would not want to communicate to you that we know that
significant reductions in Treasury issuance or in our
purchases will materially affect the interest rates," Mr.
Greenspan said.
   In a speech yesterday, the Fed's vice chairman, David
Mullins, said any attempt by the Fed to use its clout in the
marketplace to bring down long-term interest rates would
produce "artificial rates." He added, "I'm not very
enthusiastic about the Fed trying to get into a discretionary
policy of trying to manipulate long rates."
   During the hearing, Sen. Alfonse D'Amato (R., N.Y.)
complained that high long-term rates and current bank capital
requirements are contributing to the credit crunch by
inducing banks to buy Treasury securities rather than make
loans.
   Mr. Greenspan said the Fed is continuing to examine ways
to alter bank and thrift capital requirements in a way that
might address the issue. "We are looking in that direction to
try and solve this problem," he said. "This is an issue
that's at the forefront of our discussions" regarding
refinements to current bank capital requirements.
   Mr. Greenspan didn't say how quickly -- or whether -- any
change might be implemented, and he gave few details. A Fed
spokesman said after the hearing that no proposal is imminent
and that any change would be part of efforts to protect banks
from losses due to sharp changes in interest rates.
   Yesterday's hearing was called to review the status of the
savings-and-loan cleanup, but several senators, especially
Republicans, used the occasion to express more alarm about
the economic slump, particularly about the lack of credit.
   On the topic of SLs, the senators gave a warmer welcome
to the notion that regulators could offer financial
assistance to banks and thrifts before they fail, in order to
save taxpayer costs from failures of those institutions.
Earlier this week, the House Banking Committee roundly
criticized the idea as a bailout for shareholders.
   "I hope this opportunity will not be shelved before it has
an opportunity to work," said Sen. Christopher Dodd (D.,
Conn.).