Economy:
   New Construction
   Contracts Slipped
   0.9% in January
   ----
   By Stephanie Ferrell-Keegan
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The Dodge Index of construction, which now uses 1987 as a
base year of 100, slipped to a seasonally adjusted 95 from
December's 96. The December index reading was the best in the
past 1 1/2 years.
   "A stubbornly depressed nonresidential building market is
keeping the construction sector from realizing its full
potential," said Dodge's vice president and chief economist,
George A. Christie. "Even after the long recession, lingering
weakness in commercial and industrial building is offsetting
very substantial gains in one-family housing and public-works
construction."
   "Call 1992 a `two-H year'," said Mr. Christie.
"Homebuilding and highways are where the action is."
   The total value of residential building in January climbed
11% to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of $115 billion. The
housing market's year-long recovery has increased the rate of
residential building 40% above the January 1991 rate, with
all the improvement in single-family building.
   "Favorable interest rates and the prospect of a tax credit
for first-time home buyers will keep the one-family housing
recovery going through 1992, even though the overdeveloped
rental/condo market remains dormant," Mr. Christie said.
   The rate of nonbuilding construction, which includes
public works such as roads and sewers, was down 6% to $54
billion. Public-works contracts, which reached an all-time
high in December, were off only 2% in January. Support for
public-works construction is developing through accelerated
spending of appropriations for existing public construction
programs and the $150-billion-plus federal highway program,
which was recently passed to enable states to begin highway
construction. The accelerated spending plan is expected to
give the economy a boost, and the highway program will
greatly escalate development of the nation's transportation
network, according to Dodge.
   Contracts for nonresidential buildings fell 12% in January
to an annualized $76 billion. Mr. Christie said that
"although 1991 gave us two or three encouraging months, it is
evident that commercial building is far from ready for a
sustained recovery."
   Total new construction contracts in January, on an
unadjusted basis, rose 14% to $16.1 billion from $14.1
billion in January 1991. All regions, except the West, where
contracts fell 2% from last year's total, reported
double-digit gains in unadjusted totals.