Technology:
   New Gadgets
   Face Long Trek
   To Store Shelves
   ----
   By Patrick M. Reilly
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Thousands of industry executives and electronics dealers
gathered here got a prime example of the hurry-up-and-wait
state of things yesterday. In a keynote speech, John Sculley,
chairman and chief executive officer of Apple Computer Inc.,
preferred to focus far more on the future. "Frankly, we
wouldn't be interested in today's industry," which is
dominated by big manufacturers and commodity pricing, Mr.
Sculley said.
   Instead, he focused on the coming computerization -- or
digitalization -- of consumer products and said Apple would
play a major role. He promised Apple would come out with a
new line of compact disk-based, "multimedia" Macintosh
computers that can juggle huge amounts of text, full-motion
video, and CD-quality sound.
   The catch: The new machines won't be in stores until the
1992 Christmas selling season. Mr. Sculley said Apple is
working with other makers to bring out several "personal
digital assistants," such as computerized calendars and
"electronic books." But those new gadgets won't soothe
industry ills anytime soon, either, waiting until 1993 to
make their debut.
   In the meantime, as manufacturers' profit margins shrink
and some retailers flirt with bankruptcy court and closings,
they're being told to hang on until the cycle of new products
can take hold. Industry executives are bracing for difficulty
in pushing through price increases, a year of sluggish sales
growth likely to fall well below the rate of inflation, and
only a gradual turnaround that won't come until the second
half.
   Sales figures for the industry last year were downright
disappointing, especially compared with the years of
double-digit growth in the 1970s and 1980s. Total sales rose
only 1% in 1991 to an estimated $35.68 billion. Even the
industry's ever-cheerful booster, the Electronic Industries
Association, which sponsors the four-day show, projects that
sales this year will increase by only a modest 2.1% to $36.44
billion.
   To break out of the doldrums, many manufacturers hope to
expand into categories that haven't yet matured. Philips
Electronics N.V. took the wraps off its new digital audio
home recording system, the Digital Compact Cassette player,
and introduced new applications for its Compact Disc
Interactive machines. "DCC and CD-I should help drive people
into the stores this year," said a hopeful Jim Newbrough, a
Philips senior vice president of marketing. But DCC won't be
seen in large quantities until September, and CD-I, which
combines almost full-motion video, huge amounts of text and
high-quality sound, is still unknown to most consumers.
   Despite the sobering and modest projections, the annual
exhibition here has been a showcase for several new products
that could be mass-market hits, in time, and for other
products with limited appeal but intriguing applications.
Some examples:
                                                                                                       

   Photo CD
                                                                                                       

   Eastman Kodak Co. unveiled the first working,
production-ready models of Photo CD decks. About the size of
the average audiocassette player, Photo CD decks play 35mm
negatives and slides, which are recorded on compact disks by
photofinishers, for viewing on home TV sets. The decks also
play the standard musical compact disks.
   But Kodak won't ship to retailers until this summer, and
the product will be a bit pricey compared with traditional
photography. The decks will sell for about $400, and
transferring 24 photos to a disk, which can hold 100
pictures, will cost about $20.
   The company, however, is betting the machines, supported
by a massive ad campaign and extensive in-store
demonstrations, will be one of the most popular products the
company has ever produced. "Our research shows people want to
simplify and organize their family photos and like the idea
of putting their photos on to a TV screen," said a Kodak
spokesman.
                                                                                                       

   Mobile Electronics
                                                                                                       

   Car stereo is always a big item at the winter electronics
show, as dealers look for hot stuff for summer, prime time
for cruisin' and listening. Blaupunkt, a unit of Robert Bosch
Corp., says it will introduce later this year the world's
first voice-activated car stereo that also doubles as a
cellular telephone.
   The new machine, fittingly enough called Blaupunkt Las
Vegas, lets a listener use voice commands to operate all of
the controls of the radio, tape deck and CD changer, and to
place and receive phone calls. The phone can be heard on an
infrared handset or through the front car stereo speakers.
Music volume is automatically muted whenever the user makes
or receives a call.
   The phone itself can store 85 phone numbers, 15 of which
are preprogrammed 800 numbers for five hotel chains, five
airlines and five car-rental companies. What, no dry
cleaners?
                                                                                                       

   Car Alarms
                                                                                                       

   Anti-theft systems (if there really is such a thing) are
using computer-chip technology to enter a new realm: revenge.
A new product from a small firm in Simi Valley, Calif.,
Crimestopper Security Products Inc., may not exactly thwart a
theft outright -- but it will extract a toll on the thief in
the driver's seat.
   Crimestopper's Vector system is equipped with an
"anti-hijacking" feature for assailants who steal your car at
knife or gun point, a popular method in the Los Angeles area
and in other big cities. As the thief drives away, the owner
can set off the car's alarm system by a hand-held remote. It
waits two minutes so the alarms sound off when the thief is
at a safe distance. The system can be programmed to shut off
the engine or stop it from restarting once the car is parked.
Equipment and installation start at about $500, but extras
can push the price to $2,000.
   Like other systems, Crimestopper's already lets the driver
lock doors, raise windows, lock the hood and automatically
open the rear trunk, and stop and start car stereo systems.
One extra nicety: an "inside pain generator," says the
company's general manager, Larry Peterson. It blasts a car
thief with an ear-splitting siren located inside the car. He
figures that should slow them down.
                                                                                                       

   Baseball Know-It-All
                                                                                                       

   One of the more enlightened gizmos -- even if it isn't
exactly an immediate necessity -- to appear at the show is
the handheld Big League Baseball Electronic Encyclopedia from
Franklin Electronic Publishers Inc. Weighing five ounces and
small enough to fit into a shirt pocket, it holds more than
620,000 batting statistics, 270,000 pitching statistics and
complete biographical information on every player in the
history of the major leagues up to the 1991 season. Queries
can be tapped in on a small keyboard.
   In seconds, answers to the burning mysteries of America's
Favorite Pastime appear on a three-line display. Bob Feller's
lifetime earned run average: 3.25. Height of the tallest
player ever in the majors: 6 feet, 9 inches. Highest lifetime
batting average for player with more than 100 atbats: Ty
Cobb, .366. The gadget can spew out data on the most
insignificant queries, including who was the American League
switch hitter with the most doubles in the 1920s. (Never mind
the answer -- who cares?)
   Franklin will later sell an update on the 1992 season in a
computer-chip cartridge that can be inserted into the back of
the encyclopedia. Franklin will begin shipping the product in
April at a suggested retail price of $129.95. Morton E.
David, chief executive officer, says he has heard so much
interest from retailers at the show that Franklin expects to
be sold out through June.