The Outlook:
   Managed Trade
   May Serve a Purpose
   ----
   By Alan Murray
But the agreements commit Japanese auto makers to buying a
fixed amount of auto parts from U.S. suppliers, regardless of
price or quality. That's not free trade, by any stretch of
the imagination. Pressed on the issue, Mr. Boskin bobbed and
weaved. "If you did it generically, and if that was your
goal, and that was all you were trying to do, and it wasn't
just a way to get the process started, yes I would" call it
managed trade, he finally acknowledged, without actually
using the dread words.
   The president doesn't like to talk about managed trade for
ideological reasons. It suggests the government has a role in
determining trade flows. And in most cases, letting the
government decide what a nation imports and exports is
disastrous. Declining industries (textiles, steel, autos)
often have the most political power, and therefore profit
from managed trade agreements at the expense of rising
industries.
                                                                                                       

   The auto-parts agreement, however, may be an example of
managed trade that serves a useful purpose. Many U.S.
auto-parts makers do lead the world in both price and
quality; yet, they haven't been very successful in selling
their parts to Japanese auto makers, either in Japan or here
in the U.S.
                                                                                                       

   Why? A number of academic studies have demonstrated that
Japanese multinational companies don't act like other
multinational companies when they go overseas. They are far
less likely to buy local parts and equipment and to hire
local people for high management positions than are European
and American multinationals, and they are far more likely to
give most of their business to other Japanese companies.
   Mordechai Kreinin, an economist at Michigan State
University, demonstrated this several years ago in a study of
Japanese, European and American multinationals in Australia.
And even the president's own Council of Economic Advisers
presented statistics in its annual report last year showing
that Japanese multinationals in the U.S. were eight times
likelier to import parts and equipment than U.S.
multinationals.
   Part of the reason for this discrepancy appears to be that
many Japanese businesses organize themselves into groups
called "keiretsu" and give favored treatment to other
businesses in the same group. Robert Lawrence, a professor of
trade at Harvard's Kennedy School of Government, studied
Japanese import behavior and found that in keiretsu
companies, like Toyota, "imports tend to be abnormally low."
                                                                                                       

   Together, the evidence shows clearly that the behavior of
Japanese multinationals is an exception in world commerce.
And if the world's trading system is going to stay together,
that behavior must change. The agreement with Japan does just
that, committing Japanese auto makers in the U.S. to doubling
their purchases from U.S. suppliers from about $7 billion in
1990 to $15 billion in 1994.
                                                                                                       

   Many commentators have complained that the Tokyo
agreements are the Bush administration's first step down a
slippery slope towards more widespread protectionism and
managed trade. In fact, the Tokyo trip was an anomaly within
the administration.
   It was arranged at a time when the White House was in
chaos, saddled with a chief of staff who was self-destructing
and an economy that was defying forecasts and stubbornly
refusing to recover. Most of the president's usual economic
advisers were kept out of the initial deliberations on the
trip. Asked whether the president would ever again lead an
international trade mission, one top adviser replied: "I
certainly hope not."
                                                                                                       

   Perhaps the best metaphor for thinking about the auto
parts agreement, suggests Mr. Lawrence, is affirmative
action: It's not a good idea, in general, for the government
to tell companies whom they must hire, but it may make sense
for the government to give them a prod in the right
direction.
                                                                                                       

   If the auto-parts agreement leads Japanese multinationals
to become more open to the rest of the world, then the end
result of this flirtation with managed trade could be a freer
world trading system.