It Is No Good Being
   Too Pure in Siberia,
   If You're a Scientist
   ---
   Prof. Dudnikov Is a Physicist
   Of Some World Renown;
   Practically, That's Tough
   ----
   By Barry Newman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
"Quite understandably," Prof. Dudnikov wrote recently,
such a startling result from such a simple operation "makes a
very strong impression and can be a good reason for high
emotions."
   Lately, though, he's had good reason for low emotions. His
discovery, published in scientific journals, was picked up in
the U.S. and refined at Los Alamos, Brookhaven and Fermilab.
It plays a part in the search for endless energy from
controlled fusion. It has its uses in the space-based missile
defense system. A version of it has been built in Texas for
the superconducting supercollider, where it will help explore
the origins of the universe.
   Prof. Dudnikov's ion source has made some money. He hasn't
seen any of it. "I have no kopek, no cent, no yen," he says,
turning his empty palms upward. "It's all not for me] Of
course, American people who do what I did have a big house."
   In America, the professor would have a big house, too. But
like most of the scientists left in what used to be the
Soviet Union, he has only a slim chance of joining the
"movement of brains" (as he calls it) that so worries the
West, and isn't even sure he wants to.
   No Lenin Prize winner, he won't be snapped up as a
superstar by some famous laboratory. Yet, at 48, he is too
well known to work anywhere as an underling. If he built
bombs, Libya might call up, but he doesn't.
   Prof. Dudnikov knows precisely what he wants to do, and
has made a realistic calculation of the probability of doing
it.
   "I want to work here," he says. "It is not possible."
   In Akademgorodok, set up in 1957 as a frozen retreat for
deep thinkers, the Dudnikovs don't have a big house, just a
pretty big apartment. It has higher-than-average ceilings, a
roomier kitchen. "Many modern conveniences," says the
professor's wife, Galina. "Refrigerator. Stove. Hot water.
Cold water."
   She sets out plates of delicacies on a living-room table:
tinned salmon, fried meat. Mrs. Dudnikov, short and sturdy,
is a lab chief at the Institute of Computation Technology.
From a back room come scratchy strains of a violin; that's
Andrei, their 22-year-old son, a physicist too. Prof.
Dudnikov, bald-domed with a pocketful of pens, pours out
glasses of pale cherry juice.
   "Before, our situation was good," he says. "It was
possible to have approximately normal life. Maybe it was
communism]" Now he expends more energy "food looking" than
pursuing the mysteries of matter. "From April 1990, the price
of meat increased 35 times. My salary increased two times.
Can you see yourself in my place?"
   The Dudnikovs live a short walk from the institute where
perestroika was invented in the early 1980s, but for them
economics is a black hole. Their guest draws a graph to
clarify the law of supply and demand. Mrs. Dudnikov puzzles
over it. Some Akademgorodok academics are trying to set up
their own private businesses. Not the Dudnikovs. Their son
has already been burned. The professor calls him in to
explain how.
   The violin playing stops, and Andrei appears. He has long,
wild hair. The left lens of his glasses is cracked down the
middle. He toys with a steel canister, the last stage of a
small rocket.
   "It wasn't exactly a state company," he says of the place
where he worked until a few weeks ago. It was, exactly, a
private shop inside the Institute of Electrometric
Measurements that built equipment for state companies to buy.
Andrei worked there for three years. Then rent and taxes went
up, and orders went the other way.
   "I did some systems," says Andrei. "Now, I'm fired."
   "First unemployment in our family," his mother says. "This
is progress."
   Andrei didn't develop a fondness for business. "The
greatest threat to peace isn't the Russian scientist," he
says. "It is the Russian businessman. They can sell any bomb
to anyone. Really. They can do it." His father has an
alternative: Let the ex-Soviets sell their bombs to America.
"Pay money, get rockets, have peace," he proposes. "You get
material-titanium, plutonium. We get meals."
   While the diplomats digest that, Prof. Dudnikov is stuck
-- a pure scientist in a country where pure science is
becoming pure luxury. If he did try to work privately, in
Russia or the West, he might not have a practical product to
offer. At a research lab, egos of equal volume might see him
as a threat.
   Meantime, he has watched more than 10 of his own students
run off to jobs in the U.S. The professor opens a drawer and
pulls out a snapshot one of them has sent him from Wisconsin.
It shows a big house -- with a two-car garage and a silver
Toyota in the driveway.
   "Only one car?" Mrs. Dudnikov asks.
   "Two," says her husband. "One for his wife."
   The only place, besides Siberia, where Vadim Dudnikov is
sure he wants to work is Ellis County, Texas. Someday it will
have the superconducting supercollider: The $10 billion,
55-mile circular tunnel where particles powered by a few
thousand giga-electronvolts will re-enact the primal cosmic
fireball.
   Prof. Dudnikov wants to help the supercollider build one
of his particle sources. "It is the one chance for real work
in my field. I have a concrete plan for work." He has sent a
proposal to Texas for a machine costing $50,000. Texas has
rejected it.
   For $50,000, it turns out, the supercollider has already
bought a particle source. Prof. Dudnikov has a job ad from
the place: "the Texas Accelerator Center, an
equal-opportunity employer." "My technology," he says.
"Direct]" But the Center has no place for him. Neither does
the supercollider.
   "We don't have anything for Dudnikov here," says Bob
Sheldon, the project's deputy manager, on the phone from
Ellis County. "We have an ion source, based on cesium. Maybe
that's the one he invented. He's a brilliant man, but he's a
day late and a dollar short."
   The supercollider does have something, however, for Prof.
Dudnikov's cornered current employer. In a prototype of the
kind of deals already emerging to keep former Soviet
scientists at home, it has hired the Institute of Nuclear
Physics to hammer out some hardware: magnets, chokes,
capacitors. Contracts signed so far will pay $3.6 million.
That's a bargain; the physicists of Akademgorodok are selling
at half the Western price.
   For Prof. Dudnikov, the arrangement is small consolation.
"In the West," he says, "one million dollars is for 10
people," yet he is one of the institute's 400 scientists. "I
need equipment. I have no possibility for real work." He puts
on his fur hat and sets off across the snow to his lab, where
he goes every day whether he has work to do or not.
   The institute looks like a factory: halls housing
accelerators and high-voltage coils in a welter of pipes and
wires. One of the first colliders, an early storage ring,
stands upended in a corrider like a disused grand piano.
   The professor's lab is jammed with tools and gauges, but
nothing much is going on and he doesn't linger. He wants a
guest to talk to the boss: A.N. Skrinsky, institute director
and head of the Academy of Science's whole nuclear division.
   The director has a big office with a Sputnik model above
his desk. One of Russia's renowned physicists, he details his
cut-rate plan for the institute's financial salvation. Then
he's asked what he can offer Prof. Dudnikov.
   "Vadim?" says Prof. Skrinsky. "He's the kind of person we
hope to keep. The intent is to have an active scientific
environment here and reasonable living conditions."
   "Enough for life]" Prof. Dudnikov blurts out.
   "Yes, that's all," says his director. "I can't give you
$100,000 a year."