AMR Reports
   Narrower Loss
   For 4th Quarter
   ---
   Full-Year Deficit Widened;
   Outlook for 1992 Hinges
   On National Economy
   ----
   By Bridget O'Brian
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Even so, the quarterly loss propelled AMR's 1991 deficit
to its largest ever. Chairman Robert L. Crandall called the
full-year results "terrible," adding that "the best you can
say about last year is that it's over."
   For the full-year, AMR had a net loss of $239.9 million,
or $3.54 a share, on revenue of $12.89 billion. In 1990,
AMR's net loss was $39.6 million, or 64 cents a share, on
revenue of $11.72 billion.
   Mr. Crandall continued to blame AMR's poor results on the
weak economy. The Persian Gulf War of a year ago also kept
passengers off aircraft for the early part of the year. And,
as he has before, Mr. Crandall railed against "the
short-sighted and irrational pricing policies of some of our
competitors."
   Indeed, financially-ailing Trans World Airlines recently
introduced cuts on its round-trip trans-Continental business
fares of several hundred dollars. UAL Corp.'s United Airlines
yesterday matched the cuts, a move that will put more
pressure on other carriers, including American -- which
recently introduced domestic business fares -- to do the
same.
   Analysts on Wall Street had expected a heavier quarterly
loss for AMR, and the better-than-expected results sent the
company's shares higher in New York Stock Exchange composite
trading yesterday, where they closed at $74.25, up $2.375.
   "I thought {the quarter} was better than expected, but it
was still a sizable loss and they have a long way to go,"
said Dan Hersh, a senior analyst with Kemper Securities
Group. "Let's face it, American did worse in '91 than in '90
and '90 was pretty terrible."
   One explanation for the narrower loss is the price of jet
fuel, which has dropped markedly since mid-December. AMR
currently is paying about 60 cents a gallon, vs. 82.5 cents a
year ago, and every penny of jet fuel AMR buys represents $30
million a year in operating expenses, according to Michael
Durham, the company's chief financial officer. Mr. Durham
said the company expects fuel prices to remain soft in the
near term.
   American also is trying hard to keep its yield, or the
average amount one passenger pays to fly a mile, as high as
possible and was able to raise fourth-quarter yield 2.3%.
Indeed, American has over the last year sacrificed market
share for revenue. "We're being more selective and suffering
on the load factor in exchange for trying to earn a premium
on the yield side," said Mr. Durham. During 1991, the
airline's load factor, or percentage of seats filled, dipped
slightly to 61.7% from 1990's 62.3%. The break-even load
factor was 61.6%.
   In the attempt to beef up revenue, American has jettisoned
many corporate discounts and recently introduced slightly
higher business-class fares on its transcontinental flights.
It has furloughed 1,250 employees and has cut back capital
spending by $8 billion over the next several years. Capital
spending for 1992, for example, will be $3.4 billion, vs.
$5.5 billion in 1991.
   Mr. Durham said yesterday that American hadn't yet decided
whether to match an industry effort to raise seven-day
advance purchase business and vacation discount fares.
   Mr. Crandall said there were a few bright spots in last
year's results, including new European service and strong
Latin American routes where revenue is up more than 20%. As
for the future, however, domestic first-quarter bookings
continue to look soft. Beyond that, "We hope . . . that those
predicting recovery of the economy are correct," Mr. Crandall
said.