International:
   Reality Is Overtaking Ideology in China
   ---
   Data Show Explosion in
   Private-Sector Growth
   ----
   By James McGregor
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Instead, Mr. Zhang describes to the audience of some 100
journalists and diplomats the most powerful force driving
modern Chinese politics: the bottom line. Mr. Zhang is
director of the General Statistical Department of the
National Economy of the State Statistical Bureau. Numbers are
his profession, and those he unveiled at Friday's briefing
clearly show why China's leaders no longer treat capitalism
as a dirty word.
   The latest figures make three major points: State
enterprise is the loser in the Chinese economy; China has no
choice but to further develop its stock and bond markets to
soak up a glut of personal savings; and population pressures
give the country's leaders no room for delay.
   For the first time since Mao's peasant armies marched
triumphantly into Beijing to found the People's Republic of
China 43 years ago, the state sector of Chinese industry is
poised to be overtaken by the private sector. Mr. Zhang said
that in 1991, state enterprises were responsible for only
52.8% of the country's industrial output. This compares with
54.5% in 1990 and well over 80% a decade ago.
   Last year, the output of state industries grew only 8%,
while collectives recorded output growth of 18%; private
entrepreneurs, 24%; and foreign-invested enterprises, 56%.
   Foreign-invested companies, private entrepreneurs and
collective factories (often run by an individual entrepreneur
who uses the name of a village or social organization to
avoid political problems) are considered by economists to
constitute China's private sector. Unlike state enterprises,
they buy raw materials and sell finished products on free
markets and survive only by turning a profit.
   Without disclosing complete figures, the government has
said the private sector tallied record profits in 1991. But
industries directly controlled by the central government
sustained a $5.7 billion loss, in addition to setting a
record of $22 billion in delinquent taxes. Although retail
sales of consumer goods grew by almost 14% last year, state
industries ended the year with their warehouses crammed with
$16 billion in products no one wanted.
   Premier Li Peng has made it a top priority to save state
enterprises, which he calls "the core of China's socialist
system." Last year, Mr. Li's focus was capital investment and
a stab at stirring socialist enthusiasm. The government
invested $65 billion in infrastructure and state-owned
enterprises while dubbing 1991 as "The Year of Quality,
Variety and Efficiency." Nonetheless, profits of solvent
units of the state sector plunged 14%.
   This year, the stress is on making state-factory managers
think and operate like their private-sector counterparts.
Such was the policy line that emerged from an early January
national meeting on economic reform attended by Mr. Li and
about 250 other Chinese leaders.
   The new slogan is to "break the three irons," which
include the iron rice bowl (guaranteed employment for
workers), the iron chair (guaranteed posts for managers) and
the iron salary (the guarantee that wages won't be cut).
Shortly after this 1992 propaganda line was unveiled, Mr.
Deng made his Chinese New Year tour of China's booming
southern coast. According to China-backed newspapers in Hong
Kong, Mr. Deng touted securities markets and made favorable
references to employing "capitalist measures."
   Mr. Zhang didn't disclose the central government's
finances for 1991. Those numbers will be made public when
China's rubber-stamp Legislature meets later this month. But
he did say that the central government's budget deficit is
growing ever larger while the savings of China's citizenry
balloon.
   According to government statistics, individuals now have
some $260 billion squirreled away in savings deposits,
stocks, bonds and cash. This is equal to 18 months wages for
every person of working age. The savings-deposit component
alone totals 911 billion yuan ($166.8 billion), a 30% rise
from the end of 1990 and an astounding 140% rise from the end
of 1988.
   Economists say the savings glut represents either a bomb
or a blessing for China's economy, depending on how the
government handles it. If the money is channeled into
economic development through bonds and stocks and long-term
savings deposits, it could hasten China's modernization. But
if left in short-term savings, it could fuel rampant
inflation and panic buying should the economy take a turn for
the worse.
   For the past two years, despite opposition from elderly
Marxists, even the Moscow-trained Mr. Li has been allowing
the steady expansion of China's stock and bond markets. In
1991, a total of about 25 billion yuan in bonds were traded
in China, 40% of this by individuals. This compares with
total bond trading of 11 billion yuan in 1990 and 2.1 billion
yuan in 1989. Meanwhile, experimental stock markets in
Shanghai and Shenzhen, a special economic zone adjacent to
Hong Kong, are listing new companies and selling a special
type of shares to foreigners.
   The one area where Mr. Zhang offered few statistics was
unemployment, still a sensitive subject in China. He said
only that the jobless rate in cities was 2.5% last year.
Government economists assert that this number isn't realistic
because most of China's unemployed are officially listed as
"waiting for work." The number of people in that category
isn't made public.
   However, from statistics issued by various government
agencies and those appearing in state-owned newspapers and
magazines, it is clear that population pressures are driving
economic reform as much as financial necessity. For example,
40% of China's population of 1.15 billion is age 19 or
younger.
   According to the Ministry of Labor, with children of the
Cultural Revolution baby boom now reaching working age,
nearly 23 million people (7.2 million in the cities and 15.6
million in the countryside) are expected to join the labor
force each year for the next five years. Mr. Zhang portrayed
it as a triumph that about 4.3 million new jobs were created
in China's cities and towns in 1991.