Marketing  Media -- Advertising:
   Olympians Need Not Win to Pocket Gold
   ----
   By Joanne Lipman
None of this year's crop of athletic talent has the star
potential of, say, gymnast Mary Lou Retton, who became one of
the most overexposed commercial spokeswomen in history after
winning the gold in 1984, the executives say. For one thing,
winter sports aren't as popular in the U.S. as are summer
sports. And Olympic medalists have lost some luster in the
years since Ms. Retton made shilling for products an Olympic
event in itself. Overkill is to blame: Scores of former
Olympians now compete with current Olympians for just a few
choice endorsement opportunities.
   McDonald's, for example, has a new campaign starring no
less than a dozen former Olympic medalists, from 1960s discus
champ Al Oerter to 1984 swimming gold medalist Nancy
Hogshead. Former Olympic skating champ Dorothy Hamill appears
in a new Bausch  Lomb contact lens campaign. The old-timers
have pushed out most of 1988's Olympic stars. Despite winning
a gold medal, for example, figure skater Brian Boitano never
hit the endorsement jackpot.
   This year, though, ad executives say America's Olympians
should fare better -- at least in terms of endorsements, if
not medals. The current wave of Japan-bashing in ads and in
the media makes the all-America athletes that much more
appealing. And with America aging, some of the older athletes
in the Games are particularly attractive to advertisers;
plenty would like to imitate the success of Bristol Myers
Squibb's "Nupe it" campaign for Nuprin starring 39-year-old
tennis star Jimmy Connors.
   Pairs-skating competitors Calla Urbanksi, 31, and Rocky
Marval, 26, are especially appealing as endorsers, says Lesa
Ukman, editor of IEG Sponsorship Report, a sports newsletter.
Not only are both older than the average competitor, but Ms.
Urbanski works full time as a waitress and Mr. Marval owns a
small trucking company in New Jersey, making them perfect
spokesmen for the 1990s, Ms. Ukman says.
   Even if the older competitors don't win, she says, trying
hard and losing gracefully -- as Mr. Connors did during last
summer's U.S. Open -- may count just as much. "In the '90s,
winning might not be the key," she says. "Our older athletes
are going to be our stars, not the little girls."
   The men's downhill ski team, which is considered unusually
good this year, could also fare well in endorsements because
advertisers are enamored of speed, snow and the macho aura of
downhill racing.
   Already, several ski team members appear anonymously in a
Visa commercial tied to the Olympics. And advertiser interest
in team star A.J. Kitt is steadily rising along with his
profile, bolstered by a flood of publicity including the
cover of last Sunday's New York Times Magazine.
   Others with big endorsement potential include two
returning 1988 athletes. Speedskater Bonnie Blair won two
gold medals in 1988, and could cash in if she repeats the
feat this time around.
   And speed-skater Dan Jansen may have more potential than
anyone. His personal tragedy touched the nation during the
1988 Games; he fell twice after learning his sister had died
of leukemia. This time, he is again a favorite for the gold.
If he wins, "it will be a stunning personal victory that will
have real appeal to advertisers," says Nova Lanktree,
director of Burns Sports Celebrity Service in Chicago, which
matches athletes and advertisers.
   While some older athletes may catch advertisers'
imaginations even if they lose, most other Olympic contenders
won't have a chance unless they pick up a gold medal, ad
executives say. And even then, they probably can't expect to
earn the multimillion dollar sums that previous Olympic stars
like Ms. Retton are said to have made. Instead, most will
make between $50,000 and $100,000 for appearing in an ad
campaign, about the same going rate as four years ago, Ms.
Lanktree estimates.
   Some of the current crop of Olympians already are
appearing in ads -- but that's no guarantee of future
success, either. In 1988, the bronze medal winner for figure
skating, Debi Thomas, was a successful endorser for a number
of products, including Campbell's Soup. But advertisers say
her endorsement career was hurt when she showed open
resentment toward gold medalist Katarina Witt during the
games.
   This time around, speed skaters Dan Jansen and Nick Thomas
appear anonymously in a Merrill Lynch ad. Visa's ads
highlight not just members of the men's ski team, but
decathalon contenders Daniel O'Brien and David Johnson, also
anonymously. (Messrs. O'Brien and Johnson, fast becoming the
summer Games' biggest endorsement winners, also star in
Reebok's latest "Dan and Dave" campaign). But Merrill and
Visa don't plan to feature Olympians after the Winter
Olympics.
   "We've never had an endorsement strategy; we use the bull
as our major endorser," a Merrill Lynch spokesman says. And
John Bennett, senior vice president of event marketing for
Visa, says the company generally uses Olympic athletes only
behind the scenes, to make appearances for the company. "We
don't use celebrity endorsers," he says. "We're into the
places you can use the card, as opposed to the person who
uses it."
   ---
   Olympic Price Cut
                                                                                                       

   Just four days before the Winter Olympics opening
ceremonies, CBS is still trying to unload Olympic ad time, at
prices that are more than 10% below its initial asking
prices, ad executives said.
   CBS initially asked between $265,000 and $275,000 for a
30-second prime time spot during the games in Albertville
beginning Saturday, advertisers said. But advertisers who
paid top dollar early on have since received more spots for
free. Those concessions brought prices down to between
$220,000 and $235,000, the executives said. Prices have even
fallen below $200,000 in some cases, one media executive
said.
   CBS declined to comment on pricing. A spokesman said only,
"We are on target to sell out."
   ---
   Four A's Political Hotline
                                                                                                       

   New Hampshire voters can call a 900-number to comment on
political ad campaigns flooding their state, under a pilot
program the American Association of Advertising Agencies is
unveiling today.
   The association, along with the League of Women Voters and
the Markle Foundation, a journalism watchdog group, intends
to publicize the results of its pilot program, called Project
Run Fair, in an effort to discourage negative campaigning.
The program is intended as a test that could expand to other
primary elections if successful. Young  Rubicam unit
Wunderman Worldwide will itself run ads encouraging voters to
participate. Four A's Chairman Alex Kroll, also chairman of
YR, has made the crusade against negative political
campaigns a hallmark of his term.
   ---
   Ad Notes. . . .
                                                                                                       

   EXCEDRIN: Bozell, New York, created an introductory
commercial for Excedrin IB, Bristol-Myers Squibb said,
confirming a report in the trade magazine Adweek.
   Omnicom's DDB Needham, Excedrin's agency of record, also
is expected to submit a spot. Bristol-Myers, which spent an
estimated $27 million on Excedrin advertising from January to
June last year, has conducted such quiet reviews before, as
it did for Clairol Ultresse and Nuprin before moving them to
WPP Group's J. Walter Thompson from Grey Advertising.