Corporate Focus:
   Michaels Stores to Post Strong 4th-Quarter Earnings
   ---
   Crafts Retailer Gains From Centralized
   Buying, More Seasonal Marketing
   ----
   By Karen Blumenthal
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The results have been swift. While other retailers are
reporting dismal earnings related to a weak economy, Michaels
is expected to report this week that earnings for the fourth
quarter ended Feb. 2 rose more than 56% to more than $7.5
million, or more than 55 cents a share, before a charge for
retiring debt. Sales for the 13-week period rose to $144.2
million, up 8.1% over a 14-week quarter a year ago. And
thanks to better earnings and a recent stock offering that
raised more than $60 million, a company that had more than
$74 million in debt two years ago now has none.
   Investors and analysts have noticed the revival. Michaels'
stock traded between $4.50 and $6.50 a share in February
1991, but it closed Friday at $24.25 in over-the-counter
trading. Despite the big jump in price, several analysts are
recommending the stock, saying the longtime laggard among
specialty retailers may finally be on its way to sustained
profitability.
   "They've always been successful revenue generators,"
especially when adding new stores, said Dennis Telzrow,
analyst at Principal/Eppler, Guerin  Turner in Dallas. "But
they've never been able to get much down to the bottom line."
With increased attention to both store operations and the
balance sheet now, he says, "all these things they're doing
are working."
   Those changes will be tested over the next two years as
the company tries to grow again at a 20% annual clip. Current
plans call for the 140-store chain to open about 20 stores
this year and 35 to 40 next year. Such quick expansion is
always risky, notes Janet Joseph Kloppenburg, retail analyst
at Robertson, Stephens  Co. But, she says, "I'm not worried
about their growth plans."
   One reason for her confidence is a small boom in crafts,
fueled in part by a recession-inspired return to homemade
gifts and decorations. Hobby Industries of America, a trade
group, estimates that craft sales grew about 4% last year to
$6.82 billion. Craft customers generally are women who today
are more likely to paint sweatshirts or design a floral
arrangement than work latch-rugs and who spend $10 to $12 on
an average trip to the craft store. A 1990 survey by the
hobbies group found that 77% of all U.S. households
participated in some craft or hobby in 1990, up from just 64%
in 1988.
   Despite the growth, the business has been rocky for crafts
retailers. At least three regional chains have sought refuge
from creditors in bankruptcy court in the past two years.
Michaels's largest direct competitor, Leewards Creative
Crafts Inc. of Elgin, Ill., withdrew a $29.9 million initial
public offering just before closing in November because its
third-quarter earnings were well below projections. John
Kirkeide, chief financial officer, said the 88-store chain
has put expansion plans on hold "until some equity funding is
put into the business."
   And Ben Franklin Retail Stores Inc., which has 225
franchised crafts outlets as well as variety stores, has yet
to complete an initial public offering announced in November.
   In contrast, Michaels sold almost 3.5 million shares at
$19 each in a January offering.
   The difference can be attributed at least in part to the
fact that Michaels spotted its problems earlier than its
competitors. After a failed buy-out distracted management and
wiped out earnings in fiscal 1990, Michaels realized
inventories were out of hand. It abandoned a management
system that called for top store managers in a region to
oversee others and let store managers "buy merchandise from
anybody they wanted at any price they wanted," said Douglas
B. Sullivan, executive vice president.
   Now the company has 12 district managers and three
regional managers who share information and compare results.
Store layouts were standardized, and regional pricing
replaced national pricing, allowing some price increases.
Buying is now centralized, and 80% of each store's
merchandise comes from a companywide "basic assortment."
Managers choose the rest but must buy from approved vendors.
   Mr. Wyly also brought in Don Thompson, a longtime
associate, as president and hired Michael Dupey, founder of
the store chain, who also owns his own chain of crafts
stores, as a consultant to improve its merchandise. Mr. Dupey
encouraged the company to expand its floral departments and
beef up purchases of seasonal items such as Halloween
decorations, straw wreaths for fall and lights and artificial
trees at Christmas. A 25% rise in such purchases last fall
stoked sales increases of more than 20% for the last four
months of 1991.
   Michaels parted with Mr. Dupey last fall after Jack E.
Bush, a veteran retailer, succeeded Mr. Thompson, who
resigned because of health problems. Mr. Bush says Michaels's
merchandising staff, now larger and better trained, can
handle the buying itself. He also set to work to improve
customer service, sending out "mystery shoppers" to
distribute roughly $20,000 in $100 and $1,000 bonuses to
especially helpful employees.
   Recognizing that many of its customers have little time
for elaborate crafts, the stores have emphasized simpler
projects, offering demonstrations and samples almost daily
and distributing thousands of detailed instruction sheets on
decorative projects such as Hats Off to Brenda Bunny, Heart
Mousie and Easter Egg Train. The stores also carry more
partly finished goods, such as throw rugs that can be
appliqued or embroidered, and have doubled their offerings in
craft classes.
   To call attention to new products and promotions such as
"midnight madness" and invitation-only sales, Michaels has
upped its advertising budget to more than $20 million for the
current year from $16.5 million last year.
   With more than $30 million in cash on hand, officials say
Michaels can rev up the growth engine without taking on new
debt. In fact, it recently signed a $20 million credit line
with NationsBank replacing a more restrictive $45 million
line.
   "We have both the management and financial resources to
handle that sort of growth," says Mr. Wyly, whose family owns
about 25% of the company's shares. He says the company has
identified places where it can operate 600 more stores. "We
can open them sooner or we can open them later," he says.
   ---
            Michaels Stores Inc. by the Numbers
                                                                                                       

                     The Fundamentals
                                                                                                       

                                   1992             1991*
                                                                                                       

       SALES ($ millions)          $104.9          $362.0

       EPS                          $0.85           $0.57
                                                                                                       

   NOTE: Years ended Feb. 2
   *Estimated income before $3.8 million extraordinary charge
for debt retirement
   **Fiscal 1991 was a 53-week period.
                                                                                                       

   MAJOR PRODUCT LINE:
                                                                                                       

   Michaels Stores Inc. owns 140 stores selling art supplies,
picture frames, crafts and decorative products, such as silk
and dried flowers
                                                                                                       

   MAJOR COMPETITORS:
                                                                                                       

   Ben Franklin Retail Stores Inc., with 225 franchised craft
sotres and four company-wide outlets and Leewards Creaive
Crafts Inc., with 88 stores, are the other large chains. But
Michaels most competes with a number of regional chains,
independent stores and discounters, such as Kmart and and
Wal-Mart, which have sizable crafts departments