BMW, Considering a U.S. Auto Plant,
   Is Giving Anderson, S.C., the Once Over
   ----
   By Krystal Miller
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
A spokesman for BMW's U.S. sales arm said the auto maker
is "conducting a long-term study" of its production needs,
and is including sites in the U.S. as well as in Europe. In
the U.S., the search is focused on the area near Anderson,
S.C. The BMW spokesman said an assembly facility is one
option. Another is for BMW to build a facility that would
make parts.
   BMW told dealers of its study in a bulletin sent Friday.
The bulletin followed reports in an Anderson, S.C., newspaper
that the auto maker was scouting the area for a factory site.
   Mickey Joy, general manager of Century BMW in Greenville,
S.C., said he hopes BMW does open a U.S. plant. "I'm for
anything that provides jobs for Americans," he says. "People
might look more favorably on BMW and that could improve our
sales."
   BMW's U.S. sales have been sliding since they hit a peak
of 96,759 in 1986. Last year, BMW sold just 52,581 cars in
the U.S., down 16.3% from 1990.
   The weakness of the dollar against the mark, relatively
high German wages and expensive assembly practices have
pushed the prices of many BMW models to uncompetitive levels
in the U.S. Moreover, a wave of Japanese luxury models, as
well as some recent Big Three entries such as the new
Cadillac Seville, have wooed away many one-time BMW buyers.
   Assembling cars in a low-cost, low-volume U.S. facility
could, at least in theory, help BMW lower its costs and
prices.
   But BMW's current level of U.S. sales wouldn't sustain a
typical assembly facility. Thus, BMW dealers speculate the
company may be considering a relatively small, low-cost
facility that would perform final assembly on vehicles
shipped in pieces from Germany. BMW currently has three
assembly plants in Germany that produce 525,000 cars
annually.
   If BMW does build a production plant here, it will be the
only European manufacturer to have a passenger car assembly
facility in the U.S. Mercedes-Benz AG and Volvo AB currently
operate truck assembly plants here.