Inside Track:
   Officials of U.S. Bioscience Sell Shares
   Of Issue That Set Record High Yesterday
   ----
   By Alexandra Peers
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
U.S. Bioscience, a West Conshohocken, Pa., pharmaceutical
company, is one of many hot biotechnology companies yet to
produce earnings. But the price of its stock has soared
fivefold this year on hopes for relatively swift Food and
Drug Administration approval of Ethyol, a drug intended to
protect healthy cells from the toxic effects of chemotherapy.
   The company meets with an FDA advisory committee on Jan.
31. While an FDA decision on whether to approve Ethyol won't
come until later, announcement of the meeting last November
sent the stock's price up more than $20 in a week -- a leap
that prompted the American Stock Exchange to take the rare
move of easing some of the speculative risk by banning
stop-loss and stop-limit orders, which can snowball into a
sharp price drop for a stock.
   Dr. Schein, who is addressing analysts today at a
Hambrecht  Quist conference in San Francisco on health and
biotech issues, said his stock sales were "just a matter of
diversifying." He said U.S. Bioscience has enjoyed its huge
run-up in part because of "the biotech sector in which we've
been traveling."
   But he argued that U.S. Bioscience is different from --
and potentially stronger than -- some other biotechs that are
investigating recombinant DNA or immunology. U.S. Bioscience
is "more conventional," he said, and some of its products are
in later stages of development.
   Patricia Padgett Lea, an analyst at Vector Securities
International, a Deerfield, Ill., investment firm, says U.S.
Bioscience would be fairly priced at $98 a share. The company
is much closer to having salable products than many other
pharmaceutical and biotech companies "that are coming up with
very high valuations," she said. It is "highly unlikely" that
the FDA won't eventually approve Ethyol, she said, and the
drug will have "a much larger market than you normally see in
the cancer area."
   Ms. Lea predicts 1993 earnings of $2.58 a share; Alex
Brown  Sons Inc. expects $2.10 a share.
   Some analysts expressed concern that the Ethyol patent
expires next July. But Dr. Schein said the FDA has given
Ethyol "orphan drug status" for some applications, which
would protect U.S. Bioscience's market share. The company has
also applied for an extension of the patent, he said.
   All told, SEC filings show, Dr. Schein, five officers or
directors of the company, and a trust in Dr. Schein and his
wife's names have sold 256,900 shares since Oct. 18 at prices
ranging from $43.13 to $76.50. (The total doesn't include an
additional 138,465 shares sold by a marketing executive no
longer with U.S. Bioscience.)
   The company plans a 2-for-1 split of common stock, payable
Jan. 16 to stock of record Dec. 26. st
   ---
   LOGICAL BUYING: Sam S. Srinivasan, chief financial officer
of Cirrus Logic Inc., recently tripled his holdings in the
company. His purchases were the first open-market insider
stock purchases at the Milpitas, Calif., computer concern
since 1990, SEC filings show.
   Mr. Srinivasan bought 33,000 shares in the days following
the company's Nov. 25 statement that earnings for the third
quarter ended Dec. 31 would fall below the second quarter's
33 cents a share, in part because of softness in the personal
computer market. "Sometimes you find great buys when
institutions dump a stock in fear, even though the
fundamentals haven't changed," said Mr. Srinivasan. "This was
such a case."
   He purchased 25,000 shares in the open market between Nov.
26 and Dec. 3, and exercised options to acquire another 7,500
shares on Nov. 27, according to SEC filings. That brought his
total holdings to 42,983 shares. At least on paper, the
purchases were profitable. Mr. Srinivasan paid an average
price of $13.02 each for the shares purchased in the open
market. In over-the-counter trading, Cirrus Logic shares
closed yesterday at $17.75, up $1.625.