Your Money Matters:
   Taking Early Profits on Bonds May Add Up to Losses
   ----
   By Lynn Asinof
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The problem is that once you have the profit, you need to
reinvest. "But where do you put the money to get equivalent
return?" asks Robert E. Willard, a Colorado Springs, Colo.,
financial planner.
   Because of today's lower yields, taking profits on bonds
means staying even at best for most investors. "I have rarely
seen it work to the advantage of the seller," says Robert G.
Levine, a vice president in the Winnetka, Ill., office of
regional brokerage firm Robert W. Baird  Co., Milwaukee.
   And if you are swapping municipal bonds, you can actually
end up losing money, says Bruce Whiteford, manager of
fixed-income at Chase Manhattan's U.S. Private Banking.
That's because you are trading tax-free income for a taxable
capital gain. "Net, net, on an after-tax basis, you are
better off earning your return in a tax-exempt form," he
says.
   Here's how the numbers work. Let's say that in 1982 you
bought $100,000 of noncallable, AA-rated, state general
obligation bonds due in the year 2000 and yielding 11.25%.
They would generate $11,250 a year of tax-free income.
   If you sold today, you would get a nice profit, since
those bonds are now valued at $136,961. But your $36,961 gain
would be taxed at 28%, cutting your profit to only $26,612.
   Moreover, if you reinvested that $126,612 in similar
bonds, you would get a yield of only about 5.7%, dropping the
annual tax-free income produced by your investment to $7,217.
That's a loss of $4,033 in tax-free income a year. Over eight
years, that comes to $32,264 in lost income.
   The bottom line? If you hold your original bonds until
they mature in 2000, you will have your $100,000 of principal
back plus eight years of interest, or $90,000, for a total of
$190,000. But if you sold today and bought equivalent bonds,
you would have only $184,348 in principal and interest, or
$5,652 less.
   It's the same story even if your bond is likely to be
"called at par" -- that is, redeemed at face value -- before
maturity. While it may seem like you will do better by
selling the bond before it is called and reinvesting the
money in a noncallable bond, the market has already priced
your bond to its call date. "Selling it early, you have to
sell it at the market price," says Mr. Whiteford.
   "For any bond swap to be successful, you have to give up
something," says Mr. Levine. "You are either going to give up
yield, give up quality or change the investment objective
from, let's say, tax-exempt to taxable."
   That means people who decide to sell their bonds need
other reasons than just the desire to lock up profits. Some
may need a profit to offset a loss on their income taxes.
Others may want to shift their portfolio, changing maturities
or trading yield for increased face value at maturity.
   Elderly clients of Mr. Levine's, for example, recently
cashed in some long-term bonds, taking the profits and
repositioning their portfolio. But the idea was not to make a
killing, but rather to shorten the portfolio's maturity to a
maximum of six years from the previous 25 years.
   Repositioning portfolios to improve credit quality can
also make sense, given the large number of expected
municipal-bond defaults and downgradings. "Clear out the poor
credit ratings," says Herbert Davidson, senior vice president
at Financial Management Group Inc., a money-management firm
in McLean, Va. By making the switch now, he says, you may be
able to not only avoid losses in the future, but perhaps even
lock in some profits.
   Of course, there are always those who are willing to bet
that interest rates are going to head up, selling bonds at a
profit with plans to invest for higher yield later. But if
you take that approach, "you are now a speculator," says Mr.
Levine. And if you guess wrong, he says, you may be left
sitting on your profits for a long, long time.