SEC Report Discounts Wider Advantage
   To Salomon From Its Treasurys Scheme
   ----
   By Kevin G. Salwen and John Connor
   Staff Reporters of the Wall Street Journal
The report, to Sen. Joseph Lieberman (D., Conn.), rebuts a
conspiracy theory that has repeatedly been put forth in the
halls of Congress. Several senior officials of the Salomon
Inc. unit had oversight authority over both the firm's
Treasury-securities department and other departments, and the
firm has admitted to falsifying bids and cornering the market
for government bonds and notes. This led congressional
officials and others to wonder whether the firm was able to
profit in futures and options markets by knowing how its
trading desk and customers planned to bid in the coming
Treasury auctions.
   As far and away the largest player in the government
securities market, Salomon would have been able to know with
more certainty just what the final auction price would have
been.
   Despite that, the report, written as a memo by William
Heyman, director of market regulation, repeatedly contends
that it is "difficult" to profit in futures, options,
currencies, certificates of deposit or other financial
products simply because an investor might have "advance
knowledge of the results of a particular Treasury auction."
   The SEC report said that "while the auction of a
particular Treasury instrument could have some influence on
interest rates and the overall yield curve, other factors,
such as Federal Reserve policy and the state of the economy,
probably have a more significant impact."
   The SEC, Justice Department and U.S. Attorney's Office in
Manhattan are investigating the wrongdoing at Salomon, which
has changed management and fired the senior officials
allegedly responsible for the illegal activities. But the
government inquiry is moving slowly, and it isn't clear what
sanctions the government will try to impose on the firm or
its former aides.
   The latest report raises doubts about whether the SEC's
inquiry will determine that there were problems in any market
other than the Treasury-securities market and in the related
market for the debt of government-sponsored agencies.
Although the report to Sen. Lieberman wasn't written by the
enforcement division, which is conducting the SEC
investigation, it bore a cover letter from SEC Chairman
Richard Breeden and would reflect the agency's broader view
of the issue.
   On another government-securities market front, the SEC's
Mr. Heyman said in a separate report that the decline in the
number of interdealer brokers shouldn't hurt the liquidity or
efficiency of the market. He said recent price drops for
brokers' services "suggest that there is room for price
competition in the interdealer brokerage market" and added
that "it does not appear necessary at this time to regulate
access or pricing" in this market.
   Interdealer brokers, of which there are currently seven,
facilitate trading in the government-securities market,
disseminating quotes and last-sale prices submitted by
customers and executing transactions as ordered.
   ---
   Corrections  Amplifications
                                                                                                       

   SALOMON BROTHERS Inc. has acknowledged buying, along with
customers, 87% of the two-year Treasury notes in last May's
auction but has denied that it cornered the market for the
notes. Friday's edition incorrectly said the firm admitted
cornering the market.
   (WSJ Jan. 14, 1992)