International:
   World Wire
   ----
   Compiled by Linda D. Bohrer
The number of violent incidents aimed at foreigners in
Germany increased tenfold in 1991, according to a
confidential government report published in part by the
Berlin newspaper B.Z.
   The newspaper quoted the report as saying that recorded
attacks on foreigners rose from an annual average of 200-250
to 2,368 in 1991, the first full year of German unification.
   The report said federal criminal investigation authorities
recorded hundreds of fire bombings of hostels housing
asylum-seekers as well as physical assaults on individuals.
The problem has prompted a police crackdown on neo-Nazi gangs
and a greater effort to protect foreigners in the country.
   Most of the culprits were neo-Nazi skinheads and
right-wing high school students, vocational apprentices or
unemployed young people, the report said.
                                                                                                       

   INDIA DECONTROLS STEEL PRICES
                                                                                                       

   India deregulated steel prices, opening a vital sector to
free-market forces and moving boldly despite mounting
political opposition to radical economic reform. Steel
prices, which the government has controlled since
independence in 1947, were to be deregulated as of midnight
Thursday. The government will retain partial control of steel
distribution for "sensitive sectors," and help major steel
consumers such as defense, railways and other key government
enterprises get priority in procuring the metal. A 20% cut in
import tariffs on steel products was also announced.
                                                                                                       

   FRANCE TARGETS PORNO SERVICES
                                                                                                       

   The French government has imposed a 50% income tax on the
"message services" that enable users to talk dirty on
computer screens. The 28 services subject to the decree,
bearing such names as "Confess" and "Envy," are available
through Minitel, the state home computer network that is
hooked into about one-fifth of France's phone lines. The tax,
a substantial increase over the usual 34% commercial income
tax, represents a rare assault on pornography, which is
widespread in France. In a separate move, Paris police
announced the nightly closure beginning Monday of four main
roads crossing the Bois de Boulogne, a suburban park that has
become synonymous with prostitution in the French capital.
Roads leading to popular sports grounds and restaurants will
remain open.
                                                                                                       

   IRAQI AIRLINE RESUMES SERVICE
                                                                                                       

   Iraq's national carrier resumed domestic services after a
year-long suspension caused by the Gulf War. Iraqi Airways
flew 33 passengers from Baghdad to Basra to mark the
resumption of commercial flights, the official Iraqi News
Agency said. No flight schedule was given, nor did the agency
say if service would be resumed to other cities in Iraq.
World airports remain closed to the Iraqi flag carrier under
tight United Nations trade sanctions imposed after Saddam
Hussein's August 1990 invasion of Kuwait.

   KUWAIT ASKS JAPAN FOR HELP
                                                                                                       

   Kuwait asked Japan for more cooperation from its private
sector in its post-war reconstruction efforts. Kuwait's oil
minister, Hamoud al-Rquba, told visiting Japanese Minister of
International Trade and Industry Kozo Watanabe that Kuwait
would welcome Japanese participation in various fields, such
as construction of power plants and desalinization
facilities.
                                                                                                       

   AUSTRALIA TO ACCEPT GATT CODE
                                                                                                       

   Australia said it will accept the General Agreement on
Tariffs and Trade product testing standards code as soon as
is practical. Trade Minister John Kerin said acceptance of
the Agreement on Technical Barriers to Trade, known as the
standards code, would improve Australia's access to world
markets. Australia's acceptance of the code will go into
effect 30 days after it notifies GATT.
                                                                                                       

   EC DELAYS VOTE ON TOBACCO ADS
                                                                                                       

   The European Parliament delayed its vote on controversial
proposals to ban almost all tobacco advertising throughout
the European Community, a move that marked a minor victory
for the tobacco industry lobby.
   Opponents of the proposed measure succeeded in getting it
referred to the legal affairs committee, which will be asked
to rule on whether the EC Commission has chosen the correct
legal basis for the legislation. The ban was proposed as
singlemarket legislation, which is subject to weighted
majority voting by EC ministers. But some members of the
Parliament argued that it is health legislation, which needs
unanimous approval.
   The decision, which is likely to postpone the Parliament's
first reading by one month, was attacked by supporters of the
ban as a delaying tactic.
   During ministerial talks, Britain, Germany and the
Netherlands staunchly opposed the ban, and the three
countries have enough votes to block the move. Denmark this
week dropped its opposition to the measure.
                                                                                                       

   POSTSCRIPTS . . .
                                                                                                       

   Contracts won by British firms in the reconstruction of
Kuwait covered the net cost of Britain's military
contribution to the Gulf War. British companies won a total
of more than 100 contracts, valued at nearly #500 million
($876 million), to help rebuild Kuwait. The campaign cost
Britain #2.5 billion, but some #2 billion of this was
recouped from foreign governments, leaving a net cost roughly
equivalent to the contracts. . . . Taiwan's total trade with
Eastern Europe jumped 56.1% in 1991 to $707.6 million.