Enterprise:
   Dial `M' for Misleading Claims of Coin-Operated Riches
   ---
   Complaints About Alleged Pay-Phone
   And Vending-Machine Scams Mount
   ----
   By John R. Emshwiller
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Many fledgling entrepreneurs are finding that business
opportunities are multiplying these days. Trouble is, they
are the opportunities.
   Law-enforcement officials and others say fraudulent
business offers are on the rise, and more Americans are
falling prey. The recession makes potential victims eager to
buy into a business venture that promises sure-fire income,
officials add.
   The result is often devastating. While many scams cost the
business owner a few hundred dollars and make him feel
foolish, business-venture schemes cost the victim a whole
business. Moreover, such schemes are often the hardest type
to fight because their promoters at least go through the
motions of helping establish a neophyte in a business, such
as a string of pay telephones or vending machines.
   Jody Collins, a Florida assistant attorney general, says
questionable business offers are "the big new scam," and
likens them to "an amoeba dividing and spreading across the
country." She says Florida authorities have received over 100
complaints about alleged phone and vending-machine frauds
alone in the past 10 months vs. almost none in the prior
year. Herschel Elkins, a senior assistant attorney general
for California, says business-opportunity frauds are
"flourishing."
   Nancy Castle and Louise Vaughn are typical of
entrepreneurs who say they have been fleeced. They say they
paid about $70,000 to Communication Systems of America of
Pompano Beach, Fla., for 26 pay phones and have gotten little
but grief in return.
   Since the breakup of American Telephone  Telegraph Co.,
other companies and individuals have been able to buy pay
telephones, lease locations for them and connect the
equipment to the local phone company and a long-distance
carrier. Some companies sell equipment to smaller operators
and help them find locations.
   A suit filed by Ms. Castle in a Redwood City, Calif.,
state court charges Communication Systems with breach of
contract and "intentional misrepresentation." (Ms. Vaughn
says she didn't sue because "only lawyers win" in
litigation.)
   The suit contends that Communication Systems "guaranteed"
each phone would produce revenue of at least $200 a month and
promised to help find lucrative locations. But, the suit
asserts, only one phone was placed, for lack of available
locations. It also claims the equipment arrived late and "in
poor condition."
   Communication Systems hasn't filed a response to the suit,
according to the state court clerk's office, and company
officials couldn't be reached.
   Meanwhile, Florida has filed suit in a Broward County
state court against Communication Systems, its president,
Brad Sirkin, and an allegedly related vending machine
company. It charges that the defendants overestimated the
income to be made and in some cases took people's money
without delivering the phones or the vending machines, which
dispense fruit juice. The phones cost an average of $4,000
each and the vending machines $3,000 each, the suit says.
   Robert Forman, an attorney for the defendants in the
Florida state suit, says his clients deny any wrongdoing.
However, he says he doesn't know Mr. Sirkin's whereabouts and
hasn't talked to him for some time. Communication Systems is
out of business, says Mr. Forman. Its telephone has been
disconnected.
   Other companies also attract complaints. Philip Halverson,
a Los Angeles attorney representing Ms. Castle, says he is
involved in five suits around the country against private
pay-phone companies. Some of those other companies "sold the
same location three or four times to different people," he
says.
   Of course, many pay phone ventures are completely
legitimate. But Robert Aldrich, an attorney for the American
Public Communications Council, a trade group of independent
pay-phone operators, says complaints about suspected scams
have started coming in from around the country over the past
six months.
   A spokeswoman for the California Pay-phone Association
says her trade group has been receiving as many as five
complaints a day about alleged scams over the past several
months compared with practically none previously.
   Some pay-phone companies are telling prospects that "they
will only have to spend 10 minutes a week picking up coins
from their phone," says the spokeswoman. The reality, she
says, is that successful pay phones require a lot of
oversight and knowledge by the owner. Some pay-phone sellers
"claim it is a get-rich-quick (business) and it isn't," she
adds.
   Neither is the Pop N' Nut vending machine, according to a
suit filed by about 60 plaintiffs in a Palm Beach, Fla.,
state court. That suit charges several individuals and
companies with fraud and misrepresentation. Jeffrey Liggio,
the plaintiffs' attorney, says his clients spent over $1
million buying the machines, which supposedly can pop popcorn
or roast peanuts on the spot. The defendants have all denied
the charges and are seeking to have the suit dismissed.
   According to the suit, the plaintiffs often traveled to
the Pop N' Nut factory in Boca Raton, Fla., at the companies'
behest, each carrying a $5,000 cashier's check as a deposit.
Machines cost about $5,000 each and a minimum of three had to
be bought, the suit says. The machines purchased by the
plaintiffs didn't work, the suit contends.
   "This has been a nightmare beyond belief," says Robert S.
Lawrence of Minneapolis, one plaintiff. He says that he and a
partner spent over $50,000 on 15 Pop N' Nut machines. Mr.
Lawrence says he had hoped to turn the machines into a
full-time business to replace his work as a housing
developer, which has been badly hurt by the recession.
   Instead, Mr. Lawrence says, he and his partner have 15
machines gathering dust in a garage. "In the six weeks we had
them in the field, we didn't make enough money to cover our
gas, considering all the service calls," says Mr. Lawrence.
   An attorney for several of the defendants in the case
declines to comment on specific charges, but says his clients
did nothing wrong. An attorney for another of the defendants
says the matter is simply a business dispute that didn't
involve any fraud.