Winter Olympics 1992 -- On the Games:
   Gold for Blair, the Overlooked U.S. Superstar
   ----
   By Frederick C. Klein
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The fact was that Ms. Blair was neither little nor a girl.
She stood a respectable 5-foot-5, and was 23 years old, two
years into her majority. She's 27 now, and still 5-5 on the
tape. But yesterday, on a balmy afternoon better suited to
April baseball than to her rosy-cheeked specialty, she added
a few feet to her natural stature by mounting another medal
platform.
   The event again was the 500 meters, and the medal, again,
was gold. Her time over a wet-looking track in 48-degree
weather (it had been close to 60 earlier in the day) was
40.33 seconds, well above the world record 39.10 she set in
winning at Calgary. But her margin of victory was 0.18-second
over runner-up Ye Qiaobo of China, substantial by the
standards of their sport. By contrast, Ms. Blair edged
Christa Rothenburger of East Germany by 0.02-second four
years ago.
   Interestingly, Ms. Rothenburger, now a married Christa
Luding, new mother and German-without-compass point, finished
third yesterday. She's 32 years old, fairly ancient for a
speed-skating sprinter. Also interestingly, Ms. Ye's medal
was a Winter Olympics first for China.
   As in '88, Bonnie won medal No. 1 for the U.S. at these
Games, and while two days of results does not an Olympics
make, it's becoming apparent that others may be harder to
come by than was expected. Two prime American medal
contenders -- Alpine skier A.J. Kitt and luger Duncan Kennedy
-- have completed their specialties sans medals, Mr. Kitt
having finished ninth in the downhill Sunday and Mr. Kennedy
10th in the men's singles yesterday.
   Americans figure to be strong in figure skating and the
new sport of freestyle skiing, and have a couple of female
luge hopefuls, but beyond that it looks as though the speed
skaters again must carry the U.S. medal burden. Ms. Blair
will be a favorite in the women's 1,000 meters Friday, Dan
Jansen has solid shots in the men's 500 (Saturday) and 1,000
(next Tuesday), and Eric Flaim could place high in the 1,500
Sunday. If anyone else scores, it'd be a surprise.
   It has been thus for quite some time; without the
big-thigh brigade, the U.S. winter treasury would be much
lower than it is. Speed skaters accounted for 42 of the total
U.S. Winter Olympic medal haul of 122 coming here, and 26 of
the 51 since 1968. The sport produced our biggest
winter-sports hero ever in Eric Heiden, the five-gold winner
of 1980.
   The reason for this, I guess, is that of the Winter
Olympics schedule, speed skating is longest on pure athletic
ability and shortest on the technical stuff with which we
Yanks tend to lose patience. It's also the cheapest to take
up. Barefoot boy, or girl, with cheek of tan can easily strap
on skates when the ponds freeze. Messing with skis or a
bobsled is a good deal more trouble, curling is something one
does with one's hair, and who even knows what a luge is?
   Bonnie Blair, however, stands out even among her bemedaled
colleagues. She is the first American speed skater to win
golds in consecutive Olympics, and the first women's
500-meters winner to repeat. She is, moreover, a nice and
pleasant person, comfortable with her status as a superstar
of a generally overlooked sport.
   Her 1988 victory brought her a modicum of commercial
reward, including endorsement-appearance deals with a number
of companies, but the sometime-college student notes that she
is far, farther and farthest from the Michael Jordan class in
that department. If she were a figure skater performing in a
costume that exposed plenty of leg, arm, neck and shoulder,
and with an Ice Capades in which to exploit her awards, she'd
have a fine financial future. But speed skaters do their
thing enclosed head-to-ankle in Lycra. "Nobody ever sees my
hair]" she likes to joke in mock horror.
   The drama of Ms. Blair's 1988 win was the razor-thin slice
she lopped off the world record Ms. Rothenburger had set
minutes earlier. Here, it was her elbow-to-elbow matchup with
the German Angela Hauck, the 1990 world sprint champion who
Ms. Blair considered among her toughest rivals. Such pairings
are rare in a sport where the main race is against the clock
rather than human foes. And as the day's fifth pair, with the
other top contenders having already skated, she knew the time
she had to beat.
   Ms. Blair later said she skated her first 100 meters
pretty well, and didn't remember much about the rest of the
race. In fact, she exploded ahead of Ms. Hauck on the first
turn -- after that initial stretch -- and held the resulting
lead throughout. Bonnie beat Ms. Hauck handily and Ms. Ye,
who had skated in the second pair, by the equivalent of about
three meters.
   There was a note of controversy in the race because the
27-year-old Ms. Ye and her pairing partner, Elena
Tiouchniakova of the United Team, appeared to have difficulty
with a lane crossover; Ms. Ye said later (in halting English)
that if not for the problem "I think I had a chance at a gold
medal." But she appeared more sad than irate and added,
tearfully, "maybe I'll be successful another time."
   Upon crossing the finish line, Ms. Blair checked her time
on the huge electronic scoreboard before her. When she saw
the news was good she raised a hand in triumph and waved
delightedly at supporters, including about 50 friends and
relatives, who had bedecked the half-filled grandstand with
homemade signs calling for her victory.
   And she flipped off her hood, so the world could see her
hair. FYI, it's brown.