Metropolitan Life
   Is Thwarted By GE
   In Foreclosure Bid
   ----
   By Neil Barsky
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The bankruptcy filing, made late last month, also
illustrates how far commercial real estate values have fallen
in Manhattan over the past two years. In 1990, GE took the
properties over from a struggling limited partnership managed
by First Winthrop Corp. after the properties' income stream
started to deteriorate.
   Real estate executives said they couldn't recall another
instance where buildings, in effect, were foreclosed on by
successive lenders.
   The buildings in question, at 61 Broadway and 366 Madison
Ave., have combined mortgages of about $90 million. Both are
more than 70 years old and have been hurt by the effects of
tenant defections and plunging Manhattan rents. Technically,
they are owned by affiliates of the GE pension trust, which
invests the pension money of GE employees. GE Investments
controls about $40 billion in assets held by GE employees and
outside investors.
   Despite its sizable $25 billion portfolio of commercial
mortgages, Metropolitan Life isn't believed to have serious
real estate problems, and its strategy of foreclosing on the
properties is more likely a sign of strength than of
weakness.
   "It's the company policy not to talk about matters in
litigation, and a foreclosure that has been stayed by the
bankruptcy court is a litigious matter," said a Metropolitan
Life spokesman.
   GE officials declined to comment.
   Late last year, GE Investments foreclosed on a $60 million
mortgage on the Gulf  Western building, currently the
headquarters for Paramount Communications. Seeking to avert a
foreclosure, First Winthrop then placed the building into
bankruptcy protection.
   Like the other building, the Gulf  Western building was
owned by the troubled First Winthrop partnership. That
partnership is shaping up as one of the great victims of the
1990s real estate debacle. In 1984, First Winthrop bought a
portfolio of 19 New York buildings from the MacArthur
Foundation for $430 million. GE Investment issued mortgages
to eight of those properties. Of the eight, six are now in
bankruptcy protection, including the two that filed late last
year.
   First Winthrop officials didn't return telephone calls.