Health:
   U.S. to Delay
   Enforcing Plan
   To Relabel Meat
   ----
   By Bruce Ingersoll
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The USDA package of deregulatory initiatives -- to be
announced today by Agriculture Secretary Edward Madigan and
White House officials -- also includes regulatory relief for
borrowers from the Farmers Home Administration and a plan to
streamline the Food Safety and Inspection Service's
label-approval process, according to administration
officials.
   The Agriculture Department, like other agencies, is
helping President Bush make good on a pledge he made in his
Jan. 28 State of the Union address to roll back regulation
and slash red tape. Mr. Bush has been dispensing favors to
various industries while campaigning for the Republican
Party's presidential nomination, and any delay in
nutrition-labeling rules would be welcomed by the $280
billion food industry and its political action committees.
   Uniform nutrition labeling has strong support from
consumer advocates, who contend that shoppers are being
confused -- and frequently misled -- by nutritional claims.
Under the joint initiative, food processors would be required
to put uniform labels on their products and follow strict
rules for making health claims and touting nutritional
attributes. Among other things, they no longer would be able
to shrink so-called serving sizes for the purpose of being
able to call a product "low sodium" or "low calorie."
   The USDA estimates that its mandatory labeling plan will
affect 338,000 meat and poultry products, ranging from
pepperoni to beef soup to hot dogs. Separately, it has
proposed a voluntary labeling program for fresh meat and
poultry. The FDA has proposed a similar voluntary approach
for fresh produce, fish and seafood. But if retailers fail to
post or distribute nutritional information on these items,
both agencies will make the program mandatory.
   The USDA and FDA had planned to issue final labeling
regulations this November 1992 and to give the food industry
six months -- until May 1993 -- to comply. While the vast
majority of the processors say they favor nutrition labeling,
they insist the compliance deadline is impossible to meet.
   The American Meat Institute, which represents the nation's
major meat processors, estimates the first-year cost at $2.5
billion to $3 billion. If the cost were passed along to
consumers, it would boost processed meat prices 7% to 9%,
according to the trade group.
   The group has asked the USDA for a three-year phase-in to
allow processors to spread out the costs of relabeling and,
in some cases, reformulating meat and poultry products. The
National Food Processors Association, meanwhile, has urged
the FDA to put off the deadline for one year. Other trade
groups have appealed for an even longer stretch-out.
   The FDA's regulatory timetable is mandated by the
Nutrition Labeling and Education Act of 1990. The USDA
decided to follow the same timetable to avoid confusion in
the marketplace. For the FDA to postpone food relabeling for
one year -- until May 1994 -- it must first reach a so-called
legal finding that the May 1993 deadline would impose an
undue hardship on the industry.
   Last night, an FDA official said the agency will consider
the question of undue hardship as it reviews 32,000 comments
from consumers, retailers, processors and others.
   At a news briefing here this morning, Mr. Madigan is due
to announce a plan to cut excessive paperwork for Farmers
Home Administration borrowers, including farmers, real estate
developers and small businesses. At the same time, the
agriculture secretary will commit the USDA to overhauling the
product-labeling process.