Notable & Quotable
With communism in ruin and economics dominating the world
agenda, the set of ties between Japan and the United States
emerges as critical, not only to the two countries, but to
the rest of the world. This is likely to remain true into the
next century. America and Japan, along with Western Europe,
are key to world economic prosperity. Just when the
opportunities are greatest, however, the U.S.-Japan alliance
is in difficulty.
   The U.S.-Japan "problem" began in trade but has grown into
a problem of attitude, characterized by suspicion (as in the
Gulf War) and a tendency to ascribe failings in the
relationship to the other party. The increase in economic
competition has spurred contention, often as the result of
differences between the way the two countries' economies
operate. The differences are apparent in business-government
relations; in corporate attitudes towards trade and
investment; and in the regulation of the two economies.
   The blame for this contentious attitude must be shared.
Japan sheltered its growth under a protectionist umbrella,
which lasted long after Japanese industries became fully
competitive. But Americans have themselves to blame for many
of the underlying causes of reduced competitiveness: the
state of our primary and secondary education; a low rate of
savings and investment and a crumbling infrastructure; a
health care system with soaring costs; a large federal budget
deficit; a seeming preoccupation with short-range shareholder
values; and, a consequent lack of long-term incentives for
industrial modernization and R&D.
   The American and Japanese publics understand the world has
changed; they sense the need for a new vision of the
relationship. The governments want to maintain the alliance,
but need to define it in terms of that new vision. The media
in both countries is focused on economic tension, and may
treat the 50th anniversary of Japan's attack on Pearl Harbor
as sensation, rather than as a solemn commemoration. Little
is heard about the wisdom of a generation -- of Truman,
MacArthur and Yoshida -- who turned enemies into allies and
dictatorship into democracy.
   It has become standard to think of each other in
adversarial terms, particularly in the United States where
the debate has been dominated by our trade deficit. Still,
there are reasons for optimism. Democracy binds us together.
So do the unquestioned benefits to both societies of the vast
economic interchange between us. Both countries value the
security and political ties of the alliance. Even in trade,
the U.S. deficit with Japan has eased from $60 billion to $41
billion in the last three years, though it is unclear whether
further substantial reduction will take place in the near
future. The U.S. pursuit of market openings in Japan has made
our country an advocate for Japanese consumers, who have been
long denied access to foreign goods at competitive prices
(U.S. exports to Japan since 1987 have risen 50% while
imports from Japan have risen only 10%). A silent majority in
both countries still respects and has friendly feelings
toward the other, critical sentiments notwithstanding.