International -- Washington Insight:
   Castro's Opponents Jockey for Power
   In Mapping Out a Successor Regime
   ----
   By Robert S. Greenberger
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The current focus of the debate is the Cuban Democracy
Act, a bill in Congress that would tighten economic pressure
on Cuba and increase communications with the island. It would
expand the U.S. embargo of Cuba by taking such steps as
banning foreign affiliates of U.S. companies from shipping
goods there and cutting off U.S. aid to any nation that
provides assistance to Havana. It also would loosen certain
restrictions on social and political interaction between the
U.S. and Cuba -- for instance, by permitting direct mail and
telecommunications between the U.S. and Cuba, and encouraging
private assistance to dissident and human-rights groups
there.
   The measure is creating some strange political alliances
in Washington. It is sponsored by Rep. Robert Torricelli, a
liberal New Jersey Democrat who is chairman of the House
Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on Western Hemisphere Affairs.
The Bush administration has reservations about it; while
saying it isn't against increasing pressure on Cuba, the
administration objects to some of the ways the bill would
accomplish this. For instance, an official says, trying to
regulate the actions of foreign U.S. affiliates could be seen
as an effort to impose U.S. law on other nations.
   The hard-line Cuban-American National Foundation, which
traditionally has been closely aligned with U.S. Republican
administrations, strongly supports the Torricelli bill. The
group wants to knock Mr. Castro out quickly, and it believes
the bill offers the toughest way to do that.
   "We need to keep the pressure on because all resources go
to Castro," says Jorge Mas, chairman of the group. He likens
Mr. Castro to a feudal landowner who operates Cuba as his own
personal "farm."
   But several human-rights groups in Cuba, which normally
would be expected to be Mr. Torricelli's natural supporters,
oppose the measure. Ramon Cernuda, who represents four Cuban
human-rights groups, argues that the bill would help Mr.
Castro; by increasing tension between Washington and Havana,
he contends, the bill would play into the hands of the Cuban
leader, who frequently appeals to his people's nationalism by
focusing on the David-and-Goliath nature of his struggle with
the U.S.
   Moreover, many Cubans, sensitive to the history of U.S.
colonial domination of their country, believe it is important
that Washington not be seen as manipulating events on the
island. Some dissidents also are suspicious of Mr. Mas's
right-wing group, which they fear would be a throwback to the
U.S.-dominated dictatorship that preceded Mr. Castro.
   "If the alternative to Castro is a return to the past,"
says Mr. Cernuda, "many Cubans will continue to support the
government, even during hard economic times."
   Mr. Cernuda contends that the best way to deal with Mr.
Castro is, in effect, to kill him with kindness. He says the
groups he represents in Cuba believe the U.S. should offer to
initiate negotiations with Havana, reiterate frequently that
Washington won't resort to military action and work more
closely with Latin American and some European states that
criticize Mr. Castro's human-rights record. But he argues
against squeezing the regime economically.
   Other Cuban-American groups are adopting yet another
approach. Some exiled Cuban political parties are conducting
a campaign for a plebiscite in Cuba. Cuba's constitution
permits the right to petition the government if the petition
is supported by 10,000 signatures. Such a plebiscite was held
a few years ago, but the Cuban government confiscated the
signatures.
   Enrique Baloyra, a political science professor at Miami
University's Graduate School of International Studies who is
involved in this effort, says such activities are important
because they underscore that Cubans, not U.S. lawmakers, must
lead the transition in Cuba. "We don't expect a magical leap
from now into post-Castro," he says. "Some people have to
bring this about."