Gold Venture
   By Uzbekistan,
   U.S. Firm Nears
   ---
   Newmont Mining Expects
   To Sign Agreement Soon
   With Ex-Soviet State
   ----
   By Adi Ignatius
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Newmont Mining is in the final stages of evaluating the
project, but the Denver company believes it will be
profitable to produce and export gold at current world prices
of about $360 an ounce. Newmont Mining also expects to have
little trouble arranging financing for the project.
   "This is the sort of project that those who want to invest
in the former Soviet Union are looking for," said Newmont
Chairman Gordon Parker. "It is a solid project that will
generate hard currency with a fairly short pay-back period."
   The joint venture will make use of Newmont Mining's
experience in leeching techniques in gold processing. The
venture will purchase the right to process a 150 million-ton
dump of lower-grade material formed during the development of
the Muruntau gold mine, which is located about 250 miles
northwest of Tashkent, the republic's capital.
   The U.S.-Uzbek joint venture, which will last 20 years,
will be free to dispose of the gold as it wishes, and Mr.
Parker anticipates that it will sell what it develops "on
world markets at world prices." He expects to start producing
by early 1994 roughly 270,000 ounces a year through the
leeching process, or roughly 15% of Muruntau's annual output.
   Last year, Muruntau produced 1.8 million ounces of gold,
making it "probably the largest gold mine in the world," said
James Hill, a spokesman for Newmont Mining. Mr. Parker
described Muruntau as a "mine with extensive reserves that
will last well into the next century."
   Uzbekistan accounted for about 30% of the gold output of
the former Soviet Union, Mr. Parker said. Most of it came
from the Muruntau mine. In the past, Uzbekistan turned its
gold over to Soviet authorities in Moscow. Today, the Uzbek
government is free to do what it wants with its gold.
   Newmont Mining owns 90.1% of Newmont Gold Co., the largest
gold producer in the U.S. Last year, Newmont Gold produced
1.58 million ounces of gold from its five mines world-wide.