Marketing  Media:
   News Corp. Profit
   Increased by 14%
   In Its 2nd Period
   ----
   By Patrick M. Reilly
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Net income rose 14% to $194.3 million, or $1.15 a unit,
from $169.9 million, or 1.04 a unit, a year earlier. The
results include a gain of $81.2 million, or 48 cents a unit,
mainly from the sale of 55% of News Corp.'s Pacific Magazine
 Printing Ltd., its Australian magazine and printing
operations, in an initial public offering.
   Without the gain, News Corp. would have reported operating
profit of $113.1 million, or 67 cents a unit, compared with
$124.4 million, or 83 cents a share, for the same quarter in
1990. Revenue in the quarter declined 11% to $2.04 billion
from $2.29 billion a year earlier, largely because the
company sold a number of businesses in Australia and the
U.S., including nine U.S. consumer magazines.
   News Corp. shares, which are traded in American depositary
receipts in the U.S., closed at $25.50, up $2 in New York
Stock Exchange trading.
   News Corp. said the increase in operating earnings for the
latest six months reflected improved results from the
company's TV and free-standing insert operations in the U.S.,
as well as newspaper operations in the U.K. and Australia,
and lower interest costs.
   Jessica Reif, an analyst with Oppenheimer  Co., said that
for the quarter, the company's newspaper operations in
Australia and the U.K. showed a 16% gain in operating income
and 23% gain in operating margin. She noted that while
overall revenue for the combined Fox TV network and Fox TV
station was down 13.9%, operating income doubled and margins
tripled. She said the key was cost-cutting and less expensive
programming, such as "Studs," "Cops" and "A Current Affair."
   The biggest disappointment came from News Corp.'s
Twentieth Century Film unit, which the company said had a
"poor result," mainly because of the poor performance of two
expensive films, "Dutch" and "For the Boys."
   Analysts noted that while News Corp.'s BSkyB operations
still registered losses, the company said the pay TV
satellite system is showing "very positive" growth in home
dish installations and in subscriptions for pay-movie
channels. News Corp., which owns 50% of the venture, said
BSkyB is expected to break even in March and turn a profit in
its fourth quarter.