Norfolk Southern
   Had Quarterly Loss
   After Big Charge
   ----
   By Daniel Machalaba
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The Norfolk, Va., transportation company said that
excluding the special charge, fourth-quarter net income would
have been $143.1 million, or $1 a share, compared with net of
$117.1 million, or 75 cents a share, a year earlier. The
per-share net loss was $2.37. Revenue declined 2% to $1.10
billion from $1.12 billion.
   Analysts said the results follow a trend among major
railroads, which have posted higher fourth-quarter earnings
despite the recession. Norfolk Southern said a 6% decline in
fourth-quarter rail operating expenses, resulting from
efficiency measures and lower diesel fuel costs, offset lower
revenue in most commodity groups. Coal revenue dropped 6%,
reflecting weak industrial demand for electricity and a
period of mild weather that created big coal stockpiles at
electric utilities.
   In late New York Stock Exchange composite trading
yesterday, Norfolk Southern shares were quoted at $56.50 a
share, up 12.5 cents.
   "They did quite well given that coal revenues were down so
much," said Anthony Hatch, an analyst at PaineWebber Inc. "It
is yet another indication that railroads are able to handle a
downturn and are better prepared to accomplish future
growth."
   Norfolk Southern said the special charge, $680 million
before taxes, includes $450 million for the costs to achieve
reductions in train crews and other labor savings. The
company said 625 train crew members have accepted a voluntary
separation payment, somewhat less than expected; others have
elected to stay with the company on a reserve board that
entitles them to 75% of their salary while they wait to be
called back to work. Norfolk officials declined to specify
the number of surplus crew members.
   Company officials estimated the reductions would result in
pretax savings to Norfolk Southern of about $75 million in
1992 and significantly larger savings in the next few years.
   The charge also includes $187 million to write down
approximately half of what Norfolk Southern paid to buy North
American Van Lines in 1985. The action reflects reduced
profit margins in the highly competitive motor carrier
industry, the company said. But Arnold McKinnon, Norfolk
Southern's chairman and chief executive officer, said the
write-down "doesn't reflect a lack of commitment to the
business on our part."
   Norfolk Southern said it will continue its open-market
share purchase program but at a slower pace. The original
schedule had called for completion of the 45 million share
program by the end of 1992. So far, 28.5 million shares have
been purchased under the program. As of Dec. 31, the company
had 147.8 million shares outstanding. Norfolk Southern said
further purchases will depend on economic conditions, cash
needed to reduce its work force and the need for funds for
alternative investments.