DNA Plant Expects
   Strong Lift This Year
   From Joint Ventures
Mr. Laster said the company's 1992 loss will be about the
same or slighty higher than in 1991. Last year, DNA Plant had
a net loss of $14.9 million, or 75 cents a share, compared
with a net loss of $8.9 million, or 43 cents a share, in
1990. Total revenue in 1991, including revenue from joint
ventures, was $14.5 million, compared with $14.9 million in
1990.
   DNA Plant, one of the world's largest independent
agricultural biotechnology companies, is banking on its joint
ventures to eventually lead it to profitability. DNA Plant
has joint ventures with such companies as Du Pont Co., Union
Carbide Corp. that are the marketing arms for DNA Plant's
biotechnology products. In January, DNA Plant agreed to raise
its stake in the venture with Union Carbide, Agri-Diagnostics
Associates, to 90% from 40%.
   DNA Plant is discussing the possibility of expanding
distribution of its VegiSnax product line, bioengineered
celery and carrot sticks sold like bags of potato chips, in
McDonald's Corp.'s fast-food restaurants to as many as 1,000
outlets from 550 outlets, Mr. Laster said. The company also
hopes to expand distribution in supermarkets, particularly in
the Pacific Northwest. Mr. Laster said DNA Plant expects to
increase revenue from those products to $4 million in 1992
from $1.4 million in 1991.
   Mr. Laster said he expects that sales of the DNA Plant's
low-saturated-fat, no-cholesterol canola oil, used for
cooking and frying, will take off this year, rising to $4
million from $300,000 last year. Two major food companies are
considering use of the oil and may place large orders in the
third quarter, Mr. Laster said.
   DNA Plant also expects sales of products that test for
plant diseases and pesticides to grow this year, Mr. Laster
said.
   In addition, DNA Plant has been testing a tomato that uses
a gene from a fish called the winter flounder that is
expected to help the tomato retain a fresh quality after
being frozen then thawed, Mr. Laster said. Other products DNA
Plant is researching or considering include melons, flowers
and cucumbers, he said.