Big Investors Flee
   Shrinking Yields
   Of Money Funds
   ----
   By Ellen E. Schultz
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Investors pulled $13.1 billion from money-market funds,
sending assets of the 527 taxable funds tracked by
IBC/Donoghue's Money Fund Report down to $496.6 billion.
   Where did they go? Short-term Treasurys, Eurodollars and
commercial paper, says Martha Wittbrodt, editor of the
Ashland, Mass., newsletter. "Rates on all of those were up
slightly last week, giving them an advantage over
money-market funds," she says.
   Most of the outflow was from fleeing institutional
investors. In recent weeks, institutions poured billions into
money funds despite falling yields, because yields were
slightly higher than alternative cash investments.
   Now, however, yields on money-market funds no longer have
an edge. The average seven-day compound taxable yield dropped
to 3.86% from 3.92%, in the week ended Tuesday, Donoghue's
said. The average 30-day compound yield slid to 3.98% from
4.05%. Compound yields assume reinvestment of dividends.
   Meanwhile, the average seven-day simple yield of the
taxable money funds fell to 3.78% from 3.85%, and the average
30-day simple yield eased to 3.90% from 3.97%.
   Investors can find funds with higher-than-average yields.
For example, seven-day compound taxable yields were 4.58% at
Fidelity Spartan Money Market fund; 4.52% on Evergreen Money
Market Trust; and 4.50% on Dreyfus Worldwide Dollar Money
Market, according to Donoghue's.
   Tax-free money-market funds also suffered declines in
assets and yields. Assets of 293 tax-free funds fell by
$117.9 million to $98.8 billion.
   The average seven-day compound yield of tax-free funds
fell to 2.73% from 2.81%. The latest yield is equivalent to
3.79% on a taxable investment for someone in the 28% tax
bracket and to 4.07% for those paying 31% in taxes.
   The average maturity of the investments increased one day
to 58 days in taxable funds. The average maturity of the
tax-exempt funds' investments also increased by one day, to
51 days.
   Investors may be disappointed with the yields, but they
won't do much better in most money-market accounts at banks.
   The average yield on money-market accounts at banks and
thrifts was 3.75% in a survey conducted Tuesday by Bank Rate
Monitor, a North Palm Beach, Fla., newsletter.
   Money-market funds are able to offer slightly higher rates
than banks because they are a managed portfolio of short-term
securities, such as Treasury bills, shortterm bank
certificates of deposit and commercial paper (short-term
corporate IOUs). When yields on short-term securities are
declining, the older, higher-yielding securities in the
funds' portfolios delay the impact on the funds' overall
yields.
   In contrast, rates offered by banks on money-market
accounts are set by the banks based on their need for the
money to make loans, the cost of alternative sources of funds
and competitive factors.
   Banks that aren't trying to attract assets offer truly
measly yields. Money-market accounts are yielding 3.05% at
Chemical Bank in New York and 3.04% at Texas Commerce Bank in
Houston.
   In contrast, First Deposit National Bank in Tilton, N.H.,
is paying 4.93%, and AFBA Industrial Bank in Colorado
Springs, Colo., is paying 4.75%.
   Lest investors complain too much, they might want to take
a look at rates on interest-bearing checking accounts. The
five largest banks in New York are currently paying a rate of
just 2%, according to Bank Rate Monitor.