British Air, KLM End Merger Talks,
   Citing Friction on Size of Their Stakes
   ----
   By Brian Coleman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The courtship was supposed to exemplify how the airline
industry was going global, but now industry officials believe
the chances of creating the world's first truly multinational
carrier have gone into a tailspin.
   As market-oriented, cost-conscious carriers, KLM and
British Airways made logical partners, analysts believed.
Linking their huge international route networks with that of
Northwest Airlines of the U.S., of which KLM owns 20%, would
have created one of the world's largest carriers.
   The collapse of the talks also raises questions about
Northwest's future. Executives at the airline, headquartered
in St. Paul., Minn., were hoping to leapfrog past their U.S.
rivals by forging a union with KLM and British Airways.
   In a statement, John Dasburg, Northwest's president and
chief executive officer, said the ending of the talks "has no
bearing on our fine relationship with KLM." Northwest and KLM
have a marketing and strategic pact, as part of KLM's
investment in Northwest. Mr. Dasburg said that if British
Airways and KLM had reached a pact, Northwest "may have
considered" some involvement in the deal.
   Northwest is currently an also-ran among U.S. domestic
carriers, No. 4 in size behind AMR Corp.'s American Airlines,
United Airlines and Delta Air Lines. Northwest, debt-laden
since its NWA Inc. parent was acquired in 1989, hasn't kept
pace with the asset-shopping sprees of the bigger airlines in
the past couple of years. NWA is a unit of Wings Holdings
Inc.
   The talks' breakdown poses problems for the British and
Dutch carriers as well. British Airways must now find a way
to boost its presence on the European continent and in the
U.S. without the aid of KLM. The Dutch airline, meanwhile,
needs to generate more market clout without the aid of the
mighty U.K. carrier.
   Management of the merged airline was to be split 50-50,
but ownership was to rest in a joint holding company -- and
it was on the ownership structure of that company that the
British and Dutch airlines collided. People familiar with the
talks say KLM initially sought a 40% stake in the holding
company, with 60% for British Airways. But the British
carrier argued that its bigger size -- its market
capitalization is almost 2 1/2 times that of KLM's --
warranted a stake of not less than 80%.
   Mr. van Wijk said the two airlines, which first announced
they were discussing a linkup last October, had agreed on
many commercial and legal issues, including how to overcome
the tangle of regulatory obstacles a multinational carrier
would face. But, he adds, it became impossible to agree on
what value to assign to each company. Analysts also question
whether corporate ego or the Dutch state's 38.2% stake in KLM
played a role in the failure of the talks. But Mr. van Wijk
said no obstacles were presented by the Dutch government.
   British Airways declined to discuss the talks in detail,
issuing only a short statement. "When we are ready to do a
deal it will be at the right price and in the best long-term
interest of the airline, its staff, its customers and its
shareholders," the statement said.
   Rumors that British Airways and KLM were stuck on the
ownership issue were circulating for a week, making the
breakdown in the talks only a small surprise. But it leaves
industry officials wondering about the future of cross-border
airline mergers and acquisitions. This is the third time
British Airways has failed in trying to link up with other
airlines: Three-way talks with KLM and Belgian airline Sabena
collapsed in 1990 and discussions about taking a stake in UAL
Corp.'s United Airlines fell apart in 1987.
   Analysts believe KLM and British Airways will be among the
first to achieve a cross-border merger -- albeit not
together. "There is still quite a large ocean out there and
British Airways and KLM have to consider whether they want to
go on fishing," one London analyst said. "My guess is they
do."
   For KLM, the immediate question is how to increase its
European market share. Although the Dutch carrier ranks 12th
in the world in international passenger traffic -- thanks to
its strong intercontinental route network -- its European
market share is less than 4%.
   "They need to have some form of partnership to access the
European market for their intercontinental routes," said
James Halstead of Hoare Govett Ltd. in London. "It would be
very difficult for them to survive on their own."
   KLM's Mr. van Wijk says the Dutch carrier isn't currently
in talks with other carriers. Nonetheless, he says KLM is
undeterred in its belief that cross-border airline mergers
are both possible and desirable. "We are going to sit back
now and see what these discussions have taught us about
forming a global airline," he adds.
   British Airways, meanwhile, also says it intends to go
forward with its search for an ally. "There are plenty of
other deals around," the airline's statement said. "We are
still receiving approaches at the rate of one per week."
   ---
   Asra Q. Nomani in Chicago contributed to this article.