Corporate Focus:
   Rax Restaurants Struggles Back From Near Collapse
   ---
   Fast-Food Chain Hopes to Break Even
   Or Turn Profit in Fiscal 4th Quarter
   ----
   By Gabriella Stern
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
That is no small feat for a struggling fast-food chain
that was near financial collapse last summer. What little
life the company still has is largely a result of assistance
from Citibank and Banc One, which, as part of a massive
recapitalization and restructuring in June, set tough
financial targets Rax must meet to stay alive.
   Since taking the helm, Mr. Underhill, 39 years old, has
put together a new management team of fast-food professionals
to oversee a turnaround. Among other things, he has launched
a major joint-venture with a submarine sandwich chain, and
initiated the company's first big advertising campaign since
Rax dropped out of sight on television and in print ads in
the late 1980s.
   Mr. Underhill says second-quarter results, scheduled for
release next week, will show a loss slightly narrower than
the year-ago quarter's $5.3 million, or 75 cents a share. For
fiscal 1992, the company expects to post a substantially
narrower loss. Mr. Underhill forecast a loss of $3 million,
or nine cents a share, compared with $10.5 million, or $1.05
a share, last year.
   Rax last posted a profit in the fourth quarter of 1988
after a period of breakneck expansion during which it sold
its trademark roast beef sandwiches in 500 restaurants in 45
states and introduced salad bars to the fast-food world.
Overextended in addition to being undermarketed by the late
1980s, Rax was buffeted by fierce competition, a lingering
recession and prickly internal problems.
   "They tried to grow their way out of a problem with debt,"
says Mr. Underhill. "They were over-leveraged and poorly
marketed."
   The turnaround he's seeking won't be easy. "Once you've
lost customers, it's difficult to regain them," says Michael
G. Mueller, an analyst with Montgomery Securities. Moreover,
as virtually every fast food chain adds new dishes to appeal
to every taste, "it's become harder to differentiate
yourself," he says. For example, Hardees recently introduced
deli sandwiches, while Taco Bell introduced steak burritos
and Wendy's International Inc. has cordon bleu. "They're all
trying to get noticed and everyone's got the same
lower-priced items on the menu."
   Mr. Underhill's plan to revitalize the flagship Rax
restaurants involves consolidating company-owned restaurants
in the Midwest; adding fresh-baked pizza and other new
products to its "endless" salad bar; lowering prices to
compete with competitors' "value" menus (Rax's trademark
roast beef sandwich was reduced to 99 cents from $1.69); and
marketing the restaurants as "healthier" alternatives to the
typical burger-and-fries joint.
   The company has closed 44 unprofitable restaurants in the
past two fiscal years, most of them in Florida and Louisiana.
Rax now plans to increase the number of company-owned stores
to 150 from 126 in a year, reflecting a potential 15% to 20%
annual growth rate. In addition to the company-owned
restaurants, there are 177 Rax franchised restaurants in 15
states.
   After a prolonged marketing void, Rax is starting to
advertise on television this winter in regional markets. Its
slogan: "You forgot about America's favorite sandwich place,
didn't you?" Armed with a $3.5 million ad budget, Rax is
trying to appeal to customers loyal to other fast-food
companies, particularly more successful chains such as Arby's
and Subway. David Benson, who owns a franchise of nine Rax
restaurants in western Pennsylvania, says that in the past
few years "we were mute. We couldn't afford to advertise.
Unlike our competition, we weren't telling anyone who we were
and what we were doing."
   Mr. Underhill came to Rax by way of Alex. Brown  Sons,
where, as a partner and restaurant analyst, he observed Rax's
downward spiral. A boyish-looking, energetic and talkative
executive, he joined Rax as an executive vice president last
spring, succeeding Ira A. Hermann as president in September.
   A decade ago, while studying at the Harvard School of
Business, Mr. Underhill helped launch Warburton's, a
successful chain of 30 bakery-and-sandwich stores in
Pittsburgh, Chicago and Boston.
   When Mr. Underhill succeeded Mr. Hermann, Rax said Mr.
Hermann was quitting to pursue other interests. But a few
months later, the company disclosed it had reached a $400,000
settlement with Mr. Hermann and another former top executive
after an internal investigation found financial
"irregularities' apparently linking the two executives to
kickbacks from suppliers. Mr. Hermann also agreed to return
1.5 million shares of Rax common valued at about $1 million.
Mr. Underhill said Mr. Hermann's former stake is part of a
new executive incentive program.
   In financial terms, the most crucial period for Rax was
last June, when the company underwent a recapitalizion and
restructuring. A group consisting of management and Citicorp
Venture Capital Ltd., a Unit of Citicorp, invested $7 million
in the company in exchange for stock and notes. At the same
time, Rax restructured its loan agreements with Banc One
Corp., Columbus, Ohio, which converted $11 million of its
debt to equity.
   After Mr. Hermann's departure, Mr. Underhill began
assembling a management team of professionals from other
fast-food chains, including William Welter, a former Wendy's
executive, who is executive vice president, marketing;
Michael Fitzpatrick, a former executive at KFC, a PepsiCo
Inc. unit, who is chief operating officer, and Ralph
Peterson, a former Hardees Food Systems Inc. executive, who
is chief financial offier. Hardees is a unit of Imasco Ltd.
   Perhaps the boldest of Mr. Underhill's moves has been a
joint venture with Miami Subs Corp., a publicly traded
Florida chain which sells medium-priced hot and cold
sandwiches in a hybrid fast-food-casual-dining setting. In
November, Rax signed an agreement with Miami Subs to develop
100 restaurants over five years in five midwestern states.
Rax and Miami Subs plan to open 15 restaurants by November,
another 25-30 restaurants in 1993, and about 20 a year after
that for three years.
   Mr. Underhill said the Miami Subs venture is intended to
attract a younger, more affluent crowd than Rax's regular
clientele, which skews older and low-income customers. The
typical Miami Subs customer pays about $6 a meal, while at
Rax the average check is about $3.25. Mr. Underhill says the
average Miami Subs restaurant will generate $900,000 in
revenue each year, compared with Rax restaurants, which bring
in $750,000 a year. The company plans to build Miami Subs
buildings on existing restaurant properties to minimize
construction and remodeling costs.
   ---
            Rax Restaurants Inc. by the Numbers
                                                                                                       


                                                                                                       

                                1991         1990
                                                                                                       

   Sales ($ million)           $76.21       $108.46
   Net Loss ($ million)       ($10.50)      ($19.48)
   Loss Per Share              ($1.05)       ($2.77)
                                                                                                       

   Major Line:
                                                                                                       

   Owns, operates, develops and franchises restaurants
featuring sandwiches and other fast-food entrees and
accompaniments. It has 300 company-owned and franchised
stores in 21 states.