Coca-Cola Says
   It Will Open
   Plant in Moscow
   ----
   By Martha Brannigan
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The $12 million investment is one of the first by a
Western multinational in the new Commonwealth of Independent
States. "What is significant is it's a complete new way for
the {former} Soviet Union to do business," said E. Neville
Isdell, a senior vice president at Coca-Cola. "We have
ownership of the plant, full control of production and
distribution, and even control of the outlets."
   The mayor of Moscow, Gavriil Popov, predicted the project
"will help attract additional international investment by
signaling to others that the city of Moscow is ready to do
business."
   But while the venture may serve as a model for similar
investments in other parts of the former Soviet Union, it was
not seen by Western businessmen as a huge vote of confidence
in the Commonwealth of Independent States. "Definitely, other
companies will look to this venture to see how it prospers,"
said Jeffrey A. Burt, a partner in charge of the Russian
practice for the law firm of Arnold  Porter in Washington,
D.C. "But $12 million is not a lot of money for Coca-Cola,
and it is yet another indication that in the fluid
environment, major multinationals are cautious and limiting
themselves to small sums."
   Up until now, Coca-Cola has produced its product solely at
state-owned bottling plants in Russia. Most of its Russian
operations have been conducted through socalled countertrade,
in which it received payment in the form of credits for Lada
automobiles, which in turn are sold in the United Kingdom.
   Coca-Cola said the new company, called Coca-Cola
Refreshments-Moscow, plans to take payment in rubles, which
it will plow back into expanding its Russian operations. The
new company is owned more than 95% by Coca-Cola, with the
balance held by S.N. Fyodorov, a prominent Russian professor
and entrepreneur. Mr. Fyodorov, among other things, runs a
wellknown microsurgery eye clinic.
   Coca-Cola said as many as 200 people will be employed at
its new syrup plant to be built on a five-acre site in the
city's Solntsevo region and some 4,000 workers employed at
its kiosks. The plant initially will produce Coke and Fanta.
   Under the lease agreement, payments from the company's
lease with the city of Moscow will go to buy medical supplies
for a local children's clinic and to set up scholarships at
the International University of Moscow.
   PepsiCo Inc. called the venture a "catch-up" effort by
Coke. A spokesman said PepsiCo already has hundreds of kiosks
in the city, "including at the airport," but said it doesn't
own its own plants.
   Coca-Cola didn't make its initial entry into the former
Soviet Union until 1985, trailing well behind PepsiCo, whose
exclusive agreement to sell colas in that country expired
that year. Coke opened its first offices in Leningrad and
Moscow in 1990.
   Coke estimates that it has about a 2% share of the market
in the former Soviet Union compared with roughly 4% held by
Pepsi. It says the total market there is about 850 million
cases annually, which is small compared with the U.S. where
more than 7.4 billion cases are sold. But CocaCola adds that
the potential is enormous.