Heard on the Street:
   Asset Allocators May Toss Up to $6 Billion
   At Stock Market if Bond Yields Drop Further
   ----
   By Craig Torres
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Says James Carmack, who tracks 35 asset allocation funds
from his Pasadena, Calif., consulting company: "We're in a
situation where the stock market may be at unsustainably high
levels; but asset allocators may be forced to buy because of
low bond yields and low returns on cash."
   The possibility dismays Mr. Carmack, and many other
investors. After all, price-earnings multiples on hundreds of
stocks are soaring. Dividend yields are shrinking. Earnings
forecasts for many companies are falling.
   Why would allocators be buying? These specialized
investors bring a logic all their own to investment business.
Dashing back and forth between stocks, bonds and cash, they
argue that they can reduce risk and improve an investor's
chances of preserving capital while still getting ample
returns. Guided by rigid economic models, they can pull the
trigger on investment choices with gunfighter speed. Mr.
Carmack says allocators, as a group, performed well in the
first nine months of 1991 with a 26.5% gain, beating their
benchmark by 1.4 percentage points.
   A conversation with these investors turns up answers to a
couple of questions bugging investors now: What exactly does
valuation mean today, and does it make sense to buy stocks at
record highs?
   Given the alternatives, "Yes," says Robert Groden,
managing director at Prime Asset Management, whose $350
million in asset allocation funds have been 100% in stocks
since September 1990. "I read everywhere the stock market is
very rich. But it is also very cheap compared to Treasury
bills."
   Here's his logic: Like all investors, he wants high
returns and low risks. Chasing yields alone, he can put money
in a one-year Treasury bill today and earn around 4%. Or he
can put money in the SP 500 stock index, which yields 2.9%.
   But by giving up just 1.1 percentage points in yield, Mr.
Groden buys the option to capture the stock market's gains
this year. It is a risk he is taking. Isn't he also buying
the option to take a loss in stocks? Yes. Stocks may stumble
in a correction, allocators agree. But they think it is a
good bet that stocks will be higher at the end of the year.
   Stock market sage and consultant Peter L. Bernstein
blithely sums up the outlook: "The most you get in a bond is
the coupon payment. But if business conditions improve at
all," stocks are likely to soar as earnings and dividends
increase. A footnote for bears: Mr. Bernstein, much as he
sees the logic of this argument, finds it "very hard" to buy
stocks at today's lofty valuations.
   Low short-term rates are keeping many fully invested asset
allocators, such as Mr. Groden, stuck in stocks. New
allocator buying in stocks will come when bond yields fall.
Robert Arnott, who oversees $6 billion in asset allocation
funds as president of First Quadrant Corp., says: "We've been
driven {into stocks} by the decline in cash {yields} for the
last six months. But for further rallies in stocks, you have
to see bonds fall further."
   Here is one allocator's logic. Andrew Harmstone oversees
$1.8 billion in asset allocation funds at J.P. Morgan
Investment Management. Mr. Harmstone wants generous yields
and capital gains as do most investors. His model says that,
in the long term, he will earn a total return of about 9.2%
annually in stocks. But to accept the higher risk, he needs
to earn about two percentage points more than bonds deliver.
So, if long-term bond yields fall to about 7.2%, the
acceptable spread would cause him to ease money out of bonds
into stocks. His current mix: 54% stocks, 45% bond
investments. Late yesterday, long-term Treasury bonds were
yielding 7.39%.
   Long-term bond rates have been sliding steadily as the
Federal Reserve reduced short-term interest rates over the
past 18 months. The central bank was careful to keep "real"
short-term interest rates -- the market rate minus inflation
-- positive, thereby keeping a lid on inflation expectations.
But many investors believe bond yields can tumble further.
"We still have favorably weak inflation numbers, solid
declines in manufacturing employment, and another month or
two of hits to industrial production," says Michael Strauss,
chief economist at UBS Securities. He thinks long-term
government bond yields could drop to 7% in the next 45 days.
   Elaine Garzarelli, the Shearson Lehman Brothers
strategist, says tumbling foreign rates and moderating U.S.
inflation should push Treasury bond yields lower. A full
percentage point decline in the 30-year bond would lift stock
prices 10%, she estimates; "my models are unbelievably
bullish right now" for stocks.
   The bond lever isn't likely to pump up stock prices all
year, however. If the economy catches fire, short-term and
long-term interest rates should start rising, causing
allocators, among others, to trim stock positions. Ms.
Garzarelli says a 20% rise in the Treasury bill rate could
cause a 10% to 15% correction in stock prices.
   But if corporate profits start to grow, stocks can move
higher. Michael Schonberg, managing director at UBS Asset
Management, thinks long-term bond yields will be higher a
year from now as inflation expectations rise. He notes, "the
stock market can also go up when interest rates are rising"
-- especially if dividends grow faster than inflation.