Securities Firms,
   Banks Set to Sign
   SEC Settlement
   ----
   By Kevin G. Salwen and John Connor
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
The firms, including almost every bigname house on Wall
Street, are expected to be asked to pay civil fines of as
much as $100,000 each; that would total several million
dollars in penalties paid to the U.S. Treasury. In addition,
without admitting or denying wrongdoing, the companies will
agree to "cease and desist" from future bookkeeping and
records violations in their bidding for the debt of Federal
National Mortgage Association and other such
government-sponsored agencies. The SEC declined to comment.
   The SEC settlement offers, unusual because they involve
about 100 banks and firms, stem from the commission's
investigation into the Salomon Brothers Inc. scandal. After
the Salomon Inc. unit admitted it had illegally bid for
Treasury notes, it disclosed it had hyped customer orders and
falsified records in bidding for debt of quasi-government
agencies.
   Further investigation showed that it was common practice
for members of the dealers groups for these agencies' debt to
hype orders and falsify records. In many cases, the agencies
knew about the wrongdoing, which had become standard industry
practice.
   The question was a thorny one for the SEC, which felt it
needed to clean up the market, but couldn't press the issue
too hard because it was a victimless crime perpetrated by
almost every member of the dealer groups.
   People familiar with the process said all firms will be
asked to sign the settlement pact with the same terms except
for the fine amount. Smaller players that did less business
with the agencies will pay less. About 25% to 40% of all
settling firms will pay the $100,000 maximum.
   SEC Enforcement Director William McLucas headed the
meetings held over the past few weeks in a large conference
room in the enforcement division. About a dozen defense
lawyers attended the sessions, which several lawyers
described as constructive, with the SEC open to resolving
problems firms had in the terms. Because several banks also
are dealers, banking regulators from the Office of
Comptroller of the Currency and the Federal Reserve attended
the sessions.
   Another meeting is expected to be held this week to hash
out the final details, one defense lawyer said.
   Separately, Fannie Mae agreed to revise its new dealer
agreement and extend the deadline for selling-group members
to sign and return new agreements. The deadline is being
extended one week, to Jan. 17. Fannie Mae didn't indicate how
it intends to change the proposed selling agreement it sent
in late December to the 53 banks and securities firms that
constitute its debenture-selling group, but a spokesman said
the spirit of the document would remain the same.
   The decision to alter the proposed agreement and extend
the deadline came after the Agency Task Force of the Public
Securities Association and others registered concerns over
several changes proposed by Fannie Mae.