Heard on the Street:
   If Dial Is an Indication, Conglomerates
   That Shrink May Be Ripe for Price Gains
   ----
   By Laurie P. Cohen
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Some investors believe Dial will lead the way for other
conglomerates whose stock prices haven't yet shared fully in
the stock market's recent surge. Fans argue that these widely
diversified companies, long reviled because of their slow
growth, confusing businesses and ponderous management, now
are among the market's best buys.
   "Conglomerates are the undervalued stocks in this market,"
says Howard Rubel, who follows these companies for C.J.
Lawrence. "The stock market rewards companies that make
themselves more simple and predictable -- and there will be
more pressure on conglomerates to do just that."
   It's easy to understand why many investors have long hated
conglomerates. For the past five years, these companies'
stocks have underperformed the market by six percentage
points annually. At the same time, their earnings growth has
been only half that of the Standard  Poor's 500stock index.
Now, unrescued by 1980s raiders and hurt by recession, many
of these companies are finally being forced to weed out their
weakest business lines.
   "The pace of conglomerate restructurings will accelerate
in 1992 and 1993 due to pressure from both boards of
directors and shareholders," predicts David Moore, a
conglomerate analyst at Donaldson, Lufkin  Jenrette. Such
corporate turnabouts often send stock prices higher as
investors look forward to better financial results and a
bigger Wall Street following for a morefocused company.
   Among the less-than-stellar stocks the Street is watching
for signs of improvement are TRW, United Technologies,
Rockwell International and Penn Central, which is controlled
by investor Carl Lindner. All these companies have announced
some restructuring measures, but analysts and money managers
say some of them will probably do more.
   The company investors deem most disappointing is ITT,
whose stock at 57 1/8 is below where it was last summer.
Unlike other conglomerates, ITT hasn't announced any major
restructuring moves. "Certainly there is something ITT can do
to maximize value," says Nick Kovich, money manager with
Miller Anderson  Sherrard, West Conshohocken, Pa.
   The reaction to Dial's restructuring shows how investors
often value the parts of a diversified company's portfolio
much higher than the whole. What's more, Dial shows how a
conglomerate's weakest operations tend to have a
disproportionate effect on its stock price.
   When its restructuring is completed, Dial will focus
exclusively on its core consumer businesses, which include
the manufacture of Dial soap, Brillo pads and Purex
detergents and bleaches. The company plans to spin off its
financial and insurance businesses. Dial's stock price rose
despite the $180 million the company said it would take in
write-offs and other one-time charges in the fourth quarter.
   John Teets, Dial's chairman, said the plan would "sharpen
investors' perception of Dial" and "help shareholders better
understand what they own."
   Money managers and stock analysts say that even though the
stock has risen sharply, it still has further to go.
"Consumer products companies have much higher valuations"
than diversified companies, says Lehman Brother analyst Phua
Young. Over time, Dial will be regarded by Wall Street "as
more of a pure play," he says. What's more, as with most
conglomerates that restructure, it can take as long as a year
for improved financial results to appear.
   Conglomerate Allied-Signal also has reaped huge rewards in
the stock market because of its proposed restructuring. Its
stock price has soared 57% since the company announced last
summer that former General Electric Vice Chairman Lawrence
Bossidy would be taking the helm. Since then, Mr. Bossidy has
slashed Allied's dividend, capital spending and staff, to the
apparent delight of holders.
   Mr. Bossidy said Allied's restructuring plan won't be
completed until 1993. But the company's stock price indicates
investors are confident he will live up to his word. "A good
chunk of the premium in Allied's stock price is Bossidy," Mr.
Rubel says.
   Not all conglomerates reap such immediate rewards in the
market when they announce plans to restructure. When Los
Angeles-based Teledyne said it would pare its operations, its
stock didn't move.
   But investor excitement was suddenly aroused earlier this
month, when Teledyne surprised the Street with
better-than-expected earnings. The company attributed the
improved earnings to improved operating efficiencies.
   Why did Teledyne's stock price take so long to rise? "Its
businesses are hard to understand," says one money manager.
"No one believed them at first."
   Textron, too, has moved up slowly. Although Textron Chief
Executive James Hardymon told analysts last year of plans to
retreat from defense markets, some said they saw little
evidence of those plans right away. This week, Textron said
it would buy Cessna Aircraft for $600 million from General
Dynamics. In recent months, the company has taken other steps
to reduce its dependence on military sales and to boost
operating profits.
   Some believe the jury is still out on whether
restructurings will benefit conglomerates' share prices.
Tenneco's stock price surged as high as 45 after the company
selected Michael Walsh as its new chairman, and Mr. Walsh
announced plans to sell more than $1 billion in assets and
halve the company's dividend. But after the initial burst of
enthusiasm died, the company's stock price dropped back to 35
3/8, off 1 5/8 in yesterday's down market.
   "I wonder every day I come in why Tenneco went the wrong
way," says Gary Schneider, a Bear Stearns analyst who is
bullish on the company. Mr. Schneider believes if Mr. Walsh
can pull off his plans, Tenneco can be a $60 stock.
   But some Tenneco holders believe they know the answer to
Mr. Schneider's question. "Tenneco is a tougher situation"
than other conglomerates, says Ned Shadek, who runs Putnam
Energy  Natural Resources Fund. "Yes, they've announced
plans to sell, but they haven't sold anything," he says of
the company, whose diverse interests run the gamut from
shipbuilding and natural gas pipelines to auto parts and
packaging. "And some of these assets aren't readily salable.
It's a frustrating stock."