International:
   Kohl Hopes to Break GATT Stalemate
   With `Linkage' Plan for U.S., France
   ----
   By Frederick Kempe
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Chancellor Kohl is in a key position to mediate one of the
most bitter remaining disputes: over European agricultural
trade barriers. The two main antagonists, Francois Mitterrand
of France and Mr. Bush, are personal friends who trust him.
And Mr. Kohl doesn't face the difficult domestic election
campaigns this year that the other two men do.
   The essence of the German idea is something that arms
controllers would have called "linkage." If Washington wants
Europe to reduce its subsidized farm exports, as proposed in
a draft agreement drawn up by GATT Director-General Arthur
Dunkel, then German officials say the U.S. would have to at
least freeze at current levels the export of U.S. "cereal
substitute" livestock fodder to Europe. Through a hole in the
European trade wall, U.S. producers have supplied 19 million
to 20 million tons of cereal-substitute fodder in 1990 and
1991 at prices far below Europe's artificially high prices.
U.S. officials reject such "linkage" as contrary to the
GATT's aim of moving from managed to free trade. And the
French reject the Dunkel plan's suggested 24% reduction in
farm exports.
   "We feel that this tradeoff would be a good transitional
solution that takes us in the right direction," says a senior
German official. Even if an agreement on specific levels
can't be reached, the official said the Germans would seek a
procedural agreement accepting this linkage.
   But even before Chancellor Kohl landed in Washington, U.S.
trade officials and agricultural lobbyists were bad-mouthing
the plan. U.S. Trade Representative Carla Hills said the
linkage idea "is not a feasible alternative for us." A number
of U.S. farm groups warned that they would oppose the pact if
the U.S. made additional concessions to Europeans.
   The chancellor hopes to use his plan to conclude the GATT
talks by the end of April, after French municipal elections
that begin this weekend but well before the World Economic
Summit this July in Munich, which he will lead. With trade
out of the way, Mr. Kohl hopes the seven major industrial
nations at Munich can concentrate on promoting democracy and
market reforms in the former U.S.S.R.
   Bonn officials reject the impression that they are siding
with the U.S. against France on reforming European
agriculture. They say Mr. Kohl wants the U.S. to back off
maximalist demands that the French won't accept, partly
because Bonn shares Paris's concern that moving too fast on
farm reform is political suicide.
   "Farmers are people," says the senior German official. And
voters.
   Only 4% of German voters work in agriculture (vs. 7% in
France and 3% in the U.S.), but the vast majority back
Chancellor Kohl's Christian Democrats. "If the farmers stay
at home on election day, it makes only a 1% or 2% difference
in the outcome, but that can decide elections," says Karl
Lamers, foreign policy spokesman for the Christian Democrats.
   So officials say the chancellor will stress to Mr. Bush
the importance of preserving what has been accomplished, even
if all issues can't be resolved to Washington's satisfaction.
German officials emphasize that the European Community has,
for the first time, made its farm policies subject to the
GATT and is committed to production and price cuts. Robert M.
Kimmitt, U.S. ambassador to Germany, cites Germany's decision
in the fall that agriculture should be part of the overall
GATT agreement as a "very welcome" turning point. He says it
shows "that the Germans thought the community needed to show
flexibility on the farm issue, even as they pressed for U.S.
flexibility on this and other issues."
   Mr. Lamers also insists that Mr. Kohl can't abandon the
French, even if he wants to, because the chancellor must
repay Mr. Mitterrand for his decisive support in bringing a
reluctant Europe to support Bonn's controversial decision to
recognize the breakaway Yugoslav republics of Slovenia and
Croatia.
   "After that, you cannot isolate the French on agriculture.
The Yugoslavia crisis showed how much we needed Europe -- and
the French," Mr. Lamers says. And the French economic and
political crisis is so great that Germany doesn't have as
much room for maneuver with Paris as Mr. Kohl might like, he
adds.
   Yet Mr. Kohl also owes a debt to President Bush, whom he
wants to be reelected, for his support of German unification.
And many U.S. officials were convinced by what happened with
Yugoslavia that Bonn could bring Europe along on issues
Washington cares about.
   The difference this time is that Germany's interests
aren't as clear and the Germans don't want to help make
Europe poorer just to benefit the U.S.
   Still, the Germans rely on exports for more than 25% of
their gross national product, giving them more interest than
the French (16% of GNP) or the Americans (5% of GNP) in
avoiding a trade war. "But we must find transitional methods
to get to the goal that we all want," he says. "No one asked
the Soviets to give up their weapons all at once."