Marketing  Media:
   Anthony O'Reilly
   Considers Bidding
   For Mirror Group
   ----
   By Gabriella Stern
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
A spokesman for Independent Newspapers in Dublin said Mr.
O'Reilly "has consulted his advisers and asked for
information." Based on that, he added, "he'll make a
decision."
   The spokesman said he didn't know what size acquisition
Mr. O'Reilly, as the major holder of Independent Newspapers,
is considering. "Clearly, the greatest uncertainty about the
Mirror Group is the state of . . . liabilities and assets,"
he added.
   Mr. O'Reilly told the Sunday Times of London: "In looking
at this group you need an {astronomical} map so you can plot
where the black holes are."
   Mirror Group has been the subject of a management buy-out
bid headed by Sir Peter Parker, former chairman of British
Rail, according to media reports. However, two large concerns
that had expressed an interest in the company pulled out
following reports that more than #300 million ($539 million)
was missing from the company's pension fund. Further
complicating matters, an administrator of Mr. Maxwell's
private holdings said recently that the family's 51% stake in
Mirror Group was no longer for sale. Mr. Maxwell died at sea
Nov. 5.
   Mirror Group's portfolio includes Britain's second-largest
tabloid, the Daily Mirror; Sunday tabloids, the Sunday Mirror
and the People; a daily horse-racing paper, the Sporting
Life; and Scottish tabloids, the Daily Record and Sunday
Mail.
   Independent Newspapers, which had revenue of 154.9 million
Irish pounds ($256.1 million) in 1990 and pretax profit of
12.5 million Irish pounds, owns Ireland's largest daily, the
broadsheet Irish Independent, and the tabloid Evening Herald.
Both are published in Dublin. It also owns the broadsheet
Sunday Independent and the tabloid Sunday World, a number of
provincial papers in Ireland, some free regional publications
in the U.K., and has a franchise arrangement with the Star
(U.K.) to publish the Irish Star. In addition, Independent
Newspapers owns newspapers in Australia and billboard
companies in France and Australia.
   The spokesman said acquisition of Mirror Group papers
would mark Independent Newspapers' first venture into
national newspapers in the U.K. Independent Newspapers has
been in an acquisitive mode recently, the spokesman said.
Last month, it made an unsuccessful bid to buy Fairfax Group,
a large publishing concern in Australia valued at more than
1.2 billion Australian dollars (US$900.6 million). "Clearly
we have the capacity to mount a bid for a major publishing
house," a person close to the situation said.