Economy:
   Economy to Be on Mend by November
   ---
   But Strength of Pre-Election
   Recovery Is Debated
   ----
   By Alfred L. Malabre Jr.
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Still, the economic consensus over the years has proved
right more often than wrong, and Mr. Bush can only hope that
this is such a moment, for the seers' message is that by
November the economy will be clearly on the rise, with only
mild inflation and unemployment edging down.
   "By the time Americans head for the ballot box, the debate
won't be -- as it is now -- over whether the economy will
recover, but over how robust and lasting the recovery will
ultimately turn out to be," predicts Robert Eggert, an
economic consultant in Sedona, Ariz., who surveys 50 leading
forecasters each month.
   In his latest survey -- his first since President Bush
unveiled his proposals to spur the economy -- the forecasters
expect on average that the gross domestic product, adjusted
for inflation, will rise at an annual rate of 3.1% in the
third quarter and 3.3% in fourth. They also foresee a jobless
rate of 6.9% in the third quarter and 6.8% in the fourth.
   Such a showing wouldn't match the usual performance early
in a recovery, but it still would represent a distinct
improvement over the economy's behavior of late. In the
current quarter, GDP is widely expected to increase less than
1% and unemployment seems stuck at 7.1%.
   "The momentum of the business cycle" is one reason for the
economy to strengthen as the election nears, says Geoffrey
Moore of Columbia University, an authority on the economy's
ups and downs. The economy has kept expanding, albeit at a
snail's pace, since last spring, he says, and "the longer it
continues to rise, the likelier the recovery will spread."
   Since World War II, Mr. Moore recalls, economic upturns
have averaged about four years and never lasted less than
one. Nor, he adds, has a recession resumed after the economy
has risen uninterruptedly for so long as now. A widening
recovery "will also lend strength to economies abroad,
ultimately reinforcing growth both at home and elsewhere," he
says, adding that indicators he compiles of future trends in
10 foreign countries point to "recovery or continuing
expansion" in eight.
   Another plus, most forecasters say, is that 1992 is a
presidential-election year. Eight of 11 such years since
World War II were recession-free and another nearly so; the
recession of 1948-49 didn't start until just after the
election that returned President Truman to office. Only two
of the 11 years were deeply marked by slumps -- the 1960-61
recession and the 1980 recession.
   "It's a good bet that Mr. Bush and his advisers are keenly
aware of this history and will strive to keep the economy
accelerating as November nears," says David Poole, economist
at Van Eck Securities Corp. In presidential-election years
since 1948, he notes, economic activity has risen on average
about 4% and fallen only once -- in 1980.
   The Commerce Department's index of leading indicators,
which tends to foreshadow the economy's general course by
several months, has recently edged down. Even so, most
analysts doubt this slippage signals a new economic decline
since the index often weakens briefly as a recovery takes
hold. They also cite recent gains in sectors that tend to
foreshadow business activity by extra-long leads.
   One is home building, where lower mortgage rates have
brought a pickup in housing starts. Anthony J. Vignola, chief
economist of Kidder, Peabody  Co., notes that "increased
housing activity typically precedes improvement in consumer
attitudes," which remain depressed. Increased home building
also leads to gains in other home-related businesses. "We're
expecting above-average increases this year in such
industries as household appliances and furniture," says
Norman Robertson, chief economist of Mellon Bank. He
estimates that household-appliance production, for example,
will rise 4.5% in 1992, against 2.7% for all manufacturing.
   Recent "accelerating growth in the money supply should
lift the economy in coming months," says Edward S. Hyman,
president of ISI Group Inc. Increases in the money supply --
broadly defined to include most savings deposits -- tend to
precede similar gains in the economy as a whole very roughly
by six months. After a prolonged period of little or no
increase, Mr. Hyman notes that this monetary measure has
recently risen at an annual rate of more than 4%. He's also
encouraged by "the first signs in over a year of an upturn in
borrowing." The volume of bank loans plus commercial paper
borrowing has expanded since mid-January, he notes.
   Inventory restocking should also "contribute meaningfully
to recovery" in coming months, says Robert J. Barbera, chief
economist of Shearson Lehman Brothers Inc. Inventory cutting
in the latest recession, he says, has been more extensive
than in most postwar slumps, and so restocking is likely to
be substantial, particularly with recent signs of "some
pretty strong gains at major retail chains."
   Mr. Barbera, who looks for the economy to expand at a 5%
rate by midyear, also notes that new car sales increased in
January and the climb accelerated in early February. One
reason, he suspects, is that the average age of cars on the
road, at about eight years, is higher than in 40 years.
"Replacement demand will be a growing source of strength," he
says.
   Even with an appreciably stronger economy by election
time, most forecasters doubt that inflation will worsen
significantly. And, they reckon, if inflation doesn't rise
appreciably, neither will interest rates. Mr. Eggert's
consensus expects consumer prices to rise at annual rate of
3.3% in the third quarter, no higher than this quarter's
estimate, and little change is seen for interest rates.
   Inflation, analysts explain, tends to remain dormant or
even abate early in recoveries, when labor, materials and
equipment are ample. In such circumstances, productivity
gains accelerate and serve to reduce costs and boost profits.
   Factors apart from the business cycle should also work to
hold down inflation. Analysts cite the likelihood of large
cutbacks in military outlays, deemed especially inflationary
since they pump huge sums into many pockets but do little to
expand available goods or services.
   Vincent J. Malanga, president of LaSalle Economics Inc.,
looks for oil at "perhaps $13 to $15 per barrel by spring,"
down from more than $18 recently. He predicts that "Saudi
Arabia will do everything in its power to assist Mr. Bush's
re-election effort." A price of $15 a barrel, he adds, "would
be the equivalent of about a $30 billion tax cut."
   Many economists believe the economy will pick up speed
even if a stalement develops between Congress and the Bush
administration over a plan to pep up the economy. Maury
Harris, economist of PaineWebber Inc., says, "The federal
deficit already is so high and the capital markets are so
sensitive" to still-rising budgetary red ink that further
fiscal moves "simply cannot play" a very stimulative role.
   Whoever wins the election may benefit later from the
relatively modest recovery that most forecasters anticipate.
Precisely because the upturn won't be robust, it's likely "to
be more balanced and sustainable," says Charles Reeder, an
economic consultant in Wilmington, Del.