Marketing  Media -- Advertising:
   Macy's Unpaid Bills Could Hurt
   Already Struggling Media Firms
   ----
   By Joanne Lipman
The media figures pale in comparison to the $811 million
Macy owes Prudential Insurance Co. of America, its largest
creditor. But for the media companies, already struggling
through a prolonged advertising recession, the Macy debt
could have serious repercussions. Most media companies are
already suffering from a decline in advertising, and no major
turnaround is in sight.
   Making matters worse, newspapers, TV stations and ad
agencies are still owed money by a host of smaller
advertisers that have filed for bankruptcy-law protection.
The New York Times, for example, is listed as a creditor in
bankruptcy-court filings by electronics retail chains 47th
Street Photo and Newmark  Lewis.
   Overall, there were some 17,315 retail failures just in
1991, a 35% increase over the year before, according to Dun 
Bradstreet. Plenty of those companies mounted big ad pushes,
only to leave newspapers, magazines and ad agencies
empty-handed. "The ripple effect is obviously enormous," says
Reid Gearhart, a Dun  Bradstreet analyst.
   The full extent of Macy's debt to media companies isn't
yet clear, since its filing under Chapter 11 of the U.S.
Bankruptcy Code in New York only includes a partial list of
creditors. But media executives say the filing merely hints
at the damage.
   The Macy filing lists $1.5 million owed to the Los Angeles
Times from Macy unit Bullock's, for example. But a Times
spokeswoman says the actual figure is about $3 million,
including advertising bills unpaid by Macy units I. Magnin
and Bullock's Wilshire as well as Bullock's. Times Mirror,
which owns both the Times and New York's Newsday (which the
filing reports is owed $930,956.40 by Macy's Northeast), says
its total exposure is $5 million in unpaid Macy ads.
   The bankruptcy-court documents also don't list any
television stations as creditors. But in the New York area
alone, the three network affiliates and other local stations
are owed $3 million to $5 million, one TV executive
estimates. Macy hasn't paid its bills to most stations since
October or November, he says, sticking them with the tab for
its pricey holiday advertising blitz.
   Among other creditors, the New York Times is owed $1.4
million and the Washinton Post owed $636,410.81 by Macy's
Northeast, according to bankruptcy-court documents. Tribune's
Sun-Sentinel in Fort Lauderdale, Fla., is due $323,419 by
Macy's South, the filing says.
   The newspapers, TV stations and other media companies owed
money by Macy will be paid back at least in part. But they
have almost no hope of being paid in full, and may recieve
only about half of what they're due, retail experts said
yesterday.
   "It's the cost of doing business, particularly in the
retail arena, which is in such difficult shape. . . . It's
just the era we live in," says Robert Kennedy, president and
chief operating officer of Saatchi  Saatchi Advertising.
While his agency doesn't work with Macy, it is listed as a
$1.2 million creditor in the bankruptcy-court filing of
former client Sterling Optical.
   Emerging relatively unscathed from the whole mess is
Macy's ad agency, Interpublic Group's Lintas. Ad agencies
usually are badly hurt when clients file for bankruptcy
protection. Typically, agencies buy media time and space for
clients before the clients reimburse them; if the client
files for bankruptcy protection, the agency could be out
millions of dollars. But Macy handles all of its own media
buying, and only pays Lintas a fee for creative work.
   Lintas declined to confirm how much it is owed by Macy.
Anthony G. Miller, chairman and chief executive officer of
the New York office, characterizes the sum as "in no way
significant and of no concern to us." Another executive says
the figure is below $500,000.
   As for the glitzy image campaign Lintas created for Macy,
its future is unclear. A Macy spokesman says ads touting
merchandise will continue, but what will happen with the
"Magic of Macy's" image campaign -- unveiled with great
fanfare last spring -- "hasn't been determined." Lintas says
it isn't working on any Macy advertising now.
   Even though Macy already owes millions of dollars for ad
time and space, it probably won't have any trouble buying
even more. The Los Angeles Times spokeswoman said the
newspaper will only accept Macy ads if the retailer pays cash
up front. Other media companies, though, said they will
continue business as usual. After all, Macy has supported
them with its big ad budget over the past few years, at a
time when other advertisers were fleeing.
   NBC's New York affiliate, WNBC, yesterday approved Macy's
request to order ad time in February, says Bill Bolster, the
station's president and general manager. "We've decided we're
going to run the risk," Mr. Bolster says. "Macy's is bigger
than a retail account. It's an institution."
   ---
                 R.H. Macy Media Creditors
                                                                                                       

                                MACY UNIT
                               OWING MONEY       AMOUNT

   Los Angeles Times           Bullock's      $1.51 million
                                                                                                       

   New York Times              Macy's
                                 Northeast    $1.36 million
                                                                                                       

   Newsday                     Macy's
                                 Northeast    $930,956
                                                                                                       

   Washington Post             Macy's
                                 Northeast    $636,411
                                                                                                       

   Sun-Sentinel,               Macy's
    Ft. Lauderdale               South        $323,419
                                                                                                       

   Source: Federal Bankruptcy Court for the Southern District
of New York
   ---
   Visine Narrows Search
                                                                                                       

   Pfizer Inc. narrowed its search for an agency to handle
its Visine eye-drops advertising to four New York finalists:
Ross Roy Group's Calet Hirsch  Spector; Grey Advertising;
Partners  Shevack; and Warwick, Baker, Fiore.
   The New York pharmaceuticals giant pulled its estimated $8
million-to-$10 million account from Saatchi  Saatchi unit
Backer Spielvogel Bates last October over a client conflict
with a new Backer client, Burroughs Wellcome. Eliminated from
the review were Interpublic Group's Lowe  Partners and Young
 Rubicam unit Sudler  Hennessy. Creative presentations are
set for the end of March.
   ---
   Ad Notes. . . .
                                                                                                       

   HALFTIME SCORES: Fox Broadcasting's Super Bowl halftime
"ambush" broadcast reached 13.8% of homes with TV sets, A.C.
Nielsen Co. said. Preliminary results from 25 major markets
had shown a much higher rating, 18.2%, for Fox's special
broadcast of "In Living Color." Fox said it was elated
anyway. CBS's halftime show held 32.8% of TV households
nationally, virtually the same as the preliminary figures
indicated.
                                                                                                       

   SUPER BOWL ENDORSERS: Sports marketing executives say
Sunday's game isn't likely to launch commercial careers for
the Washington Redskins. For high interest from advertisers,
"you need a good game, and this one wasn't," says Nova
Lanktree, director of Burns Sports Celebrity Service.
                                                                                                       

   C-M-E REPORTS DENIED: British holding company Saatchi 
Saatchi denied reports that it discussed selling its
Minneapolis-based unit, Campbell-Mithun-Esty, to Europe's
largest agency, Paris-based Euro RSCG. "We aren't looking to
dispose of businesses anymore," says a Saatchi spokesman,
adding that "a seller in this market wouldn't get a good
price," anyway. "It isn't a reality. It's a rumor," a Euro
RSCG spokeswoman said of the report in the trade magazine
Adweek.
                                                                                                       

   REVIEWS: The Mexican Government Tourism Office said it
would hear bids from ad agencies for its estimated $10
million-to-$15 million account in late spring. The account,
which comes up for review annually, is currently handled by
Saatchi  Saatchi Advertising, New York, a unit of the
British firm. . . . The U.S. Navy, as required by law, is
accepting applications from agencies for its $15 million
account, now at Omnicom Group's BBDO, New York.
                                                                                                       

   ACCOUNTS: Perrier Group of America, U.S. distributor of
Perrier S.A.'s mineral water, consolidated bottled water
accounts Volvic and Arrowhead with Waring  LaRose, New York,
the agency that handles the Perrier flagship. They were
previously with Lord, Dentsu  Partners, a joint venture of
Young  Rubicam and Dentsu, which still handles several
smaller water brands for the company.
                                                                                                       

   CHECKOUT CHANNEL: Turner Broadcasting System plugged in
the Checkout Channel, reaching shoppers in 150 supermarkets
in Philadelphia, Atlanta, Cleveland and Detroit.