Board of Contributors:
   `JFK': Truth and Fiction
   ----
   By Arthur Schlesinger Jr.
But what does "JFK" have to do with truth? After all, the
movie purports to tell the story of the murder of a president
of the United States. What responsibility does a film maker
have to the facts? Is even a virtuoso film maker justified in
raiding history for his own purposes as if he were
Shakespeare ransacking Holinshed's "Chronicles"? Is he
justified in weaving fact, conjecture and fiction into an
indecipherable mass posing as a bold, quasi-authoritative,
historical narrative?
   Let me say that Oliver Stone's premise in "JFK" is far
from unreasonable. It is that in 1963 President Kennedy began
to move toward the liquidation of the Cold War. Kennedy's
American University speech that June called for an end to the
"vicious and dangerous cycle in which suspicion on one side
breeds suspicion on the other, and new weapons beget
counterweapons." He asked Americans to "re-examine our own
attitude -- as individuals and as a nation -- for our
attitude is as essential as theirs." He followed this speech
by the negotiation of a test-ban treaty with the Soviet Union
-- an action he regarded as only a first step.
   In addition (and Oliver Stone could have strengthened his
case by mentioning it) President Kennedy authorized United
Nations Ambassador William Attwood to explore the possible
restoration of relations with Castro's Cuba. "The president
gave him the go-ahead," Robert Kennedy said the next year,
"and he was to go to Havana . . . and see what could be done
{to effect} a normalization of relationship."
   Mr. Stone rests his case primarily on Vietnam. No one can
say what President Kennedy might eventually have done about
Vietnam. But there is strong documentary evidence as to his
long-run purpose. From the beginning to end of his
administration, he steadily opposed repeated military
recommendations that he introduce an American expeditionary
force. Having watched the French army fail in Vietnam in
1951, he had no desire to send the American Army into the
same quagmire. "The last thing he wanted," said Gen. Maxwell
Taylor, "was to put in our ground forces."
   In the hope of enabling the South Vietnamese to save
themselves, President Kennedy did agree to modest increases
in the number of U.S. military advisers assigned to the South
Vietnamese army. But, as Roswell Gilpatric, the deputy
secretary of defense, said later, "Resistance was encountered
from the president at every stage as this total amount of
U.S. personnel deployment increased."
   In July 1962 President Kennedy instructed Robert McNamara,
the secretary of defense, to start planning for the phased
withdrawal of the American advisers. The target date for
complete disengagement was the end of 1965. The military
produced an acceptable plan in May 1963. Mr. Gilpatric later
said, "McNamara indicated to me that this was part of a plan
the president asked him to develop to unwind the whole
thing."
   President Kennedy's doubts about Vietnam were strengthened
by Mike Mansfield, then Senate majority leader, once a
professor of Far Eastern history, later ambassador to Japan.
The president sent Sen. Mansfield to take a look at Vietnam
in 1962 (as Franklin Roosevelt had sent Mr. Mansfield to take
a look at Nationalist China in 1944). Sen. Mansfield
recommended that the Americans pull out. President Kennedy
subsequently told Sen. Mansfield that total withdrawal was
the right course, but he could not do it until after the 1964
election. Otherwise, he feared, the Republicans might beat
him in 1964 over the "loss" of Indochina as they had beaten
the Democrats in 1952 over the "loss" of China.
   But President Kennedy went quietly ahead with the first
phase of withdrawal. In October 1963 he ordered the return of
1,000 advisers. Then came Dallas. President Johnson,
listening to President Kennedy's more hawkish advisers and
believing he was doing what President Kennedy would have
done, issued National Security Action Memorandum 273 calling
for the maintenance of American military programs in Vietnam
"at levels as high" as before -- reversing the Kennedy
withdrawal policy. On March 27, 1964, President Johnson
canceled President Kennedy's phased-withdrawal plan. In early
1965 he ordered in American ground forces.
   So Oliver Stone's film has a defensible premise. But the
conclusion he draws is indefensible. It is that, outraged by
President Kennedy's policy of winding down the Cold War, a
cabal of evil men in high government positions organized a
great conspiracy based on the Joint Chiefs of Staff, the CIA,
the FBI, the military-industrial complex, anti-Castro Cubans,
the mob and Lyndon B. Johnson for the purpose of murdering
the president and covering up the deed. Serious conspiracy
arguments can be made; but the conspiracy theory in "JFK" is
reckless, paranoid, really despicable fantasy, reminiscent of
the wilder accusations of Joe McCarthy.
   How much need we worry about the impact of "JFK"? Mr.
Stone himself has equated history with "Rashomon." "JFK," he
suggests, is merely an exploration of "possible scenarios of
who killed Kennedy and why." Unfortunately his explosive
style defeats the idea of the film as a judicious analysis of
alternative theories.
   Still, the paranoid thriller is a form that carries the
seeds of its own disbelief. Nothing is more ludicrous in
"JFK" than the scene in which Major X explains to Jim
Garrison with the serene lucidity of a madman how the evil
cabal is running and ruining the U.S.
   Critics have expressed concern that young people for whom
the Kennedy assassination is history as remote as the sinking
of the Maine was to my generation will suppose "JFK" to be
the literal truth. Maybe some will. But I would think that
most have seen so much hyped-up speculation, surmise and
invention in docudramas that they take these
pseudo-historical exposures "cum grano salis."
   Still, for a people that prides itself on robust common
sense, Americans have shown from the start an uncommon
susceptibility to conspiracy theory. We've gone through
panics over plots allegedly hatched by the Bavarian
Illuminati, the Masonic Order, the Catholic Church, the slave
power, the abolitionists, the international bankers, the
anarchists, the Elders of Zion, the Comintern. Historian
Richard Hofstadter wrote memorably about "The Paranoid Style
in American Politics."
   Of course, as the saying goes, even paranoids may have
real enemies. The more enduring residue of "JFK" will be the
questions the film raises about the adequacy of the Warren
Commission inquiry. These questions are legitimate. There is
no reason to regard the Warren Commission report as sacred.
We now know that both the CIA and the FBI withheld vital
information from the commission. I think these agencies
withheld the information for reasons of bureaucratic
self-protection; but, whatever the motive, the result was an
inadequate investigation.
   Whether a more adequate investigation would have produced
a different conclusion is a separate question, on which I
remain agnostic. A powerful case can be made against the
theory that the same bullet struck both President Kennedy and
Gov. John Connally. This argues for a second gunman. "JFK"
both makes that case and impairs it, since the viewer can
never tell at any point in the movie where fact ends and
fiction begins.
   I find it difficult to exclude the conspiracy theory -- or
to accept it. Were the bumblers of the Dallas Police
Department in the great conspiracy? the hospital's medical
staff? the Secret Service? How far did the conspiracy extend?
The wider the conspiracy, the more likely in this
publicity-mad age that some survivor on the conspiracy's
fringe would sell his memoirs to People magazine for $10
million. Nothing like this has yet happened.
   Robert Kennedy had his doubts about the Warren Commission.
On Oct. 30, 1966, as we talked till 2:30 a.m. in P.J.
Clarke's saloon in New York, he wondered how long he could
continue to avoid comment on the report. He regarded it as a
poor job but was unwilling to criticize it and thereby reopen
the whole tragic business.
   The next year Oliver Stone's hero Jim Garrison started
making his sensational charges. RFK told me that he thought
Garrison might be on to something. NBC, he said, was sending
Walter Sheridan, a trusted investigator who had worked with
him on the Jimmy Hoffa case, to New Orleans to find out what
Mr. Garrison had. Robert Kennedy said to me some weeks later,
"Sheridan is satisfied that Garrison is a fraud."
   When I told this story to Oliver Stone, he replied rather
sharply that Mr. Sheridan had come to New Orleans with his
mind made up, almost implying that Mr. Sheridan too was part
of the conspiracy. Conspiracy theory makes it dangerously
easy to explain away all objections.
   Mr. Stone is an earnest, appealing man. He fought bravely
for his country in the horror of Vietnam. He has earned the
right to brood and agonize over the reasons he and so many
others were sent to kill and die in that war. He is an
artist, and artists are often hopelessly loyal to their
fantasies -- and their fantasies often hopelessly abuse the
truth. History will survive.
   ---
   Mr. Schlesinger, a professor at the City University of New
York, is the winner of two Pulitzer Prizes, including one for
"A Thousand Days," on President Kennedy.