New OSHA Rules
   On Chemical Plants
   Backed by Industry
   ----
   By Albert R. Karr
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Under the rules, which were announced Friday, companies
that process chemicals will be required to make a systematic
review of what could go wrong and what safeguards must be
used to prevent inadvertent release of hazardous chemicals.
The rules mandate investigations of incidents or "near
misses" involving the release of chemicals. They also require
emergency action plans and compliance audits every three
years. In addition, the rules require improved training of
chemical-plant workers, including employees of contractors
doing plant-site work. Training for the latter group was an
important issue in some of the recent explosions. While
individual oil companies may disagree with certain compliance
requirements, the rules generally "don't conflict with some
new standards that industry has put forth," said William
Taylor, a spokesman for the American Petroleum Institute, the
industry's trade group. The API worked with OSHA on the new
rules, and it considers the technology concepts on which
they're based to be "fundamentally sound," he said.
   Officials of the Oil, Chemical and Atomic Workers union,
who had been critical of the OSHA proposal in the past,
weren't available for comment.
   The rules, which take effect in 90 days, cover companies
that process or handle chemicals, including chemical
producers, makers of fabricated metal products, firms that
handle natural gas liquids, farm-product wholesalers, and
others. The rules require that 25% of companies' chemical
processes must come into compliance with the regulations in
two years, and another 25% each year.
   OSHA estimated that the new rules will cut the risk of
catastrophic fires and explosions by 80%, preventing 264
deaths and 1,534 injuries and illnesses a year, when fully
carried out. Three million workers, including 650,000
contract workers, will be covered, OSHA said.
   It estimated the compliance cost at $889 million a year
for the first five years, and $406 million annually during
the next five years. The costs will be offset by accident
prevention and productivity increases, according to OSHA. It
estimated the potential savings would be $720 million
annually over the first five years and $1.44 billion a year
thereafter.