GM Aims to Break Even During 1992
   By Reducing Losses in North America
   ----
   By Paul Ingrassia and Joseph B. White
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
"We will have a major improvement in our North American
operations, independent of the market," Lloyd E. Reuss, GM's
president, said in an interview at the National Automobile
Dealers Association convention in Dallas. Mr. Reuss added:
"Each quarter in 1991 our North American operations improved
their performance. Going into 1992, we expect that to
continue."
   A major reason, Mr. Reuss explained, is that GM won't be
burdened with the huge cost of retooling factories to build
new models, as it was last year. GM launched a record number
of new cars and trucks in 1991, and this year's launch
schedule is modest by comparison. The new models generally
require lower buyer incentives than their predecessors, thus
boosting profit margins, Mr. Reuss said.
   GM also expects to reap savings from cost-cutting measures
that it expects to announce within a few weeks. Mr. Reuss
wouldn't provide details, but the program is expected to
include generous early-retirement offers to employees who are
as young as 51 years old.
   GM, it's understood, intends to use the early retirements
as a chance to consolidate staffs -- ranging from purchasing
to finance -- that are now scattered among headquarters and
three major vehicle-building groups. Those three groups could
be folded into one -- thus undoing much of GM's 1984
corporate reorganization -- within a year, some GM officials
privately acknowledge.
   Those officials also say that GM has contingency plans for
dismissing salaried employees if the profitability picture
looks bleak at midyear. However, GM has said its retirement
incentives will be generous enough to attract many
volunteers, and thus make dismissals unnecessary.
   GM is expected to announce later this month that it had a
loss of as much as $3 billion for all of 1991, before a
restructuring charge the company has said will be less than
$3 billion. GM posted a loss of about $2 billion in 1990,
after a restructuring charge. The losses already have forced
GM to delay some much-needed new products, and have led to
credit downgrades that have boosted its borrowing costs.
   Mr. Stempel announced on Dec. 18 that the auto maker will
cut a total of 74,000 jobs and close 21 more factories by
1995 as part of a broad restructuring. "We're taking an
approach for the long term to get GM lean," said Mr. Stempel
during a speech at the Chicago Auto Show Friday.
   But Mr. Stempel remains reluctant to elaborate on specific
steps GM will take, and when. He deflected questions about a
proposed consolidation of planning and other support staffs
in North America. However, Mr. Stempel indirectly
acknowledged, in an interview with the Detroit News published
yesterday, that his goal is for GM to break even this year.
   In the meantime, GM plans to issue another $750 million in
preference stock to shore up its sagging balance sheet. And
Mr. Stempel on Friday said efforts to sell some
non-automotive units are continuing. GM has said its railway
locomotive and Allison heavy truck transmission operations
are for sale. Mr. Stempel indicated that the Allison Gas
Turbine division in Indianapolis also is for sale.
   Separately, Mr. Stempel called for an end to the
escalating war of words between the U.S. and Japan over auto
trade.
   "Name calling doesn't get anybody anything," he said
during an interview at a Chicago Auto Show luncheon on
Friday. Mr. Stempel's effort to distance himself from the
harsh anti-Japanese rhetoric of Chrysler Corp. Chairman Lee
A. Iacocca reflects concern at GM that a trade war would do
the company and the U.S. economy more harm than good.
   Mr. Stempel criticized Japanese auto makers for not buying
enough from U.S. suppliers. But he stopped well short of
calling for sanctions against Japanese auto makers. Mr.
Stempel said he plans to meet later this month with his
Japanese counterparts under the auspices of the U.S.-Japan
Business Council, and discuss ways to ease trade tensions.
   So far, "Buy American" campaigns aren't helping Big Three
sales much. Japanese auto makers boosted their share of the
U.S. car market last month. The Japanese companies,
meanwhile, are fighting back and scoring some points.
   At the National Automobile Dealers Association's
convention, Richard D. Recchia, executive vice president of
Mitsubishi Motors Corp.'s U.S. sales arm, used his keynote
address to blast U.S. auto executives for making inflammatory
statements. The remarks, he said, have helped incite
vandalism against several dealers who sell Japanese cars,
adding that a Mitsubishi dealer in Michigan recently had
bullets fired through the windows of his showroom.
   Mr. Recchia, the first executive of a foreign-owned car
maker to deliver the dealer convention's keynote address,
said Detroit's to blame for its problems and denounced calls
for protectionist legislation. The dealers association also
opposes trade restraints, since many of its members sell
Japanese cars.