Marketing  Media -- Advertising:
   `Infomercials' Getting Attention
   From Some Major Advertisers
   ----
   By Joanne Lipman
"It's another tool for advertisers to use besides
30-second commercials," says David Verklin, corporate media
director for ad agency Hal Riney  Partners, which created
the infomercial for Saturn. He expects "10, maybe 15" more
advertisers to experiment with the long format by next year.
   Home Shopping Network, which last fall started an
all-infomercial channel, has even started up a new division
to produce infomercials for Fortune 1000 companies. The
unit's executives are in New York this week, meeting with ad
agencies to try to sell them on the concept of infomercials
for major, brand-name clients.
   "I'm waiting for someone to look at me and say, `These
things are sleazy. I wouldn't put my client into it,'"
concedes Craig Evans, vice president of Home Shopping's
infomercial unit, HSN Entertainment Inc. So far, though, he
says with evident relief, "agencies have moved beyond that."
   Still, infomercials face a long climb to respectability.
The Federal Trade Commission has filed lawsuits involving
about a dozen of them since 1988 and has collected several
million dollars in fines from settlements and judgments.
   A number of cases are pending, including a 1988 action
against a baldness remedy and a recent suit against New
York-based infomercial producer Synchronal Corp. Synchronal
has denied the suit's allegations, which question
infomercials for Omexin baldness cure and Annushka, a
cellulite treatment.
   The dubious reputation of the infomercial industry has
frightened off some major advertisers. Ron Berger, whose ad
agency Messner Vetere Berger Carey Schmetterer created the
Volvo infomercial, says "it was of concern" to Volvo when his
agency first suggested the idea.
   Volvo, though, steered clear of the standard hard-sell
format for infomercials in its test. Instead, it produced "A
Film About Safety," which talked about auto safety in
interviews with crash survivors and psychologists. The 800
phone number provided wasn't to sell Volvos but to request a
packet of safety information. Response was strong in a test
in San Diego, Mr. Berger says.
   Saturn also tried to disassociate itself from standard
infomercials, going so far as to call its format by a
different name, a "documercial." The 27-minute-long program,
titled "Spring at Spring Hill" and narrated in the folksy
tones of agency head Hal Riney, interviewed employees and
townsfolk around Saturn's new plant in Tennessee. Intercut
were scenes of the pastoral local scenery.
   Saturn also scheduled its infomercial during prime time,
rather than allowing it to run during the nether hours of the
night, and handed out a printed schedule to people visiting
its showrooms. It ran the video in showrooms and sent it out
as a direct-mail sales pitch to prospective buyers.
   Major advertisers don't skimp on production, making their
infomercials look considerably more polished than those of
your basic miracle juicer. Executives say a 30-minute
infomercial can cost about double the cost of producing a
slick 30-second ad, or in the mid-six-figure range. According
to HSN's Mr. Evans, prices can run from $50,000 to $1.2
million.
   But while major advertisers may produce much slicker
infomercials than the cheesy-looking efforts that are the
standard so far, it isn't clear whether they will attract any
less negative attention. Riney's Mr. Verklin concedes that
some people have accused the Saturn infomercial of being
deceptive precisely because it's so slick and looks so much
like a real program. It is identified as paid advertising
only at the beginning and at the end.
   The other infomercials made by big advertisers also look
just like real programming, though they, too, are identified
as paid ads. Cuisinarts, for example, is testing two
infomercials, for its food processor and its pressure cooker,
that look just like cooking demonstration shows. The food
processor infomercial stars Martin Yan, a well-known chef who
has had his own cooking program.
   The advertisers say, though, that viewers know the
difference between infomercials and programming. Critics
"underestimate how sophisticated and smart the American
viewer is," Mr. Verklin says. "What bothers viewers {about
traditional infomercials} is the hucksterism and the
in-your-face style."
   ---
   PG Drops Crest Claim
                                                                                                       

   Procter  Gamble Co. agreed to stop running ads that claim
Crest toothpaste protects children's teeth "down to the
root," which were deemed misleading by the Massachusetts
attorney general.
   The controversial ads, first aired on national television
last year, said children get fewer cavities today than in the
1950s because Crest protects teeth down to the root. The
commercials were misleading, Massachusetts Attorney General
Scott Harshbarger said, because toothpaste protects only the
exposed parts of teeth, and few children have receding gum
lines that would expose their teeths' roots. The ads "failed
to disclose that over 90% of children would not receive any
of the claimed root protection benefits," he said.
   PG said, "Our principal debate with the attorney
general's office has focused on what percentage of children
have to be at risk for root cavities before we can advertise
our toothpaste as a preventative treatment."
   PG pulled the ads last June and deleted all references to
root protection in its new ad, which began airing in
November. Without admitting any wrongdoing, the Cincinnati
consumer products giant also agreed to donate $50,000 to an
anti-violence program for Massachusetts children. Both new
and old spots were created by D'Arcy, Masius, Benton 
Bowles, New York.
   ---
   Unilever Reviews Account
                                                                                                       

   Unilever U.S., a unit of Dutch company Unilever S.A., is
closing its in-house media-buying unit and looking to split
as much as an estimated $250 million in television media
buying between two firms.
   At stake are network, cable and syndicated buying for
Unilever units Thomas J. Lipton, Van den Bergh Foods and
Lever Bros. They had been handled by Unilever's in-house
unit, LL Media, which the firm plans to close by April.
Buying for Chesebrough-Pond's and Ragu Foods, currently
handled by New York buying firm Botway Group, may also be
reassigned, said Unilever U.S. media services director Joseph
Campion.
   Mr. Campion said one thing was certain: Botway, a firm it
has used for 13 years, would definitely hold onto at least
50% of the business. Contenders for the other half are
Interpublic Group units Lintas and McCann-Erickson; Omnicom
Group's BBDO and WPP Group's J. Walter Thompson and Ogilvy 
Mather. Mr. Campion said the move is being made to achieve
greater "clout with the networks."
   ---
   Ad Notes. . . .
                                                                                                       

   AMERICAN EXPRESS: Two months after reassigning its
estimated $60 million advertising account in the U.S.,
American Express Co. is quietly entertaining new ad ideas
from two of its global agencies, this time for a
"pan-European" brand campaign, agency executives said. A
spokeswoman for the company's Travel Related Services in the
U.K. said WPP Group's Ogilvy  Mather and Young  Rubicam's
Wunderman Worldwide were asked to develop a new campaign
idea, on which she wouldn't elaborate. She played down the
significance of the new idea, saying, "it may not necessarily
get off the ground."