Taking Stock:
   Big Firms Rely More
   On Options but Fail
   To End Pay Criticism
   ---
   New Compensation Packages
   Give Some Top Officers
   Far More Than Previously
   ---
   How Two Plans Stack Up
   ----
   By Amanda Bennett
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Galvanized by some fat gains from stock options, the
Securities and Exchange Commission and some members of
Congress are attacking the plans. And if, as some observers
expect, the government changes the accounting rules,
companies may eventually find options less attractive than
they are now. No longer would options seem cost-free;
granting them would result in a charge against corporate
income.
   Such a development wouldn't necessarily end the debate,
partly because of arguments about whether such incentives
really benefit the companies and partly because stock-option
plans differ significantly from company to company.
   At International Multifoods Corp. in Minneapolis, Anthony
Luiso loves stock options so much that he even agreed to give
up pay for them. Right after becoming chairman of the
food-services company three years ago, he talked its board
into tripling his option grants in exchange for forgoing $1
million in pay over five years. Since then, the company has
peeled off peripheral operations, and its return on invested
capital and its stock price have risen, though not enough yet
to fully compensate Mr. Luiso for his loss of income.
   Says Mr. Luiso: "Stock options link my interests with
those of the shareholders. How can that be bad?"
   Well, ask an IBM shareholder.
   Under the International Business Machines Corp. formula,
the more the company's stock price declines, the more options
an executive generally gets.
   Since John Akers became chief executive in 1985, IBM's
stock has fallen to about $88 a share from $130. If the stock
merely recovers the ground lost since Mr. Akers took office,
he will rake in more than $6.6 million. But an investor who
bought 100 shares then will only break even. If the stock
recovers just half of its 1985-92 decline, IBM's chairman
will still get a $1.3 million gain, while the investor will
be out $2,100, plus commissions.
   Not surprisingly, stock options tend to be generous. They
are designed, after all, for high-level executives, who are
granted the right to buy the company's stock sometime in the
future at a fixed price, usually the stock's price on the day
the options are granted. Stock options even have some value
when their exercise price is far above the stock's current
market price; the options can be considered a bet on the
stock's resurgence.
   But stock options generate the most attention -- sometimes
outrage -- at the time they are exercised. Though the methods
vary, an executive typically exercises options by buying
stock at the option price, then selling it immediately at the
market price, pocketing the gain.
   This past year, Richard K. Eamer, chief executive of
National Medical Enterprises Inc., exercised options that
gave him a gain of nearly $8.4 million. David Jones, chief
executive of Humana Inc., chalked up a $5 million profit.
This year, Anthony J.F. O'Reilly, chief executive of H.J.
Heinz Co., gained $71.5 million by exercising options. And at
Time Warner Inc., a buy-out of options held by N.J. Nicholas,
the co-chief executive who resigned under pressure last
month, is expected to help lift his total compensation to $24
million to $44.5 million, depending on how generous the
company is in the buy-out.
   Stock options are now the fastest-growing segment of
executive pay. Over the past decade, according to Towers
Perrin, a compensation consulting firm, the face value of the
average stock-option grant -- the number of shares times the
price on the day the option was granted -- to chief
executives has more than doubled, to more than twice annual
pay.
   Stock options have become so popular because they have the
advantage over a huge amount of cash compensation in
permitting the issuing companies to contend that the
executives won't benefit unless ordinary stockholders do.
They also can seem to be without cost, though that notion
overlooks, among other things, the dilution of the
outstanding stock.
   Because options are seen as an incentive to push for
future gains rather than a reward for past achievements,
companies are turning to option grants with a face value of
five, seven or even 10 times a CEO's annual cash
compensation. As an executive gains only on the appreciation
of the stock price, smaller grants won't do, says Robert
Salwen, a consultant at William M. Mercer Inc. "It's not
enough of a carrot to affect performance," he says.
   However, the surge in stock options may be laying the
groundwork for future controversies. A look at International
Multifoods and IBM shows how stock options work -- and why
they please executives but infuriate critics.
   When Mr. Luiso stepped into the top job at International
Multifoods, securities analysts were jokingly calling its
jumble of unrelated businesses "International Multidog." Mr.
Luiso's predecessor had already begun restructuring, however,
and had drawn up plans to sell off unrelated businesses, such
as a Mister Donut franchising unit, an animal-feed business,
flour mills and a maker of soup mixes and spices.
   But the restructuring was going slowly. To demonstrate the
need for greater speed, Mr. Luiso once jogged into a
management meeting and delivered a lecture in a Tshirt and
running shorts.
   In addition, Mr. Luiso recalls, "I went to the board and
said, `I am willing to give up some money in exchange for
some options.' I had the idea in mind that if I put myself in
the same shoes I put either present and future investors, I
could say, `I am in this with you. I've got as much to gain
as you do as a shareholder.'"
   He believed that giving up $1 million in pay over five
years "would be painful. It was real money, really something
on the line -- but also something that I could afford to give
up and still put food on the table." So, the company set his
pay at a level that over five years would amount to $1
million less than that of executives at similar-sized
companies. In the fiscal year ended Feb. 28, 1991, Mr.
Luiso's salary and bonus totaled $698,111 -- about 10% less
than his predecessor's in fiscal 1988.
   Other executives at International Multifoods soon asked to
follow suit. "I figured I'd be working very hard, and I'm in
a position where I have some influence on the organization,"
says Duncan Cocroft, the $344,000-a-year chief financial
officer. About a year after Mr. Luiso's deal, Mr. Cocroft and
three other top executives each agreed to give up $70,000 a
year for five years in exchange for 63,636 options.
   Executives at some other companies are making similar
moves. According to recent proxy disclosures, Robert
Campbell, the new CEO at Sun Co., will take salary increases
in stock options for the next three years. At Avon Products
Inc., CEO James Preston recently said he was both freezing
his salary and cutting his bonus in exchange for stock
options.
   When salary is exchanged for options, setting the stock
price at which the option may be exercised becomes important.
One widely accepted formula swaps the right to buy $3 to $4
in stock for every dollar in cash. But General Mills Inc.
trades the option to buy $8 to $10 in stock for every dollar;
it factors in such considerations as forgone benefits and
pension credits, usually based on cash salary and the risk
involved in any option.
   International Multifoods' Mr. Luiso got $5 of face value
of options for every dollar in cash forfeited. He says an
outside consulting firm worked out that exchange. "I was
worrying about accomplishing our program, not about whether
the options were this price or that price," he says.
   Setting the terms can be controversial even when stock
options are simply granted outright. IBM grants options
according to a formula roughly pegged to annual pay. Nearly
half of all companies that offer options use such a formula,
which every year gives an executive options to buy stock
equal to, say, twice annual pay, says Stephen O'Byrne, a
consultant at Towers Perrin. Thus, if the stock declines, an
executive would get more options.
   In 1985, Mr. Akers received options on 20,436 IBM shares
when the stock price was about $130. When the stock price
rose, to about $144, Mr. Akers got options on fewer shares,
19,202. The stock price has dropped since then, while Mr.
Akers's stock-option grants have risen steadily -- to 73,349
shares in 1988 and 85,391 in 1989. The grant reached 95,562
shares in 1990, when, at the time the option was granted, the
stock price was about $96. The 1991 grant, which will be
reported soon, should taper off a bit partly because Mr.
Akers's pay fell 40% to less than $1.6 million last year,
when IBM posted its first annual loss.
   The spokesman for IBM says its stockoption grants are
intended to "advance our pay-for-performance philosophy. They
provide an incentive to increase performance from wherever
you are to another point." Since the computer industry is at
an "unprecedented level of turbulence, to weather the storm
of that turbulence and come out ahead would, in and of
itself, be a significant accomplishment," he adds.
   Whatever the price-setting formula, critics say it is hard
to defend stock options. "Let it not be said . . . that it is
necessary to provide options to retain and attract people,"
David Norr, an investment adviser, recently testified before
a Senate subcommittee. "Is not being CEO at a major
corporation incentive enough?" And, citing average
big-company CEO pay as calculated by some studies, he adds:
"Isn't cash compensation of $2 million yearly incentive
enough?"
   Even enthusiasts can't prove that options motivate
executives to perform better. "I can't sit here and say if I
didn't have this {stock-option} program, then my
decision-making process would be less good than it is now,"
Mr. Luiso says. Adds Paul Quinn, a group vice president who
also swapped cash pay for International Multifoods stock:
"Would I behave any differently if I didn't have stock
options? I don't think so."
   Nevertheless, International Multifoods officers say
options help them think like shareholders. "Shareholder value
is the lead item on every meeting's agenda," says Robert
Maddocks, vice president of human resources. The result, they
say, is that they think about not only day-to-day business
but also whether each operation uses the company's money
effectively. One decision they made: to sell the company's
agricultural business, freeing up cash for acquisitions. "It
was a commodity business," Mr. Cocroft says. "There was
little we could do to improve the product."
   Some securities analysts applaud the unusual stock-option
arrangement. "You do see management putting themselves in the
chair of the shareholder and making decisions that really
impact the shareholder because {they} own the stock," says
Stephen Carnes at Piper, Jaffrey  Hopwood Inc. in
Minneapolis.
   So far, the International Multifoods executives say they
are just about breaking even on their stock-for-cash swap.
Analysts say the price of the stock, which after a stock
split has risen about 24% from its price in 1989, is being
held back by the sale of the agricultural business and by
sluggishness in the food-services industry.
   But the executives say they expect handsome profits in the
long run. "Do I want a big gain in this stock?" Mr. Luiso
asks. "You betcha. I didn't enter into this to be altruistic.
I hope to get back what I gave several times over."
   Says Mr. Cocroft: "Other than my house, this is where all
my net worth is." When he suggested giving up cash for stock,
he says, "My wife thought I was crazy. I have two daughters
in high school, ready to go to college, and $70,000 isn't
chicken feed to forgo." Today, he says his wife is reconciled
-- sort of. "She trusts me," he says. "But she'd rather have
the money."
   But critics say stock options reward executives not just
for their performance but for a booming stock market. Big
option grants can produce big gains for small rises in stock
prices. Moreover, most option plans reward executives for
success but don't penalize them for failure.
   As many see it, even the highest-placed executive can't
influence the stock price very much. Indeed, Louis Brindisi
Jr., chairman of Strategic Compensation Associates Inc. in
New York, says studies suggest that at least 70% of the
change in a company's stock price depends only on changes in
the overall market. Last year, Ralston Purina Co. executives
were awarded $49.8 million in stock outright -- including
$16.2 million for Chief Executive William P. Stiritz -- when
the company's shares rose above $100. But that stockprice
rise exactly matched the rise in the Dow Jones Industrial
Average.
   Companies could, as International Multifoods did, require
executives to forgo cash for options. Since options are
intended to make corporate executives more like
entrepreneurs, or real owners, some experts go even further:
They suggest that executives actually put up real money for
their options, buying them not in forgone salary but in cash.
That, they say, would put executives' real financial future
at risk, just as an investor's or entrepreneur's is.
   Since one criticism of stock options is that they reward
only for increases in stock prices, and hence often just for
a market rise, some experts suggest tying option grants to
achieving some corporate goals. The options would become
available to executives only when the company, for example,
improved its return on equity.
   Some companies are experimenting with granting stock
options not at the market price but at some higher price.
Thus, the executive would profit only after the stock has
risen substantially. American Telephone  Telegraph Co.
announced just such a plan last week. However, the ATT plan
doesn't introduce any real risk to the executives because the
stock options are layered on top of all other compensation,
including regular stock options.