LEISURE  ARTS -- Critique:
   In Tel Aviv, Wagner Is Still Verboten
   ----
   By Raymond Sokolov
What would you call Nelson Rockefeller's widow if she had
married the last president of East Germany?
   -- Happy Honecker.
   -- And Merry Christmas to you.
                                                                                                       

   Ho, ho, ho. Sure, except that, according to the man who
invented the riddle, almost nobody stepped into his trap
because almost nobody came up with the right answer. Young
people had never heard of Happy Rockefeller, once so
constantly in the columns. A lot of them came up with Mamie.
Well, what the hay, Rockefeller, Eisenhower, what's the
difference?
   Sadder still were the blanks drawn about Erich Honecker.
Once a model of late Stalinist villainy, he is now a refugee
from German justice -- and still in the news. But intelligent
people, readers of serious newspapers, either couldn't come
up with his name or suggested his predecessor, Walter
Ulbricht, or his West German counterpart, Helmut Schmidt.
What the hay, they're all Germans, aren't they? What's the
difference?
   What's the difference? Now that's a serious riddle. The
difference is that Germany, like Japan, whose leaders we also
can't name, is a country we really can't afford to shrug off.
Our enemies in World War II have, to state the obvious,
bounced back. They matter to our continuing happiness much
more than Great Britain and France, whose leaders most of us
probably could name.
   We are clear about the difference between John Major and
Margaret Thatcher or Francois Mitterrand and Charles de
Gaulle for many reasons, but the most important one, I think,
is that their countries are part of our active cultural
heritage. The link with England needs no explanation. With
France, we have a love-hate relationship, but our cultures
are actively intermixed, from nouvelle cuisine to "Les Miz"
to designer clothes. At the crudest level of mass
recognition, symbols like the Eiffel Tower and Napoleon are
unfaded images of universal luster.
   Germany has its unfaded universal images, too. Hitler,
Auschwitz, the Berlin Wall. And they are what Germany means
to most Americans. Two World Wars and the death camps cut us
off from the pre-1914 Germany that loomed large on every
cultivated American's cultural map. Now for almost 90 years
Germany has been a non-country in the basic U.S. curriculum.
Gone are the days when the German language was a standard
offering in high schools, when Goethe was ranked with
Shakespeare, Dante and Homer in the canon of universal
writers. When Thomas Mann fled Hitler and moved to Southern
California, he embodied the still-vibrant prestige of German
high culture in this country. That link is now decisively
broken.
   Except in music. The German tradition is so dominant in
classical music that censorship of Beethoven and Bach, even
in wartime, was an indefensible absurdity. After 1945, living
German composers and performers who had happily sung for
their supper under the Nazis suffered a bit, got picketed in
New York, lost bookings, but even they tended to make
comebacks. The last gasp of the backlash against German music
can be heard mainly in Israel, where the Israel Philharmonic
refuses to play Wagner.
   Wagner was an anti-Semite. And a German nationalist. His
music was taken up by the Nazis and officially interpreted as
a sort of old testament prefiguring the Hitlerian gospel. The
Siegfried of the "Ring" was easily inflated into a symbol of
Aryan supremacy. And Holocaust survivors remember hearing the
strains of Wagner played as an obbligato to their torture. So
it is thoroughly comprehensible that Wagner is, even today, a
hard case for a quasi-official Israeli orchestra.
   Still, at the end of last year, the Philharmonic's players
voted 39 to 12 (with nine abstentions) in favor of
rehabilitating Wagner, and their Israeli-born conductor,
Daniel Barenboim, scheduled a Wagner concert for Dec. 27 in
Tel Aviv. Then, yielding to much protest, the orchestra
canceled the concert, submitted the matter to a vote of its
30,000-some subscribers (effectively burying it) and settled
for a rehearsal, in which Wagner was played to a handpicked
crowd of friends and family.
   Writing in the Los Angeles Times, Martin Bernheimer saw
the continuing Wagner ban as a blow to democracy in Israel
and the equivalent of Nazi suppression of Jewish music as
decadent art. "The Nazis," he wrote, "banned Jewish composers
from German concert halls. The Jews ban Wagner from Israel.
The motives differ. The result, alas, is the same."
   No, the result is not the same. The decision not to
program Wagner by one orchestra out of respect for the
understandably strong feelings of outrage in its subscriber
group is hardly the same as the official Nazi government's
iron-fisted program of musical censorship in all areas of
German life, from schools to concert halls. As Mr. Bernheimer
himself points out, the music of Wagner is heard regularly in
Israel, and is commonly available through recordings.
Wagner's descendant Gottfried Wagner lectured on the "Ring"
and other musical subjects at the University of Tel Aviv in
1990. Israel has no official program of censorship against
Wagner or German music. What some Israelis do have is an
antipathy to art, even great art, that reminds them too
vividly of the murder of their families.
   If a significant number of such people are subscribers to
the Israel Philharmonic, as seems likely, they ought to be
able to influence the orchestra in this extraordinary case.
That would be democracy. What Mr. Bernheimer seems to
advocate is not democracy, but elitist programming that
ignores the deepest feelings of a large number of the
orchestra's regular supporters. No orchestra that depends on
the good will and money of its audience can afford such a
policy. And the Israel Philharmonic has better reasons than
most for its Philistinism.