MANAGING
   ----
   By Gilbert Fuchsberg
THE COUNTRY'S top quality contest wants higher-quality
proof that your quality-improvement program is hot stuff.
   This year, candidates for the Malcolm Baldrige National
Quality Award must not only spell out the extent of their
quality efforts but also demonstrate better that they work.
This matters to contestants as well as thousands of other
companies and nonprofit groups that look to the annual
Commerce Department award for guidance on quality trends.
   For the first time, competition rules this year stress the
"pivotal role" of results as "a focus and purpose" for all
quality activities. According to the department's expanded
explanation, companies still must show that their quality
programs help to cut customer complaints and increase market
share. But they must also detail the programs' effects in
areas such as reducing waste, speeding products to market,
improving employee satisfaction and contributing to "national
and community well-being."
   The latest criteria also give greater weight to gathering
and processing data behind such results. "A lot of companies
simply don't gather the right information" and don't use the
information they have well, says Curt Reimann, the award's
director. "No excellent quality system will go very far
without maturity in those areas."
   Now entering its fifth year, the Baldrige contest has
drawn criticism for overemphasizing the quality process over
results. Yet applicants still won't be judged on profits and
revenues, which some critics see as crucial evidence for
evaluating quality-improvement claims.
   According to the guidelines, the exclusion continues
partly because other factors besides quality -- such as
accounting practices, investments and the economy -- can
influence financial performance. Also, some companies
wouldn't enter the contest "if required to provide more
detailed financial information," the guidelines say.
   Money still matters, however. Manufacturers and service
companies must pay $4,000 each to enter this year's
competition, up from $3,000 last year. A small business's fee
has risen to $1,200 from $1,000. As many as 200 companies are
expected to compete for the 1992 prize, with preliminary
applications due March 6. As many as six businesses a year
can win.
                                                                                                       

   3M Tries to Scotch
   `Inpatriate' Problems
                                                                                                       

   GOING GLOBAL these days means preparing managers to work
in all sorts of exotic locales: Jakarta, Nairobi, St. Paul.
   St. Paul?
   Minnesota Mining  Manufacturing brings dozens of
foreigners every year from overseas units for stints at its
St. Paul, Minn., headquarters. These "inpatriates" receive as
many financial benefits here as 3M's U.S. workers do when
they go abroad, the company says.
   Then there are the little extras that 3M foreigners get on
moving to St. Paul: area maps and visitor guides; a list of
local stores selling ethnic foods and ingredients; a 911
phone sticker; post cards of 3M headquarters; plus a flier
for the Jack  Jill Sitter Service, serving children and the
elderly.
   To cope with those quaint Minnesota cold snaps, the
company provides a "Figure Your Own Wind Chill" chart and a
pamphlet full of advice such as "avoid overexertion," "keep
warm without fuel" and "make it easy to be found." Its title:
"Winter Survival in Your Car."
                                                                                                       

   Change Is Slow in Views
   On Two-Career Couples
                                                                                                       

   DON'T EXPECT the sexes to have a meeting of the minds
anytime soon on sharing responsibilities in two-career
couples.
   The next generation of managers still has a gender gap
when it comes to views of dual-income relationships, suggests
a survey of 134 current first-year M.B.A. students at the
University of Pennsylvania's Wharton School.
   Compared with their female classmates, men gave a lower
priority to spending "quality time" with their spouses,
sharing housework and child care and minimizing excess travel
on the job. Men also agreed more strongly than women that one
partner should take a leave to care for young children and
that one spouse's career should take higher priority than the
other's.
   "This tells us that change is slow when it comes to
long-held values and beliefs," says Stewart Friedman, a
management professor who led the survey as well as classes
discussing the results. "What we're trying to do is educate
students to be more flexible and listen to different voices."
   Keep listening. Both men and women ranked having a
long-term relationship, "making a difference" and parenting
above material wealth. And they said enjoying work and
helping others are more important than power, prestige or
earning "a great deal of money." But when asked about their
career aspirations for 10 years from now, 75% said they
expect to be running businesses -- and the group's projected
average annual salary: $200,000.
                                                                                                       

   Odds and Ends
                                                                                                       

   AT THE TOP: One of 10 corporate boards now has a separate
ethics committee, says a Conference Board survey of 264 North
American and European companies. . . . Stifling: Eighty-six
percent of 120 women executives polled by Exec-U-Net, a
Weston, Conn., networking group, said they once had a boss
who was a "significant helper." But 91% said they had one who
hurt their careers. At worst, these "hindering" bosses --
mostly men -- were described as "psychotic, abusive,
exploitative, hostile, sexist, racist and imbalanced."