The Southern Scene
   ---
   Labor Letter:
   A Special News Report on People
   And Their Jobs in Offices,
   Fields and Factories
   ----
   By Martha Brannigan
Over a third of college freshmen take remedial reading,
writing or math, according to the Southern Regional Education
Board. "Plants that modernize have to go back and teach basic
math," says Southern Technology Council Director Stuart
Rosenfeld, adding: "People don't understand fractions, let
alone statistical process control."
   Low skills are "our Achilles' heel," says George Autry,
head of MDC Inc., a Chapel Hill, N.C., think-tank.
                                                                                                       

   TRAINING PROGRAMS offer a glimmer of hope.
   Phoenix Specialty Manufacturing Co., in Bamburg, S.C.,
sees "far fewer errors" and greater productivity since an
on-site schooling program began in 1988. With employees
taking high-school equivalency classes during work hours and
inspecting their own work, Phoenix was able to pare its work
force to 130 from 170 without cutting production.
   Dropout rates in Richmond County, N.C., fell to 13% in
1991 from 28% in 1986, under a pilot program that coordinates
high-school and community-college technical studies. The
program puts tougher math, science and other demands on
high-school students. "Kids are focused on something they
want to do," says Joseph Grimsley, president of Richmond
Community College.
                                                                                                       

   HEAVY FOREIGN INVESTMENT aids job growth, helping buffer
the recession.
   Foreign firms continue to flock to the South, where states
tout their nonunion labor force, good climate and strong work
ethic. In South Carolina, 8% of jobs stem from foreign
ownership. Spartanburg, S.C., snared another potential 200
jobs in January, when Germany's Helvetion International
agreed to move its U.S. headquarters there from New York.
   Florida says foreign investment accounts for 96,869 jobs,
up from 74,922 in mid-1989, despite a 1.2% decline in total
jobs last year. There are fewer local objections to foreign
ownership in the South than in some other areas.
   In Georgia, Florida, Mississippi and Louisiana, though,
only between 13 and 18 jobs per 1,000 are export-related,
compared with 23 per 1,000 nationally.
                                                                                                       

   JOBLESS PAY plays a lesser role in the South. Eleven
Southern states had an average insured-unemployment rate of
2.5% in last year's second quarter, compared with 3.1%
nationwide. They paid average weekly compensation of $140,
compared with $170, according to a compilation by consultant
Laurdan Associates; 28% of Southern claimants exhausted
regular benefits, compared with 33% nationwide.
                                                                                                       

   DEPARTING PROFS: Florida's fiscally strained state
universities suffer an exodus of professors due to low pay,
cuts in travel and materials and lagging support for
research. "Everyone is concerned we're going to lose the
momentum built up in competing for research money and
attracting good educators," says James Parry, a system
official.

   ATLANTA COUNTS on the 1996 Summer Olympics to spur
construction, security, hotel, restaurant and retail jobs.
Some 84,000 will be generated, says Jeffrey Humphreys, a
University of Georgia economist. But Donald Ratajczak, a
Georgia State University economist, sees no "long-term job
opportunity."
                                                                                                       

   MIAMI'S PROFESSIONALS take their skills to Latin America.
Lawyers, bankers, architects, engineers and interior
designers add clients in Latin America. Business from down
south "just lands at our doorstep," says Luis Ajamil, an
architectural engineer.
                                                                                                       

   UNIONS FIGHT an uphill organizing battle in the South.
   The Southeast is "by far still the least organized"
region, says Richard Ray, the Georgia AFL-CIO
secretary-treasurer. Right-to-work laws remain a major
hurdle. Unions face an "ingrained belief in the South that
unions are inherently evil," a Ladies Garment Workers
official says.
   But organizers see heightened interest in unions. The Auto
Workers won an election to represent 3,000 workers at Murray
Ohio Manufacturing Co. in Tennessee. Employees newly
organized by the Ladies Garment Workers at two units of S.
Lichtenberg  Co. in Georgia, a drapery and curtain maker,
won a tentative contract in October.
   The AFL-CIO's industrial union department won 27 of 48
drives in the Southeast in 1991; it was especially successful
in low-pay "sweatshops."
                                                                                                       

   THE CHECKOFF: A ban on voice mail by Chairman Edward
Crutchfield of First Union Corp., a Charlotte, N.C., bank
concern, spawns customer suggestions that he be named Man of
the Year or run for president. . . . Florida lawmakers debate
a bill to bar employers from firing or penalizing off-the-job
smokers. . . . Atlanta's Emory University markets a
recession-oriented MBA program; its part-time, evening
schedule "minimizes risk" of stepping off the career ladder.
   ---
   Corrections  Amplifications
                                                                                                       

   WORKERS at units of S. Lichtenberg  Co. in Georgia were
organized by the Amalgamated Clothing and Textile Workers
Union. Yesterday's edition misidentified the union.
   (WSJ Feb. 18, 1992)