Economy:
   January Sales
   Of Retail Goods
   Were Up 0.6%
   ---
   Revised Year-End Figures
   Show Spending Growing
   Modestly Since October
   ----
   By Lucinda Harper
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Analysts said it is still too early to talk about a
sustained recovery in consumer demand, but they were
encouraged that, considering the revisions, spending has
moved modestly upward since October. The January increase was
the largest sales gain since last May.
   "These new figures suggest that consumer spending has
stabilized," said Norman Robertson, chief economist at Mellon
Bank in Pittsburgh. "But to generate a sustained recovery in
retail sales, we have to have a significant recovery in the
labor market, which hasn't materialized yet."
   Such a recovery could be on the horizon. Initial claims
for jobless benefits fell a seasonally adjusted 13,000 in the
week ended Feb. 1, the Labor Department said. That was better
than expected, although economists said it was too early to
tell whether the decline will be sustained.
   In January, Americans on average worked shorter weeks and
made less per hour, indicating consumer spending may remain a
bit sluggish. Moreover, Federal Reserve Board Governor Susan
Phillips said continuing low consumer confidence has the
central bank so baffled that one of its seven governors has
suggested bringing in psychologists to advise it on how to
improve the nation's economic mood.
   Speaking to a group of bankers here yesterday, Ms.
Phillips said she believes improvements in the economy won't
be long in coming, though. "While growth may remain sluggish
in the near term, the groundwork is being laid" for a healthy
economy, she suggested.
   The sales figures by themselves aren't likely to affect
any decision by the Fed about whether to ease interest rates
again. The Fed has said it will wait to review a variety of
other January economic indicators -- including figures on
industrial production, capacity utilization and producer
prices, all of which are due out today -- before deciding
whether to ease monetary policy further to help stimulate the
economy.
   The chief areas of sales strength in January were building
materials and department stores, whose sales increased 5.4%
and 2.1%, respectively. Auto, restaurant, grocery store and
gas station sales also picked up during the month. Furniture,
drugstore and specialty apparel store sales declined.
   January's retail sales were a strong 3.9% above their
level of a year earlier, and restaurant sales were up nearly
9%. That's not a surprising gain, considering that as the
country became involved in the Persian Gulf War a year ago,
Americans were glued to their television sets and consumer
spending fell sharply.
   Some retailers were encouraged by the numbers and by their
own sales volume in January but were hesitant to declare the
recession over.
   Furniture merchant Ikea, whose headquarters are in Sweden,
said its business picked up considerably during
post-Christmas sales in January. It also said traffic
"steadily progressed" in November and December. "But we don't
see any sign that the economy is getting better," said Ikea
spokeswoman Pam Diaconis. "We can't say things are really
changing."
   Timothy Finley, chairman of Jos. A. Bank Clothiers, based
in Hampstead, Md., said, "Nothing has happened to make me
think the economy has turned the corner." Sales at the
clothing chain have "been all over the place," with no
consistent pattern of growth, he said.
   Clark Johnson, chairman of Pier 1 Imports Inc., Fort
Worth, Texas, is more optimistic. Pier 1, he said, has had an
"appreciable increase" in sales in New England, a region
where the home furnishings retailer has been under
considerable pressure the past two years. A year and a half
ago, Pier 1 put some expansion plans on hold because the
Mideast crisis touched off by Iraq's occupation of Kuwait had
put a big damper on business. Now, Mr. Johnson said, Pier 1
may boost its employment by 4% in the next few months because
of increased business.
   "There is a better tone in the retail market," Mr. Johnson
said.