Commodities:
   Oil Prices Rally as Nigeria Says It May Join
   Other OPEC Members in Reducing Production
   ----
   By James Tanner
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
On the New York Mercantile Exchange, crude for February
delivery rebounded from Tuesday's losses to settle 38 cents
higher at $18.85 a barrel. March crude was up 39 cents to $19
a barrel.
   Still, oil markets were whipsawed, particularly in Europe,
where prices were headed lower in early trading. Analysts
said the catalyst for the rally apparently was the report
quoting Mr. Aminu, renamed Nigerian oil minister last week
after a recent cabinet shake-up.
   In the interview with Dow Jones International Petroleum
Report, Mr. Aminu didn't say how much production may be
reduced. "We are working on that," he said. But he said it
would be "quite reasonable." Nigeria is currently producing
nearly 1.9 million barrels a day.
   Any reduction by Nigeria would follow cuts taken by
Venezuela, which has reduced its output a token 50,000
barrels a day, and by Libya, which announced plans to trim
output some 30,000 barrels a day. Also, analysts suggested a
move by Nigeria could add momentum to the effort by some oil
ministers toward OPEC-wide cuts to prop up oil prices.
   Mr. Aminu said he had "talked to other OPEC ministers" on
the subject and that they are studying actions which may be
taken. The ministers are scheduled to meet Feb. 12 in Geneva
to review oil markets and production levels. Also, Celestino
Armas, the Venezuelan minister, said yesterday that he
believes OPEC members will be able to reach a consensus to
reduce production and stabilize prices.
   What action may be taken by Saudi Arabia, OPEC's leading
producer, remains the major question. But Bahman Kabassioun,
a Vienna-based consultant on OPEC affairs, expects the Saudis
to agree to production cuts so long as they are
across-the-board and don't take effect until the second
quarter, when oil demand slackens seasonally. "In general,
OPEC has no option but to cut back," he said.
   In other commodity markets yesterday:
                                                                                                       

   GRAINS AND SOYBEANS: The outlook for tight crop supplies
this year continued to fuel a rally in wheat futures prices.
Prices of soybean and corn futures contracts also climbed
yesterday amid signs of heavy buying by commodity fund
managers. Crop prices faltered at the open of trading at the
Chicago Board of Trade amid rumors that the former Soviet
republics might not begin repaying grain-buying loans that
are guaranteed by the U.S. government. The former Soviet
republics are slated to begin repaying the loans tomorrow.
Traders shrugged off the rumors by late in the session, when
prices soared amid speculation that a large amount of grain
is being prepared for export from Gulf of Mexico ports. In
trading at the Kansas City Board of Trade, the hard red
winter wheat contract for March delivery rose 4.75 cents a
bushel to settle at $4.1375 a bushel. The Chicago Board of
Trade announced that trading in its wheat futures options hit
a daily record of 10,259 contracts on Monday.
                                                                                                       

   PRECIOUS METALS: Futures prices ended mixed. Silver for
January delivery finished 6.1 cents an ounce higher at
$4.137; the actively traded March contract rose 6 cents to
$4.16. After rising earlier in the day, the actively traded
February gold contract finished 50 cents an ounce lower at
$354.70. Analysts attributed the strength in silver to
buying, particularly by overseas investors, based on
technical factors. Ian MacDonald, vice president of precious
metals at Credit Suisse, said traders had been very
pessimistic about gold and silver's outlook last week and
strongly believed prices were headed lower. But when that
didn't happen, he said, traders bought contracts to offset
their short positions, or bets the price will fall. There has
also been some buying based on a strategy of betting silver
prices will rise and gold prices will fall, an analyst said.
Playing that gold-silver spread is based on the belief that
an economic recovery will benefit silver more, he said.
Silver is used heavily in industries such as photography and
electronics.
                                                                                                       

   COPPER: Futures prices rallied. Copper for January
delivery rose 1.3 cents a pound to 95.40 cents, while the
actively traded March contract advanced 1.15 cents a pound to
95.85 cents. John Gross, a West Nyack, N.Y., metals
consultant, attributed the move to a "technical correction"
after the sharp decline of recent weeks. Mike Frawley, metals
trader at Dean Witter in New York, said prices are being
bolstered by short covering and buying by domestic and Asian
copper users. Traders cover their short positions by buying
offsetting contracts. Mr. Gross said inventories are still
quite low in the U.S. and any pickup in demand will quickly
show itself in new orders to suppliers. People don't
necessarily expect such a pickup soon, he said, but added,
"If we continue to view the stock market as a leading
indicator {of the economy}, one has to be optimistic."