This Cease-Fire
   In Yugoslavia
   Has a Better Shot
   ----
   By Mark Helprin
The Serbs feel beleaguered, which may explain their aim to
extend their control to wherever Serbs are even 10% of the
population. Though the Croats share the same super defensive
tendency, and each party has memories of being massacred by
the other, this conduct is outrageous nonetheless. Both are
driven by their own extremists to revert at all costs to
prior hostilities despite notable success at integration.
   For example, the media under Yugoslav President Slobodan
Milosevic, a Serb, refer not to Croatia or Croats but only to
the fascist Croatian Party Ustase, which took 9% of the vote
last year. In his direction of the dominant political party,
the secret police and the military, Mr. Milosevic has spawned
the war by mating the corpse of the communist apparatus with
the country's deathless ethnic divisions.
   The question "Will the current ceasefire hold?" leads not
to the United Nations but, in a roundabout way, to Russia and
Germany. Acceptance of previous ceasefires was merely a way
to mollify the European Community, which has the economic
power to shut down the war. At the same time, the Croats
hoped to consolidate their failing defense and the Serbs to
extend their very unimpressive gains. Now, however, both
sides have compelling reasons to stop the combat.
   The Croats have lost a good deal of territory and stand to
lose more. They need to shore up their defenses, and with
German recognition they may be able to obtain the heavy
weapons they lack and to rebuild their economy. After
terrible destruction, they cannot afford more. Whereas they
have every reason to resume the war once conditions have
changed, they have every reason to stop it now.
   Conversely, the Serbs cannot ignore German recognition.
Although one faction wants to make gains before Croatia
benefits, another is wary of the punitive power of the EC,
the source of more than 50% of Yugoslavia's trade and (now
that the former Soviet Union is prostrate) the light of its
economic future.
   American officials are justifiably disturbed by Germany's
new assertiveness in the European balance of power. No one
with even a shade of historical memory can view German
resurgence without trepidation. What if, eventually, Germany
extends its protection to the Ukraine, which, in its rivalry
with Russia, will need a strong ally? How might Russia react?
One cannot but note that Germany has on several occasions
visited both Croatia and the Ukraine.
   Nonetheless, in isolation, the German move is correct if
late. But more important than recognition of Croatia and
Slovenia is the war weariness of the Serbs, which leads,
indirectly, to Russia. That the Serbs have a high desertion
rate, that only 17% of those called responded to a recent
draft, that the mothers of Obrenovac took over their town and
forced the army to rescind a prolongation of service, is a
strong indication that the former communists in the army
seriously lack support.
   This is confirmed by the course of the war itself. To
fight the Soviets, Tito adopted a strategy of "Total National
Defense" in which heavy armor would meet a Soviet invasion on
the plain near the Hungarian border while the rest of the
country mobilized for guerrilla war in the mountains. The
battering ram, with modern jet fighters, tanks, missiles,
etc. would stun the Soviets, but once the Soviets entered the
country they would forever be harassed by a mist of
omnipresent defenders armed in what turned out to be the
Afghanistan style.
   The Serbs inherited the battering ram and the Croats the
mist. Although in Tito's defensive strategy the Soviets were
presumed to suffer unbearably until they withdrew, they were
expected to have mobility from border to border. Why then,
with superhighways, complete control of the air, partisans in
Croatian territory, command of the Adriatic, and the heavy
military apparatus fully in their hands, did the Serbs take
months to capture Vukovar, 50 miles from their lines? Why did
they bother to attack Dubrovnik, which although militarily
inconsequential, was a form of public relations suicide? Why,
after half a year, do the Serbs not have mobility from border
to border?
   The answer is the same one that explains the immense
destruction inflicted on the Croats. Every target had to be
reduced almost to dust before the infantry went in. It was
done from afar, with heavy weapons, because the soldiers were
not sufficiently motivated to sacrifice their lives in moving
forward. This is the great force that has pushed Serbia's
government in the direction of peace.
   Though the current cease-fire is more likely to hold than
not, it may be broken by some extremist action that appeals
to those raw ethnic loyalties that never die, or by factional
triumphs that might lead to heroic decisions without
reference to cost. Certainly the dynamic of the truce is
imperfect, in that respite will allow the Croats time to
organize a riposte, the mere consideration of which may
restore to the Serbs their historical willingness to take to
the field almost to the last man.
   ---
   Mr. Helprin, a novelist, is a contributing editor of the
Journal.