Politics  Policy
   ---
   Campaign '92 -- A View From Those Inside:
   Long Hours, Low Pay, Sometimes a Rich Reward
   Is the Diet That Drives Young Campaign Worker
   ----
   By Jeffrey H. Birnbaum
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
MANCHESTER, N.H. -- Four months ago, 25-year-old Peter
Ladd stuffed envelopes by night and went door-to-door by day
to get people to a town hall meeting in nearby Salem for
Democratic presidential candidate Paul Tsongas. After all the
effort, only a few dozen people came.
   Recently, he tried to drum up another crowd for Mr.
Tsongas, this time at the University of New Hampshire. A
previous appearance there had drawn fewer than 50 people. The
turnout this time was more than 500.
   "It's unbelievable]" Mr. Ladd says with a satisfied smile.
"All of sudden everything is clicking. We're moving at a pace
no one ever anticipated."
   For Mr. Ladd, the archetypal young campaign activist, it
has been a wild roller-coaster ride from obscurity to the
verge of success. For months he felt like Don Quixote,
working seven-day weeks and 16-hour days, sometimes sleeping
on an office floor and usually subsisting on spaghetti. Now,
it is finally the day of the New Hampshire primary, and with
Mr. Tsongas leading in the polls, Mr. Ladd's impossible dream
is tantalizingly close to fulfillment.
   For all the attention given to high-powered strategists
and glitzy media, politics in this snowy state is practiced
on the "retail" level: person-to-person, one vote at a time.
That is what makes grass-roots activists like Mr. Ladd
indispensible. They provide the enthusiasm and the elbow
grease that make campaigns go, manning the phone banks,
compiling the mailing lists, knocking on doors, distributing
leaflets on frigid street corners, even hanging the bunting
at speech sites.
   The crew that Mr. Ladd himself leads for Mr. Tsongas is
more fanatical than most, and for good reason. Until barely
two weeks ago, no one gave their candidate a chance. "They
are believers with no `off' switch," Mr. Tsongas says
proudly. "There isn't one of them who signed on because they
thought I was going to win."
   Senior aides to the Massachusetts Democrat think of these
men and women in their 20s as "soldiers for Tsongas." Among
themselves, they are "the Tsongi," and have been known to
stay up until 2 a.m. quoting passages from their candidate's
writings. "There's a certain sickness to it," Mr. Ladd
concedes. But he adds: "We have our guy, and his name is Paul
Tsongas."
   Thirteen of the Tsongi live in a two-bedroom apartment
called "the Ladd pad," which is part tenement, part shrine.
The walls are decorated only with Tsongas campaign posters
and close-up pictures of the candidate. They sleep on
mattresses strewn on the floor. Neither hygiene nor nutrition
are priorities there, so Mr. Ladd has become proficient at
scrounging free meals and warm water elsewhere. He has been
known to wheedle a shower at the YMCA by professing to take
its "free trial day."
   Work is a jumble of meetings with supporters and would-be
supporters as well as a near-constant series of escapades
that are designed to raise the candidate's visibility, called
Vizes. At 7:30 one morning in November his Viz duty was along
an exit ramp of Manchester's Route 293. He and a partner,
Andrew Nelson, waved Tsongas signs and shouted greetings to
rush-hour traffic until a state policeman gestured for them
to leave. (Even then they stayed a few minutes longer.) Mr.
Ladd once even sacrificed his entire week's wage of $50 from
the Tsongas campaign to rent a jumpsuit, cape and wig just so
one of his fellow workers could masquerade as Elvis Presley
carrying a Tsongas sign.
   Mr. Ladd got into this game in early 1991, when he had
just completed a cross-country jaunt and didn't have a clear
notion about what he wanted to do. On the advice of family
and friends he applied to the Tsongas campaign, starting in
Boston as an office go-fer. Later he moved up to become a
driver for the candidate, and in June moved back to his
native New Hampshire to help staff the campaign's cluttered
office here.
   Back then, when one of Mr. Ladd's chief tasks was to
explain how to pronounce the candidate's name, it was all the
Tsongi could do just to get noticed. At one point, Mr. Ladd
draped his family's speedboat with a Tsongas banner and
buzzed a Harkin cocktail party being held aboard a cruise
ship on Lake Winnipesaukee.
   Little changed into the fall. Even the aides to other
candidates seemed imposing. They carried fancy communications
gear and wore suits that, at least to Mr. Ladd, looked more
expensive than his ancient car. "I feel like a fish among
sharks," he confided to Mr. Nelson.
   But he never lost faith. In November, when workers for Bob
Kerrey marched with banners past the Tsongas office, Mr. Ladd
and his followers rose up as one, grabbed their own signs and
followed them down the street until they reached the office
of Republican candidate Patrick Buchanan. Then Mr. Ladd led
the group inside. "We're going to win. We're going to win,"
they chanted, even though almost no one thought they could.
   That period also produced one of Mr. Ladd's favorite
encounters with Mr. Tsongas. While almost no one was taking
his campaign seriously, a lone column carried in the Boston
Globe suggested that Mr. Tsongas might have a chance because
of his strong organization in New Hampshire. "This is because
of you guys," Mr. Tsongas said, tossing a copy of the
newspaper to Mr. Ladd. Just that small bit of encouragement,
Mr. Ladd says, was "enough gas to keep you going."
   Then, in a rush, everything changed. Front-running Bill
Clinton faltered, none of the other candidates could arouse
much enthusiasm, and Mr. Tsongas, with his New England
credentials and low-key manner, suddenly shot to the head of
the pack. Even for Mr. Ladd, with all the fervor of a true
believer, the transformation has been shocking. At a
Dartmouth College event earlier this month, he cordoned off a
section of chairs in the back of the hall, fearing the room
would look empty when Mr. Tsongas spoke. But more than 600
people arrived and not only the cordoned-off section filled
up, but so did the balcony, and people had to be turned away
for fear of creating a fire hazard.
   In this final few days of the campaign, Mr. Ladd has
barely slept. Hundreds of volunteers have been bused from
Massachusetts and Maryland. Mr. Ladd says he has bitten a
groove in his lip from nervousness and tension, and professes
to be operating on nothing but adrenaline. He also now has a
lot more to manage. The office's cavelike basement has been
converted into a high-tech "situation room," lined with
computer printouts detailing block-by-block get-out-the-vote
plans for the entire state. And the rest of the place is so
crowded with newly minted devotees that they are all but
tripping over each other.
   "Sometimes you wonder, `Will it come through, was it worth
it?'" Mr. Ladd muses. But, he concludes, "We know how much
we've built, and that does something for your confidence."