Personal Technology
   ----
   By Walter S. Mossberg
But They're Curable
                                                                                                       

   NOBODY KNOWS how many IBM-compatible personal computers
will be afflicted by the much-publicized Michelangelo
computer virus, which is set to wipe out the hard disk drives
of infected computers when they are started or restarted
tomorrow. It seems a safe bet, however, that most people will
escape any damage.
   Nevertheless, the companies that make anti-virus software
are hoping you won't relax. They warn that there are over
1,000 computer viruses affecting IBM-compatibles, including a
strain timed to wipe out certain programs every Friday the
13th (there's one next week). And some have trumpeted the
discovery of a new virus that may cause crashes on Apple
Computer's Macintosh machines, which are immune to
Michelangelo.
   Just how serious is the virus threat? Must every computer
owner buy anti-virus software? The answer is that there is a
real threat, but it is easily exaggerated by the anti-virus
software firms. Your need for anti-virus software depends a
lot on how you use your computers. And though many of the
programs are effective, they have downsides.
   Some companies seem to play on fears; a few are warning of
a Maltese Amoeba virus set to erase disk files on March 15.
But the independent National Computer Security Association,
in Washington, says that of the 1,000-plus viruses known to
attack IBM-compatibles, fewer than 50 are common and only
about 100 others have also been found "in the wild;" the rest
are known only to researchers. Last year, the NCSA says, just
two viruses, JerusalemB and Stoned, accounted for 74% of
virus incidents in the U.S.; neither wipes out whole disks,
as Michelangelo does.
   As for the dreaded Maltese Amoeba, the NCSA and others say
it hasn't yet been reported in the U.S. In fact, some of the
worst viruses mainly flourish abroad. Mac owners face few
viruses.
   So, there's no need to panic, but prudence is in order.
Many computers, especially in big organizations, become
infected, and most infections screw up the computer. The
worst cases wipe out data or program files.
   Lone home users who do little disk swapping or program
sharing probably don't need anti-virus software. But in most
other cases -- especially large organizations with many
computer users -- anti-virus software is advisable. At the
very least, hard disks should be scanned for viruses every
month or so, and any floppy disk from an outside source
should be scanned before use.
   Anti-virus programs usually include a scanner, which
operates on demand or when the machine starts up, and looks
for computer code that matches a set of "signatures"
characteristic of known viruses. There's often a separate
module that eradicates any viruses found. And there's
normally a form of the program that remains in memory at all
times to check for viruses.
   In addition, many programs try to seek unknown viruses by
looking for changes in the size and composition of program
files on your hard disk, or by monitoring suspicious behavior
believed common to viruses.
   None of these methods are fool-proof. The programs'
database of virus signatures must be updated often to be
effective. Their memory-resident modules can goof up other
software by hogging memory. And various techniques of finding
unknown viruses might be rendered ineffective if the digital
vandals think up new methods of infection.
   Two programs, Novi by Certus, of Cleveland, and
Untouchable by Fifth Generation, of Baton Rouge, La., claim
such good generic virus detection that you don't need to
update for new virus signatures.
   Novi seems to offer the more sophisticated approach,
monitoring processes inside programs. The company says its
generic technology has caught every new virus for four years.
But if you buy these products, I'd suggest continuing to scan
for known viruses and to get updates, which both products
allow.
   You probably wouldn't go wrong with any of four packages:
Central Point Anti-Virus, by Central Point, Beaverton, Ore.;
Viruscan, by McAfee Associates, Santa Clara, Calif.; Certus's
Novi; and ViruSafe by Xtree, San Luis Obispo, Calif. I'd
place another leading package, Norton Anti-Virus, by
Symantec, Santa Monica, Calif., a whisker behind.
   But the NCSA gives higher marks to two lesser-known
programs: Dr. Solomon's Anti-Virus Toolkit, sold by Ontrack
Computer Systems, Eden Prairie, Minn.; and Leprechaun Virus
Buster, sold by Leprechaun Software, Marietta, Ga.
   Some top virus busters swear by an Icelandic program
that's free to home users and costs businesses just $1 a
computer. Called F-Prot, it's found on database services and
bulletin boards, including NCSA's (202-364-1304).
   For Macintosh users, two commercial programs stand out:
Virex, by Microcom, Norwood, Mass., and Symantec's AntiVirus.
But there's also a very good free anti-virus program for
Macs, called Disinfectant, by John Norstad of Northwestern
University, available on many bulletin boards.