Money On Sale -- Profiting From Low Rates
   ---
   Changing the Mix:
   Low Rates Prompt
   Individual Investors
   To Rethink Strategies
   ---
   Many Are Turning Cautious
   And Paying Down Debt;
   Some Switch Into Stocks
   ---
   The Urge to Gamble Lives On
   ----
   By Georgette Jasen and Earl C. Gottschalk Jr.
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
Frances Clarke isn't just sitting idly and watching
interest rates go down and her interest income being cut in
half. The 69-year-old widow in Leawood, Kan., is taking money
out of bank certificates of deposit and bonds and buying
stocks. "Now the stock market is the only game in town for
people like me," she says.
   "I'm just not going to accept a 4% CD," Mrs. Clarke adds.
"And there's no way I'm going to lock up my money in a 7%
U.S. Treasury bond or a 6% municipal bond for 10 years." She
worries that when interest rates eventually turn up, bond
prices will sink, "leaving me holding the bag."
   Mrs. Clarke is hardly alone. With short-term interest
rates at their lowest level in nearly two decades and
long-term rates the lowest in about five years, millions of
Americans are rethinking their investment strategies. They
are repaying debt and refinancing mortgages as they move out
of CDs and similar cash-like investments. Although some are
taking on more risk in an attempt to duplicate the
double-digit returns of a couple of years ago, most savvy
investors are thinking carefully about any new moves.
   "People are being cautious with their money this time
around," says Roger Servison, president of Fidelity Retail
Marketing Co., a unit of Fidelity Investments in Boston.
"It's a different mix of business than 1987, when they were
chasing junk bonds and the highflying growth stocks." In the
stock arena, growth-and-income funds, which focus on
dividend-paying companies, are now outselling pure growth
funds, and in the bond area, people are sticking to
government funds, he says.
   Kurt Brouwer, partner in Brouwer  Janachowski, a San
Francisco investment advisory firm, agrees. "We've returned
to a more sober, value orientation in this country. It's very
refreshing," he says.
   But is it really smart to narrow your investment options?
   Perhaps not. Some advisers suggest this is a good time for
investors to look to a range of other investments. Some say,
for example, that the combination of low mortgage rates and
weak real-estate prices makes this a good time to look for a
second home. "It's an investment you may someday live in,"
says George Barbee, executive director of client services at
Price Waterhouse  Co., the accounting firm. "Particularly
for a lot of baby-boomer types, this is not a bad time to be
looking out 10 years or more to where you want to live when
you retire." A caveat: Real estate can be illiquid.
   However, advisers even to wealthy individuals aren't
recommending aggressively taking on debt -- even though its
current low cost makes it seem attractive -- to make
investments beyond mortgage refinancing or purchase of a
home. Earl D. Osborn, a partner in the San Francisco
investment advisory firm of Osborn, Bingham  Scarborough,
says that adding debt "makes sense from the pure investment
point of view" but it may not work out "from the cash-flow
point of view."
   The problem is that even wealthy individuals can borrow
too much and have difficulty making payments on the debt if
the stock market or real-estate investments take a nasty
plunge, he says. "Say the market drops 50% -- you must be
sure you can make all the payments irrespective of the
volatility of the portfolio."
   And Neil Plass, chairman of the investment policy
committee at Boston Co., the American Express Co. unit that
provides financial services to wealthy individuals, says
business considerations, not low interest rates, should be
the deciding factor in whether to borrow for something like
buying an apartment building or a business venture. "It
depends on how realistic your cash-flow expectations are," he
says.
   To most individual investors, the stock market poses as
much risk as they want to bear. And, for all the caution,
many have taken the plunge and have helped push stock prices
to all-time highs. The Dow Jones Industrial Average closed
yesterday at a record 3272.81.
   Sales of stock mutual funds soared to records last year,
and fund managers say January sales were strong. Vanguard
Group in Valley Forge, Pa., for instance, reports that last
month investors poured about $750 million of new cash, a
record, into its stock funds.
   And tens of billions of dollars went into bond funds in
1991, the largest inflow in five years. Short-term bond
funds, global bond funds and funds that invest in
mortgage-backed securities -- all of which offer better
returns than money-market funds and CDs -- were among the hot
sellers.
   Financial professionals say now is a time for investors to
re-evaluate their finances. "Figure out how much money you're
going to need in the next three to six months, then take it
out two to three years, five to 10 years, for educating the
kids, your retirement. Then you know what's investable," Mr.
Barbee says.
   He recommends that people start by increasing their
emergency funds from the usual three to six months of
expenses to six to nine months. "A lot more people are
finding themselves looking down a barrel," he says. "And it's
taking a lot more time to find a job."
   People are thinking about that. In the past four months,
John Grable, a 27-year-old church administrator in Boston,
has used cash from a money-market fund to reduce his
credit-card debt to $500 from $3,500. He and his wife are
also trying to pay off the $6,000 left on their auto loan and
are putting $600 a month into mutual funds. "I don't want to
be in New England's economy with a lot of debt and the
possibility of losing a job," he says.
   Paying down debt is one way for individuals to reap huge
returns, financial pros say. While yields on CDs and money
funds have plunged, credit-card rates have hardly budged.
Paying off the balance on a credit card carrying a 19%
interest rate, which is about average, is equal to a 27.5%
return on a taxable investment for an investor in the 31% tax
bracket.
   Individuals are also refinancing mortgages. Alan Minoff, a
46-year-old Chicago retailing executive, estimates that he is
saving about $22,000 a year because he switched from a
15-year fixed-rate mortgage at 10% into a 30-year
adjustable-rate loan that started out at 7.125%. And that
adjustable rate was just reset at 7%.
   Mr. Minoff chose the variable rate because he doesn't
expect to keep his current home more than a few years. Most
homeowners planning to stay put for a while prefer fixed-rate
mortgages, which in two years have dropped nearly two
percentage points. The savings on a $100,000, 30-year loan
could run almost $150 a month.
   For long-term growth, financial advisers recommend stocks.
A lot of people are buying growth stocks that have good
earnings records and pay dividends, and stocks of
well-managed utilities in regions not suffering seriously
from the recession. Investors are also dollar-cost averaging,
that is, investing equal amounts of money over time instead
of making a one-time plunge. And many are choosing mutual
funds rather than individual stocks.
   However, Stan Young, a financial counselor at P.R. Taylor
Inc., a Palo Alto, Calif., investment-banking and advisory
firm, worries that people are moving too quickly out of CDs
and allocating too much money to high-priced stocks.
   Mrs. Clarke, the Kansas widow who's replacing her CDs with
stocks, says she "doesn't want to be foolish and take wild
chances." A University of Chicago Business School graduate,
she uses a computer and a shelf full of investment software
to help manage her money. She looks for blue-chip growth
stocks that haven't been bid up as high as some highflying
shares. Some of her purchases: Philip Morris Cos., Borden
Inc. and General Electric Co. Even though these stocks have
solid earnings-growth records, they haven't participated
fully in the market's rally.
   Philip J. Keating, a 48-year-old investor in Fort
Lauderdale, Fla., likes to hunt for undervalued stocks. In
December, he purchased shares in Upjohn Co., a drug maker
plagued by negative publicity about possible side effects of
its sleeping medication, Halcion. Upjohn says the drug is
safe when used as recommended, and Mr. Keating thinks the
problems are overblown and notes that the stock sells for
less than most drug issues. If you put Upjohn's 3.2% dividend
together with any future increases in its payout and in the
stock price, "you have a good total-return stock, especially
at a time when money-market funds are returning 4%," he says.
   Utility stocks also are popular. "Many pay dividends in
the 5% to 6% area, and you have the potential for capital
appreciation," says John Wimbiscus, manager of executive
financial planning for accountants Deloitte  Touche in
Chicago. Although utility stocks usually don't rise steeply,
they have only one-third the market risk of other equities,
Mr. Wimbiscus says.
   For similar reasons, the "Baby Bells," the telephone
companies spun off from American Telephone  Telegraph Co. in
the mid-1980s, "are doing well," says Mr. Brouwer, the San
Francisco adviser. "They pay pretty good dividends, and the
dividends increase every year, usually outpacing inflation.
That's more than you can say for CDs."
   Many investors are investing in "index" funds, mutual
funds that buy a group of stocks that track a particular
market benchmark, such as the Standard  Poor's 500 Stock
Index. Indeed, Vanguard Group says half the money coming into
its stock funds this year is going into index funds.
   Although these funds won't be the top performers, the
investors buying them apparently prefer them to trying to
pick stocks or funds themselves or paying a money manager to
do it for them. "Long term, it's hard for managed money to
beat the 35 basis points {0.35% of assets} that a
well-managed index fund charges," says Mr. Minoff, the
Chicago retailer.
   Meanwhile, high stock prices are keeping some investors on
the sidelines. Paul Weiss, a 44-year-old radiologist in
Pittsford, N.Y., says he hasn't put any new money into stocks
for a year. He's holding onto those he has and hoarding extra
cash in a fund that invests only in Treasury securities. He
notes, however, that "had I been spending more time managing
my portfolio, I would have switched to a short-term bond fund
to pick up a little more yield." Short-term bond funds pay a
percentage point or so more than money funds do, and the
value of their principal fluctuates very little because they
invest in securities maturing in only one to five years.
   Advisers generally caution against long-term bonds or
long-term-bond funds while interest rates are declining
because the principal will take a hit when rates turn back
up. But some like municipal bonds. Their yields are "very
attractive compared to taxable" bonds, says Hutch Vernon, a
money manager at T. Rowe Price Associates in Baltimore. "The
budget crisis in many states makes it likely that tax rates
will go up rather than down, making them even more
attractive."
   People buying munis, however, should pay attention to
credit quality and to whether the bonds are "callable," that
is, whether they can be redeemed before maturity. "Know what
you're buying," warns Mr. Plass at Boston Co. "You may think
you're locked in {to a high yield} and find that it
disappears."
   Financial experts say every investor should have some
bonds. "Being all in stocks or all in bonds, you expose
yourself to much greater risk than with a balanced
portfolio," Mr. Vernon says.
   Mr. Minoff has gotten that message. The Chicago retailer
is 40% in fixed-income securities, mostly intermediate-term
government bonds and short-term municipals, and as the stock
market rises, he allocates more money to bonds to keep his
portfolio in balance. He also says he hasn't stretched out
maturities or compromised quality to get a better yield. "In
the 1970s and early '80s, I burned my way through every
investment fad -- limited partnerships, a second home -- and
they were all dogs," he says. "I don't believe in going for
the big kill."
   However, some investors are still taking risks. Ira
Lippman, a 40-year-old candy-store owner in Burbank, Calif.,
is trying to cash in on the beaten-down real-estate market.
Last year, he paid $40,000 for four real-estate partnerships,
all in rental storage facilities run by Public Storage, a
real-estate investment trust. He bought all four at a
discount; for example, one partnership originally cost $500 a
share, but Mr. Lippman bought 60 shares at $170 each. "At
that price, I will get a yield of 10% a year on my capital,"
he says. In 15 years or so, he believes, the real estate will
be worth much more, and the ultimate payoff will come when
the facilities are refinanced or sold.
   Real-estate investment trusts are being recommended by
Patrick Mullin, a Cleveland-based partner with Deloitte 
Touche. REITs, he notes, are traded on stock exchanges and
thus marketable, yet they generate little taxable income.
REITS that invest in apartments are a good bet, he adds,
because of the growing population. "Look for high-quality,
investment-grade properties," he advises. "The decision
should be driven by economics, not tax considerations."
   And at T. Rowe Price, Mr. Vernon recommends "high-quality"
junk-bond funds. Their prices have risen, he says, as
companies have refinanced debt and sold equity. But watch for
a narrowing of interest-rate spreads between junk and
investment-grade debt, he warns. "It's a reasonable
investment . . . so long as you're getting paid for the
risks," he says.
   Mrs. Clarke, the Kansas widow, acknowledges that "these
low rates are forcing me to do some riskier things than I
would have done otherwise." She recently bought a few
long-term equity anticipation securities, or LEAPS, on Philip
Morris, Abbott Laboratories and Merck. Like ordinary options,
LEAPS are a contract to buy or sell stock at a set price
within a specific period. But LEAPS don't expire for two
years, compared with a maximum of nine months for standard
options, and thus they permit investors to make longer-term
bets on the market without risking the full price of the
stock.
   And some investors are taking big risks despite
professional advice to the contrary. In New Orleans, Leland
Beach, 50, a freelance musician, and his wife Judy, 48, a
voice and piano teacher, are placing their bets on highflying
biotechnology securities. They've bought shares in Amgen,
Genetics Institute and the Fidelity Select Biotechnology
mutual fund.
   "We know these stocks and funds are volatile and risky,"
says Mrs. Beach, noting that the couple is "heavily dependent
on our investments" since Mr. Beach lost his regular job when
the New Orleans Symphony Orchestra disbanded. "We have to
make our money work for us," she says. "I know we are putting
our necks on the line. We're scared to death."