National Medical
   Says Quarterly Net
   Increased by 7%
   ----
   By Sonia L. Nazario
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
"We've found some things we're not proud of," said a
National Medical spokesman. The company canceled 63 contracts
with psychological counseling services and others that
weren't in compliance with the so-called bounty hunter law in
Texas that went into effect in September. It prohibits
payments for the referral of patients to a medical facility.
The spokesman denied that any referral fees were paid by
National Medical but said that amounts paid in the contracts
by National Medical for other services appeared to be larger
than they should have been.
   In addition, several of its Texas psychiatric hospital
administrators and psychiatric division executives have
resigned or been placed on paid leave. Further details of the
investigation will probably be released this month, the
spokesman said.
   For the second quarter ended Nov. 30, the company reported
net income of $70.6 million, or 41 cents a share, compared
with net income of $66 million, or 42 cents a share, a year
ago. The year-ago net income included a $1.3 million, or one
cent-a-share, charge from debt redemption. The company had
173.4 million common shares outstanding, compared with 159.3
million a year earlier, reflecting a 2-for-1 stock split
distributed in September 1991. Second-quarter revenue rose 8%
to $1.02 billion, compared with $946.3 million a year ago.
   National Medical said the quarter and six months include a
charge of $28.7 million from estimated costs of its recently
announced corporate restructuring, and from unusual legal
costs from the psychiatric-hospital investigations. These
were offset by gains of $29.2 million on the sale of 20
nursing home facilities. The company also spent $100 million
during the quarter to buy back 5.5 million of its common
shares.
   During the quarter, the company's physical rehabilitation
hospitals did best, reporting a 14.3% increase in admissions
and 7% rise in patient days. At the general hospital
division, where operating revenue rose 10%, admissions
increased 1.3%, while patient days remained flat. The
company's psychiatric division saw same-facility patient days
decline 13.3%, a 10% drop in admissions, and a 10% decline in
operating revenue.
   For the six months, the company reported net income
increased 13% to $142.3 million, or 81 cents a share,
compared with net income of $125.7 million, or 80 cents a
share. Year-ago net income included an extraordinary charge
of $1.3 million from debt redemption. Revenue for the six
months rose 9% to $2.01 billion from $1.84 billion a year
earlier.