Economy:
   Bankers Start to See Business Confidence
   And Loan Demand Climbing Across U.S.
   ----
   By Fred R. Bleakley
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
In Kalamazoo, Mich., auto parts suppliers "aren't crying
the blues as they did last fall," says Thomas Leto, chairman
of the loan policy committee of First of America Bank Corp.
He is already seeing a pickup in his loan demand.
   And in a survey two weeks ago, CIT Group, a national
commercial finance company, found that 71% of 323 financial
executives of medium-sized companies thought the economy will
get better in the next six months.
   At the same time, larger corporations have been getting
into a stronger position to spend money by refinancing debt
in the bond markets at a record pace and issuing new common
stock as well. And the private placement markets have been
more accomodating in supplying credit to the upper end of
medium-sized companies.
   A pickup in corporate borrowing can be good for the
economy because it usually means companies are preparing to
spend money to get ready for more demand for their own
products and services. And while loan growth typically does
not show up until an economic recovery is well on its way,
this time may be different, say economists, because
inventories are lower than usual at this stage of a recovery.
   At the same time, there is less talk of a credit crunch.
Bankers say they are more inclined to make loans, both
because they are feeling better about the economy and they
are beginning to see a stronger group of potential borrowers.
   To be sure, there has yet to be an increase in loans on
the books of the nation's banks, although yesterday's data
from the Federal Reserve Bank showed a modest increase in
corporate loans at large New York City banks.
   A number of bankers agree with Frank Lourenso, head of
middle market corporate lending at Chemical Banking Corp.,
who says: "My customer base is not prepared to say the
recession is ended." Robert Bourke, senior vice president of
First Chicago Corp. says that while his loan volume is up a
bit, "it's no groundswell by any stretch of the imagination."
   But more and more bankers are starting to see glimmers of
hope. "Although our numbers do not demonstrate a clear uptick
in lending, our pipeline of deals is significantly better
than six months ago," says Edgar Morsman, executive vice
president of Norwest Bank, Minnesota. Some are for inventory
buildup, others to acquire or open new lines of business.
   Albert Gamper, Jr., president of CIT, also is encouraged
by a higher backlog of proposals under consideration. "It's
still not a healthy backlog, but its bigger than six months
or a year ago," he says. There is $150 million of equipment
waiting to be financed in one line of CIT's business; Mr.
Gamper would feel better if it were $300 million, he says.
   Even in New England, the hardest hit region of the past
few years, "some industries, such as the auto dealers and
some housing sectors, are starting to crawl out," says Robert
Mahoney, director of New England corporate banking for Bank
of Boston. He says he is feeling "significantly better" about
the chance for an increase in lending than he did last summer
because of fourth-quarter sales figures from the 5,000
companies that are his bank's customers.
   "For the first time in a while, there were as many
increases as decreases," Mr. Mahoney says. "That's pretty
good news because dollars of revenues are the best proxy for
future lending." His department is reviewing the data along
with budget forecasts since it is in the midst of its
credit-line renewal decisions.
   Even jewelry companies, which depend on discretionary
spending, are forecasting better times, Mr. Mahoney says.
Other bankers point out that the textile and apparel trades
are among the first to be lining up for new loans.
   Mr. Mahoney says more and more companies have set stable
expense budgets for 1992, instead of a decline, as was the
case last year. Moreover, "I'm not discounting those budgets
as I did last year. Mentally I'm buying into them," he says.
He is expecting loan demand to stay flat through the second
quarter, with a modest rebound beginning after that.
   Economist Maury Harris of PaineWebber Inc. is expecting a
pickup in loan demand because banks are no longer tightening
their lending criteria as much. Previously, the downturn in
lending rates caused by the Federal Reserve was offset by
bank tightening. But in the latest Fed survey of senior loan
officers of five dozen large banks, there was virtually no
tightening between October and January, when there was a 1.5
percentage point drop in the prime rate, he says.
   "If you just stop tightening every time rates go down,
that helps," says Mr. Harris.
   Banks should be wary, however, of overreaching, warns
Christopher Snyder, president of Loan Pricing Corp. Without
further cuts in interest rates, many banks may scramble to
boost earnings in the second and third quarters by lowering
lending criteria and shaving fees, he says.
   At the end of the 1982 recession, many banks were too
eager to get back on track, he says, giving birth to highly
leveraged lending and increasing exposure in agricultural
land, energy and less-developed country lending, with
disastrous consequences for some. "At times like these,
questionable or dangerous lending patterns can be spawned,"
he cautions.
   Businesses can be just as misguided, says Mr. Leto of
First of America Bank. Over the past 20 years, he has seen a
number of auto-supply companies "implode when they come out
of a recession in a weakened condition and try to build
inventory too fast."