World Stock Markets:
   Japan Market's
   Ills Stir Doubts
   Over Recovery
   ----
   By Quentin Hardy and Clay Chandler
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
In the U.S., meanwhile, the economy remains braked by a
lingering recession, the White House is begging Tokyo to buy
more American goods, and the dollar is edging toward an
all-time low against the yen. But those problems haven't
fazed optimistic investors on Wall Street, where the betting
favors a recovery: Share prices on the New York Stock
Exchange keep hitting a record high.
   What's going on? No one seems certain, but there's growing
concern in Tokyo, at least, that there's little reason to
think Japanese market conditions will brighten.
   "I'm getting worried" about the Tokyo market, says Peter
Tasker, a director at the Tokyo office of Kleinwort Benson
International Inc. "Unless {Japan's financial} authorities
really decide to support the market, it will be a bad year."
   But avoiding that outcome may require Japan's regulators
to take bold -- and controversial -- action.
   Despite recent efforts by the nation's government and
securities industry officials to talk up the market, the
Nikkei 225 index resumed its slide into the danger zone
Friday, falling 508.57 points, to 21072.15.
   On Monday, the Nikkei index eased 54.31 points to close
the morning session at 21017.84.
   Friday's volume was a disappointing 180 million shares.
Even with a 675-point rally Wednesday, the Nikkei lost a
total of 249.22 points last week.
   The Tokyo Stock Price Index, or Topix, of all issues
listed in the First Section was down 25.92 points, or 1.61%,
to close at 1584.86.
   It wasn't supposed to work like that. Last week, both
Finance Minister Tsutomu Hata and Bank of Japan Governor
Yasushi Mieno repeatedly made statements in support of the
market. In the past, hopes of official intervention did
wonders to stock values.
   Nor did the market get a boost from the first publicly
announced meeting of senior officials of the so-called "Big
Four" securities firms -- Daiwa Securities Co., Nikko
Securities Co., Nomura Securities Co., and Yamaichi
Securities Co. -- since last summer's financial scandals.
   Like the talk from Messrs. Hata and Mieno, the meeting was
clearly designed to draw investors (indeed, many brokers
think the Big Four met at government urging). It was followed
with an apparently false newspaper report that the four would
create a joint fund to buy stocks -- the kind of story that,
back when investors had confidence, made prices roar.
   Regulators may have to do more than jawbone to keep the
Nikkei from sinking deeper. The problem is, there doesn't
seem to be much policy makers can do, and many argue that the
best course is simply to wait. If changes do come, look for
easier interest rates or liberalized pension fund
regulations.
   The mood is certainly serious enough for action. For all
last week's talk, "the psychology {of the market} hasn't
shown any improvement," said Masanobu Takahashi, research
director at Sanyo Investment Research Ltd. "The number of
people who believe the Nikkei will go below 20000 is
increasing." Such a plunge would take the index well under
the 20221.86 low it reached after the 1987 crash.
   This is a scary prospect for Japan's financial system. If
share prices move down a little bit from here, many Japanese
banks won't meet the capital-adequecy ratios set by the Bank
for International Settlements. A stronger yen would help
their balance sheets somewhat, but if banks need money, many
now-shaky businesses, particularly in the real estate sector,
will collapse.
   "The more the market goes down, the less the Japanese
economy looks likely to recover" from its current slowdown,
said Kleinwort Benson's Mr. Tasker. "That gives companies
financing trouble, which can send the market lower. It can
become self-feeding."
   That prospect lent urgency to Friday's news that senior
officials of the Bank of Japan will have a meeting in late
February with members of the New York Federal Reserve.
   Sources at the Fed played down the meeting, which a
spokesman called "not particularly unprecedented."
   Officials are worried about a "worst-case scenario" in
which the anemic U.S. economy prompts investors finally to
start unloading shares, triggering simultaneous financial
crises in Japan and the U.S., says Soichi Enkyo, chief
economist at Bank of Tokyo Ltd.
   Not everyone here sees a meltdown coming. Several Ministry
of Finance officials maintain that bearishness will ease
within the next several weeks, as corporations stop selling
stocks in their corporate funds ahead of the March 31 end of
the fiscal year.
   They also think the outlook for business will pick up
soon, as the Bank of Japan's Dec. 30 cut in the official
discount rate to 4.5%, the third in six months, takes effect
on investment plans.
   Given what they see as the prospect of a turnaround
relatively soon, the bureaucrats are reluctant to institute
extraordinary measures.
   The government's willingness to act apparently increases
when stocks are under the 21000 level, however. During the
crash of 1990, it was the point where then-Finance Minister
Ryutaro Hashimoto announced market-boosting measures.
   On Wednesday, when the Nikkei opened at 20858.30, the Bank
of Japan injected funds into the money market, which sent
short-term interest rates below 5%. The central bank, which
remains concerned about inflation, tightened on Thursday and
Friday, though, sending rates back over 5.5%.
   Friday's stock market tumble should cause them to rethink
their policy on short rates. Another cut in the discount rate
is still likely to be at least a month off, as the bankers
gauge business sentiment.
   There are other steps the government could take, too. Most
probable is to raise the maximum amount pension funds can
invest in the market.
   Yet there are signs that the authorities may be right to
simply wait for a market turnaround. On Friday afternoon the
Tokyo Exchange revealed that in the week ending Jan. 17,
Japanese corporations were net buyers of 11.6 billion yen
($93.6 million) of stocks. This was only the second time
they've been net buyers since October 1990.
   ---
   Other Market Activity
                                                                                                       

   London share prices fell Friday, hurt by worries about the
outlook for corporate profits and Britain's economic
recovery. Frankfurt stocks were mixed to lower.
   In London, the Financial Times-Stock Exchange 100-share
index dropped 14.9 points to 2510.4, near the intraday high
of 2515.7. The FT 30-stock index gave up 18.6 points to
1944.9. Volume was 614.6 million shares, compared with 575.4
million shares a day earlier.
   In Frankfurt, the market continued to be influenced by
concerns about strikes by organized labor over wages. The DAX
30stock index ended at 1664.77, down 4.8 points. Twenty of
DAX shares retreated, eight advanced, and two were unchanged.
   Elsewhere in Europe, Paris share prices finished
moderately higher as institutional investors decided to get a
jump on an expected rally starting today with the opening of
the February accounting month.
   Among Asian and Pacific markets, which closed lower
overall Friday, Sydney shares' slump resulted from a plunge
in the Australian currency and a dive in the bond market;
banking stocks all dropped. Hong Kong equities' decline, the
first in nine sessions, was minimized by bargainhunters who
moved in after an initial sharp drop. Taipei share prices'
recovery was strong and broad, with financial shares in the
center of buying interest. Seoul investors turned cautious
about the market's rapid rises last week, and share prices
ended lower.
                                                                                                       

   Here are price trends on the world's major stock markets,
as calculated by Morgan Stanley Capital International
Perspective, Geneva. To make them directly comparable, each
index is based on the close of 1969 equaling 100. The
percentage change is since year-end.
                                                   %1991
                               Jan 23     Jan 22    Year
                                                                                                       

   U.S. .....................  387.8       390.5   + 26.4
   Britain ..................  747.3       745.7   + 16.9
   Canada ...................  410.3       411.7   + 11.9
   Japan ....................  934.3       931.4   -  6.0
   France ...................  522.1       523.0   + 23.1
   Germany ..................  258.8       260.6   + 14.7
   Hong Kong ................ 3366.5      3306.4   + 55.0
   Switzerland ..............  217.1       217.3   + 28.6
   Australia ................  346.3       345.7   + 29.3
   World index ..............  527.7       529.8   + 14.3