ENTERPRISE -- Small Business  Social Responsibility
   ----
   By Udayan Gupta
ENTREPRENEURS are turning to foundations for capital.
   When Lyndon Comstock last year needed start-up capital for
his Community Capital Bank in New York City, he turned to an
unlikely source: foundations. And when Southern Development
Bancorp., Arkadelphia, Ark., wanted an infusion of capital,
it, too, turned to foundations.
   "For specific social-purpose ventures like ours, there
aren't any ready sources of equity," says Mr. Comstock,
chairman of Community Capital, which lends to small
businesses and nonprofit concerns. Foundations, which have
significant resources, are starting to play a funding role,
seeing an opportunity to combine social responsibility with
potentially profitable investments, says John May, a partner
of Calvert Social Venture Partners, Bethesda, Md.
   "We're looking more closely at program-related investments
that support entrepreneurial efforts," says Paul
Lingenfelter, director of program evaluation at the John D.
and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation, Chicago.
   As part of an effort to broaden its scope beyond
traditional community development and low-income housing, the
MacArthur Foundation last year invested in several ventures,
including an environmentally sensitive logging operation in
the Dominican Republic and Cultural Survival, a Cambridge,
Mass., company that markets products from the Amazon rain
forest.
   The Metropolitan Life Foundation, New York, has invested
in banks, including Community Capital and Southern
Development, and other ventures that promote economic
development. "We are open to investing in ventures that have
a broad social impact," says Dennis White, director of social
investment programs.
   "There's an increased recognition on the part of
foundations that ways have to be found to provide jobs for
people," says Richard Mittenthal of Conservation Co., a New
York consultant to foundations and nonprofits. Many
foundations have concluded that creating jobs in depressed
areas is one way to tackle social and economic problems, he
adds.
                                                                                                       

   Fostering Entrepreneurs
   With the Right Stuff
                                                                                                       

   AN organization in Virginia aims to encourage socially
responsible entrepreneurs.
   Ashoka: Innovators for the Public so far has given money
to 370 such entrepreneurs worldwide, including Brazil, India
and Mexico. The projects range from creating cooperatives for
Mexican farmers to developing job opportunities for Brazilian
girls living in the streets.
   Ashoka, which receives its funds from individuals,
corporations and foundations, provides funding until
entrepreneurs develop organizations capable of standing on
their own.
   It also provides management guidance through its own
professionals and an alumni network. "Just as you need
entrepreneurs in the steel and hotel businesses, you need
them in education and human rights," says William Drayton,
president of the 10-year old Arlington group.
   One Ashoka entrepreneur is Vikram Parchure, a Bangalore,
India, architect helping local artisans develop new uses and
markets for their terra cotta handicrafts. With funds from
Ashoka, he has helped the artisans develop more
fuel-efficient kilns as well as sturdier tools. Mr. Parchure
also is working with child scavengers to create a paper
project. He is teaching them to produce pulp from ground
paper, flour and water and then mold the pulp into different
objects, such as boxes, baskets and furniture.
                                                                                                       

   Groups Provide Bridge
   Into Ranks of Employed
                                                                                                       

   FOR THE jobless, job-readiness ventures are growing.
   Opportunity Foundation has started New York Mix, a
magazine whose 62 employees include 45 homeless and
chronically unemployed people. "We are trying to provide
transitional, structured work opportunities for people who
desperately need them, in a setting that helps them become
more independent," says Rod Richardson, foundation president.
Mr. Richardson says the magazine will try to move these
people into all departments, including office administration,
advertising sales and editorial. He plans to provide them
with training and a structured work environment until they
feel confident about moving on to another, more permanent
job. All employees will be hired full time and paid market
wages, Mr. Richardson says.
   In Chicago, Bottomless Closet, which calls itself an
employment-readiness company, is providing welfare women with
clothes and consultations for job interviews. Founded by a
group of Chicagoarea businesswomen, the group receives
donations of clothes to give to potential job hunters for
interviews. In its first year, it says it has helped nearly
100 women get jobs.
                                                                                                       

   Insurer Pitches In
   Against Child Abuse
                                                                                                       

   THE LARGEST provider of dental benefits in Massachusetts
is training affiliated dentists to spot child abuse.
   Delta Dental Plan of Massachusetts, a nonprofit group that
includes about 4,000 dentists, says it started the program
because dental professionals are in position to identify
abused and neglected children.
   But it has had to "overcome a lot of resistance," says
Robert Hunter, president of the plan. "Many dentists didn't
understand what was required of them. Others didn't want to
handle such a touchy subject."