Advertising:
   Consumers' Favorite Commercials Tend
   To Feature Lower Prices or Cuddly Kids
   ----
   By Joanne Lipman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Fancy production numbers and breakthrough creative ideas
held relatively little appeal for consumers last year, Video
Storyboard Tests Inc. found in its annual survey asking
22,000 people to name outstanding ads. Infiniti, whose
bizarre rocks-and-trees campaign had made it a favorite for
several years, dropped off the list completely. American
Express's offbeat new campaign, picturing enormous green
cards improbably affixed to a Concorde jet and lounging in a
bistro, didn't even crack the top 25.
   Nor did viewers respond well to the new campaign from
Miller Lite, which dropped out of the top 10 for the first
time in a decade, ranking No. 13 after dumping "Tastes great
-- less filling" for the widely derided "It's it -- and
that's that."
   Instead, at least a third of the 25 top commercials harped
primarily on low prices -- including a record six fast-food
companies, all hyperactively promising special deals. And
most of the top campaigns that didn't talk about price relied
on another cliche with renewed appeal in these troubled
times: cute little kids. Look no further than Du Pont
Stainmaster's long-running campaign, starring toddlers
terrorizing Mom's rugs, which leaped to the No. 3 spot from
No. 17 just a year earlier.
   "If you're out of a job or the recession is hitting
{home}, people are falling back on their families; it
provides emotional support," figures David Vadehra, Video
Storyboard's president. Spots for McDonald's (No. 5),
Coca-Cola (No. 6), Huggies (No. 15), Johnson  Johnson baby
shampoo (No. 18) and Jell-O (No. 25) all got a boost from
cuddly kids.
   Eyecatching creative work didn't go completely unrewarded.
Nestle's Taster's Choice made its debut at No. 16, thanks to
the continuing soap-opera saga of two flirtatious neighbors
created by McCann-Erickson. And Pepsi and Energizer, which
have been top 10 regulars in recent years for their
innovative ads, took the top two spots for 1991.
   But the latest results suggest advertisers may want to
throw out their Advertising 101 textbooks -- or throw in the
towel. Everybody in advertising knows you aren't supposed to
harp on low prices: It turns your product into a commodity
and chips away at the image that advertising works so hard to
build. In the past, most TV spots steered clear of price
altogether, except for those tacky late-night spots for auto
dealerships and Ginsu knives.
   But try telling that to Taco Bell. It cracked the top 10
with "59] 79] 99]" blaring as its sole jingle, slogan and
message. "You can do it in a way that is entertaining, and
people will like it," insists Neal Sellman, executive
creative director of Foote Cone  Belding's San Francisco
office, which created the ads. Taco Bell's screaming-price
tactic outperformed such classy campaigns as the California
Raisins and Diet Coke because, he says, "It rocks, it just
rocks. I think our image is healthier than ever."
   Indeed, the old rules may no longer apply in this troubled
economy, suggests Philip Dusenberry, world-wide creative
chief of BBDO, which created three of the top 10 ads. "People
are looking for bargains and ways to save money," he says.
"There's nothing wrong with {advertising} that, as long as
you uphold your image." Among BBDO's winners was Pizza Hut,
which jumped to the No. 10 spot from 25th a year ago, partly
on the strength of ads talking about special price deals.
   Commercials that relied mostly on creativity, meanwhile,
bombed last year. A look at car advertising tells the story:
In 1990, Infiniti and Isuzu both made the list, the former
for its weird Zen-inspired ads and the latter because of
entertaining spokes-liar "Joe Isuzu." Last year, though, both
dropped off the list. The cars ads that replaced them, for
Toyota (at No. 14) and Honda (No. 23), both talk a lot about
value, instead.
   One Honda commercial compares a Honda to a bank safe, with
the reasoning, "There's no safer place to invest your money."
Another hawks fuel efficiency, telling car buyers they will
spend less time -- and presumably less money -- at the gas
pump with a Honda.
   "We never talk price; cheap isn't what counts," says Larry
Postaer, creative director of Santa Monica-based Rubin
Postaer  Associates, Honda's ad agency. But convincing
people they're getting good value is a must, he says: "People
today, if it's a big investment, will make damned sure
they'll get their money's worth."
   Video Storyboard's Mr. Vadehra expects to see more of the
same in ads this year. Advertisers have discovered, "for the
first time, that you can sell price on television," he says.
He isn't so sure that's a good thing -- but "for 1992, unless
the recession is behind us, it will stay that way."
   ---
        Most Popular Television Commercials of 1991
                                                                                                       

   1991   1990
   Rank   Rank   Brands               Ad Agencies
                                                                                                       

    1      1     Pepsi/Diet Pepsi     BBDO
                                                                                                       

    2      3     Energizer            Chiat/Day/Mojo
                                                                                                       

    3     17     DuPont Stainmaster   BBDO
                                                                                                       

    4      2     Nike                 Wieden  Kennedy
                                                                                                       

    5      5     McDonald's           Leo Burnett
                                                                                                       

    6      4     Coca-Cola            McCann-Erickson
                                                                                                       

    7      6     Little Caesar        Cliff Freeman 
                                      Partners
                                                                                                       

    8      9     Budweiser            DMBB
                                                                                                       

    9     --     Taco Bell            Foote, Cone  Belding
                                                                                                       

   10     25     Pizza Hut            BBDO
                                                                                                       

   11     --     Coors Light          Foote, Cone  Belding
                                                                                                       

   12      8     California Raisins   Foote, Cone  Belding
                                                                                                       

   13      7     Miller Lite          Leo Burnett
                                                                                                       

   14     --     Toyota               Saatchi  Saatchi
                                                                                                       

   15     --     Huggies              Olgivy  Mather
                                                                                                       

   16     --     Taster's Choice      McCann-Erickson
                                                                                                       

   17     16     Diet Coke            Lintas
                                                                                                       

   18     --     Johnson  Johnson    Lintas
                 baby shampoo
                                                                                                       

   19     15     Burger King          DMBB/
                                      Saatchi  Saatchi
                                                                                                       

   20     --     ATT                 Ayer/Olgivy  Mather/
                                      Young  Rubicam/
                                      McCann-Erickson

   21     12     Bud Light            DDB Needham
                                                                                                       

   22     20     Duracell             Olgivy  Mather
                                                                                                       

   23     --     Honda                Rubin Postaer 
                                      Associates
                                                                                                       

   24     --     Wendy's              Backer Spielvogel
                                      Bates
                                                                                                       

   25     19     Jell-O               Young  Rubicam
                                                                                                       

   Source: Video Storyboard Tests Inc.