Law -- Legal Beat:
   Appeals Court Strips Some Power
   From RICO in Pornography Cases
   ----
   By Arthur S. Hayes and Neal Templin
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
The ruling, which will affect federal cases in nine
western states and territories, is notable because it
contradicts two federal appeals court rulings elsewhere in
the country. Media lawyers say the issue is likely to end up
before the U.S. Supreme Court.
   Under RICO, defendants face severe penalties and
forfeiture of all assets derived from a pattern of
racketeering. Congress amended the law in 1984 to include
obscenity.
   The Justice Department has maintained that publishers who
distribute both obscene and non-obscene videotapes should be
deprived of their entire operations when illegal revenue has
been commingled with lawful proceeds.
   First Amendment lawyers and many in the videotape and book
publishing industry have assailed the government's approach,
arguing that the First Amendment prohibits the government
from banning books that haven't been found to be obscene.
   The Ninth Circuit limited the assets that prosecutors can
seize from publishers. Judge Thomas Tang wrote that only
"those assets traceable to or substantially intertwined with
the obscenity racketeering enterprise may be forfeited."
   Federal prosecutors had won the right to seize all the
assets of publishers under RICO's obscenity provisions in the
two other cases. In a case before the Fourth Circuit in
Alexandria, Va., prosecutors were permitted to seize $1
million in assets. The Eighth Circuit in Minneapolis upheld
the government's power to seize $25 million in assets.
   No specific assets were at stake in the Ninth Circuit
case. The suit was brought by the Adult Video Association in
Beverly Hills, which represents producers, distributors and
retailers, in an effort to convince the court to reject the
government's interpretation of the law.
   John Weston, a partner in the Beverly Hills, Calif., law
firm Weston  Sarno, which represents Adult Video, called the
ruling an "extraordinarily important decision" that "differs
squarely with the Fourth and Eighth Circuit" giving the U.S.
Supreme Court "even greater motivation" to review the issue.
   Paul Cambria, the plaintiffs' attorney who unsuccessfully
argued the Alexandria case, said the ruling came up short
because it failed to strictly limit forfeiture to the assets
alleged to be obscene.
   Patrick Trueman, head of the Justice Department's child
exploitation and obscenity section, said "RICO remains an
effective tool in the area of obscenity prosecution" because
the government is "careful in what we seize."
   Last year, U.S. District Judge Barefoot Sanders in Dallas
ruled that a 1988 federal law that makes it easier for
prosecutors to seize assets in obscenity cases violated the
First Amendment and the Eighth Amendment requirement that
penalties be proportionate to the crime. (Adult Video
Association vs. U.S. Attorney General, U.S. Court of Appeals
for the Ninth Circuit, Pasadena, Calif., 90-55252)
   ---
   FORD ORDERED to make Bronco II records available to the
public.
   The internal records involve allegations that Ford Motor
Co.'s Bronco II off-road vehicle is prone to roll over.
   The decision by a Texas state court judge will allow
journalists and government agencies access to Ford's internal
records on the case and could make it more difficult for Ford
to bury the long-running controversy. Ford hasn't decided if
it will appeal the ruling, a company spokesman said.
   "Many lawyers have already seen these {documents}, but the
public has never seen them," said Russell Cook, the lawyer
who argued that the records should be made public. Mr. Cook
is representing the family of Dawnell A. Benson, who was
killed in a 1990 accident involving a Bronco II.
   Ford stopped manufacturing the Bronco II sport utility
vehicles two years ago and replaced it with the Ford
Explorer, which has become a smash hit. However, Ford still
faces dozens of Bronco II lawsuits. Ford sold 764,000 Bronco
IIs in the U.S. before it stopped making the vehicle.
   Ford had sought a protective order covering the documents
for "competitive reasons," the company spokesman said.
However, Texas has one of the most liberal public disclosure
laws in the country, and state District Judge Ann Cochran
ruled the company has until April 15 to disclose various
depositions, statistical information and "memos relating to
the rollover incident rate and rollover fatality rate of the
Bronco II."
   In a separate case earlier this year involving the Texas
public disclosure law, a state judge ordered Eli Lilly  Co.
to turn over complete medical studies of its popular
anti-depressant Prozac to a plaintiff's lawyer. The company
has appealed the case to the state supreme court.
   (Robert D. Benson vs. Ford Motor Co., District Court of
Harris County, Texas, 91-03605)
   ----
   LAW FIRM LOSES APPEAL in feud over departure payout.
   A New York appeals court ruled that the partnership
agreement of the law firm Milbank, Tweed, Hadley  McCloy
unfairly restricted a partner's right to quit and join a
competing firm. The dispute involved former partner Kevin R.
Hackett, who left to join the real estate department of
Fried, Frank, Harris, Shriver  Jacobson, another large New
York law firm.
   The case focused on an issue of concern to many law firms
facing increasing partner defections: how to draft
partnership agreements without restricting lawyers' rights to
practice where they please.
   In Mr. Hackett's case, Milbank Tweed withheld his $666,461
partnership payout because of contract terms specifying that
he had to either retire or earn less than $100,000 to receive
the amount. Milbank Tweed maintains the provision was not
intended to deter partners from jumping to rival law firms.
However, the Appellate Division of New York's Supreme Court,
an intermediate appeals court, upholding a lower court
decision, ruled that the agreement violated New York's public
policy and the state's professional code by depriving
partners of compensation.
   Mr. Hackett's lawyer, Gerald E. Ross, said the decision
clears the way for a trial to recover damages, but a lawyer
at Milbank Tweed said the firm would seek to appeal the
decision to New York's highest court.
   (Hackett vs. Milbank, Tweed, Appellate Division, state
Supreme Court)