Nomura Becomes a Top Program Trader
   In New York, but Shuns Strategy in Japan
   ----
   By Michael R. Sesit
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
That's because program trading is politically unpopular in
Japan, where the vulnerable stock market has been rocked more
than once by U.S. firms using these strategies. Some Japanese
even blame program trading for much of the Tokyo market's 43%
decline since late 1989. Corporate culture also comes into
play, retarding the U.S. unit's growth by such restrictions
as not allowing it to pitch program-trading and other
strategies to Nomura customers in other parts of the world.
   Program trading is a catch-all phrase that amounts to
sophisticated, computer-driven stock-trading strategies. As
defined by the New York Stock Exchange, program trading
involves the simultaneous purchase or sale of at least 15
different stocks with a total value of $1 million or more.
   The most controversial strategy is stock-index arbitrage
-- buying or selling large baskets of stocks and
simultaneously taking off -- setting positions in stock-index
futures to capture profits from fleeting price differences.
On some occasions, index arbitrage can send a stock market
zooming or plunging unexpectedly. Such moves anger some U.S.
investors -- though many fewer now than several years ago --
but have traumatized many Japanese investors.
   Nomura has been at or near the top of the Big Board's
weekly listing of most-active program traders for months. In
the latest listing, for the week ended Jan. 24, Nomura traded
16 million shares in program-trading strategies.
   This climb began with the appointment in October 1989 of
Max C. Chapman Jr. as co-chairman of Nomura Securities
International Inc., the New York unit's formal name. His
strategy calls for expansion into program trading and
"derivatives," which are instruments such as options and
warrants that are based on underlying securities or security
indexes. To implement this plan, he hired Joseph R.
Schmuckler away from Kidder, Peabody  Co. in March 1990.
   The unit's success has come in a market where Nomura
itself is an insignificant player and without being allowed
to use any of the parent firm's money. Nomura's U.S. unit
currently has about $700 million in capital and a balance
sheet in excess of $30 billion. So far, Mr. Schmuckler says,
the sophisticated stock-trading effort is "consistently and
solidly profitable."
   Even so, Nomura U.S. has run into resistance at Tokyo
headquarters, which helps explain why Nomura isn't a major
program trader in its home market. Until last year, Nomura
made so much money from selling stock to individual investors
that Tokyo executives saw little need for using program
trading techniques or derivative securities.
   In addition, says a U.S. securities-firm executive, the
Japanese style of seeking consensus and of collectively
accepting the rewards of success or consequences of failure
doesn't produce individuals willing to assume the
responsibilities of capital commitment -- which program
trading requires.
   In stock trading, "ultimately, you've got to give a young
kid at a desk the power to push the button," says the
executive. "If you need five people to make that decision, it
won't be made, and the kid will leave."
   Also, many of Nomura's senior managers didn't understand
the strategies being developed by high-priced American talent
in New York. Because they didn't understand, they ridiculed.
One Nomura executive in Tokyo once described program trading
as a Wall Street disease. More recently, Atsushi Saito, a
Nomura executive managing director based in Tokyo, criticized
"speculation" in Tokyo's futures markets.
   In the U.S., Nomura wouldn't allow its unit to use its
credit rating (Triple-A by Moody's Investors Service Inc. and
Double-A plus by Standard  Poor's) in backing trading
commitments. As a result, the U.S. unit has been
significantly limited in expanding into "swap" trading, in
which two or more parties exchange financial obligations, and
other sophisticated products and techniques.
   A separate operation in New York deals in swaps, but it
reports directly to Tokyo and has suffered morale and
management upheavals. Two departing executives are suing
Nomura for, among other things, allegedly violating their
contracts and inhibiting their earning potential by limiting
their use of the parent company guarantee.
   Nomura's fiefdom structure also prevents its U.S. unit
from building customer contacts with clients in other parts
of the world, say some executives.
   Despite this criticism, Messrs. Chapman and Schmuckler
contend that Nomura is changing. The Japanese market decline,
reduced trading activity in Tokyo and a series of scandals
involving compensating favored institutional clients for
trading losses has reduced profits and is forcing change.
   For instance, Mr. Chapman notes that his unit now has
approval to use Nomura's high credit rating in selling $1.2
billion of commercial paper and $400 million of medium-term
notes, money that could be used for trading, among other
things. Also, Nomura is using its credit rating to finance a
recently formed company that holds options traded by its New
York, Tokyo and London units. Mr. Chapman says a similarly
structured swap operation is under consideration.
   "It's a snowball that's begun to roll faster and bigger,"
says Mr. Chapman.
   Noting the way Goldman Sachs, Morgan Stanley, J.P. Morgan
 Co. and Bankers Trust Co. "are using their technology and
their capital to develop creative customer products that
produce relatively high margins for themselves," he says,
"That's where we want to go."
   He adds: "If we can take it that far and apply it on a
global basis to service Nomura's customers, then we have in
many ways achieved the globalization of the securities
business, which is the dream of people in this business."