LEISURE  ARTS:
   On Sports: The Pacers' `Little Gem'
   ----
   By Frederick C. Klein
"The main difference, I guess, is that a lot of guys think
they can play in the league, but I always knew I could," says
the slim, amiable 25-year-old, who stands 6-foot-2. "The
problem," he adds, "was getting other people to know what I
knew."
   This process involved six different professional teams in
the three years between the time Williams left Baylor U. in
1988 and the neck injury to Vern Fleming, the Pacers' veteran
incumbent at the point post, midway through the 1990-91
season that, finally, allowed Williams to strut his stuff for
more than a few minutes an evening.
   The upshot of the episode is that Williams emerged as a
star while Fleming, though still very much a part of the
team, became the latest in sports' long line of Wally Pipps.
Through Wednesday night, Williams led the league in steals
and was sixth in assists while scoring almost 15 points a
game for a talented but sometimes feckless squad that, after
a poor start, had won 15 of its last 22 games and is
contending for a playoff spot.
   Pat Riley, coach of the New York Knicks, has called the
Pacers' new hero "a little gem." His own coach, Bob Hill,
very much agrees. "We got lucky when we got Micheal," says
he.
   How this all came to be says a lot about Williams, but it
also says something about Basketball USA. The winnowing that
attends every upward step players attempt in The Game We Play
Best is ruthless and, at times, unfair, dependent upon hype
as well as ability. "Some players have to prove they can
play, others have to prove they can't," Williams observes.
   The Dallas-bred Williams came to the pros enmeshed in the
former category. His college -- Baylor -- isn't much of a
basketball school, and its conference -- the Southwest --
isn't much of a basketball conference. He was Baylor's
all-time assists leader, and earned all-conference and
allacademic honors (he had a better than "B" average in
finance). But 6-foot-2 guards are plentiful, and he wasn't
picked until late in the second round of the NBA draft, by
Detroit.
   First-round draft picks typically enter the pro game
buoyed by rich multiyear contracts and the high expectations
of hopeful fans. Second-rounders have to take what they can
get. In Williams's case, this meant a one-year, $100,000 pact
(that's pocket change in the NBA) and a spot on the Pistons
bench behind Isiah Thomas, a point guard of considerable
note.
   Williams stuck with Detroit in a minor role through its
1988-89 championship year, but was traded to Phoenix the next
season. He played behind the estimable Kevin Johnson there,
and was cut after six games. The Dallas Mavericks, his
hometown team, picked him up, but cut him after a single
practice.
   That last, he relates, was the unkindest cut. "It wasn't
just not making it that hurt -- it was the reasons the teams
put out to justify cutting me," he says. "They said I
couldn't go to my left, although I knew I could. They said I
couldn't shoot, but I knew I could do that, too. One coach
said I lacked stamina, which was funny because he never let
me play long enough to find out."
   Not so funny, Williams continues, was the rumor -- started
he knows not how -- that he was on drugs. "Dick Versace his
first coach at Indiana took me aside to ask me about that
right after I arrived here, and it floored me," Williams
says. "I mean, one beer is my limit."
   Anyway, after the Dallas cut, Williams returned home to
ponder his future. He planned to start by picking up the nine
credit hours he needed to obtain his college degree. "I told
my mom what I was thinking, and thought she'd approve. All
the time I was in school she'd harped on academics," he says.
"But she surprised me. She said, `Micheal, go play. That's
what's in your heart.' And she was right."
   So Williams signed with Rapid City, S.D., of the
minor-league Continental Basketball Association, and did so
well that the NBA Charlotte Hornets picked him up before the
season ended. He played that summer for a team aligned with
the Pacers, and impressed them sufficiently that they signed
him for the 1990-91 campaign.
   He became a starter after the injury to Fleming and wound
up leading the team in steals and averaging 11 points a game.
This season, he's picked up where he left off, and then some.
   That's come through especially in recent weeks, as the
Pacers have rallied to justify the promise they showed with
their strong second half last season. A late-January lineup
change that made starters of big men LaSalle Thompson and
Greg Dreiling has helped, but so has Williams's maturation.
"He gave us speed and quickness from the beginning," says
Coach Hill. "Now he's giving us judgment, too."
   Williams puts it a bit differently. "I've got a lot of
mouths to feed," he notes of such fast-gun teammates as
Reggie Miller, Chuck Person and Detlef Schrempf. "I'm
learning which to feed, and when."
   And seeing properly to his own care and feeding helped
allow him to take advantage of his opportunity when it arose.
"I haven't made as much money as most in this league
{$100,000 his first year, then $150,000, $375,000 and
$500,000}, but I've always saved a lot more than I spent," he
says. "Even after my first year I had a nest egg, and that,
plus my degree being so close, let me know I'd be OK no
matter what happened with basketball.
   "When the Mavs cut me, and I went down to the CBA, I was
eager to prove myself, but not desperate, like some guys who
were there. That's a big, big difference. You have to see it
to understand."