Marketing  Media -- Advertising:
   Now Anti-Smoking Ads for Kids
   Make Activists Fume at Industry
   ----
   By Joanne Lipman
It isn't working. Anti-smoking activists charge that the
campaigns are a thinly veiled attempt at damage control, and
that the only effect they have is to actually encourage kids
to puff away.
   One new ad sponsored by RJR Nabisco's tobacco operations,
for example, is a cartoon in the style of RJR's funky Joe
Camel. "And you think this looks cool?" asks the headline,
above a drawing of two boys who, complete with buzz cuts and
leather jackets, look very cool indeed as they steal a smoke
in a men's room.
   "These ads are an appeal to children to smoke. It's a
challenge to them -- forbidden fruit," charges an irate
Joseph DiFranza, associate professor at the University of
Massachusetts at Fitchburg and an anti-smoking activist.
   The ads, some of which also hammer home the idea that kids
are too young to smoke, send "a terrible message . . . that
smoking is OK because it's an adult custom," adds Scott
Ballin, of the Coalition for Smoking or Health.
   The big tobacco companies are putting muscle behind the
youth anti-smoking efforts in a bid to fend off regulation
and to drum up some increasingly scarce good will. The
companies and their trade group, the Tobacco Institute, have
launched a few scattershot youth-smoking programs in the
past, but most didn't have teeth and didn't last long.
   This time around, though, the effort is far broader. RJR
and the Tobacco Institute both have rolled out new campaigns
since October. Philip Morris is negotiating a huge youth
anti-smoking campaign in New York City as part of an
agreement to stage the Marlboro Grand Prix auto race in the
city.
   The tobacco companies' efforts come conveniently in the
wake of three surveys published in the Journal of the
American Medical Association that found that Joe Camel is
highly effective in reaching kids. In one study,
six-year-olds were nearly as familiar with Joe, Camel's
dapper dromedary mascot, as they were with the Disney
Channel's Mickey Mouse logo.
   RJR, which makes Camel, has lashed out at the studies'
methodology, but is also trying to diffuse the critics. Its
new anti-smoking youth campaign began in a few selected
cities in October, and should be in schools in 30 cities
nationwide including Colorado Springs, Colo., Detroit and
Winston-Salem, N.C., by year end, a spokeswoman says.
   One of the cartoon ads, available in poster size for
schools, shows a hip-looking teen-age girl smoking a
cigarette, while a crowd of slightly more square kids scowls
from afar. "Don't create a smoke screen between you and your
friends," the headline says. RJR is distributing similar
messages on posters and table tents to middle schools, and
plastering the ads on billboards nearby.
   Anti-smoking groups say the ads send the wrong message,
and that they should instead talk about the health risks of
tobacco. But an RJR spokeswoman counters that kids already
know all about health risks. The reason they start smoking is
peer pressure, she says, so by telling them it's OK to resist
that pressure, "it will be a good complement to the health
message."
   The spokeswoman also defends using cartoons, even though
they are so similar in style to those used for Joe Camel and
Brown  Williamson's Kool penguin. In tests, she says, kids
just didn't relate as well to photographs. "They would say,
`I don't like his shirt, he's a nerd,'" she says.
   The Tobacco Institute, which is funded by the tobacco
companies, began its youth anti-smoking campaign more than a
year ago with print ads geared to parents. Earlier this
month, it rolled out a new television campaign, also with Mom
and Dad in mind, with the theme, "Smoking shouldn't be a part
of growing up." The ads tout a brochure called, "Helping
Youth Say No" and list as their sponsor the "Family
C.O.U.R.S.E. Consortium," for "Communication Through
Understanding, Respect and Self-Esteem."
   To critics like the Coalition's Mr. Ballin, the whole
campaign "reinforces the sentiment that it's OK to smoke,"
because it suggests smoking is for grownups-and every kid
wants to be like a grownup. But a spokeswoman for the
Institute says the critics miss the point, since the ads are
geared to parents, not kids.
   In any event, tobacco companies say anti-smoking activists
are implacable. "We've done a lot of things that those folks
have suggested," sighs a Philip Morris spokesman. "But
they're never satisfiedand they won't be satisfied until
we're out of business."
   ---
   Interpublic Stock Split
                                                                                                       

   Interpublic Group of Cos. said it intends to recommend a
2-for-1 stock split at the company's annual meeting in May,
if stockholders approve an increase in common shares to 100
million from 75 million.
   In addition, Interpublic said it also would increase its
quarterly dividend on a pre-split basis to 23 cents from 21
cents, or to 11.5 cents after the split. If the issue of 25
million new shares is approved, the Interpublic board will
set pay and record dates for the stock dividend and the
quarterly cash dividend immediately after the May 19 meeting.
   Interpublic is the New York holding company that owns New
York agencies McCann-Erickson and Lintas:Worldwide; Lowe
Group, London; and Dailey  Associates, Los Angeles.
   ---
   Celebrity Shopping
                                                                                                       

   The Albertville games aren't over yet, but it's never too
soon for advertisers to hunt endorsement talent among
Olympians present and future.
   In Albertville, Bristol-Myers Squibb, the New York maker
of Nuprin pain-reliever, gave figure-skater Todd Eldredge and
luger Erica Terwilligar Nuprin "comeback" awards. The two
athletes will appear in a Nuprin ad that is set to appear in
U.S.A. Today tomorrow, a company spokesman said.
   Separately, Visa U.S.A. signed likely Olympic basketball
stars including Earvin "Magic" Johnson, Michael Jordan, Larry
Bird and Patrick Ewing to appear in a new commercial,
breaking tonight during the winter games broadcast. The spot
combines action shots from National Basketball Association
games and the familiar taunt, "if you think they're tough,
wait 'til you see the guys at the ticket window if you don't
have your Visa card."
   ---
   Ad Notes. . . .
                                                                                                       

   NAME CHANGE: Chiat/Day/Mojo, Venice, Calif., said it would
rename its Perkins/Butler direct marketing unit to Chiat/Day
Direct Marketing Inc.
                                                                                                       

   WHO'S NEWS: Leo Burnett Co., Chicago, elected group
creative director Kenneth E. Krom an executive vice
president. During his 26-year career at Burnett, Mr. Krom,
age 64, has worked on the Marlboro cigarette account from
Philip Morris Cos. . . . McCaffrey  McCall senior vice
presidents Tunis Denise and Alan Herzog were named executive
vice presidents.
   (See related letter: "Letters to the Editor: Youth
Nonsmoking Ads Predated Camel Report" -- WSJ March 24, 1992)
   920220-0109