Apparel Firms
   That Sell `Basics'
   Expect Gains
   ---
   Russell, Fruit of the Loom,
   VF Get 4th-Period Boost
   From Jeans and T-Shirts
   ----
   By Teri Agins
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Buoyed by strong holiday reorders of jeans and fleecewear,
Russell Corp., Fruit of the Loom Inc. and VF Corp. are
expected to report higher fourth-quarter earnings, compared
with a year earlier. As stores sold out of these goods by
late November, some "suppliers were having a hard time
keeping up with demand," said Josie Esquivel, an analyst at
Shearson Lehman Hutton Inc., who follows 14 apparel and
textile stocks.
   "There was a very strong demand for jeans, sweats and
T-shirts over the last month, and companies making those
products may show better-than-expected earnings," said
Prudential Bache's Deborah Bronston. Over the past month, Ms.
Bronston raised her earnings estimates for Russell, Fruit of
the Loom and VF.
   Kellwood Corp. and Phillips-Van Heusen Corp.,
manufacturers of moderately priced goods, are also likely to
post fourth-quarter gains. Phillips-Van Heusen benefited from
especially brisk traffic at its factory outlet stores,
analysts said.
   But for many other apparel makers, there was little good
news as 1991 drew to a close. "The fourth quarter was tougher
than normal, as retailers ran more promotions and cut back on
orders and postponed taking deliveries," said Ed Johnson, an
analyst at Johnson-Redbook Services. Another drain on apparel
maker profitability: Retailers tapped them for markdown
allowances on goods that were put on sale to stimulate
holiday traffic.
   Marketers of higher-priced fashion merchandise, which
retailers were often forced to promote heavily, were hardest
hit. Analysts believe that Leslie Fay Cos. will report flat
to lower fourth-quarter profit.
   Crystal Brands Inc. is expected to post a sharp earnings
drop, hurt by weak sales from its costume-jewelry division.
Even industry powerhouse Liz Claiborne Inc. will report a
smaller-than-usual fourth-quarter earnings gain because of
lower sales in its menswear and cosmetics businesses.
   Still struggling with its retail division and the
prolonged slump in men's suits, Hartmarx Corp. will report
another fourth-quarter loss, analysts said.
   In late December, Gitano Group Inc. announced that it
expects to report a fourth-quarter net loss. Gitano said it
will take a $6.5 million restructuring charge in its results
to close some retail locations and reorganize its
manufacturing and distribution facilities.
   Business for apparel makers and retailers alike is likely
to remain difficult over the next few months, analysts say.
"The first quarter will be very similar to the fourth
quarter, as the consumers still don't have the confidence to
spend," said Ms. Bronston. "Consumers will be looking for
value in basic products."