Real Estate:
   Top Think Tank Does Some Rethinking
   ----
   By Jim Carlton
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Consider:
   -- The ULI bought a Washington mansion for its
headquarters near the top of the market in 1986, and then
unloaded it at auction five years later for a big loss --
without ever having moved in because the quarters were too
small.
   -- For as long as two years, the ULI had planned a spring
1992 conference in London, to broaden its appeal
internationally and add to its prestige and allure. After
disappointingly few members signed up and the organization
fell on hard times, the big confab was canceled, resulting in
a loss of about $60,000 in hotel deposits. The new conference
site will be in Houston, over a weekend so attendees can fly
cheaply.
   -- And days before the ULI's last conference in the fall,
Executive Vice President David Stahl fired nearly a quarter
of the staff, raising questions about morale and the ULI's
ability to maintain its respected research skills. Then,
recently, Mr. Stahl jumped ship to another nonprofit
organization, after having assured the institute's directors
he hoped to remain until retirement.
   By all accounts, the institute is still tops in its field,
and ULI members interviewed say the group's problems mirror
those of the industry it represents, which has been mired in
recession for five years and, aside from residential, shows
no sign of coming up for air anytime soon.
   James D. Klingbeil, president of the institute and
chairman of Klingbeil Co., a residential building company
based in Columbus, Ohio, acknowledges some past missteps,
saying: "We put our pants on one leg at a time like everyone
else."
   The institute, established in 1936, is a nonprofit
education and research organization that, it says, "promotes
responsible leadership in the use of land in order to enhance
our total environment." The institute initiates research on
emerging land-use trends and publishes the results. The group
recently produced a "white paper" on solutions for the credit
crunch that was widely distributed in Washington.
   As is the case with many other nonprofit real-estate
groups, the ULI has been struggling financially. Its
membership is down almost 10% from a 1990 peak of more than
16,500, and in the past fiscal year it wound up losing money
-- albeit only $20,000 -- for the first time in five years.
But the institute has maintained a fat reserve of around $10
million that cushions the blow. And it has access to a huge
pool of research from members, who represent the top echelon
of real estate and volunteer their time.
   The mansion deal, however, stands as an embarrassing
mistake for a premier planning organization. With membership
and staffing rising along with the rest of the real-estate
industry during the booming mid-80s, the ULI needed to
relocate from its crowded leased headquarters in Washington
to a facility that could support expansion. So five years
ago, the institute paid $3.8 million for a 1900-era,
four-story mansion blocks from the White House, featuring a
ballroom and sweeping circular staircase.
   It turned out, though, that the mansion, as big as it was,
was only two-thirds big enough for the institute's needs. So
the ULI embarked on a costly expansion plan that became mired
in bureaucracy and delays, leaving the mansion empty while
the ULI continued paying around $500,000 annually in interest
and carrying costs, says Mr. Stahl, who returned in 1987 for
a second stint at the ULI after heading some other
nonprofits. With Washington real estate tanking at the same
time, the ULI finally abandoned the mansion, selling it at
auction last year for $2.3 million. The total loss, including
carrying costs: $4 million, says Mr. Stahl.
   "It was a bad decision," says Roslyn Payne, a ULI member
and president of Jackson Street Partners Ltd., a real-estate
venture-capital firm in San Francisco. "Unfortunately, it
happened." Adds Stan Ross, ULI vice president-treasurer and
managing partner of Kenneth Leventhal  Co., Los Angeles:
"I'm not sure you can go back and second-guess the
{transaction} today. In the '80s, people bought."
   The ULI has relocated itself in a more spacious office
building in Washington.
   The London conference was to have been an international
showcase for the institute, drawing the world's top
real-estate executives in an effort to broaden the ULI's
domestic focus. Instead, it turned into a fiasco after only
about 500 ULI members registered against a target of 700 that
were needed for the endeavor to break even. Mr. Stahl says
many members declined to attend, saying it was expensive and
would look bad in a recession.
   The London conference was scrubbed until some unspecified
future date; "probably when the real-estate market recovers,"
Mr. Stahl says. Mr. Klingbeil, who personally called off the
conference, says, "I didn't think it was the intelligent
thing to do. Today, the intelligent thing is to be prudent."
   With membership down and sales of ULI publications off as
much as 25%, meanwhile, the institute was looking at a
projected shortfall of as much as $1 million in the current
fiscal year after losing the $20,000 last year. The institute
operates on a budget of about $11 million a year. To avoid a
big loss, Mr. Stahl says he fired 17 of 74 ULI staffers,
including at least five managers and department heads. For
the current fiscal year ending June 30, Mr. Klingbeil says
the institute will "definitely be above water," with about $3
million left over for reserves.
   "I believe the layoffs were shortsighted and will hurt the
institute's ability to conduct the programs and activities
that are essential to the members," says Jerry Church, a
department head who says he was given two days to clear out
after 26 years of service. Although ULI officials insist
volunteer members will pick up the slack, Betty O'Brien, a
fired manager, doubts they could. "The staff is there to
support the members," she says. "With a quarter of the staff
being cut, the benefits have to be less to the members."
   Mr. Klingbeil, however, says, "I don't think we were
cutting any muscle" in the firings.
   The other shoe dropped when Mr. Stahl resigned to take
over the nonprofit Young Presidents' Organization after, he
says, a search firm recruited him. "It was totally
unexpected," says Leanne Lachman, a ULI executive committee
member and managing director of Schroder Real Estate
Associates in New York.
   Mr. Stahl says he doesn't feel he left the institute in a
lurch.
   The institute quickly landed Richard Rosan, former head of
the Real Estate Board of New York, as Mr. Stahl's
replacement. On the job after only a few days, Mr. Rosan
speaks optimistically about the ULI's future, saying his
immediate goal is to boost membership. Mr. Klingbeil adds,
"I'm not trying to be a wild-eyed optimist, but I think we
are in very good shape," noting that the ULI's services are
more in demand than ever because the real-estate industry is
so depressed.