Coming Digital Age May Transform
   Your Living Room in Many Ways
   ----
   By G. Pascal Zachary
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
A test in Cerritos, Calif., offers a real-life glimpse of
the future. GTE Corp., the local telephone company, is piping
an array of services into the home of Jack and Pat Jakubik.
Video-phone. Home shopping and bill-paying. Movies-on-demand.
Cable TV. And, of course, telephone service.
   "You're talking about Buck Rogers in the 21st century,"
boasts Mr. Jakubik, "and yeah, we've got it."
   Since the experiment started a year and a half ago, the
Jakubiks have cut way back on video rentals, from an average
of 10 to one a week. Now, they select new movies from a
"menu" on the TV screen. The family also has grown accustomed
to speaking on the video-phone. The extroverted Mr. Jakubik
sometimes makes calls in his bathrobe, but son Bobby is still
a tad self-conscious. "I have to think about what I do in
front of the camera," he says.
   The family is less enamored of electronic shopping and
bill-paying. "I thought it would be really nice, but that
hasn't been true," Pat says. That's partly because the
command system isn't easy to use. The family manipulates
on-screen menus with a remote-control device, but working
through a complex transaction is tedious.
   The task of devising a more user-friendly digital system
has already begun. The stakes are enormous. Any company that
creates a software ritual -- a simple routine, shared widely
among gadgets -- stands to collect a tax on virtually
everything from pocket phones to fax machines to TV remote
controllers.
   Both Microsoft and Apple Computer Inc., which back rival
approaches to controlling a personal computer, are trying to
adapt their operating systems to consumer electronics goods.
In this area, Apple is allied with Sony Corp., and Microsoft
is believed to be courting Matsushita Electric Works Ltd.,
Sony's archrival in consumer electronics. A slew of
lesser-known companies as well as Sony, Matsushita and other
electronics manufacturers are working on ways to link
together big-screen monitors, loud speakers, cable-TV and
compact-disk players.
   While consumers can expect the problem of control to be
solved eventually, they may find, in the end, the cost of
plugging into the Digital World too steep. GTE, for instance,
relies on fiber-optic cable to deliver its services to the
Jakubik family. Futurists extol the virtues of fiber optics,
which consists of hair-thin strands of super-clear glass that
send messages by flashing a light on and off -- ones and
zeroes -- more than a billion times a second. A single strand
can transmit 16,000 conversations at once, compared with 24
conversations on copper wire, which today connects the homes
of virtually all consumers to the telephone network.
   The trouble with fiber? The price-tag on building a
nationwide network is put at anywhere from $100 billion to $1
trillion.