Politics  Policy -- Campaign '92:
   Primaries in the Midwest Seen as Test to Weed
   Regional Candidates From Democratic Field
   ----
   By David Shribman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
This showdown is all but certain to take place in the week
leading to the twin March 17 primaries in Illinois and in
Michigan. "We have to have it out somewhere," says former
Sen. Paul Tsongas of Massachusetts, winner of the New
Hampshire Primary.
   The character of this encounter, of course, won't be fully
determined until results are known from today's primaries in
Georgia, Maryland and Colorado and from the 11 states that
hold primaries and caucuses on Super Tuesday, a week from
today. But the likely consequences of the Midwestern
confrontation are clear already: Once it's completed, there
will probably be only two candidates in the field with a
serious shot at the nomination.
   "When the calendar was constructed this year, that day
became a focal point and perhaps the greatest showdown of the
campaign," says Thomas Devine, campaign manager for Sen. Bob
Kerrey of Nebraska.
   In a political season where candidates have had or are
expected to have strong regional showings -- Mr. Tsongas won
in New Hampshire, Mr. Kerrey in South Dakota, native son Sen.
Tom Harkin in Iowa, and Gov. Bill Clinton is expected to
dominate the South -- this is the first major contest where
there is no candidate competing on home turf.
   "The absence of a `home team' candidate makes for a fairly
even playing field, finally giving definition to the race,"
says Michael Binford, a political scientist at Georgia State
University. "The voters will finally have had time to have a
sense of the candidates, and this will be the first
meaningful test without the underbrush of minor candidates."
   This confrontation, moreover, occurs on one of the
traditional battlegrounds of U.S. politics, the industrial
heartland, and the stakes are higher than usual because the
diverse region suffers from many of the problems that plague
the U.S. economy: the crisis in manufacturing, the challenge
in international trade and the economic distress being felt
by the middle class. Illinois and Michigan, moreover, are
likely to be swing states in the general election in
November. "These are places you prove you can win the general
election," says Mr. Devine.
   And while commentators and analysts are focusing on the
Southern primaries, it is the Midwestern primaries that
already are dominating the energies of the strategists inside
the campaigns. The Clinton forces in New York, which holds an
important primary next month, haven't been able to mobilize
because the campaign's Little Rock, Ark., headquarters has
postponed funding and tactical decisions until after the
Illinois and Michigan primaries; Clinton supporters who want
to approach some of New York's variegated constituencies with
issues papers have been told to wait until after the
mid-March confrontation. Mr. Kerrey's strategists have
already scheduled the candidate to spend the day of Super
Tuesday itself in Michigan.
   Financial factors add pressure for a defining clash. The
candidates are experiencing major cash-flow troubles already,
and their treasuries are likely to be even leaner after Super
Tuesday.
   The Midwestern primaries may be the last opportunity to
stop Gov. Clinton, who has the best organization and the most
money, or, if Mr. Clinton falters in the South next week, it
could be the place where the new campaign takes shape.
   "This could be the arena for Clinton to put the nomination
away," says David Rohde, a University of Michigan political
scientist. "In that case, he'll have to come up here and make
his economic pitch, a fairly free-trade message that leaves
room for someone like Kerrey to make a more protectionist
pitch. So there could be a real economic battle here."
   Right now Gov. Clinton holds an advantage in Illinois in
that many of his top aides are well-connected political
insiders here, but that advantage is not insurmountable. The
presidential race is far less formed in Michigan, where high
unemployment, economic uneasiness and resentment over foreign
trade practices make the state a breeding ground for a
fractious political battle.
   "There's no mystery about what the issue will be. They're
going to have to talk about industrial decline," says Rep.
Sander Levin of Michigan, who hasn't endorsed any of the
Democratic contenders yet. "It won't be a about a single
industry, but about the broader issue of where America has
been going industrially. It's damn good for the confrontation
to be here because we have to confront these issues and do
more than talk in slogans."
   The political vacuum in Michigan is attractive because the
candidates who want to gain an advantage might be drawn there
rather than Illinois, where Mr. Clinton has his strength.
Strategists for Mr. Kerrey even toyed with diverting
financial resources to Michigan from the costly Super Tuesday
contests, gambling that an early presence in the state would
enhance their prospects.
   But the chance to ambush Mr. Clinton in Illinois, using a
message that could also generate support in Michigan, may be
as enticing. Political professionals know there isn't any
place in the country like Chicago for creating a media frenzy
without spending much, if any, money; former Vice President
Walter Mondale, for example, was able to take advantage of
miscues by Sen. Gary Hart and move up 19 percentage points in
five days in Illinois in 1984, overtaking the Coloradan and
putting himself in position to capture the nomination.
   This time, of course, running in Illinois means running
into Mr. Clinton's strength, which holds appeal for Mr.
Tsongas at least and perhaps for Mr. Kerrey as well.
   "The odds are against us in Illinois, so in some respects
that's more of an incentive," Mr. Tsongas said last week
after examining the political landscape here in Illinois.
"Part of the appeal of our campaign is that we're not
afraid."
   The Clinton camp clearly would like to have the
confrontation here. George Stephanopoulos, his deputy
campaign manager, says that both states are "very important,"
but acknowledges that Mr. Clinton has concentrated on
Illinois. "If you can play in Illinois, you can play across
the country," he says. "Whoever wins in Illinois is the
presumptive favorite for the nomination."
   The enthusiasm of many of the Clinton people in Illinois
appears extremely thin, though there is little enthusiasm for
anyone else, either.
   "Clinton rode through the state and picked up most of the
Democratic establishment," says Rep. Richard Durbin of
Illinois, who is supporting Sen. Kerrey. "But there's still
uncertainty about his candidacy."