Bush Bid to Halt SL `Double Dipping'
   Tax Break Is Slowed for Now by Bentsen
   ----
   By Jackie Calmes
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
"I made a decision that this was a more complicated thing,
and I wanted time to look into it," Sen. Bentsen said.
"Hopefully we can have time before the conference to work
something out."
   The issue could arise before that conference, at which
House and Senate negotiators will reconcile the differences
in their separate packages of tax cuts for middle-income
individuals and many businesses. The Senate first must pass
the Finance Committee's measure, and Sen. Howard Metzenbaum
might press for a ban in the debate that's set to begin next
Tuesday. "He's looking at that," said a spokeswoman for Sen.
Metzenbaum, a longtime critic of the government's SL
policies.
   Whatever happens, however, the overall tax-cut bill isn't
expected to become law because President Bush opposes House
and Senate Democrats' provisions to pay for it by raising
taxes on the wealthiest Americans. Still, action on the
double-dipping issue now would be an important gauge of
prospects in Congress for the administration's proposal.
   The issue dates to the furor over deals the government
hurriedly made with investors in 1988 to take over insolvent
thrifts. In a report a year ago, the Treasury urged an end to
thrift owners' tax deductions for compensated losses "in
order to protect the general taxpayer." Secretary Nicholas
Brady urged legislation banning the practice to avoid "years
of litigation."
   According to the Resolution Trust Corp., which is
overseeing the thrift bailout, the government paid $8.9
billion through last September to cover new owners' losses on
their real estate assets and loans; an additional $8.4
billion more is projected.
   Among those with most at stake are Fort Worth billionaire
Robert Bass, lead investor in California-based American
Savings Bank; New York financier Ronald Perelman, of First
Gibraltar Bank in Texas; former Salomon Brothers' executive
Lewis Ranieri, chairman of United Savings Association of
Texas, whose lobbyist is former Bentsen aide James Gould; and
AmWest Savings Association of Texas.
   Because the Treasury considered its report last year "fair
warning" to thrift owners, its date -- March 4, 1991 -- was
chosen as the proposed cut-off for the deductions in the Bush
and House provisions. But the owners have cried foul, arguing
that the government is reneging on a deal.
   In fact, the tax breaks once were expressly sanctioned and
in some cases encouraged by, among others, the Treasury, the
Internal Revenue Service, Congress's Joint Committee on
Taxation, and financial regulators. But critics at the
Treasury and in Congress say the buyers couldn't rely on such
non-binding assurances. And they say the owners have abused
their tax advantages by undervaluing assets or selling them
at low prices to maximize their losses and thus get a bigger
deduction.
   When Democrats on the House Ways and Means Committee met
behind closed doors last month to write their tax package,
Texas Rep. J.J. Pickle unsuccessfully sought an amendment to
exempt the Bass group; it is the one thrift owner that has
what's called a closing agreement with the IRS approving the
deductions. Other Texans on the panel, Democrat Mike Andrews
and senior Republican William Archer, have come to the
owners' defense. But Reps. Byron Dorgan of North Dakota and
Frank Guarini of New Jersey have vigorously opposed the
double-dipping.
   "It's a basic principle of tax policy that you shouldn't
be able to take a deduction when you haven't lost any money,"
Rep. Guarini said. "The only fly in the ointment is the Texas
delegation, and unfortunately a key member of that delegation
is the chairman of the Finance Committee, who has a lot to
say about this."