Who's News:
   Bush Picks Goldberg for Treasury Post;
   Peterson to Take Over as Chief of IRS
   ----
   By John Harwood
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
If confirmed by the Senate, Mr. Goldberg, 44 years old,
would become the Treasury Department's chief contact with
Capitol Hill during negotiations on tax legislation this
year. As IRS commissioner, he was credited with maintaining
good relations with Congress and the public and is expected
to have little trouble winning confirmation.
   Ms. Peterson, 50, is currently assistant attorney general
for the tax division at the Justice Department. Previously,
she practiced law at the Washington firm Steptoe  Johnson.
The nominations of Mr. Goldberg and Ms. Peterson were
expected.
   Mr. Moore, 52, was a six-term member of Congress from
Louisiana before losing a U.S. Senate race in 1986. He has
been a high-profile advocate for the Energy Department's
policies on Capitol Hill -- including the so-far failed
efforts to win approval of a national energy strategy -- and
within the oil and gas industry. He also has made frequent
trips overseas to push U.S. energy exports.
   It was on such a trip recently, however, that Mr. Moore
angered domestic oil and gas producers when it was reported
that he expressed appreciation for Saudi Arabia's high
oil-production levels. He subsequently explained that he had
only been speaking of the Saudis' long-term policies toward
the U.S.
   Mr. Moore will succeed Andrew Card, who was deputy under
Mr. Skinner's predecessor, John Sununu. Last week, President
Bush tapped Mr. Card for Mr. Skinner's previous job as
transportation secretary.
   Unlike Mr. Card, who focused on day-to-day administration
of the White House, Mr. Moore is expected to have a strong
hand in congressional relations as the administration pushes
its economic policies this year. He also brings solid
political experience as the White House gears up for a tough
campaign season.
   In an interview yesterday on ABC News's "This Week with
David Brinkley," Mr. Skinner said he has "about finalized"
his reorganization of the White House staff. Mr. Skinner
still is expected to name another deputy to coordinate
domestic policy, and he identified Republican National
Committee Chairman Clayton Yeutter as a possible choice for
the job. Others who have been discussed include former
Republican Rep. Bill Frenzel of Minnesota, and Robert
Zoellick, the undersecretary of state for economic and
business affairs, though Mr. Zoellick isn't considered a
likely candidate.
   In the ABC interview, Mr. Skinner denied that adding
another top domestic policy official was intended to reduce
the influence of Budget Director Richard Darman. He
reiterated that one of his major concerns was improving White
House communications, and said Press Secretary Marlin
Fitzwater has agreed to take on overall supervision of the
administration's public message. While remaining Mr. Bush's
principal spokesman, Mr. Fitzwater will also carry the title
of counselor to the president.
   ---
   Rose Gutfeld contributed to this article.