International -- Foreign Insight:
   Germany Is Seeking to Ease Concerns
   In U.S. Over Its Reliability as an Ally
   ----
   By Frederick Kempe
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Concerns about the relationship were fed by a recent
opinion poll indicating that 57% of Germans favor the removal
of U.S. troops from their territory and that 70% favor
removal of nuclear weapons. The report, commissioned by the
Rand Corp., a U.S. think tank, also indicated Germans
overwhelmingly favor continued membership in the North
Atlantic Treaty Organization and are positively inclined
toward the U.S.
   German officials said the most important effort to inject
more life into relations with the U.S. would come at the
World Economic Summit in Munich in July. Chancellor Helmut
Kohl, as this year's chairman of the Group of Seven
industrial nations, wants to press the European Community,
over French objections, to reduce farm protectionism and save
international trade talks from failure.
   Mr. Kohl's efforts signal the Chancellery's support for
President Bush in an election year where protectionism is a
major theme. German officials credit Mr. Bush for
Washington's support for their unification. "Kohl knows that
he can't send Bush home from the summit in Munich
empty-handed only weeks before November elections," said one
senior government adviser. "We have to make clear in Munich
that we have solved this problem with the French so that Bush
can go home and declare victory."
   Indeed, Bonn's G-7 chairmanship puts it in the
uncomfortable position of choosing between conflicting French
and U.S. approaches at a time when Mr. Bush and French
President Francois Mitterrand face political challenges at
home. France has been the most reluctant of the EC members to
reduce state subsidies and protection for domestic farmers.
   "We aren't deciding between Paris and Washington," says
one Bonn policy maker. "It is in European interests that
trade talks not fail. If that means a European government
falls, we are sorry. But if the U.S. goes away from Munich
saying to hell with the Europeans, or if Bush loses the
elections and a protectionist president is elected, that is
far worse for European interests" than Mr. Mitterrand's
political demise.
   Underlying the German approach toward Washington in 1992
is a belief that Washington will increasingly be the only
consistent friend on which a more influential Germany can
rely. The British and French are wary of enhanced German
influence and economic might, but Washington views Bonn as
the most effective representative for its concerns in
European councils and its most important global partner among
Europeans.
   "We can't turn to the French and it is too obvious when we
turn to the British," said one U.S. official, "but we have
found the Germans to be willing to honestly represent our
concerns and sometimes intervene on our behalf on the
European stage."
   German and U.S. officials agree relations have remained
good despite differences regarding the Gulf War and
Yugoslavia, which senior Washington officials generally
attribute to Germany's growing pains. Frictions over
Germany's high interest rates, which U.S. critics say have
slowed world economic growth, are also likely to subside in
coming months when the Bundesbank is likely to lower rates.
But the closeness that characterized the relationship during
the heady days of German unification in 1990 has been lost.
   U.S. experts also cite the new Rand poll as evidence that
German foreign policy leadership is lacking. The survey,
taken in late 1991 by Infratest Burke-Berlin, showed that
Germans had gained in self-confidence but still lacked any
clear direction regarding how to use their increased global
influence. The poll showed that 59% of Germans wanted their
country to assume greater international responsibility, an
increase of more than eight percentage points in one year.
Some 64% believed Germany would play a greater world role by
the year 2000.
   But Germans were clear that role shouldn't include troop
involvement in interventions sanctioned by the United
Nations, such as in the Gulf War. When asked whether the
international community had the right to intervene when human
rights and international law were violated within a given
country, 56% said no. In short, Germans are more comfortable
with a relationship with the U.S. like the one exhibited in
the Gulf War, where they help pay the bills but U.S. troops
fight.
   The G-7 meeting, say German officials, will be the climax
in a series of planned explicit signals that Bonn hopes to
send to Washington in coming weeks. Mr. Kohl has asked the
general-secretary of the Christian Democratic party, Volker
Ruehe, to shift his emphasis from repairing eastern Germany
to improving links to Washington. He will travel there in
early March. Even Foreign Minister Hans Dietrich Genscher,
who privately opposed U.S. policies in the Gulf and who led
Germany's unilateral actions regarding Yugoslavia, has
entered the campaign.
   In a column that appeared in the large-circulation Welt am
Sonntag newspaper this week, Mr. Genscher recalled America's
Berlin airlift that saved the city in one of the Cold War's
first crises and he also reminded readers of the
"indispensable" role played by the U.S. in the country's
unification. But a German official said the initiative for
the article came from Mr. Genscher's advisers, who sensed
potential problems with Washington following Germany's
unilateral decision to recognize Croatia and Slovenia, and
not from the foreign minister himself.