ENTERPRISE
   ----
   By Michael Selz
STORE merchants and street vendors are battling around the
country, and the vendors are largely losing.
   With the recession and increased immigration in recent
years, thousands of people have taken to the streets to make
a living as vendors. They sell everything from food to
furniture to fashion, often in direct competition with nearby
stores.
   The legal tide appears to be clearly running against the
vendors. Cities ranging from New York to Santa Ana, Calif.,
have recently enacted more restrictive vendor rules. The New
York state Legislature passed a law restricting vending on
Manhattan's Fifth Avenue, where dozens of vendors had set up
operation. In return, Fifth Avenue merchants agreed to offer
employment and job-training funds for some of the displaced
vendors, says a spokesman for state Sen. Roy Goodman, who
sponsored the legislation.
   Elizabeth, N.J., in December adopted an ordinance that,
among other things, requires a vendor to be at least 1,500
feet from a store selling the same type of merchandise.
Merchants "who have to pay rent" were complaining they
couldn't compete with a "guy who was just opening the
tailgate of his car," says city council president Angelo
Paternoster.
   In Santa Ana, a "proliferation of pushcarts" drove the
city last summer to start licensing vendors and limiting
their numbers, says city attorney Edward Cooper.
   One exception to this trend is Los Angeles, which last
month finally legalized sidewalk vending after a long
lobbying campaign by vendors and immigrant-rights groups. But
the vending is limited to certain districts, and some vendor
advocates worry that the measure doesn't offer "enough
opportunities for illegal vendors to go straight," says a
spokeswoman for councilman Michael Woo, a prime mover in the
legalization effort.
                                                                                                       

   Russians Aim to Import
   Business Education
                                                                                                       

   AT Manhattanville College, the 10-week course on starting
a business attracts all kinds of people. But never before was
one of the students the wife of a high-ranking Russian
diplomat.
   Natasha Lozinskiy, whose husband, Valentin, is Russia's
first deputy permanent representative to the United Nations,
started taking classes Jan. 13 at the school's
Entrepreneurial Center in Purchase, N.Y. Among the things
Mrs. Lozinskiy has studied so far are how to raise financing,
price products and promote sales.
   After boning up on entrepreneurship, Mrs. Lozinskiy says
she plans to travel this summer to Russia with Marge Lovero,
the center's director, and a group of U.S. entrepreneurs to
relate what she has learned to other Russians. Organized by
the Volunteer Development Council for U.N. Delegations, the
participants plan to visit Moscow and three other cities
where they hope to create Russian-staffed entrepreneurial
centers.
   "The transformation from a centrally planned economy to a
free economy has never been done before, so we are in need of
help," Mrs. Lozinskiy says.
   As to whether she will assist the transformation by
starting a business of her own, Mrs. Lozinskiy says that for
the first time, "I can imagine doing it."
                                                                                                       

   Singin' in the Rain
   To Get the Message Out
                                                                                                       

   TO WEATHER the economic slump, some small businesses are
stopping at nothing to increase sales.
   Mal Silverman's six-month-old Dial-A-Mattress franchise in
Chicago will ship anywhere in the metropolitan area within
two hours. To publicize that policy, he delivered a mattress
to a field where a local public-television program's
on-the-air paint-gun battle was wrapping up -- just in time
for the exhausted host to collapse onto the bedding.
   The day after the show was broadcast "was the biggest
selling day we've ever had," Mr. Silverman says. Barq's Root
Beer, a soft-drink maker in New Orleans, sent marketing head
Rick Hill to Moscow last month to prepare for the company's
"Soviet Union Going Out of Business Sale," planned for this
summer.
   "We'll have Gorbachev saying, `We lost our lease and
everything must go,'" says Mr. Hill, who bought stamps, pens,
medals, key chains and other memorabilia that Barq's will
give away to buyers of its root beer.
   "It's too difficult to compete on price in a recession,"
Mr. Hill says. "It's more important to find ways to increase
the value of your brand." With the Soviet promotion, he says,
"if you buy Barq's, you're buying a piece of history."
   To reach customers in Europe, Laser Plot, an Auburn,
Mass., maker of electronic navigation equipment, hitched a
ride to the Mediterranean aboard a ship used to train
merchant seamen. In exchange for a $500 donation and the use
of Laser Plot equipment, the Massachusetts Maritime Academy
agreed to let the company install one of its systems on the
T/S Patriot State. In conjunction with a training cruise for
academy cadets, the 547-foot vessel sailed to ports in Italy
and Spain where Laser Plot had arranged to demonstrate its
equipment for potential customers.
   Says Bob McKillop, a Laser Plot technician: "It was a
great opportunity for our products to get some exposure
overseas."
                                                                                                       

   Odds and Ends
                                                                                                       

   SMALL businesses plan virtually no increase in capital
spending this year, according to a December survey of 406
companies by Cicco  Associates, a Murrysville, Pa., research
firm. . . . Nearly half of 127 franchisers contacted last
month by Francorp, a consulting firm in Olympia Fields, Ill.,
say former corporate executives account for 25% of new
franchise applications.