U.S., Russia Will Explore Joint System
   For Early Warning of Missile Attacks
   ----
   By Robert S. Greenberger
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
At a news conference yesterday, Mr. Baker and Russian
Foreign Minister Andrei Kozyrev stressed that their nations
are concerned mainly with removing debris from the Cold War
now that they have moved away from their former adversarial
relationship. Concerning arms control issues, "both sides
share politically the same view, but both sides, at the same
time, are facing some technical difficulties," Mr. Kozyrev
said. "I think that is the same answer that I would give
you," Mr. Baker responded.
   The early-warning ballistic missile center, Mr. Baker
explained, would use various technologies and draw on
resources such as satellites to "integrate and display
ballistic missile early-warning information for
participants." A U.S. official said that in addition to the
U.S. and Russia, other former Soviet republics, members of
the North Atlantic Treaty Organization and East European
nations could plug into such a system at the outset.
   The U.S. official said that Russian officials are
"extremely enthusiastic" about the joint project, which could
provide some measure of security amid worsening missile
proliferation. Russia would be more vulnerable to missile
attacks than the U.S. because it would be within range of
potentially hostile states near its border, the official
said.
   Despite talk about cooperation, there will be hard
bargaining ahead between the U.S. and Russia on reducing
offensive nuclear weapons. At yesterday's session, the two
nations made little progress in closing the gap between their
separate proposals for reducing long-range arms. Both sides
favor going beyond reductions they agreed upon last year.
President Bush has suggested cutting each side's strategic
nuclear arsenals to about 4,500 warheads; Russian President
Boris Yeltsin wants to cut back to about 2,500 nuclear
warheads each.
   The overall level would have important implications for
the mix of missiles on each side. President Bush's proposal
would eliminate multi-warhead, land-based missiles, forcing
the Russians to make deep cuts in the backbone of their
nuclear arsenal. Mr. Yeltsin's lower figure would force the
U.S. to cut more deeply than it would like into
submarine-based missiles, where it currently has an
advantage.
   Mr. Baker shot down a Russian proposal that the two sides
stop targeting their long-range missiles at each other. Mr.
Yeltsin several weeks ago pledged to do just that. But rather
than reciprocate, Mr. Baker said yesterday that Mr. Yeltsin
now agrees with him that compliance with such an arrangement
couldn't be verified and that any re-targeting could be
reversed very quickly. "I told him that I support the spirit
of the proposal as a future goal," Mr. Baker said.
   Messrs. Baker and Kozyrev said both nations have agreed to
streamline and accelerate the negotiating process. The former
Soviet Union needs to cut the costs of maintaining its vast
military machine quickly. The U.S. would like to lock in
agreements as soon as possible, since it's unclear how long
democratic reformers will remain in office in the former
Soviet Union. But the U.S. also recognizes that it must be
flexible despite Russia's current weakness; otherwise, Mr.
Yeltsin may encounter resistance to a new arms-reduction pact
from his resentful military.
   "We have decided to forego protracted negotiations, which
sometimes only substituted for decision-making," Mr. Kozyrev
said. And Mr. Baker said, "Hopefully, we are beyond the point
of having to sit down with huge numbers (of specialists) on
each side of the table and spend endless months and years
haggling about the tiniest little details."
   Separately, the top military leader of the commonwealth of
former Soviet republics conceded that the republics' unified
army is doomed to fall apart.
   "In the end, our army will split into national armies,"
Marshall Yevgeny Shaposhnikov, commander in chief of the
joint armed forces of the Commonwealth of Independent States,
told reporters.
   The issue of republican armies has been especially
divisive. At a commonwealth summit last week in Minsk,
Belarus, only eight of the 11 member states agreed to form a
joint force to assume the conventional-warfare tasks of the
former Soviet Union's Red Army. Ukraine, Moldova and
Azerbaijian, which want to maintain separate armies, refused
to sign the pact.
   ---
   Adi Ignatius contributed to this article.