Business World:
   Programming for Professors,
   If Cable Survives the Midterm
   ----
   By Tim W. Ferguson
If anyone can market dry logic, it is this precise,
patient man. In 1980, he produced "Free to Choose," the PBS
series that brought Milton Friedman and economics to millions
in televisionland. That project culminated Mr. Chitester's 16
years as president of the Erie, Pa., PBS station. It was
followed by similar, if less standout, programs with Mr.
Friedman, Walter Williams and media personalities.
   Now he has in mind "to illuminate the primary `schools of
thought' about important issues. We will show the process of
thinking through ideas, the search for truth as carried out
by scientists and scholars."
   From inside and outside the cable industry come warnings
that the wherewithal to dabble in marginal stuff such as the
Idea Channel or pay for more expensive sports and
entertainment networks is imperiled in Washington.
Legislation that easily passed the Senate on Jan. 31 would
slap rate ceilings back on most local system operators.
   Cable was freed to set its own rates in the mid-1980s, and
since then the monopoly franchises have bumped up their
prices rapidly. They've also broadened the array of offerings
and claim that adds up to better value. They've continued to
sign up more households, which is a measure of something.
   The cable industry is one of the most fiercely
anti-competitive in America. It has a love-hate relationship
with municipal governments, which squeeze operators for
favors but also protect them from upstarts on their turf. Big
cable companies also try to corner the market on desirable
programming so that no wireless or other type of system that
might get past city hall can get a toehold in their markets.
   Yet, as outrageous as rates are in some areas, it does
take bucks to bring about the CNNs, the Discovery channels,
the Black Entertainment Televisions and Mr. Chitester's
bright Idea. The industry as a whole is in debt up to its
camera lenses, so any cap on fees could shutter some
producers pronto.
   Technology is also at stake. A good cable system sinks
considerable capital into better transmission, including
fiber-optic lines that may soon permit not only scores more
channels, but interactive capability. Long-term financing
could exceed the acumen of local rate-setters who can barely
understand an operating budget. "There's no way some
councilman in Oshkosh, Wis., is going to know about rate of
return," says a Northeast cable operator, who's gearing for
reregulation by declining to be named. (Apologies in advance
to Oshkosh, which is probably run by MBAs.)
   One advance due soon is "video compression," a technology
to increase the number of cable channels by a multiple of
four or more. Only when the selections get above 200 or so
will operators find it worth going after tiny niche
audiences.
   The Idea Channel's prime market is to be those curious
about concepts in formation over a range of disciplines.
Individual thinkers or their affiliate institutions will
supply the video gratis, if the plan works, while a skeletal
staff in Cleveland selects and schedules material. It would
be a CSPAN without the politicians and policy wonks.
   Especially early on, there may be a lot of conference
tapes, but Mr. Chitester wants to get beyond the lecterns,
daises and questions from the floor. He'd like face-to-face
expert exchanges, ideally in a studio, or solo expositions
prompted by an off- screen questioner.
   Opposites William F. Buckley and Bill Moyers have used
public television to share and test ideas, informally but
with rigor. Mr. Chitester seeks that tone, but not a
moderator -- just primary intellectuals, undiluted. His
description is of something like lunch at the faculty club
without the tinkling glasses and the rivalrous rancor.
   Mr. Chitester wants to have four hours a week ready by the
start of October, and says agreements with operators so far
include a prized outlet, Continental Cablevision in
Cambridge, Mass. That system will supply him with product
from its "local-origination" channel for his national feed,
he says, and for a while he'll air on access slots as well. A
channel of his own is a couple of years off, he projects.
   Meantime, he intends to stir interest in academic centers.
"I have to go into these communities and let them know this
service is available and it meets their needs. I have to try
to build a constituency -- you might call it a pressure group
-- to request what I have to offer." MTV's current fight to
get aired on Sammons cable systems is a model of "guerrilla
tactics," he says.
   He has at least one potent ally. Members of the Rigas
family, which runs Adelphia Communications, a cable
franchiser in the East and Midwest, hold a minor share in the
Idea Channel and "plan to help" its precursor get air time on
their outlets, Mike Rigas said.
   Mr. Chitester's past public-affairs programs have sounded
classical-liberal themes. He says such beliefs "have been
getting short shrift in the media" and that further exposure
of them is one purpose of the Idea Channel. But he adds it
will have "no politically correct point of view." Opposing
outlooks, such as those of University of Texas Prof. James
Galbraith, are to be featured, and not just as foils.
   Mr. Chitester is an economizer by nature, and his business
plan shows total expenses of not even $1.2 million by 1996,
when he hopes to be operational 24 hours a day. Even on such
a shoestring, the Idea Channel is a precarious concept in a
volatile business. And the founder, not a rich man, holds
only a 10% stake, a tenuous basis for control come success or
setbacks.
   Much larger programmers may "go dark" before the battle
over cable's future is settled in government and in the
marketplace. Everybody, it seems, is angling for an advantage
in the frenzy of change that new technology will bring.
Alliances and laws spell power. Mr. Chitester says he wants
none of that, just an audience and an uplink. Those occupied
with trying to box in the competition "fail to recognize a
fundamental principle: The market works," he avers. Legal
strategy "only adds distortions and costs. It will not change
the ultimate outcome."