PEOPLE PATTERNS
   ----
   Compiled by the staff of American Demographics magazine
PEOPLE with little education are far more likely to have
bad health, a government study documents.
   The correlation has long been suggested, but a recent
report from the National Center for Health Statistics,
drawing on a national survey of almost 50,000 households and
125,000 people, provides the most extensive picture yet. The
study also found that the correlation between education and
health transcends income levels.
   Almost one in four people with less than a high school
education say they are in poor or only fair health, compared
with a mere 3% of college graduates, the study found.
   Detailed illness figures bear out these self-assessments.
Better than one in four non-high-school graduates are limited
in daily activity due to some chronic condition, compared
with only one in 13 college graduates. Not quite 18% of those
who hadn't finished high school are hospitalized each year,
nearly 2 1/2 times the rate for college graduates, and they
averaged 3 1/2 times more days spent in hospitals.
   Those who didn't finish high school were over 2 1/2 times
more likely to have arthritis or diabetes than were people
with a high school diploma or better. They were also more
than twice as apt to have heart trouble, five times more
subject to emphysema, twice as likely to have high blood
pressure or ulcers, and twice as liable to have visual or
hearing impairments.
   Many previous studies have also correlated health with
income, but the National Center survey showed that even among
people in the same income group, those with less education
were much less healthy than the bettereducated ones and made
considerably greater use of medical services.
                                                                                                       

   Weight Weighs Heavy
   On Female Teens
                                                                                                       

   FEMALE adolescents worry a lot more about being overweight
than do their male counterparts, a federal agency finds.
   The Centers for Disease Control asked more than 11,600
representative high school students whether they considered
themselves too fat, too thin or about right. More than a
third of the girls thought they were overweight, compared
with fewer than 15% of the boys. Only 7% of the girls
regarded themselves as underweight, while more than double
that proportion of boys did. Among both sexes, black students
were far less apt than whites or Hispanics to consider
themselves too heavy.
   The survey found that 43.6% of the female students,
including more than one-fourth of those who considered
themselves the right weight, were currently trying to lose
pounds, more than triple the male rate. Female students were
"significantly more likely" than the males to be skipping
meals, taking diet pills or inducing vomiting to lose weight.
   CDC officials warn that such weight-loss behavior among
teens can have "serious long-term adverse health
consequences," such as a greater likelihood of obesity in
adulthood, nutritional deficiencies, a slower rate of growth,
and delays in pubertal and psychosocial development.
                                                                                                       

   Kids Give the Lowdown
   On Parents' School Role
                                                                                                       

   PARENTS' involvement in their children's schooling falls
far short of what's needed, the government asserts.
   Wide discrepancies exist between what parents say they do
and what their children say the parents do, according to the
Department of Education's Office of Educational Research and
Improvement.
   A landmark survey of 25,000 eighth-graders and their
parents found that almost four out of five parents said they
regularly discussed schoolwork with their children. Yet
nearly two-thirds of the eighth-graders said their parents
"rarely" or "never" talked to them about classes and school
programs.
   Two-thirds of the parents claimed to enforce limits on
television viewing, but two-thirds of the students said the
parents didn't. In fact, the study notes, the eighth-graders
averaged 21.4 hours a week watching television, nearly four
times the 5.6 hours they spent on homework.
   The school itself was unknown territory to most of the
parents. Only half had attended a school meeting during the
academic year, fewer than a third had visited their
children's classes, and two-thirds said they had never talked
to school officials about their kids' programs and work.
   In a separate analysis of the same data, a University of
Chicago team of education researchers found that students
whose parents talked with them about schoolwork usually got
noticeably higher grades. TV restrictions at home also tended
to boost grades.
   "The burden of education should not be teachers' and
schools' alone," the Education Department study says.
"Parents have a major role to play."
                                                                                                       

   Odds and Ends
                                                                                                       

   SUNDAY brunch isn't just for yuppies, the Roper
Organization says. Its surveys indicate that one in seven
Americans goes out for breakfast or brunch on any particular
Sunday, with middle-income men and women more inclined to do
so than the more affluent, and with the over-60 set more
brunch-prone than younger people. . . . A tad behind the
news: The U.S. Census Bureau and the Soviet State Committee
on Statistics have just jointly published a compilation of
key economic and demographic indicators for the two
countries. Admitting to having been overtaken by events,
Census Bureau officials say similar data is now being
compiled for the individual republics.