British Futures, Options Markets
   Get New Home and Will Merge
   ----
   By Neil Behrmann
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
With about 40% of the volume of the Chicago Mercantile
Exchange, Liffe is the leading exchange in Europe. It traded
a record 5.3 million futures and options contracts, and the
open interest at the end of last month was 2.1 million
contracts.
   Other European exchanges, however, are expanding rapidly.
While Liffe had a volume of 39 million contracts last year,
the rapidly growing Matif exchange in Paris had 37 million
financial and futures contracts. Frankfurt's Deutsche
Terminbourse, an automated dealing market, is also catching
up quickly. Volume surged 126% last year to 15.4 million
contracts. Its trading share is currently 30% of the market,
up from 7% in late 1990, said Jorge Franke, a Terminbourse
chief executive officer.
   Liffe's most active contracts are the British pound and
the mark, bond and short-term interest rate futures and
options. Other European contracts are Euroswiss, Italian and
European currency unit bonds. The exchange plans to launch a
three-month Eurolira contract in May. Liffe also trades
Eurodollars, U.S. Treasury and Japanese government bonds.
   After floor trading closes, dealers also trade contracts
on an automated trading system, which accounts for 3% to 5%
of total volume.
   The new floor cost #31 million ($56 million). The
facilities are designed to accommodate as many as 3,000
traders and staff.
   While the strength of the London exchange lies in its
financial futures and options trading, dealers say there are
serious weaknesses in equity options dealings.
   The volume of traded options fell to seven million
contracts in 1991 from 12 million in 1987 as individual and
institutional investors withdrew from a market that is mainly
illiquid. Spreads between bid and offer prices of leading
London equity options can range from 10% to 35%.
   Liffe was forced to postpone its merger with the options
exchange to March from the end of January because of worries
that major London securities houses wouldn't make markets in
equity options.
   Once the two markets merge, business is likely to improve,
says Tony de Guingand, managing director of the London Traded
Options Market. New members and dealers from the more active
Liffe trading pits will make dealing more competitive. New
trading procedures, forcing market makers to meet orders,
will also boost trading.
   The exchange is above the site of a first century Roman
governor's palace alongside the Thames river. By far the
biggest in Europe, the dealing arena is more than double the
space of Liffe's old trading floor. But it is still smaller
than the Chicago Mercantile Exchange, the world's biggest
financial futures market.