Raymond James
   To Win Sales Staff
   With Acquisition
   ----
   By Howard Hoffman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Unable to recruit a sufficient number of experienced
brokers, Raymond James agreed to spend $40 million for Stifel
Nicolaus and get 375 brokers in the bargain. Chairman Thomas
James said the proposed acquisition seemed the best way for
his firm, based in St. Petersburg, Fla., to expand its retail
brokerage franchise at a time when few brokers want to send
clients change-of-address cards.
   "Salesmen are less likely to change affiliations in
markets that are good," Mr. James said.
   The securities industry had its best year ever in 1991.
Revenues were around $60 billion, and pre-tax profits were
estimated at more than $5.8 billion. That brisk pace seems to
be continuing in 1992. And every indication is that brokers
are reaping lucrative rewards from huge commissions they've
been generating.
   Success, however, is not without problems. As Raymond
James and other regional brokerage firms are discovering, it
can be hard to capture new accounts when business is good.
   "It's tough to get people to go to that greener pasture
when the pasture they're sitting in is pretty green," said
Thomas McDonald, director of sales development at McDonald 
Co. Securities, Cleveland.
   Regional securities firms draw much of their sales force
from staffs of other firms.
   Rather than risk that an inexperienced candidate might not
catch on to the particulars of stocks and bonds, the firms
lure new brokers from national firms. Those brokers arrive at
regional firms with a record of success and a book of clients
to be tapped immediately. The new firm gets new business
without training costs.
   At Raymond James, for instance, about 105 new brokers
joined the firm last yearhalf of those came from other firms.
Mr. James said Raymond James couldn't expect to recruit such
a crop in 1992.
   Part of the reason lies with more commission income;
another is the firms' increasing use of deferred compensation
packages to keep brokers at their desks.
   Merrill Lynch, Smith Barney, Shearson Lehman Brothers,
PaineWebber and others reportedly are witholding some portion
of their brokers' pay as a ransom against defection. If the
broker stays with the firm for the prescribed time (for
instance, four years at Smith Barney), the broker can collect
the deferred income. If he or she leaves early, that part of
earnings is forfeited.
   Industry executives say the promise of a pot of gold at
some definite future point seems to be one reason why some
brokers aren't changing jobs.
   So Raymond James turned to Stifel Nicolaus to expand its
retail presence. Coming off a year ended Sept. 27, when it
earned a record $26.7 million, and a fiscal first quarter
ended Dec. 27, when it earned $8.4 million, Raymond James
opted to supplement its 1,700-broker sales force with 375
brokers from Stifel Nicolaus. In the process, Raymond James
extends its presence deep into the Midwest.
   Other firms are coping in other ways. At Morgan Keegan
Inc., Memphis, the emphasis is shifting from hiring
experienced brokers to hiring trained salespeople.
   Jock Whisnant, first vice president for training at Morgan
Keegan, said his firm has found an abundance of good
salespeople willing to learn a new business. Unlike those
fresh out of college, these candidates often have only one
hurdle to cross: They already can sell; they need only prove
they can learn the business.