Letters to the Editor:
   Secret of Tsongas's Success? Think
Leadership requires a vision, the identification of major
problems or goals and a coherent approach to attack these
problems, and the ability to communicate that vision.
Management, by contrast, involves the ability to organize and
successfully complete a series of tasks. Both leadership and
management must work in tandem if a president (whether of a
country or a company) is to be successful.
   In the Gulf War, George Bush showed he could be a superb
manager when properly motivated. But most of the time,
particularly on domestic issues, he gives the impression of
having little sense of vision as to the direction the country
should take. By contrast, Mr. Tsongas has convinced many
people that he has seriously thought about what he would do
if elected.
   Today the election process has become so complex and
time-consuming that candidates must be full-time
professionals at getting elected and often have no time,
energy or inclination to think about governing. As a result,
we have people in leadership who haven't the foggiest idea of
what they want to do, beyond getting elected. (One could
imagine what would happen to industry if getting a job were
so complex that management education consisted primarily of
job-interviewing and resume-writing.)
   Lacking a vision, they look to public-opinion polls for
guidance. Or they attempt to cobble together a majority by
appealing to the hot buttons of a sufficient number of
interest groups.
   In having a compass, Mr. Tsongas is refreshing whether or
not one agrees with each of his particular positions. The
real test for him will come if it looks as if he could win
the nomination. Then the challenge will be to resist
well-meaning advice to modify one or another position to try
to appeal to particular interest groups.
   Bruce R. Thompson
   Professor, Graduate Studies
   Milwaukee School of Engineering
   Milwaukee
   ---
   Mr. Gigot's profile of Paul Tsongas is generally on
target, but his characterization of Mr. Tsongas as a
previously "orthodox tax-and-spend liberal," now reformed,
suggests Mr. Tsongas has just changed with the times, in
search of political popularity. In fact, his thoughtful,
balanced approach to business and government is longstanding,
preceding even his days in the Senate.
   In 1975, when Mr. Tsongas was a first-term congressman, I
worked for him as a young summer intern, drafting responses
to constituent letters. Mr. Tsongas had received a letter
arguing in favor of additional regulation of residential
real-estate transactions. As a new intern, I assumed Mr.
Tsongas must be in favor of what appeared to be pro-consumer,
anti-business legislation and quickly drafted a letter
agreeing with the constituent. To my surprise, before signing
the letter Mr. Tsongas did a little research of his own,
including calling a local real-estate broker back home, and
determined that the legislation might help a small fraction
of home buyers, but would add a great deal of unnecessary
costs and complications on top of the vast majority of
transactions. I had to rewrite the letter to the constituent,
explaining why Mr. Tsongas could not agree with the letter
writer's position.
   In a similar fashion, I observed Mr. Tsongas using the
bully pulpit of his congressional seat to enlist private
investment in Lowell, Mass., to drive the city's renaissance.
Yes, limited government support was needed as a catalyst, but
Mr. Tsongas recognized from the beginning that the city's
future was not viable without a strong private sector,
investing in the city, not as philanthropists, but as
self-interested, profit-seeking businesses.
   Mr. Tsongas's approach, from his first arrival in
Washington, and as I observed it closely for a few months 17
years ago, reflected a pragmatic, business-friendly
philosophy, differentiating him noticeably from several of
his "knee-jerk" Massachusetts congressional colleagues.
   Robert Russman Halperin
   Lexington, Mass.
   ---
   Mr. Gigot's article reminded me of my own remarks about
the senator 11 years ago, when, fresh from having served as
adviser to President Carter on inflation, I published an
article in the Economist under the title "Can Liberalism
Survive Inflation?" (March 7, 1981):
   "It was already clear, long before the debacle of November
4th, that America's Democratic Party, and especially its
liberal wing, was in for a long period of soul-searching. In
his valiant fight for its nomination, Senator Kennedy accused
President Carter of abandoning the liberal traditions of
Roosevelt, Truman, Kennedy and Johnson for the economics of
Herbert Hoover. From the standpoint of the president and his
supporters, the real question was -- and is -- whether the
economic assumptions and platform of the New and all the
later Deals and Societies make contact with the economic
realities of the 1980s. Nowhere was this issue more
dramatically posed than in the remarkable speech before the
annual convention of the ADA -- Americans for Democratic
Action -- by the unarguably liberal Senator Paul Tsongas of
Massachusetts, who, while supporting his senior senator for
the nomination, in effect repudiated all the portions of the
Kennedy economic platform that differed from President
Carter's."
   This is not the place to summarize the argument of my
article except to point out how similar it was to the
positions that Mr. Tsongas is taking today:
   "At the same time, and for the same reasons, liberalism
has tended to be comparatively indifferent to what it is
today nauseatingly fashionable to refer to, often very
fuzzily and as though it were the product of some epiphany,
as the `supply side.' It has tended to ignore society's needs
for savings; to take investment and the provision of
productive capacity for granted; and has generally been more
concerned with redistributing the benefits and mitigating the
costs of economic progress than with protecting its
wellsprings."
   I hasten to point out my recognition of the fact that,
despite my efforts in that article to display my
qualifications for continuing to be regarded as a "liberal,"
some modern-day liberals would, of course, dissent from the
Economist's description of me -- and mine of Mr. Tsongas --
as a "liberal supply-sider."
   Alfred E. Kahn
   Professor Emeritus
   Political Economy
   Cornell University
   Ithaca, N.Y.