Enterprise:
   Smaller Firms
   Invest in RD
   In a Big Way
   ----
   By Michael Selz
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Consider Xicor Inc., a tiny California rival of giant
National Semiconductor Corp. Like many U.S. manufacturers
suffering from declining demand, both semiconductor makers
are mired in losses and are slashing costs any way they can.
Xicor's research and development budget rose to 25% of sales
last year from 23% in 1990 -- while National Semiconductor
slashed its RD expenses to 12% of sales from 15%. National
Semiconductor blames the drop on its cost cuts and disposal
of certain product lines.
   "Xicor is a niche company that depends on being quick and
nimble in getting to the market ahead of the competition,"
says George Burns, a semiconductor-industry analyst at
Dataquest Inc. "It makes sense that they'd keep increasing
spending on research even though they have problems."
   Even in bad times, cutting back on RD is riskier for
small companies. Without the resources or broad product lines
of a major corporation, small firms that fall behind
technologically can be rapidly wiped out.
   "In this period of sluggish or nonexistent growth, small
firms that do a fair amount of RD are more inclined than
bigger firms to maintain RD, because it is their lifeblood,"
says Edwin Mansfield, director of the University of
Pennsylvania's Center for Economics and Technology. "Big
firms can cut some here and cut some there, because there
often is more fat and they're not so dedicated to -- or
dependent and focused on-RD."
   Small companies see the rewards of RD investment sooner,
too. Such firms can bring new products to market much quicker
than larger ones. And even when the payoff isn't in sight, an
entrepreneurial owner of a small business often is more
willing to take a long-term view of RD's importance than a
professional manager holding little equity in a major
corporation.
   With so many big businesses retrenching during the
downturn, small firms that continue to invest aggressively in
RD are extremely "important to the future strength of the
economy," Mr. Mansfield says.
   Some small companies lack any other choice. National
Micronetics Inc., a maker of recording heads for computer
disk drives, is locked in a crucial race to stay abreast of
technological changes. In the past few years, National's
larger Asian competitors such as Hitachi Ltd. and TDK Corp.
have begun selling a new generation of products that help to
double a disk drive's storage capacity. Now, the Kingston,
N.Y., concern is pouring large sums into RD to keep up with
rivals' brisker pace of new-product introduction.
   National's research spending grew 23% to $2.7 million in
the fiscal year ended last June 30 -- even though the company
posted a net loss of $9.7 million on a 64% drop in revenue to
$15.1 million during the period.
   "We were faced with putting everything we had into
developing a new recording head that would keep us
competitive with the industry," says Michael Moscinski,
National's director of corporate accounting. Without a full
line of computer products, he adds, "it wasn't like we could
abandon one and go on to something else. As a small company,
it's do or die." SL Industries Inc. also has expanded its RD
budget despite financial troubles. In fiscal 1991 ended July
31, the small company reported a net loss of $8.9 million on
a 9% sales decline, to $54.8 million. Yet research spending
by the Mount Laurel, N.J., maker of specialized industrial
goods increased 31% to $2.1 million.
   One reason is that SL Industries can bring new products to
the market so fast. In the past year, says Executive Vice
President Ted Taubeneck, the company has introduced a
half-dozen new products, such as power surge protectors for
computers. SL Industries began developing some of its latest
products only last spring.
   "I've worked for small companies and big companies, and
small companies do research faster," Mr. Taubeneck says. He
notes that even the quickest product development work took 18
months at aerospace giant Rockwell International Corp., where
he worked for 10 years between 1970 and 1980. Rockwell
declines to comment.
   "Small firms do tend to be quicker to develop new
products," concurs Pennsylvania's Mr. Mansfield. His research
found that a billion-dollar increase in annual sales can add
months to a company's product-development process.
   A small business also is more likely to be controlled by a
founder who feels a greater commitment than salaried
corporate managers to increased research spending, no matter
how bad business gets.
   "If you control the company and don't care about quarterly
earnings reports, you are going to continue to spend on RD
right through the economic cycles," says D. Mark Cunningham,
a vice president at New York's Alliance Capital Management
Corp., a money-management concern. Such entrepreneurs, adds
John Preston, director of technology licensing at the
Massachusetts Institute of Technology, "are much more willing
to bet long term."
   That's why Richard Brooks, founder, chairman and chief
executive officer of ChemDesign Corp., is spending
aggressively on RD even while much larger chemical concerns
are reining in such expenses. (Mr. Brooks, along with other
insiders, owns 40% of the shares in the small Fitchburg,
Mass., concern.)  Du Pont Co., Union Carbide Corp. and
Monsanto Co. all say that they're planning little or no
increase in research expenditures this year. "Like the rest
of our company, our research management has been looking for
ways to reduce costs," a Du Pont spokesman says.
   The big chemical makers aren't alone. In a survey of 132
of the nation's largest corporations, the Industrial Research
Institute found that 78% plan no increase or a reduction in
capital spending for research and development this year.
   By contrast, ChemDesign expects its 1992 RD budget to
grow 47% to $2.5 million. Never mind that the company's net
income plunged 31% to $2.5 million during the nine months
ended Sept. 30 on a meager 3% increase in sales to $31.5
million.
   "I don't run this company like Wall Street would like us
to run it: quarter by quarter," says Mr. Brooks. He projects
that chemicals now under development will account for as much
as half of ChemDesign's business in three years. "In the face
of a lousy 1991," he adds, "we are basically doubling our
(main) RD staff in Massachusetts. We feel that's necessary
to continue to grow the company."
   ---
   Busy Labs
                                                                                                       

   Companies monitored by Compustat Services Inc. with
greatest percentage increase in research and development
spending last year
                                                                                                       

                Companies With Under $100
                Million in Annual Revenue
                                                                                                       

                                     1991         %CHGE.
                             (in millions)     From 1990
                                                                                                       

   Bircher Medical Sys.               $3.1        148.4%
   Andros Inc.                         2.7         87.5
   Lasermaster Tech. Inc.              2.9         67.4
   Integrated Circuit Sys.             1.9         61.8
   TSI Corp.                           3.1         60.1
   Micro Systems Inc.                  2.6         60.2
   Landmark Graphics Corp.            11.2         52.9
                                                                                                       

                Companies With Over $100
                Million in Annual Revenue
                                                                                                       

                                     1991        %CHGE.
                             (in millions)    From 1990
                                                                                                       

   Cisco systems Inc                 $12.7       105.7%
   Quixote Corp.                       4.8        88.4
   ASK Computer Sys. Inc.             32.9        79.6
   Knowledgeware Inc.                 14.0        76.9
   Woodward Governor Co.              18.3        48.0
   AST Research Inc.                  26.6        44.5
   Silicon Graphics Inc.              65.3        43.0
                                                                                                       

   Note: Excludes companies with less than $5 million in
annual sales, RD spending less than $1 million annually or
RD spending of less than 1% of annual sales.
                                                                                                       

   Source: Compustat Services Inc.