Tuesday's Markets:
   Fed Action
   Hits Bonds
   And Stocks
   ---
   Cut in Bank Reserves
   Sends Rates Higher
   On Inflation Fears
   ----
  By Douglas R. Sease and Michael R. Sesit
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
The Fed said it would lower banks' reserve requirements in
April, freeing billions of dollars for banks to lend. Such
lending is intended to spur an economic rebound, but
prospects of higher inflation unsettled an already ailing
bond market. The price of the Treasury's benchmark 30-year
bond dropped three-quarters of a point, or $7.50 for each
$1,000 face amount.
   Analysts said stock market investors, who already had been
betting on an economic recovery, became anxious that higher
long-term interest rates would offer stiffer competition for
investment dollars. Expectations of a recovery, rather than
evidence of one, have boosted stock prices sharply in the
past three months.
   "The stock market is starting to decline because investors
sense that long-term rates are very attractive and it doesn't
appear that they're going to come down anytime soon," said
Hugh Johnson, chief investment officer at First Albany Corp.
"With long-term rates near 8%, the stock market is overvalued
to the tune of 5% to 8%. I wouldn't be surprised if this is
the start of a correction that brings stock prices down to a
level that more fairly reflects interest rates."
   Meanwhile, the dollar rose as traders bet that the
difference between U.S. and German interest rates will
narrow. "People are anticipating a U.S. recovery and an
easing of interest rates in other countries, most critically
Germany," said Anne Parker Mills, a currency strategist at
Lehman Brothers. She said the dollar could climb "to 1.75
marks this spring."
   In major market action:
                                                                                                       

   Stock prices fell. Volume totaled 234.3 million shares on
the New York Stock Exchange, where 1,080 issues fell and 714
rose.
                                                                                                       

   Bonds sank. The yield on the Treasury's benchmark 30-year
bond climbed to 7.98%.
                                                                                                       

   The dollar strengthened. In late New York trading it was
quoted at 1.6435 marks, compared with 1.6225 in Europe Monday
and 1.6260 marks in New York Friday. It also stood at 127.98
yen, compared with 126.95 yen Monday and 127.90 yen Friday.