International:
   Procordia AB
   Shares Fall 6.6%
   On Volvo Plan
   ----
   By Stephen D. Moore
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
As reported, the companies unveiled a surprise merger
proposal on Saturday, valuing the struggling auto maker at
38.7 billion kronor ($6.63 billion). Under a reverse takeover
offer for Volvo, Procordia is offering nine of its own shares
for every four Volvo shares already held. That exchange
represents a 22% premium over Friday's closing price of $68
in national over-the-counter trading of Volvo's American
depositary receipts.
   Volvo and the Swedish government are Procordia's dominant
owners, each with 42.7% voting stakes. Both the Volvo and
Procordia boards endorsed the merger plan in a meeting late
Friday. But the government remains skeptical of the proposal,
partly over the terms of payment and partly because the
merger would delay the government's privatization program by
as much as a year. Various concessions required from the
government under the merger proposal make the state's backing
crucial to the plan's success.
   Analysts said the stock market's reaction reflects a
consensus among investors that Procordia shareholders would
be big losers from any merger, at least in the short term.
Procordia's earnings per share would be diluted sharply by
joining forces with Volvo, analysts argued. There would be
scant prospect of a recovery in earnings until Volvo's car
division started making money again and analysts don't expect
that until 1995 at the earliest.
   "The market's message was quite clear. People don't
believe in this deal," said Torsten Johansson, chief fund
manager for insurer AB Skandia. He gives the merger plan a
50-50 chance.
   Other analysts believe that the Procordia-Volvo marriage
will ultimately take place, though perhaps with changed
terms. "The powers involved here are so strong that no one
will be able to stop it even if they wanted to," said Richard
Bagge, an equity analyst for Stockholm stock brokerage firm
Aros Fondkommission. Mr. Bagge says Procordia might have to
modify its offer, as well as dangle other incentives as a
face-saving compromise, to break the impasse with the
government.
   Yesterday, Pehr Gyllenhammar, the autocratic chairman of
both Volvo and Procordia, fired off a letter to Sweden's
Industry Minister Per Westerberg demanding renegotiation of a
two-year-old shareholders pact between Volvo and the
government. According to Mr. Westerberg, the pact makes any
increase in Procordia's share capital subject to approval by
both Volvo and the government. Such a provision gives the
government a de facto veto over the merger plan, because
Procordia intends to pay for Volvo with new shares.
   The shareholders' agreement also stipulates that neither
owner can sell its holding without the other's consent. But
Volvo alleges the government breached the accord by including
the Procordia stake in its privatization program. Mr.
Westerberg insists that the pact gives the government full
freedom to sell its stake under a broad public offering.
   Besides price, the toughest hurdle for the government
posed by the merger plan is a demand that it exchange its
Procordia shares, which have high voting rights, for new
lower-voting-rights Procordia stock. The exchange is
necessary to dilute the state's stake in the combined
Volvo-Procordia to 25% from 44% it otherwise would own after
a successful merger.
   Volvo executives insist such a high level of state control
would quash interest in the new company among international
investors. But the lower-voting-rights stock is almost
certain to fetch a lower price than the state's current
shares, so the exchange could cost taxpayers dearly if the
state subsequently sold its stake in the merged company.