Politics & Policy:
   Complaints About U.S. Trade Barriers
   Greet Bush on His Asia-Pacific Tour
   ----
   By Michel McQueen
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Similar complaints are expected to be raised next week in
Japan -- Mr. Bush's final stop. Japanese officials, in
response to the president's increasingly vociferous
complaints about closed markets, are likely to reply with
examples of America's own barriers to such products as sugar,
dairy products and peanuts. Mr. Bush also travels to
Singapore and to South Korea.
   The complaints being heard here took on resonance since
Australia is the only nation on Mr. Bush's trip where the
U.S. has maintained a trade surplus in recent years, of about
$4 billion. The arguments took on emotional overtones as well
as Australians recalled their support of the U.S. in five
wars dating back to World War I, as well as their affinity
for Americans as a people.
   Peter France, a dairy farmer in the island state of
Tasmania, put it bluntly: "It annoys me as far as Americans
are concerned. Twenty years ago I was fighting alongside them
in Vietnam and now they're kicking us in the guts."
   At issue is the $900,000 Export Enhancement Program,
instituted in 1985 as a way to help U.S. farmers compete with
heavily subsidized European agricultural exports. The program
is supposed to be targeted at markets dominated by those
exports. But the Australians say that their unsubsidized
wheat, rice, beef and dairy products are being undercut in
their longstanding markets, like Turkey and Yemen, and that
the U.S. is depriving unsubsidized Australian farmers of
sales, rather than their European counterparts.
   The Bush administration has in private insisted that it is
sensitive to the farmers' concerns: A U.S. government
briefing book for reporters notes that President Bush wrote
to former Prime Minister Bob Hawke last year to assure him
that "all possible care will be taken to avoid a disruption
of traditional markets where Australia, as a non-subsidizing
exporter, has significant interests." But in his public
comments, President Bush took a harder line, saying "while I
don't like having to {resort to subsidies}, I will safeguard
the interests of American farmers."
   The issue was also discussed in a 45-minute session
Wednesday between President Bush and the new Prime Minister
Paul Keating. White House spokesman Marlin Fitzwater said the
two leaders agreed the issue would best be resolved in the
context of international trade talks. The two men had a
second round of talks Thursday. Later, Mr. Bush met with farm
representatives and then addressed the Parliament.
   Although the Australian farm lobby wants the U.S. to
dismantle the EEP, U.S. officials say that's unlikely.
Instead they are hoping for a strong statement from the
Australian government supporting the U.S. position in
international trade talks under the General Agreement on
Tariffs and Trade. GATT Director-General Arthur Dunkel has
proposed a deep cut in export subsidies and other trade
barriers worldwide, and the U.S. has moved to embrace his
proposal. The U.S. officials say that an agreement on GATT
will force all countries to lower trade barriers and
subsidies and will be more effective than bilateral or
unilateral action.
   Mr. Bush has also attempted to deflect the criticism by
focusing on the warm U.S. ties with Australia and engaging in
some of his "personal diplomacy." At one point, he jumped out
of his car to shake hands with citizens. He even invited a
Sydney doctor to have tea with him when he noticed the doctor
flying a U.S. flag in his yard.
   Mr. Bush also sought to reinforce the U.S. commitment to
the continued security of the region despite changes in the
former Soviet Union and elsewhere.
   As the U.S. economy continues to falter at the beginning
of an election year, President Bush has been seeking to
balance his desire to reaffirm longstanding security ties
with his need to aggressively pursue American trade
interests.
   In the days leading up to his trip, Mr. Bush assured U.S.
audiences that throughout his mission "my highest priority is
jobs" as he put it in his departure statement, and that he
would press these allies to open their markets to U.S.
products.
   But in his comments Wednesday to an invited audience of
Australian government leaders and U.S. business executives
accompanying him on his trip, Mr. Bush repeatedly stressed
the importance of U.S. ties to the Asia-Pacific region and
its people. "We will be involved . . . we know friends when
we see them," he said. Mr. Bush also sought to minimize
differences with his host country, saying, "There are a
couple of differences, {but} differences are so overwhelmed
by the common purpose they're not even on the radar screen."