Workplace:
   To Cut Costs and Keep the Best People,
   More Concerns Offer Flexible Work Plans
   ----
   By Cathy Trost
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
"The conventional wisdom is flexibility doesn't advance
during hard times," says Paul Rupert, associate director of
New Ways to Work, a San Francisco research group. "But in
this recession more than in previous ones, companies are
saying flexibility can be used to help cushion the effects of
the downturn."
   Yet the paradox is that even as companies are making it
easier to get such jobs, there are often few takers in this
weak economy. As layoffs sweep the country, reaching deep
into the professional and managerial ranks, employees are
afraid to give up anything. Thus, workers cling to full-time
jobs, no matter what the toll is on family lives.
   Du Pont Co., already a pacesetter in offering
family-friendly benefits, stepped up efforts to pitch them to
employees after instituting a $1 billion cost-trimming effort
last summer. The company has about 2,000 employees working
part-time and between 10,000 and 15,000 working flexible
hours. But only "a couple of hundred" more employees have
opted for flexible options since the push started last
summer, estimates Susan Pierce, consultant to Du Pont's
so-called work force partnering division. "We have not seen
much interest by employees, frankly, because of the
uncertainty of the economy," she says.
   Nevertheless, family assistance is growing even as
companies struggle to contain overall benefits costs.
According to a new survey by Hay/Huggins Co., benefits
consultants, virtually none of the surveyed firms had
paternity leave or work-at-home policies in 1987. By 1991,
nearly half offered paternity leaves and 14% offered
telecommuting options. In addition, 40% had flexible-hours
policies, up from 35% in 1987.
   Donna Shaw, a 40-year-old business reporter for the
Philadelphia Inquirer, recently took advantage of an offer by
her employer to start a four-day work week. She wanted to
spend more time with her two children and also allow her
husband, a Philadelphia police detective, to devote more time
to his job. The couple hope to balance her loss of income
against his increased overtime earnings.
   Ms. Shaw says her worries that the move could hurt her
career were softened by the company's positive attitude about
the plan. "They made it clear that it wouldn't be seen as
negative, that this was a way for you to help your company,"
she says.
   Philadelphia Newspapers Inc., the subsidiary of
Knight-Ridder Inc. that publishes the Philadelphia Inquirer
and Philadelphia Daily News, recently offered a special
package of voluntary programs to reduce costs. Employees were
encouraged to sign up for reduced work-week schedules, job
sharing and unpaid leaves of absence, along with the more
standard fare of early retirement and voluntary separation
incentives. The company sweetened the deal by extending
health benefits up to the length of a year's leave.
   Among 1,190 union employees at the Philadelphia Inquirer
and Daily News, 59 employees took unpaid leaves, 12 took
reduced work weeks and none applied for job sharing. Among
630 nonunion employees, 10 are taking unpaid leaves and four
are switching to reduced work weeks. The company recently
announced there would be no layoffs in the foreseeable future
because of the success of the voluntary program.
   At Du Pont, officials are actively promoting the company's
menu of work options to seek increased participation. In a
letter laying out the cost-cutting drive to Du Pont's 141,000
world-wide employees, Chairman Edgar S. Woolard Jr.
personally endorsed a "combination of positive, creative
approaches" such as shared work to help achieve cost
reductions. And for the past several months, Ms. Pierce has
been making presentations about flexible work to supervisory
and employee groups.
   "We have widely communicated that flexible work practices
are an alternative for avoiding layoffs and keeping valued
employees while going through current cost-cutting
activities," she says.
   In the midst of a big drive to reduce its work force,
International Business Machines Corp. also has expanded
several family programs -- not as another cost-cutting step
but as part of a strategic plan to hold onto its best
employees.
   A new "flexible work leave of absence" program allows
employees to work part-time for up to three years with full
company-paid benefits, and they can continue the arrangement
after the third year by paying part of the benefit costs. The
company also expanded its work-at-home program, flexible work
schedules and "meal break" option, which lets employees
rearrange their workday to attend a child's school function
or meet other family and personal needs.
   Avon Products Inc. is another company turning to flexible
scheduling to attract and keep the best-qualified workers.
Toward that end, the company recently revived the dormant job
of managing family and diversity issues in its work force and
began generating more programs.
   "To achieve a competitive advantage, it's essential that
you manage people and life situations more effectively," says
Vicky Cintron, who took over the family-issues job last June.
"You can't deal with a work force that's consistently worried
about child care." The company is launching a new child-care
assistance plan and exploring flexible work options.
   Certainly, many companies going through hard times are
still the lean and mean variety. But a study by the Families
and Work Institute found that contrary to stereotype,
companies experiencing big business changes such as
downsizing were more involved with work-family assistance
than those not going through such changes.
   Some workplace and union experts charge that such moves
could actually be a ploy by companies to replace costly
fulltime jobs with inferior part-time work offering few
benefits and little job security. Philadelphia Newspaper
Guild Local 10 fought some provisions of the Philadelphia
Newspapers proposal. "We believe the ultimate aim is to
create a part-time work force and felt this was a backdoor
way at getting at that," says Kitty Caparella, president of
the local.
   Charles Fancher, Philadelphia Newspapers' vice president
for communications, contends that is "simply not the case. We
did not want to go to layoffs if we could possibly avoid
that, and this seemed to be a creative and highly desirable
way to approach the situation," Mr. Fancher says.
   One newspaper employee who took a four-month leave of
absence to write a children's book and spend more time with
his own children did so only after he "sat down with a
calculator" to figure out if it was financially possible.
   Joe Logan, a 40-year-old features writer for the Inquirer,
calculated that he could save $250 a week by serving as his
children's after-school child-care program himself. In
addition, he figured savings on transportation, lunches and
cleaning work clothes. "I'm also lucky that my wife is a
lawyer," he says. Indeed, she used his time home to spend
more time working on making partner at her firm.
   Mr. Logan says he also felt liberated from career fears by
the company's encouragement. "Previously if you wanted to
take a leave, you had to go hat in hand and make a case," he
says, adding: "I came back refreshed with a sort of new
appreciation of the job. They got back a better employee."