Politics  Policy:
   Clinton, Bush
   Score Big Wins
   In the South
   ---
   Both Amass Huge Delegate
   Leads; Critical Test Due
   Next Tuesday in Midwest
   ----
   By Jill Abramson and David Shribman
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
At the same time, Mr. Tsongas racked up wins on his native
New England turf and in Delaware. He gave Mr. Clinton a
6-to-1 drubbing in Massachusetts, and a more than 2-to-1
beating in Rhode Island. In those three states, Mr. Brown ran
neck-and-neck with Mr. Clinton for second place.
   While Messrs. Clinton and Tsongas were both winning in
their home regions, there were many more delegates at stake
in the South than in New England, giving the Arkansas
governor an advantage of better than 2-to-1 in Democratic
convention delegates to this point.
   That's why next Tuesday is so important. For the first
time, a major confrontation occurs in a location that gives
no contender a home-court advantage. If Mr. Clinton sweeps
the contests in Michigan and Illinois, he would be the
decided favorite for the nomination. But Tsongas victories in
both states would hand the Arkansan a serious setback and
leave the Democratic nomination picture cloudy.
   "It is a super Tuesday for Clinton, but it shows that when
he moves out of the South, Tsongas is just as strong in his
region as Clinton is as his," says John White, a former party
chairman. "We now have two regional candidates, and after all
this publicity neither one of these candidates is showing
great strength. There's uneasiness except in the region where
people know these guys."
   Even though Gov. Clinton is still far from clinching the
nomination, he is piling up delegates -- almost 40% of the
delegates needed for the nomination -- and is pulling away
from Mr. Tsongas.
   Mr. Brown failed to win anywhere yesterday, but will
continue to pick targets for his campaign against the
established interests of American politics. "Jerry Brown is
going to stay in the race all the way, and he could be
dangerous for Clinton in some of these places," says Paul
Maslin, a California-based Democratic pollster.
   In the Republican race, President Bush continued to chalk
up primary victories across the country, soundly defeating
Mr. Buchanan but not driving him from the field. The
television commentator repeatedly has said he will stay in
the race, probably targeting Michigan next, where
protectionist sentiment is strong and the economy weak.
   "Bush is five games ahead with four games to play," says
Thomas Rath, a Bush strategist. "There aren't many places
Buchanan can go for delegates. He's very close to being
mathematically eliminated. He does not have the basis to deny
the sitting president the nomination. If he stays in it, it
has less to do with 1992 than with 1996."
   But everything the Bush camp has done to pressure Mr.
Buchanan to leave the race has only redoubled his
determination to remain. There have been some personal
attacks on Mr. Buchanan, including one by Rich Bond,
Republican national chairman.
   Mr. Buchanan said he wouldn't campaign for President Bush
in November if Mr. Bond were still party chief. "I will
endorse the president if he wins the nomination, but that
guy's got to be out of there," the conservative commentator
said in an interview with WBZ radio in Boston. In a
television appearance over the weekend, Mr. Bond compared Mr.
Buchanan and David Duke, saying that Mr. Buchanan had tried
"to basically hijack David Duke's message on race and
religious tolerance and put a jacket and tie on it and try to
clean it up."
   In the Democratic contest, 783 pledged delegates were at
stake in the 11 Super Tuesday contests, accounting for more
than one-fifth of all the pledged delegates. The Super
Tuesday round of primaries and caucuses was assembled for the
1984 election to give the South, once a Democratic
stronghold, a bigger voice in the party's nomination. For the
first time, a Southerner reaped the benefits of that
calculation.
   "The structure of Super Tuesday is perfectly suited to a
southern progressive candidate who can put together a
blue-collar, white and black coalition," says William
Carrick, a Democratic consultant who advised the presidential
campaign of Sen. Bob Kerrey, who left the race last week.
"Clinton obviously did that."
   The engine driving Mr. Clinton's big victories were older
and black voters. According to interviews with voters as they
were leaving the polls, Mr. Clinton won two-thirds of older
voters and four-fifths of blacks. Overall, the Democratic
vote appears to have declined some from 1988 in most of the
Southern states.
   But even Mr. Clinton's formidable performance in
yesterday's balloting didn't allay the uneasiness that many
Democrats feel about the Arkansas governor, who still must
prove his ability to prevail in northern states.
   Party leaders worry that voters' doubts about Mr.
Clinton's character, because of allegations of draft dodging
and womanizing, could still derail his candidacy. Worse
still, they fret about the possibility that new disclosures
could emerge during the autumn campaign, especially as the
general election map leaves the Democrats with no margin for
error.
   Even as Mr. Clinton moves ahead in the delegate count,
there is restiveness among party leaders. In Michigan, for
example, Rep. John Dingell, long a supporter of Detroit's
auto industry and auto workers, is now saying he will likely
vote for "uncommitted" in next week's primary. Some Michigan
labor leaders have encouraged other prominent Democrats to do
the same.
   With Sen. Tom Harkin of Iowa, the favorite of many labor
leaders, now out of contention, Mr. Brown is stepping up his
pro-union appeal and attacking Mr. Clinton, seeking to
portray him as an enemy of labor.
   Mr. Brown won't be the only negative voice Mr. Clinton
hears during the next six days. Mr. Tsongas has hired media
consultant Scott Miller and is almost certain to mount an
aggressive broadcast campaign against Mr. Clinton. Despite
his wins yesterday, Mr. Tsongas is under extreme pressure to
show strength in the Rust Belt.
   Although President Bush continues to win primaries, his
victories come as he is growing weaker in public-opinion
polls. The hammering by Mr. Buchanan, reinforced by the
Democrats, is clearly taking its toll, as is the public's
pessimism about the economy.
   Mr. Duke, the former Ku Klux Klan leader who mounted
unsuccessful campaigns for the U.S. Senate and governorship
in Louisiana, failed to establish himself as a serious factor
and is finished as an even remotely significant presidential
contender this year.