Wednesday's Markets:
   OTC Stocks
   Soar to Hit
   2 Records
   ---
   Dow Industrials Slip,
   Dollar Gains on Yen
   And Bonds Are Flat
   ----
   By Douglas R. Sease and Michael R. Sesit
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
Analysts said U.S. financial markets easily weathered
President Bush's reaction to the flu at a Tokyo dinner.
Demand for smaller technology stocks -- especially Microsoft
-- led the Nasdaq market higher. Microsoft rocketed 4 1/4 to
124 1/4.
   Joseph McAlinden, chief market strategist at Dillon Read,
said the momentum that built in the year-end rally probably
will drive stock prices -- especially small stocks -- higher.
   "There's a tremendous amount of money coming into the
market, especially among the secondary and tertiary issues,"
he said. "Barring something coming out of the blue, this
could keep on going for the next month or two." He said big
stocks are likely to hit a price plateau before smaller
issues exhaust their upward momentum.
   Meanwhile, the dollar seesawed in nervous trading. It
initially rose in Asia on traders' chagrin that a joint
statement by President Bush and Japanese Prime Minister
Kiichi Miyazawa didn't call for a stronger yen. It then
dropped on reports of Mr. Bush's collapse but later
recovered.
   By the end of the day, it had reversed course once again
on the prevailing bearish sentiment. Analysts said that
international political pressure remains for Japan to shrink
its rising trade surplus with a stronger yen. In addition,
"high German interest rates continue to make a solid argument
for a stronger mark against most other currencies," said
Cinta del MonacoKemp, a trader at Salomon Brothers. "The
dollar continues to be vulnerable on the back of a weak
economy and very low U.S. interest rates."
   In major market action:
                                                                                                       

   Stock prices were mixed in heavy trading. Volume totaled
289.7 million shares on the New York Stock Exchange, where
1,073 issues rose and 707 fell.
                                                                                                       

   Bond prices were flat. The yield on the Treasury's
benchmark 30-year issue stood at 7.39%.
                                                                                                       

   The dollar rose against the yen but was unchanged at
1.5075 marks. In late New York trading, it was quoted at
124.35 yen, up from 123.98 Tuesday.