The Mutual Fund Rip-Off
   ----
   By Charles Trzcinka
It's not that the average investor is getting any less
sophisticated. The big problem is that government regulations
have restricted competition at the retail level. The law
forces mutual fund brokers to act as agents of the fund --
and not agents of the investor. The result is higher fees for
broker services. Worse, a quagmire of new regulations being
considered by the Securities and Exchange Commission will
increase the restriction on competition.
   Under the new rules, a "no-load" fund would be able to
charge a small load (a "load" is payment for broker
services). Fees would be so complicated that the money an
investor pays his broker would be difficult to quantify --
just like a hidden tax. The more difficulty that investors
have observing fees, the more latitude funds will have to
raise them.
   How did we get into this mess? In competitive industries,
contracts between suppliers and customers tend to be
simplified because complicated arrangements are costly to
monitor. When competition is restricted by the government,
the regulated suppliers have an incentive to confuse
customers about prices so that comparison between suppliers
is difficult and higher prices can be charged. There were
plenty of examples of this in the industries that were
regulated by the federal "fair trade" laws of the 1930s.
Ruled illegal by the Supreme Court, these laws allowed
suppliers to force retailers to charge uniform prices and act
as agents of suppliers.
   The lone survivor of these laws is the section of the
Investment Company Act of 1940 that requires a mutual fund to
set the same fee per dollar investment paid by investors to
all brokers who sell the fund. From 1940 to 1981 the SEC,
empowered by this act to regulate funds, allowed only one
type of broker compensation -- the "load." If an investor
wanted the services of a broker, he paid a percentage of the
money invested at the time of the investment to the broker
and nothing more. Brokers were forced to charge uniform fees.
The fee system was a simple percentage, so it was easy to
compare services.
   In 1981 the SEC passed rule "12b-1," allowing funds to
deduct a percentage of the fund's assets each year to pay the
broker an annual fee on behalf of the investor. The "12b-1"
fee continues for as long as an investor is in the fund and
represents, typically 0.5% to 1% of all assets in the fund in
a given year. With this fee, investors must guess a broker's
ultimate compensation, since it depends on the future value
of the assets and the length of time an investor spends in
the fund -- and the fund may increase the fee. But an
investor who places $10,000 for 15 years in a fund that
charges a fee of 0.75% of assets pays the equivalent of a
$900 load.
   Some funds have given investors a choice between paying a
load (a one-time payment) or a "12b-1" fee. But investors who
want to put all their money in the market instantly must pay
the "12b-1" fee and so must still guess at broker
compensation.
   As a result of these regulations, there is a striking -
and predictable -- difference between the regulated selling
of mutual fund shares and the competitive pricing of broker
services in the retail market for common stock. An investor
who buys common stock can easily compare the prices of broker
services, which range from the simple execution of trades
performed by discount brokers to stock selection by a full
service broker based on specialized research. The same
investor who decides to own common stock by buying shares in
a mutual fund is confronted by identical prices no matter
which broker is selected, or what service is provided.
   Thus, it is much less worthwhile for the investor in a
mutual fund to compare services offered by brokers with the
fee than it is for the investor in common stock. Since one
motive for buying mutual fund shares is to pay someone else
to investigate the risks and return of securities, it is not
surprising that investors who need the services of brokers
often ignore fees -- allowing funds to raise their charges.
   Statistical results I presented to the "shadow SEC" in
November showed that fees have increased over the past five
years. We found that the larger the broker's compensation,
the higher the total expenses of the fund and the lower the
net return to investors. Total fees paid by investors for
funds with 12b-1 expenses were as much as 0.45% higher than
funds that exclusively used the traditional load system. It
appears that funds are charging more for broker services
because investors are not able to easily compare the fees.
   Investors are in the same position as retail customers
were when "fair trade" laws prevented discounting-retail
outlets had little incentive to segment into high and low
quality stores, and were, in effect, the agents of suppliers,
not of customers. Similarly, the law prevents mutual fund
brokers from discounting their services, and forces brokers
to be agents of the fund, not of investors.
   Investors have not been silent about being poorly served.
The clamor for limits on 12b-1 fees has resulted in proposals
from the SEC starting in 1988 and evolved to a proposed set
of National Association of Securities Dealers' rules that
will strictly limit these fees. The annual charge, now called
an "asset based" fee rather than a "12b-1 fee," will be
linked to sales of shares. If the fund sells nothing the
charges will eventually stop, and there will be maximum legal
charge. Furthermore, the law will limit the interest rate on
any debt that the fund has to the broker.
   What the new rules do not do is give investors any reason
to compare prices of broker services. The new rules make
broker compensation much more difficult to determine -- which
is not surprising since they were designed in cooperation
with the industry. To estimate total broker compensation,
investors must guess the dollar amount of future sales and
the period over which the asset-based charge will be applied.
However, the period depends on the liabilities of a fund to
brokers and the new rules allow these liabilities to remain a
carefully guarded secret.
   Finally, investors must determine whether the fund will
raise the asset-based charge if the fee is not at the
maximum. Thus, by law, it will be virtually impossible for an
investor to link the services a broker provides to the price
charged. In addition, the one clearly stated broker fee is a
charge of 0.25% times total assets deducted each year an
investor is in the fund. But the industry is currently
demanding that funds limiting their selling fees to 0.25% be
allowed to call themselves "noload," which is the traditional
name for funds with no selling fee.
   Is there any doubt that many investors needing broker
services will simply stop monitoring fees? Is there a better
example of a regulated industry trying to use the government
to disguise its prices and discourage consumers from
comparison shopping?
   The solution is an old one and has been successfully tried
in most American industries. Encourage competition by
simplifying the rules or compel competition by eliminating
them. To simplify, the SEC could require that broker charges
be levied on each account rather than on the fund, so that an
investor would see exactly what the charges are. As discussed
-- and rejected -- by the NASD proposal, an investor would
pay the load over some specified time period and there would
be no need to guess at the brokers compensation.
   If the SEC eliminated the rules, brokers could compete for
investor dollars by providing different services at different
prices. The protection that the SEC is now attempting to
provide would be provided by the market, and the last federal
"fair trade" law would be eliminated.
   ---
   Mr. Trzcinka is a finance professor in the School of
Management of the State University of New York at Buffalo.