Commodities:
   Oil Futures Prices Decline, but Volume Is Light
   As Traders Await More Data on OPEC Output
   ----
   By Allanna Sullivan
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
"The market is going through a post-OPEC lull," said
Andrew Lebow, an analyst for E.D. F. Man International in
New York.
   Crude oil for April delivery ended trading at $18.46 a
barrel, down 2 cents. Heating oil contracts for March
finished at 50.87 cents a gallon, down 0.48 cents. Gasoline
contracts for March, however, rose by 0.88 cents to 54.57
cents a gallon.
   The only news report of note in the market yesterday was
the weekly statistics analysis released late Tuesday by the
American Petroleum Institute, which showed a rise in
crude-oil inventories. That increase, coupled with a jump in
refinery throughput, was perceived as bearish by traders.
   But an unanticipated decline in gasoline inventories
helped prop up oil prices across the board. Gasoline stocks
had been expected to grow. "Gasoline saved the market," said
Nauman Barakat, vice president of energy futures trading for
Merrill Lynch. "And in anticipation of driving season, it may
just be a case of as gasoline goes so goes the market, at
least for awhile."
   According to the Institute, crude stocks last week rose by
1.35 million barrels to 334.18 million barrels. Heating oil
stocks fell by 3.38 million barrels, marking only half the
pace of inventory drawdowns set during the past few weeks.
Gasoline supplies slipped by 365,000 barrels to 230.78
million barrels.
   In the absence of other news, market participants are
likely to await the first news of OPEC production during the
second half of February. Those numbers could give some
indication of how serious the group really is about reducing
production. However, because much of February's business was
accounted for prior to the OPEC gathering, output during
early March might provide a more accurate picture of pumping
levels.
   But market participants are anxiously awaiting signs that
major OPEC producers Iran and Nigeria are going to reduce
output to customers. So far, Iran has indicated that it will
reduce its spot sales of crude oil. But, traders point out,
most of that producer's crude has been sold via contract
rather than on a basis of individual spot sales.
   In other commodity markets yesterday:
                                                                                                       

   GRAINS  SOYBEANS: Prices of wheat futures contracts
rebounded from a dip early in the session amid reports that
grain importing officials from the Commonwealth of
Independent States are slated to arrive in the U.S. next
week. Grain traders said they expect talks with U.S.
officials to concern how the Agriculture Department might
begin to award food-buying loan guarantees directly to
individual republics instead of through a commonwealth
organization. Soybean prices dipped amid increasing prospects
for a large harvest in South America, which is a major
competitor of the U.S. in the world market. Corn prices
settled mixed.
                                                                                                       

   COPPER: Futures prices rallied. Copper for February
delivery ended at $1.031 a pound, up 1.1 cents; the actively
traded May contract rose 1.35 cents to $1.029. Mark Jevons,
senior vice president of Sharps Pixley in New York, said
short-covering in London was followed by very heavy fund and
commission house buying in the U.S. Traders cover short
positions, or bets that the price will fall, by buying
offsetting contracts. The rally ran into some resistance at
$1.03 on profit-taking and some producer selling, Mr. Jevons
said, but he added that producers for the most part are
staying on the sidelines. Stephen Platt, vice president of
Dean Witter in Chicago, attributed the strength to continued
nervousness about labor disruptions in Chile and Peru. He
added that yesterday's durable goods report for January,
which was up 1.5% from December, also helped copper prices.
He predicted prices won't rise through the strong resistance
between $1.03 and $1.05.
                                                                                                       

   SUGAR: Futures prices fell on selling based on technical
factors. Sugar for March delivery lost 0.29 cent a pound to
finish at 7.87 cents. The actively traded May contract ended
0.2 cent lower at 7.95 cents. Prices came under pressure by
disappointed traders who had expected to see indications of
better demand, particularly from Russia, before the
expiration of the March contract, said Dean Witter's Mr.
Platt. As the price fell below 8 cents, previously entered
sell orders were executed, pushing prices down further,
traders said. Prices are likely to remain weak until the
March contract expires on Friday, said Scott Servetah,
analyst at Cargill Investor Services.