Mercedes Looks Toward Eastern Europe
   ---
   Region's Truck Market
   Presents Big Opportunity
   ----
   By Timothy Aeppel
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Mercedes also has arranged a joint venture to build buses
in Russia, and it is scouring the region for more
opportunities. Rather than relying on eastern Germany as a
springboard, Mercedes is pushing directly into Eastern
Europe, says Helmut Werner, deputy chairman of the company's
management board, who is responsible for commercial vehicles.
   Western Europe's $32 billion commercial-vehicle market --
encompassing trucks of all sizes and medium and heavy vans --
is nearly saturated. It also is crowded with such tough
competitors as Volvo and Iveco. That makes finding new
markets essential.
   "If we want to defend our European leadership, then we
have to do something in Eastern Europe," Mr. Werner declares,
"especially realizing that some of these countries -- with
Czechoslovakia in the forefront -- will someday join the
European Community."
   In Czechoslovakia, Mercedes, the car and truck division of
Daimler-Benz AG, has signed letters of intent to take stakes
in both Avia Praha and Liaz. Mercedes plans to pump 350
million marks ($209 million) into their factories over the
next five years with the aim of producing up to 30,000 trucks
annually. The company says it picked Czechoslovakia because
of its proximity to Germany and the relatively good condition
of the country's industrial base.
   "We want to generate a basis in Czechoslovakia from which
we can supply at low cost the other Eastern European
markets," says Mr. Werner, echoing earlier plans for eastern
Germany, "and we want to use it as a basis for more
cooperation with other Eastern European truck manufacturers."
   Mr. Werner says his aim is to build a production network
in Eastern Europe that trades components and products between
countries -- similar to the way Mercedes truck factories are
interconnected in Western Europe. That's the only way
investments in nations like Czechoslovakia can achieve
economies of scale, he says.
   The logical approach is to buy stakes in existing
companies. And there's no shortage of candidates. Eastern
Europe had a huge truck industry under communism -- which
viewed trucks as an almost mystical symbol of industrial
progress.
   "All of these companies now have to change their
structure, all of them have to change their philosophy, and
all of them -- or most of them -- will have to change their
ownership," predicts Mr. Werner. "Therefore, this is a
tremendous chance for us."
   There are also problems. The biggest customers for trucks
are the region's stateowned companies, which are struggling
to survive Eastern Europe's deep economic downturn. Very few
have money for new trucks and certainly not enough to buy
expensive imported models. The market is also poorly
developed, with almost no sales and service network
comparable to what exists in the West. All this now has to be
developed.
   "Eastern Europe is virtually an un-tapped market," says
Peter Dupont, a truck-industry analyst at UBS Phillips  Drew
in London. "But at this point, like most other things in the
region, it's still mainly potential."
   Over time, the market is certain to grow. Mr. Dupont says
that if Eastern Europe's market eventually reaches only half
the level of Western Europe, it would be a huge prize for
Western producers. But the market isn't expected to grow
evenly. Eastern Europeans badly need heavy trucks for
long-distance hauling, for instance, but they lack money to
buy the expensive vehicles.
   By contrast, light trucks and vans are relatively
inexpensive -- so demand for them is expected to surge
quickly after the region begins to recover. Smaller vehicles
are also attractive to the entrepreneurs springing up in the
region.
   Mercedes is adapting to this reality. While the company's
traditional strength is the heavier end of the market, it is
using Eastern Europe to bolster its activities in lighter
vehicles as well. Production in Czechoslovakia will include
delivery vans and light trucks, for instance, and such
vehicles are a key area of interest for Mercedes in Russia.
   But as Mercedes has learned, winning the first round of
competition is just the beginning. After Mercedes signed the
letters of intent with Czechoslovakia in January, for
example, officials in Prague began grumbling about the
strings Mercedes attached to the accord. Mercedes wants
Czechoslovakia to erect a stiff import duty for utility
trucks -- to protect the domestic market from competition --
as well as offer the company tax concessions and export
subsidies.
   Such incentives are common for countries trying to lure
investors. But both the industry minister of the Czech
republic, Jan Vrba, and the federal Finance Ministry have
criticized the conditions as excessive. For its part,
Mercedes insists that the incentives are necessary to offset
the high costs of retooling and operating a small-scale
production facility. The dispute could delay final agreement,
but it isn't expected to derail the deal.
   But such stumbling blocks don't bother Mr. Werner, who
talks about trucks with the sort of enthusiasm usually
associated with lovers of his company's high-powered cars.
"We want to make products which are specialized for the needs
of the Eastern European customers," he says. This means
making them cheaper than they could be produced in the West
and adapting them to conditions in the region.
   Meanwhile, Mercedes is still expanding into eastern
Germany -- but differently than expected. After plans to
develop a new truck for Eastern Europe with East Germany's
huge IFA truck conglomerate fell through in 1990, the joint
venture rented space in the old IFA plant in the eastern
German town of Ludwigsfelde outside Berlin and started
producing a small number of Mercedes light trucks and vans
for the Western market. The Western market now includes
former East Germany.
   At the same time, the company is pushing ahead with plans
to invest one billion marks in a new factory in a neighboring
eastern German village. But it, too, will produce for Western
customers. "Our aim is to integrate the production in eastern
Germany into the net of production in western Germany," says
Mr. Werner.