Credit Markets:
   Companies
   Rush to Sell
   New Bonds
   ---
   Low Rates Prompt
   Moves; ATT Offers
   $1 Billion of Debt
   ----
   By Constance Mitchell and Anita Raghavan
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
Leading the charge was American Telephone  Telegraph Co.,
which sold $1 billion of long-term notes and bonds through
underwriters led by Lehman Brothers. The offering was the
second bond sale by the communications giant in a month.
   ATT Treasurer S. Lawrence Prendergast said the company
decided to tap the market because interest rates are "very
attractive, particularly from a historical standpoint." ATT
is considering applying proceeds from the bond sale to redeem
a $500 million issue of 8.80% debentures and $300 million of
8.625% debentures, maturing in 2007. If it does so, ATT
expects to save about $9 million a year in interest costs.
   Bond traders and some buyers said many of the corporate
notes and bonds issued yesterday sold out quickly. "It was
almost like a feeding frenzy among investors; the market
absorbed the supply without a blink," said Barbara Kenworthy,
a portfolio manager at Dreyfus Corp., a mutual fund manager.
   The flood of corporate debt issues came as Treasury bonds
rallied sharply for the second consecutive day. The
bellwether 30year Treasury bond gained nearly 1/2 point, or
$5 for a bond with $1,000 face amount. The bond's yield fell
to 7.39%, the lowest yield on a benchmark bond since early
1987.
   Ms. Kenworthy pointed out that with lots of money moving
into bond mutual funds, those funds have plenty of cash to
buy new issues. Although interest rates have been falling,
many investors are betting that trend will continue,
resulting in strong bond market returns.
   The bulk of the corporate bonds sold yesterday had long
maturities, with most of them being 10-year notes or 30-year
bonds. James Somers, president of Somers Asset Management,
said many corporations that borrowed long-term were "forward
funding," essentially borrowing today for future needs.
"Companies are assuming that their borrowing cost over the
next 10 years will be higher than they are now," he said.
   The big ATT offering was in two parts. One was $500
million of noncallable 10-year notes priced to yield 7.28%,
or about 1/2 percentage point above the yield on the
Treasury's 10-year notes. The second part consisted of $500
million of 30-year bonds priced to yield 8.28%, or about 0.85
percentage point above the yield on the Treasury's benchmark
30-year bond.
   In addition to ATT, issuers of long-term paper included
Du Pont Co., which sold $400 million of 30-year debentures
priced to yield 8.28%; Kmart Corp., which sold $100 million
of 30-year debentures priced to yield 8.33%; and W.R. Berkley
Corp., which sold $100 million of 30-year bonds.
   The ATT bond sale was a coup for the investment bank
Lehman Brothers, as it was the first time that Lehman
Brothers has been picked to manage a major ATT bond deal.
ATT long has been a customer of Morgan Stanley  Co.; Lehman
Brothers, an American Express Co. unit, in recent months has
been aggressively going after more and bigger corporate bond
deals.
   ATT's Mr. Prendergast said the selection of Lehman wasn't
a "negative comment" on Morgan Stanley, which managed ATT's
last bond offering. He said that ATT is a large user of the
credit market and that "we just don't want to rely on one
company for all of our business."
   Despite market speculation that Lehman was picked because
it offered to underwrite the bonds at a lower cost than
Morgan, Mr. Prendergast said the underwriting fees on the
Lehman underwriting and the earlier one by Morgan Stanley
were the same.
   In the earlier offering, ATT sold $676 million of 40-year
debentures priced to yield 8.65%. Proceeds from that issue
were also earmarked for refinancing debt issues.
                                                                                                       

   Treasury Securities
                                                                                                       

   Lifted by another gust of bullish sentiment, prices of
U.S. government securities ended higher.
   The benchmark 30-year bond ended at a price of 107 5/32,
up from 106 23/32. The issue's yield, which moves in the
opposite direction of its price, eased to 7.39%, the lowest
yield on a benchmark bond since January 1987. The yield
finished Monday's session at 7.43%.
   Traders said prices were propelled yesterday in part by a
runup in the futures market. March bond futures rose 20/32 to
105 8/32, the highest settlement price ever for a bond
contract, according to Optima Futures Analysis Inc.
   But higher prices also reflect expectations that weak
economic data to be released later this week will make a
compelling case for another easing step by the Federal
Reserve.
   The Federal Reserve aggressively eased policy on Dec. 20,
cutting the discount rate a full percentage point to 3.5% and
its federal funds rate target 0.50 percentage point to 4%.
The discount rate is what the Fed charges on loans to member
banks; the federal funds rate is the rate on overnight loans
between banks. If the December employment report, to be
released Friday, shows the economy was still shedding jobs,
the Fed could cut the funds rate target again, traders say.
   "As odd as it may be to say it, there's just not enough
supply {of Treasury issues} to go around," says James Rice,
president of Aubrey G. Lanston  Co.
   One indication of the strong demand for Treasury
securities yesterday was the shortage of collateral in the
overnight repurchase agreement market. Current three-year,
five-year, seven-year and 10-year notes were all "on special"
in the repurchase agreement market, where participants were
willing to lend money at or near a very low 1% in return for
temporary use of those securities. General Treasury
collateral was quoted at about 4%.
   "On special" means the issues are scarce enough or demand
for them is so keen as to elicit cut-rate loans from
participants needing temporary use of the securities. This
often occurs when participants with significant short
(selling) positions compete to obtain securities needed to
cover, or off-set those positions.
   Today, the Treasury will auction off $9.5 billion of
seven-year notes. In when-issued trading, the yield on the
seven-year note was quoted late yesterday at 6.40%, down from
6.47% late Monday.
                                                                                                       

   Municipal Bonds
                                                                                                       

   Some actively traded, insured New York City general
obligation bonds rose as much as 3/4 point in price, as
investors sought out New York names unaffected by Moody's
Investors Service Inc.'s downgrade of New York state
appropriationbacked bonds Monday.
   Among gainers were New York City bonds, as well as others
from New York issuers such as the New York Power Authority
and the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey.
   Meanwhile, tax-exempt bonds ended unchanged to about 3/8
point higher. In trading of seasoned issues, the Florida
Board of Education's 6.70% issues of 2022 finished 3/8 higher
at 102 1/4 to yield 6.51%.
   nsured New York City general obligation bonds, the 6.375%
issues of 2008, were 3/4 higher at 100 1/4 to yield 6.34%.
The bonds are insured by MBIA Corp. and are rated triple-A by
both Moody's and Standard  Poor's Corp.
   The New York Power Authority's 6.5% issues of 2019
finished 1/2 point higher at 100 1/4 to yield 6.46%.
   These issues were aided by the overall rise in municipal
prices, as well as purchases by investors seeking to avoid
New York state appropriation-backed bonds, dealers said.
   Elsewhere, investors showed healthy demand for more than
$307 million of new issues, allowing underwriters to reprice
some bonds, lowering yields as much as 0.10 percentage point.
                                                                                                       

   Mortgage  Asset-Backed Securities
                                                                                                       

   Prices of mortgage securities ended higher, led by issues
from the Government National Mortgage Association.
   Ginnie Maes lagged behind issues from the Federal Home
Loan Mortgage Corp. and the Federal National Mortgage
Association on Monday due to profit-taking. But yesterday,
underwriters took advantage of the lower prices to gather up
Ginnie Maes for collateral in new real estate mortgage
investment conduit, or Remic, deals.
   In new-issue action, Goldman, Sachs  Co. offered a $300
million Fannie Mae Remic, series 1992-G12, which was backed
by Ginnie Mae 10% mortgage securities.
   In secondary trading, Ginnie Mae 7.5% securities for
January delivery jumped 17/ 32 to 100 27/32. Freddie Mac Gold
7.5% issues and Fannie Mae 7.5% issues registered nominal 3/8
point gains, at 100 1/32 and 99 29/32, respectively.
   Market players await today's report of prepayments on
Fannie Mae securities in December.
   As was the case with the Freddie Mac mid-November to
mid-December prepayment data released last week, most
analysts look for the biggest increases in the 9.5% to 10.5%
mortgage securities. Those securities were most sensitive to
mortgage refinancing, they say.