International:
   Baker Is Wooing Central Asian Republics
   ---
   U.S. Discovers They Look
   To the West for Help;
   Role by Turkey Likely
   ----
   By Robert S. Greenberger
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Mr. Baker is appealing to these republics with the promise
of diplomatic relations and U.S. economic help, provided they
live up to a U.S. formula calling for a commitment to
democracy, market economies and human rights. The presidents
of these nations are only too happy to accommodate him. "The
leaders of the Central Asian republics are secularized
leaders who tend to look to the West," says a senior U.S.
official traveling with Mr. Baker.
   A number of the elected presidents of the new republics
are, in fact, the same old communists that led them before
the Soviet Union crumbled. These leaders have little interest
in strengthening Islamic fundamentalists, who are their
natural enemies. In Ashkhabad, the capital of Turkmenistan, a
large statue of Lenin still looks out over a main avenue, not
far from where that nation's president told Mr. Baker earlier
this week that he wants U.S. private investment to help
bolster the country's oil, natural-gas and cotton production
and to build a Caspian Sea port.
   The U.S., interested mainly in preventing instability in
Central Asia, won't expend nearly as much energy on these
republics as it will on vast, nuclear-armed Russia. So, once
the Bush administration establishes diplomatic ties with the
three states Mr. Baker is visiting, Turkey probably will
become the middleman that will help U.S. businesses build
economic links.
   The Central Asians, who have shared in Soviet economic
failures for 70 years and have watched the Iranian economic
failure during the past decade, want to emulate Turkey's
secular yet Islamic state.
   "We very much welcome the Turkish model of development,"
President Islam Karimov of Uzbekistan, Central Asia's most
populous state, told a gathering of U.S. business executives
and academics in Davos, Switzerland, last month. Mr. Baker
will be visiting Uzbekistan this weekend.
   Turkey, which has been active diplomatically in the region
since the Soviet Union went out of existence in December,
initially approached the European Community to back major
programs in the Central Asian republics. But the Europeans
weren't interested, according to a U.S. official. An official
traveling with Mr. Baker said a meeting in Washington earlier
this week between President Bush and Turkish Prime Minister
Suleyman Demirel focused on what the U.S. could do to bolster
Turkey's efforts in the republics.
   Meanwhile, Turkey, in an effort to vie with Iran, is
taking such small steps as sending typewriters with Roman
letters to Central Asian republics, sending Turkish
newspapers there and planning to bring 1,000 Central Asian
students to Turkey. Turkic languages are spoken in
Uzbekistan, Kazakhstan, Azerbaijan, Turkmenistan and
Kyrgyzstan.
   Iran also has been active in the region, sending numerous
trade missions and copies of the Koran to the Central Asian
republics.
   The U.S. was late in paying attention to most of the
Central Asian states, and Mr. Baker is trying to make up for
lost time. Initially, when the U.S. granted diplomatic
recognition to six former Soviet republics, only two Central
Asian ones were included -- Kazakhstan and Kyrgyzstan.
   Mr. Baker indicated this week that the U.S. will grant
diplomatic recognition to the three remaining Central Asian
states as soon as they accept the U.S. principles. Although
some of the states have poor or questionable human-rights
records, an official traveling with Mr. Baker said the
republics would be evaluated based on their future
"performance against the promises" they have made. The
official suggested that the U.S. could withhold economic
benefits if it is dissatisfied with the record.
   Meanwhile, Mr. Baker is emphasizing in his meetings here
the economic benefits of diplomatic relations with the U.S.
For example, an American offical said, he is leaving at each
stop copies of the old U.S.Soviet trade agreement, bilateral
investment treaties and tax treaties "just to show them
models of relationships."
   Some analysts say it is important for the U.S. to stress
that it is ready to help these nations develop economically.
"We can't give them the sense that we're just trying to keep
them away from {radical} Islam. If that seems to rank high on
our agenda, then we're headed for real problems," says Graham
Fuller, a former Central Intelligence Agency official who now
is an analyst at Rand Corp., a California think tank.