Jack Eckerd Bid
   For Revco D.S.
   Is Called Off
   ----
   By Gabriella Stern
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
In a sense, Eckerd, a closely held drugstore operator
based in Clearwater, Fla., exits the fray not much worse for
the wear: Under an agreement with Revco, Eckerd will receive
$7.5 million to cover expenses incurred in the bidding
process. A spokesman for Eckerd expressed disappointment in
the outcome, which came after a contentious eight months.
Since expressing interest in Revco last spring, Eckerd saw
rival Rite Aid Corp. withdraw from the bidding and gained
substantial creditor support, only to see Revco offer its own
plan in a surprise move and then sweeten it last month with
the help of Zell/Chilmark Fund L.P., a Chicago investment
group run by Sam Zell and David Schulte.
   Zell/Chilmark promised creditors as much as $250 million
as a cash alternative to common stock in the new Revco. Mr.
Schulte's Chilmark Partners L.P. had been an adviser to Revco
noteholders, but quit that role last month to work with Revco
management.
   Now, Zell/Chilmark is counting on Revco to continue the
improvements in month-by-month performance that it has turned
in since last May. Brad Scheler, an attorney for Revco
noteholders, said it may not be a bad bet: Revco reported
January 1992 sales of $185 million, up from $163 million a
year ago, while January operating income was $7.3 million,
compared with a loss of $83,000 in January 1991. Mr. Scheler
added, "the new Revco's very attractive as a de-leveraged,
stand-alone retail drug chain with modernized equipment, as
best evidenced by recent operating results."
   Mark Schnitzer, an analyst with Dabney/Resnick  Wagner
Inc., Beverly Hills, Calif., said there were no losers in the
agreement. "Both sides won," he said. "Eckerd's being paid to
just walk away from this thing, and Zell and Revco management
are going to get to turn the company around." Mr. Schnitzer
valued the Eckerd plan at $795 million and Revco's plan at
$803 million, based on Zell/Chilmark's commitment to pay
$7.47 for each Revco common share.
   Spokesmen for two other creditor groups -- drugstore
distributors and banks -- said that by bowing out, Eckerd
avoided the likelihood of an inconclusive vote by creditors
on the two plans. In that case, the bankruptcy judge in
Akron, Ohio, would have been forced to choose one of the
plans, and might have gone with Revco in order to save jobs
and keep stores open.