Nominee for Commerce Secretary Vows
   To Be `Forceful Advocate' for Business
   ----
   By Eduardo Lachica
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
A committee staff member said the panel probably would
vote to recommend her confirmation soon after Congress
returns from its Presidents' Day recess Feb. 17. Ms. Franklin
would succeed Robert Mosbacher, who left the post Jan. 15 to
become general chairman of President Bush's re-election
campaign.
   The panel was heartened by Ms. Franklin's pledge to be a
champion for business. In the past, the Commerce Department
had been outvoted by the State Department, the Pentagon and
other federal agencies on various trade issues, resulting in
policies unfavorable to certain U.S. industries. Ms. Franklin
asserted that "balance must be part of the debate in weighing
national security interests against commercial
considerations."
   Ms. Franklin also acknowledged that the U.S. is engaged in
fierce economic competition with global rivals for markets
and jobs -- a perspective that Mr. Bush himself has only
belatedly recognized as a top foreign-policy issue. "Battles
today are not between armies but between the economic
interests of various nations," she said.
   Some Democrats on the Senate panel, including Chairman
Ernest Hollings of South Carolina, asked her to spell out a
program for making U.S. companies more competitive. They
lectured her at length on the department's alleged failings
in enforcing laws against dumping, or the sale of imported
goods at prices below their home-market prices or production
costs. Ms. Franklin agreed with their concerns but didn't
offer specific remedies except to say that she would
"vigorously" enforce the statutes.
   The nominee also said that she would consider easing
antitrust restraints to allow the Big Three domestic
automakers to pool their resources for refining the use of
methanol and other alternative motor fuels. She cautioned,
however, against the use of "Japan-bashing" as a trade
strategy. "There are other ways," she asserted.
   Documents submitted to the committee indicated that Ms.
Franklin's prospective public service would cost her and her
husband, businessman Wallace Barnes, a bundle of personal
benefits. The couple has already indicated that if she is
confirmed for the post, they would sell their holdings in 30
different companies. Ms. Franklin, moreover, would resign
from the boards of Aetna Life  Casualty Co., Armstrong World
Industries Inc., Automatic Data Processing Inc., Black 
Decker Corp., Dow Chemical Co., Nordstrom Inc. and
Westinghouse Electric Corp.
   To avoid possible conflicts of interest, Ms. Franklin
would have to recuse herself from decisions relating to the
auto parts and aerospace components industries. Auto parts
are a major part of the business of Barnes Group, the
Bristol, Conn., company of which her husband is chairman. Mr.
Barnes has stock holdings and is a board member of Rohr
Industries Inc., a Chula Vista, Calif., manufacturer of
aircraft and jet-engine parts.
   Ms. Franklin also would sell her holdings in Aetna,
although her husband would remain a member of Aetna's board
and retain his stock in the insurance company. Mr. Barnes
also would retain his stock and his title in the Barnes
Group, which has been in the Barnes family for more than a
century.
   In addition, the nominee would recuse herself from taking
part in any policymaking decisions involving the domestic
insurance business, although she could deal with policies
relating to the opening of foreign markets for U.S. insurers.