Marketing  Media:
   Carolco Says Foreign Partners to Invest
   $45 Million, Allow Payment Deferral
   ----
   By David J. Jefferson
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The foreign partners, who have local distribution rights
to Carolco's films, are Pioneer LDCA Inc., an affiliate of
Pioneer Electronics Corp. of Tokyo; RCS Video International
Services B.V., an affiliate of Italy's Rizzoli Corriere della
Sera Group; and Le Studio Canal+, a subsidiary of France's
Canal S.A.
   The financing is designed to keep Carolco running and give
it the money it needs to get its four 1992 films -- "Basic
Instinct," "Universal Soldier," "Charlie" and "Cliffhanger"
-- out the door and into theaters. The financing wouldn't
cover future productions, but Carolco said yesterday that
Canal and RCS "intend to support the continuation of the
company's feature motion picture production activities."
   Carolco said its banks -- led by the French bank Credit
Lyonnais and Bankers Trust Co., a unit of Bankers Trust New
York Corp. -- have tenatively agreed to the financing
arrangement, which was hammered out in protracted
negotiations over the last several weeks. As of Dec. 15,
Carolco had nearly $172 million of loans outstanding, and the
company has been in technical default.
   News of the agreement pushed Carolco's shares up 50 cents
to $2.50 in late New York Stock Exchange trading.
   "I think it's very good news for Carolco," said Steven E.
Hill, an analyst with Sutro  Co. in San Francisco. "Is it
enough? Well, it may be enough to get them on their feet."
   The financing is contingent upon the successful completion
of Carolco's current offer to reedeem its $67.5 million of
14% senior notes, with at least a majority of notes being
tendered by Jan. 28, the expiration date. Covenants of the
higher-coupon senior notes have proved a stumbling block to
Carolco, and the company had tried for months to arrange a
redemption before it finally launched one in December.
Successful completion of the redemption is still a big
question mark, since the prospective redemption price of
between 65 cents and 85 cents on the dollar is well below
what was once expected.
   The financing agreement also is conditioned on Carolco's
negotiating a new employment agreement with Chairman Mario F.
Kassar, whose contract expired Dec. 31. Carolco's president
and chief executive officer, Peter Hoffman, is set to leave
the company March 31 when his contract expires, and if a
successor isn't named by then, Mr. Kassar will temporarily
fill those posts.
   Another condition of the accord is that Live Entertainment
reach an agreement with its banks to extend its present
borrowing capacity until Nov. 30. Carolco failed late last
year to complete an acquisition of Live, a home-video
concern, and in its offering circular for the note
redemption, Carolco cautioned that uncertainties about
financing at Live "raise substantial doubt about Live's
ability to continue as a going concern."