Who's News:
   Time Warner's Shake-Up Puts Spotlight
   On Firm's Low-Profile Adviser Aboodi
   ----
   By Randall Smith
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
As the company's in-house investment banker, Mr. Aboodi's
deal-making skills helped shape the 1989 acquisition of
Warner Communications Inc. by Time Inc., as well as last
year's controversial $2.7 billion stock rights offering by
Time Warner.
   "No question about it, he is the power behind the throne,"
one investment banker said yesterday.
   At Time Warner, Mr. Aboodi is the gatekeeper for Wall
Street investment bankers vying to collect fat fees for
juggling the company's assets. He also helped Mr. Ross
negotiate lucrative compensation packages for Mr. Ross and
other executives, which have drawn criticism from shareholder
groups. And he oversees certain financial investments and tax
planning programs for Mr. Ross and other top Time Warner
executives. Mr. Aboodi declined to be interviewed for this
article.
   Born in Jerusalem, Mr. Aboodi, 50 years old, came to the
U.S. in 1956 and earned undergraduate and business degrees
from New York University. His close ties to Mr. Ross date
back to 1966, when Mr. Aboodi managed the account of Warner's
corporate predecessor at the accounting firm of Arthur
Andersen  Co. In 1980, he formed Alpine, where most of his
work has been for Warner.
   Felix Rohatyn, senior partner at Lazard Freres  Co. who
advised Time Warner on a pending $1 billion investment in the
company by two Japanese companies, says of Mr. Aboodi: "His
great virtue is that he has no personal agenda. He is
completely in tune with the way Steve thinks, which is not
the simplest thing in the world. And he can carry out these
extraordinarily complicated structures that Steve draws up."
   Colleagues praise Mr. Aboodi's low-key style. "He can
negotiate in a most friendly, disarmingly effective way,"
says James Harmon, chairman of Wertheim Schroder  Co. "He
can be tough without alienating you. He doesn't make it
personal," adds Michael Garin, an investment banker at Furman
Selz Inc. "He has no ego, no pride of authorship," says
Robert Pittman, a top Time Warner executive.
   One investment banker marveled last fall at how unusual it
is for a non-employee to be one of the most influential
executives at such a large corporation. This banker said Mr.
Aboodi then ranked behind only Mr. Ross, Mr. Nicholas and Mr.
Levin. Indeed, Mr. Aboodi's role has frustrated some
investment bankers who would prefer to play a more
influential role themselves.
   "{Mr.} Aboodi works long hours, all hours of the day; he's
very much involved in all the strategic things that go on
there; he's probably the most active non-employee adviser,"
said one investment banker who worked on both the merger and
the rights offering.
   One issue that led to Mr. Nicholas's ouster was a new
financial structure, crafted and championed by Mr. Aboodi,
that would allow Time Warner to keep control of its assets
while gaining cash from new investors to reduce its $8.7
billion of debt and $6 billion of preferred stock.
   Mr. Nicholas is said to have favored a simpler, outright
sale of some assets to reduce debt. But that would have
undercut the promise of global synergies among Time Warner's
disparate media properties, cited as one main reason for the
1989 merger.
   Under the Aboodi-designed structure, Time Warner plans to
create a new subsidiary of its movie, cable TV and TV
programming units as a vehicle to gain new equity investment.
The first investment is a planned $1 billion from two
Japanese companies for a 12.5% stake. But to do that, Time
Warner must refinance its bank debt and spend more than $1
billion to purchase publicly held shares of its cable
company.
   Because Mr. Aboodi isn't a Time Warner employee, his
annual pay isn't disclosed, as is the compensation of Mr.
Ross and the company's other highest-paid executives.
However, his stature became apparent when it was dislosed
that Alpine received a $6 million fee for its work on the
Time Warner merger. "He was not terribly well known prior to
that time," says media analyst John Reidy of Smith Barney,
Harris Upham  Co.
   Mr. Aboodi also plays a role in a $250 million merchant
banking fund run by Wertheim Schroder in which Time Warner is
a big investor. That fund is an investor in the $710 million
leveraged acquisition of the Six Flags Corp. amusement park
operator by a group led by Blackstone Group and Time Warner.
   Some investment bankers are eager to heap praise on Mr.
Aboodi. "I consider him to be one of the most brilliant,
imaginative financial engineers that I have met in 30-plus
years of investment banking activity," says Wertheim's James
Harmon.
   ---
   Corrections  Amplifications
                                                                                                       

   ODED "ED" ABOODI, an adviser to Time Warner Inc. chairman
Steven J. Ross, formerly worked at the accounting firm Arthur
Young  Co. The firm's name was misstated in yesterday's
edition.
   (WSJ Feb. 26, 1992)