Business Bulletin:
   A Special Background Report
   On Trends in Industry
   And Finance
   ----
   By Pamela Sebastian
Rapid growth in data transmission via phone lines adds
cost pressure to firms. FMC Corp. recently negotiated a
three-year pact that "saved us about $1 million a year," says
FMC official Phillip Evans. He believes that ATT may have to
hold increases well below 5% to keep business. But Jack
Grubman, a PaineWebber Inc. analyst, notes competitors like
MCI Telecommunications and U.S. Sprint like the increases
"since this lets them raise prices too."
   Popular 800-numbers may be a big issue in 1993 when firms
can switch carriers and maintain "vanity" numbers.
                                                                                                       

   `MYSTERY MEALS' appear in a department store restaurant
and so do profits.
   The dining room of Stern's Department Store in a Wayne,
N.J., mall used to be a money-loser, serving lunches for
about $5 and closing at 5 p.m. Now, it runs in the black,
selling $35 tickets for its mystery dinner theater two nights
a week. Who done it? Rena Levy, head of food services, and PM
Productions, a licensee of Boston's Mystery Cafe. "I grossed
$20,000 the first 13 weeks," says Ms. Levy. Dinner shows are
in the works at other Stern's restaurants.
   For the store, which is open until 9:30 p.m. anyway, the
deal is simple: It acts as a "caterer" preparing the meals in
downtime and reaping proceeds from a cash bar. "If I get 15
people I make a profit," says Ms. Levy. PM Productions, whose
waiting staff is also the cast, says the store shows are
"very much more profitable" than its hotel dinner trade in
recession-weary Cape Cod, Mass. The next plan: bus tours that
bring retirees and others to mall matinees.
                                                                                                       

   BIG LAW FIRM immigration staffs draw fees in poor economy,
at least for now.
   The 1980s buildup of immigration law staffs slows, but new
laws plus heightened activity in Eastern Europe help offset
the lull. Immigration advice is a major service to corporate
clients, says Peter Larrabee, who heads the immigration group
for Gray, Cary, Ames  Frye in San Diego. Still, he notes the
recession has made some firms wary about starting a group.
Recent entries like labor specialist Proskauer Rose Goetz 
Mendelsohn in New York cite the many, new immigration reforms
for the expansion.
   Instead of going after volume business from amnesty
seekers and nannies, firms ply their trade with Blue Chip
clients. New U.S. rules for employers, like restrictions on
hiring workers with temporary visas, help that trend. So does
the opening of more global markets. Chicago's McDermott, Will
 Emery, which recently opened an immigration unit in Boston,
says a good part of its bread-and-butter work is in helping
U.S. executives get visas for foreign countries.
   "Immigration law has become much more labor- and
employment-related," says Lowell Gettman of Proskauer.
                                                                                                       

   BUY AN AMERICAN CAR, says Brown Paper Co. to its 50
employees, and the Greenwich, Conn., firm will kick in
$1,000. Douglas Brown, president, says the sagging economy
prompted him "to try something new in '92." Mr. Brown
recently bought his first American car (he didn't get the
bonus) in 15 years -- a Cadillac Seville STS.
                                                                                                       

   BAILING OUT BOATS for banks who had to repossess adds up
for National Liquidators of Ft. Lauderdale Inc. Its auction
sales more than doubled to $7 million in 1991 and are likely
to double again this year.
                                                                                                       

   COLD ON THE COB. Supplies of field corn are tight this
winter, but there's plenty of frozen sweet corn -- 1.2
billion pounds, or 13% more than last year, says the Food
Institute, New Jersey. Carry-over inventory is a factor,
rising 53% for cut corn and 151% for cob corn. Meanwhile,
sweet-corn list prices slip about 10%.
                                                                                                       

   THE RETURNS ARE IN as retailers grin and bear
post-Christmas exchanges.
   A Sears, Roebuck  Co. spokesman says returns are "down
dramatically" at several stores, perhaps because many
consumers bought practical gifts they knew recipients needed.
One Sears manager noted she saw more people clutching
shopping lists this Christmas than ever before. Target
Stores, a unit of Dayton Hudson Corp., says its returns are
running about the same as a year ago with most people again
wanting cash, not merchandise exchanges.
   Most Kmart customers also wanted cash and the chain's
return volume is up about 5% from last year. "Nobody likes to
see a return, but it's part of the cost of doing business,"
says Kurt Barnard of Barnard's Retail Marketing Report.
Still, in today's "fiercely cutthroat market" nothing is more
important than customer service, he adds.
   In December, industrywide same-store sales rose only 2%
above depressed levels of a year ago.
                                                                                                       

   BRIEFS: A car seen in Chicago bears on its license plate
"No Hope." A forlorn Cubs fan? . . . This movie series opens
at Lincoln Center's Walter Reade Theater in New York: "It
Can't Happen Here: Films of the Great Depression" . . .
Paradise New York, a West Side craft gallery, warns that
"Shoplifters will be beaten to death."