Short Interest
   On Big Board
   Declined 4.2%
   ---
   Amex Positions Were Down
   By Under 1% in Period;
   BankAmerica Had Gain
   ----
   By Robert J. Brennan
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
While the stock market has generally moved up over the
longer term, short sale funds have been sliding in value.
Harry Strunk, an investment adviser in West Palm Beach, Fla.,
who tracks several short-sale funds, said they are down as a
group by nearly 10% for the year to date. He said the "pure
shorts," those who have no hedging purchases of stocks, are
off even more.
   BankAmerica again led the list, as its short interest rose
to 17.8 million shares from 12.3 million at the mid-February
month. Arbitragers continue to short BankAmerica and buy up
Security Pacific Corp. ahead of the banks' pending merger,
which is expected by the end of April. Arbs buy one company's
shares and sell short the other's, betting on small market
price discrepancies from the valuation of the merger.
   Chrysler Corp. short interest shot up to 10.8 million
shares from 6.3 million. The auto maker's shares had risen
nearly 70% since December, but great uncertainties remain
about how it will manage its financial difficulties such as
renewing financing for its financial services unit.
   Several companies that have had high short interest levels
recently saw substantial declines in the recent month as
short sellers bought shares to cover their positions.
Telefonica de Espana, Spain's telephone company, dropped to
407,000 American depositary receipts from 9.4 million the
month before. Arbitragers had played spreads between
valuation of the company's shares in Spain and the ADRs in
the U.S.
   Unisys, apparently on the way to a turnaround after two
years of poor results, saw short interest slide to 5.6
million shares from 10.2 million. The computer company had a
good 1991 fourth quarter and is forecasting improvement in
the current first quarter.
   American Telephone  Telegraph Co. short interest dropped
to 4.6 million from nine million shares. The company, even
though it turned out lackluster results, is still being
recommended by many analysts who think it is undervalued.
   Citicorp, long a high short-interest company, saw the
position drop to 7.3 million from 10.6 million shares. The
banking giant's share price has moved up in the last few
months from below $10 to a current $17. And Blockbuster
Entertainment Co., also a longtime short leader, was down to
9.1 million shares from 11.7 million. Chairman Wayne Huizenga
exercised warrants last month and sold two million shares to
a unit of Philips N.V., the electronics company.
   New York Stock Exchange short interest fell at the March
13 settlement date to 691,075,613 shares from 721,935,672 at
midFebruary. On the Amex, short interest fell to 62,297,949
shares from an adjusted 62,598,435 shares. The month included
the 19 trading days through March 6.
   At mid-March 1991, short volume was 732,687,616 shares on
the Big Board.
   Traders who sell short borrow stock and sell it, betting
that the stock's price will decline and that they can buy the
shares back later at a lower price for return to the lender.
   Short interest is the number of shares that haven't yet
been purchased for return to lenders. Although a substantial
short position reflects heavy speculation that a stock's
price will decline, some investors consider an increase in
short interest bullish because the borrowed shares eventually
must be bought back.
   Fluctuation in short interest of certain stocks also may
be caused partly by arbitraging. The figures occasionally
include incomplete transactions in restricted stock.
   The level of negative sentiment measured by the Big Board
short interest ratio moved up to 3.36 from mid-February's
3.06. But the ratio generally has been moving down. The ratio
is the number of trading days at the exchange's average daily
trading volume that would be required to convert the total
short interest position. Average daily New York exchange
volume for the 19 trading days was 214,669,473 shares. Some
analysts suggest, however, that the ratio has weakened in
value as an indicator because options and other products can
be used to hedge short positions.
   The following tables show the Big Board and Amex issues in
which a short interest position of at least 100,000 shares
existed at mid-March, or in which the short position had
changed by at least 50,000 shares since mid-February (see
accompanying tables -- WSJ Mar. 20, 1992).