Marketing:
   Palmer Tees Up
   Tiny ProGroup
   Over Royalties
   ----
   By Martha Brannigan
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Mr. Palmer, who has had about a 10% stake in ProGroup Inc.
since signing the royalty pact in 1972, is leading a group
that includes several other major shareholders. The group
includes Arthur P. Becker, a Bear, Stearns  Co. associate
director, and two former top executives of Wilson Sporting
Goods Co. The group will try to oust all but one of
ProGroup's current board members at the annual meeting Feb.
11 and install its own slate to get the company out of the
rough, according to a Securities and Exchange Commission
filing.
   Mr. Palmer is motivated at least in part by his royalty
arrangement, which the company said provides him with a mere
$50,000 a year from ProGroup, no matter what the company's
sales. In some good years, the company has voluntarily paid
as much as $100,000, it said. The agreement doesn't expire
until the year 2002, and the dissident shareholder group
plans to renegotiate a contract with Mr. Palmer that would
increase his pay and would include new international
marketing rights.
   But the royalty pact isn't the only issue. Mr. Palmer's
group says the company is a chronic underperformer. In 1991
it earned just $320,000, or 14 cents a share, vs. $1.2
million, or 44 cents a share, in 1982. Sales rose to $32.8
million last year from $22.3 million in 1982. Palmer-branded
goods generated about $9 million of sales in 1991.
   Mr. Palmer got involved with ProGroup when it bailed out
his own foundering company in 1972 by acquiring it for stock.
   ProGroup concedes that some of Mr. Palmer's peers probably
make in excess of $1 million for endorsements at other
sporting goods companies. But ProGroup says it simply can't
afford to pay that much on such small sales. "Some guys get
$1.2 million just to carry a golf bag with a certain name on
it. The problem is we're a tiny little company that can't
afford to pay what's demanded. It's not an appropriate amount
for us, and that's led to Arnold's disenchantment," says John
M. Tucker, who has been chief executive officer of the
company for more than 20 years. "We've had to say, `Sorry,
Arnold.'"
   Mr. Tucker, also chairman and president, said the
company's results reflect a fiercely competitive and
saturated golf clubs market, dominated by foreign-owned
giants. Indeed, he says, the company is successfully
navigating its problems by expanding its golf-wear and other
sales.
   The insurgent group declined to comment beyond its SEC
filing, but it clearly hopes to shake up little ProGroup and
get it moving. The group controls 22.8% of the company's
shares outstanding.
   In late national over-the-counter trading yesterday,
ProGroup was quoted at $8 a share, up 50 cents, giving the
company a current market value of $18.8 million.
   The Palmer group would like to oust Mr. Tucker and install
Richard E. Wenz, a former executive vice president and chief
financial officer for Wilson, who has been credited as being
instrumental in turning that company around in the 1980s. Mr.
Becker would become chairman.
   John P. Murray, Jr., a former chairman of Wilson, would
join the board, the dissident group's SEC filing says.