U.S. Executives
   In Japan With Bush
   See Many Barriers
   ---
   TRW, Air Products Chiefs,
   Having Cracked Market,
   Claim Access Is Limited
   ----
   By Urban C. Lehner and Masayoshi Kanabayashi
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
"We are world leaders in chemicals, telecommunications,
pharmaceuticals -- I could go on and on," Mr. Baker says.
Japan prefers to manufacture domestically, he asserts, and
the reason is its "historic reluctance to become dependent on
foreign suppliers."
   Joseph Gorman, president of TRW Inc. and another member of
Mr. Bush's entourage, warns that Japan's reluctance to buy
foreign-made goods is whipping up a "thunderstorm of
protectionism" in the U.S.
   What makes these comments remarkable is that Air Products
of Allentown, Pa., and Cleveland's TRW are often cited as
success stories among U.S. companies trying to crack the
Japanese market. Each has sales of about $500 million a year
in Japan. TRW's sales in Japan have increased tenfold in the
six years since Mr. Gorman took the helm.
   But both still think Japan is far less open to foreign
products than Europe or the U.S. "We are the absolute leader
in every {auto-parts} product line we're in in Europe," says
Mr. Gorman, but "we don't have even 2%" market share in any
product line in Japan. "Think of what our position would have
been but for their closed market for 40 years."
   But when Messrs. Baker and Gorman say all of this to top
executives of Japanese companies, as they did in a meeting
here Thursday, they change few minds. Their Japanese
counterparts think the Japanese market is as open as any in
the world. "The Japanese believe that much of the problem is
attributable to what we and we alone control," says Mr.
Gorman.
   So sharp is the clash of viewpoints that it is almost as
if the two business communities were looking at entirely
different worlds. And the Japanese participants seem as
convinced as their American colleagues that their own
position is correct. "Unless {the products} have
competitiveness in terms of quality, there is a limit in what
purchasers can do," says Masaru Hayami, chairman of the Japan
Association of Corporate Executives.
   Yusuke Kashiwagi, chairman of Bank of Tokyo Ltd., says he
"can't fully understand why" the breakfast meeting was held.
"We heard the same argument we have heard many times before,"
Mr. Kashiwagi says. "There seems to be nothing new" in the
U.S. assertions.
   One weak spot in the Americans' armor was the inclusion of
the Big Three U.S. auto makers' chief executives in the Bush
entourage. Rightly or wrongly, it weakened the Americans'
overall case with the Japanese, who are certain that their
cars are much better than Detroit's. And critics say the
Japanese tend to leap from "We make better autos and
electronics products" to "We make everything better."
   Earlier this week, on the eve of Mr. Bush's arrival, Prime
Minister Kiichi Miyazawa told a group of American journalists
that "we will continue to do our best" to remove barriers to
foreign products. But, he confessed, "sometimes we don't know
how to go about it."
   Messrs. Gorman and Baker have some suggestions. Mr. Gorman
would like Japanese companies to open up to foreign suppliers
their groups of intertwined companies. Mr. Baker says Japan
should change numerous product standards that he says were
set up expressly to promote locally made products over
imports.
   From Thursday's and previous meetings, Mr. Gorman thinks
Japanese executives are "sincere," and Mr. Baker concedes
that Japan is changing. But, he complains, "the rate of
change is so slow that we will be discussing this with our
grandchildren."
   Both executives laud Mr. Bush for bringing them to Japan.
It shows, they argue, that the U.S. government is finally
standing up for the U.S. economy and standing behind American
business. Mr. Baker calls Mr. Bush "the chairman of our board
-- U.S. Inc."
   That may bother Americans used to a more confrontational
business-government relationship and unconvinced that what is
in the interest of U.S. business is always in America's wider
interest. But top Japanese executives are favorably
impressed.
   Yotaro Kobayashi, president of Fuji Xerox Co., the
Japanese affiliate of Xerox Corp., says he heard Commerce
Secretary Robert Mosbacher make similar comments at the
breakfast meeting and thought, "This is something
interesting."
   "I felt if this is one indication through which the
government and business groups can work together in the
future, I could be more hopeful of their ability to jointly
come to grips with the problems and produce some tangible
results," he says.