Former Brokers
   Ordered to Repay
   Compensations
   ----
   By Jonathan M. Moses
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The four brokers are part of a group of 11 former Moran
salespeople sued by the Securities and Exchange Commission in
December 1990 as part of a civil investigation into Moran and
the penny-stock business. There was a related criminal
investigation involving the owner of Moran, John T. Moran,
who pleaded guilty last year to four securities-fraud related
charges.
   Judge Edelstein barred the four, Benjamin M. Hasho,
William X. Mecca, Robert B. Yule and Aurelio Vuono, from
breaking securities laws again. If they do, they may face
criminal contempt charges.
   The SEC also could seek an administrative order barring
them from the securities industry. The SEC has done so with
other brokers linked to Moran, but officials wouldn't comment
on whether the agency plans to seek a similar order for these
four.
   Attorneys for the four did not return phone calls seeking
comment. The other seven settled their case with the SEC.
   Judge Edelstein, one of the most senior trial judges on
the federal bench in Manhattan, where many securities
industry related cases are heard, used his 136-page opinion
to excoriate the four brokers and high-pressure brokerage
sales tactics.
   "Defendants' conduct here is akin to dealers of
`three-card monte' who prey upon unwary individuals by
holding out the promise of easy money," Judge Edelstein
wrote. "Defendants did more than harm their clients; their
actions destroy investor confidence, pollute the environment
for securities transactions, and bring disgrace and shame
upon Wall Street."
   In a trial last year before Judge Edelstein, the SEC
presented testimony by former brokers that the four used high
pressure sales tactics to force unwary customers to buy
securities that were highly speculative and proved to have
little value. Evidence also included phone scripts from Moran
that assisted brokers when they made their "cold calls."
   "This decision shows that the courts and SEC have an
interest in going after the low people on the totem pole, not
just the top guys," said Martin A. Kupenberg, associate
regional administrator of the SEC's New York office.