Politics  Policy:
   Quayle Finds
   Campaign Trail
   A Rough Road
   ----
   By John Harwood
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
"One of the reasons we're here is to see what's on your
mind," Mr. Quayle said on his first campaign trip to this
critical first test of the 1992 election. While acknowledging
that "our first responsibility is here at home," the vice
president added: "We do have world responsibilities, too."
   But the vice president didn't find much of a receptive
audience in this environment of economic distress.
   "Mr. Quayle, how about if we stop the foreign aid and take
care of our own people," said Ed Grygorcewicz, a 47-year-old
machinist who backed Mr. Bush four years ago but is looking
for a candidate "who can help us" this time around. "It's a
shame when you see people out there not eating, begging for
food."
   The sharp words that the vice president heard here on his
first day suggest that President Bush may have some problems
with his political health in this economically depressed
state. Mr. Bush is scheduled to campaign here next week,
where announcements of layoffs have become commonplace,
including 240 this week at Kollsman Instrument Co., the
defense contractor that employs Mr. Grygorcewicz's wife.
   To buttress Mr. Bush's calls for free international trade,
Mr. Quayle chose to visit two plants that are prospering on
the strength of overseas business. Neither of them --
Ferrofluidics Corp., a magnetic fluid manufacturing facility,
and an Ingersoll-Rand Co. pulp-machinery plant where Mr.
Grygorcewicz works -- has laid off workers recently.
   Sen. Warren Rudman, who accompanied Mr. Quayle on the
trip, acknowledged that the White House faces a challenge in
convincing the state's voters that Mr. Bush can end the
recession. "Unfortunately, there is nothing you can do for
this economy that will change things rapidly," the New
Hampshire Republican said. But he sought to deflect blame for
hard times to New England's private sector, saying many of
the region's problems were selfinflicted by speculative
investments.
   "I didn't vote for the loans that those banks made," Sen.
Rudman said. "Neither did George Bush or Dan Quayle."
   Amid polls showing rising discontent here and across the
country with Mr. Bush's economic stewardship, Mr. Quayle
insisted that the White House "got the message" to pay more
attention to problems at home. At the same time, the vice
president told New Hampshire voters "don't send a message of
protectionism" by supporting Mr. Buchanan, who is campaigning
as a "trade hawk" who will put "America first."
   Mr. Quayle arrived in New Hampshire in an atmosphere of
heightened tension following reports that the president had
collapsed from flu-related nausea in Japan. The news quickly
swelled the press contingent accompanying Mr. Quayle to about
75 from 60.
   Mr. Quayle's aides said the hubbub surrounding Mr. Bush's
health would only briefly distract attention from the vice
president's twin campaign missions, countering attacks by
conservative challenger Buchanan and improving his own
lackluster public image.
   "Once people realize that the president's fine we'll get
our attention back on the campaign," said Mr. Quayle's
spokesman, David Beckwith.
   In addition to helping Mr. Bush's reelection efforts, Mr.
Quayle also hopes to turn around his lingering negative image
among voters in New Hampshire and nationally from the 1988
campaign. "They'll get a vastly different impression of him,"
Mr. Beckwith promised. To that end, Sen. Rudman said he had
reacted with "great pleasure" to a lengthy series of articles
about Mr. Quayle in the Washington Post this week, and said
it may help shore up the vice president's standing.
   The two-day visit, which concludes today, is the first of
a series of New Hampshire swings planned for Mr. Quayle and
Mr. Bush. The president will tour the state Jan. 15 after
returning from his Asia trip. Notwithstanding Mr. Buchanan's
daily jibes at the president, Mr. Quayle said Mr. Buchanan's
challenge has already helped Mr. Bush by "energizing" the
campaign ahead of schedule. The president's New Hampshire
campaign organization, led by Gov. Judd Gregg and his father,
former Gov. Hugh Gregg, have been complaining for months
about the slow start.
   ---
   David Shribman contributed to this article.