International:
   World Wire
   ----
   Compiled by Richard L. Holman
The Association of Southeast Asian Nations will create an
Asean Free Trade Area. Several member countries pledged to
cut tariffs well ahead of the 15-year deadline set for
completing Asia's first integrated regional market.
   The commitment to open a combined market of 330 million
people is potentially the most substantial economic
initiative in Asean's 25-year history. Previous attempts by
the Asean states -- Brunei, Indonesia, Malaysia, the
Philippines, Singapore and Thailand -- to foster closer
economic ties were ineffective. Tariffs on manufactured goods
will be cut gradually by the year 2008 to 5% or less,
effectively integrating Asean domestic markets.
   The agreement is the main element in the Singapore
Declaration signed at the summit, setting new long-term
economic and political goals for Asean.
   Asean also promised closer economic and political ties
with Indochina, indicating that Vietnam and Laos might become
Asean members in a few years.
                                                                                                       

   EC FARM STRUGGLE CONTINUES . . .
                                                                                                       

   European Community farm ministers agreed to continue their
struggle to revamp the EC's costly and much criticized
agricultural-subsidy regime, regardless of what happens in
the Uruguay round of world trade negotiations. But they
faltered in talks on how to overhaul the EC's common
agricultural policy. Moreover, several ministers acknowledged
that uncertainty about the outcome of the
trade-liberalization talks of the General Agreement on
Tariffs and Trade was hampering efforts for changes in the
EC's own agricultural policies.
                                                                                                       

   . . . AND INSURANCE RULES URGED
                                                                                                       

   The European Community Commission appealed for minimum
standards for insurance brokers. Creation of a single market
for insurance products could be impeded because standards
vary widely among EC states; some members, such as Germany,
don't have rules for brokers. The commission urged
governments by the end of 1994 to demand minimum
qualifications for insurance intermediaries, require greater
disclosure by independent policy sellers of their legal and
economic links to insurers, and set up compulsory national
registers of insurance brokers.
                                                                                                       

   RUSSIA MAY ALLOW ENTERPRISES

   Russia's Justice Ministry has sent a new criminal code to
legislators that would legalize most economic activities
barred under Communist rule. President Boris Yeltsin has
signed the draft allowing fair business deals. Still, prison
sentences would be allowed for creation of dummy firms, false
bankruptcy, bribery and artificially inflated prices. And the
code doesn't annul the ban on buying state-produced items and
selling them privately, known as "speculation."
                                                                                                       

   JAPAN WARNS U.S. ON BIAS
                                                                                                       

   Japan urged the U.S. to ensure that local governments
don't discriminate against foreign products when awarding
contracts and making purchases. The Japanese Foreign Ministry
said Washington is required by global trade pacts to remind
municipalities about these issues. The statement followed a
Los Angeles transit agency's cancellation of a $122 million
contract with a Japanese company, amid what is being viewed
as increasing U.S. protectionism.
                                                                                                       

   SOUTHERN AFRICAN MARKET SOUGHT
                                                                                                       

   The Southern African Development Coordination Conference
called for creation of a regional market to spur growth in
its member nations. The group, which is to hold its 12th
annual meeting this week in Mozambique, seeks to prevent
domination by the region's economic power, South Africa, once
it becomes a nonracial democracy. Issues to be addressed
include currencies and trade barriers. The members are
Angola, Botswana, Lesotho, Malawi, Mozambique, Namibia,
Swaziland, Tanzania, Zambia and Zimbabwe.
                                                                                                       

   POLLS SIGNAL MIGRATION TO WEST
                                                                                                       

   A European Community tally found that 13 million Eastern
Europeans and Russians are considering or planning a move to
the West. The findings could feed rising fears in Western
Europe about the effects of a large-scale migration.
   The EC Commission compiled the results from independent
polling groups, which interviewed more than 10,000 people in
six Eastern and Central European countries, the three Baltic
states and the European part of Russia. The October survey
found an overwhelmingly positive impression of life in the
West and of the EC, and dissatisfaction with home-country
situations and prospects.
   The pressure of extensive migration is already being felt
in the West, often fueling extremist reactions. Not only are
anti-immigrant politicians making gains in most EC countries,
but job seekers increasingly complain about competition from
migrant workers.
   While immigration is often viewed as a boon economically,
Western Europe's high unemployment rates and generous social
security systems make large-scale immigration politically
unpopular.
                                                                                                       

   POSTSCRIPTS . . .

   Aircraft accidents world-wide last year resulted in 1,090
deaths, up 78% from 1990 despite depressed passenger traffic
because of the Gulf War and global recession, Flight
International magazine said. The number of accidents rose 26%
to 44. But overall safety has improved, as passenger totals
have risen 50% since 1981. . . . Germany's highest court
overturned as discriminatory a law that banned overnight
manual jobs for women.