LEISURE  ARTS:
   A Producer's Life
   ----
   By Julie Salamon
Producers can pick scripts, raise money to turn the
scripts into movies, and then leave the making of the movie
to somebody else. Ms. Obst is the other kind of producer, who
figures out the money angle on every creative decision --
from casting all the way through marketing. She won't reveal
her fee, but says it falls somewhere in the "high middle" of
the average range of $200,000 to $750,000.
   At the very least, Ms. Obst is living well. The deal that
brought about "The Fisher King" built the swimming pool.
"This Is My Life," Nora Ephron's directing debut, paid for
the new TV room. There was enough left over for Ms. Obst to
pop $20,000 to take her son on safari for his 13th birthday
-- a two-week trek to Kenya and Tanzania.
   The safari came about in reaction to the "appalling"
display of wealth she saw on the Beverly Hills bar mitzvah
circuit, epitomized by the $600,000 extravaganza that
featured the Pointer Sisters as entertainment. In that
context a safari-in-lieuof-bar-mitzvah might well seem
modest, even frugal. If money is the measure of success, the
standard becomes impossibly high in a place where certain
stars can demand $10 million or $12 million for a job that
will take 10 or 12 weeks, and a movie routinely costs $30
million or more. What is rich, anyway?
   Ms. Obst knows she will never be "really, really rich"
until she can demand a percentage of her pictures' profits.
But that privilege is limited to top stars and producer-stars
like Steven Spielberg, so in the interim she is trying to
raise her producing fees. Meanwhile, she invests
conservatively, mainly in tax shelters and a pension account.
   However, declaring that she doesn't care how much money
she has when she dies, she also spends fearlessly on what she
calls "replenishment" -- on massage, gymnastics, home
remodeling, travel and, especially, on bath products. "I will
spend an infinite amount of money on bath and skin products,"
she said. "That's my weak point."
   This mix of extravagance and caution stems directly from
her father, a garment-industry executive who never refused
his daughter anything when she was growing up in an affluent
New York suburb. Daddy's girl got what she wanted whenever
she asked -- boarding school, camp, an MGB sports car when
she turned 16.
   But the bubble burst when Ms. Obst went to college and her
father went bankrupt. "It made me realize there's no such
thing as a bottomless pit," she said. His experience didn't
make her overly cautious, though, because he recovered so
well. After working for someone else for a few years, he went
back into business for himself; two years ago, at age 68, he
was off on yet another new venture. "My attitude toward money
is very similar to my father's, and that's the good news and
the bad news," said Ms. Obst. "We both spend it and expect
more to come. We live at the edge."
   That mixture of pragmatism and daring asserts itself both
at work and at home. As a producer, Ms. Obst divvies up the
money she has for a film by doing all she can to give
directors what they need for an important, lavish scene, then
figuring out how to save money elsewhere. In private life
she'll book the safari, but lives in the faded glamour of
Hancock Park rather than Beverly Hills.
   This was not the life Ms. Obst had planned for herself.
One of her early jobs was as an editor for the New York Times
Magazine. She was married to David Obst, the literary agent
who represented Woodward and Bernstein in the Watergate
years. When his work took him to California, Ms. Obst went
along "kicking and screaming."
   She adjusted nicely, landing a $75,000-a-year job in 1979
to develop scripts for the production company then run by
Peter Guber, who now heads Columbia Pictures. Even so, she
wasn't the primary salary earner in the family and never
expected that situation to change. If her father's bankruptcy
provided the first shock to her financial sense of self, her
divorce completely changed it. "I had never dreamed of
supporting myself completely and wasn't sure that I could,"
she said.
   "I committed myself to making sure that my son's lifestyle
never changed no matter how much pressure that put on me."
   As Ms. Obst continues making movies and does or doesn't
become "really, really rich," she remains philosophical about
the considerable something she has. "There's having and
giving back, there's having and enjoying," she said. "I don't
believe in having and feeling bad about it."