International:
   Polish Daily Thrives
   By Refusing to Hire
   Communist Hacks
   ---
   Begun by the Intelligentsia,
   Gazeta Wyborcza Leaves
   Its Competitors Smarting
   ----
   By Timothy Mapes
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
In fact, the paper's lead over Poland's eight other
nationwide dailies is so overwhelming, it recently raised the
newsstand price 20% in an attempt to reduce circulation, and
thus cut printing costs. Owned by a group of employees,
Gazeta Wyborcza sells more than half a million copies a day
and has ballooned to 48 pages from four.
   While newspapers throughout the West have seen advertising
decline in the current recession, advertisers are still
lining up at Gazeta Wyborcza, providing about 75% of the
paper's revenue. A 10% stake may soon be sold to a foreign
partner, senior staff members say. Ties with Solidarity were
severed after a falling out between Editor in Chief Adam
Michnik and the union's former leader, Lech Walesa.
   "We tried to find some good journalists, but they just
didn't exist," says Anna Bikont, a former psychology
professor and Gazeta Wyborcza's star reporter. Under
communism, journalists "were taught to write with a special
language -- a language to say nothing," she says.
   To train its reporters, Gazeta Wyborcza relies on a
handful of veterans from the old underground journals, such
as Ms. Bikont, 37 years old, a short, round-faced woman with
an elfish grin. The resulting style is a far cry from "First
Party Secretary Visits Bydgoszcz," and other such thrillers
that once filled the official press.
   "End of Cold War Sunk in Liqueur," the paper declared
after the recent U.N. Security Council summit. The headline
played off a dinner party for council members. An article on
the Camp David meeting between presidents Bush and Boris
Yeltsin carried the headline "Call Me Boris."
   The paper wasn't supposed to last more than a few months.
Set up in May 1989, Poland's first non-Communist newspaper in
40 years was only meant to publicize Solidarity candidates in
the June national election; Wyborcza (pronounced veh-BOR-cha)
means election. The Communists planned to shut it down after
the election, but when Solidarity won by a landslide, the
paper went right on publishing.
   "It was like a mission," Ariadna Machowska says of the
paper's early days. "You really knew you were on the right
side. I was happy to do anything here, be a secretary, answer
the phones. I didn't care about getting paid." Ms. Machowska,
26, is now features editor.
   There's still no shortage of energy. In the newsroom,
harried reporters, entangled in telephone cords and
surrounded by debris, type frantically into word-processors
crammed into tiny work stations. It's a scene in sharp
contrast with the typical Polish office.
   The few graying employees, sporting tweed jackets or
sweaters, could easily be mistaken for university professors.
In fact, many of them are professors: The senior-staff roster
reads like a Who's Who of the Polish intelligentsia.
   New reporters work with slightly more experienced
journalists on their first few assignments. But even the
veterans have a lot to learn. Ms. Bikont led the paper's
political coverage for two years before switching to
economics to track the scandals rocking Poland's financial
system. "It's very boring, but I must do it," she says.
   Ms. Bikont learned her trade at a clandestine paper that
documented the plight of Solidarity activists during martial
law. Most of the writers were wanted by the police; the paper
had to move every week to avoid detection. To help distribute
the paper, Ms. Bikont used to smuggle copies in a stomach
pouch, mimicking pregnancy.
   Now, she spends about half her day helping two young
assistants work on their reporting. "It's a good investment,"
she says, but there are substantial risks, as when one of her
students invented part of a feature story. He got off with a
stern warning. "He's very smart, but he has fantasies," Ms.
Bikont says.
   Gazeta Wyborcza's biggest slip-ups have come from
more-senior writers. A chief business reporter accused a
Polish company of financial misconduct, for example, then he
couldn't come up with evidence. When the company threatened
to seek damages, the paper ran a front-page retraction and
demoted the reporter. The paper also got burned when it
discovered that its currency-market reporter was moonlighting
for a chain of Polish foreign-exchange offices.