Your Money Matters:
   Buyers Guide: This May Be Last Chance
   To Purchase Annuities, but Use Caution
   ----
   By Ellen E. Schultz and Karen Slater
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
But while that may turn out to be true, investors
shouldn't let the possibility of tax law changes rush them
into a purchase.
   "Just because the rules may change, that doesn't mean you
have to run out and buy an annuity now. It may not be the
right vehicle for you," says Virginia Applegarth, a Boston
financial and insurance adviser.
   And if an annuity is appropriate, choosing one isn't
something to do without careful consideration of the options.
   Investors have poured billions of dollars into annuities
in recent years because they are one of the few
tax-advantaged investments left. In 1988, the year Congress
sharply curtailed the tax advantages of single-premium life
insurance, annuity sales rose 30% to $43.8 billion. Annuity
sales totaled $53.7 billion in 1990 and appear to have risen
another 9% or so last year, according to the industry's Life
Insurance Marketing and Research Association.
   If the Bush administration proposal is passed, most
annuities bought by individuals would lose their tax-deferred
status. Whether that will actually happen is an open
question, and the proposal won't be voted on by Congress
until at least late March.
   Until there is a decision, the firms that sell annuities
will be pulling out all the stops. "We're in the process of
putting together some high-powered sales packages" for
banking clients, says Robert Webb, an attorney with the
Louisville, Ky., law firm Brown, Todd  Heyburn.
   Frank H. Miller, president of an insurance brokerage firm
in Voorhees, N.J., is among those urging people who have
expressed interest in annuities to buy now. "If they are
interested in it, this may be their last chance," he says.
   The most common type of annuity is a "deferred" annuity, a
long-term savings contract. Like individual retirement
accounts, earnings build up tax-deferred until the money is
withdrawn in a lump sum or a stream of payments. Unlike an
IRA, an annuity isn't subject to limits on contributions.
   People who want deferred annuities have two basic types to
choose: "Fixed" annuities earn rates of interest that are
fixed for one or more years at a time. "Variable" annuities
allow holders to move their dollars among a variety of mutual
funds invested in stocks, bonds and the like. Around 80% of
the annuities sold are of the fixed variety, according to the
LIMRA.
   Annuities are relatively illiquid investments intended for
long-term investing, so it's important to choose one
cautiously. Earnings withdrawn before age 59 1/2 are subject
to a 10% penalty tax in addition to regular income tax.
Virtually all annuities also impose "surrender charges" on
investors who withdraw money in the first seven years or so.
These charges are typically 7% of the account balance in the
first year, declining by 1 percentage point a year
thereafter. Avoid annuities with surrender charges that never
expire.
   Also look carefully at the payout options. Most annuities
give investors the options of taking a lump sum, receiving
their money back in a period of payments over 10 to 20 years
or so, or choosing an income stream based on their life
expectancy. (The administration proposal would retain the
tax-deferred status on annuities that pay a lifetime income
stream.)
   In general, it's wise to avoid contracts that don't let
you take a lump sum option. "You want to be able to withdraw
a lump sum if you need to," says Jim Mitchell, president of
IDS Life Insurance Co.
   If the administration proposal is adopted, Congress would
have the power to make the provision retroactive to the date
it was proposed. Thus, it might be worth asking if you can
get out of your contract if that happens. IDS Life and Pruco
Life Insurance Co., a subsidiary of Prudential Insurance Cos.
of America, yesterday decided to let buyers take their entire
accumulation value without surrender charges.
   When deciding what's best for you, keep in mind that the
broker or insurance agent has an incentive to sell you
certain types of annuities over others. Generally, annuities
with long surrender periods pay the highest commissions. An
annuity with a 10-year surrender period might pay a
commission as high as 8%, says Gorden Boronow, chief
operating officer of American Skandia Life Assurance Corp., a
Shelton, Conn., subsidiary of Skandia Group. In general,
however, commissions are about 4% on fixed annuities and 5%
on variable annuities, he says.
   Also make sure you've already taken advantage of
alternative tax-deferred vehicles. Consider contributing to a
deductible IRA if you qualify, contributing to a 401(k),
making after-tax contributions to a profit-sharing plan or
nondeductible IRA, or putting self-employment income in an
SEP or Keogh.
   One of the first things to look at is the insurer's
financial health. Harold Evensky, a Coral Gables, Fla.,
financial planner, says he requires an A-plus rating from
A.M. Best Co. and ratings of double-A or better by two of the
three bond rating firms (Standard  Poor's Corp., Moody's
Investors Service Inc. and Duff  Phelps Inc).
   Buyers naturally focus on the initial interest rate, which
may be guaranteed for one year, three years or even longer.
Currently, one-year rates vary widely, generally between 4%
and 7%, while rates for three-year and five-year periods are
more narrowly concentrated in the range of 6% to 6.5%, says
Warner Henderson, principal with Margolis, Henderson  Co.,
insurance agents in Boston.
   But Mr. Henderson and others say it's critical to look
beyond the initial rate, and to be wary when one company is
offering a rate that is substantially higher than others.
Says Ms. Applegarth, the Boston adviser: "The company that is
offering the highest one-year rate is almost always not the
company to go with."
   High rates may reflect a company's low credit ratings or
may be teamed with unusually high or long-lasting surrender
charges. And insurance specialists say some companies that
pay unusually high first-year rates tend to pay unusually low
rates later on. In some cases, the high first-year rate is
called a "bonus" rate.
   Buyers should ask the agent or the insurer for the initial
and subsequent rates that company has paid on annuities over
the past several years. "Did they start the client out at a
high rate and rapidly drop them to a lower rate that was
uncompetitive? We do see it happen among some of the more
greedy companies," says Mr. Miller, the New Jersey insurance
broker.
   Also, beware "two-tiered" annuities that pay a lower rate
if you withdraw your money in a lump sum at the end of the
contract rather than annuitizing.
   Unlike fixed-rate annuities, which pay a fixed rate on
money in the contract, variable annuities include five or
more investment accounts that pay varying rates of return.
Like mutual funds, people can typically transfer their money
among the funds over the phone.
   "Look for a diversified group of stock and bond funds,"
says Lori Lucas, an annuity analyst at Morningstar Inc. in
Chicago. "You're going to be in this for a long time, so your
risk-reward profile will be changing."
   As with mutual funds, it's critical to compare fees,
because high fees can drag down returns. Generally, the total
fees shouldn't be higher than the average, which is 2.27%
annually, according to Lipper Analytical Services Inc. These
fees include "mortality  expense risk" fees, (typically
1.25% of the assets in the contract) and management fees on
the underlying funds (ranging from about 0.25% for some bond
funds to more than 1% for stock funds).
   As with fixed annuities, look for contracts with surrender
periods within the typical range -- declining over seven
years. Two companies that sell variable annuities with no
surrender penalties are Vanguard Group in Valley Forge, Pa.,
and Scudder, Stevens  Clark Inc., in Boston. The total
annual expenses on these funds are also lower than the
averages: 0.95% and 1.40% respectively.
   Performance is also important. Ask the salesperson to show
you how well the funds (or "subaccounts") perform compared
with the average performance of other funds of its type in
variable annuities. For example, most of the funds in IDS
Life's Flexible Annuity and Equitable Life Insurance
Company's Equi-Vest were above average over the past three
years.
   These averages are tracked by such firms as Lipper
Analytical and Morningstar. If the salesperson won't show you
how the subaccounts performed vs. the averages, don't buy the
annuity. Make sure you're shown the net returns; that is,
what the accounts earned after the annual charges for the
annuity contract and the fund expenses have been subtracted.
   ---
             A Checklist for Annuity Investors
                                                                                                       

   -- Consider annuities only if you're investing for the
long haul. Withdrawals before age 59 1/2 face a 10% penalty.
                                                                                                       

   -- Buy only from top-rated insurers.
                                                                                                       

   -- Compare surrender periods. Most annuities have
surrender charges in the first seven years or so. Avoid
annuities with surrender charges that never go away.
                                                                                                       

   -- If buying an annuity paying a fixed rate, look beyond
the initial rate. Approach unusually high rates with caution.
                                                                                                       

   -- Look for maximum flexibility on getting your money out.
Avoid annuities that don't let you take your money out in a
lump sum or give you a lower interest rate if you do.
                                                                                                       

   -- Generally avoid variable annuities with total fees
higher than about 2%; stick with contracts that offer at
least five different investment accounts.