Digital Equipment Posts Quarterly Loss,
   Sees Continued Slump, More Cost Cuts
   ----
   By John R. Wilke
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Executives of the computer maker said little to reassure
investors. "There is no reason for optimism" in the world
economy, said John F. Smith, senior vice president. "We don't
see any indicators that we are moving out of this malaise."
   As a result, Mr. Smith said, more aggressive cost cutting
will be needed, possibly including new layoffs. "In the short
term we're going to turn up the heat on cost containment,
including expenses across the total corporation." He said it
was "too early to say" whether Digital, based in Maynard,
Mass., would have a loss in the current quarter, but added
that "we have not seen indicators giving us reason for
optimism."
   The loss was deepened by the weak results of two recent
European acquisitions, the computer unit of Philips
Electronics N.V. and Digital Kienzle, a German computer
company. Together, the two new units contributed about $364
million to second-quarter revenue.
   In the year-ago second quarter, Digital reported net
income of $111.1 million, or 92 cents a share, on revenue of
$3.35 billion.
   Analysts were particularly concerned about gross profit
margins on product sales, which fell a full 10 percentage
points, to 43.7%, a record low.
   "That's the problem in the quarter and that's the problem
for the future," said John Levinson of Goldman, Sachs  Co.
Digital's cost structure is still too high, he said, in an
intensely competitive market where it can no longer command
premium prices.
   Barry F. Willman of Sanford C. Bernstein  Co. noted that
service revenue growth -- a bright spot in recent quarters --
had dropped sharply to only 6%, excluding the European
acquisitions. In the past four quarters service revenue has
grown by double digits.
   Overseas revenue rose to 65% of total revenue in the
second quarter, the highest level ever. "Digital has become
very dependent on Europe, especially Germany, and it is
clearly slowing down over there," said Steven Milunovich, an
analyst with Salomon Brothers Inc.
   Digital's work force rose to 119,500 as of Dec. 31 from
115,300 at the end of the prior quarter. This reflects a
decline of 1,900 jobs through attrition and layoffs and the
addition of 6,100 people with the Philips acquisition. Since
its peak employment of 126,000 in June 1989, Digital has cut
17,500 jobs through attrition, buy-outs and layoffs -- and
added back 11,000 through acquisitions.
   Mr. Smith wouldn't discuss a specific target for work
force reductions. But he repeated, "we have to turn up the
heat, even beyond our current plans." He previously has said
Digital would cut 9,000 to 10,000 jobs in the year ending
June 30.
   Analysts said Digital's results were also affected by a
product cycle transition, in which new products were
introduced during the quarter but weren't widely available to
customers, depressing sales of existing products. Digital
expects that the new computers will be shipped in volume in
the third quarter and should boost results.
   For the six months ended Dec. 28, Digital reported a net
loss of $109.7 million, or 88 cents a share, compared with
year-ago net of $137.3 million, or $1.12 a share. Revenue for
the period rose 5% to $6.77 billion from $6.45 billion a year
ago. However, revenue for the latest six months includes two
months' results from the new Philips unit and three months'
results from the Digital Kienzle unit.