EPA Resists
   Step in Drive
   To Deregulate
   ---
   Council Led by Quayle Tries
   To Demonstrate Resolve
   To Curtail Regulations
   ----
   By Rose Gutfeld and Bob Davis
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
The Competitiveness Council, headed by Vice President Dan
Quayle, is trying to turn a fight over the air-pollution
regulations into a demonstration of the administration's
resolve to slash regulation. William Kristol, Mr. Quayle's
chief-of-staff, sent the EPA a copy of a White House memo
calling the agency's air-pollution proposal "pure paper
work/regulatory/litigation burdens on the private sector." He
warned that "our deregulatory initiative won't be taken
seriously" if the EPA proposals become law.
   Robert Hahn, a former Bush-administration economist,
warned that the tactics could backfire. "The real downside to
playing hardball is that the political appointees at the
agency are more likely to side with their staff," he said.
"The result is less deregulation."
   The rules in dispute would establish an expanded system of
reporting releases of air pollutants. Under the plan, a wide
range of companies would have to get permits from state
pollution authorities specifying that their emissions don't
exceed limits under the Clean Air Act. The EPA wants
companies to give state regulators 45 days notice before
making operating changes that cause small increases in
emissions.
   The notice would allow for public hearings, where
environmentalists and others could object to the changes and
ask regulators to block them. The council opposes the lengthy
notice as too onerous and costly for business.
   EPA officials contend that the council's efforts amount to
a last-ditch attempt to undercut agreements that EPA
officials had reached with White House Counsel Boyden Gray
and economist Michael Boskin. Moreover, they contend that the
council's push against the permits rule is creating a feeling
of ill will that could spill over onto disputes over other
regulations.
   While EPA officials insist they still hope to negotiate an
acceptable permits rule, they are considering a counterattack
that could hold up rules that would ease environmental
standards that apply when utilities upgrade their plants,
speed new biotechnology products to the marketplace, and ease
the requirements for disposing of hazardous waste. Another
rule that could be held up involves a decision on whether to
require canisters on cars to catch fumes.
   Messrs. Gray and Boskin won't comment. Officials who work
with them say they back the Competitiveness Council's
position but would have preferred a more diplomatic approach.
The council's staff pushes an agenda designed to bolster the
standing of the vice president and erase his image as a
political lightweight. As a result, the council directly
attacks regulatory agencies to demonstrate the vice
president's clout.
   But that strategy could prove risky for the president and
his deregulation moratorium. President Bush has campaigned as
"the environmental president," and the battle with the EPA
opens him to attacks by environmentalists and lawmakers. On
Friday, EPA officials are scheduled to testify before the
House Health and Environment Subcommittee, where Chairman
Henry Waxman, (D., Calif.) is sure to attack any weakening of
clean air rules.
   James Miller, a former Reagan budget official who lobbied
the Bush administration to adopt a moratorium, said strongarm
tactics are necessary to impress regulators that the
administration is serious about deregulation. Plus, the
politics will favor the president. "People are feeling the
cold of unemployment threats, the cold of an uncertain
future," he said. "Some regulators act as if the world is a
happy playpen."