Citicorp to Sell
   Preferred Stock
   For $150 Million
   ---
   Offering, to Bolster Capital,
   Prompts SP to Reduce
   Its Rating of the Security
   ----
   By Steven Lipin
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The new capital will bring the banking giant closer to the
minimum guidelines that take effect at year end. Citicorp
Chairman John S. Reed has said it probably won't meet until
sometime in the second quarter the requirement that banks
hold 4% in equity for every $100 of assets. Citicorp has been
selling assets and raising capital for more than a year to
strengthen its equity-to-asset ratios. The sale probably will
add less than 0.1 percentage point to its 3.7% equity ratio,
a bank spokeswoman said.
   Standard  Poor's, however, cited the high fixed costs of
the preferred issue and the company's dependence on this form
of stock in the capital structure in downgrading the
company's preferred rating to triple-B-minus from triple-B.
Unlike its common shares, which carry no dividend, the
preferred is being marketed with a dividend of 9.05%. Last
year, Citicorp sold $1.25 billion in convertible preferred
stock to private investors that carried dividends of between
10.75% and 11%.
   "This increases the pressure on the holding company to
meet high fixed charges," cautioned Standard  Poor's, which
didn't change any other of the bank's ratings. "Coverage will
remain thin, as the company's substantial loan quality
problems will likely dampen earnings over the intermediate
term."
   Moody's Investors Service already rates Citicorp's
preferred stock a notch lower than the new SP rating.
Moody's rating is Ba-1, which is one rating below investment
grade. Most analysts expect the company to break even or post
a slight profit in the first quarter. Year-earlier profit was
a mere $70 million, or 10 cents a share.
   While the preferred stock is relatively expensive for the
bank, it's a sign that the banking giant can once again tap
the public markets, say analysts. Some analysts believe
Citicorp could try to sell common equity later this year,
which the bank hasn't done since 1987.
   "One of the most crucial factors influencing the change in
our investment stance is Citicorp's renewed ability to access
the public equity markets," said Thomas H. Hanley, bank
analyst at First Boston Corp., in a report last week
recommending the company's shares. Mr. Hanley believes
Citicorp could sell $1.5 billion in common stock over the
next three years. Citicorp hasn't ruled out an equity
offering, but has said it would rather raise capital through
asset sales and cost cuts.
   Citicorp said it would sell about six million preferred
shares at $25 each through underwriters led by Merrill Lynch.
The shares will be listed on the New York Stock Exchange. The
Citicorp spokeswoman said retail brokerage firms were tapped
because the securities are geared towards individual
investors.
   In Big Board composite trading Friday, Citicorp common
closed at $16.625 a share, up 50 cents.