Westinghouse Discussed With KKR Sale
   Of Radio Stations, but Talks Are Scuttled
   ----
   This article was prepared by
   George Anders and Laurie P. Cohen in New York
   And Gabriella Stern in Pittsburgh
Last October, Westinghouse reported a $1.48 billion loss,
chiefly because of problem real estate loans made by its
credit unit. At the time, Westinghouse's chief executive,
Paul Lego, said the Pittsburgh-based electrical company was
considering a variety of asset sales and was "trying to
evaluate what the best price would be for a whole series of
businesses."
   For its part, KKR, a leveraged buy-out firm, has made no
secret of its desire to make radio acquisitions. Early last
year, KKR formed Granum Communications L.P., a partnership
with radio entrepreneur Herbert McCord, and said it wanted to
buy radio stations.
   People familiar with the Westinghouse/KKR talks say that
KKR's team, led by partner R. Theodore Ammon, originally
expressed interest in buying Westinghouse's Group W radio
stations for about $500 million to $600 million. The
stations, which make up one of the largest non-network radio
groups in the U.S., have outperformed their markets in this
recesssionary economy. The radio group has AM-FM combinations
in major revenue markets, including New York, Los Angeles,
Washington, and Philadelphia.
   Advisers to Westinghouse countered with a proposal that
KKR also inject $250 million to $500 million of additional
equity into Westinghouse. At recent market prices for
Westinghouse stock, that could have made KKR about a 5% to
10% owner of the company.
   A series of sticking points arose concerning the equity
infusion, however, according to people familiar with the
talks. For its investment, KKR would have been unlikely to
get significant representation on Westinghouse's board;
traditionally KKR has wanted to control the boards of
companies in which it invests.
   KKR also reportedly expressed concern about Westinghouse's
continuing exposure to loan losses at its credit subsidiary.
Although Westinghouse has taken $2.6 billion in write-offs
related to its credit unit, the unit still has unfunded
commitments to various real estate developers that require it
to lend more money. The parent company also could be
obligated to pump more money into its credit unit under
various "keep-well" provisions of financing agreements with
the credit subsidiary.
   Personal chemistry between KKR's New York financiers and
Westinghouse's Pittsburgh executives wasn't especially good,
people familiar with the talks also indicated. KKR at one
point pressed Westinghouse to cut its dividend, arguing that
maintaining a yield of 7.5% wasn't an ideal use of corporate
cash. Westinghouse directors are expected to cut the 35-cent
quarterly dividend when they meet later this month.