GM Is Planning
   To Consolidate
   Group Staffs
   ---
   Recent Decision to Shrink
   Work Force Could Undo
   Reorganization of 1984
   ----
   By Paul Ingrassia and Joseph B. White
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
The staff consolidations might be announced as early as
this month, said company officials who asked not to be named.
But final decisions on some key points haven't been made. In
fact, GM's management committee met yesterday afternoon to
discuss the situation.
   The consolidations stem from GM's Dec. 18 bombshell
announcement that it will close 21 factories and eliminate
74,000 jobs over the next four years. The cutbacks include
9,000 white-collar jobs to be eliminated this year.
   The three separate engineering and manufacturing groups
that GM created in 1984 will remain intact for now, said
senior company officials. But these officials said that GM's
senior management is leaning toward merging the groups within
a few years to end the duplication and, even worse, the
conflicts among them.
   Thus, General Motors would undo a major facet of the
reorganization that threw the company into turmoil eight
years ago. GM executives have acknowledged the disruption
caused by that move but have maintained that long-term
benefits would make the short-term problems worth enduring.
   The three groups created by the reorganization were
Buick-Oldsmobile-Cadillac, Chevrolet-Pontiac-Canada and GM
Truck  Bus. Their responsibilities were supposed to have
been distinct but in reality have become blurred. The
Buick-Oldsmobile-Cadillac group, for example, was made
responsible for making and selling large cars, but it now
makes most GM compact cars as well.
   The man behind the reorganization was former GM Chairman
Roger B. Smith, who retired in August 1990. Mr. Smith remains
a director of GM but is considered unlikely to oppose moves
that would take out what he put in place. Even before his
retirement, Mr. Smith's credibility had fallen among GM's
outside directors, who are now taking a more active role.
   GM said it wouldn't comment on what it termed "media
speculation regarding possible organizational changes." But
the company's statement, issued in response to a Detroit Free
Press article that appeared yesterday, added: "GM is stepping
up the rationalization of its operations to significantly
reduce costs and improve effectiveness and efficiency. This
includes . . . changes in corporate staff structures, where
necessary, to better utilize critical resources."
   The staff function most certain to be consolidated, said
GM executives who asked not to be named, is planning. The
company currently has four staffs for planning: one for each
manufacturing group and a separate headquarters group to
coordinate them. These staffs handle tasks ranging from
scheduling monthly vehicle production to predicting long-term
plant-capacity needs.
   But late last year, GM sent the top planner from the
Chevrolet-Pontiac-Canada group to Japan to become the top
liaison with GM's 37%-owned affiliate, Isuzu Motors Ltd. The
position of that executive, Donald Sullivan, hasn't been
filled, which may indicate that a consolidation of the
planning staff is imminent.
   And GM hasn't named a successor to Thomas N. Murphy, the
top finance man at the Buick-Oldsmobile-Cadillac group, who
was dispatched this week to become chairman of another
affiliate, National Car Rental System Inc. It's less clear,
however, how far GM will go in consolidating its finance
staff.
   The financial people traditionally have functioned as GM's
scorekeepers in all parts of the organization. GM Chairman
Robert C. Stempel is the first man without a finance
background to run the company in decades. Still, reducing the
finance staff's presence in a major way would smack of
cultural revolution at GM.
   At least some of GM's staff consolidation moves could be
announced at the same time GM names some of the plants that
will be closed in the wake of the Dec. 18 announcement. GM
executives have said they want to identify some of those
factories by the end of the first quarter, perhaps by the end
of this month.
   Separately, a top executive of GM's Saturn small-car
subsidiary said at a press conference in Chicago that the
unit expects to be profitable within "three to five years,"
but that assumes production at Saturn's Spring Hill, Tenn.,
factory will be "well above" the straight-time capactity of
240,000 cars a year.
   Donald W. Hudler, Saturn's vice president for sales,
indicated that Saturn would need to add a third work shift
and thus be producing more than 300,000 cars a year to turn a
profit. Mr. Hudler also said Saturn expects to begin
exporting its cars to Taiwan this summer and eventually to
sell 3,000 to 5,000 cars a year there.