International:
   Securities Firms
   In Japan Slash
   Profit Forecasts
   ----
   By Quentin Hardy
   Staff Reporter of the Wall Street Journal
Separately, second-tier brokerage house Yamatane
Securities Co. became the latest securities firm to settle
out of court a claim that it engaged in questionable
stock-shuffling practices, called "tobashi". Yamatane said it
agreed to pay a total of 19.4 billion yen ($146 million) to
two corporate clients. Of the Big Four, only No. 2 Daiwa has
also admitted practicing tobashi, in which securities are
shifted from one account to another to conceal losses. The
other three big houses have denied engaging in tobashi.
   On a pretax basis, only Yamaichi expects a loss. Although
Japanese companies' pretax profits are usually the most
closely watched part of their earnings reports, the Big Four
firms' net-income outlooks illustrate the impact of a series
of scandals, as well as losses from trading on their own
accounts.
   With the Nikkei stock average below 20000 and falling, the
estimates are a blow to investor confidence at the worst
possible time. "These kinds of losses are self-perpetuating,"
said Alicia Ogawa, senior analyst at S.G. Warburg Securities
(Japan) Inc. "People hear about these kinds of losses and say
`Oh my God,' and stay away from the market."
   Analysts said the results will hurt the companies, but not
fatally. Government regulators, whose once-cozy relationships
with the firms were bruised by last year's loss-compensation
scandals, say they have no plans to help them out.
   The biggest drop was projected by Yamaichi, which forecast
an unconsolidated pretax loss of 34 billion yen, compared
with a projection in September of a 20 billion yen profit. A
year earlier, Yamaichi posted pretax profit of 67.55 billion
yen. This year's revenue is expected to fall 36% to 233
billion yen from 360.18 billion yen.
   Yamaichi said it will pay 28 billion yen in taxes for
earlier loss-compensation payments to favored clients, and
will record losses of 10 billion yen on securities it owns
for investment. As a result, the company expects a net loss
of 52 billion yen.
   Atsuo Miki, executive vice president of Yamaichi, said it
would be the first net loss for the company since September
1965, when Yamaichi had to be rescued by the government. He
blamed the pretax loss partly on a 40% drop in brokerage fees
as trading volume plummeted on the Tokyo Stock Exchange in
the past several months. Yamaichi expects to cut its dividend
to between seven yen and 10 yen from last year's 13.5 yen, he
said.
   Only Nomura, the world's largest securities firm, expects
to be in the black after taxes for the year. The company
forecast pretax profit of 45 billion yen, down from an
earlier projection of 75 billion yen, and 81% below last
year's pretax profit of 233.53 billion yen.
   Revenue is expected to be 425 billion yen, down 38% from
688.32 billion yen. Unrealized losses on securities the
company owns were expected to drag profit down to 30 billion
yen. Nomura will pay about 150 million yen in taxes on loss
compensation, a company official said.
   Nikko projected pretax profit of 2.5 billion yen, down 97%
from pretax earnings of 72.95 billion yen a year earlier. The
company had earlier projected pretax profit of 45 billion yen
for the period. Revenue is expected to be 285 billion yen,
down 24% from 376.57 billion.
   Daiwa last week projected a net loss of 43 billion yen for
this fiscal year.