Cleveland Firm
   Says Its Orders
   Have Improved
   ---
   But Acme-Cleveland Warns
   That Demand Is Soft,
   Sees No Quick Rebound
   ----
   By Ralph E. Winter
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
"We're not expecting the economy to help us very much this
fiscal year," he said. There's ordinarily a lag between an
upturn in manufacturing activity and increased shipments of
factory machinery.
   Because of the slow order pace and a low order backlog,
the company probably will about break even in the current
quarter, he said. Management's earnings goal for the fiscal
year is net income equaling the $3.1 million, or 44 cents a
share, earned from continuing operations in fiscal 1991, he
said.
   The backlog of unfilled orders is about $24 million, Mr.
Swift said, up slightly since Dec. 31 but down 17% from a
year ago. As a result, sales for the current quarter are
likely to fall to about $44 million from $48.1 million a year
ago, Mr. Swift said, and sales for the fiscal year will slip
to about $175 million from $183.9 million in fiscal 1991.
   However, if production of cars, trucks and other metal
products recovers in the next several months,
Acme-Cleveland's profit will rise significantly in fiscal
1993 and there will be a further gain the following year, Mr.
Swift said. He said management doesn't quarrel with analysts'
fiscal 1993 projections calling for earnings in the area of
65 cents a share.
   Orders for drills, reamers and other metal-cutting tools,
the company's largest product category, were down 8% to 10%
for the October-January period, the first four months of the
current fiscal year, Mr. Swift said. "But February bookings
are up, so maybe we're beginning to see an upturn," he said.
   Acme-Cleveland management has been struggling over the
past 18 months or so to reduce costs enough to keep the
company profitable as markets weakened for most of its
products. The company reduced employment by 20% over the past
year, to about 2,200, Mr. Swift said. He soon will move
corporate headquarters to a Cleveland plant site, eliminating
costs of renting the current suburban office.
   The company produces cutting tools, multiple spindle
lathes, electronic measuring systems, sensors and motion
control devices, all used mainly in metal products
manufacturing. The hard-hit auto, truck and auto parts
industries are major customers.
   Even Acme-Cleveland's telecommunications products have
been hurt by the sluggish economy; telephone companies have
been spending cautiously, and housing starts are depressed.
Orders so far in fiscal 1992 are "a little ahead of the prior
year" but still aren't strong, he said. Few telephone
companies have disclosed their capital spending budgets for
1992, Mr. Swift said, "but we get the feeling that they have
more money to spend" than they did in 1991. Spending will
accelerate in 1993, he said.
   "Like many other capital-goods companies, we have a rather
large book of outstanding quotes," Mr. Swift said. "There's a
high probability of closing on many of those quotes, but the
question is timing." Acme-Cleveland earned $955,000, or 26
cents a share, from continuing operations in the fiscal 1991
second quarter. However, a charge for settlement of a lawsuit
resulted in a net loss for the period of $4.9 million, or 78
cents a share.
   For all of fiscal 1991, the company had a net loss of $3
million, or 52 cents a share, because of that charge.
Management doesn't foresee any sizable special charges this
year, Mr. Swift said.