Treasury Seeks End to Double Taxation
   Of Profit but Doesn't Push Specific Plan
   ----
   By David Wessel
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
But in its largely technical 268-page report issued
without ceremony -- and without even a pro forma endorsement
by Treasury Secretary Nicholas Brady -- the department didn't
say how it would make up the billions of dollars in revenue
that would be lost from some changes it suggested; it
originally said it would do so. Mr. Gideon emphasized that
the department's goal is to spark debate rather than to get a
bill through Congress soon. He said none of the proposals
will be reflected in President Bush's coming budget.
   The Treasury did, however, lean toward one of two
approaches. One is a simple change in the tax law to exempt
dividends from the recipient's income taxes; that would cost
$13.1 billion a year. The other is a major change that would
tax corporations on profits before payment of dividends or
interest and stop taxing recipients of interest or dividend
income. This approach would actually raise $3.2 billion a
year.
   The Treasury criticized as unwieldy an alternative, used
by several other countries, of allowing shareholders to
reduce their personal taxes by the amount of taxes paid by
companies in which they own stock.
   Currently, the U.S. taxes corporate profits twice: first
when they are earned and later when they are paid to
shareholders in the form of dividends. Eliminating this
double taxation has long been a goal of economists and many
Republicans. The Treasury has made three previous attempts in
the past 20 years. The efforts failed, in part because big
business opposed change that would force it to pay out more
dividends. But Mr. Gideon said the climate has changed. At
34%, the corporate tax rate is now higher than the personal
tax rate and the perils of debt are more widely appreciated,
he said.
   The Treasury said the changes it recommends would reduce
three distortions in the current tax system: the incentive
for corporations to rely on debt rather than equity because
interest payments are deductible and dividends are not; the
incentive for companies to retain earnings or otherwise avoid
the double tax by debt-financed share repurchases; and
incentives to invest in partnerships and other non-corporate
forms of business.
   "These distortions raise the cost of capital for corporate
investments," the Treasury said. "Integration could be
expected to reduce it." It estimated that integrating the
corporate and personal tax systems could increase capital in
the corporate sector by $125 billion to $500 billion,
decrease the overall corporate debt-to-asset ratio by one to
seven percentage points and "produce an annual gain to the
U.S. economy as a whole from $2.5 billion to $25 billion."
These estimates assume that any revenue losses are offset by
an increase in other business taxes or taxes on shareholders,
but the Treasury deliberately avoided any specific
suggestions.
   The simplest approach recommended by the Treasury is to
exempt from taxation dividends paid to shareholders. Foreign
investors would continue to face U.S. taxes until new tax
treaties could be negotiated. The Treasury said even retained
earnings are taxed twice -- once when they are earned by a
company and later when the shareholder sells his or her
stock. Corporate dividend reinvestment plans could be
employed to reduce this form of double taxation.
   The more comprehensive alternative, which could be
implemented over about a decade, would be to tax all but the
smallest businesses on earnings before payment of any
interest or dividend. Neither interest nor dividends received
by shareholders or holders of debt would be taxed. This
approach would eliminate any tax incentive for companies to
turn to borrowing rather than equity to finance their
operations. But it would represent an enormous series of
changes in U.S. tax law.