Computers:
   Superfast Chips
   Inventively Mix
   Brain and Brawn
   ----
   By Stephen Kreider Yoder
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Meanwhile, Hewlett-Packard Co. hastily unveiled its
next-generation microprocessor ahead of schedule yesterday to
assert bragging rights over the new chips by Sun and Digital.
   While the chips described at the conference -- and outside
the conference, in H-P's case -- will be technologically
astounding, industry experts caution that such chips are
often experimental and make it to market in a much slower
form, if at all. "There's a danger of being overtaken by the
marketing frenzy" at the conference, says Andrew Allison,
publisher of a chip newsletter called RISC Management.
   Still, the new chips provide clues to a company's
technological prowess and a glimpse at what will show up in
tomorrow's computers. Perhaps the most avidly watched session
will be tomorrow morning, when Digital engineers disclose the
specifics of a chip, code-named Alpha, which Digital is
expected to use in future machines and which Cray Research
Inc. said it plans to use in new supercomputers.
   Many analysts, and even some Digital competitors, say they
expect the Alpha to be faster than chips from H-P, Sun and
others, at least on paper. For Digital, "this is the most
significant announcement since the VAX," Digital's flagship
minicomputer, concedes Patrick Gelsinger, who manages much of
the microprocessor development and marketing work at Intel
Corp., the largest microprocessor maker.
   Still, Mr. Gelsinger and others say Digital will likely
find it difficult and expensive to produce its chip in high
volumes and still maintain the speed claims it is expected to
make at the conference.
   "It's abundantly clear that the volume computing market
isn't driven by who has {the fastest} performance," says
Michael Slater, editor of Microprocessor Report, a
newsletter. "It's driven by software and who has the most
cost-effective performance."
   Indeed, companies with strong market positions plan to
challenge Digital openly. In the conference session just
after Digital's, engineers at Sun, the king of workstations
that use reduced instruction-set computing, or Risc, chips,
will talk about their own new chip, the SuperSparc. Made
under license by Texas Instruments Inc., the chips contain
three million transistors and can process three computer
instructions for every cycle of its internal clock. The chips
will produce a peak speed of about 150 Mips, or million
instructions per second, about four times the speed of Sun's
chips today, says David Ditzel, director of Sun's advanced
systems group.
   Those numbers may not match the peak speed of 400 Mips
that Digital says its chips produce, says Mr. Ditzel, but the
Sun-designed chip will be cheaper and will match Digital's in
actual computing tasks. "Even in absolute performance, I see
no reason to expect we won't be able to meet or exceed their
performance," says Mr. Ditzel, adding that Sun's chips will
appear in machines later this year.
   Digital hasn't detailed its plans, but some analysts
expect the company to ship workstations using its Alpha chip
by the end of the year.
   H-P, which hadn't planned to announce its chip for several
weeks until news of Digital's surfaced, launched its
challenge to Digital in the form of the next generation of
its highly successful "Precision" Risc chip. The chip,
code-named Thunderbird, will go into three of H-P's four
computer lines in the middle of the year, says Willem
Roelandts, general manger of HP's networked systems group.
   The Thunderbird chip will run at a sustained speed -- the
speed it maintains during typical use -- of well over 100
Mips, approaching the sustained speed of 150 Mips Digital's
chip is expected to produce, says Mr. Roelandts. "From all
the information we have, we believe ours will be at least as
fast and probably faster in real benchmarks," he says. H-P,
like Sun, has a large base of users and libraries of
thousands of programs that run on its chips.
   The Japanese, whose efforts to break into computer markets
with their own microprocessor designs were largely rebuffed
in the 1980s, are sticking to the kind of esoteric papers
that the chip conference was originally meant to showcase.
The announcements are expected to be more technological
statements than an indication of a new Japanese thrust.
   Fujitsu Ltd., for example, plans to discuss what it calls
a single-chip supercomputer, a 1.5-million transistor chip
that can perform certain calculations as fast as
supercomputers costing millions of dollars. Hitachi Ltd.
engineers plan to talk about a chip with a million
transistors that runs at 1,000 Mips.
   "These are odd-ball researchy things that people probably
won't ever use," says Mr. Slater, the newsletter editor. "You
can always build something dramatically faster if you don't
concern yourself with software compatibility or price
points."