International:
   Suddenly Scarce Rubles Regain Value,
   But Not Without Moscow's Intervention
   ----
   By Elisabeth Rubinfien and Laurie Hays
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
"It's never been harder to find rubles" in this country
"since I've been here," said Serge Yokoyama, an American
economics student who was fourth in line at a Moscow savings
bank, where foreigners and Soviets had been waiting on the
marble steps since 4 a.m.
   Russian central bank officials and leaders of the Russian
economic reform team have repeated recently that they expect
the ruble to eventually stabilize. The central bank tightened
credit to commercial banks at the beginning of the year,
reducing the supply of rubles in circulation. This month it
started delicate intervention to support the ruble, selling
hard foreign currency in the weekly trading sessions at the
Moscow International Currency Exchange, according to the
weekly business newspaper Commersant.
   The ruble closed Tuesday at 170 per dollar, strengthening
from 230 three weeks earlier. The official "tourist" rate has
remained stable. But the rate offered by commercial banks
dropped to 70 from about 150 two weeks ago.
   The recent sharp fluctuation in the ruble is an
unprecedented Western-style reaction to such government
macroeconomic moves. At the same time, it reflects a
typically Soviet shortage and hoarding cycle -- this time of
tangible ruble cash.
   As with a bread or soap shortage, a government statement
on the outlook for prices triggers a surge in consumer
buying. A coincidental long-term increase in institutional
demand for baguettes or shampoo adds pressure. Crucial
factories can't produce any faster, and within days the
inevitable happens: panic buying.
   Some central bank officials say the phenomenon will be
short-lived. Indeed, a shortage of rubles hit Moscow banks in
November and passed within a matter of weeks. Moreover, once
the Russian government issues its new 1,000-ruble notes,
probably in the spring, thereby increasing the supply of
rubles still further, the dollar will strengthen again --
this time perhaps to as high as 250 rubles, says a central
bank official.
   Nonetheless, the government intends to exert pressure to
keep the ruble from plummeting. "The dollar in the black
market now is not 160 rubles but 100, and that's good,"
Russian President Boris Yeltsin said in a televised
discussion last night. "We will stabilize the ruble."
   The interbank exchange rate of 230 rubles to the dollar at
the end of January compares with a fixed rate of six rubles
to the dollar a year earlier. The ruble started its steep
decline in December when the then-Soviet state bank
recalculated its value at 90 rubles to the dollar instead of
47 rubles, based in part on black-market trading rates.
   After prolonged and often tense discussions over how to
shore up the ruble, Georgi Matyukhin, central bank chairman,
backed off of his proposal to decree a higher exchange rate
for the currency. Instead, he now agrees in principle with
the arguments of Yegor Gaidar, head of Russia's economic
reform program, that market intervention would be better.
(Mr. Matyukhin may also end up backpedaling on another of his
statements. Yesterday, a Russian central bank spokesman
denied that the government has decided to remove the portrait
of Soviet founder Vladimir Lenin from Russian money, as Mr.
Matyukhin had announced the night before, the Russian
Information Agency reported.)
   Mr. Gaidar, in an interview yesterday with the former
government daily Izvestia, said the Russian government has
intentionally reduced the supply of rubles "to ease inflation
with a deflationary shock." Similarly, Mr. Matyukhin on
Tuesday said that the central bank had intervened by using
its foreign currency reserves to buy rubles.
   Russia's economic reform program requires exporters to
sell 10% of their hard currency to the central bank at a
discounted exchange rate for the government to use toward
ruble stabilization. Mr. Matyukhin has said the bank expects
to buy about $3 billion in this manner this year, which it
will funnel into the market. An estimated $15 billion more
retained by exporters is also expected to flow into the
market, sharply increasing the supply of dollars, he said.
   The Russian government is also asking the International
Monetary Fund to create a stabilization fund of $5 billion to
$6 billion. The government hopes to stabilize the ruble at a
higher level before moving to full convertibility with other
currencies.
   Meanwhile, other parts of the reform program are forcing
the government to print money faster than ever. The idea that
there is a shortage of rubles in a country where the money
supply last year more than doubled may seem a contradiction.
But since last year, when state enterprises stopped dealing
on a so-called non-cash basis with one another and the
central bank, the bank has had to create cash to fulfill
masses of such transactions -- though nobody can say how fast
the money is pouring from the presses.
   Another chunk of rubles may be needed to reimburse people
for 29 billion rubles of government paper issued in 1982. A
report in Izvestia said the bonds may no longer be valid now
that there is no longer a Soviet Ministry of Finance. The
government paper, which resembles a combination lottery
ticket and 20-year treasury bill dubbed the gold bond, makes
up a considerable portion of the savings of many ordinary
families.
   Meanwhile, spiraling inflation is forcing the bank to
issue higher-denomination notes and coins. Arnold Voilukov,
vice president of the former Soviet state bank, told Trud
newspaper last month that he didn't rule out the possibility
of creating 50 and 100 ruble coins and 5,000 and 10,000 ruble
notes. With more money coming into circulation, the ruble
will likely devalue further.
   For the time being, Russians with hard currency want to
make sure they get the most from their dollars. Designated
state and commercial bank outlets around the city are
permitted to exchange currency. But savings banks, which
yesterday were offering 90 rubles to the dollar, had signs in
their windows declaring they were out of rubles. "We had some
on Monday, but none Tuesday," said Natalia Vreshnina, deputy
director of services at one savings bank. "We have an order
in for more and we're just waiting."
   Commercial banks, which were buying dollars for 70 rubles
minus a 3% commission, tended to have more cash on hand, and
shorter lines. They also spawned an illicit alternative
nearby: ruble scalpers. At the commercial bank window in the
Central Post Office, Konstantin Zolotukhin sidled up to a
group of Africans standing in line and asked in a hushed
voice, "Do you want to sell? I'll buy for 70 rubles, but
without the 3% commission."