Martin Marietta,
   Lockheed May Face
   Rival Bid on LTV
   ----
   By Sarah Lubman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
In Bethesda, Md., a Martin Marietta spokesman said it and
Lockheed plan to ask the bankruptcy court in New York today
for $5 million plus $7 million in expenses if their purchase
agreement is rejected. "We're simply seeking some protection
for ourselves and Lockheed," the spokesman said.
   Lockheed, based in Calabasas, Calif., and Martin Marietta
signed a definitive agreement with LTV late last month to buy
its missile and aircraft units for $319 million in cash and
$36 million in preferred stock.
   Dallas-based LTV, which has been operating under Chapter
11 bankruptcy-court protection against creditors since 1986,
has been selling assets to raise cash for such purposes as
settling its steel unit's $3.1 billion pension liabilities.
   But although the agreement has been signed, the sale to
Lockheed and Martin Marietta is far from wrapped up, and some
industry observers expect a Thomson-Carlyle bid. One person
familiar with the situation said the competing bid being
considered is about $400 million, and that the
Thomson-Carlyle interests probably would split up the
aircraft and missile operations of what is now LTV.
   Among the businesses are subcontract work for Northrop
Corp.'s B-2 Stealth bomber and McDonnell Douglas Corp.'s C17
military transport, a variety of commercial aircraft, and the
Army's Multiple Launch Rocket System and Advanced Tactical
Missile System, along with some classified technologies.
   The possibility of acquisitions involving LTV's "black"
classified technologies by Thomson, a French
government-subsidized concern, has raised concern on Capitol
Hill. Late last month, Rep. Martin Frost, a Texas Democrat,
sent a letter to Defense Secretary Dick Cheney expressing
concern over a competing LTV bid by a foreign-owned company.
Democratic Sen. Dale Bumpers of Arkansas is circulating a
letter to President Bush that asks for presidential review of
any Thomson-Carlyle purchase due to concerns over U.S.
economic security and sensitive technology transfer, a
spokeswoman for the senator said.
   Martin Marietta said its own lobbying isn't to fan
protectionist sentiment in Washington, although the company
spokesman acknowledged it has "relied on some political
consultants" to respond to questions about the implications
of a ThomsonCarlyle bid. "We've taken our cue from those
kinds of queries. We have made materials available to others
who haven't necessarily asked us," he said.
   Under the Lockheed-Martin Marietta arrangement with LTV,
which must receive bankruptcy court approval, the two
aerospace concerns would operate the missiles and aircraft
businesses of LTV as a new company named Vought Corp., after
the founder of that aircraft business.
   Filings with the bankruptcy court must be made by March
25, with a final hearing scheduled on April 1 on the proposed
sale to Lockheed and Martin Marietta.
   Separately, in Dallas, LTV said its missile division
received a $42.7 million contract to produce the U.S. Army's
multiple launch rocket system.
   LTV added that the contract is the final incremental award
for the fourth year of a five-year, $1.2 billion contract, to
be completed by January 1994.