Politics  Policy:
   Rostenkowski
   To Act Quickly
   On Growth Plan
   ---
   Separate Packages Rejected;
   Estimates of Tax Loss
   In Bush Proposal Differ
   ----
   By Rick Wartzman and Jackie Calmes
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
To jump-start the sluggish economy, President Bush has
urged immediate passage of a seven-point plan that includes
measures to spur investment by both businesses and home
buyers.
   Still, before any action is possible, lawmakers will have
to work through what they view as spurious cost figures
served up by the administration. Congressional analysts
estimated that the president's economic growth package would
cost more than $50 billion over six years, about twice as
much as he claims it will. The gap is mostly due to
differences in calculating the effect of the president's
top-priority capital-gains tax cut.
   The wrangling over the numbers underscores the likelihood
that the White House will be confronted with a bill that
includes some tax increases it doesn't like.
   President Bush promoted his proposals yesterday in a
speech to a National Grocer's Association meeting in Florida,
saying his plan offered "straightforward, plain solutions to
our problems."
   But Mr. Rostenkowski and other lawmakers shot down the
notion, offered in the president's 1993 budget proposal, that
there be two tax bills this year, one to address short-term
needs and one for the long term. He called the two-bill idea
"nothing short of fantasy," adding that such a tack would
hurt the economy because Republicans and Democrats would find
themselves in a "1981-style bidding war" over who could cut
taxes the most.
   Rather, Mr. Rostenkowski said, the committee will move
through only a single tax bill that complies with
pay-as-you-go requirements of the 1990 budget law, which bars
Congress from offsetting tax cuts with lower defense
spending.
   Mr. Rostenkowski said the committee would start drafting a
bill next Wednesday and work through the weekend if
necessary. Democratic leaders are hoping that the full House
can vote by the end of this month on not only a tax bill but
also a fiscal 1993 budget resolution and a third measure
changing the 1990 budget agreement so defense cuts could be
used to boost social spending.
   Lawmakers questioned senior administration officials about
whether the cost of the president's economic program will, in
fact, be adequately offset with spending reductions in other
areas. Rep. Robert Matsui (D., Calif.) said he was "actually
shocked" at the apparent revenue shortfall in the president's
plan.
   Specifically, Mr. Matsui cited the report by the Joint
Committee on Taxation showing the total revenue lost from tax
cuts sought by Mr. Bush would exceed $50 billion over six
years. The administration, in its fiscal 1993 budget request
last week, claimed a $24.6 billion six-year cost.
   The perennial dispute over capital gains accounts for
$22.3 billion of the difference. Congressional analysts say
the Bush capital-gains tax cut would result in the loss of
$15.4 billion for the government over six years. The Treasury
says it would actually raise $6.9 billion because lower tax
rates would encourage many investors to sell assets they have
long been sitting on. The congressional and administration
estimates aren't significantly different on the other
elements of the Bush budget.
   Richard Darman, the White House Budget Director, assured
the committee that the government can afford the seven-point
plan the president wants adopted immediately. He estimated
that those provisions will cost $4.5 billion over six years.
"So, we've provided other revenue raisers way in excess of
that," Mr. Darman said. "We've provided more than enough."
   The Democrats' own package is likely to include variations
of the cuts for individuals and businesses. They also are
expected to approve some provision cutting taxes on capital
gains, but one that is more limited than Mr. Bush wants. The
Democrats also propose to pay for their package at least in
part by raising taxes on upper-income taxpayers.