Rule of Law:
   Justice Scalia's Ally on the Court -- And Then Some
   ----
   By L. Gordon Crovitz
The felon here was David Dawson, who in 1986 escaped a
Delaware prison to murder and rob a woman. In the
now-required separate deliberation on whether aggravating
circumstances outweighed mitigating factors, the jury decided
Dawson deserved the death penalty. Dawson's lawyers had cited
acts of kindness to his family and membership in Alcoholics
Anonymous as good character traits. The trial judge, citing a
line of Supreme Court precedents, barred prosecutors from
telling the jury about Dawson's swastika tattoos or his
drawing of a swastika in his jail cell.
   The judge did let prosecutors tell jurors that Dawson was
a member of Aryan Brotherhood, a violent and racist prison
gang. Chief Justice Rehnquist reversed the death penalty on
First Amendment grounds, saying that Dawson had a right to
associate with anyone he wanted, including a prison gang,
without the jury knowing. He wrote that since the Aryan
Brotherhood wasn't directly related to the crime, membership
proved "nothing more than Dawson's abstract beliefs."
   But Justice Thomas figured that Aryan Brotherhood must
signify something. "A jury reasonably could conclude from
Dawson's membership in a prison gang that he had engaged in
some sort of forbidden activities while in prison," which he
said would also "rebut Dawson's attempt to show that he was
kind to others."
   Justice Thomas said there was no reason to lay down an
exclusionary rule to hide this evidence from jurors. "Jurors
do not leave their knowledge of the world behind when they
enter a courtroom and they do not need to have the obvious
spelled out for them," he wrote. "The concept of a prison
gang is not so mysterious that it requires an encyclopedic
definition or a greater explanation than any of the other
organizations to which Dawson belonged, such as Alcoholics
Anonymous."
   The newest justice didn't ridicule his colleagues directly
for treating prison gangs as just another legitimate
association. Instead, he cited federal appeals court Judge
Frank Easterbrook in another case that made the same point.
   "Surely they do not believe that prison gangs meet every
month to discuss The Critique of Pure Reason and debate how
Stanley Tigerman's buildings differ from those of the Bauhaus
school," Justice Thomas wrote, citing Judge Easterbrook.
"Gangs affiliate for mutual support, but not the kind
contemplated by the National Labor Relations Act."
   Justice Thomas also pointed out the irony that the court
approved victim-impact evidence in death penalty cases last
year in Payne v. Tennessee, but now created a new double
standard: Lawyers for inmates can cite good associations, but
prosecutors can't point out bad ones.
   This was not Justice Thomas's first tough stand in a
prison case. In a dissent last month, joined only by Justice
Scalia, he would have barred a lawsuit by an inmate who,
while handcuffed and shackled, was beaten by Louisiana prison
guards.
   This caused hyperventilation among liberals. A New York
Times editorial called Justice Thomas "the youngest, cruelest
justice." Columnists managed to find "the outstanding
mediocrity of his mind" in this "disgusting dissent" (Mary
McGrory) and lecture "Clarence" that he should do the right
thing because he was picked for his "status as symbol of
America's outsiders" (William Raspberry). These commentaries
notably failed to mention the legal arguments in the case.
It's the majority opinion that has the explaining to do.
   Sandra O'Connor's opinion in Hudson v. McMillan was guided
by what she called "evolving standards of decency that mark
the progress of a maturing society." When you see evolving
standards, decency, progress and maturing society all in one
sentence, reach for your Constitution. These are code words
of judicial activism, not part of the Eighth Amendment
prohibition on "cruel and unusual punishment." The majority
upheld the lawsuit here even though a lower court said the
harm to the prisoner -- $800 in "minor injuries," including
bruises and loosened teeth -- didn't justify a constitutional
claim.
   Justice Thomas's dissent includes no such shadows or
penumbra. "The sole issue in this case, as it comes to us, is
a legal one: must a prisoner who claims to have been
subjected to `cruel and unusual punishment' establish at a
minimum that he has suffered a significant injury?" Justice
Thomas wrote. "A use of force that causes only insignificant
harm to a prisoner may be immoral, it may be tortious, it may
be criminal, and it may even be remediable under other
provisions of the federal Constitution, but it is not `cruel
and unusual punishment.'"
   Justice Thomas reminded the other justices that the
Founders intended that the Cruel and Unusual Punishment
Clause would apply only to unfairness in the criminal
sentence itself. "Surely prison was not a more congenial
place in the early years of the Republic," Justice Thomas
wrote; it wasn't until a 1976 case that the Supreme Court
decided to apply the clause to a prisoner's complaint about a
deprivation in prison. Justice Thomas said the court has now
"cut the Eighth Amendment loose from its historical
moorings."
   As a result, prisoners -- already America's Most Litigious
thanks to free time and free lawyers -- can now sue claiming
only trivial harm. State prisons can expect lawsuits from
inmates complaining about everything from the emotional
distress of double-bunking to balding treatments not offered
by prison health care.
   Justice Thomas stressed that the prisoner here could have
sued under state law for the beating, but his lawyer wanted a
constitutional case. "Abusive behavior by prison guards is
deplorable conduct that properly evokes outrage and
contempt," Justice Thomas wrote, "but that does not mean that
it is invariably unconstitutional. The Eighth Amendment is
not, and should not be turned into, a National Code of Prison
Regulation."
   It's not surprising that Justices Scalia and Thomas almost
always reach the same result since they both hew to an
original-intent analysis. Whether the result is that an Aryan
Brother should be taken to meet his Maker or that a beaten
prisoner should have sued in state court, Justice Thomas
understands his job is to reflect the Constitution, not
political fashion.