Asian Opportunity:
   Some U.S. Firms Profit
   In Booming Far East
   Despite Mighty Japan
   ---
   But Many American Concerns
   Shy Away From Region,
   Fearing the Competition
   ---
   Barbie and Ken in Indonesia
   ----
   By Urban C. Lehner
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Now Dana is following up by investing $11 million in a 40%
stake in a drive-shaft factory in Thailand and looking again
at a possible plant in Indonesia. "We sell drive shafts to
Toyota in the states, we export to Japan -- it's a natural
for us in Thailand," says Carl Hirsch, executive vice
president. "We're going there to meet our Japanese customers'
needs."
   If Japan's economic star shines brightly in Europe and
America these days, in Southeast Asia it is the rising sun.
Last year, Japan's exports to Asia exceeded its exports to
the U.S. for the first time in many years.
   Is this new star over Asia the Death Star for American and
European companies? Many Americans are starting to worry that
Japanese companies are pushing the U.S. out of Asia. Yet even
as they fret, others see opportunity.
   General Motors Corp., for example, has been studying a
major investment in a plant in Indonesia even though Japanese
competitors are already there in force. The opportunity
seekers see a different Asia -- a teeming continent on the
way to becoming the world's richest market. Indonesia alone
has a population of 180 million, nearly twice that of Eastern
Europe. Its economy is growing at a 6%-plus annual rate.
   "The Asian market will be so big that there will be room
for American companies," says Toshio Watanabe, a professor at
Tokyo Industrial University and a leading theoretician of
Japan's economic move into Asia.
   With so many opportunities for American companies in Asia,
the mystery may be why more companies haven't exploited them.
Many American business people based in Asia complain that if
the U.S. is falling behind here, it's its own fault.
   "There isn't any special {Japanese} effort to push the
Americans out of Asia; it's just normal competitive
activity," says James Castle, president of the American
Chamber of Commerce in Jakarta.
   Based on the cumulative investment of the last few
decades, including oil and other resource ventures, the U.S.
is still probably the biggest foreign investor in some Asian
countries. But U.S. investment in Asia is growing so slowly
that in some Southeast Asian countries, the U.S. ranks No. 4
or 5 in new foreign investment, behind not only Japan but
also Taiwan, Hong Kong and South Korea.
   In Indonesia, some worry the real reason for American
reluctance to invest is a needless fear of the Japanese.
"Many Americans have taken the attitude that this part of the
world has become Japan's sphere of influence," says Hadi
Soesastro, director of the Center for Strategic and
International Studies in Jakarta. "It's bad for us. It's also
bad for the U.S."
   Dana's experience suggests that American companies can use
Japan's growing presence in Asia to their own advantage. But
Japanese dominance does change the rules of the game. Maybe
not for already-entrenched foreign companies, like IBM and
Coca-Cola, or companies in businesses the Japanese don't
dominate, like oil; maybe not for Mattel Inc., which recently
broke ground on a $20 million Barbie Doll plant in Indonesia
-- Japanese toy makers having never quite come up with a
match for Barbie and Ken.
   But other American companies are finding that to break
into Southeast Asia these days, they must make products to
Japanese standards or tap Japanese distributors, or even
launch attacks on the ultimate fortress, the Japanese market
itself. "The nerve center of Asia is in Tokyo," says Dana's
Mr. Hirsch.
   Sanyo Electric Co.'s electronic parts plant in Cimanggis,
Indonesia, illustrates the point. Almost every piece of
equipment in the factory, which is being expanded to make
videocassette recorders, is Japanese; the notable exception
is an IBM mainframe computer.
   Could other American companies sell to the plant? Maybe,
but "you can't do it here," says Masahiko Arashima, who's in
charge of VCR production. "The drawings and designs are all
made in Japan. You have to sell" to Sanyo in Japan.
   In pursuit of Asian markets, Northwestern Steel  Wire Co.
of Sterling, Ill., went so far as to obtain Japan Industrial
Standards certification for its structural-steel products.
The JIS certification process took months and involved
training sessions for 1,400 employees. But having the JIS
mark means "you automatically jump up a notch" in the eyes of
Asian buyers, says Charles Biermann, senior vice president
for sales.
   Other American companies are finding they can challenge
Japanese companies in Asia if they call in Uncle Sam for
help, and Uncle Sam is increasingly willing to provide it.
President Bush has underscored this with his current trip to
Singapore, South Korea and Japan accompanied by American
business leaders.
   American Telephone  Telegraph Co. has already benefited
from top-level U.S. help. When an ATT-led consortium
recently went up against one headed by NEC Corp. and Sumitomo
Corp. in bidding on a $300 million Indonesian
telecommunications contract, U.S. officials feared that
Japanese political influence would give the NEC-Sumitomo bid
an edge. Vice President Quayle, visiting Jakarta, intervened
with Indonesian officials on ATT's behalf and President Bush
wrote Indonesian President Suharto a letter.
   In awarding the contract in late-1990, Indonesia doubled
the size of the order and gave each consortium half.
   Guardian Industries Corp. of Northville, Mich., also got
help from Uncle Sam when it wanted to build a $117 million
glass plant in Thailand two years ago. Guardian and its local
partner were initially denied a permit after their
application was opposed by the managing director of Thai
Asahi Glass Co., which held a near monopoly on local glass
production. U.S. officials, including Mr. Quayle, met with
Thai leaders, and the denial was eventually reversed.
   Some American companies are trying to crack the toughest
nut of all -- Japanese overseas development aid, or ODA --
and the U.S. government is looking for ways to help them. One
advantage Japanese companies have in Asia is the huge sums in
ODA their country doles out. In Indonesia, for instance, it
was $1.8 billion last year, compared with $145 million in
U.S. aid. The Japanese aid finances road, hospital and other
construction projects that provide business to Japanese
companies or Japanese-backed local ones. Although Japan says
most of its aid projects are open to bids from companies of
any nationality, it's often Japanese trading companies that
dream up the projects in the first place, giving Japanese
contractors an inside track.
   A few months ago, the Agency for International
Development, which directs U.S. foreign aid, assigned a
senior official to the U.S. Embassy in Tokyo to, among other
things, study Japanese ODA bidding procedures on behalf of
U.S. industry. The Commerce Department also has a task force
looking for ways to help U.S. companies win ODA contracts.
That Japan's ODA projects are open to bids from non-Japanese
contractors "is a well-kept secret to U.S. companies," a
Commerce Department official says.
   Many American business people and officials remain
skeptical that the ODA effort will ever yield much, but there
are a few success stories. General Electric Co. recently sold
16 locomotives to the Philippines with the help of Mitsui 
Co., the big Japanese trading company. The key to the deal
was 2.9 billion yen ($22.3 million) in loans that Mitsui
arranged from the Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund, one of
Japan's main aid-giving agencies.
   "There's been a sea change" in official Japanese attitudes
toward ODA, says Thomas Tucker, GE president for North Asia.
   Also favoring U.S. companies in Asia are local attitudes,
which are almost universally positive. Most Asians are eager
not to be totally dependent on the Japanese, especially since
Japanese companies are seen as reluctant to entrust foreign
nationals with real executive responsibilities.
   "After 15 to 20 years, many American and European
multinational companies {in Singapore} have Singaporeans in
charge, but there is none in a Japanese company," says Lee
Kwan Yew, Singapore's senior minister. Mr. Lee says his
response is "to get as many Americans, Europeans and others
into Singapore so that I am not so beholden" to the Japanese.
   Many American executives in Asia worry that if U.S.
companies shrink from the opportunities here, America's
global economic clout will be severely weakened. "If America
isn't competitive and clashing with the major industrial
powers -- particularly Japan -- around the world . . . we're
in serious trouble," says Mr. Castle of the American Chamber
of Commerce in Jakarta. "This is the fastest growing area of
the world. It matters a lot that we do well here."