Mutual Funds:
   Short-Term World Income Funds Thrive
   On CD Shock, but They Aren't Risk-Free
   ----
   By Randall Smith
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The assets of short-term world income funds have soared to
more than $20 billion today from under $500 million in 1989.
The two biggest sponsors, Alliance Capital Management L.P.
and Merrill Lynch  Co., have sold $13 billion of such funds
carrying loads, or sales charges, of as much as 3% of assets.
   These funds may deserve a niche-but only a niche-as
supplements to certificates of deposit and other fixed-income
investments for sophisticated investors who understand the
sudden moves in currencies and interest rates.
   But many other investors, who are buying these funds as
money-market fund substitutes, may be making a mistake. The
share price-or net asset value-of money funds normally stays
constant; money funds invest in short-term securities
denominated in dollars.
   But investors in short-term world income funds not only
are taking currency risks, they are also taking an
interest-rate risk. The average maturity of the portfolio of
world income funds-one or two years is much longer than the
average money fund. If the dollar goes up, or interest rates
go up, investors could lose money as the funds' asset value
sinks.
   That happened last year to unlucky investors in some of
the worst-performing short-term world income funds.
   Take the $45 million Equitable ShortTerm World Income
Fund. Its total return for 1991-including interest income and
price changes-was a less-than-sizzling 0.72%. Investors who
paid the fund's 3% sales charge thus had a return of %
negative  2.3%. In a start-up mode early last year, the fund
didn't fully hedge its foreign-currency positions, according
to Equitable Executive Vice President Zane Brown. So it
incurred losses when the dollar surged last spring.
   Or how about the $174 million Pilgrim Global Short-Term
Multi-Market Income Fund? Its investors took a loss of 4% in
the fourth quarter. Anthony DeAngelis, a spokesman for
Pilgrim Group, would say only, "To comment on one month or a
quarter is silly."
   On average, short-term world income funds did outpace
money funds' returns in 1991, 7.37% to 5.67%, according to
Lipper Analytical Services Inc. Some of that difference
stemmed from falling interest rates that boosted the asset
value of the world funds.
   But the variation in returns among the 41 short-term world
income funds was far greater than among traditional money
funds. The difference between the highest and lowest-yielding
money funds was only 2.24 percentage points; for the world
funds, the difference in returns was a whopping 15.5
percentage points. Of the two biggest world funds, Merrill's
returned 6.28%, Alliance's 8.75%.
   Some of these funds, such as the $400 million Scudder
Short Term Global Income Fund, operate by hedging part of
their portfolios and making other bets on currency moves. Two
other fund operators, Fidelity Investments and Shearson
Lehman Brothers Inc., have small single-currency funds
designed as currency plays. Both the Shearson and Fidelity
yen funds had total 1991 returns of about 15% vs. 6% for
their German mark funds. Such funds, though potentially very
volatile, are better for investors who want to diversify away
from the U.S. dollar without incurring the potential costs of
hedging.
   What makes short-term world income funds particularly
tricky is that many use cross-hedging. If they hedged their
high-yielding foreign investments directly against the
dollar, they would hedge away all the extra returns. Instead,
they try to get a cheaper hedge with a lower-yielding foreign
currency that should move in tandem with the high-yield
currency.
   Robert Sinche, manager of the Alliance Short-Term
Multi-Market Trust, explained that in mid-January, short-term
U.S. yields were 4%, compared with 10.5% in the United
Kingdom and 9.5% in Germany. Mr. Sinche said he could pick up
an extra one percentage point over U.S. rates with the
following strategy:
   Buy British notes at 10.5%; then hedge against a decline
in the British pound by selling German marks against the
dollar. The hedge would cost the fund 5.5 percentage points
of yield-the difference between holding dollar investments
yielding 4% and paying 9.5% to borrow the marks. Subtract the
5.5-point hedge cost from the 10.5% British yield and, voila,
you get a yield of 5%-a premium of one percentage point over
the U.S. money market fund rate.
   All clear?
   These funds are obviously difficult to run. Cross-hedging
is inexact. Several funds stumbled last fall when Finland, in
a surprise move, devalued the high-yielding markka by 12%
against other European currencies. That hit the $1 billion
Blanchard Short-Term Global Income Fund especially hard.
Blanchard had 12% of its assets in Finnish markkas that were
supposed to be hedged by German marks. So the fund's return
for the fourth quarter was only 0.18%. And that held its
total 1991 return to a below-average 6.58%.
   Blanchard sells its fund aggressively as "Designed for
investors seeking . . . higher yields than money market funds
or certificates of deposit." Not until page four of a glossy
brochure does Blanchard warn that the fund "is not a money
market fund and its share price will fluctuate."
   A marketing brochure by Merrill Lynch is a little clearer,
but it is just as obviously targeted at dissatisfied
money-fund investors. It says the Merrill Lynch Short-Term
Global Income Fund offers "higher yields than those available
on fixed-price money market funds."
   Catherine Gillis, an analyst at Morningstar Inc., a
Chicago-based mutual-fund research concern, says short-term
world income funds "make a lot of sense in terms of
diversification in a fixed-income portfolio. But it's wrong
to consider them money-market substitutes."
   Some other mutual-fund operators like Dreyfus Corp. have
decided against offering such funds because, as Dreyfus
President Joseph DiMartino puts it, "We're just a little bit
uncomfortable taking on that risk." The funds have grown, he
noted, in a period when the dollar has been declining. "So
far, it's been a one-way street. But how is this going to
perform when the dollar gets stronger?" The same point also
applies to interest rates, which have been falling, and so
boosting the principal value of the funds' holdings.
   Alliance's Mr. Sinche agrees short-term world income funds
aren't the place to put one's entire short-term savings. He
argues they deserve to represent 20% to 25% of a portfolio of
longer-term CDs and the like. He says the funds are meant for
"investors who are traditionally CD buyers who are willing to
take some additional risk to try to get some additional
income."