Foreign Exchange:
   Dollar Rises Against the Mark on Rumor
   Of Yeltsin's Ouster and U.S. Income Data
   ----
   By John van Rosendaal
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
Late in New York, the dollar was quoted at 1.6165 marks,
up from 1.6014 marks late Wednesday. Sterling was trading at
$1.7815, down from $1.7985. The U.S. currency was unchanged
at 125.75 yen.
   In early trading in Tokyo Friday, the dollar was at 125.95
yen, up from 125.60 at Thursday's close. Meanwhile, the U.S.
currency was trading at 1.6160 marks, up from 1.6067 marks on
Thursday.
   Fears on Thursday of central-bank intervention and large
dollar-selling orders that the market thinks exist around 126
yen are hindering the dollar's moves against the Japanese
currency.
   The market continues to hunt for direction in the absence
of clear indications about the U.S. economy and doubts about
the strength of the Japanese and German economies, traders
said.
   "This market has been crazy," said Robin Cheung, a vice
president at Unibank AS, referring to the extreme volatility
since the end of December. "This year has been amazingly
wild."
   The rumor that Mr. Yeltsin had been ousted by political
foes broke as European trading was winding down, and the
dollar rallied to its intraday highs of 1.6255 marks and
125.95 yen. Its source wasn't clear, but the rumor could have
been triggered by a critical article on the front page of the
Russian daily Pravda, in which Vice President Alexander
Rutskoi renewed charges that Mr. Yeltsin's reform program
could destroy Russia.
   Mr. Rutskoi, a former military officer, warned that the
breakup of the Soviet Union could be repeated within Russia
itself. "People will not long tolerate Russia's crisis
situation, which became particularly clear in the very first
weeks after price liberalization," the vice president said.
   Market analysts said nervousness over Mr. Yeltsin's fate
will continue to underpin the dollar over the next few days,
until the Russian leader returns to Moscow from his trip to
the U.K. and the U.S. Yeltsin was in London for talks with
Prime Minister John Major when the talk of his ouster hit the
currency market. The Russian leader is due to meet with
President Bush this weekend.
   The mark is vulnerable to rumors of upheaval in the
Commonwealth of Independent States because of Germany's
proximity and debt exposure to the former Soviet republics.
   Before the rumor emerged, the dollar seesawed on mixed
U.S. economic data. Bearish jobless claims and durable goods
data sent it falling to its intraday low of 1.5930 marks from
1.6023 marks just before the indicators' release.
   Initial claims for state unemployment insurance on a
seasonally adjusted basis rose 24,000 in the week ended Jan.
18 to 464,000 from a revised 440,000 the previous week.
Expectations were for a decline of 1,000 claims in the latest
week.
   New factory orders for durable goods fell a seasonally
adjusted 5.0% in December from the preceding month, compared
with an expected decline of just 0.7%.
   The numbers were later offset partly by news that personal
income in the U.S. increased a seasonally adjusted 1.0% in
December from November, compared with expectations of a 0.6%
rise. For all of 1991, personal income totaled $4.834
trillion, up 3.3% from 1990.
   The dollar's rebound was aided by technical factors that
point to a stronger dollar and by stop-loss buying orders
above 1.60 marks, traders said. But the dollar's strength is
limited because of uncertainty about the U.S. economy, which
is confining the U.S. unit within its current range of 1.58
to 1.63 marks, traders said.
   Peter Connolly, foreign-exchange manager at Wells Fargo
Bank, San Francisco, said the market is awaiting the release
Feb. 7 of January's U.S. employment figures for the first
indication of the impact of the Federal Reserve's
one-percentage-point cut in its discount rate Dec. 20. The
discount rate is what the Fed charges commercial banks for
loans.
   Until then, the dollar isn't expected to stray from its
recent range, though traders said there will be a bias toward
the high end of the trading band.
   The dollar will be helped against the mark by the
nervousness over the situation in Russia, and it could be
boosted by the outcome of a strike vote in the German steel
industry, due today. The wage talks could determine whether
the Bundesbank, the German central bank, is going to lower
interest rates, which would hurt the mark, said Bob
Morrissey, a senior trader at Bank of Boston.