France Is Appalled
   By Report of Affair
   Of TV Personalities
   ---
   Affair Is OK, but Report Isn't;
   Have the Rules Changed?
   Paris Shivers at Possibility
   ----
   By Peter Gumbel
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
How vulgar, the French say, to make an issue of the sex
lives of presidential candidates, Supreme Court justices and
others, as has been happening in the U.S. "Can one still
court a woman in America in 1992 without moral terrorism
winning a complete victory?" sneered Anne Sinclair, a French
TV journalist, in an interview with film maker Woody Allen.
"America has always been extremely immature about sexuality,"
Mr. Allen replied.
   This veneer of self-righteousness is suddenly looking
fragile, however. The reason: A foreign upstart has breached
the unwritten French rule about unwritten French affairs. The
Paris establishment is unnerved, wondering whether the rules
are still valid. If not, it frets, will those many discreet
liaisons turn out to be dangerous after all?
   "Taboos are not eternal," warned one news magazine,
L'Evenement du Jeudi, in a nervous commentary on the matter.
"We all hope it's not the thin end of the wedge," confides
the editor of a national daily.
   The main cause of this alarm is Voici, a gossipy weekly
that is loosely modeled on People magazine of the U.S. and
published by a French subsidiary of Germany's Bertelsmann
group. Usually, it's filled with inoffensive tales of the
rich and famous. Then, in its issue of Dec. 23, 1991, it
gate-crashed the salon.
   In a breathless report headlined, "Their love shines
through the screen," Voici linked Patrick Poivre d'Arvor, the
debonair but slightly disheveled anchorman of French TV's
most-watched news program, with Claire Chazal, his Dior-clad
colleague who reads the news at weekends. The report not only
claimed they were lovers, but gave details of how they
allegedly had met for many a clandestine rendezvous at a
hotel near the Arc de Triomphe.
   There were even pictures.
   The reaction was furious. "I was disgusted," says Mr.
Poivre d'Arvor, a 45-year-old who is married with four
children. "It left terrible scars." (Ms. Chazal hasn't
commented.)
   PPDA, as Mr. Poivre d'Arvor is often called for short, is
no stranger to publicity. The French press had a field day,
for example, when he visited Iraq during the Kuwait crisis to
interview Saddam Hussein, and met a French hostage couple who
begged him to save their baby. He smuggled the 18-month-old
out in his luggage.
   Nor did he hide his feelings for Ms. Chazal, 34. In an
interview published a month before the Voici article, Mr.
Poivre d'Arvor said she had been "a very close friend for a
long time." Still, as a professional journalist, he says he
believes it is "very important that there are limits, yellow
lines that don't get crossed." Voici crossed, so he sued.
   French libel laws aren't like American ones. They place a
much stronger emphasis on protecting individual privacy than
free speech. Truth may not be a sufficient defense.
   At Prisma Press, Voici's parent company, there was "a huge
fuss for a couple of days," says one official. "It wasn't the
form so much as the content. The story read like a police
report." Axel Ganz, Prisma's president and a rising star at
Bertelsmann, says the article was "a mistake," and insists he
respects French traditions of privacy. The PPDA affair, he
adds, has been "settled." That's news to Mr. Poivre d'Arvor,
who says he hasn't heard from Mr. Ganz and is continuing with
his suit.
   If the affair were just a one-time incident unlikely to be
repeated, Parisian society could breathe easy. What is
troubling, however, is the suspicion that privacy isn't what
it used to be -- and that sex may sell as well in France as
it does everywhere else.
   In the old days, the closest anyone came to writing about
affairs was when Le Canard Enchaine revealed that
then-President Valery Giscard d'Estaing had been involved in
a car collision with a milk delivery van very early one
morning. The paper didn't need to say more.
   But now, not only was the Voici issue in question snapped
up, but it was quickly followed by cover stories about Ms.
Chazal in two rival magazines. Mindful of the legal pitfalls,
they dwelled mainly on her childhood (ordinary), her career
rise (rapid) and her blond hair (dyed). The only men
mentioned were her father and brother.
   The French establishment already had one eyebrow raised at
an equally surprising, albeit unrelated, breach of etiquette.
Just a few weeks previously, former Prime Minister Michel
Rocard had taken the extremely unusual step of announcing in
public that he was splitting up with his wife, Michele.
   The disclosure, in an interview in Le Point magazine, had
all the appearance of a pre-emptive strike. Although nothing
had appeared in print until then, the news about the
separation was well known in Paris, and Mr. Rocard said he
hoped his statement would be the last word on the matter. "We
have the good fortune of not being afflicted by the American
syndrome," he said at the time.
   The French still claim to be indifferent to the private
affairs of public figures. "I don't see why the sentimental
life of people should play a role. The citizen isn't
interested," says Mr. Poivre d'Arvor, the anchorman, who also
hosts a public affairs program called "The Right to Know."
   "Axel Ganz is just trying to sell magazines," snarls
Patrick Mahe, the editor of Paris Match, a longer-established
glossy weekly. "If a dancer from the Crazy Horse {a Paris
nightclub} told Voici that she had had an affair 12 years ago
with a leading politician, people would laugh and say, aren't
you lucky, madam."
   Paris Match, insists Mr. Mahe, doesn't consider Voici to
be competition, and wouldn't dream of publishing anything
about people's love lives -- unless, of course, they happen
to be a U.S. presidential candidate. Paris Match recently
devoted four pages to Bill Clinton's alleged affairs,
including a picture of Gennifer Flowers.
   "There's a false morality," says Mr. Ganz of Prisma Press.
Prominent people "employ PR people who behave wildly to get
you to publish things," he says, "and yet if you write about
who they are living with, then it's suddenly taboo."