Japan to Tighten
   Limits on Exports
   Of Autos to U.S.
   ----
   By Eduardo Lachica
   Staff Reporter of the Wall Street Journal
Since Japanese exports have been well below the ceiling
number in recent years, the actual reduction will be somewhat
smaller than the two figures suggest. Exports to the U.S. in
the year ending March 31 are expected to total about
1,730,000 units, the ministry said.
   MITI's decision had been a matter of intense speculation,
as automotive trade accounts for most of the roughly $40
billion U.S.-Japan trade imbalance and has become the focal
point of bilateral trade tensions.
   MITI officials last month acknowledged that they were
considering lowering the export limit. But until the
ministry's announcement Thursday, they had insisted that they
weren't ruling out maintaining the 2.3 million-unit ceiling
or even doing away with the limit altogether.
   Political and economic factors weighed in the decision,
and Japanese officials privately acknowledged the dilemma
involved. Massive losses by U.S. auto makers and large-scale
layoffs had raised the pressure on Tokyo to reduce the
limits. But any such action would fuel criticism that the
U.S. and Japan are shifting toward a form of managed trade.
In addition, given that actual exports have fallen below the
ceiling for the past five years, MITI would have to defend
the new level as a meaningful restraint yet not overly
harmful to Japanese makers.
   MITI officials deny speculation that the Japanese
government, anxious not to do anything that might hurt
President Bush in Tuesday's Michigan presidential primary,
delayed their announcement until Thursday.
   Earlier this week, Allan D. Gilmour, head of Ford Motor
Corp.'s world-wide automotive operation, said he believes
that an export ceiling "in the neighborhood of 1.3 million
(cars) starts to stem imports."
   The voluntary limit, begun in 1981, has been fixed at 2.3
million cars a year since 1985. Because of increased capacity
at their so-called transplant factories in the U.S., however,
Japanese makers have been able to cut back on exports even as
they increased the share of Japanese-brand cars in the U.S.
   Tokyo's approval of a so-called type designation for
Pontiac's Grand-Am SE sedan and SE coupe was in keeping with
a promise to give the Big Three U.S. auto makers greater
access to the Japanese market. The agreement means that
individual units of these models won't be subject to costly
and time-consuming inspections. Without such designation,
foreignmade cars can't be shipped to Japan in lots of more
than 2,000.
   A senior U.S. official said that the two Grand-Am models
are the first U.S. cars to be approved by the Japanese
Ministry of Transport for such designation. European auto
makers already have type-designation approvals for 20 models.
The official said that partly explains why European auto
makers have done considerably better than the U.S. in the
Japanese market.
   The Transport Ministry told the U.S. Commerce Department
that it approved the General Motors applications in a
relatively short time -- roughly 40 days. Kiyoshi Terashima,
the ministry's vice minister for international trade, has
assured the Bush administration that more approvals will
"follow soon."
   A General Motors spokesman said the Transport Ministry
approvals are a "step in the right direction." But he said
that U.S. auto makers still have other trade barriers to
overcome before they can significantly increase their sales
in Japan.
   Last year, GM sold only about 1,500 Grand-Am SE sedans and
coupes in Japan. The U.S. exported only about 20,000 cars to
Japan last year, and many of those were Honda Accords
assembled at the Japanese carmaker's Marysville, Ohio, plant.
Ford Motor Co. and Chrysler Corp., along with GM, have
announced plans to gain a larger share of the Japanese
market. U.S. officials said Chrysler's plans could include
the sale of right-hand-drive Jeep Cherokees. Tokyo indicated
earlier that because in Japan, as in Britain, people drive on
the left side of the road, U.S. auto makers could more easily
increase their market share if they put the steering wheel on
the right-hand side.
   Ford's right-hand-drive version of its Probe model could
be ready for shipment to Japan this year, said Robert
Sparvero, general manager of Ford's North American automotive
export facility. The remodeled Probes, which also are to be
marketed in Britain, will be made at a Flat Rock, Mich.,
plant operated by Ford's Japanese partner, Mazda Motor Corp.
   The U.S. official said the Commerce Department could help
speed the type-designation process if it became a
"co-applicant" of the U.S. auto makers for such status. This
would require the Japanese Ministry of Transport to deal with
the department, which has been negotiating for such changes
in the automotive trade.
   Separately, Trade Representative Carla Hills expressed
support for the Justice Department's plans to broaden its
authority to investigate collusive practices of foreign-based
companies if these practices are shown to harm U.S.
consumers.