Monday's Markets:
   Industrials
   Drop 10.95
   To 3254.03
   ---
   Stock Indexes Retreat
   From Record Levels;
   Dollar Edges Lower
   ----
   By Douglas R. Sease
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Traders said action in most financial markets was subdued
because of the Martin Luther King Jr. holiday. While trading
on the New York Stock Exchange was active, with 180.9 million
shares changing hands, volume was sharply down from the
frantic pace of recent weeks that saw more than 200 million
shares trading every day.
   Analysts said the momentum of the powerful rally that has
carried the industrial average up more than 400 points from
its early December low may be slowing. They cited several
factors that may retard further gains in stock prices,
including the recent rise in long-term interest rates and the
continued slump in Japanese stock prices.
   But for the most part, traders expect investors to
continue to seek out shares of economically sensitive
cyclical companies at the expense of long-favored growth
stocks. If that rotation continues in earnest, some analysts
expect the industrial average and other major stock-market
indexes to remain fairly stable, as sharp gains in cyclical
stocks offset declines in the prices of expensive growth
stocks.
   While stock investors apparently are prepared to shrug off
poor fourth-quarter earnings reports, some market watchers
are expecting a stock-market correction in February. They say
that strong market gains in January typically are followed by
weak performance in February, which tends to be a bad month
for stocks in any case.
   In major market action:
                                                                                                       

   Stock prices fell in active trading. Declining issues on
the Big Board were ahead of advancers, 947 to 759.
                                                                                                       

   Bond prices rose. The market was closed yesterday in New
York because of the Martin Luther King Jr. holiday. In
European trading, the Treasury's benchmark 30-year bond
gained nearly three-eighths of a point, or about $3.75 for
each $1,000 face amount. The yield on the issue stood at
7.58%.
                                                                                                       

   The dollar was down. In late New York trading the currency
was quoted at 1.5902 marks and 123.39 yen, compared with
1.5930 marks and 124.45 yen Friday.