International:
   World Wire
   ----
   Compiled by Richard L. Holman
In a blow to Poland's Prime Minister Jan Olszewski,
Parliament rejected any softening of strict market reforms of
the past two years.
   Many members of the Sejm, Parliament's lower chamber,
cited a hyperinflation threat from Warsaw's move to allow
greater government spending and a gradual expansion of the
money supply to encourage investment and exports.
   Separately, Parliament confirmed Hanna Gronkiewicz-Waltz's
appointment as central bank president, ending a conflict with
President Lech Walesa. Ms. Gronkiewicz-Waltz, 40 years old,
is a public and bank law specialist. Mr. Walesa proposed her
for the job in November, but the lawmakers in December
rejected her nomination, saying she lacked managerial
experience.
   The previous bank chief was arrested in September on
charges of fiscal neglect in a trading company scandal
involving state banks' funds.
                                                                                                       

   CHINA, RUSSIA SIGN TRADE PACT
                                                                                                       

   China and Russia signed their first economic and trade
agreement since the Soviet Union collapsed. Beijing gave few
details but said it hoped to establish cooperative
enterprises in Russia. Separately, the World Bank and United
Nations Development Program agreed to give China $3.7 million
for two environmental-protection projects. One is for China,
the world's largest coal user, to study ways to reduce
emissions of carbon dioxide and other gases. The other is to
develop a strategy for protecting endangered species, such as
the giant panda, Manchurian tiger and snow leopard.
                                                                                                       

   BRITAIN ISSUES HARASSMENT CODE
                                                                                                       

   Britain, in a campaign to combat sexual harassment, sent a
code of conduct to 100,000 companies with more than 10
employees. The government said harassment at work not only
hurts people but is bad for business, damaging morale and
efficiency. The 12-page leaflet lists offensive actions,
advises how to seek help and warns firms of legal trouble if
they don't discipline offenders. The government received 427
sexual-harassment complaints last year, up 50% from 1990.
                                                                                                       

   ARGENTINA WINS GATT PRAISE
                                                                                                       

   Argentina's reform program was lauded for its promise of
creating one of the world's most open economies. The General
Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, the main world trade group,
praised Buenos Aires for transforming the cosseted economy.
Inflation is at a 20-year low, privatization is working, the
secondary debt market is growing, capital is returning,
exports are expanding, and rising imports have begun to cut
the trade surplus. But GATT questioned the government's
maintaining close links with industry to improve economic
performance.
                                                                                                       

   AFRICAN IVORY BAN TO CONTINUE
                                                                                                       

   Five African countries agreed to a continued moratorium on
global ivory trade. Botswana, Malawi, Zimbabwe, Namibia and
South Africa, at a Japanese meeting on trade in endangered
species, said the voluntary ban would allow time to create a
trading system to discourage illegal ivory dealings.
                                                                                                       

   MANILA'S ECONOMIC PLAN CLEARED
                                                                                                       

   The International Monetary Fund approved the Philippines'
economic stabilization program. Manila hopes to attract about
$5 billion in foreign loans and aid to spur long-term
economic growth. The IMF will immediately release $80 million
of a $370 million standby-credit facility. The 1992 program
seeks to slash the government budget deficit 66% to 9 billion
pesos ($357.1 million) through spending cuts and increased
revenues. Manila must try to tame inflation to 10% from last
year's 17.7% average rate. The economic growth goal is 2.5%
to 3%, compared with last year's 0.05% contraction.
                                                                                                       

   TAIWAN OFFERS RECORD BUDGET
                                                                                                       

   Taiwan proposed a record government budget of 1.086
trillion New Taiwan dollars (US$43.39 billion) for the year
starting July 1. The plan was hailed for potentially
stabilizing development and criticized for over-reliance on
debt.
   The spending proposal represents an 11% increase from
fiscal 1992. Under the budget, Taipei will issue NT$235
billion of bonds to cover a revenue shortfall. Bond issuance
could account for 22% of total revenue. Repaying that debt,
economists said, could impede long-term economic development
as Taiwan seeks to finance an estimated NT$8 trillion of
public-works expansion programs through 1996.
   Revenue from taxes and government-run monopolies are to
rise 1.7%, far less than projected economic growth of 7%,
reflecting tax evasion problems.
   Defense spending, the biggest budget item, accounts for
24% of the total. Educational and cultural spending come in
just above the constitutionally required 15%. Economic
development projects and social welfare spending represent
11%.
                                                                                                       

   POSTSCRIPTS . . .
                                                                                                       

   China said it won't switch to daylight-saving time this
year, partly because it interferes with train schedules
across the country's 2,500-mile width. But because China has
only one time zone, western regions set their own schedules
so people don't have to get up several hours before sunrise.
. . . A power failure cut electricity throughout Manila, with
its eight million population, and surrounding provinces. The
outage, blamed on a sudden overload in the badly deficient
electric utility, snarled traffic, trapped people in
elevators and idled air conditioners in the 90-degree heat.