Campus Liberation:
   Gay Students Enjoy
   Programs, Protections
   At Rutgers University
   ---
   Its Antidiscrimination Policies
   Are Mirrored Elsewhere,
   But Often Just at College
   ---
   Being Oneself in New Jersey
   ----
   By Dana Milbank
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
"I'm sick of asking people's permission to be gay," says
Mr. Van.
   At Rutgers, the State University of New Jersey, he doesn't
really have to ask. He can be himself, with the protection of
the institution. During "Coming Out Days," gay and lesbian
students have a "kiss-in" on Brower Commons, across from the
student center. And under the university's controversial
anti-insult policy, homosexuals don't have to suffer slurs in
silence, any more than blacks or Jews must endure epithets on
campus. The policy forbids even "belittling comments." Break
the rules and you may have to clean toilets.
   In the dorms, Rutgers students can request and be assigned
a gay roommate as casually as they might request a nonsmoker.
Demarest Hall is the "gay friendly" residence.
   Last fall, 2,500 students from across the country visited
Rutgers for the Fifth Annual Lesbian and Gay Studies
Conference -- a three-day weekend of lectures, panels and
symposiums on such topics as "The Legal Text of Lesbian Sex,"
"Contextualizing Bisexuality" and "Queer Classics." Art,
music, poetry and a comedy show topped it off.
   About a hundred universities, not just Rutgers, have
policies forbidding discrimination based on sexual
orientation. And 46 schools, according to the National Gay 
Lesbian Task Force, have programs in gay and lesbian studies.
"There has been an explosion in organizing on college
campuses," says Kevin Berrill, director of campus organizing
for the task force, which advises 600 campus gay groups.
That's up from about 400 in the mid-1980s.
   But for all the openness on campus, gay students don't
necessarily find "the real world" -- the world of work and
mom and dad -- so hospitable to their life styles and sexual
orientation. Indeed, for all his bravado at Rutgers, Mr. Van
still hasn't told his father that he is gay, though he
assumes he knows. If he doesn't already know, he may learn it
from this article. Jeff Van says: "I'm aware of the
consequences."
   He is more worried about his professional future. "I'm
screaming for my rights now, but I don't know if I will put
it on my resume," he says.
   "Some students may come out of that campus experience in a
state of shock when they try to stay out of the closet and
get a job," says John D'Emilio, a historian at the University
of North Carolina in Greensboro and author of the book,
"Sexual Politics, Sexual Communities."
   Look at Raymond, class of '78, who is president of the
Rutgers 400-member Gay and Lesbian Alumni Association. His
last name appears in a gay-resource guide distributed on
campus. But he asks that it not be published here. He is a
computer programmer for ATT, and few people at work know he
is gay. "I don't have anything at stake on campus. Here, you
feel outcast if you announce it."
   Homosexual students harbor few such inhibitions on campus
-- which means they often must live double lives. "You can't
put the old world into the new world and expect it to fit,"
says David Gonzalez, a gay Rutgers junior.
   Much of the tension seems to stem from the fact that gay
men and lesbians still aren't accepted by many as a
legitimate minority, on a plane with blacks or Hispanics, for
example. Rather, homosexuality is deemed to be a "life
style," a status that results from choosing to be different,
even though most homosexuals and experts in the field reject
the notion that being gay is a matter of choice. And, like
many religious and other minorities, homosexuals can be
invisible -- easily assimilated if they want to be. "Coming
out" is an affirmation, but it can result in discrimination.
   Rutgers senior Kera B. didn't tell any of her friends in
Oak Park, Ill., that she is a lesbian. While she "came out"
to her family at 15, she avoided telling her grandfather. She
recalls he once asked her, "Do you worry that your lesbian
friends will be attracted to you?" "No," she thought to
herself, "I'm worried that they won't." She chose Rutgers in
part because she felt it would be "a comfortable space to
come out." She writes a column, under her full name, for a
campus paper, often discussing her lesbian experience. She
sometimes announces her homosexuality in classes, wears a
"Queer Nation" T-shirt and holds hands on campus with her
lover.
   When Rutgers student and Eagle Scout James Dale appeared
in a Newark Star-Ledger photograph taken at a gay rally, his
Boy Scout troop made him resign as assistant scoutmaster. But
otherwise, Mr. Dale has been successful at merging his two
worlds. After coming out his sophomore year at Rutgers, he
told his mother and -- eventually -- his father, a former
Army colonel. Last year, both parents marched in the national
Gay Pride parade in Washington.
   By all accounts, Rutgers has come a long way in the past
decade, from the days when Delta Kappa Epsilon, which no
longer has a chapter at Rutgers, used to hang gay students
(not anybody in particular) in effigy. In reaction to
homophobic graffiti and harassment, the university in 1988
created the Select Committee for Lesbian and Gay Concerns. It
is chaired by James D. Anderson, a gay university
administrator. Its membership also includes faculty, students
and staff, even the campus police chief.
   The Catholic chaplain at Rutgers, Father Ronald Stanley,
is all for the new enlightenment. "I'm thrilled we're trying
to help all people be themselves," he says. Rutgers now
offers benefits to "bona fide sole domestic partners" of gay
faculty members. New Jersey has a nondiscrimination law that
covers homosexuals, but since 1981, Rutgers has enforced its
own, which encompasses race, religion, color, ancestry, age,
sex, handicap, marital status, veteran's status and sexual
orientation. The anti-insult policy, instituted in 1989, adds
additional protection.
   The campus gay hotline takes about 20 calls a night from
students, residents of New Brunswick and out-of-town
visitors. Callers may be worrying about AIDS or just looking
for a gay bar. Members of the gay movement have become open,
outrageous and combative, much as black students did in the
1970s after years of more peaceful protest.
   "We're frustrated, and we're angry," says 21-year-old
Rutgers student Jim Henry, who is head of the hotline. "We're
the only group that's institutionally discriminated against."
He is referring to Rutgers's ROTC program which, like the
rest of the U.S. military, excludes homosexuals from service.
Rutgers, in protest, has stopped giving supplemental ROTC
scholarships, but it hasn't kicked ROTC off campus.
   Gay students glue posters on bulletin boards, mailboxes
and even on Mr. C's Munch Mobile. "I am a lezzie butch
pervert girlfriend bulldagger sister dyke AND PROUD]" reads
one. "Straight" students show solidarity with gay activists
by wearing blue jeans on specified days.
   The enemy is no longer merely the "homophobe" (one who
fears or hates homosexuals), but also the "heterosexist" (a
coinage denoting one who believes that heterosexuality is
preferable to homosexuality). Gay authors and themes have
been introduced into half a dozen academic disciplines, and
the women's studies department offers a lecture series called
"Beyond Heterosexism." The university also provides
sensitivity training to freshmen and shows a video about the
gay community, "A Little Respect." And the Rutgers art school
played host to a show by lesbian and gay artists titled
"Outrageous Desires."
   Not all campuses are as "out" as Rutgers is, and Rutgers
itself is hardly an island of perfect harmony. The National
Gay and Lesbian Task Force records more than 1,300 incidents
of alleged harassment against gay college students each year.
The University of Delaware, for example, in March 1990 found
on its campus several chalk outlines of bodies, with epithets
such as, "Another dead faggot." At Ohio State University, 32
students in a dorm were relocated in 1990 after they
allegedly threatened two gay students.
   Even at a traditionally "gay positive" university such as
Harvard (with its special programs and policies, strong
campus gay movement and general air of tolerance), a student
group called the Association Against Learning in the Absence
of Religion and Morality posted blue squares around the
campus last year to mock the pink triangles used as a symbol
by gay activists. (Others then put up yellow circles, calling
for a truce.)
   At Rutgers, gay students have been assaulted on Seminary
Place, a late-night cruising spot. Two men crashed a gay and
lesbian dance in the fall, yelling slurs and throwing a heavy
box at the gay students. The police were called.
   The university figures that 10% of its 50,000 students,
faculty and staff are homosexual, but only about 150 men and
women here are open about it. And, of those who are out of
the closet, only about 50 could be called activists. But the
Rutgers gay community has a lot of clout for its size.
   "I'm so `out,' I scare people," says James Dale, who is a
former head of Rutgers's gay and lesbian alliance. When he
was posting signs for a gay meeting in a campus dining hall,
another student denounced him in expletives. Mr. Dale,
threatening to take the matter to the university, extracted a
public apology.
   When gallery officials at a student art show last year
removed a multimedia homoerotic exhibit because busloads of
grade-school children were coming to see the show, every
other participant in the show rallied behind the censored
artist and covered up their works as well.
   Hostile individuals, who evidently feel they can't express
their sentiments openly without running afoul of the
university's insult policy and risking censure, have resorted
to anonymous scribblings, such as "Fight AIDS, kill a fag,"
on library desks. "It's a subterranean war," says senior
Nicholas Ragone, eating at a campus pizzeria. He says he
supports gay rights but is uneasy about the heavy pressure to
keep a civil tongue. "There's a fear if you're heard making a
sexual slur, you'll be punished."
   There's reason to fear. Just ask junior Clayton DuVall.
The first week of his freshman year in 1989, a friend taped a
note to his door that read, "Clayton's a geek." Mr. DuVall
retaliated with a note on the door: "You're a fag."
Unfortunately for him, his dorm monitor reported the note,
and a week later Mr. DuVall was sentenced to do 30 hours of
janitorial work for violating the Rutgers insult policy. Mr.
DuVall and his friend, who came to his defense, thought their
exchange of notes was all in good fun, but the resident-life
committee rejected the argument: A gay student, seeing Mr.
DuVall's note, might be offended. The university says such
punishments are meted out "with reasonable frequency," not
just for anti-gay remarks but for racist and other abusive
language.
   The insult policy is controversial, to say the least. "The
policy is absurd on a number of grounds," says Gerald Pomper,
a Rutgers political-science professor and former head of the
American Civil Liberties Union's free-speech division. "The
remedy for bad speech is to engage in more speech, not to
suppress it. You don't change feelings by suppressing them,
you probably intensify them."
   Mr. DuVall, for his part, says he is offended that the
university tolerates cruising in the basement bathroom of the
library, where, he says, he has seen men exposing themselves
to each other. James D. Anderson, associate dean of the
School of Communications and chairman of the university's
committee for lesbian and gay concerns, says the committee
reviewed the library bathroom question and recommended that
the university take no action on the grounds that the
bathroom cruising would just move elsewhere if the university
stopped it in the library.
   Says Mr. DuVall: "If a little sign that says `fag' offends
them, stuff like that offends me."
   Jason T. Brown, president of the Rutgers College student
government, argues that Rutgers is pandering to the gay
community. "The university totally caves in to any demand the
gays make," he says. "In the real world, people can say what
they want. Here, if you offend anyone with a remark, it's a
crime. That totally discourages the exchange of free ideas."
   Some faculty members agree. "Ten years ago, the cry was
toleration -- today the rallying cry is celebration," says
Ross K. Baker, a Rutgers political-science professor. "I
don't think the university ought to be in the position of
being cheerleaders for a life style."
   But the university says it is merely enforcing its
nondiscrimination policy, which came to include sexual
orientation in 1981. "Seeing it as coddling or special
treatment is wrongheaded," says W. David Burns, assistant
vice president for student services.
   For incoming students, however, "it's a hard thing to
adjust to," says freshman Dayna Desiderio. "You feel all of a
sudden there's this whole community imposed on you." Even
reticent gay students feel pressure from their more vocal
fellows. "Every time we talk, there's some {remark} about
`when are you going to come out,'" says junior Anand
Connissiong, who is gay but hasn't yet told his parents in
Trinidad, or even all of his friends in the dorm. And Mr.
Van, open as he is, feels the pressure when he visits a gay
friend who insists that he shout, "I'm a faggot]" in the
hallway of his apartment before allowing him to enter.
   While many gay students at Rutgers hope to export their
activism to the real world, they realize it is less likely to
be accommodating. Lounging about the campus office of the gay
hotline one night, a student named Josh vows to continue his
activism after college. "You say that now," responds Mr. Van,
who fears he himself may have to cool it on the outside. "I
know a lot of people who were out and very open, but then
they got turned down in their first job interview, and then
their second, and then they had rent coming due. It's very
scary."