The Wall Street Journal / NBC News Poll
   ---
   Washington Wire:
   A Special Weekly Report From
   The Wall Street Journal's
   Capital Bureau
   ----
   Compiled by Rich Jaroslovsky
Speaker Foley will be even more conciliatory than usual in
his response to the State of the Union speech. He'll avoid
blamesmanship on the recession and promise to work with Bush
on a tax package. One reason for the soft response: Party
leaders don't want to overplay their strong political hand.
The poll, conducted by Democrat Peter Hart and Republican
Vince Breglio, shows voters now favor the Democrats by 28% to
23% as better able to deal with the economy.
   Ways and Means Chairman Rostenkowski, facing a rare
primary challenge March 17, doesn't want a tax vote in his
committee before then.
                                                                                                       

   OUST-SADDAM EFFORTS are stepped up by U.S. officials.
   They lay plans to move if simmering Iraqi anger at Saddam
Hussein boils over. The strategy of the U.S. and its Arab
allies is to incite a few rebellious actions within Iraq,
such as the recent car bombing at a Baghdad hotel, to show
that dissent is possible. The U.S. and its allies then would
move in with air power if a big rebellion begins, and have a
credible opposition leadership ready to go.
   Iraqi opposition figures argue that a move against Saddam
should be made in the next six months. That would also please
nervous Bush political allies, who see the glow from the war
rapidly fading; the Journal/NBC poll shows that a third of
the voters who last March considered the war the proudest
U.S. achievement in their lifetimes no longer feel that way.
                                                                                                       

   CLINTON'S EMERGENCE makes him a prime target.
   The Journal/NBC poll shows he has surged to the front of
the Democratic pack, with 20%. Moreover, among voters who
know of him, he trails Bush by only four percentage points.
He stockpiles a backlog of prominent endorsements, many of
them from California, that he will trot out to create a sense
of momentum.
   But Democratic consultant Mark Mellman sees him at a
dangerous juncture, with foes gunning for him at a time when
voters still know little about him. The worry for Clinton's
handlers: Persistent questions about his personal behavior
could take on magnified importance in the heat of the race.
   Though Clinton attacks Harkin and Kerrey for voting for
the congressional pay raise, Wisconsin Rep. Obey tells
colleagues Clinton privately told him he favored it, too.
                                                                                                       

   NO HELP: The Washington Post's highly favorable Quayle
series, widely analyzed inside the Beltway, fails to boost
his standing. By 62% to 30%, voters are uncomfortable with
the thought of him as president -- even worse than in a poll
last May. More voters still have negative than positive
feelings toward him.
                                                                                                       

   NO SALE: Voters by four to one oppose giving Israel $10
billion in loan guarantees to help resettle immigrants from
the former Soviet Union. A Jewish settlers' group says that
even if Israel froze settlements now, plans already underway
could double the present 100,000 Jewish population of the
occupied territories within a few years.
                                                                                                       

   NO MORE: Sixty-four percent of voters would favor a law
limiting the tax deductibility of corporate salaries that are
more than 25 times the salaries of the company's lowest-paid
workers. Surprisingly, support is even stronger among
Republicans than Democrats.
                                                                                                       

   NO GORBY: Only a plurality of voters -- 47% to 39% --
think Yeltsin can be trusted to live up to treaties made with
the former Soviet Union. He is viewed positively by 36%, down
from 50% in the immediate aftermath of the failed August
coup.
                                                                                                       

   JAPANESE TRADE dominates economic and political debates.
   This weekend's G-7 gathering is likely to focus on Japan's
mounting trade surplus with the U.S. and Europe. Last week's
intervention to push up the yen has left financial markets
primed to respond to any hint the G-7 wants a further rise,
which would help shrink the trade gap. But intra-European
tensions may block a consensus.
   The poll finds 75% approve of House Majority Leader
Gephardt's proposal to compel Japan to eradicate its U.S.
trade surplus. But voters largely blame the U.S. rather than
Japan for the auto industry's ills: Only 19% say unfair
Japanese trading practices are responsible, and by two to one
they say that the Japanese make better cars.
   By an overwhelming 63% to 18%, voters think Bush's trade
mission to Japan was unsuccessful.
                                                                                                       

   MINOR MEMOS: The public by 40% to 34% wants the Redskins
to win the Super Bowl; despite Buffalo's blue-collar image,
the 'Skins do even better among beer drinkers, 43%-36%. . . .
Sixty-nine percent of voters think Oswald was part of a
conspiracy to kill JFK; in a 1978 poll, fewer than half felt
that way.