NASD Proposes
   Expanding Power
   Of Its Arbitrators
   ---
   Under Rule, Brokerage Firms
   Could Obtain Injunctions
   Without Going to Court
   ----
   By Michael Siconolfi
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The National Association of Securities Dealers is
proposing a rule that would grant arbitrators the power to
issue injunctions in disputes involving the nation's
brokerage firms. Injunctions are orders barring parties from
taking action until a hearing.
   Now, brokerage firms seeking injunctions must go to court,
which often is more time-consuming and expensive than
arbitration. The issue often arises in "raiding" or
"pirating" cases, when a securities firm accuses another of
stealing a broker and his clients. The disputes are important
for investors; they typically center on who owns the broker's
list of client accounts.
   "What they're fighting over is your account," said David
Robbins, a lawyer for Kaufmann Gildin  Carlin and a former
arbitration director at the American Stock Exchange. "The
raided firm wants to hold on to you, the departing broker
wants to take you with him-it's a tug-of-war over your
dollars."
   The cases typically are the most contentious in securities
arbitration because losing customer accounts and top
producers can damage a brokerage firm's bottom line.
   For the brokerage business, the proposed rule "is a
significant step and will avoid people having to head out to
court" to settle disputes quickly, said Richard Ketchum, an
NASD executive vice president.
   Securities disputes typically are heard by a panel of
three arbitrators. Though they make the final determinations
in such disputes, arbitrators never have had the power to
issue injunctions; this typically has been the domain of
federal judges.
   The proposed rule would give arbitrators the ability to
issue injunctions within three days of the filing of an
action seeking such relief. The rule would apply to disputes
before the NASD, which currently handles more than two-thirds
of all arbitration cases. The rule wouldn't apply to disputes
before the New York Stock Exchange, which handles about
one-quarter of all arbitration cases.
   The proposal now goes to the Securities and Exchange
Commission, which will seek comment on it. The SEC generally
approves such NASD arbitration proposals, but final action
isn't expected for several months.