Corporate Focus:
   Avery Dennison Dusts Itself Off After Rough Merger
   ---
   Chairman Says Combination, Despite
   Rocky Start, Is Beginning to Pay Off
   ----
   By Rhonda L. Rundle
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The merger stumbled early when the government's 4
1/2-month review paralyzed Dennison's already weak
operations. But, since some of its businesses were sold or
dropped, the company has been on the mend. Employees are
learning to cope with differences in the two companies'
cultures. And after installing new managers at Avery
Dennison's previously neglected European operations, the
64-year-old executive's mood is upbeat.
   Last month, Avery Dennison reported its second consecutive
quarter of improved operating profit, and its stock, which
lagged behind the market last year, has shown some
improvement in the past few months. At this point its shares
are trading near the price Avery International shares fetched
before the merger was announced. Avery Dennison shares were
quoted at $26.875 in late New York Stock Exchange trading
yesterday.
   "Although we don't yet see a significant pickup in the
economy, the worst is behind us," Mr. Miller says. The
integration of Avery's and Dennison's management systems will
be completed by midyear. More importantly, he says, the
greater size and visibility of Avery Dennison, with brand
names including Carter's ink products, Dennison and Avery
labels and National and KM binders, are attracting important
new customers: "In 1989 we weren't selling (to) Wal-Mart; we
did $11 million in sales to Wal-Mart last year."
   But analysts are wary. The timetable for recovering from
the merger has slipped by a year, to 1994 at the earliest.
And Mr. Miller's goal of more than doubling profits by that
year, and increasing return on capital to 13% from the
current level of 6.7%, wouldn't achieve much more than
restoring the capital ratio and pershare earnings to where
they were in 1989-the year before the merger.
   Avery Dennison "has a long ways to go before it can
declare victory on this acquisition," says Kimberly Ritrievi
of PaineWebber Inc., who thinks the deal was a mistake.
   Avery was built on its pressure-sensitive materials, which
still account for nearly half of the successor company's
revenue. After Stan Avery invented the removable stick-on
label in the 1930s, the company quietly prospered through
innovation and expansion into new markets. Avery films,
tapes, labels and other adhesive products found uses on
everything from disposable diapers to computer software.
   Dennison, by contrast, emphasized such commodity products
as stationery, notebooks and markers -- items for which
suppliers had to slash prices in the mid-1980s, when
"superstore" chains muscled into the retail office-products
market.
   Avery's Mr. Miller and Dennison's then-chairman, Nelson
Gifford, felt squeezed between their aggressive new customers
and such bigger rivals as American Brands Inc. and Esselte AB
of Sweden. The two men began dining together -- and talking
of a possible merger.
   "We felt that neither one of us was big enough to deal
with the industry," recalls Mr. Gifford, who retired at 61
last year as vice chairman of the merged concern. A 1987
agreement unraveled over price and Dennison's desire to keep
a large senior-management presence, but by 1990 the weakened
condition of Dennison gave it little choice but to accept
Avery as dominant partner.
   The merger agreement gave Dennison holders 1.12 shares of
Avery for each Dennison share. Prior to the announcement,
Avery shares were trading at $28.50, and Dennison shares at
$19. But by the time the merger closed, Avery's share price
had plunged 43% to $16.25. "Dennison shareholders got
creamed," says Stuart Pulvirent, an analyst at Shearson
Lehman Brothers Inc. To settle related shareholder lawsuits,
an agreement was reached for Avery Dennison to increase the
quarterly dividend to 20 cents from 18 cents.
   Mr. Miller soon learned that Avery's management structure,
giving heavy responsibility to division managers, differed
sharply from a Dennison hierarchy that passed down decisions
from the top. "We were teaching people a new culture; giving
them more freedom, but asking them to make more decisions and
take more responsibility," says Greg Jenkins, senior vice
president and chief financial officer.
   Three months after the merger, Mr. Miller met with several
groups of Dennison employees over coffee and doughnuts and
spelled out which operations were performing poorly, and
which products were unprofitable -- information that had been
unknown to some employees and managers. "He was brutally
frank; there was no tiptoeing around," says Louis D'Amarco, a
Dennison manager who was present.
   Mr. D'Amarco, now vice president and general manager of
the Dennison Stationery Products division, says that after
the merger, some unprofitable clipboards and yellow-lined
pads were dropped from the Dennison product line, a move that
underscored the phase-out of an old philosophy. Dennison had
grown by selling thousands of products; Avery Dennison wanted
fewer products, but products that were dominant in their
markets.
   Not surprisingly, the cost-cutting ax has fallen more
heavily on Dennison than Avery. Last year, six businesses
with combined annual revenue of about $125 million were sold.
Five of the six were Dennison units. To trim 1,800 jobs from
the work force, which now stands at 17,000, deep cuts were
made at Dennison's Massachusetts operations.
   Although the merger was driven by office products, it also
created the market leader in the retail tag and ticket
business, Mr. Miller says. Under the Soabar name, Avery
Dennison marks price information on retail goods with those
familiar reedlike plastic fasteners, then ships them to
Nordstrom's, the Gap, KMart and the like. The recession has
hammered that business, but "as retailing comes back, we'll
be well-positioned there," Mr. Miller says.
   He also hopes a new group president can reinvigorate
European operations, which account for about 40% of revenue.
Besides the weak economy and stiff competition, start-up
costs at two new plants depressed European profits last year.
A hidden cost of the merger, says Shearson's Mr. Pulvirent,
is that the plants' capacity is about 30% more than needed.
   Mr. Miller dismisses most criticism of the merger as
short-sighted, and says Avery Dennison is developing a line
of products "with real strength" to help it compete in
superstores. "I think this will be critical in the next
decade." He's proud of cuts he has made in inventory and
accounts receivable, and notes that Avery Dennison recently
announced it would buy back four million of its common
shares, or about 7% of the total outstanding.
   To motivate senior managers to work hard, Mr. Miller
recently persuaded the board to adopt a cash-incentive plan.
If certain return-on-capital goals are reached, the managers
could receive bonuses in 1994 totaling as much as 120% of
their base salaries.
   ---
             Avery Dennison Corp. by the Numbers

                      The Fundamentals
                                                                                                       

                             1991       1990
                                                                                                       

 Sales (bil.)               $2.55      $2.59
 Net income (mil.)         $63.00      $5.90*
 Earnings per share         $1.02      $0.10
                                                                                                       

 Major Product Lines:
 Pressure-sensitive adhesive materials, office products,
product identification and control systems, and specialty
chemicals
                                                                                                       

 Major Competitors:
 Minnesota Mining  Manufacturing Co., Pitney Bowes Inc.,
American Brands Inc., and Esselte AB, among many other
meterials, product-identification and office-products
concerns
                                                                                                       

 *Includes restructuring charge of $85.2 million