PERSONAL TECHNOLOGY
   ----
   By Walter S. Mossberg
To Put On a Show
                                                                                                       

   TED WILLIAMS showed up on my computer screen the other
day. By just clicking the mouse, I was treated to video and
audio of the great Boston Red Sox slugger, the last man to
hit .400. The scene was the Splendid Splinter's final plate
appearance, in 1960. He smashed a home run, of course.
   With another click, my screen was displaying color footage
of the day in 1974 when the Atlanta Braves' Henry Aaron sent
a ball over the wall for his 715th homer, breaking Babe
Ruth's career record. I clicked again, and saw Willie Mays of
the New York Giants make a fabulous catch against the
Cleveland Indians in the 1954 World Series.
   But "Baseball's Greatest Hits," the $39 computer program
that puts these amazing things on Apple Computer's Macintosh
models, isn't just flash and dazzle.
   Voyager, a small Santa Monica, Calif., company, hasn't
merely built in audio and video replays of dozens of great
baseball moments. It also includes box scores of the historic
games, career statistics of the heroes, contemporary analysis
of the events (where available) by the Pulitzer Prize-winning
columnist Red Smith, audio commentary by longtime Yankees
broadcaster Mel Allen, and a gallery of handsome still
photos.
   "Baseball's Greatest Hits" is notable not merely because
we're heading into a new baseball season, but also because it
is one of a handful of new computer programs that I think
finally deliver on the computer industry's much-ballyhooed
promise to produce "multimedia" programs. And the techniques
it uses to bring the game alive might easily be transferred
to less serious subjects, such as physics, poetry or
medicine.
                                                                                                       

   MULTIMEDIA refers to the mixture on a computer screen of
traditional text and graphics with animation, realistic video
and audio. As is typical in the computer world, the rhetoric
about this type of software has outrun the reality. Most
examples I've seen were company demos, requiring special
computer models and accessories, or reworked old programs
with video and audio glommed on without much thought. But in
recent months, several multimedia programs have crossed my
desk whose audio and video elements add value for the user.
   Another of these is "The 1991 Time Magazine Compact
Almanac," from Compact Publishing of Washington, D.C. This
$150 program, for IBM-compatible personal computers, contains
the entire text of Time from 1989, 1990 and parts of 1991,
plus highlights from past years. It also has sections with
data and maps about the U.S. and other nations.
   What makes the Time Almanac a multimedia disk is its
ability to present video and audio of events in the articles.
There is Cable News Network footage of the Gulf War and
failed Soviet coup, as well as historical videos, such as
John F. Kennedy's inaugural address.
   A third good program is a $39 game, "Sherlock Holmes,
Consulting Detective," from Icom Simulations, Wheeling, Ill.
In this program, like many others, the user tries to solve
mysteries by gathering clues offered by fictional characters.
But instead of presenting the characters and clues as
drawings or text, the program uses video of actors performing
scenes from Sherlock Holmes stories. The game is available
for both IBM-compatibles and Macintoshes.
   The three small companies behind these products have
priced them moderately. But there's a catch: They are
available only on a special type of high-capacity disk called
a CD-ROM, a cousin of the audio compact disk, because their
video, audio and text files take up much more room than
floppy disks or even most hard disk drives offer.
                                                                                                       

   USING CD-ROMs requires a special disk drive that costs
around $500. Moreover, on IBM-compatibles, users must install
a $100-plus sound card to get the audio from these disks (and
not all sound cards work with all software). On Macs, the
sound capability is built in.
   The video segments on the disks are limited in number,
cover only part of the screen and are a bit jerky, betraying
the technology's youth. But the effect is exhilirating,
enhancing tremendously the content of the three programs.
   The baseball disk is especially well done. It not only
features the game's greatest moments, but also has a section
called "Voices of the Hall," with audio clips of Hall of Fame
players reviewing their careers. Ty Cobb discusses his
base-running strategy, Casey Stengel offers a typically
garbled view of his Mets, Satchel Paige compares the major
leagues and the segregation-era Negro leagues.
   Most of the program in fact, features audio rather than
video. There are only 11 videos of great baseball moments,
because of legal and financial issues involved in
distributing footage of current players. Voyager hopes to
expand the number in a future release, and also plans an
IBM-compatible version of the program.
   My main gripe with "Baseball's Greatest Hits" is that it's
too New York-oriented: Nine of the 11 videos involve New York
teams. The only other flaw is that it includes some
embarrassing events afflicting my star-crossed Red Sox. But
the truth isn't always pretty, on the field or the computer
screen.