LEISURE  ARTS:
   Unhurried Walks Through Gallery Halls
   ----
   By Roger Kimball
Assembled gradually since the 1930s by the well-known art
dealer Klaus G. Perls, this array of some 150 ritual and
decorative objects from the court of Benin -- what is now
Southern Nigeria -- offers a striking introduction to some of
the most vigorous and realistic art Africa has produced.
   Like many Westerners, Mr. Perls came to African art
through the explorations of such early modernists as Picasso,
Matisse and Braque. "I started buying African art," he
explains in the show's catalog, "simply because I liked to
see it together with the works of the Picasso generation." It
is easy to see why the bold stylizations of African art would
appeal to a generation bent on distilling novel formal and
emotional combinations from the panoply of visual reality.
   Dating from the 16th to the 20th centuries, the objects on
view here include a wide assortment of terra-cotta heads,
ivory carvings, brass and iron jewelry, objets d'art and
musical instruments. The sensitively installed and lighted
exhibition, mounted to celebrate Mr. Perls's gift of his
Benin collection to the Met, will be on view until Sept. 13.
   Perhaps the most ambitious works in the exhibition are the
set of palace plaques, which are cast in brass and average
about 18 inches in height. The plaques depict "en tableaux"
various scenes from everyday life at court. By African
standards they are rich in detail, and they provide an
unparalleled glimpse into court etiquette in the 16th and
17th centuries, the apogee of Benin's power. This was a
period when Benin had frequent commercial dealings with
Europe, especially the Portuguese, and several of the plaques
memorialize Portuguese merchants.
   Today, at a time when African art, like the art of other
Third World countries, is celebrated as much for being
politically correct as for its aesthetic merits, it is
perhaps worth noting that this show reminds us that such
cultures could fail to achieve perfect political rectitude.
The Benin, for example, indulged in human sacrifice and slave
trading. They did not seem entirely enlightened about the
handicapped -- one king was killed for attempting to conceal
his deformed legs -- and they insisted on viewing the world
in what can only be described as an elitist fashion.
Moreover, their ingrained elitism even spilled over into
their art, in which, as a wall label reminds us, the figures
are "often portrayed in formal compositions that are arranged
symmetrically and hierarchically."
   In this last respect, at least, Benin art resembles its
European counterparts, which have traditionally been
adamantly partial to symmetry and hierarchy. Nowhere are such
qualities in greater evidence than in 18th-century French
culture, as the Met's rewarding exhibition of French
architectural and ornamental drawings from this period
demonstrates.
   Otherwise, of course, it is a different world entirely.
Drawn from the Met's own collections, the 125 works on paper
in the exhibition (which is on view through March 15) are by
such well-known figures as Jean-Jacques Lequeu, Jean-Charles
Delafosse, Claude-Louis Chatelet and Jacques-Louis David. The
works themselves, some of which are exquisite, lapidary
productions, are like so many souvenirs from a culture
teetering at the pinnacle of refinement, sophistication and
selfindulgence. Elaborate designs and drawings for ceilings,
candelabra, upholstery and snuff boxes; wistful architectural
fantasies; lavish presentation drawings of urban townhouses:
There is none of the totemic ruggedness of Benin art here.
Instead, one encounters traces of a culture glorying in
artificiality and confident craftsmanship.
   A more homely redaction of such achieved artifice and
craftsmanship can be found in the delightful exhibition of
17thcentury Dutch drawings that just opened at the Morgan
Library. Drawn from the collection of Maida and George Abrams
-- generally regarded as the best collection of such drawings
in private hands -- this splendid exhibition includes more
than 100 landscapes, genre scenes and figure drawings by
about 60 artists, including such masters as Rembrandt, Jacob
van Ruisdael, Adriaen van Ostade and Emanuel de Witte. There
are also works belonging to that newly popular category,
"attributed by former owners to Rembrandt."
   While there is extraordinary technical skill on display in
these drawings, many also possess considerable wit and
domestic charm. These are tamed, inhabited landscapes,
products of a prosperous bourgeois culture, just as these
tulip studies are of bred and over-bred blossoms. Who could
doubt that the 17th century was the "Golden Age" of the Dutch
Republic? This refreshing cornucopia of sketches and finished
drawings continues at the Morgan through April 26, after
which it travels to the Fogg Art Museum in Cambridge, Mass.
   A very different delight is on view at the Salander --
O'Reilly Gallery at 20 East 79th Street: 35 bronze sculptures
by the French-born American artist Gaston Lachaise
(1882-1935). Including works from various public and private
collections as well as several newly cast works from the
Lachaise estate, this marvelous collection of female nudes
provides a succinct re-introduction to an artist whose name
is well known but whose important achievement has been
neglected since the '40s.
   Indeed, this small exhibition reminds us how powerful an
artist Lachaise was. Among its highlights are "Mountain"
(1934-35), "In Extremis" (1934) and, especially, "Elevation"
(1912-27), an exquisitely graceful depiction of feminine
sensuousness. The exhibition also reminds us how
distinguished an educational role this gallery has played in
New York cultural life in recent years. In exhibition after
exhibition -- of Constable, Delacroix, Gericault and many
others -- Salander-O'Reilly has assembled some of the most
thoughtful and innovative explorations of aesthetic issues we
have seen in any gallery or museum in New York. The
exhibition of sculpture by Lachaise is another triumph, and
may be seen through Feb. 22.