Mutual Funds:
   Strong's `Stars' Send Funds Into Orbit
   ----
   By Jonathan Clements
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Mr. Strong is "taking a New York Yankees tactic here -- go
out and pay up and hire 'em away," says Mickey Roth,
president of USAA Investment Management. "This kind of thing
has not happened to us often."
   The whole notion of star portfolio managers is a sore
topic in the mutual fund industry. If a fund manager becomes
well known, his departure or retirement can lead to a wave of
investor withdrawals -- something any fund group would rather
avoid.
   Stein Roe Chairman Timothy Schlindwein, who has lost five
employees to Strong/Corneliuson, worries that the industry's
hunt for top investment talent might cause a bidding war for
star fund managers; that, in turn, could lead shareholders to
jump from fund to fund as they try to remain with the same
portfolio manager.
   "Is it good for the shareholders?" asks Mr. Schlindwein.
"Is it good for the fund industry? A prudent man would have
to say that the jury is still out."
   But for shareholders of the Strong funds, Mr. Strong's
hiring binge has been a bonanza. According to Lipper
Analytical Services, Strong's stock funds rose an average
47.5% last year, compared with 30.4% for the Standard 
Poor's 500 stock index. Strong Municipal Money Market Fund
was the top-performing tax-exempt money fund in 1991. Many of
the group's other funds also did well relative to their
competitors.
   The performance turnaround was sorely needed by the
Menomonee Falls, Wis., fund group, which has been struggling
to overcome damage done by poor fund returns in late 1989 and
early 1990.
   Three years ago, Strong/Corneliuson Capital Management was
one of the rising stars of the mutual fund industry. Its
flagship stock fund, Strong Total Return Fund, had ballooned
to more than $1.3 billion in assets, and the firm's total
fund assets stood at more than $3.1 billion.
   A big reason for that popularity was Strong Total Return's
stellar bear-market performance. The fund dived 14.6% in
October 1987, a modest loss compared with the 21.5% drubbing
taken by the Standard  Poor's 500 stock index. In the months
immediately after the Black Monday crash, when other fund
groups were suffering mass redemptions, the Strong funds were
actually pulling in new money.
   But, having shrugged off the 1987 stock market crash,
Strong/Corneliuson got caught in another financial debacle:
the 1989 collapse of takeover stocks and high-yielding junk
bonds. For years, Dick Strong and partner Bill Corneliuson
had successfully invested in junk bonds and takeover stocks.
Yet when junk bonds dived in September 1989 and a UAL Corp.
buy-out deal fell apart in October, Strong Total Return Fund
was pummeled. In the six months through February 1990, the
fund slumped 18.1%, compared with a 4% drop for the Standard
 Poor's 500 stock index.
   "There was this image that the Strong funds were
low-risk," says Don Phillips, publisher of Morningstar Mutual
Funds, a Chicago newsletter. "They were really hit hard. It
surprised people."
   Disappointed investors fled. The Strong funds saw steady
redemptions through 1990 and much of 1991. Even today, Strong
Total Return Fund has assets of less than $700 million, well
below its $1.3 billion peak.
   To stem the tide of shareholder defections, Mr. Strong
announced that he would keep junk-bond holdings below 5% of
any one fund's portfolio. He also realized that it wasn't
just poor investment decisions that caused the lapse in
performance.
   We "tried to do too much," concedes the 49-year-old Mr.
Strong. "We just didn't realize how stretched our existing
capability was."
   Mr. Strong set out to rebuild his firm by hiring a staff
of top investment managers. By offering compensation packages
that tie a fund manager's earnings to growth in the firm and
to investment performance, Strong/Corneliuson has boosted its
team of analysts and portfolio managers to 18 people from
just four in the past two years. Among the new recruits have
been top bond and money fund managers like Flexfund's Jay
Mueller, Stein Roe's Thomas Conlin and USAA's Steven Harrop.
   But Mr. Strong's biggest coup was the hiring of
stock-pickers Dick Weiss and Carlene Murphy, who used to
manage the top-performing SteinRoe Special Fund. Today, they
run the Strong Common Stock Fund and co-manage Strong
Opportunity Fund.
   Mr. Weiss says it wasn't just the chance to get a stake in
the firm that brought him to Strong/Corneliuson. "It goes
beyond that," he says. "It's like a partnership. Everybody's
working for the betterment of the firm, rather than just for
a paycheck."
   Mr. Strong's strategy has already started to pay off. Cash
flow into the Strong funds turned positive in mid-1991, and
the fund group had record cash inflows from investors in
January.
   Mr. Strong's hiring tactics aren't garnering rave reviews
from the companies that lost fund managers to
Strong/Corneliuson. "Sure we didn't like it, because it was a
little disruptive to the organization," says Robert Meeder
Jr., a vice president with Flex-funds. Hiring a replacement
for money fund co-manager Jay Mueller "took time away from
what we do best, which is managing money."
   Mr. Strong, for his part, makes no apologies for his
turnaround strategy. "This is America," he says. "Most of
those people contacted us on their own. They sensed there was
an opportunity here."