Strong '91 Exports
   By Paper Industry
   Offset U.S. Demand
   ----
   By Robert J. Brennan
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
While output rose 0.8% to 79.4 million tons, paper
manufacturers really want better U.S. demand and prices.
Manufacturers' profits, which follow the direction of the
economy, have been sliding since the recession began in 1990.
U.S. purchases of paper and paperboard fell 2.4% last year;
however, the decline was concentrated in the first half.
Consumption rebounded in the latter half, "and by year-end,
it had regained its long-term trend relationship to the gross
domestic product," Mr. Cavaney said.
   Total exports of paper and related products, including
recovered paper for recycling, rose 6.1% to $9.7 billion;
while total imports fell 10.5% to $10.2 billion. The combined
impact of higher exports and lower imports added more than
two million tons to the demand for U.S.-made paper and
paperboard, Mr. Cavaney said. Furthermore, he said, the trade
deficit, at $500 million, is far lower than the average $2.9
billion of the five previous years.
   Production of wood pulp, which is converted into finished
paper products, was a big factor in export growth. Total U.S.
production grew 2.6% to a new high of nine million tons;
export shipments accounted for six million tons, a 7.6%
increase from 1990. Domestic shipments were down 4.8%.
   On the recycling front, collection of recovered paper rose
6.8% to 31.1 million tons, accounting for more than 35% of
total paper consumption, Mr. Cavaney said. The industry
previously had set a goal of 40% recovery by 1995. The steady
growth of paper collection, he said, "underscores the
fundamental shift taking place within the industry" toward
greater use of recycled material for production. Recovered
paper represented 29% of total production in 1991, compared
with 24.6% as recently as 1987, Mr. Cavaney said.
   The industry is expected to rebound quickly once the
economy improves because inventories of paper goods have been
low, and improved demand will mean a direct increase in
production, Mr. Cavaney said. Also, continuing investment in
capital and human resources resulted in steady productivity
gains over the last decade.