Who's News:
   United Way Says
   President to Retire;
   Target of Criticism
   ----
   By Susan Pulliam
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
At a news conference yesterday in Alexandria, Va., Mr.
Aramony said he was retiring because he wants to "put things
back in proper focus" and "for the greater good of the
organization." Mr. Aramony has held the position of president
since 1970 and is credited with developing United Way into a
national organization that collected voluntary contributions
of $3.1 billion in 1990.
   The step by Mr. Aramony came after news reports that
criticized his management, expenses and hiring practices.
Among the accusations were charges that he approved a
for-profit subsidiary which bought an apartment for his use.
He has also been cricitized for allegedly extravagant
expenses and for hiring friends.
   Prior to the published reports, United Way of America
conducted an internal investigation into Mr. Aramony's
management. That inquiry cleared Mr. Aramony but the
organization hired outside counsel to conduct another
investigation into the charges. That investigation is
expected to be completed April 2.
   United Way of America is an organization which provides
service, such as training and support, for local United Way
chapters. About 1,400 chapters pay dues of 1% of their
contributions to the organization.
   After the reports this week, many United Way chapters
began pressing for Mr. Aramony's resignation. Some threatened
to withhold their dues.
   "I can't celebrate this event," said Robert Kulinski,
president and chief professional officer of the United Way of
Roanoke Valley, Roanoke, Va. "But I am relieved because all
of us have spent a lot of time and effort dealing with this
and our communities have suffered some erosion of
credibility."
   Some affiliates say they still plan to withhold their
dues, however, which are normally paid in February. "We are
going to await the complete report in April. We believe more
information is needed than was presented today," said William
Meyer, president of the United Way of Allegheny County, Pa.,
in the Pittsburgh area.
   Mr. Kulinski said the Roanoke Valley chapter is also
taking a wait-and-see attitude. "We want to wait for the
results of the April 2 report and see what changes in
oversight and accountability will be made," he said.