Tracking Travel
   ----
   By Jonathan Dahl
AFTER falling last year, air traffic delays are dropping
again in 1992. But is that good news?
   In January, delays at U.S. airports fell 37% from a year
earlier, the Federal Aviation Administration says. Delays
last year fell 21% from 1990, but declining airline takeoffs
and landings were one big reason. So far this year, takeoffs
and landings have risen slightly.
   Airline and FAA officials attribute recent declines in
delays partly to a mild winter. But under pressure from the
airlines, the government has restructured its
air-traffic-control system, sharply reducing the minimum
distances by which planes must be separated at cruising and
climbing altitude. The standard minimum distance between
planes is now five miles in many parts of the country; it had
been increased to as much as 20 miles after the controllers'
strike in 1981.
   Airline officials long argued the old distances were
excessive. "If you spread out the planes far enough, you end
up spreading them to the ground," says Jack Ryan, vice
president of air-traffic management for the industry's Air
Transport Association. "That's too far."
   But the change reduces some margin of error for
air-traffic controllers, who have long complained about being
overtaxed. "It's something we'll have to keep an eye on,"
says Barry Krasner, president of the National Association of
Air Traffic Controllers.
   January's declines were spread unevenly across the
country. Delays fell 38% at New York's La Guardia Airport,
64% in Philadelphia and 63% in St. Louis. But they increased
more than fivefold at Los Angeles International Airport.
   With traffic continuing to rise slightly this year,
industry officials don't expect delays to keep falling. "You
can only get delays down so far," Mr. Ryan says.
   Certainly, the news out of Chicago's O'Hare Airport this
week wasn't good. For the second time this year, the
airport's radar failed, forcing the cancellation of 450
flights and ruining travel plans for 30,000 people, says Mr.
Ryan, adding, "For those people, I guess it's not the time to
talk about delays going down."
                                                                                                       

   Car-Rental Firms Tinker
   With High-Tech Future
                                                                                                       

   IF THE technology ever comes, renting a car might someday
be fun.
   National Car Rental System proposes a futuristic checkout
process. Under the plan, as renters return their cars, a beam
at the entrance gate would trigger a computer in the car. The
computer would record mileage, the amount of gas in the tank
and other details and print out a bill for instant checkout.
   National says much of the technology already exists. Many
autos now are equipped with computers that control various
engine and other functions. In addition, many National
locations already have automated machines that allow for
instant checkout.
   "But don't hold your breath," a spokesman says of the
beamcomputer idea. "It's not like this is going to happen
tomorrow."
   Avis plans to test a computer directional finder this
month. Using a monitor on the dashboard, drivers can find
their way to any address; a beep and dot on the screen
indicate the car's changing location. A computerized voice
also helps direct the traveler.
   A spokesman says Avis will test the system starting in
Orlando, Fla., with drivers from the American Automobile
Association, which developed the computer with General Motors
and federal and state highway authorities. "If it works,
we'll try it in other cities," the spokesman says.
   The biggest obstacle for both Avis and National may be
just getting travelers to pay for the technology. Unlike
other travel industries, car-rental companies have never been
able to persuade the public to pay for new gizmos. On
average, car-rental prices are the same today as they were a
decade ago; when adjusted for inflation, that amounts to a
substantial price drop.

   Fliers Try to Freshen Up
   PCs in Airliner Lavatories
                                                                                                       

   WORKAHOLICS in the air have found a new work station: the
bathroom.
   Some airlines say many business fliers hole up in the
bathroom so they can recharge their portable computers on the
shaving outlets. But this can cause some problems: broken
outlets and long waits for anyone else trying to get in.
   Moreover, most shaving units on planes can't properly
recharge the battery; the unit's current usually isn't
compatible or isn't strong enough for the computer battery.
"But people keep trying anyway," says a spokesman for Japan
Air Lines. In frustration, some carriers tape over the shaver
outlets on some flights.
   Usually, this is a problem only on international flights,
because the batteries don't wear out on shorter trips. And
United Airlines says it doesn't have electrical shaving units
on the planes it uses for most domestic trips.
                                                                                                       

   Odds and Ends
                                                                                                       

   AIR FARE:
                                                                                                       

   USAir spends more on food per revenue passenger mile than
any other major carrier. American ranks second and Delta Air
Lines third, according to figures for the third quarter of
1991 in Aviation Daily. Southwest Airlines, which spent the
least, has little food service because most of its flights
are short. Trans World Airlines spent the second-lowest
amount, followed by Northwest Airlines. . . . Airlines often
offer last-minute business discount fares to fill as many
seats as possible. Now, American Airlines is considering
whether it will do better by letting seats go empty and using
the extra weight allowance to carry more cargo.