Law -- Legal Beat:
   Big Firms Trim Pay Scales for Associates
   ----
   By Junda Woo and Milo Geyelin
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
The trend isn't limited to Manhattan, lawyers said. In
Chicago, Winston  Strawn froze its salary scale, as did
Akin, Gump, Hauer  Feld in Dallas and Washington, D.C.,
Baker  McKenzie, the nation's largest law firm with offices
in many cities, didn't increase starting salaries, and will
give higher-level associates only "modest" pay increases,
said Daniel J. Burns, director of professional recruitment.
Similar limitations on salaries have been set in other
cities' law firms as well.
   "Certainly in the big cities, and even in some of the
secondary cities, we're seeing the same phenomenon," said
Chuck J. Santangelo, a director of Hildebrandt Inc., a
law-firm consulting firm in Somerville, N.J. Mr. Santangelo
expects the trend to continue for the next two years.
   To be sure, associate pay is still higher than most recent
professional-school graduates can expect: The average
starting salary at a large New York firm is $83,600. For a
second-year associate the salary would be $94,400. In most
firms, associates who get moved up a rung on the partnership
ladder will still receive a pay raise -- just not as big an
increase as they could have expected in years past.
   Perhaps the most drastic belt-tightening comes at Skadden,
Arps, Slate, Meagher  Flom in New York, a 1,000-lawyer
megafirm that doubled associate starting salaries in the
1980s. This year, Skadden is promoting associates to the next
level, as usual, but paying them at the previous level. In
years before, associates could have expected a 10% salary
increase.
   "There is more competition on pricing," said Skadden
executive partner Peter P. Mullen. "This gives us maximum
flexibility."
   Bonuses have dried up, too. For example, Sullivan 
Cromwell, New York, is considering trimming the bonuses that
traditionally made it one of the nation's highest paying
firms, according to partner Benjamin F. Stapleton. Other
firms also are limiting the bonanzas that at some firms are
doled out more than once a year.
   The caution on salaries foreshadows drastic changes for
the next generation of lawyers. "It is becoming more and more
difficult to make partner in many law firms," Mr. Santangelo
said. "For many associates, it's out of their reach entirely.
There's just too many lawyers out there."
   ---
   TWO FORMER ASBESTOS MAKERS settle cases on eve of
mega-trial.
   Fibreboard Corp. and Owens-Illinois Inc., two of more than
a dozen defendants in a huge asbestos trial set to begin in
Baltimore today, settled most of the suits against them.
Neither company nor their lawyers would disclose the terms.
   The trial, before Circuit Judge Marshall A. Levin,
consolidates 8,555 cases filed by plaintiffs in Baltimore and
four Maryland counties who claim lung and breathing-related
injuries from handling asbestos insulating material without
protection.
   Jurors in the case will hear from only six of the
plaintiffs or their survivors to determine to what degree the
companies named as defendants are liable. The jury is being
asked to determine whether the asbestos products injured or
killed any of the six plaintiffs, whether the manufacturers
were aware of the dangers of asbestos at the time the workers
were exposed and whether their conduct was so egregious that
plaintiffs should be entitled to punitive damages. Actual
damages for remaining plaintiffs will be determined in
subsequent mini-trials.
   Fibreboard, based in Concord, Calif., and Owens-Illinois,
based in Toledo, Ohio, were both considered among the more
peripheral of the defendants. Fibreboard said it didn't
distribute the product in Maryland, and Owens-Illinois never
manufactured much in the first place. Fibreboard settled all
the suits against it; Owens-Illinois settled "the vast
majority of them," a spokesman said.
   Lawyers said that broader settlement negotiations are
always a possibility but that the Fibreboard and
Owens-Illinois deals aren't likely in themselves to spur
further agreements involving other defendants.
   The remaining defendants include Armstrong World
Industries Inc., GAF Corp., Keene Corp., National Gypsum Co.,
Owens-Corning Fiberglas Corp. and U.S. Gypsum Co., a unit of
USG Corp.
   ---
   GET READY FOR JAIL, federal judge tells Leona Helmsley.
   U.S. District Judge Thomas P. Griesa told lawyers for
hotel and real estate executive Leona Helmsley to prepare
their client for the "unfortunate necessity of
incarceration." The judge spoke at a conference yesterday to
schedule Mrs. Helmsley's resentencing for federal tax
evasion, filing false returns and mail fraud. The U.S.
Supreme Court last month declined to consider an appeal of
her August 1989 conviction.
   Turning to a tearful Mrs. Helmsley, who was sitting in the
front row of the spectator seats, Judge Griesa told her "not
to be misled" about the possibility of avoiding jail time.
"Let's everybody get realistic here," Judge Griesa added.
   Mrs. Helmsley's chief lawyer, Alan Dershowitz, told the
judge that over the past weekend a doctor discovered that his
client had suffered a stroke in 1990. "We're talking about
life or death," said Mr. Dershowitz, a professor at Harvard
Law School. He said that if jail time for Mrs. Helmsley
didn't kill her, it would certainly kill her husband, Harry
Helmsley, who is very sick and depends on his wife for care.
   The judge responded that Mrs. Helmsley, 72 years old,
could be treated in the "very fine" hospitals of the federal
prison system. He also said that Mrs. Helmsley and her
lawyers should begin preparing Mr. Helmsley for eventual
separation from his wife.
   Judge Griesa set resentencing for March 18. Mrs. Helmsley
was sentenced in December 1989 to serve four years in prison
and pay a fine of $7.2 million, a sentence that was struck
down by an appeals court on technical grounds. The judge said
he agreed with government lawyers that he shouldn't consider
motions to reduce her sentence for health reasons or hold a
new trial until after the resentencing.
   Asked after the conference about the possibility of
imprisonment, Mrs. Helmsley said, "It would be a death
sentence for two people."
   ---
   Corrections  Amplifications
                                                                                                       

   THE LAW FIRM Akin, Gump, Hauer  Feld has frozen associate
lawyers' starting salaries but is increasing its salary scale
for associates who are promoted along the partnership track.
Yesterday's Legal Beat column misstated the policy.
   (WSJ March 11, 1992)