Winter Olympics 1992:
   Television Highlights
   ----
   By Kevin Goldman
Sharpen your skates and get a grip on the eye drops. Not
only is CBS about to bombard us with 116 hours of Olympics,
officially starting tomorrow with the schmaltzy opening
ceremonies, but rivals are trying to crash the party and
steal viewers who are less than passionate about a triple
axel.
                                                                                                       

   Muscular Competition
                                                                                                       

   Among the weapons: the muscle-bound likes of Sylvester
Stallone on ABC and Arnold Schwarzenegger on NBC. The
counterpunching begins even before the opening ceremonies.
Tomorrow afternoon, while CBS airs practice runs of Alpine
skiing (die-hard fans only, please), ABC will air the first
fight of a pro boxing series sponsored by Fruit of the Loom.
                                                                                                       

   A Newfangled Geography
                                                                                                       

   Later that evening, the three-hour opening festival will
air, with 300 professional dancers and 1,500 locals prancing
about. It's bound to resemble a newfangled geography lesson,
featuring such new countries as Turkmenia from the newly
coined Commonwealth of Independent States. The whole shebang
is choreographed by Philippe Decoufle, 30.
                                                                                                       

   Real Events Start Sunday
                                                                                                       

   The real flexing starts Sunday. As CBS airs men's downhill
skiing and pairs figure skating, NBC hopes to pump up its
ratings with Arnold in "Kindergarten Cop." In case you miss
it, NBC will run the flick again the following Friday,
opposite more skating. Also Sunday, ABC hopes to tip the
scales with the miniseries "Burden of Proof," based on the
legal thriller by Scott Turow.
   Sunday afternoon is also the first competition for the
U.S. hockey team. The 1980 team captured the heart of America
when it won the gold. The chances for this year's team are
less auspicious. Its six-month world-wide record is 17-31-8.
   Sunday evening will feature alpine skiing, men's downhill.
A potential star is A.J. Kitt of Rochester, N.Y., who won the
opening downhill of the year's World Cup.
   ABC weighs in with heavier ammunition on Feb. 19: while
CBS prances with women on blades, the politically incorrect
Sly will be slaying Commies in "Rambo III." A stud of another
sort -- the nerdy Urkel of the ABC comedy "Family Matters" --
takes aim at CBS's four-man bobsled competition, in his own
special Feb. 22. Set those VCRs.
                                                                                                       

   Fox in the Hunt
                                                                                                       

   Starting Feb. 17, the Fox network will ambush CBS with
"Fox Summer Games," in which every sophomoric Fox show -- too
long a list to include here -- will have a warm-climate
theme. "The Simpsons" will play baseball, featuring the
voices of Don Mattingly, Steve Sax and Darryl Strawberry,
among others. The entire week will be hosted by stuntmeister
Super Dave Osborne, whose stunts never go as they're planned.
Hollywood vs. Albertville
   For the first time, the battle for viewers won't be
confined to prime time. ABC's "Good Morning America" is
hoping to keep its lead by providing breakfast viewers with a
perky "Hollywood wake-up tour," which will visit the sets of
nighttime series.
   Prominent on its list: a sojourn to "Murphy Brown," one of
the top series CBS is pre-empting to make way for the Winter
Games.
   ---
   Saturday, February 8
                                                                                                       

     4-6 p.m.                            8-11 p.m.
       CBS                                 CBS
                                                                                                       

     -- Hockey                           -- Opening
     -- Alpine Skiing                       Ceremonies
        (men's downhill practice runs)
     -- Ski Jumping

                                                                                                       

   Sunday, February 9
                                                                                                       

   9.a.m. - Noon          2-6 p.m.             8-11 p.m.
       CBS                  CBS                  CBS
                                                                                                       

   -- Hockey           -- Hockey: live      -- Figure
   -- Luge                (U.S. vs. Italy)     skating
      (men's singles)  -- Luge                 (pairs short
   -- Cross-country       (men's singles)       program)
      skiing           -- Ski Jumping       -- Alpine
      (women's 15 km.)    (individual 90m.)    skiing
   -- Freestyle        -- Speed skating        (men's
      skiing              long track            downhill)
      (ballet prelims.)   (women's 3,000 m.)
                                                                                                       

   All times are Eastern Standard