Hong Kong Considers Deposit Insurance
   For Banks in Wake of BCCI Unit Closure
   ----
   By Julia Leung
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The debate on deposit insurance heated up during and after
the banking crisis of 1983-86, when seven local banks on the
brink of collapse were taken over by the government or other
banks. At the time, the public clamored for a
deposit-insurance plan but met stiff resistance from big
local banks. The issue also drew little attention from the
government; regulators focused instead on such matters as
tightening banking supervision and capital-adequacy ratios in
the wake of the crisis.
   Events of last year apparently prompted a shift in the
government's attitude. On July 8, Hong Kong regulators closed
the Bank of Credit  Commerce Hong Kong Ltd., following the
lead of regulators in Europe to clamp down on scandal-ridden
BCCI Holdings (Luxembourg) S.A., the bank's parent. The local
closure prompted a public outcry from angry depositors and
sparked miniruns on several of the biggest and soundest banks
in the colony.
   The serious attention the government is giving to deposit
insurance should silence critics who have long accused it of
protecting the interests of big banks. Among the staunchest
opponents of deposit insurance is the Hongkong  Shanghai
Banking Corp., which argues that deposit insurance would do
little to further the government's objective of stabilizing
the banking system. Instead, it would likely saddle big banks
with the hefty costs of implementing such a plan, Hongkong
Bank officials say.
   "Deposits in Hong Kong are concentrated in so few banks
that such a scheme, if implemented, would be grossly unfair
to these banks," says Vincent Cheng, senior manager of
Hongkong Bank's research division, and a member of the
Legislative Council, the colony's lawmaking body. "It
effectively means that big banks would be subsidizing weak
banks."
   Even bankers who say they are openminded on the matter
still express reservations on how effective a
deposit-insurance plan would be in stemming bank runs. J.P.
Lee, an executive director of Hongkong Chinese Bank, says,
"The critical issue is how much coverage the scheme would
offer, what are the costs of the exercise and whether such
costs would outweigh benefits." Hongkong Chinese Bank is
controlled by Lippo Group of Indonesia, which reached a
tentative pact late last year to take over BCC Hong Kong.
   Supporters of deposit insurance, among them many
government officials, believe that the miniruns last year
produced strong evidence that the banking system leaves a lot
to be desired. Prior to BCC Hong Kong's closure, no
depositors had lost a cent of savings because of bank
failures. The prospect that 40,000 BCC Hong Kong depositors
might lose their money spread panic. (Under the takeover
agreement, the new buyer has promised BCC Hong Kong
depositors that they can withdraw all or most of their
savings in the future.)
   But skeptics of deposit insurance cite the same incident
to underscore the limitations of such protection. Rumors
spread quickly in this densely packed community, and some
bankers argue that the public's tendency to join a line
outweighs any desire to find out why the line is there.
Anthony Nicolle, who stepped down last year as head of the
Banking Commission to become general manager of Standard
Chartered Bank's Hong Kong and China area, says, "If that's
the way minds work here, there are serious reservations"
about whether deposit insurance would be effective. But he
adds that, on balance, he is "ambivalent" about the scheme.
   The cost of a deposit-insurance plan could be hefty,
depending on the size of the insurance fund. The bigger the
fund, the greater the coverage for depositors. According to
bankers who have read an earlier draft of the consultation
paper, the government is suggesting a fund that could cope
with the failure of a medium-sized bank. That proposal
recognizes the impracticality of establishing a fund large
enough to meet depositor demands if a major bank collapses.
   Having decided the size of the insurance fund, the
government would next look for ways to finance it. Bankers
say most discussion has focused on a plan under which the
fund would guarantee 75% to 100% of deposits under HK$100,000
(US$12,888). That scenario also supposes an annual levy of
between 0.1% to 0.2% to be imposed on all Hong Kong dollar
deposits under HK$100,000 with a local or foreign bank. The
government estimates that HK$1.8 billion to HK$2.5 billion
would be collected each year.
   Bankers say the government favors a flat-rate system in
which a bank's contribution to the insurance fund grows in
proportion to the size of its deposits. The alternative, a
risk-adjusted system in which banks with riskier assets pay a
higher premium, is more difficult because of problems in
devising and implementing it.
   Under a flat-rate system, the burden of the program would
fall on the few big banks, namely Hongkong Bank and its
majority-controlled Hang Seng Bank, and the Bank of China
group, which control the majority of Hong Kong's deposits.
   Bankers' objections to the scheme don't stem from premium
payments alone, since the costs are widely expected to be
passed to depositors in the form of higher bank charges or
lower interest payments. However, big banks are concerned
that the government could face a political liability if it
has to bail out the fund when it lacks sufficient money to
satisfy all depositors. Even the government concedes that it
will take several years for the fund to accumulate enough
money to cope with the failure of a medium-sized bank. In the
event of a crisis, says Hongkong Bank's Mr. Cheng, "The
government isn't going to bail out the fund; it will come to
us for rescue."