Shearson Lehman Said to Be Discussing
   Bailout Proposal for First Capital Life
   ----
   By Susan Pulliam
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
A large portion of the policies of First Capital Life were
sold through E.F. Hutton  Co., which Shearson acquired after
the stock-market crash in 1987. As a result, Shearson is said
to be trying to come to an agreement with Mr. Garamendi to
protect its customers. New York-based Shearson may also be
trying to protect itself against potentially large lawsuits
from policyholders and shareholders.
   Shearson is also proposing to provide a guarantee of the
company's policyholder obligations that would give
policyholders 100 cents on the dollar and a minimum interest
rate on annuities and interest-bearing policies, one person
close to the talks said. Under the plan, however,
policyholders wouldn't be able to withdraw their money for
five years without paying a stiff penalty, the individual
said. The guarantee from Shearson would be backed up by
American Express, people close to the talks said.
   A spokesman for Shearson said the company is "engaged in
discussions with the insurance commissioner in California."
He declined to elaborate. A spokesman for the California
insurance department also said talks were "progressing."
   Mr. Garamendi tried last spring to convince American
Express to ante up roughly $60 million in capital for First
Capital Life, which was struggling with a large junk bond
portfolio. Mr. Garamendi took control of the insurer, however
when American Express balked at the idea. First Capital
Holdings, meanwhile, filed for bankruptcy protection.
   Meanwhile, Virginia regulators are said to be close to
unveiling a rescue plan for Fidelity Bankers Life Insurance
Co., the Richmond, Va., unit of First Capital Holdings, which
was seized soon after the California unit. As many as eight
potential buyers are said to be interested in buying in the
unit, including First Capital Holdings, which is still in
bankruptcy proceedings, a person close to the situation said.
   Though talks between California's insurance regulators and
Shearson and American Express have continued intermittently
since last spring, the discussions recently began to "move
forward," according to a person close to the negotiations. A
final agreement could be as long as two weeks away, however.
   A plan to rescue First Capital Life involving Shearson
could run aground if a battle with creditors erupts over
their treatment under the proposal. Citicorp is owed roughly
$260 million under a loan to First Capital Holdings that is
secured by the stock of both of its life insurance units.
   It is unclear how much, if anything, Citicorp would
receive under the plan. The banking company holds roughly
two-thirds of the loan. First Capital Holdings also has
roughly $120 million in subordinated debt outstanding.
   In an unusual move several weeks ago, Citicorp, National
Westminster Bank and NationsBank resigned from the creditors
committee overseeing the bankruptcy proceedings of First
Capital Holdings. One person close to the situation said the
group resigned because they are secured creditors, while the
other creditors are not.