IBM's Akers Expects 1991 Base Pay
   To Be Cut 40% to Less Than $1.6 Million
   ----
   By Paul B. Carroll
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The spokesman said that the four other members of IBM's
management committee, its top group, will likewise probably
see their pay drop 40% or more. An industry executive said
the approximately 60 other executives who carry titles of
corporate vice president and above will see their base pay
drop 10% to 20%. The IBM spokesman said that was possible,
given that IBM has been increasingly tying executives' pay to
the company's performance, but he said he didn't think the
issue had been resolved yet. It likewise won't be clear until
after the board meeting whether the company will somehow
soften the pay cuts, possibly by granting stock awards or
options that aren't counted as base pay.
   The issue of executive pay is a sensitive one at most
companies these days. (Indeed, James Preston, chairman and
chief executive officer of Avon Products Inc., on Friday said
he has frozen his salary and lowered his bonus in exchange
for stock options.)
   But the issue has been an especially touchy one at IBM for
the past year. Even though many IBM employees have found
raises hard to come by in recent years as IBM has languished,
Mr. Akers and the other management committee members received
pay increases of 33% to 43% a year ago, based on the
company's strong 1990 earnings. The executives also received
restricted stock awards that were then valued at $725,000 to
$2 million. Compounding the alarm among employees was the
fact that the very day the pay increases were disclosed in
articles based on the company's proxy statement, the company
announced that first-quarter earnings would be a disaster.
   The annual report also provided new details on IBM's
services business, which the company has said for some time
is growing rapidly and which it looks to as a way of reducing
its reliance on computer hardware, where price wars have
developed. The report says that services revenue grew 35%
last year, to $5.6 billion. But the report also says that the
gross profit margin on services was 18.8%. That is more than
30 percentage points lower than for IBM as a whole, calling
into question how much of a savior the services business will
turn out to be.
   In addition, the report removes the wording that in prior
years had said the company intended to maintain its prized
triple-A credit rating. Reflecting announcements that the
rating agencies have turned cautious on IBM, the report
merely says the company intends to maintain "a strong capital
structure."
   "That is a clear signal that the rating is not
sustainable," said Steve Cohen, a securities analyst at
SoundView Financial Group Inc.
   Separately, industry executives said IBM has decided to
delay the U.S. announcement of its entry into the notebook
computer market, which had been set for tomorrow. The product
will be introduced in Europe as scheduled, but the U.S.
unveiling has been delayed until late March. The notebook,
which was expected to have an aggressive price but which
contains hohum technology, is to become part of an
announcement of a potentially very interesting product: a
laptop with a sharp color screen that can run on batteries.
   Tomorrow, IBM is expected to announce machines that
replace the middle of its personal-computer line. An IBM
spokesman declined to comment, but industry executives said
the products will use a special IBM version of the Intel
Corp. 386SX chip that is more than 80% faster than the
comparable Intel version. The products will also be able to
use floppy disks that hold 2.88 megabytes of data, twice the
capacity of the current standard.
   But dealers said the PC market is moving to Intel chips
that are more powerful than the 80386SX, reducing the
advantage that IBM gets from its special chip. The dealers
said it also isn't clear whether IBM has priced the machines
low enough.
   "IBM really has to deliver something strong here," said
Matt Fitzsimmons, owner of a ComputerLand store in North
White Plains, N.Y. "They've been very successful to date in
that middle range, but their stuff is beginning to age, and
customers are beginning to consider alternatives."