Politics  Policy:
   Bush Outlines
   Spending Cuts
   For Pentagon
   ---
   Speech Calls for Reducing
   Budget by $50 Billion,
   Slashing Nuclear Forces
   ----
   By John Harwood
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
And in a move that would permanently change the character
of U.S. and East European nuclear forces, Mr. Bush said he
has proposed to Russia and the other former Soviet republics
that all sides' land-based multiple-warhead nuclear missiles
be eliminated. He described the early response from Russian
President Boris Yeltsin -- who is scheduled to visit with Mr.
Bush at Camp David this weekend -- as "very positive."
   "By the grace of God, America won the Cold War," Mr. Bush
told members of Congress who packed the House chamber. "There
are still threats. But the long, drawn-out dread is over."
   Crediting U.S. taxpayers for bearing "the brunt of the
burden" in defeating communism, the president offered back "a
hunk of the glory" -- and $50 billion in cuts from projected
Pentagon spending over the next five years to be devoted to
deficit reduction, helping free up other revenues for
domestic programs. At the same time, Mr. Bush warned
congressional Democrats that he would fight additional
reductions in the Pentagon budget, which totals $291 billion
in the year that began Oct. 1, and specifically what remains
of the Strategic Defense Initiative.
   "This deep, and no deeper," Mr. Bush declared. "We must
not go back to the days of the hollow army . . . For the
world is still a dangerous place. Only the dead have seen the
end of conflict."
   By invoking U.S. foreign policy triumphs, which consumed
the first third of Mr. Bush's remarks, the president reminded
Americans of his strong suit and set the stage for the
soaring rhetoric in which he enveloped his domestic program.
"We are going to lift this nation out of hard times inch by
inch and day by day, and those who would stop us had better
step aside," Mr. Bush pledged near the end of his speech. In
addressing U.S. current problems, he repeated his vow to
expel Saddam Hussein's army from Kuwait a year ago: "This
will not stand."
   But for all his display of determination, Mr. Bush faced
radically different political circumstances than in his two
previous State of the Union speeches. In January 1990, one
month after the invasion of Panama that toppled Manuel
Noriega, the president's public approval rating topped 70%. A
year later, amid his leadership of the one-sided Persian Gulf
War, Mr. Bush's popularity was near 80%. Foreign affairs
dominated both speeches, and the Democratic response was
muted.
   Yesterday, with the spotlight fixed on domestic problems,
the White House in turmoil, and the president's popularity
sagging at around 50%, an increasingly assertive Democratic
majority was maneuvering for advantage even before the
president spoke.
   The House Ways and Means Committee approved another
13-week extension of federal benefits for jobless workers, an
action Mr. Bush opposed vehemently last year but now
supports. And Senate Democrats fired a warning shot of
partisan brawls to come with an amendment aimed at shifting
defense funds to domestic programs. The proposal from
Colorado Sen. Timothy Wirth was non-binding and lost 53-45,
but that margin was much closer than votes on similar
proposals late last year, indicating further erosion of
support for the 1990 budget agreement that Mr. Bush continues
to support.
   Hoping to build public backing, Mr. Bush and his aides in
recent days selectively released the good news portions of
the administration budget that might otherwise get lost in
the focus on economic policy: increases in funding for the
Head Start preschool education program, a space station,
anti-drug efforts and environmental cleanup. But for other
"discretionary" domestic programs -- which doesn't include
so-called entitlement programs like Social Security and
Medicare -- Mr. Bush in his speech proposed a budget freeze
while calling for elimination of some 246 unspecified
programs.
   "It's time we discovered a home truth the American people
have never forgotten: This government is too big and spends
too much," Mr. Bush said. He reiterated his past requests --
which lawmakers have repeatedly rejected -- for authority to
veto individual line items in legislation passed by Congress.
   Mr. Bush demanded that Congress pass his domestic program
by March 20 and urged Democrats not to "put their party's
fortunes before the public good" in this election year. But
several of the domestic initiatives Mr. Bush discussed are
likely to receive an indifferent reception.
   The president called on the country "to revolutionize
America's schools," and said his education plan "will give
parents more choice, give teachers more flexibility, and help
communities create new American schools." But a few hours
earlier, the Senate, in a 92-6 vote, approved an education
bill that largely rejects the main tenets of the White House
approach.
   Mr. Bush repeated his demand that Congress pass his
anti-crime legislation. The legislation, which has consumed
thousands of hours of debate in recent years, would expand
the federal death penalty and increase mandatory prison terms
for violent crime. Various versions have passed at different
times, but the overall legislation has repeatedly failed
because of objections from members of both parties. In
interviews, officials of Mr. Bush's own Justice Department
expressed disappointment that the anti-crime portion of the
speech contained so few initiatives.
   To combat the breakup of families in the inner city, Mr.
Bush announced that he would create a Commission on America's
Urban Families at the request of a group of mayors with whom
he met recently. Co-chairing the commission will be Missouri
Gov. John Ashcroft and former Dallas Mayor Annette Strauss.
   Echoing a theme that is increasingly popular in state
governments, Mr. Bush said he would move to "reform the
welfare system" by making "able-bodied" welfare recipients
"seek work, education or job training." Mr. Bush promised to
help state governments revamp the welfare system by making it
easier for them to waive certain federal regulations
governing welfare.
   The president also called on Congress to fund fully a
housing program that would "empower the poor" by allowing
them to purchase public housing. But the administration's $1
billion request for this program is considered likely to be
whittled down considerably by Congress, which in the past has
been reluctant to allocate scarce housing dollars to the
initiative.
   In the nationally televised Democratic response, House
Speaker Thomas Foley pledged to seek common ground with the
administration, but also underscored the importance of his
party's principles and the need for change in a post-Cold War
world. "The old ways of thinking and leading will not do,"
the Washington state Democrat said.
   Hoping to deter Republicans from using such divisive
campaign issues as racial quotas, Mr. Foley spoke strongly of
civil rights and declared that "appeals to race should have
no place in our politics or our national life." He invoked
another social issue -- abortion -- that could give Democrats
an election-year boost and that Mr. Bush didn't mention in
his remarks.
   "We will stand -- and we will fight -- for a woman's right
to choose," Mr. Foley vowed. "If the Supreme Court removes
the guarantee of choice from the Constitution of the United
States, this Congress will write it into the laws of the
United States."
   Mr. Bush's defense initiatives, as expected, seek to save
an additional $50 billion over five years, primarily by
cutting weapons development and procurement. The moves are
expected to save only about $1 billion in fiscal 1993,
however, and Congress has been looking at some of the moves
for some time.
   By contrast, Mr. Bush made it clear that the U.S. won't
eliminate the current MX arsenal or slash warheads on
submarine-based missiles unless the other side agrees to
drastic reductions in its most potent, multiple-warhead
missiles. On the U.S. side, Mr. Bush is offering to eliminate
the new arsenal of 50 MX missiles, each of which has 10
warheads. And the U.S. would also remove two of the three
warheads on each of the nation's 500 Minuteman 3 missiles.
   But the cuts would have to be even deeper on the Russian
side, which probably has to eliminate or reduce to a single
warhead its force of SS-18 and SS-24 missiles. The former
Soviet Union always depended more heavily than did the U.S.
on big land-based missiles.
   To compensate for the deeper Russian cuts on land, Mr.
Bush also offered to cut the number of warheads on U.S.
sea-based missiles by a third. But Mr. Bush didn't offer to
eliminate all multiple-warhead missiles based on U.S.
submarines. And without being specific, Mr. Bush said that he
would "convert a substantial portion " of U.S. nuclear
bombers to conventional use.
   ---
   Gerald F. Seib and David Rogers contributed to this
article.