Study Says Teen-Agers' Smoking Habits
   Seem to Be Linked to Heavy Advertising
   ----
   By Glenn Ruffenach
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
While researchers have long maintained -- and the tobacco
industry has long denied -- that some advertising promotes
smoking among children, few statistics have been available to
bolster either argument. In recent months, however, studies
in the Journal of the American Medical Association, and now
the CDC report, indicated that some marketing efforts are
highly successful in winning adolescent loyalties.
   The CDC's study "dispels the notion that kids aren't
influenced by this advertising," said Donald Shopland,
coordinator for the National Cancer Institute's smoking and
tobacco control program. "You have the industry saying: `Kids
don't pay attention to this stuff; it's only directed at
adults.' But the brands that children are buying do show that
they pay attention."
   The report comes on the heels of a demand made earlier
this week by the U.S. surgeon general, Antonia Novello, that
RJR Nabisco voluntarily halt its "Old Joe" campaign for its
Camel cigarettes. The food and tobacco company, based in New
York, and its tobacco subsidiary, based in Winston-Salem,
N.C., have indicated they have no plans to change the ads,
which feature cartoon characters.
   A spokeswoman for R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Co. dismissed the
CDC's findings. "No matter what country you look at," said
Maura Payne, the spokeswoman, "advertising doesn't play a
significant role in decisions to begin smoking. It's always
the influence of friends and family that matters most."
Officials at Philip Morris Cos. in New York, maker of
Marlboro, and Lorillard Inc., a unit of Loews Corp. in New
York and maker of Newport, couldn't be reached for comment.
   The CDC's survey of 1,396 teen-agers found that 69%
preferred Marlboro, 8.2% preferred Newport, and 8.1%
preferred Camel. That tight grouping, according to the
report, which contains three of the most heavily promoted
cigarettes in the country, "suggests that tobacco advertising
may influence teen-agers in their choice of brands."
   With regard to Marlboro cigarettes in particular, the
report said teen-age smokers "may be attracted to the brand's
image of strength and independence promoted in the
long-running `Marlboro man' advertising campaign."
   Among black adolescents, mentholated brands were the
cigarette of choice. Sixty-one percent said they preferred
Newport, 11% bought Kool and 10% Salem.
   The contrast with adult smokers was striking. Among
individuals aged 25 to 64, Marlboro was again the
most-preferred cigarette -- but only among 24% of those
surveyed. Next was Winston with 11%, followed by Salem, 8.8%.
Camel and Newport had 6.1% and 5.6%, respectively.