Enterprise -- Financing Small Business:
   Slew of Small Computer Companies Are Set to Go Public
   ----
   By Udayan Gupta
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
For instance, Conductus Inc. says it will go public next
month and hopes to raise an estimated $30 million in new
capital. The Sunnyvale, Calif., company was formed in
September 1987 to exploit the excitement then surrounding
superconductor technology. While the company says it has
achieved several "significant technological milestones" it
also has accumulated about $8 million in losses. "There can
be no assurance that the company will ever be able to achieve
profitable operations or, if profitability is achieved, that
it can be sustained," the company says in its stock offering
prospectus.
   "There's a surging interest in computer new issues," says
Richard Shaffer, editor of Computer Letter. These companies
usually don't have too many shares outstanding and are
"underanalyzed," he says. To be sure, some large computer
concerns have had well-publicized declines in earnings
lately. But "money managers see a greater opportunity to find
bargains in {the computer} sector," Mr. Shaffer adds.
   Small computer companies in February raised $156.5 million
in new issues, according to IDD Information Services Inc.,
New York. That was more than the total raised in February by
biotechnology and health care companies that for the last
year or so have dominated the new issues market.
   "The computer companies that are raising money are not
your traditional hardware or box companies. They tend to be
largely in the area of software, productivity enhancement and
technological innovation," says Edward Mathias, managing
director of T. Rowe Price Associates, a Baltimore
money-management firm.
   Venture capitalists already are stepping up their
investments in small computer-based companies, Computer
Letter says. In the fourth quarter of 1991, venture
capitalists invested $317 million in 136 computer-related
transactions. That is slightly ahead of the year-earlier
quarter in dollars invested and a 23% increase in the number
of companies funded.
   In the preceding quarter, only $205 million in venture
capital went to computer-based start-ups, the newsletter
says.
   ---
   SMALL BUSINESS MIGHT benefit from new initiatives senators
are proposing.
   Plans for a new $500 million venture fund and regional
research centers are "part of a larger strategy to restore
the country's competitiveness," says Sen. Jay Rockefeller
(D., W.Va.). In the current budget crunch, funding problems
could stall the plans. But Sen. Rockefeller and several other
senators are proposing a series of ideas to put fresh capital
into small businesses and help boost their technological
skills and competitiveness.
   With venture capital for fast-growing businesses at its
lowest level in five years, Sen. Rockefeller is proposing the
creation of an Advanced Technologies Capital Consortium, a
venture-capital pool that would match federal funds with
private contributions to provide debt and equity financing to
technology companies. The consortium, which will finance
research and development as well as application and
commercialization of so-called critical technologies, hopes
to have $100 million in federal funds in its first year, and
$200 million for the two subsequent years.
   Sen. Joseph Lieberman (D., Conn.) is proposing the
formation of research centers to help businesses upgrade
technology. The centers, formed by business groups and
community colleges, would "tell you what the new technologies
are and how to use them," he explains. The research centers
would also train workers in the new technology.
   Congress recently approved a $3 million program grant to
New Mexico State University to work with Sandia National
Laboratories and regional businesses to create a similar
research center. Sen. Lieberman's proposal would extend this
program across the country. Sens. Rockefeller and Lieberman
see their efforts as a way to curb the growing influence of
European and Asian companies that have provided needed
capital to small U.S. companies.
   These efforts can be financed by shifting priorities
within government agencies, without increasing tax revenue,
congressional staffers say. Still, with predictions of an
ever-widening budget gap, the proposals could face tough
sledding, critics contend.
   ---
   IOWA PROGRAM provides funds to small businesses for jobs
training.
   The state's small-business new jobs training program works
with community colleges to train employees in such areas as
technical skills, quality improvement and job literacy. Under
the program, companies are reimbursed for the cost of
training new employees in courses designed especially for the
businesses. Since its inception in 1985, the Iowa program has
provided reimbursements of over $3 million to 85 small
businesses.
   "The program is designed as an incentive for Iowa
companies to create new jobs," says Alan Clausen, one of the
program's administrators. The programs are managed by Iowa
community colleges, which "are well equipped to understand
and address the needs of their local communities," he adds.
   Small businesses also can participate in the state's
two-year-old retraining program, which has provided over $3
million to train more than 13,000 workers in their existing
jobs.
   ---
   NEW VENTURE seeks to boost U.S. investment in East Europe
health care.
   The U.S. Agency for International Development is giving
$17.5 million to Healthcare Enterprise International Inc., to
identify investment opportunities for U.S. companies.
   "Healthcare Enterprise will identify specific areas for
businesses to participate in," says Paul Rader, vice
president of the Rockville, Md., health-care company formed
to help East European countries privatize some of their
health care. "This should save many businesses the cost and
trouble of doing it themselves in an unfamiliar environment,"
he adds.
   The agency's contract with Healthcare Enterprise is "a new
direction," Mr. Rader says. Designed to increase investment
by private businesses in local health care systems, it is
"now trying to build up the infrastructure with U.S. business
know-how instead of merely providing grants-in-aid," he says.