Going Global With Mutual Funds:
   Reaping Gains on Emerging Nations' Growth
   ----
   By Jonathan Clements
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
NEW YORK -- Betting on the Third World's roller-coaster
stock markets may seem about on par with a weekend in Vegas.
But mutual fund experts insist the odds are a lot more
attractive.
   If asked to choose one fund as the likely best performer
over the next 10 years, "I'd pick an emerging markets fund,"
says Kenneth Gregory, editor of L/G No-Load Fund Analyst, a
San Francisco newsletter.
   A big reason for this optimism is the rapid economic
growth of many developing -- as well as some newly
industrialized-countries. Managers of the Montgomery Emerging
Markets Fund are looking for the Thai and Korean economies to
grow almost 8% this year, while they think Argentina,
Indonesia and Taiwan should grow an inflation-adjusted 7%.
Those gains would far outstrip the 2% growth many economists
are predicting for the U.S.
   In the past, roaring economies in some developing
countries have translated into spectacular stock market
performanceand big gains for a few American mutual funds.
Templeton Emerging Markets Fund, the oldest of the
diversified emerging markets funds, has soared 216.7% since
its early 1987 launch, compared with a 65.4% gain for the
Standard  Poor's 500 stock index.
   The stellar performance hasn't gone unnoticed by
investors, who have bid up the price of the Templeton shares
to lavish levels. Templeton Emerging Markets is a publicly
traded "closed-end" mutual fund, which means it has a fixed
number of shares outstanding. The price of these shares is
determined by trading on the New York Stock Exchange. As a
result, the fund can trade for more or less than the fund's
underlying per-share portfolio value. Right now, the fund is
trading for more -- a lot more. Yesterday, the shares closed
at $21.88, or 15% more than the fund's $19.01 underlying
per-share portfolio value.
   "I don't know why it's at a premium," says Mark Mobius,
the fund's manager. "There's no reason why {investors} should
buy the Emerging Markets Fund at a premium."
   Mr. Mobius also cautions that investors shouldn't expect a
repeat of the fund's past performance, which included a 78.5%
gain in 1991. "To say I'm going to have 78% returns next year
-- that's crazy," says Mr. Mobius. If the fund returns "16%
or 17% a year, I would be happy with that."
   Because of the Templeton fund's premium, investors may
want to consider other emerging markets funds, advisers say.
People looking to invest in emerging markets could use
closed-end funds such as Brazil Fund or Scudder New Asia
Fund. Or they could try a regular mutual fund such as T. Rowe
Price New Asia Fund or Fidelity International Opportunities
Fund, which have some investments in developing markets.
   But unlike Templeton Emerging Markets Fund, none of these
funds provide investors with both a geographically
diversified stock portfolio and a relatively pure play on
emerging markets. Within that definition, the choice is
limited to just seven funds, five of which were introduced in
the past year. The seven funds are listed in the accompanying
table.
   In addition to Templeton Emerging Markets, there is
another closed-end fund, Morgan Stanley Emerging Markets
Fund, which was launched late last year. But this fund also
trades at a premium, though a slightly smaller one. The fund
closed yesterday at $18, equal to an 11% premium over its
$16.15 per-share portfolio value.
   Mr. Gregory, the newsletter writer, thinks these
closed-end funds will outperform the regular emerging markets
mutual funds. His reasoning: Unlike a regular mutual fund,
the two closed-end funds don't have to worry about daily
sales and withdrawals and thus can remain fully invested in
emerging markets at all times. But even with that advantage,
Mr. Gregory suggests that it isn't worth paying more than a
3% or 4% premium for either the Morgan Stanley fund or the
Templeton fund.
   Among the other diversified emerging markets funds,
several are sold through brokers and charge a sales
commission. Mr. Mobius, for instance, runs a second emerging
markets fund, called Templeton Developing Markets Trust. The
trust, which was launched in October as a regular open-end
mutual fund, charges a 5.75% up-front sales commission, or
"load."
   For people who prefer to avoid paying sales commissions,
there are a couple of alternatives. One is the Lexington
Worldwide Emerging Markets Fund, a no-load fund with a $1,000
minimum.
   The Lexington fund aims to invest two-thirds of its assets
in emerging markets. The other third is funneled into
well-developed markets, where the fund looks to buy stocks
such as Avon Products and Chiquita Brands International whose
future growth is partly dependent on selling their products
to less developed countries.
   "Most people should have something like 5% in a fund like
this," says William Stack, Lexington Management Corp.'s chief
investment officer. "If they're very aggressive, they
shouldn't go beyond 10%."
   Mr. Stack is quick to note that the fund is "going to be
volatile." But he also says that "we're probably a more
conservative emerging markets vehicle," partly because of the
fund's willingness to raise cash and partly because it keeps
a third of its assets in more established companies.
   Those looking for a more pure emerging markets fund may
want to consider Montgomery Emerging Markets Fund. The fund,
launched earlier this week, will aim to keep between 85% and
90% in emerging markets and the remainder in securities that
are easier to sell. That way, the fund has a cushion in case
it gets a rush of shareholder withdrawals.
   Though the Montgomery fund is new, its two portfolio
managers, Bryan Sudweeks and Josephine Jimenez, have been
investing in emerging markets since 1988. "Four years may not
sound like much," says Mr. Sudweeks. "But many of these
markets you couldn't get into until two years ago."