REVIEW  OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   Civic Shame
The U.S.-Canada Free Trade Agreement was supposed to lower
barriers between the world's two greatest trading partners.
Cars that are at least 50% "North American" are supposed to
be traded between the two countries without a tariff. But now
people north of the border are steaming about a dispute over
Honda cars imported into the U.S.
   Honda estimates that two-thirds of the content of the
Honda Civics built in Alliston, Ontario, are U.S.- or
Canadian-produced, but U.S. Customs has apparently decided
that the cars fail the 50% test. Customs hasn't issued a
final report yet, but Honda knew there was a problem last
summer when a draft Customs report was leaked, saying the
cars weren't sufficiently North American. The tariff on
91,000 cars could run more than $16 million.
   Last week the firm sent an angry letter, accusing Customs
of using "irrational and absurd interpretations" of the
free-trade agreement. One example Honda gives is that Customs
didn't count as U.S.-made an engine block made of U.S.
aluminum that is cast, shaped, machined and finished in a
Honda plant in Anna, Ohio.
   "Honda believes that the results of the audit have been
skewed, assuring a `politically correct' conclusion," Honda
official Scott Whitlock wrote to Commissioner Carol Hallett.
One reason for suspicion is that the U.S. devised rules for
how it will measure local content only last month, after
Customs leaked that it would rule against the company. "Honda
will be judged in the audit on the basis of facts submitted
before there were any rules, and without any opportunity once
the rules were made known to submit additional data to show
its compliance with the rules," the letter said.
   Protectionists in Congress are delighted with Customs'
attack on Honda. Senator Donald Riegle (D., Michigan) sent a
letter to Treasury Secretary Brady congratulating him and
warning him to ignore "a public relations and influence
peddling campaign on behalf of the Japanese automotive
industry." In fact, if Japanese cars made in Canada are
subject to a tariff in the U.S., Japanese car makers can
simply move their plants to the U.S. -- which Canadians
suspect has been the U.S. motive all along.
   Customs is not the only agency of the U.S. government
chasing the chimera of local content. The Environmental
Protection Agency, which enforces the CAFE fleet-mileage
standards, recently announced that the 1993 Mazda 626 sedan
is the first foreign car to be a domestic car. (We're not
making this up.)
   Mazda is a U.S. car, according to the EPA, because 75% of
its parts are U.S.-made. EPA bolt-counters also ruled that
the 1992 Ford Mercury Marquis and Ford Crown Victoria are
foreign cars because too many parts come from Mexico.
Meanwhile, Honda Accords built in Marysville, Ohio, are
foreign despite having 75% "U.S." parts; they must be
balanced against Accords from Japan.
   As always, consumers are the biggest losers from all these
regulations to deter trade, not to mention the recent Bush
Asian auto tour. Japanese auto makers are reportedly about to
announce big price increases as the statesmanlike response to
protectionist pressures from Washington. Like the existing
"voluntary" export limits, setting higher prices will harm
U.S. consumers. To add insult to injury, the idea is that if
the Japanese raise their prices, Detroit's Big Three can pull
back on their rebate and discount programs. Meanwhile, the
Japanese firms would take their above-market profits and plow
them back into RD to help keep making a better car.
   Protectionism is a lose-lose game, especially as it's
played in Washington. All it does is drive the already high
sticker price on all cars higher. American car buyers are
being set up to be protectionism's next victims.