Many Major Banks Expected to Report
   Slightly Better 4th-Quarter Earnings
   ----
   By Peter Pae
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Indeed, J.P. Morgan  Co., scheduled to release its
results today, is expected to kick off a positive
earnings-report season for East Coast banks. Most large banks
will report their results in the next three weeks.
   "The abatement of credit deterioration and higher margins
caused by lower interest rates are what you would expect at
the end of a recession and at the start of a recovery," said
Brent B. Erensel of Mabon Securities Corp. "With few
exceptions I would expect {fourth-quarter} earnings to be
better." Bank stocks have also risen in recent weeks,
reflecting investor optimism for earnings improvement this
year.
   Still, fourth-quarter results aren't likely to be that
much better than a year earlier, when a number of large banks
incurred losses or lower earnings because of huge provisions
for loan losses.
   For one thing, loan demand among top-tier corporate
clients remains dismal and revenue growth nearly nonexistent,
and that isn't expected to change anytime soon. As well, some
banks could decide to take large loan-loss provisions in
hopes of starting their new year with a cleaner balance
sheet.
   "The fourth quarter is typically a cleanup time, so you
might see some banks take large loan-loss provisions," said
Alison A. Deans, analyst with Smith Barney, Harris Upham 
Co.
   The fourth-quarter results also likely will vary widely by
region and will depend on how well individual banks were able
to cope with their asset-quality problems. In general, West
Coast banks are expected to report dismal earnings and even
losses for some, while Midwest banks outshine other regions.
   "It's a mixed bag," said Donald Crowley, associate
director of research for Keefe, Bruyette  Woods Inc. "Some
sectors of the country that have done well last year have
turned for the worse, and other regions that were weak are
rebounding."
   As the earnings-reporting period begins, analysts have
grown more optimistic about earnings for some banks, like
Morgan. Consensus estimates for Morgan have risen to about
$1.31 a share from $1.23, according to First Call Corp., a
Wall Street research service.
   Chase Manhattan Corp. could also be a positive surprise,
Mabon's Mr. Erensel said, adding that Chase "appears to have
stabilized" its asset-quality problems and "is now reaping
some of the benefits" of earlier moves to cut costs.
   Citicorp and Chemical Banking Corp. will be the notable
exceptions among East Coast banks. Most analysts estimate
that Citicorp, which has been hobbled all year by sour real
estate loans and high consumer loan delinquencies, broke even
in the fourth quarter.
   And Chemical has already announced that it would increase
by $100 million, to $650 million, its anticipated
restructuring charge in the fourth quarter. As a result,
analysts estimate Chemical will post a loss of about 73 cents
a share.
   Midwest and Southern banks are likely to post the
strongest results, says Mr. Crowley of Keefe Bruyette, who
estimates 10% earnings growth for Midwest banks in the
Midwest and 11% for Southern ones.
   The few exceptions in the South will be Wachovia Corp.,
expected to report a loss tied to acquisition costs, and
NationsBank, the combination of NCNB and CS Sovran, which
likely will post sharply lower earnings on a pro forma basis
because of merger expenses.
   Midwest banks that took large loan-loss provisions and
incurred losses in the year-earlier fourth quarter -- PNC
Financial Corp., Mellon Bank Corp. and CoreStates Financial
Corp. -- likely will report positive earnings.
   On the other hand, West Coast banks are expected to take
the biggest hits against earnings as a result of the weak
real estate market. Because of anticipated large loan-loss
provisions, First Interstate Bancorp. and Security Pacific
Corp., which plans to merge with BankAmerica Corp. next
month, are expected to report losses of about 50 cents a
share and 43 cents a share, respectively. Wells Fargo  Co.
already announced last month it would post a loss of $4.60 a
share.
   Credit problems, combined with a slowdown in loan demand,
also likely hurt BankAmerica, whose earnings, it's estimated,
fell to about $1.14 a share from $1.28 a year earlier.