Doctors Stress
   Size Not Risks
   To a 'Patient'
   ----
   By Jane Berentson
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
These doctors are taking the Food and Drug Administration
moratorium on silicone-gel implants to heart. Even though I
suggested I would consider a silicone-gel implant in spite of
the risks, all the doctors said they now offer only saline
implants. Saline implants -- basically silicone bags filled
with salt water -- haven't been restricted by the FDA.
   The doctors or their aides did solicit questions and
review some potential hazards. All mentioned the possibility
of deflation -- some used the trauma of a car wreck as a
potential cause -- and said that another operation would then
be necessary. All noted that the bag can leak, again making
more surgery necessary. They said the body absorbed the
saline without risk. One pointed out that the bag could
wrinkle, which could be felt by the patient; several
suggested there could be loss of nipple sensitivity; all said
that some hardening of the breast could occur, but that this
was less frequent with saline than with silicone gel.
   The medical care in these offices is accompanied by a
healthy dose of salesmanship. Their ambiance is more beauty
parlor than doctor's office, with mirrors everywhere and
plenty of good-looking assistants, one of whom helpfully
opened her blouse, unhooked her bra and pointed out the
barely visible scar from her own saline-implant surgery. The
first question asked in one office was, "When would you like
to schedule surgery?" The central question in each office
was: "How large are you thinking of becoming?" (The most
common answer, one doctor said, is "a C cup.")
   One doctor suggested that I might like to look at a
Victoria's Secret underwear catalog and bring in a picture of
my dream breasts.
   But even in the current atmosphere of confusion and
concern, none of the doctors told me that the FDA has warned
that saline implants can interfere with mammography, impeding
the early detection of breast cancer. None of them offered me
manufacturers' information pamphlets on the implants. None
mentioned the FDA's observation that ". . . since both types
of implants {silicone-gel and saline} have a silicone rubber
envelope, an increased risk of autoimmune diseases or cancer
is possible even for the saline-filled implants."
   (See related article: "Informed Consent? Plastic Surgeons
Had Warnings on Safety Of Silicone Implants --- But Absent
Formal Study, Many Ignored Reports In Journals and Elsewhere
--- A Manufacturer's Concerns" -- WSJ March 12, 1992)