Morgan Stanley,
   Lennar to Buy
   Thrift Assets
   ----
   By Neil Barsky
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
At a price of about 50% of book value, the sale is
consistent with the pricing of other RTC sales. But its size
sends a disquieting reminder to the real estate industry
about how much values have dropped over the past several
years. With banks still locked in a struggle with regulators
over how to value their real estate loans, the transaction
suggests that further writedowns of bad real estate loans
will likely still be necessary.
   The AmeriFirst portfolio includes everything from
performing loans on multifamily developments to raw land.
General Electric Co. unit Kidder Peabody  Co. acted as the
RTC's adviser.
   Officials at Morgan Stanley, Lennar, the RTC and Kidder
Peabody all declined to comment. The RTC does not usually
comment on a transaction until the deal closes, which still
could be months away.
   The bulk sale is part of the RTC strategy of attracting
investors by selling a mixture of strong and weak assets in
the same pool. Last fall, in its largest sale ever, the
savings and loan clean-up agency sold a portfolio of all
types of real estate loans to General Electric and Robert
Bass Group for $527 million.
   For Morgan Stanley, a unit of Morgan Stanley Group Inc.,
the acquisition represents a bold entry into the tricky world
of investing in depressed real estate. Last year, the firm
raised about $800 million in equity, including more than $50
million of its own money, and launched the Morgan Stanley
Realty Fund. Since then, however, the fund has not closed on
a single major real estate deal, raising the question of
whether the firm raised the money prematurely.
   With its acquisition of the AmeriFirst portfolio, however,
Morgan Stanley has sent a signal that it believes that, in
some markets at least, the time is ripe for acquiring
property.
   Other "vulture" investors who have raised money to buy
distressed real estate include units of General Electric, the
Bass brothers, Goldman Sachs  Co., SunAmerica, Merrill Lynch
 Co. and Sam Zell.
   Morgan Stanley's partner, Lennar Corp. is Florida's
largest homebuilder. Despite a terrible Florida housing
market, Lennar has shown consistently strong earnings. In New
York Stock Exchange trading yesterday, shares of Lennar
closed down 12.5 cents at $24.50, well above its 52-week low
of $9.25.
   Lennar is expected to manage the vast pool of assets and
provide some of the project equity. Morgan Stanley is
believed to be supplying the majority of the equity, though
it is unclear whether the partnership will use RTC financing
or outside financing.
   A person familiar with the transaction said the AmeriFirst
portfolio is actually seven separate pools of assets that
reflect the odd mix of real estate investing many thrifts
embarked on in the 1980s. One consists of performing loans
made to multifamily projects, another to performing
commercial loans, and three pools consist of commercial
nonperforming or subperforming loans. The sixth pool consists
of land, and the seventh is business loans backed by various
types of real estate.