International:
   World Wire
   ----
   Compiled by Richard L. Holman
Western German economic growth will slow to about 1.5% to
2% this year, while inflation, now about 4%, will run at a 4%
to 4.5% rate, a survey of seven German research institutes
shows.
   Eastern German growth and productivity will be in double
digits, the German Economic Institute of Cologne said without
elaborating. But even such a large advance would be from a
low base, given the east's economic collapse after the
country's October 1990 reunification.
   Government and private economists expect growth in Western
Germany's gross national product to have slowed to 3% last
year from 4.5% in 1990, partly because exports declined.
   The institute warned that the German business investment
climate this year will worsen. Spending on plant and
equipment is predicted to increase 3% to 4% this year,
following a 10% rise last year.
                                                                                                       

   VLADIVOSTOK OPENS TO SHIPPING
                                                                                                       

   A Vietnamese freighter became the first foreign vessel in
more than three decades to dock freely in Vladivostok after
the Russian Far East seaport was opened Wednesday to
international traffic. Foreigners now also may visit the
city, near the border with China and North Korea. The
strategic port on the Sea of Japan, a terminus of the
trans-Siberian railway, long served as a naval base for the
defunct Soviet Union's Pacific Fleet, and foreign ships
couldn't enter without special permission.
                                                                                                       

   THAILAND WRESTLES WITH NEW TAX
                                                                                                       

   Thailand's government may have state enterprises defer
price increases, after a 7% value added tax that was
introduced Wednesday left the business community and the
public confused. Consumers fear businesses will pass the
entire tax on to them. The system, which collects taxes on
goods and services at each step of production or
distribution, was implemented to widen the tax base and
facilitate exports. Bangkok contends the VAT will be simpler
and cut tax rates overall. But some businesses planned to
boost prices to tide them over until they receive other tax
refunds.
                                                                                                       

   SUEZ CANAL TRANSIT TOLLS RAISED
                                                                                                       

   Suez Canal tolls were increased between 11% and 18%. The
new levies, which vary by vessel type, could boost annual
transit revenue 6.4% to $2 billion. A four-year project will
begin this year to deepen the canal, a key route for Persian
Gulf nations' exports of crude oil and petroleum products to
Europe. The new 68-foot depth will allow passage by any
vessel in the world. The resulting additional business is
expected to increase revenue 25% for the canal, one of
Egypt's main foreign-exchange earners.
                                                                                                       

   PERU'S INFLATION DROPS SHARPLY
                                                                                                       

   Peru's inflation rate braked to 139.2% last year from
7,650% in 1990. After falling to 4% in both October and
November, inflation last month ran at 3.7%, the lowest
monthly rate since the 3.6% in December 1986. Since taking
office in July 1990, President Alberto Fujimori has taken
drastic steps to heal Peru's shattered economy, removing
price controls and subsidies, lowering trade barriers,
freeing the foreign-exchange market, selling state-owned
businesses and slashing government spending. He predicted
inflation would fall to 40% this year.
                                                                                                       

   AUSTRALIAN BUSINESS FAILURES
                                                                                                       

   The number of corporate insolvencies in Australia
continued a shrinking trend in month-to-month comparisons,
amid the country's attempts to wrench its way out of a severe
economic recession. The Australian Securities Commission said
in its latest report that business failures in November
declined to 606 from 653 in October, 693 in September, 739 in
August and 1,013 in July.
                                                                                                       

   OPTIMISM OF NATIONS WEIGHED
                                                                                                       

   Argentines are the most optimistic people world-wide about
prospects for this year, according to a Gallup Poll published
in Rio de Janeiro.
   Argentina's rating of 52, on whether this year will be
better than 1991, stemmed from the country's successful
economic plan privatizing industries and pegging its currency
to the dollar.
   Israel was next in the survey with a rating of 37,
followed by Denmark, 35; the U.S. and Taiwan, both with 30;
Mexico, 29; Australia, 28; Sweden, 27; Chile and Britain,
both at 25; France, 24; Italy, 21; Portugal, 17; Spain, 13;
Japan, 8; and South Africa, 5.
   Pessimists, with rankings in negative territory, included
Brazil, Eastern European nations, the former Soviet Union,
Greece, Finland, Costa Rica, the Netherlands, Uruguay, India,
Switzerland, Belgium and Luxembourg.
                                                                                                       

   POSTSCRIPTS . . .
                                                                                                       

   Legislators in Iran blocked a sweeping anti-smoking bill
for the second time. The measure would have phased out the
import and sale of cigarettes over seven years, banned
smoking in public and government spaces, and given nonsmokers
priority for civil service posts. Lawmakers said the bill
didn't provide for revenue to substitute for lost cigarette
taxes. . . . Bangladesh ordered all licensed firearms to be
turned in to authorities by Jan. 15 and said it would then
crack down on illegal arms in a bid to halt rising violence.
. . . Most French ports' cargo operations were paralyzed by a
48-hour strike that began yesterday, the fourth walkout since
November when the government proposed a reorganization that
could cause big job cuts for longshoremen.