International:
   World Wire
   ----
   Compiled by Richard L. Holman
South African mineral rights will be privatized this year
under legislation that takes effect today. The new Minerals
Act eliminates the state's exclusive right to mine and
dispose of all precious metals, precious stones and natural
oil.
   Mineral rights holders no longer must lease rights from
the state but can own them by getting a government permit.
New ventures must obtain a prospecting permit or mining
authorization. Existing operations are allowed two years to
shift to the permit system.
   The Chamber of Mines, which represents South African
mining firms, said that although the government has given up
its exclusive rights, sudden changes in the market aren't
expected. The group said the new system gives the government
more control over all mining activities, because the permit
requirements are stricter than previous controls.
   The law allows the government to impose stringent
environmental, safety and health rules, and stipulates wider
union participation to ensure worker safety.
                                                                                                       

   PAKISTAN NUCLEAR DEAL FOR CHINA
                                                                                                       

   Beijing has agreed to build a nuclear power plant in
Pakistan, its second. China, in its new disclosure about its
usually secret nuclear-technology transfers, didn't specify
the cost of the 300,000-kilowatt plant in Chasma, designated
for peaceful purposes. Pakistani reports said it wouldn't
exceed $500 million. Last month, China disclosed nuclear
equipment deals with Syria and Iran. Western countries have
expressed concern about China's sales of nuclear technology
and equipment with potential military uses to Third World
countries.
                                                                                                       

   ARGENTINA GETS NEW CURRENCY
                                                                                                       

   The peso, Argentina's fifth currency in 22 years, replaced
the austral, which inflation made virtually worthless. Both
currencies will be accepted until the switch is complete. One
peso is valued at 10,000 australs -- equal to $1. In effect,
the peso knocked four zeros off the austral. One austral was
valued at $1.25 when that unit was introduced in June 1985.
                                                                                                       

   TAIWAN LAWMAKING ERA ENDS
                                                                                                       

   In retiring from Taiwan's Parliament, 82 elderly
Nationalist Party lawmakers who were elected to office in
China 44 years ago ended an era. The Legislative Yuan
deputies had been targets of pro-democracy demonstrations
since Taiwan ended 38 years of martial-law rule in 1987. In
1949, after the Nationalists lost the mainland civil war to
Communist forces, 550 China-elected legislators fled to
Taiwan with Gen. Chiang Kai-shek, who kept them in office to
ensure the island party's monopoly on power and attempt to
legitimize its claim as the rightful Chinese government.
                                                                                                       

   SINGAPORE'S GROWTH MAY EASE
                                                                                                       

   Singapore's economic growth will ease to 5% this year from
6.5% last year because of wealthy nations' economic slowdown,
Prime Minister Goh Chok Tong said. Growth in other Asian
countries would help the island's trade and tourism, Mr. Goh
said. Singapore's gold and foreign-exchange reserves last
Sept. 30 totaled $32.9 billion, up 15% from a year earlier.
The city-state needs large reserves to pay for needed
imports, including food, oil and clothing, and as a safety
net to prop up its economy should a prolonged world recession
cut Singapore's exports and boost unemployment, he said.
                                                                                                       

   BEIJING, SEOUL SIGN TRADE PACT
                                                                                                       

   China and South Korea have signed a trade agreement giving
most-favored nation treatment to each other's exports.
   The accord is expected to result in sharply increased
bilateral trade, which has been hampered by high Chinese
surcharges on South Korean products. Their trade last year
was estimated at more than $5 billion, with China logging a
surplus of about $2.5 billion.
   As the two countries don't have formal relations, the
Beijing office of Korea Trade Promotion Corp. serves as a de
facto diplomatic mission to deal with the China Chamber of
International Commerce. The Seoul agency predicted that
aviation and investment guarantee accords would be concluded
this year.
   Both sides hope to open flights between Seoul and Tianjin,
a Chinese port city. South Korean flights into Beijing aren't
expected without diplomatic ties, still years off, as China
doesn't want to embarrass its ally, North Korea.
                                                                                                       

   POSTSCRIPTS . . .
                                                                                                       

   The Swedish shipping company Sealink Stena, citing
financial losses, closed its English Channel ferry service
that has been operated between Folkestone, England, and
Boulogne, France, for 148 years. About 1,000 jobs in both
ports were lost. . . . The Ukraine, to win financial backing
for the former Soviet republic's transition to capitalism,
applied to join the International Monetary Fund and the World
Bank. Other new members of the Commonwealth of Independent
States are expected to apply soon.