Senate Clears Bill to Restore Regulation
   Of Cable TV Rates, Foster Competition
   ----
   By Mary Lu Carnevale
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
In arguing for the bill, Sen. Howard Metzenbaum (D.,
Ohio), summed up the concern of many senators: "Cable is an
industry accountable neither to competition nor regulation."
Since 1987, when the industry was largely deregulated,
monthly rates have soared nearly 60% nationwide, and rates
have more than doubled in many areas.
   Heartened by the Senate vote, Chairman Edward Markey of
the House telecommunications subcommittee said his panel will
take up cable legislation by mid-March. Just what the House
bill will look like is uncertain. Rep. Markey has introduced
the same bill that cleared the House in the last Congress.
The earlier bill, which wasn't opposed by the cable industry,
would have done little to curb rate increases and contained
generally mild measures to aid competition. Mr. Markey would
like a tougher measure, but he also wants to build a
bipartisan consensus that could survive a presidential veto.
   The White House, concerned about a perception that
President Bush is unraveling Reagan-era deregulation, opposes
renewed rate regulation. Enacting the regulation measure "is
going to be tough," predicted Sen. John Danforth (R., Mo.),
an author of the legislation. "It is always hard to pass a
bill over the objections of the president."
   The vote put the cable industry on the defensive. James
Mooney, president of the National Cable Television
Association, called the bill "extreme," and said it "would
force cable subscribers' dollars to go to support CBS and
NBC, at the expense of cable channels like Discovery and
CNN."
   Sen. Danforth and others dismissed the industry's
concerns. "I think it is the nature of the cable industry to
exaggerate and try to whip people up," Sen. Danforth said.
   The industry lobbied hard for an amendment that would have
gutted the bill's main provisions to control rate increases
and to spur competition. But the amendment was defeated
54-35.
   Cable companies contend that local regulation during the
1970s and early 1980s kept rates artificially low and that
customers have been receiving more and better cable
programming. Moreover, they argue, the government shouldn't
be in the business of setting rates for such cable fare as
MTV.
   The Senate bill would exempt from rate regulation any
cable system that competes with another multichannel video
service. But for all others, the Federal Communications
Commission would be required to set rate guidelines for a
basic tier of cable service as well as signal converter boxes
and remote-control devices. State or local franchising
authorities then could get jurisdiction if they agree to
follow the FCC's guidelines.
   The measure would thwart any effort by cable systems to
skirt rate regulation by stripping popular cable programming
from their basic tier. Under the bill, if fewer than 30% of a
cable system's subscribers buy the basic service, the FCC
could regulate the next tier purchased by at least 30% of the
subscribers.
   In addition, the FCC could regulate rates for extended
basic service, which includes basic broadcast programs and
such cable programs as CNN or ESPN, if it receives complaints
of excessive rate increases.
   An amendment offered by Sen. Patrick Leahy (D., Vt.) would
open up a retail market for cable remote-control devices. The
provision requires cable systems to allow customers to buy
the devices from any retailer. It would also give customers
who don't receive scrambled channels the option of connecting
their cable directly to their televisions or video cassette
recorders. For those who receive scrambled premium channels,
only those signals would have to go through converter boxes.
   Another major provision would bar cable television
programmers, many of whom are owned or controlled by cable
operators, from refusing to sell programming to cable
industry rivals at fair prices. Beyond that, cable companies
couldn't require that they be given a financial interest in a
channel as a condition of carrying the channel
   The FCC would set limits on the number of subscribers to
any one cable company, and it would limit a cable company's
financial interest in programming carried on its local cable
systems.
   To encourage competition further, the bill also would bar
franchising authorities from setting up exclusive
arrangements with single cable companies.
   To address consumer complaints about shoddy service, the
bill would require the FCC to adopt customer service
standards and technical standards to ensure signal quality.