Law:
   High Court Sets Aside Death Sentence,
   Finding Violation of First Amendment
   ----
   By Paul M. Barrett
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The 8-1 decision shouldn't provide much solace to criminal
defendants, however. In an opinion written by Chief Justice
William Rehnquist, the high court stressed that the Delaware
prosecutor could have legitimately relied on the contested
evidence if he had made it more clear to the jury that
membership in the Aryan Brotherhood was relevant to the
defendant's crime, as opposed to showing his "abstract
beliefs." Both the defendant and his victim were white.
   Justice Clarence Thomas filed the lone dissent, contending
that the jury could have inferred the relevance of membership
in a racist prison gang to the question of the defendant's
character and potential dangerousness.
   The case involved the conviction of David Dawson for a
murder he committed after escaping from prison in December
1986. As constitutionally required before an execution is
ordered, the prosecutor sought to prove that "aggravating"
circumstances surrounding the killing outweighed "mitigating"
factors. Such evidence frequently includes the nature of the
defendant's character.
   Mr. Dawson objected to the prosecutor telling the jury
that he had the words "Aryan Brotherhood" tattooed on his
right hand, as well as to expert testimony about the group
and photographs of a swastika that Mr. Dawson had painted on
his cell wall. The prosecutor agreed to withhold the expert
testimony and presented instead a mutually agreed upon
description of the Aryan Brotherhood's origins and general
beliefs. After hearing the stipulation and other evidence,
the jury concluded that the aggravating evidence outweighed
the mitigating evidence and recommended the death penalty,
which the judge imposed.
   The defendant then appealed, and the Delaware Supreme
Court affirmed the death sentence. But the U.S. Supreme Court
set aside that decision, ordering the lower court to
reconsider the matter. Emphasizing the unusual facts of the
case, the high court said the prosecutor had failed to prove
the relevance of the disputed evidence by, for example,
demonstrating that the Aryan Brotherhood had committed
unlawful or violent acts. "Delaware might have avoided the
problem if it had presented evidence showing more than mere
abstract beliefs on Dawson's part," Chief Justice Rehnquist
wrote.
   The majority indicated to the Delaware Supreme Court that
upon reconsideration, the lower court could determine that
the admission of the Aryan Brotherhood evidence was a
"harmless error," therefore allowing reinstatement of the
death sentence. Another possibility would be for the state to
hold a new sentencing proceeding, including additional
evidence that the high court found lacking.
   Justice Thomas, in dissent, said that the jury could
properly infer from mere membership in a racist prison gang
that the defendant engaged in criminal or "deviant"
activities, which would be relevant to his character and
dangerousness. Justice Thomas objected that the majority had
distorted the First Amendment's guarantee of the right to
associate with others and, in so doing, tied the hands of
prosecutors. (Dawson vs. Delaware)
   In other action yesterday, the Supreme Court:
   -- Ruled that a federal appeals court in some
circumstances may affirm a sentence in which the trial court
departed from the federal sentencing guidelines for invalid,
as well as valid, reasons. But the justices instructed
appeals courts to conduct an intensive review of challenges
to federal sentences. (Williams vs. U.S.)
   -- Agreed to decide whether police who participated in the
removal of a mobile home in an eviction may be sued for civil
damages by the home's owners under the Fourth Amendment's
protection against unreasonable searches and seizures.
(Soldal vs. Cook County, Ill.)