Technology  Medicine:
   Microsoft Leads
   California Police
   In Software Seizure
   ---
   Firm Turns to Criminal Law
   To Fight Counterfeiting
   And Its Drain on Revenue
   ----
   By Jim Carlton
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Chi Ming Robert Liu, 35 years old, president of the tiny
software distributor, and his sales manager, Karl Richard
Schlict, 53, were released on their own recognizance to
appear in a local court next month on criminal violations of
California trademark law. The two men, who, through a
spokesman, denied knowledge of counterfeiting, face prison
sentences of up to a year; Entech faces fines up to $100,000.
   The case marks the first time that Microsoft, based in
Redmond, Wash., has invoked criminal laws to prosecute
software piracy in the U.S. -- which is estimated to rob the
industry of as much as $14 billion annually. "The message
we're trying to send out is that . . . counterfeiting is a
criminal offense and that the people who do it are criminals
and should be dealt with under the criminal law," said James
Lowe, a Microsoft corporate attorney for domestic piracy.
   Many who have studied software piracy actually conclude
that companies such as Microsoft do benefit in the long-run
from copying, because it is a form of free advertising. And
customers who grow attached to a piece of copied software
often buy future legal versions of the program.
   Nevertheless, the Software Publishers Association, an
industry trade group in Washington, launched an anti-piracy
program three years ago in which it has filed more than 100
lawsuits against suspected software pirates.
   Counterfeiting is the most extreme of three basic forms of
piracy; the other two involve both people and corporations
making illicit copies of software for individual and company
use, respectively.
   Acting on a tip from an informant, Microsoft investigators
obtained a sample of what they termed an illegally labeled
MSDOS 5 product sold by Entech at a "suspiciously low price."
After a month-long probe, police and Microsoft investigators
on Thursday bought 3,000 copies of the suspected counterfeit
software for $84,000, and then raided the Entech warehouse.