OTC Focus:
   Composite Index Breaks Through 600
   And No Slowing in Momentum Is Noted
   ----
   By Dave Pettit
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
"There is new money constantly coming into the market.
They go down but when you get them to a price, buyers step
right in," said Charles Howley, manager of OTC trading at
Soundview Financial Group.
   Such was the case yesterday morning. The market slipped
more than two points early on a brief bout of profit-taking.
But stocks soon recovered as buyers reemerged and by midday
the Nasdaq Composite Index traded above the 600 level for the
first time.
   At the close, the Nasdaq index was up 4.39, or 0.73%, to
602.29 -- its 11th consecutive daily closing advance and the
longest sustained climb since last January following the
start of the U.S.-led military action against Iraq.
   The current run-up, though, hasn't been as powerful as
1991's streak. While the market has now gained 12.7% since
its last losing day on Dec. 19, during last year's 11session
rally, it rose 15.9%.
   Trading activity was extremely brisk again. National
Market System volume reached 220,730,000 shares, the third
highest on record. On Monday, a heavy 208,550,000 shares
changed hands.
   "People have a sense of urgency to buy stocks," said Steve
Bliss, head of OTC trading at Mabon Securities Corp.
"Institutions keep buying to keep up with inflow of investor
money," he said.
   Robert O'Toole Sr., head of Nasdaq institutional sales at
Lehman Brothers, said he is confident the Nasdaq market will
continue to advance. "There is so much momentum, there is so
much buying power and there is no stock for sale," he said.
   Soundview Financial's Mr. Howley, however, said he saw
more profit-taking yesterday than in prior recent sessions,
signaling that the rally is losing strength. Because of that
downward pressure, he said, "For stocks to go higher now it
will take a little more volume."
   Meanwhile, the market's breadth narrowed somewhat. While
gainers led decliners nearly 2-to-1 Monday and Friday,
yesterday's advancing issues outpaced decliners by just
1,228-to-919.
   Centex Telemanagement fell 3 3/4 to 19 3/4 after analysts
made negative comments. Smith Barney, Harris Upham's L. Keith
Mullins removed the stock from that firm's "Emerging Growth
Stock Focus List," citing concern about the stock's high
valuation. Mr. Mullins, though, maintained a "buy" rating.
Separately, Merrill Lynch analyst Joseph Bellace trimmed his
1992 earnings projection for the company by three cents a
share, to 80 cents.
   Advanced Logic Research plunged 2 to 8 after estimating
that its net for the first quarter, ended last month, was
substantially below the 31 cents a share it earned a year
ago. The company cited higher operating expenses and lower
gross margins. Revenue for the quarter reached about $48
million, off from the $49.8 million it recorded a year
earlier.
   Intel gained 2 1/4 to 51 1/2. Intel said that according to
a Dataquest study, it has topped Motorola as the largest U.S.
manufacturer of semiconductors, as measured by estimated 1991
North American revenue. Dataquest, a unit of Dun 
Bradstreet, is a San Jose, Calif., market research concern.
   Borland International lost 1 3/4 to 78 1/4. Donaldson,
Lufkin  Jenrette analyst Scott Smith reduced his earnings
estimates for the software concern. The stock fell 3 1/4
Monday after other analysts did the same. Mr. Smith, in part,
cited concerns about a possible delay in the introduction of
new versions of Borland's spreadsheet and database software
products.
   Bioplasty eased 7/8 to 4 3/4 following the Food and Drug
Administration's request Monday for a moratorium on the use
of silicone-gel breast implants. Shares of Bioplasty and
other makers of the implants resumed trading yesterday
morning after lengthy halts Monday. Among them, Mentor Corp.
closed with a gain of 1/2 to 12 3/4. Mentor lost 2 on Monday
before the trading suspension.
   Liposome gained 2 1/4 to 21 3/4. The company told
institutional investors at the Hambrecht  Quist Life
Sciences conference that the Food and Drug Administration has
lifted a hold that has delayed clinical trials of the
company's ABLC Antifungal drug. More than 140 companies were
scheduled to appear at the three-day conference, which ends
today.
   DNA Plant Technology jumped 4 to 8 1/2. A joint venture
between the company and Du Pont made an agreement to sell a
new form of canola oil to an Anheuser-Busch snack food
business. The companies have touted the oil as healthful
because of its relatively low saturated fat content.
   Sun Television advanced 1 1/2 to 17 after it reported net
income of 19 cents a share for its third quarter, ended Nov.
30. A year ago, the Columbus, Ohio, consumer electronics
retailer earned 13 cents a share. Analysts surveyed by First
Call, a unit of Thomson Financial Networks, had expected
latest-quarter earnings to reach just 15 cents.
   Salick Health Care gained 1 1/4 to 13 1/2. It recorded
earnings of 23 cents a share for its first quarter, ended
Nov. 30, up from 19 cents in the year-ago period. The
outpatient dialysis and cancer-treatment center operator's
revenue rose to $20.8 million from $16.4 million.
   Summit Health gained 1 to 6 3/4. The Burbank, Calif.,
company said it will resume paying its two-cent quarterly
dividend, which it hasn't paid since July 1988.
   ---
   NASD P.R.: Robert Ferri was named director of media
relations for the National Association of Securities Dealers,
which operates and monitors the computerized OTC stock
market. Mr. Ferri, 37 years old, has been with the NASD for
three years and succeeds Enno Hobbing, who retired Jan. 1
after 16 years with the NASD. Mr. Ferri formerly was manager
of press relations for the late U.S. Sen. John Heinz of
Pennsylvania; previously he was a columnist and reporter in
the Washington bureau of Thomson Newspapers Inc.