Japan's Crash Will Open Its Economy
   ----
   By Akio Mikuni
In order to prevent the dollar falling lower than the U.S.
authorities wanted in the late 1980s, Japan kept its interest
rates very low. Cheap money sent the share prices of large
corporations flying and financed astronomical increases in
the price of land. The huge capital gains realized by the
owners of assets, especially land, helped to cushion the pain
of those industries, which had been hit hard by the sharp yen
appreciation since 1985. The public at large, however, was
only antagonized by the bubble, which priced it out of the
housing market.
   Then the bubble popped. The Nikkei stock index has fallen
from nearly 40,000 at the end of 1989 to some 23,600; land
prices in downtown Tokyo are down by 30% from their peaks --
in hard-hit Osaka, by 50%. Worse is probably still to come:
The average yield of the Tokyo Stock Exchange is only 0.7%.
Gross returns on office and apartment buildings average less
than 3%.
   The swelling of the bubble was made possible by the power
the Japanese government exercised over the financial system,
a power that was a relic of the years of reconstruction after
World War II. In the postwar years, credit was scarce and was
rationed under the guidance of the government to favored
industries. In return, the government gave the issuers of
credits, principally the big "city" banks, assurances that
their loans would not be permitted to fail. Japan followed a
policy of the "socialization of credit risk."
   But when they permitted the bubble to create enormous
amounts of credit in the latter half of 1980s, largely in
order to prop up the U.S. dollar, the financial authorities
unintentionally threw away the power to guide the issuers of
credit. Debt became too abundant to be centrally controlled.
The debts of non-financial institutions, government and
households amounted to $8.5 trillion in 1989, up from $3.4
trillion in 1979.
   This super-abundance of debt has left Japan's big banks in
unprecedentedly weak condition. Many speculators in land and
stocks, for instance, are now in financial difficulties. It
might seem that these difficulties would pose few dangers to
the banks, because Japanese banks refused for the most part
to lend to speculators. The banks did, however, lend to
Japan's peculiar "non-bank banks." In fact, they made sure
that the non-bank banks had no choice but to borrow from
them: Under pressure from the banks, the political system had
denied non-bank banks direct access to the capital markets.
So it is only a matter of time before the problem loans at
the nonbank banks are passed on to banks one way or another.
   So will the problems at large manufacturing companies,
which have been major beneficiaries of the socialization of
credit risk. These companies expanded domestic and overseas
capacity during the stock market boom, in the belief that the
cost of funds was negligible, or even negative. Their
earnings are, therefore, more susceptible than ever to a
decline in demand. And demand looks likely to decline, as the
U.S. market becomes more protected against Japanese products,
and as the persistent trade surplus produces a higher yen. My
own projection is that liabilities of corporate bankruptcies
will rise from $15 billion in 1990 and $60 billion last year
to $100 billion in each of the following three years.
   The bankers are counting on two expedients to get them
through this turmoil. First, they hope to realize substantial
unrealized capital gains in shares as well as land they hold
directly or indirectly through their affiliates. This hope
may be less sturdy than the bankers realize: The value of
those holdings is no longer manipulated by the financial
system. Now that values are subject to the free market,
however, it is not clear that they will maintain their
present values should the banks begin to sell their assets on
any large scale.
   If, however, the expedient works, it will only hasten the
demise of central control of the Japanese economy. The sale
of bank-owned securities will bring to an end the Japanese
pattern of interlocking shareownership. When corporations are
no longer substantially owned by banks, they will be more
inclined to raise capital directly through bonds and
commercial paperfunds, resulting in a more efficient and
liberalized capital market.
   Alternatively, banks can boost their profits by increasing
spreads on loans. That, however, will make it more difficult
for them to keep deposit rates at an artificially low level.
What will make it even harder is that, with the fall in asset
prices reducing government revenues from taxes on capital
gains and land, Japanese depositors may soon lose a tax break
that has traditionally reconciled them to low interest rates.
In Japan, interest income has been taxed at the rate of 20%,
and separately from ordinary income, which is taxed at
steeply progressive rates at higher income levels. Therefore,
those who have large deposits are not so sensitive to
interest rate levels. If that tax break vanishes, and there
are indications that it will, depositors will care a lot more
about the rate they get.
   More than anything else, it is the government's revenue
needs that will doom Japan's old cartelized financial system.
The slump in asset values may reduce government income by as
much as $100 billion, leading to a large fiscal deficit over
the next few years.
   That deficit will have to be financed by the sale of
government bonds. The government is raising funds in the
capital market in direct competition with the banks'
securities as well as deposits. Because banks' deposits are
not implicitly guaranteed by the government any longer,
banks' credit risks are higher than the government, and bank
deposits costs are higher than government's bond yields
assuming the rest of terms set identical. Nor are Japan's
banks now capable of absorbing many of the bonds themselves.
An efficient capital market for government bonds will
therefore develop outside the banking system.
   The great Japanese bubble of 1985-1989 was the last and
most impressive display of the power of the cartelized and
government-manipulated Japanese financial system. For good or
for bad, that system has now come to its end.
   ---
   Mr. Mikuni is president of Tokyo-based Mikuni  Co., the
only independent credit rating agency in Japan.