RTC Chief Renews
   White House Plea
   For More Funding
   ----
   By Paulette Thomas
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
"Unless a group of very large thrifts go," Mr. Casey said,
the $55 billion represents "the end of the SL crisis.
Seriously."
   In sales of assets from failed SLs, the agency is
currently recouping about 90% of their book value, Mr. Casey
said, because the more easily marketed assets have sold
first. The RTC expects the prices it receives to fall to
about 60% of book value by the time the cleanup is completed.
The overall bailout cost is still expected to be roughly $230
billion, not including hundreds of billions in interest
costs.
   But several financial and accounting issues that arose in
the hearing yesterday aptly illustrated why Congress
attempted to streamline the bailout in recent legislation and
why it is reluctant to grant additional funds. For example,
Mr. Casey and his top lieutenants all professed ignorance of
the fact that the Treasury Department had sought permission
to increase temporary borrowing authority for the agency by
$35 billion, to $160 billion. These are funds the agency
expects to recoup through asset sales. The RTC now contends
the increase in temporary borrowing is unnecessary.
   Mr. Casey also said the agency is trying to unravel a $7
billion discrepancy in the books at its Western region that
occurred last year when many big SLs were seized and their
assets sold. Two ledger systems, a regional and national one,
didn't match, a spokesman said.
   "The field staff knew what the numbers should have been,
but the computer numbers didn't agree with what we knew was
there," a spokesman said. "But the money and assets were not
lost," he said. The agency said, too, that it was
investigating how the RTC selected the contractor who did the
accounting work.
   Mr. Casey said he doubted the GAO would complete the 1991
financial audit of the agency by April, as Banking Committee
Chairman Sen. Donald Riegle (D., Mich.) asked. Sen. Riegle
countered, "I don't want you asking for more money if we
can't have numbers for 1991."