Bank of Boston,
   Shawmut End
   Merger Talks
   ---
   Banks' Improved Outlooks,
   Management Conflicts
   Scuttle the Combination
   ----
   By Ron Suskind
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
"Our financial performance here has continued to improve,"
noted Shawmut Chairman Joel B. Alvord, who said the bank's
improving condition was the key reason for pulling out of the
merger. "We're going to focus on the marketplace and
customers. There are challenges but also great opportunities
here in New England."
   The merger would have created the largest bank in New
England, with $55 billion in assets, compared with Fleet
Norstar Financial Group Inc.'s $45.4 billion.
   Analysts had said that the two banks, which have been
weakened by the recession and large losses from bad real
estate loans, might have recovered faster than they now are
expected to if they had combined operations to sharply pare
costs and had raised fresh capital. With the region's economy
bottoming out, both should be able to survive as independent
institutions, although their recoveries may be slow.
   The two banks cleared a major obstacle to the merger in
December when each bank's accountants passed favorable
judgment on the other's loan portfolio. "All major issues
{were} settled as of last week," said a person involved in
the talks.
   But people say the breakdown occurred after a meeting on
Jan. 8 between Mr. Alvord and Bank of Boston's chairman and
chief executive, Ira S. Stepanian, who was slated to run the
merged bank. Rather than Mr. Alvord being chairman with some
executive powers for a year, Mr. Stepanian proposed that Mr.
Alvord be a non-executive chairman -- giving him no power
over the bank's operating decisions -- and that he leave
after only about six months; Mr. Alvord's compensation
wouldn't have changed. There was also discussion about a
diminished role for other Shawmut executives. After the
encounter, Mr. Alvord canceled meetings set up for last
Friday with regulators in Washington to present final terms
of the proposed merger.
   Both banks' officials declined to discuss details of the
negotiations over the management of the combined banks.
However, Mr. Stepanian said, "The basis on which we were
prepared to go forward with the proposed acquisition
apparently was found unacceptable to Shawmut."
   One person close to the Shawmut team said that the banks'
latest joint proposal offered to regulators in December, to
back the merger by raising $750 million in capital, would
have "diluted Shawmut stock so much that this would have been
a low-risk, low-reward deal, giving away Shawmut very cheap.
If you believe you've turned the corner, as Shawmut does,
that's not a deal you want to do."
   Both banks' stocks rose, in part because shareholders now
won't face the dilution of their shares. Bank of Boston was
up $1.375 at $14.75 a share, and Shawmut was up 25 cents at
$10.375, in late New York Stock Exchange trading. Other New
England bank stocks generally rose as well, because of
comments by Shawmut and Bank of Boston about the ability to
improve performance in the regional economy.
   Marriage talks between the two banks began last summer,
shortly after Fleet Norstar Financial Group bought the failed
Bank of New England. At that time, Bank of Boston and Shawmut
were both posting heavy losses and were uncertain about
whether an economic recovery would arrive soon.
   In the third quarter, however, Shawmut and Bank of Boston
posted small profits, and both banks have said they expect to
post fourth quarter profits as well.
   Analysts say, however, that the recovery could be rocky.
"It's too soon to say these banks have turned the corner and
are cruising back to recovery," says Gerard Cassidy, an
analyst with Tucker, Anthony Inc. "Fumbling around is
probably more accurate."
   Lower interest rates have been a major factor in improving
the banks' profits. Interest rate cuts have reduced the
banks' cost of funds faster than regional competition has
brought down rates charged to customers, giving a short-term
boost to profit margins, analysts note.
   "Bank of Boston, clearly the stronger of the two, now will
be helped by not having to focus on this albatross of the
Shawmut deal," said Frank J. Barkocy, an analyst with Advest
Inc. "At best, Shawmut is looking at a mediocre situation for
at least a year. I think they remain of ongoing concern to
regulators."
   At the end of the third quarter, Bank of Boston, with $32
billion in assets, had $1.97 billion in nonperforming assets,
a level virtually unchanged in 1991. That total included $255
million in restructured loans with an average interest rate
of 8%.
   Shawmut, based in Hartford, Conn., has $22.8 billion in
assets. It had $1.64 billion in nonperforming assets at the
end of the third quarter, which is nearly 12% of total loans.