Autos:
   Court Decision
   Aids Opponents
   Of Rules on Fuel
   ----
   By Laurie McGinley
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The standards' opponents, which include the auto makers,
argue that the rules lead to a downsizing of cars and a
decrease in safety, and result in consumers' having fewer
large cars to choose from. While the court's decision
probably won't lead to sweeping changes to fuel-economy
standards, it will become ammunition by those fighting future
congressional efforts to toughen standards.
   Measures to increase the standards to 40 mpg by 2001 are
pending in Congress, but prospects are dim considering the
financial plight of the U.S. auto industry. The Senate last
night passed an energy bill that doesn't contain a
gas-mileage provision.
   Yesterday's ruling involved a suit brought by Consumer
Alert and the Competitive Enterprise Institute, two groups
that promote free-market approaches to issues. The groups
sued the agency after then-Transportation Secretary Samuel
Skinner in May 1989 rejected a proposal to ease the standard
to 26.5 mpg for the 1990 model year.
   The court yesterday agreed with the groups that NHTSA
didn't meet the safety issue head-on, but instead "obscured
the safety problem." It ordered the agency to take another
look at the 1990 standards, and to either change them or come
up with better justification for its decision.
   Sam Kazman, an attorney for the competitive institute,
applauded the court's decision. "There's bloody irony in a
safety agency refusing to admit that one of its programs
kills people," he said. "For years, NHTSA denied CAFE's
lethal effect despite its own size-safety studies." CAFE
stands for corporate average fuel economy.
   The auto makers, meanwhile, said it was unclear what
effect the decision would have. "At the very least, this
decision emphasizes the importance of the trade off between
auto safety and CAFE," said William Noack, director of
communications for General Motors Corp.'s Washington office.
   David Kulp, Ford Motor Co.'s manager of fuel economy
compliance and planning, echoed the sentiment: "We've long
been concerned that the relationship between CAFE and safety
hasn't been explored."
   But Clarence Ditlow, executive director of the Center for
Auto Safety, disagreed. He said he was confident that the
NHTSA will be able to prove its case that the higher
fuel-economy standard doesn't affect safety.
   Mr. Ditlow has been a leading advocate of the
40-mile-per-gallon standard pushed by Sen. Richard Bryan (D.,
Nev.), but the NHTSA has fought the proposal, arguing that
such a big jump would result in smaller cars and reduce
safety.
   If the agency were to lower the 1990 standard
retroactively, it wouldn't affect the gas consumption of
those cars, which already are made and sold. But it could
give auto makers valuable credits that they could use against
future fuel-economy requirements. Car makers may accumulate
credits when they exceed the fuel-economy standards and use
them in subsequent years when they otherwise wouldn't comply
with the gas-mileage rules. In addition, the court ruling may
prompt the NHTSA to set lower gas-mileage standards in the
future.
   But the biggest impact is likely to be political; the
decision will be a weapon for those fighting tougher
gas-mileage standards. "Nothing in the record or in NHTSA's
analysis appears to undermine the inference that the 27.5 mpg
standard kills people," the court said, "although. . . we
can't rule out the possibility that NHTSA might support a
contrary finding."
   NHTSA officials haven't decided whether to appeal the
ruling, which was written by Judge Stephen Williams and
joined by Clarence Thomas, who was assigned to the appeals
court for one day to complete work that was interrupted by
his nomination to the Supreme Court. The CEI has challenged
the gas-mileage standards in the past, but yesterday is the
first time the organization has won.
   ---
   Neal Templin in Detroit contributed to this article.