Read His Lips: Bush
   Is Sorry for Breaking
   No-New-Tax Pledge
   ---
   President's Change of Heart
   Means He May Abandon
   1990 Budget Compromise
   ----
   By John Harwood and Michel McQueen
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
On Jan. 4, traveling in Singapore, when aides back in
Washington were reported to be reconsidering revising the
accord to allow defense spending cuts to be used to pay for a
tax cut, President Bush publicly squelched the idea.
   Even yesterday's new line doesn't renounce the budget
agreement as bad policy. Rather, Mr. Bush told an Atlanta
newspaper on the eve of the Georgia primary, he regrets the
deal because it has hurt him politically.
   "Look at all the flak it's taking," Mr. Bush told the
Atlanta Journal. In another interview with an Atlanta
television station, the president added, "Anytime you get
hammered on something, I guess you want to redo it."
   Mr. Bush offered his display of contrition in a series of
interviews as he struggled to blunt a GOP primary challenge
from conservative TV commentator Patrick Buchanan, who has
hammered him relentlessly for breaking the no-new-taxes
pledge.
   In remarks to reporters at the White House, Mr. Bush
explained that he struck the budget deal in the belief that
"this one compromise . . . would result in no more tax
increases," saying he is "very disappointed" that
Congressional Democrats are now proposing higher taxes.
   Vice President Dan Quayle nudged Mr. Bush in the direction
of apologizing for the budget agreement last week at a speech
before the Economic Club of New York when he said, "In 1990,
the President signed the Democratic Congress's tax increase,
and the country got a recession. This time, the President
will veto the Democratic Congress's tax increase and demand
that his jobs package be passed." But aides to Mr. Bush
insisted that he came to the decision to apologize for the
budget deal on his own. "It's what he thinks," said campaign
chairman Robert Teeter.
   One senior administration official explained that the
compromise with Congress was undercutting his ability to
blame Democrats for the bad economy. Moreover, Mr. Buchanan's
attacks on the violation of the no-new-taxes pledge also gave
him an opening to assail the president for his uncertain
support for an expanded income tax exemption for children.
   The senior official said that, although no decisions have
been reached, Mr. Bush's statement opened the possibility
that he will begin ignoring some constraints in the budget
deal following the March 20 deadline he has set for Congress
to pass his economic stimulus program. Mr. Bush might, for
example, assert more strongly than he has to date that
Pentagon budget savings should be used to finance tax cuts,
including the expanded children's exemption.
   The president left open the possibility, however, that he
might agree to some sort of tax increase yet again in a
compromise with Congress. While repeating his vow to veto
current Democratic tax proposals, he declined to rule out
accepting a "tax on millionaires" in return for a capital
gains tax cut.
   Mr. Bush echoed past statements from his predecessor,
Ronald Reagan, that the tax increases Mr. Reagan had agreed
to in 1982 had been the biggest mistake of his presidency.
   "I'd be glad to say the same thing," Mr. Bush told the
Atlanta Journal, explaining that the policy benefits of the
deal are "just overwhelmed by the fact that I went for a tax
increase. And it's political grief."