Law -- Legal Beat:
   Plaintiffs Challenge a Settlement
   That Enriches Only Their Lawyers
   ----
   By Jonathan M. Moses
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
But about a dozen members of the plaintiffs' class have
written to Justice Freedman, who is considering whether to
approve the pact, objecting to the settlement and urging her
not to agree to the attorney's fees. "The settlement's sole
purpose is to dramatically illustrate the unbelievable greed
which permeates every level of the legal profession in this
country," wrote Douglas DeBernard of Hayward, Calif., in one
such letter.
   Some of those objecting to the attorneys' fees are lawyers
themselves. "This is the kind of thing that gives attorneys a
bad rap," said Stephen M. Blitz, a Los Angeles lawyer
explaining why he wrote a letter objecting to the payment of
legal fees.
   The lawsuit, filed in 1990, named seven brokerage houses,
Bear Stearns  Co.; Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner  Smith
Inc.; Shearson Lehman Brothers Inc.; Prudential Securities
Inc.; PaineWebber Inc.; Gruntal  Co.; and Donaldson, Lufkin
 Jenrette Securities Corp. About one million people who held
margin accounts with their brokers from 1984 to 1990 were
included by the plaintiffs' lawyers in their class action.
   The suit involved margin accounts, under which customers
can borrow cash against securities in their portfolios. The
interest rate on such loans currently averages about 9%. The
plaintiffs' lawyers alleged that the practice of compounding
interest charges on margin accounts -- charging interest on
the credit and interest on outstanding interest -- violated
New York State law.
   The brokers countered that the interest-rate charges on
margin accounts, which are applied in a similar manner as
those of credit cards, are part of a longstanding policy well
understood by their customers. In addition, they said it was
completely lawful.
   Thousands of hours of legal work later, the lawyers for
both sides agreed to settle the suit without any resolution
of the legal issues involved. (In fact, the New York
Legislature recently clarified state law to make it clear
that compounding interest on margin accounts is legal.) The
defendants agreed to notify customers about the compound
interest rates, which at least two firms say they already do,
and to pay legal fees to the plaintiffs' attorneys.
   Fred Yager, a spokesman for Merrill Lynch parent Merrill
Lynch  Co., said the company decided to pay the legal fees
to avoid "further litigation expenses." He also said Merrill
Lynch has a longstanding practice to include a notice about
interest rate charges.
   "These cases illustrate the important and significant
contribution that consumer class litigation can achieve in
challenging an unlawful industrywide practice," the
plaintiffs' lawyers -- Mordecai Rosenfeld, who practices in
New York, and Jeanne P. Wrobleski, a member of the
Philadelphia firm Kohn, Klein, Nast  Graf -- wrote in court
papers urging Justice Freedman to approve the settlement.
Neither Mr. Rosenfeld nor Ms. Wrobleski returned phone calls
seeking comment.
   "The evidence is mixed" on whether class-action lawsuits
in the securities area get results, said Harvey J.
Goldschmid, a professor at Columbia University Law School.
Prof. Goldschmid said it's difficult to evaluate how much a
change in corporate practices, as opposed to a cash payment
to plaintiffs, is worth. But he added that if a lawsuit
results in nothing of value the judge shouldn't grant fees.
   ---
   VIRGIN AIR battles Virgin Atlantic Airways over use of
name.
   Virgin Air Inc., an airline operating in the Caribbean,
has asked a federal judge in Chicago to stop Virgin Atlantic
Airways, a London-based operation, from using the name
"Virgin." Virgin Air, based in St. Thomas, the Virgin
Islands, claims that Virgin Atlantic has infringed on its
trademark since 1985 and is engaging in unfair competition.
   The dispute is before Judge Elaine E. Bucklo in federal
court because negotiations between the companies broke down
and because the Department of Transportation discontinued its
decades-old practice of settling airline name disputes. Hal
Paris, a spokesman for the DOT, said that in 1988 the agency
"got out of the business because it was so time-consuming."
   Paul Wikander, president and owner of Virgin Air, said
that soon after Virgin Atlantic got off the ground in 1985,
he told the new airline's officials that he believed they
were violating federal trademark law by using the name that
he had used since 1970. Mr. Wikander also has asked the court
to award him all profits earned by Virgin Atlantic.
   Mr. Wikander said he has held back on opening a route to
Miami where Virgin Atlantic operates because he fears that
travelers will be confused. "We get their calls on our 800
number; we get their complaints, billings, reservations and
nasty letters about some of their advertisements," Mr.
Wikander said.
   Robert Alpert, a lawyer for Virgin Atlantic, said the
airline filed a motion Tuesday asking the judge to dismiss
the case or move it to federal court in New York.
   ---
   JUSTICE DEPARTMENT will get to look at reporter's phone
records.
   A federal district judge in Alexandria, Va., allowed a
subpoena of Bell Atlantic Corp. records for a freelance
journalist's phone calls. The reporter, Gregory J. Millman,
had cited nonpublic Internal Revenue Service documents in an
article for the trade publication Corporate Finance.
   Government employees who disclose tax return information
are committing a federal offense, an IRS spokeswoman said,
adding that the subpoena is part of a continuing criminal
investigation.
   Bell Atlantic is scheduled to turn over the phone records
this morning. Margaret Elliott, editor of Corporate Finance,
a unit of Financial World Partners, said the publication,
which had tried to block the subpoena, considered filing an
appeal but didn't have time. "And there were no new arguments
to put forward," she added.
   It's unusual, but not unheard of, for the government to
subpoena a journalist's phone records, said Jane Kirtley,
executive director of the Reporters Committee for Freedom of
the Press.
   ---
   POP STAR'S STEPFATHER sues for share of her earnings.
   Making claims more common to celebrity divorce cases,
Joseph Vian alleges that his stepdaughter, 21-year-old
recording star Mariah Carey, has a contractual obligation to
share her earnings with him because he helped her achieve
success.
   In the suit, filed in federal court in Manhattan, Mr. Vian
said he encouraged and supported Miss Carey in her pursuit of
a singing career by doing such things as providing
transportation to rehearsals and paying for dental work. Mr.
Vian also said in the suit that he and Miss Carey often
discussed his contributions to her career and that she
"promised that {Mr. Vian} would share in her financial
success, if any."
   Peter Parcher, an attorney for Miss Carey at the law firm
Parcher  Hayes in New York, said in a statement, "It is a
sad day when a talented young woman is subjected to a lawsuit
like this from her mother's estranged husband. In our
opinion, the case is totally without merit."
   Mr. Vian, of Lake Hiawatha, N.J., married Miss Carey's
mother, Patricia Carey, in April 1988. The singer's mother
sued Mr. Vian for divorce and the couple is currently
separated. In the suit, Mr. Vian also blamed the singer for
breaking up the marriage.
   Family-law attorneys said the suit seeks to extend the law
affecting celebrities and their ex-spouses into an
unprecedented area. Raoul Lionel Felder, a divorce attorney
in New York, said it is highly unlikely that a court will
find that a stepparent's relationship with a child
constitutes a contract. "I think it gives stepfathers a bad
name," he added.
   But Gary Skoloff, an attorney with Skoloff  Wolfe in
Livingston, N.J., said such a claim could depend on how much
time the stepparent devoted to the child's career. "If he
made her career his career, he deserves something," Mr.
Skoloff said.
   ---
   NOTED: Securities litigator James L. Truitt is leaving the
Dallas firm of Jackson  Walker to join the Dallas office of
Hutcheson  Grundy, a Houston-based firm that is trying to
broaden its practice areas after a decline in business from
the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp., a longtime client. Mr.
Truitt, 56 years old, represents former arbitrager Ivan F.
Boesky, a potential witness in Maxus Energy Corp.'s suit
against Kidder, Peabody  Co. He also represents Morgan
Stanley  Co. in a suit brought by investors in First
RepublicBank Corp.