Coke's Net Rose
   22% in Quarter;
   2-for-1 Split Set
   ---
   Firm Estimates 1992 Profit
   Will Increase 18% to 20%;
   Stock Price Jumps $5.625
   ----
   By Michael J. McCarthy
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
In the latest quarter, the company reported net income of
$358.4 million, or 54 cents a share, compared with $294.3
million, or 44 cents a share, last year. Pershare earnings in
the quarter included two gains and a charge that, taken
together, resulted in a gain of three cents. Revenue rose 13%
to $2.88 billion from $2.56 billion.
   While the results weren't much ahead of most analysts'
expectations, they did contrast sharply with the negative
announcements so prevalent among recession-ridden American
industry. And they did underscore Coca-Cola's ability to
maintain its earnings strength and its aggressive overseas
expansion despite difficult conditions globally and
domestically.
   The combination of the earnings increase and the planned
stock split drove Coca-Cola's stock to $77.125, up $5.625, on
volume of 2,505,200 shares in composite trading on the New
York Stock Exchange.
   Some analysts said they also considered the stock movement
an upward correction, because Coca-Cola's shares have been
sinking recently from their year-long high of $83.37, reached
earlier this month. Coca-Cola typically trades at a 20% to
60% premium to the market, said Allan Kaplan, an analyst with
Merrill Lynch Capital Markets. Yesterday's trading, he said,
returned Coke to about a 56% premium to the market.
   Given the recent softness in the company's stock, Mr.
Goizueta said "we'll be a little bit more aggressive" on
repurchasing the company's shares.
   The latest results didn't produce a lot of surprises. The
company's Latin American numbers were strong, which analysts
took as a bullish sign. For years, Coca-Cola has generated
healthy volume increases there, but not much in profits. Amid
new promotions and packaging, operating profit in Latin
American countries rose 35%, helped by strong sales in
Argentina.
   But total volume overseas, where the company generates the
bulk of its earnings, rose only 6% in 1991, less than the
company's target of 8% to 10%. Coke was hurt by poor economic
and weather conditions in various countries, analysts said.
Notably, in the big United Kingdom market, the company's
volume fell 11%.
   Coca-Cola posted a 19% gain in overseas operating profit
for the year. Coke benefited from solid gains in its most
lucrative markets, including Germany, where volume soared
18%, and in Japan, which had a 7% increase.
   The news was bright in the U.S. market. The company broke
out of its sluggish 1% to 2% growth rate during the first
three quarters, posting a fourth-quarter volume gain of 3%.
Coke said its 1991 volume grew 2.5%. The recession and a
dearth of new products to stimulate demand held growth to
1.8% in the $47 billion U.S. soda-pop market, according to
Beverage Digest, a trade newsletter. Coca-Cola said its U.S.
operating profit rose 15% in 1991, excluding nonrecurring
items.
   Mr. Goizueta also forecast stronger performance in the
U.S., with volume, as measured by case sales, rising 3.5% to
4% this year. And based on a recent acceleration in fountain
sales, Mr. Goizueta said he expects the nation's economy to
show "a slow recovery to start in the middle of the year or
so."
   As the biggest soft-drink supplier to the restaurant
industry, Coca-Cola's fountain trends can be a sensitive
economic barometer. As consumers gain confidence in the
economy, they tend to go out more to eat and order soft
drinks at drive-through windows more often, thus boosting
Coca-Cola's fountain sales.
   "When we have seen a pickup in our fountain business, it
usually occurs six to eight months before the whole economy
picks up," Mr. Goizueta said.
   For the Coca-Cola Foods division, basically the Minute
Maid orange juice business, operating profit grew 11% in
1991. With Coca-Cola's increasing focus on soft drinks,
particularly abroad, industry executives and stock analysts
have questioned the fit of the juice division. Some have
speculated that it will be sold.
   But Mr. Goizueta said there are no such plans. "That
business is doing very well. No sir, we love that orange
juice business. We finally turned that baby around."
   For all of 1991, Coca-Cola's net rose 17% to $1.62
billion, or $2.43 a share, from $1.38 billion, or $2.04 a
share. The company said non-recurring gains and charges in
1991 added about $5 million, or a penny a share, to full-year
earnings.
   Revenue for 1991 was $11.57 billion, up 13% from $10.24
billion in 1990.