Pepperell Group
   Is Suing Farley
   Over Takeover
   ---
   Kidder Peabody Is Among
   Those Seeking to Block
   Debt-for-Equity Swap
   ----
   By James P. Miller
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
In 1989, the Chicago investor acquired 95% of the textile
company through a $58-a-share tender offer that valued the
Georgia concern at $1.56 billion, but he ran into money
problems before he could buy up the remaining 5%.
   Together, the three plaintiffs hold about 245,000 of the
indicated approximately 1.5 million Pepperell shares still in
public hands. Those remaining shares continue to trade
publicly, albeit at a heavily discounted price in the low
$30s.
   In New York Stock Exchange composite trading yesterday,
Pepperell closed at $35, up $1.75.
   Among other things, Kidder and the others are seeking to
block an earlier-announced debt-for-equity swap, under which
Mr. Farley has agreed to hand over the bulk of his Pepperell
holdings to creditors who funded his takeover.
   The lawsuit, filed in Troup County, Ga., state court, also
asks for undetermined compensatory damages, and $10 million
in punitive damages.
   Mr. Farley couldn't be reached for comment.
   The Kidder/Lanier lawsuit outlines the disastrous chain of
events that followed Mr. Farley's victory in the protracted
and bitter fight for control of Pepperell, during the last
days of the 1980s takeover boom.
   Mr. Farley's woes stem, to a large extent, from the
collapse of Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc., which helped finance
most of his acquisitions.
   Under terms of the definitive agreement to which Pepperell
management finally acceded, the suit says, Mr. Farley was
specifically obliged to purchase at $58 apiece "any and all"
Pepperell shares that weren't tendered.
   Such arrangements aren't unusual; in many offers, a small
percentage of holders fail, for whatever reason, to tender
their shares. Those leftover holdings are typically scooped
up at the same price through a so-called "short-form"
maneuver, once the buyer has a controlling stake.
   Mr. Farley had the help of a "highly confident" letter
from Drexel, promising to place $1.7 billion in "mezzanine
financing," the suit claims. That junk-bond financing was to
replace a $1.4 billion bridge loan provided by bank lenders.
   But because the junk-bond market was turning sour --
mainly because of Drexel's increasing difficulties -- Mr.
Farley couldn't place the junk to pay off the bridge loan.
   He also couldn't raise the additional -- about $80 million
to cash out the untendered shares. And until he did so, terms
of the merger agreement prohibited him from any access to
West Point's cash flow.
   Under those constraints, the acquisition vehicle in March
1990 went into default to senior lenders and bondholders. In
August 1991, Mr. Farley agreed to cede almost all of the
acquisition vehicle, and the 95% Pepperell stake it holds, to
the creditors.
   That arrangement, the Kidder/Lanier suit asserts, means
Pepperell's "minority shareholders will be left holding their
WPP stock with no opportunity to receive the contractual
price." The implication is that the minority holders will be
frozen out, with the money instead used to repay some of the
still-unpaid acquisition debt.
   The minority holders' position "has been eroded even
further," the suit alleges, "through certain preferential
payments" that Pepperell has agreed to make to the
acquisition vehicle and affiliated Farley interests. Those
include certain "tax-sharing" payments to which the minority
holders take exception. They object as well to a July 1991
pact that calls for the investment vehicle -- which is not
yet controlled by lenders -- to pay Mr. Farley and affiliates
$5 million annually through June 1994, for "management
services."
   Such an arrangement, the suit maintains, constitutes
"unlawful discrimination among shareholders."
   Kidder, a unit of General Electric Co., said it owns
167,000 Pepperell shares. While the suit doesn't say how the
company happened to own the untendered shares, and a Kidder
official declined to comment, the most likely explanation
appears that the securities firm acquired the stock at a
discount after the tender offer had expired, in expectation
of a profit when the final cash-out took place.
   Mr. Lanier, the suit says, owns nearly 23,000 shares,
while Grace Brothers owns 55,500 Pepperell shares.