OTC Focus:
   Hot IPO Market
   May Leave Burns
   On Small Investors
   ----
   By Anne Newman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Small investors may be tempted to buy such stocks even
after the first-day fireworks. But that's a bad idea, say
several longtime observers of new-issues markets, who argue
that it's better to wait to buy until some of these stocks
fall out of favor.
   "If it's truly a good deal, you're not going to get a
piece of it," says John Markese, research director of the
American Association of Individual Investors in Chicago. Mr.
Markese advises investors to "wait a year or more" before
re-examining whether to buy a once-hot IPO.
   In the mutual-back-scratching world of underwriting,
investment bankers typically parcel out the best deals to
their best customers, namely the large institutions and
"hedge funds" on which underwriters rely for a large part of
their trading commissions. "Institutions dominate the
hot-issues market," says John W. Peavy III, a finance
professor at Southern Methodist University in Dallas, who has
studied why individuals rarely get popular deals. "What's
left, typically you don't want."
   Michael Berlin, a vice president with a closely held
cement company in Bethlehem, Pa., began researching IPOs last
year through newsletters and filing documents.
"Research-wise, I think IPOs allow a novice investor to be on
equal footing with everyone else," he says. "I don't have the
time to research and accumulate all the data out there on GM
and Apple and the big companies. And I don't have the
prescience to ferret out the turnaround deals."
   Mr. Berlin's IPO picks have, for the most part, been good
ones: Last year he got in on the successful offering in Paris
of EuroDisney. But this year he chose Scholastic and Coleman,
and both deals were oversubscribed by the time he selected
them. "It's very frustrating to do the research and then find
out you can't get in," he says. He knew he had missed his
chance when both deals were priced higher than expected.
   Such are the "perverse rules" of underwriting, says Jay
Ritter, finance professor at the University of Illinois. In
most businesses, lowering prices attracts buyers, and raising
them has the opposite effect. Not so with many new stock
offerings. When the size and initial price of an offering are
boosted, Mr. Ritter says, "it's much more likely to jump in
price" on the first trading day. "The hotter the deal, the
more institutional money will be involved," driving the price
higher. "Then the hedge funds will come and go," he adds. As
they did with Synopsys.
   Wednesday morning, hedge funds, which often buy popular
IPOs and sell them the same day for quick profits, were
poised for Synopsys. The fast-growing, Silicon Valley maker
of high-tech software used by computer engineers was brought
public by Morgan Stanley in an offering of just two million
shares. At an 8 a.m. EST meeting of one trading firm, which
asked not to be identified, the deal was described as "hot";
it was expected to trade up a "few points" from its filing
price of $18 a share, already higher than the original
$13-to-$15 range. Traders stared in disbelief when it opened
at $28.50.
   "This is stupid, stupid, stupid," one trader said as he
began taking orders from hedge funds with code names such as
"Batman" and "Green Lantern." Hedge funds, which bet that
certain stocks will rise and others will drop, are known to
play IPOs both on the way up and the way down. As Synopsys
inexorably climbed -- hitting an intraday high of 33 --
another, seasoned trader took a strategic but inaccurate
guess: "Buy in spades until 1.5 million {shares} trade, then
it breaks and falls to 25 1/2." But the stock never did
break. On Friday it eased 3/8, to 30 3/4.
   Synopsys has a promising future, but like many companies
in overheated markets it will have a tough time meeting
expectations already reflected in the stock, Prof. Ritter
says. Revenue is expected to jump nearly 47% to $59.5 million
for the fiscal year ending in September; earnings could surge
to 55 cents a share from 27 cents a year earlier, analysts
say.
   But in one fleeting day, Synopsys became far more
expensive than competitors. The stock's market value is more
than 8 1/2 times 1991 revenue. Meanwhile, Viewlogic trades at
about six times sales and Cadence Design and Mentor Graphics
sell for less than three times revenue.
   Synopsys' stock-market value of $384 million compares with
$540 million in projected 1992 sales for all the companies in
its industry combined, warns Charles Foundyller, president of
Daratech Inc. of Cambridge, Mass., which tracks the
computer-aided design business. Synopsys "may have rapid
growth for a couple of years, but I think they'll hit a brick
wall at {sales of} about $100 million," Mr. Foundyller says.
   Studies by Prof. Ritter and other academics have shown
repeatedly that investors who buy popular IPOs in hot markets
are likely to be disappointed. Evidence from the past 17
years shows that companies going public when there's little
IPO volume outperform the Standard  Poor's 500 index for
several years, according to Prof. Ritter. "Companies that go
public in hot markets generally underperform," he says.
"Buying when the market is soft gives you the best long-run
returns." And nobody can call this market soft-not with
Scholastic trading at 28 1/8 Friday after going public last
week at 22 1/2, and Coleman at 24 7/8 compared with a midweek
offering price of 19 1/2.
   One other odd feature of the new-issues market is "the
winner's curse," Prof. Ritter adds. "If you win the shares
you ask for, it's more likely you don't want them."
   It's a curse Mr. Berlin hasn't escaped. Last year he
easily bought 200 initial shares of Government Technology
Services, which provides computer equipment to the federal
government. "A broker said it was a great company and a hot
issue," he says. "I didn't have any trouble getting any."
Offered at $12 each, the shares quickly rose to 16, then sank
as low as 9. They were at 14 Friday. Mr. Berlin says another
broker recently warned him: "If it's easy to get shares, it's
because no one else wants them."
   It certainly wasn't easy to get shares of Callaway Golf,
maker of the Big Bertha club, which went public last week at
$20. Trading as ELY on the New York Stock Exchange, the stock
opened at 36 and ended at 32 3/8 Friday.
   Ely Callaway, chairman and chief executive officer, said
much of the buying came from small investors who are golfers.
Skeptics on the stock noted that Mr. Callaway and his biggest
backer, General Electric Pension Trust, sold 1.8 million
shares in the offering. Both Mr. Callaway and GE make clear
in the company's offering prospectus that they may sell the
rest of their stakes within a year. "It's not ideal when you
see the founder and a big investor cashing in on the initial
sale," says Leo Grohowski, managing director, equity
investments, at Marinvest.
   ---
   Friday's Market Activity
                                                                                                       

   Over-the-counter stocks closed mixed after subsiding from
early gains.
   The Nasdaq Composite Index fell 0.48, or 0.08%, to 633.47.
Advancing issues led decliners, 1,197 to 982. For the week,
the index rose 3.71, or 0.59%.
   Microsoft lost 1 3/8 Friday to finish at 123 1/2. Amgen
dropped 5/8 to 65 1/4 and Xoma added 3/4 to 24 1/2.
   Novell was the most active issue, down 1 1/4 to 61 3/4
despite the computer networking company's report that fiscal
first-quarter net rose to 34 cents a share from 21 cents a
share a year ago. Analysts surveyed by First Call, a unit of
Thomson Financial Networks, had an average estimate of 33
cents a share for the quarter, ended Jan. 27.
   Komag slumped 3 to 14 7/8 after the maker of thin film
media for computer disk drives posted fourth-quarter net from
operations of 14 cents a share, compared with year-ago net
income of 32 cents a share. The latest-quarter results
include a loss of $3.5 million from Dastek Inc., a maker of
disk drive recording heads that Komag acquired in December.
   MCI Communications finished with a gain of 1/4 to 35 on
heavy volume of three million shares. The stock traded as
high as 36 1/8 intraday following news late Thursday that it
received a two-year contract to provide international
long-distance telephone services to all U.S. federal
government agencies and departments.
   Sunwest Financial Services gained 2 1/4 to 32 1/2 after
the company said it is considering business combination
proposals from several parties that it didn't identify. The
company said there is no assurance that an agreement will be
reached. It didn't provide additional details.
   Sulcus Computer jumped 1 3/8 to 12 3/8. The company
entered a tentative agreement to acquire closely held
Squirrel Cos. of Atlanta. Squirrel, which produces
touchscreen point-of-sales technology, has annual revenue of
about $5 million.
   Au Bon Pain jumped 4 1/8 to 20 7/8. An analyst issued a
"buy" recommendation on the bakery and cafe operator's stock.
   Goal Systems jumped 1 7/8 to 14 3/4. The company reported
fourth-quarter net from operations of 32 cents a share,
compared with year-ago net income of 25 cents a share.
Revenue climbed to $42.2 million from $34.9 million.