Politics  Policy:
   Speaker Declares End to `Patronage Era'
   As Another Officer of the House Resigns
   ----
   By Jeffrey H. Birnbaum
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Mr. Rota, 57 years old, was the second House officer to
resign in a week. The House's sergeant-at-arms, Jack Russ,
resigned last week in the wake of the controversy over the
House Bank, which he oversaw. Taken together, the two
resignations tend to reinforce the impression that the House
was poorly managed, and is likely to intensify voter
resentment toward incumbents that the check-kiting episode
already has engendered.
   To combat this impression, Speaker Foley told Democratic
colleagues at a private meeting that he expects to trim back
or eliminate some of the biggest perquisites now enjoyed by
members of the House. According to people at the meeting, the
Washington Democrat said he is considering closing the free
pharmacy available to House members, increasing the
now-nominal cost of membership to the House's modern health
club, and ending the practice of allowing members to hire
friends and political cronies for certain low-level patronage
jobs in the House.
   The changes would be designed to bring the operations of
the House onto a more businesslike footing. The first step,
Foley aides said, is to ask the House to vote, perhaps as
early as next week, for the appointment of a general
administrator for all House operations.
   The legislation to overhaul the House's administration is
still under negotiation between Mr. Foley and House
Republican Leader Robert Michel. Mr. Michel of Illinois told
reporters at a breakfast that major changes are needed but
that he would resist simply imposing "a bureaucracy" atop the
current system. Other Republicans are resisting an agreement
with the Democrats on the issue, hoping to use it as another
way to highlight the poor management of the
Democratic-controlled chamber.
   "The whole administration of Congress is in need of
review," Mr. Michel said. "We need to take a fresh look."
   Changes are coming soon at the mail facility in the House.
At least part of the operation is expected to become part of
the U.S. Postal Service. And in-House deliveries could come
under the purview of a new messenger system. But in his
resignation statement, Mr. Rota mentioned neither the
problems nor the pending changes in his office. Mr. Foley
said Mr. Rota had been considering retirement anyway.
   Mr. Michel also said reports that the postal facility was
cashing checks "bears watching."