`America First' Mood Is Wreaking Havoc
   On U.S. Aid to Former Soviet Republics
   ----
   By Gerald F. Seib
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Both the Bush administration and Congress are gun-shy
about foreign aid at a crucial time in the evolution of new
nations emerging from the former Soviet Union. "We haven't
shown adequately enough that we fully back the political and
reform processes to the exclusion of any alternative," says
Allen Weinstein, president of the Center for Democracy, a
nonprofit organization that works closely with Russia. "This
is, after all, the transforming moment of our time."
   The irony is that leaders of both parties would like to do
more. Democratic presidential candidates -- particularly Paul
Tsongas and Sen. Robert Kerrey, as well as House Majority
Leader Richard Gephardt -- have chided the Bush
administration for failing to be more bold in helping former
Soviet republics.
   The administration has tried in recent weeks to send
powerful symbolic messages to Russia and other republics by
organizing an international conference to coordinate aid
efforts, launching an airlift of a modest amount of American
food and medical supplies, and scraping together $645 million
in additional aid.
   But it was obvious that political quicksand remains when
Secretary of State James Baker testified recently before the
Senate Foreign Relations Committee. Two Democratic senators,
Joseph Biden of Delaware and Alan Cranston of California,
urged Mr. Baker to do more to help the former Soviet
republics.
   But then the panel's discussion turned to Sen. Christopher
Dodd of Connecticut, a Democrat who is up for re-election
this year. He had a starkly different message for Mr. Baker:
It would be a "dreadful mistake" for the administration to
calculate that the American people would support a big aid
package for the former Soviet Union, Sen. Dodd declared. "The
attention of the people is focused on what is not happening
at home."
   The administration displayed its own political
schizophrenia on the issue late last year, when Senate
Democrats took the lead in pulling $400 million out of the
defense budget to help the former Soviet Union destroy its
atomic weapons and store the nuclear material. But the
Democrats couldn't persuade the administration to speak out
on behalf of their effort.
   The U.S. in coming weeks may well provide more credits to
Russia to buy American grain. Russian President Boris Yeltsin
has just requested $600 million in new credits to help feed
his nation. Grain credits are politically palatable in the
U.S., because they are a boon to American farmers and because
they have to be repaid eventually; thus, the credits don't
have to be portrayed as outright aid.
   But some officials are beginning to worry that the U.S.
may flunk a far bigger test later this year. In coordination
with the International Monetary Fund, the U.S. almost
certainly will be expected to appropriate a big chunk of
money to create a multibillion-dollar fund to stabilize the
Russian ruble, an essential step in remaking the old
communist economy. Even though, under ideal conditions, such
a fund would act as a kind of security blanket that inspires
international confidence in the economy but never has to be
used, one senior U.S. finance official frets, "I just don't
see where the money is coming from."
   Congress already has been dragging its heels in approving
a promised $12 billion increase in funding for the IMF, an
issue that isn't directly related to creation of the
stabilization fund but is another indication of U.S.
attitudes this election year.
   John Steinbruner, director of foreign policy studies at
the Brookings Institution, says Congress might approve more
assistance, provided the aid is cast as an investment in a
more secure world for America. Lawmakers also have shown a
bit more willingness to consider aid if it comes straight out
of the defense budget.
   Still, the international aid effort that has taken shape
looks increasingly inadequate in the face of mammoth needs of
the former Soviet republics. Alexander Zhitnikov, deputy
chairman of the commission Russia has established to handle
international aid, said his republic would like to meet 2% to
3% of its total food needs through international aid. This
year, despite talk of a big international relief effort, Mr.
Zhitnikov says he expects Russia can fill only 1% to 1.2% of
its needs through aid.
   The U.S. probably is ceding influence inside Russia, as
Europeans increasingly are seen as the main donors. The
European Community recently rankled American officials by
compiling a breakdown of aid commitments. The list showed
that about 75% of total aid pledged so far to the former
Soviet Union has been promised by European nations -- 57% by
Germany alone.
   Mr. Zhitnikov says there "definitely" is a public
perception in Russia that Europe is doing more to help than
is the U.S. He declines to criticize the U.S., though, saying
diplomatically that Russians' "hopes haven't been fulfilled
up until now."