Technology  Medicine:
   Pfizer to Settle
   Suits Related
   To Heart Valve
   ---
   Company Plans to Spend
   Over $500 Million, Takes
   Fourth-Quarter Charge
   ----
   By Michael Waldholz
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Pfizer also said it agreed to provide an additional $205
million to settle claims by the thousands of people who say
they are experiencing severe anxiety, worrying their existing
valve may fail. The offer was unusual in that it was the
first time the company acknowledged that there was some merit
to claims made by people whose valves still are functioning.
   The action was seen by securities analysts as an
aggressive, but perhaps unsuccessful, attempt to remove a
dark cloud over the company's otherwise bright future. Pfizer
has been hit with hundreds of lawsuits related to the heart
valve problem.
   About 460 of the 85,000 Bjork-Shiley valves implanted
since the early 1980s have broken, resulting in about 310
deaths. Pfizer's Shiley unit stopped selling the valve in
1986, but about 55,000 people world-wide still have the valve
in their hearts. Plaintiffs' lawyers estimate that in recent
years Pfizer has settled about 100 lawsuits by families of
people who died because of defective valves. But the company
had been fighting an additional 400 lawsuits by people
claiming that having a Bjork-Shiley valve is causing them
severe anxiety and other health problems.
   Pfizer said the $300 million reserve reduced
fourth-quarter earnings by $195 million after taxes, or 58
cents a share. As a result, the company said profit in the
quarter plummeted to $900,000, with no earnings per share,
compared with $154.8 million, or 46 cents a share, in the
same period a year earlier. Revenue for the quarter grew 4%
to $1.85 billion from $1.79 billion in the 1990 period.
   The company said it believed the $300 million reserve
should cover settlement costs for an estimated 1% of existing
valves that may break and result in illness or death. Barbara
Ryan, an analyst with Prudential Securities Inc., said she
was "surprised" by the charge because "Pfizer previously had
said it already had taken enough reserves" to cover
Bjork-Shiley valve claims.
   "Even so, the $300 million isn't a great deal, considering
Pfizer's strong balance sheet," Ms. Ryan said. In New York
Stock Exchange trading, Pfizer's shares closed $76.125, up
87.5 cents in trading of more than one million shares.
   The company's decision to try to resolve the suits
involving still-functioning valves also surprised analysts.
"Clearly it's an effort to put the whole Shiley mess behind
them," Ms. Ryan said. But she and other analysts said they
would be surprised if Pfizer's offer is taken by all those
with working valves who already have filed suits against the
company.
   In an agreement in federal court in Cincinnati, Pfizer
offered to spend up to $75 million to fund research to
develop ways to diagnose and treat people whose valves may be
at high risk of breaking. The company also agreed to spend
$80 million to $130 million to make one-time payments of
about $4,000 to each of the 55,000 people with working valves
to cover medical costs related to their concern over their
valves.
   In addition, the company agreed to make guaranteed
compensation payments for valves that break and cause illness
or death. The company agreed to pay claimants between
$500,000 and $2 million, depending on their family needs,
without the need for filing a suit against the company.
   "While we continue to believe that functioning valve
claims are without merit, putting this complex, costly and
time consuming litigation behind us will eliminate the
disruptions and uncertainties involved in complex
litigation," said William C. Steere Jr., who became president
and chief executive officer last year.
   The agreement, which still must be certified by the
federal court following a hearing in June, arose from a
complaint filed for alleged anxiety by a class of plaintiffs
organized by Stanley Chesley, a product liability lawyer in
Cincinnati with the law firm of Waite, Schneider, Bayless 
Chesley.
   Pfizer officials said they hoped the offer would resolve
about 400 anxiety-related lawsuits and keep others from being
filed. The company said 55 such suits either have been
dismissed or were withdrawn after Pfizer filed initial
arguments. A California court in 1990 ruled, however, that a
plaintiff could sue Pfizer for anxiety concerns. That case is
scheduled to be heard this year.
   Lawyers for that case and other similar ones couldn't be
reached for comment.
   Pfizer's earnings are expected to grow sharply in the next
few years because of several new prescription drugs on the
market and in its research pipeline. But some investors
worried that outstanding Bjork-Shiley valve claims might damp
profits, analysts said.
   For the full year, Pfizer said it earned $732.1 million,
or $2.13 a share, down 10% from $801.2 million, or $2.38 a
share, it earned in 1990. Revenue for the year increased 8%
to $6.95 billion from $6.4 billion in 1990.