Creditors May
   Get Maxwell
   Equity Stake
   ---
   Administrators Mull Swap
   Of Debt for Big Interest
   In Principal U.S. Units
   ----
   By Ken Wells
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
A piecemeal sale would be a blow to the ambition of
Maxwell Communication's U.S. leadership, which is hoping to
emerge from bankruptcy protection with a core of the
company's publishing assets intact.
   A decision on the matter is expected soon, perhaps within
weeks, following completion of annual business plans by both
Macmillan and Official Airline Guides this month, said Mark
Homan, an official with Price Waterhouse, the court-appointed
administrator that is effectively running Maxwell
Communication's affairs. Mr. Homan said a decision will also
depend heavily on a review of all alternatives by J.P. Morgan
 Co., the investment banking concern recently appointed by
his office. Any plan must be approved by creditors
representing at least 75% of the company's $2.1 billion in
debt, Mr. Homan said.
   Mr. Homan made his remarks in a briefing for reporters at
which he and other administrators also announced that the
sale of the core of Maxwell Communication's assets in the
United Kingdom is likely to be completed by March. The
administrators also said they have advised the company's
management, in an opinion sure to spark controversy, that
Maxwell Communication's pension fund, raided by the late
Robert Maxwell, need not be considered a creditor of the
company
   "We have taken the position that there is not a claim by
the {pension fund} upon the company," said Jonathan Phillips,
an associate of Mr. Homan's. "We also do not expect them
{pensioners} to accept our view." The Price Waterhouse view
is that the pension fund is a separate entity that was run by
its own board of trustees, and that Maxwell Communication is
meeting its immediate obligations to employees covered by the
system.
   The issue is important because about $750 million was
drained from both Maxwell Communication and Mirror Group
Newspaper pensions in allegedly unlawful transfers largely
authorized by Mr. Maxwell before his death in November.
Attorneys for pensioners maintain that Mr. Maxwell and
Maxwell Communication structured the fund in a manner that
allowed Mr. Maxwell to manipulate it, and that the company
thus bears responsibility for any shortfall.
   That opinion aside, some potential buyers of Maxwell
Communication assets have been factoring in possible
pensionfund liabilities in their proposed purchasing prices
under the theory that they might ultimately be held liable
for the company's pension obligations. However, under the
administrators' obligation to "maximize value for creditors"
Price Waterhouse isn't giving such bids more weight than
those that make no pension provisions, the administrator
said.
   The impending sale of Maxwell Communication's U.K. assets
include Nimbus Records, a maker of compact disks; Maxwell
Business Communications Group, an information services
concern; Macdonald Books, a publishing concern; and Maxwell
Consumer Publishing  Communications, a speciality publisher.
Mr. Homan also said he expects to find a buyer shortly for
Panini, an Italian maker of coloring books and stickers for
children. He declined to say what the properties are likely
to fetch, but said interest has been brisk, with Nimbus alone
attracting almost 40 suitors.
   Other Maxwell Communication interests that will soon be
put on the block include QED Technology, a computer concern;
International Learning Systems, a foreign-language tutorial
company; and Imprimerie Cino del Duca, a French printer.
About 80% of all of the company's assets rest in its U.S.
operations.