PaineWebber Post
   Changes Hands
   In Strategy Shift
   ----
   By William Power
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Many Wall Street brokerage firms have been beefing up
their derivatives operations for customers, hoping
institutional investors will seek ways to profit from
futures, commodities, foreign-exchange instruments and other
investments besides simple stocks and bonds.
   "We think over time our traditional equity clients will
more and more utilize derivatives products," said Lee
Fensterstock, PaineWebber capital-markets director. "We
needed to bring in someone like Steve to execute" the new
strategy, he said.
   Mr. DeVoe, 43 years old, will be succeeded at Smith Barney
by head stock trader Robert K. DiFazio, 36, who joined the
firm from PaineWebber 10 years ago. Smith Barney said Mr.
DiFazio will work with a deputy, Carl B. Davis III, who will
continue to run institutional stock sales. Mr. DeVoe was
unavailable for comment.
   The resignation of Mr. Milligan and hiring of Mr. DeVoe
continues nearly two years of management change at
PaineWebber. In 1990, Mr. Milligan was named co-head of the
newly combined capitalmarkets division encompassing all
institutional sales, trading and research. But less than a
year later, PaineWebber brought in Mr. Fensterstock, then its
head financial officer, to run the capital-markets division,
saying it needed "additional focus and control."
   Mr. Milligan's fate was clearly sealed when Mr.
Fensterstock decided to shift its derivatives effort toward
customers and away from so-called proprietary trading, or
trading for the firm's own account. Mr. Milligan, 44, has
always been known for his proprietary-trading expertise. "In
this business, as you develop a strategy and pursue it, the
people equation will change to fit the strategy," Mr.
Fensterstock said.
   Mr. Milligan didn't return a phone message left at his
home. A PaineWebber memo to officers said he plans to start
his own firm. The memo said Mr. Milligan "contributed
significantly to PaineWebber" as a trader and manager during
his 16 years there, including the completion of the
transition from proprietary to clientoriented focus in the
derivatives department.
   PaineWebber said that Mr. Milligan's responsibilities as
head of a company riskmanagement committee will be parceled
out to PaineWebber executives.