FDA Orders Halt to Underground Sales
   Of Unauthorized Copy of Drug for AIDS
   ----
   By Marilyn Chase
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The AIDS underground is a loose network of drugstores
called buyers clubs that offer patients an array of herbs and
experimental drugs at low cost. The ersatz DDC, copied by
cottage chemists using commodity lab supplies, sold for about
$50 for several months' supply.
   But FDA samples of underground capsules found unreliable
contents, ranging from no drug at all to twice the labeled
amount, raising fears of underdosing or overdosing. Too much
DDC, an anti-viral drug, causes a painful neuropathy, or
nerve damage, in the hands and feet.
   "Underground DDC is produced under poor manufacturing
conditions {and} overall safety and purity of DDC is
suspect," the FDA said late last week, after asking
underground drugstores to cease DDC sales. Previously, the
regulatory agency had adopted a laissez-faire attitude, as
long as underground entrepreneurs didn't engage in promotions
or profiteering.
   Roche, however, alerted regulators after it said it
learned of potency problems and possible toxic reactions to
the copycat capsules. A spokesman said Friday that the
company "feels the FDA took appropriate action to protect
public safety."
   About 18 underground drugstores nationwide are covered by
last week's FDA directive. Several already have indicated
they will abide by the agency's request.
   "We're going to comply," said Derek Hodel, executive
director of the PWA Health Group in New York City. "But the
question now is, what becomes of the 8,000 to 10,000 people
on underground DDC?" Many such people failed to qualify for
company-sponsored programs. Others went to the underground to
evade a company rule against taking DDC in tandem with
Wellcome PLC's AZT, he noted. Ironically, that combination
regimen performed so well in clinical tests that Roche, a
unit of Roche Holding Ltd. of Switzerland, subsequently asked
the FDA to approve it.
   Mr. Hodel said his group will press Roche to relax its
controls over the giveaway program to embrace the
disenfranchised underground consumers. On Friday, a Roche
spokesman didn't rule that out, but repeated the company's
stand that the best way to serve patients' needs was by
gaining swift market approval.
   "Even thinking optimistically, we're not going to see
approval for several months," Mr. Hodel said. Typically, an
FDA advisory panel will weigh all the data for and against a
drug, before giving a recommendation to the FDA commissioner.
Such a hearing could come as early as April, though no date
has been set.
   Despite widespread patient anxiety, at least one medical
consumer advocate said the FDA did the right thing.
   Sidney M. Wolfe, head of the Public Citizen Health
Research Group, and a frequent critic of the FDA, this time
said the agency's action was "good."
   "They do the same thing to brand-name drugs," Dr. Wolfe
said. "If you look at drug recalls, a major reason is drug
potency problems. There's no reason the underground should be
more protected {from FDA action} than brand-name drug
companies."