Sun Co., Ontario Province Plan to Sell
   Up to 45% of Jointly Held Suncor Unit
   ----
   By Suzanne McGee
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
A source close to the transaction said the underwriters,
Toronto investment dealers Wood Gundy Inc. and RBC Dominion
Securities Inc., plan to market the shares at between C$23
and C$25 each. At last report, Suncor had 54.4 million shares
outstanding.
   Suncor is one of the few companies with crude oil refining
and marketing assets that succeeded in turning a profit in
1991. The company reported net income of C$77 million, or
C$1.42 a share, down from C$124 million, or C$2.27 a share,
in 1990 but a far cry from the big losses posted by industry
giants such as Petro-Canada. Suncor's refining and marketing
operations alone reported net of C$28 million, a Sun Co.
spokesman said.
   "We believe the timing for this issue is very good because
of the stellar earnings performance" of Suncor, said Tim
Hughes, director of investor relations for Sun.
   The move is timely for the Ontario government, which holds
its 25% interest through a crown corporation, Ontario Energy
Corp. The province is trying to come to grips with a major
recession and has warned that its deficit of C$9.7 billion
could widen to C$14.3 billion in the fiscal year beginning
April 1 if it doesn't cut spending. The issue could raise as
much as C$340 million for the provincial government's
coffers.
   Analysts said that if the stock is priced at about C$24 a
share, it probably will be well received by the market.
Earlier reports had put the value of the company at as much
as C$1.6 billion, and investment industry sources said a C$23
to C$25 share price would ensure strong interest.
   Often described as one of the best-run integrated oil
companies, with production activity as well as refining and
marketing operations, Suncor took the lead in cutting costs
and operations, emerging from the process smaller but more
profitable. In the late 1980s, Suncor management cut the work
force by about a quarter, sold 20% of the company's retail
gasoline stations, reduced refining capacity and sold a
number of underperforming oil and gas properties and an
undeveloped coal property.
   Jim Doak, an analyst with First Marathon Securities Ltd.
in Toronto, said Suncor also will benefit from the more
recent actions of other major players in the refining and
marketing business. Petro-Canada has already announced plans
to deal with the overcapacity plaguing the industry by
closing or selling a third of its gas stations and idling or
converting two of its five refineries. Imperial Oil Ltd.,
70%-owned by Exxon Corp., is expected to announce similar
plans shortly.
   The company said the issue is expected to be completed by
early March. The shares will be offered publicly in Canada
and Europe and by private placement in the U.S. Suncor said
it expects its 234,000 preferred shares outstanding will be
converted into common on completion of the offering or will
be redeemed by the company.
   Suncor said it has declared a quarterly dividend rate of
26 Canadian cents a share on its common stock, payable March
18 to shareholders of record Feb. 28, a rate which company
officials described as "subject to normal periodical
reviews." Shares will be available for purchase on an
installment basis, with the purchaser paying half the price
initially and the remaining half about a year after the
issue.