Technology  Medicine:
   Early Abbott Test
   For AIDS Is Probed
   By Rep. Dingell
   ----
   By Thomas M. Burton
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Rep. Dingell has asked the company about the possibility
that its early test produced so-called false negatives. Such
tests would show a blood sample as being uncontaminated, even
though the sample in fact contained the AIDS virus.
   In such a case, an unwitting patient could receive blood
during surgery and contract AIDS. Abbott has been named a
defendant in a lawsuit alleging this occurred in at least one
instance.
   Some California health authorities concluded that the
Abbott test produced some false negatives in samples of blood
taken from the San Francisco area in 1986. The samples came
largely from members of the homosexual community, one that is
heavily at risk for contracting AIDS. Thus the samples had a
higher likelihood of including some with the AIDS virus.
   The phenomenon of false negatives has been known about
since the early days of the AIDS test. So, too, the existence
of "false positives" has been known, which can lead to blood
banks throwing out uncontaminated blood.
   Abbott was one of five manufacturers who received samples
of the AIDS virus from the U.S. government so it could
manufacture a test for the disease. It was the first to
receive approval from the federal Food and Drug
Administration.
   Then and now, there is known to be a period of several
months during which a person could have recently acquired the
AIDS virus, yet still test negative. Blood from such a donor
could still find its way into the country's blood supply
network for use in surgical procedures, transfusions and the
like.
   While the tests have become more advanced since their
invention, doctors still say that recipients of blood can
become infected this way, but that the chances are slight of
this happening.
   Doctors estimate that nowadays one in between 40,000 and
150,000 units of blood can be contaminated with the AIDS
virus as a result of this shortcoming in the test. The virus,
too, can be contracted through organ and tissue transplants,
including bone grafts and the like. Doctors estimate there is
a minimal chance of contracting AIDS this way, too -- a risk
about equivalent to the chance of acquiring the virus through
blood transfusions.
   Abbott, which makes hospital supply products, as well as
pharmaceutical and diagnostic equipment, declined comment on
the Dingell inquiry and on the lawsuit alleging deficiencies
in its early test. Abbott said it couldn't immediately
provide any broad-based data on how its numbers of false
negatives in early tests compared to those in tests made by
other manufacturers.