Autos:
   Sales of Used Rental Cars by Big Three
   Depress Other Second-Hand Auto Prices
   ----
   By Neal Templin
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
"I was very, very unhappy," says Mr. Hodgkiss, who had
paid $10,000 for the Sundance just a year earlier.
   Lots of other car owners -- particularly those with U.S.
cars -- are finding themselves in the same predicament. Why?
Because auto makers, especially the Big Three, are flooding
the market with late-model used cars. These "program cars,"
as they're dubbed in Detroit, are first sold to daily rental
fleets, such as Hertz and Avis. But four to six months later,
the fleets sell them back to the car companies. The auto
makers, in turn, sell the cars to dealers, which then sell
them to the public at heavy discounts.
   For nearly two years now, these slightly used cars have
helped depress the prices of new cars. But now they're having
a further effect: dragging down the whole market for used
cars. Says W.J. Noonan of PHH Fleet America, which leases
cars to corporate fleets and then sells them when the leases
expire: "In essence they have eroded the value of every used
car."
   Since 1987, the average price of a new car has soared
$3,000 to nearly $17,000. But the average price of a used
car, which traditionally follows new car prices, has inched
up a mere $400. The presence of "program cars" is just one
reason. Every time a manufacturer slaps a consumer rebate on
a slow-selling new car, it pushes down used car prices for
that same model.
   All this is good news for consumers who want to plunk down
cash to buy a used car. But it's another story for consumers
who want to sell their cars or trade them in for one of the
shiny new models that will be on display at major auto shows
in Detroit, Los Angeles and Chicago in the next several
weeks. As a result, car owners, like home owners, are feeling
poorer these days, and many are hanging on to cars longer.
Mr. Hodgkiss ultimately got his new Toyota, but only after
the Toyota dealership agreed to roll the balance of what he
owed on his used car into a five-year lease with a hefty
payment of $349 a month.
   Owners of U.S. cars like Mr. Hodgkiss walk into Elmore
Toyota in Westminster, Calif., almost every day. They're
often furious when they find out what the car is worth, says
Terry Hope, the dealership's sales manager. "They've been
taken to the cleaners," he says.
   But many new car buyers are also getting more savvy about
resale value. The nation's top-selling car, the mid-sized
Honda Accord, holds its value exceedingly well, partly
because Honda Motor Co. doesn't sell any fleet cars. Indeed,
the 1992 Accord is expected to be worth 58% of its sticker
price after two years, says the ALG guide to resale values,
which is widely used by car-leasing concerns.
   But the ALG guide says Ford Motor Co.'s mid-sized Taurus,
which is sold heavily to rental fleets, will be worth 39% of
the sticker price, a percentage barely above that of the
Hyundai Excel. Honda hits this point in a current television
commercial that shows the door on an Accord slamming shut
with a noise like a bank vault closing. The narrator brags:
"It's a safe place to put your money."
   Resale values are especially crucial in leasing, which is
growing in popularity. The projected resale value of the car
-- called the residual value in a lease -- helps determine
the size of the monthly lease payment. That's why consumers
can lease a well-equipped Accord for $240 a month for two
years but it costs around $340 to lease a similar Taurus.
   It wasn't always like this. Four years ago, the Taurus --
which remains the top-selling domestic model -- had a solid
two-year residual value equal to 50% of its sticker price.
But as Taurus sales slowed, Ford began selling more and more
of them to daily rental fleets to keep its factories running.
This year, some 1.2 million former rental cars will hit the
market, up from 200,000 cars six years ago.
   Until recently, car makers "didn't really understand the
impact that {program cars} would have on residual values,"
says analyst Maryann Keller of Furman Selz Inc. in New York.
"They actually took money out of their own customers'
pockets."
   But now the money is coming out of the auto makers'
pockets as well. For example, General Motors Corp.'s
Oldsmobile division is advertising a $199 monthly payment on
a four-year lease for its new Achieva compact car. But it
will cost Oldsmobile about $1,500 to subsidize the car's
residual value so it can compete with the Accord.
   The Big Three are making efforts to cut the flood of
program cars, which have also been undercutting new car
sales. Ford, GM and Chrysler Corp. have each begun to buy
back rental cars every six months instead of every four
months. They're hoping that action will prop up new car
prices and resale values. Indeed, used car prices have
improved slightly over the past half year, auto executives
say.
   Nissan Motor Co. used similar tactics to increase the
resale value of its Sentra compact car. Two years ago, a
one-year-old Sentra four-door sedan went for 74% of its
original purchase price. Then, Nissan cut the percentage of
Sentras going to daily rental fleets to 6.9% from 10.1%. Now,
a one-year-old Sentra has a resale value equal to 87% of its
original purchase price.
   "Our philosophy is you always maintain a balance" between
supply and demand, explains Earl Hesterberg, head of the
Nissan division of Nissan Motor's U.S. operations. "If you
continually use fleet as an outlet for overproduction, you're
going to have an imbalance."
   But the Big Three are much more dependent on fleet sales
than Nissan. At some U.S. plants, a third of the year's
production these days goes to fill fleet orders. Any sharp
cut in fleet sales would result in costly plant idlings
unless retail orders pick up-which isn't happening in the
current recession.
   Indeed, Ford, the first domestic car maker to tighten its
fleet car repurchases, recently had to close its highly
profitable Lincoln luxury car plant for the first time in
nearly a decade. If the recession continues, auto makers may
be tempted to step up fleet production again, despite the
consequences.
   For now, many customers are getting jolted with trade-in
shock when they try to buy a new car. The Ford
Lincoln-Mercury dealer in Newport, Vt., used to have several
customers who bought new Lincoln Town Cars or Continentals
every two years. But now, these customers are finding they
can't afford a new Lincoln because the trade-in value of
their old one has dropped so low.
   Michael Hayes, the dealership's owner, has a solution,
though. He has been able to persuade some customers to settle
for nearly new Lincolns -- precisely the same former rental
cars that are driving down the trade -- in value of their
used Lincolns. "We've got a chance," says Mr. Hayes, "to take
advantage of the system that undermines us."