Canada's Hibernia Oil Group to Slow
   Project's Development and Spending
   ----
   By Suzanne McGee
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The remaining members of the group, Petro-Canada of
Calgary, Alberta and the Canadian units of Mobil Corp. of New
York and Chevron Corp. of San Francisco, said their decision
to cut daily spending on the project to C$1.5 million from
C$3 million and stop awarding any more construction
contracts, is a direct result of Gulf's withdrawal.
   "Prudent financial management dictates we take this step,"
said Norman McIntyre, president of Petro-Canada's production
unit and chairman of the Hibernia executive committee, after
a meeting with other members of the consortium and officials
of the federal and Newfoundland provincial governments. About
600 people in Newfoundland and Montreal will lose their jobs
as a result of the cutback.
   The remaining partners have taken what industry executives
described as the "highly unusual" step of retaining
investment bankers, Goldman Sachs of New York and Wood Gundy
Inc. of Toronto, to assist them in their quest. Gulf had
expected to spend about C$750 million on Hibernia over the
next three years.
   The decision to ease up on spending means that Hibernia,
discovered more than a decade ago, won't begin commercial
production until 1997, a year later than expected. But it
provides a much-needed breathing space, as the quest for a
partner to take up Gulf's interest continues. If the quest
fails, the remaining members of the consortium will have to
decide whether to split Gulf's share of the Hibernia costs
among them, or call off the project altogether.
   Rex Gibbons, Newfoundland's minister of Mines and Energy,
said that a new partner would likely find involvement in
Hibernia a cheaper and more attractive option following
Gulf's departure, since it would require less investment. But
industry analysts agree that it will be tough to find anyone
willing to step into Gulf's shoes in the current industry
climate, even though foreign investment restrictions on the
Canadian oil and gas industry won't be applied to Hibernia.
   Canadian Energy Minister Jake Epp said one company has
shown interest in the past in acquiring a portion of Gulf's
stake in Hibernia. He declined to identify the company or say
if the offer still stands.
   "It seems pretty hopeless," said Eleanor Barker, an
analyst with Sanwa McCarthy Ltd. in Toronto. She notes that
Gulf marketed the Hibernia stake to several hundred potential
investors world-wide and had about 70 investors interested
enough to take a closer look. All have backed out.
   "Everywhere companies are trying to trim not add costs and
they're focusing on projects with the most robust returns,
not somewhat questionable returns like Hibernia," said
Bernard Picchi, petroleum analyst at Salomon Brothers in New
York. "If the project was so compelling, they wouldn't have
had to hire investment bankers."
   Mr. Picchi also notes that Mobil, Chevron and Petro-Canada
themselves don't have the wherewithal to pour more money into
Hibernia. Indeed, Petro-Canada has been seeking a partner for
part of its own Hibernia interest for several months.
Petro-Canada has a 25% stake in the venture, Mobil's interest
is 28.1%, while Chevron owns 21.9% of the venture.
   "The only option may be to delay the whole thing for a
while," Mr. Picchi said.
   Controversy has followed Hibernia from its earliest days.
After a decade of wrangling between Newfoundland and Ottawa
over mineral rights, an agreement to develop the oil field
finally was reached in 1990, with the Canadian government
chipping in about C$2.5 billion in grants and loan
guarantees. That support means that Hibernia oil will cost
about C$33 a barrel to produce, while project sponsors will
be guaranteed a profit with prices as low as C$15 a barrel,
analysts have calculated.
   Some analysts still criticize the project as a costly
make-work scheme for Newfoundland and say that reserves
haven't been adequately tested. Hibernia is expected to
produce about 110,000 barrels of oil daily.
   If the project is suspended, an announcement could be made
this summer, when Gulf's obligation to contribute to its
costs expires.