Explosive Issue:
   U.S. Sees New Signs
   Israel Resells Its Arms
   To China, South Africa
   ---
   A Lack of Export Approvals
   For Technology Is Found;
   Missiles, Bombs and Radar
   ---
   Israel Denies Any Violations
   ----
   By Edward T. Pound
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Such evidence of unauthorized sales is certain to add to
the current tensions between the U.S. and Israel. Relations
between the allies have been strained recently, largely as a
result of President Bush's efforts to get Israel to stop
settlement construction in the occupied territories in return
for $10 billion in U.S. loan guarantees.
   Information obtained from government officials during a
six-week investigation by this newspaper suggests Israel uses
several schemes to transfer, or re-export, U.S. items to
other countries. In some cases, they say, the Israelis
acquire U.S. components, install them in their own systems
and sell the finished products to third countries. In others,
Israel employs reverse engineering -- disassembling a weapon
to acquire its design secrets -- and then copies it with
changes before selling the item to another country.
   U.S. officials have privately been pressuring Israel for
months to halt the practice, officials say. But Israeli
officials have repeatedly denied any wrongdoing.
   An Israeli government spokeswoman, Ruth Yaron, declines to
answer specific questions about arms sales, but she says
Israel hasn't violated U.S. regulations. "Our policy is to
adhere strictly to the procurement and technology transfer
regulations," she adds.
   The State Department's inspector general, Sherman Funk, is
expected to issue a report later this month that will
summarize intelligence reports of the apparent Israeli
violations of U.S. regulations and agreements, the officials
say. That report will exclude many of the sensitive details
revealed in classified intelligence, and it probably won't
list Israel by name.
   Mr. Funk's public report is also expected to criticize the
State Department for failing to monitor defense sales
adequately. Israel spends about $900 million in U.S. military
aid each year to make commercial purchases from American
contractors, including sophisticated weaponry and technology.
But Mr. Funk's auditors last year found the State Department
over several months hadn't checked on how high-tech items
sold to Israel were used, according to an official familiar
with the inquiry.
   Mr. Funk will recommend disciplinary action against
Richard Clarke, assistant secretary of state in charge of the
bureau of politico-military affairs. Such action could
include firing.
   Separately, the Washington Times reported yesterday that
the Bush administration is investigating intelligence reports
that Israel secretly supplied a U.S. Patriot missile or its
technology to China. Israeli officials strongly denied the
report, and U.S. officials say they are attempting to verify
the intelligence information.
   Intelligence and State Department officials say that
physical inspection and disassembly of Israeli military
hardware would be required to prove unequivocally that Israel
was diverting U.S. technology and arms. But reports have been
so pervasive as to leave no doubt in the U.S. intelligence
community that Israel has repeatedly engaged in diversion
schemes.
   Israel's role in arming nations such as South Africa and
China has long been a matter of public knowledge. But at the
highest levels, Israel repeatedly has denied to the U.S. that
the arms it exports involve unauthorized use of U.S.
technology. Mr. Funk's report will mark the first time the
government has publicly released evidence that, without
naming Israel, will strongly suggest it has exported U.S.
weapons technology without authorization.
   The U.S. discourages trading with certain countries, in
some cases because they promote terrorism or have poor human
rights records. The U.S., for instance, won't sell arms to
South Africa's military or police and complies with a United
Nations arms embargo of South Africa because of apartheid
racial policies.
   Mr. Funk didn't start out investigating Israel
exclusively. His investigation began as a broad look at the
department's failure to prevent unauthorized diversions of
U.S. arms and technologies by companies in Brazil, South
Korea and Singapore, as well as Israel. And his final report
will cover some other countries. But the investigation
eventually focused on Israel because, in the words of one
senior American official, "bucketfuls of intelligence data"
tied companies owned by the Israeli government to illicit
sales.
   Mr. Funk briefed Secretary of State James Baker and Deputy
Secretary Lawrence Eagleburger on Israel's purported
activities last June. Mr. Eagleburger began an immediate
review of Mr. Funk's preliminary findings. In an Aug. 24 memo
sent to 10 senior officials, Mr. Eagleburger ordered that
procedures be adopted to ensure that information on
unauthorized re-exports involving any arms purchaser be
investigated and reported to Congress, department records
show. Mr. Eagleburger also went to Capitol Hill and at least
twice briefed congressional leaders, including Speaker Thomas
Foley and members of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee.
   Soon after the meeting with Messrs. Baker and Eagleburger,
documents show, the State Department began holding up export
licenses for Israel, including U.S. equipment for Israel's
heat-seeking Python 3 air-to-air missile. Companies need
export licenses to ship arms that are on the official U.S.
Munitions List. In a blunt letter, the department warned the
Israeli government that licenses wouldn't be granted for
certain high-tech equipment unless Israel could ensure that
the technology wouldn't be diverted.
   "We would like to be assured you will seek the usual {U.S.
government} approval before third-party transfer occurs,"
wrote Charles Duelfer, a State Department official. Israel's
Defense Ministry said it would do so, but the State
Department continues to closely scrutinize Israeli export
applications, according to senior U.S. officials.
   The only public hint of this tug-of-war came last October,
when Mr. Bush slapped Israel on the wrist after the U.S.
discovered that an Israeli-owned company had exported
ballistic missile components to a South African government
firm. Mr. Bush imposed trading sanctions on the South African
firm, but waived them for the Israeli company. Under pressure
from the U.S., however, Israel agreed to adhere to
international missile controls aimed at preventing the
proliferation of missiles capable of carrying nuclear
warheads.
   The Israeli company wasn't publicly named, but according
to U.S. officials, it was Israel Aircraft Industries, or IAI.
U.S. sanctions would have crippled IAI, Israel's largest
exporter of military items and the prime contractor on the
Israel-U.S. Arrow ground-to-air defense missile, which is
being developed to protect Israeli cities from missile
attacks. U.S. officials say the sanctions, if imposed, would
have barred IAI from receiving U.S. technology, obtaining
export licenses from the State and Commerce departments or
doing business with U.S. agencies.
   Surrounded by hostile neighbors, Israel has steadily built
its defense industry, getting a helping hand from the U.S.,
which provides a basic military grant of $1.8 billion a year.
In the past decade, Israel acquired billions of dollars in
weapons and technology from U.S. companies and also joined
the ranks of the world's top exporters of military items.
Government companies such as Israel Aircraft Industries and
Rafael are among the principal exporters. Rafael is part of
Israel's defense ministry.
   American officials with access to extremely sensitive
information say IAI and Rafael and a third, government-owned
company, Israel Military Industries, are among the Israeli
concerns listed in intelligence reports as having made
unauthorized transfers of U.S. technology.
   Rafael, they say, has sold its Python 3 air-to-air missile
to China and Thailand and is suspected of having sold the
missile to South Africa. The Python 3, they say, is listed in
intelligence reports as having a "high degree" of U.S.
technology and was adapted from the U.S. AIM-9L Sidewinder.
   China is Israel's largest arms customer, according to the
officials. Officials say China, itself a major arms exporter,
sells arms to Iraq, including its own version of the Python
3, called the "PL-8." "That shows you how the system breaks
down," says one senior official. "Once you let the genie out
of the bottle, there are no controls."
   IMI, the officials say, has sold the Mapats anti-tank
missile to South Africa and Venezuela and is suspected of
having sold it to China. The Mapats, intelligence reports
show, is a close copy of Hughes Aircraft Co.'s TOW-2 missile.
Israel, they add, also has sold cluster bombs to Chile, South
Africa and Ethiopia. Intelligence reports list sales of many
other systems, including aircraft, airborne electronic
countermeasures systems and other sophisticated electronics
equipment.
   Marvin Klemow, an IAI official in Washington, said he
couldn't comment on Mr. Funk's report or any allegations. An
IMI official here declined comment and referred all questions
to IMI officials in Tel Aviv, who weren't available last
night.
   Intelligence data reviewed by officials includes a
September 1990 report by the Technology Transfer Intelligence
Committee, a group representing several U.S. agencies and
headed by the Central Intelligence Agency.
   The classified report, entitled "Israel: Marketing U.S.
Strategic Technology," listed several countries -- including
South Africa, China, Venezuela, Chile, Ethiopia and Thailand
-- to which Israel had sold weaponry allegedly containing
U.S. technology. The report's authors include officials from
the CIA, the Defense Intelligence Agency, the National
Security Agency, the National Security Council and the
Federal Bureau of Investigation.
   In many cases, re-exports of high-tech defense items
acquired from U.S. sources are forbidden by the Arms Export
Control Act, unless approved by the U.S. The law requires
reports to Congress whenever the State Department receives
reliable information on re-export violations.
   Some State Department officials in the bureau of
politico-military affairs maintain that reporting
requirements apply only to re-export violations that involve
equipment furnished directly by the U.S. government and not
on commercial transactions. Moreover, they argue, U.S.
sanctions, including termination of military aid, can be
imposed only on violations that involve direct U.S.
government sales. But Mr. Funk argues that sanctions can be
imposed by the president as long as the items re-exported are
on the official U.S. Munitions List, people familiar with his
inquiry say.
   A senior State Department official says the CIA was
especially helpful to Mr. Funk in his investigation. His
auditors discovered that the CIA's intelligence reports on
Israeli sales weren't widely circulated within the State
Department.
   Indeed, the State Department's Mr. Clarke wasn't convinced
by the intelligence, although he occasionally filed protests
with the Israeli government, according to three American
officials. Mr. Clarke previously served as the department's
deputy assistant secretary for intelligence and research,
which initially receives U.S. intelligence from other
agencies and distributes it within the department.
   One government agency, the Arms Control and Disarmament
Agency, has long been pressuring State Department licensing
officials to crack down on Israel.
   Last spring, the ACDA notified licensing officials that it
wanted to review export applications for U.S. components if
they were to be used in certain Israeli weapons systems,
State Department records show. The notification covered more
than a dozen systems, including the Phalcon Awacs aircraft
(Airborne Warning and Control System), a lethal unmanned
aerial vehicle, surface-to-air missiles and anti-missile
flares used in combat aircraft, the records show. Several
license applications were stopped as a result of ACDA's
inquiry, a U.S. official says. ACDA was among the agencies
that cooperated with the inquiry by the State Department
inspector general.
   The State Department's Office of Defense Trade Controls,
which is part of the bureau of politico-military affairs,
issues more than 55,000 licenses a year for items on the U.S.
Munitions List, and must enforce export laws, making sure
that foreign end-users listed in license applications
actually receive the items. In March 1989, the General
Accounting Office developed evidence that some countries were
transferring U.S. defense items without obtaining re-export
licenses. In an inquiry later in 1989, Mr. Funk's inspectors
found the office seldom did end-user checks to verify how the
items were put to use, and the State Department reorganized
the office in January 1990.
   Last spring, Mr. Funk sent his auditors back to see how
the office was doing, and found a curious pattern. Reviewing
licenses for shipments to several countries, they noticed
that end-user checks had improved markedly, except in the
case of Israel. Indeed, despite thousands of commercial sales
to Israel, the State Department had done only three or four
end-user checks on exports to that country -- and none
involved significant major weapons systems, according to
people familiar with the inquiry.
   The inspector general's auditors pulled together
intelligence reports on Israeli arms activities and found
repeated instances where Israel was reported to have made
unauthorized sales of U.S. technology, the people say.
Further, they add, CIA officials briefed Mr. Funk, and State
Department files contained a 1990 letter from William
Webster, then the CIA director, confirming that U.S.
intelligence on unauthorized Israeli sales was considered
highly credible.
   Israeli officials have hinted in the past that they
received tacit approval from the Reagan administration to
re-export U.S. equipment without first seeking U.S. approval,
according to current and former U.S. government officials.
The subject came up at high levels of the Defense Department
in mid-1990 after officials reviewed U.S. intelligence
reports linking Israel to such schemes.
   This prompted Henry Rowen, then assistant secretary of
defense for international security affairs, to check out the
story. He was told by former Defense Secretary Caspar
Weinberger and Mr. Rowen's predecessor, Richard Armitage,
that no such agreement had been made, these officials say.
Mr. Rowen reported his findings to Defense Secretary Richard
Cheney.
   In an interview, Mr. Armitage confirms there was no tacit
understanding and says that more than once he told Israeli
officials of American suspicions that Israel was diverting
U.S. technology. "I do recall cautioning Israeli military
attaches that if I found proof that Israel was involved in
diverting technology, friendship aside, I would come down
hard on the state of Israel," says Mr. Armitage, now a senior
State Department official.