Marketing:
   Gardening Blooms as Baby Boomers Dig
   Into an Environmentally Correct Hobby
   ----
   By Christina Duff
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Gardening is a new undertaking for Mr. Radloff. Aside from
a "little watering and sweeping," he had never tended one. He
even stumbles trying to recall the names of his new plants.
But now, says his wife, an accountant, "we practically live
out there."
   Gardening is blossoming across the country as baby boomers
discover the stay-at-home hobby. It's inexpensive (or
fashionably extravagant), environmentally correct -- and, say
real estate brokers, it can increase the resale value of your
house.
   The nation's plant purveyors couldn't be happier. Last
year, industry sales sprouted 6.4% to $22.13 billion after
shooting up 27% the previous year to $20.80 billion, reports
the National Gardening Association, based in Burlington, Vt.
Sales of vegetable-related gardening products jumped 19% to
$1.65 billion in 1991.
   Baby boomers haven't had to abandon their trendy tastes
either; they just grow their favorite variety of Italian
lettuce themselves. Sales of culinary herbs -- another yuppie
favorite -- doubled industrywide in 1991 to $161 million,
says the gardening association. Affluent gardeners don't even
have to get too much dirt under their fingernails. Using
bedding plants rather than seeds simplifies and speeds up the
planting process. Much like cooking from prepared mixes,
"there's no chance of failure," says Bruce Butterfield, the
association's research director.
   At White Flower Farm, a gardening catalog company in
Litchfield, Conn., business is "definitely beginning to
build," says Steve Frowine, a horticulturist. Yuppie
gardeners want unusual, high-quality plants, he says, and
White Flower Farms offers such prizes as a new day lily
called Mallard in a "rich and strong" shade of red for
$12.95. Also popular are certain European and Asian
vegetables such as bok choy, for use in low-salt,
low-cholesterol meals, Mr. Frowine says. "It's obsessive," he
adds. "The boomers just keep acquiring things and buying the
best."
   Even giant Sears, Roebuck  Co., which can't seem to get
sales to bloom elsewhere in its merchandising group, is
cultivating record sales of lawn and garden products. They
jumped 9.5% in 1991 and 8.5% in 1990, and Bill Walker, a
buyer of nonpower lawn and garden products for Sears,
predicts more of the same.
   Pricey gardening accessories are also big sellers. At
Smith  Hawken, a Mill Valley, Calif., mail order company,
consumers are buying clothes for playing in the dirt. Popular
items include baggy pants with insertable knee pads and seven
roomy pockets for tools ($39), as well as plastic clogs with
removable rubber insoles ($34 a pair).
   Smith  Hawken says it can't keep enough of its hand tools
-- many of them imported from England -- on the shelves. Also
popular with environmentally conscious customers: its
composter line and "beneficial bug lure." Teak benches for
the garden -- made from plantation wood so they won't deplete
the rain forest -- are selling well despite price tags that
range from $500 to $2,000. "They're expensive," the
spokeswoman says, "but people are investing in their
gardens."
   White Flower Farm has increased the variety of tools it
offers to meet growing demand. Hot sellers include
"heavy-duty" trowels, which sell for $19.95, and hand
pruners, for $38.50, as well as a long-handled, foot-powered
bulb planter with a stainless steel blade that goes for
$72.50. And because many of the company's customers are
getting older, Mr. Frowine notes, stools that you can invert
to kneel on are "real popular." They cost $54.95.
   Another chic item: cans of Bag Balm. That's the "sticky,
funny smelling stuff" farmers use to keep cows' udders from
chafing, but gardeners have adopted it for their "overworked"
hands, Mr. Frowine says.
   Parents are also snapping up gardening paraphernalia for
their children. Gardener's Supply Co., a mail-order concern
in Burlington, Vt., has experienced "very steady sales
growth" since it opened in 1983, says spokesman Paul Conrad.
But sales of child-size products like its $29 wheelbarrow and
$24.95 hoe, rake and shovel set surged in 1991, he says.
"Gardening is a great family activity," Mr. Conrad says, "and
a great antidote to Saturday morning cartoons." He adds that
Gardener's Supply fields a steady string of requests for its
"Kids and Compost -- a Family Activity Guide."
   Baby boomers also pick up children's gardening products
from Nature Co., a Berkeley, Calif., tool and gift company.
Rob Forbes, vice president, marketing, says one hot seller is
a $14.95 garden set that includes fast-growing seeds, a mini
tool set and instructions on how to grow the seeds around a
tepee-like structure.
   Part of gardening's appeal is that it allows baby boomers
to demonstrate how environmentally sensitive they are.
Hot-selling items at Frank's Nursery  Crafts, the nation's
largest lawn-and-garden retailer, include organic pesticides
and bark mulches, which help conserve water and keep weeds
under control, says a spokeswoman for the General Host Corp.
unit.
   Mike McGrath, editor of Organic Gardening magazine, says
people are trying to wean themselves from garden chemicals
because they have become "very uncool." Like smokers who no
longer light up indoors, he says, chemical users will spray
only by night. "People are picking up organic gardening
because it's time to do it," he says.
   Bricker's Organic Farm in Augusta, Ga., has seen a
"noticeable increase" in business in the past two years, says
founder Bill Bricker. Its flagship product: Kricket Krap, a
natural fertilizer made from cricket manure. The painted
four-pound jars sell like hotcakes for $6.95 apiece through
Bricker's mail order service. "After they have a laugh, they
come back for more," says Mr. Bricker.
   Ringer Corp., a Minneapolis maker of natural lawn and
garden products, is selling more and more natural
fertilizers, pesticides and compost makers, which speed up
the composting process. A spokesman says the company's sales
have grown more than 50% over the past five years. "Some
people say this is a fad," he says, "but it's here to stay."
   Publishers are taking advantage of the growing interest in
gardening. A spokesman for Meredith Corp. says the Des Moines
media company's Country Home magazine just spun off the first
issue of Country Home Country Gardens. The company, which
publishes Better Homes  Gardens, also issued a
special-interest magazine called Garden Ideas and Outdoor
Living this year.
   The recession is also contributing to the gardening trend.
"A bad economy generally helps us," says Jim DeLash, direct
marketing manager at Burpee Seed Co., Warminster, Pa., where
flower seed sales are climbing. "The products people buy from
us aren't high-money purchases," he says. "You're likely to
cut back on buying a VCR or a new car, but you won't
eliminate gardening."
   The low price tag has attracted Rohm Gustafson to
gardening. The 31-year-old recently graduated from the
University of Washington with two liberal arts degrees but no
job offers. A temporary clerical worker now, Mr. Gustafson
keeps to a tight budget. "Going out to cheaper restaurants
and a haircut from time to time are my only big-ticket
activities," he says.
   Mr. Gustafson rents a 400-square-foot garden plot from the
P-Patch Program, a community garden service sponsored by
Seattle's department of housing and human services. Mr.
Gustafson figures he spends about $80 each year for the plot
and maintenance. "It's sort of gardening zen; it makes me
feel better," he says, and it puts some food on his table.
   With the weak economy keeping more people at home, some
consumers also see gardening as a low-cost way to make their
surroundings more attractive. Linda Brown, a Chicago postal
carrier, spruced up her neighborhood with red, yellow and
white flowering plants. Ms. Brown says she pinches pennies
when it comes to entertainment and new clothes. But she
splurges at Fertile Delta, a local nursery, where she is a
regular during her lunch hour. "Why buy a new dress if you
can buy a plant?" she asks.