Heard on the Street:
   Insider Sale
   Of Royce Labs
   Raises Questions
   ----
   By Laurie P. Cohen
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Filings show that since the generic-drug company's latest
public offering in January, its president and chief executive
officer, Patrick McEnany, has sold 200,000 Royce shares at
$6.10 each and filed plans to sell 100,000 more, for a total
of 24% of his Royce holdings. Rick Wilber, a director,
registered to sell 100,000 shares, or 25% of his stake.
   Shares of the Miami-based company have surged to within
hailing distance of double digits from 25 cents in last
year's first quarter. They got as high as 9 1/2 in recent
months before falling back to the vicinity of 7 lately.
   Could there be any problem with Royce's business that
might have led the insiders to want to sell?
   No way, says Mr. McEnany. "If I thought it {Royce's stock}
was overpriced, I would sell more of it, wouldn't I?" he
says. "In my opinion, if we meet our sales forecast for 1992,
I believe the stock is undervalued at these prices." He says
he's selling the stock to pay off certain "tax liabilities"
and because he needs cash.
   Mr. McEnany declines to offer specific projections. But he
describes as "pretty accurate" a projection by the company's
lead underwriter, Paradise Valley Securities, that Royce
could generate more than $30 million in sales between April
1992 and April 1993.
   Paradise Valley, based in Phoenix, Ariz., says its sales
estimate reflects Royce's position as the only company that
has received Food and Drug Administration approval to produce
a generic version of a brand-name drug known as Feldene,
starting in April. That's when the giant pharmaceutical
manufacturer Pfizer will lose its exclusive right to market
the drug.
   Feldene is an anti-inflammatory prescription drug used to
relieve the symptoms of arthritis. With a $330 million-a-year
domestic market, Feldene is regarded as one of the hottest
prescription drugs to come off patent this year.
   "If Feldene works out, this stock could go to two or three
or four times" where it is now trading "and not be
fundamentally overpriced," says Tony Silverman, president of
Paradise Valley.
   If Royce's generic Feldene product is so hot, why don't
insiders wait to sell? Sales predictions for Royce are way
off the mark, some analysts say.
   The FDA won't disclose how many other companies have
applied to market generic versions of the drug, but an
official there confirms that there were "more than a few" and
that others are likely to be approved.
   There are about 14 applications pending at the FDA for
Feldene, says Hemant Shah, an independent drug industry
analyst in Warren, N.J., who tracks generic-drug
manufacturers. "Over the next month or so, you'll see half of
them approved," he says. Royce, Mr. Shah says, was the first
approved because it applied much earlier than the other
companies.
   With so much competition come April, Mr. Shah figures --
and other analysts agree -- that the price of generic Feldene
will drop about 65% from the level at which Pfizer is
currently selling the drug. Mr. Shah predicts Royce's sales
will amount to "$10 to $15 million for the first 12 months"
after approval.
   Pfizer, for its part, says it isn't too worried about
Royce or other generic Feldene competitors. "We expect that
there will be competition from generic makers, and we factor
that into our business plan," a Pfizer spokesman says. The
company has fought back by developing a product it regards as
superior to Feldene. Pfizer says it will file for FDA
approval for the drug, known as Tenidap, this year. "We're
competing by coming out with a better product," says the
spokesman.
   None of these concerns seemed to be weighing on Royce's
stock price at the start of the year. Investors clamored to
participate in the company's Jan. 9 offering of additional
securities. Yet the two million new shares were offered to
the public at a discount-to-market price of $3 each, packaged
in a so-called unit offering that included both shares and
warrants.
   Mr. McEnany says the offering price was arranged in
October, when Royce shares were trading for little more than
$3. They began to climb above $4 in the week before the
offering, but Mr. McEnany says that by that time, "I couldn't
negotiate a better price with our underwriters," who he says
were prepared to scrap the deal if he insisted on a higher
price.
   The offering gave Royce a total of 27.7 million shares
outstanding, putting a $190 million current market value on a
company that had 1991 nine-month revenue of $1.2 million. The
stock stayed strong after the offering as investors salivated
at the thought of Royce's potential with a generic Feldene.
Mr. McEnany got $6.10 a share for the first 200,000 shares he
sold, filings show. Before selling, he held around 1,260,000
shares, excluding options to buy 252,000 shares for less than
one dollar apiece.
   Mr. McEnany says that Paradise Valley asked him to sell
some of his shares -- despite an assurance in the prospectus
that directors and executive officers wouldn't sell stock for
nine months after the offering "without the prior written
consent" of the underwriter. Paradise Valley confirms that it
did make such a request, "to make a better market."
   But securities lawyer Harvey Pitt, who isn't involved with
the Royce offering, says an assurance such as the one given
in the prospectus clearly marks "an intent not to sell."
What's more, Mr. Pitt says, the sale of a 24% stake "is a lot
of stock, and it should raise eyebrows."
   Paradise Valley's Mr. Silverman replies that these insider
sales are understandable because heightened trading volume in
the wake of last month's offering has made Royce securities
easier to trade. "If you own one million shares, you may
never have had a chance to sell before now," he says. He adds
that there are some other insiders "who might want to sell
before April."
   Mr. McEnany, 44 years old, has been president of Royce
since May 1990. He also heads Equisource Capital, a financial
consulting firm that worked for Royce. Years ago, Mr. McEnany
had a run-in with the National Association of Securities
Dealers, the self-regulatory group for the OTC stock market.
The NASD censured and barred him in 1975, when he was a
cooperating head of a firm known as CM Securities of
America. The NASD charged Mr. McEnany and another individual
with excessively marking up prices to customers and "parking"
securities to hide net capital violations.
   The prospectus for Royce's latest offering says nothing
about Mr. McEnany's NASD troubles. It mentions only that Mr.
McEnany was president of Equisource and was president, chief
executive and chief financial officer of Zenex Synthetic
Lubricants, a Miami-based public company, from 1973 until
1985.
   Mr. McEnany says his lawyer told him he wasn't obliged to
mention his NASD problem in the prospectus. Besides, he says,
the charge came "after I was out of the securities business,"
and he didn't attend an NASD hearing on the matter because he
wasn't advised of the hearing.
   ---
   Royce Labs
                                                                                                       

   Business: Generic drugs
                                                                                                       

   Nine months ended Sept. 30, 1991:
   Sales: $1.2 million
   Net Income: $115,804*, or 1 cent a share
                                                                                                       

   Third quarter, Sept. 30, 1991:**
   Net Income: $2,108 vs. (net loss: $72,719)
                                                                                                       

   Average daily trading volume: 427,560 shares
                                                                                                       

   Common shares outstanding: 27.7 million
                                                                                                       

   *Includes $345,828 extraordinary credit
   **Latest quarter results include $2,010 loss vs. $7,683
credit as extraordinary item.