Management:
   Firms Run by Executive Teams
   Can Reap Rewards, Incur Risks
   ----
   By Amanda Bennett
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
At many other companies these days, individual presidents
and chief operating officers are becoming outmoded as
companies name three, four or even more people to run
operations collectively.
   Experience suggests that these arrangements are fraught
with peril. Some have developed by default, when a single
strong leader apparently couldn't be selected. Others have
been ad hoc arrangements meant to steer troubled companies
past some problems. Some of these structures fell victim to
the ambition of one or more members. Others collapsed in
bickering and secretiveness.
   Still, a growing number of companies seem to think that
the potential benefits far outweigh the risks.
   "We are changing to be more responsive and to make our
company more productive," says Xerox Chairman Paul Allaire.
Says a spokesman for Microsoft: "To keep on growing, a new
organizational structure was required."
   Some past power-sharing arrangements have been thinly
disguised competitions for the top spot. Among the most
well-known was the three-man team established by Citicorp's
former chairman, Walter Wriston. It led to the selection of
John Reed, the current chief executive. Back in the early
1980s, Chemical Bank, General Electric Co., and GTE Corp.
also set up such horse races.
   Such systems were criticized, however, because they
emphasized competition rather than cooperation. What's more,
when one person emerged as a clear winner, the losers often
left the company.
   David Nadler, president of Delta Consulting Group in New
York, who helped design the Xerox structure, says competition
for the top job -- either covert or overt -- is the main
threat to team leadership in the executive suite.
   "The biggest single issue is succession," he says.
Usually, there is only one true top person, he notes,
explaining: "You either work for him or leave. That makes it
much more of a zero-sum game."
   Both Xerox and Microsoft say that succession won't be an
issue in their arrangements. For one thing, neither company's
chief executive acknowledges any immediate thoughts of
leaving. William Gates III, co-founder and chairman of
Microsoft, is firmly ensconced, and the company has just
forced out its president in favor of the new arrangement, a
three-person "office of the president" to be shared by three
longtime employees.
   "There are no plans to replace the triumvirate with a
single president any time in the foreseeable future," says
the Microsoft spokesman.
   Other companies found that cooperation was hard to achieve
in any case. A three-man office of the president at National
Steel Corp. suffered from reluctance in information-sharing
and had to be revamped. Ultimately, the arrangement was
scrapped about three years after it was started; it was
replaced by a nine-man Japanese-style management committee
that reflected the company's status as a joint venture
between a Japanese and a U.S. company.
   Xerox's Mr. Allaire says cooperation is one of the goals
of the new structure at the top. "I would hope that we have
been clear enough that one of the criteria of this new
organization is working together," he says. To underscore the
issue, he says future Xerox leaders will be drawn only from
those who can cooperate: "Anyone who isn't a team player
would be automatically excluded from succession," he says.
   Good personal relationships among office members are
important, too. Mr. Nadler, the consultant, says of one group
arrangement at another company that ultimately led to two of
the three people involved leaving, "All of them were
ambitious people who didn't have high regard for each other."
   At Microsoft, the three-person group consists of
executives who have long worked closely with each other. Two
of the officials have working relationships that predate
Microsoft.
   At Xerox, says Allan E. Dugan, a senior vice president and
member of the new committee, "Paul Allaire wanted to make
sure {about} the personalities of the people in the corporate
office. He probably selected them for their collegial type of
attitude."
   Sometimes even the most successful of these arrangements
outlives its usefulness. At Corning Inc., a seven-man
management committee that had helped run the company for
seven years was disbanded a little over a year ago. It was
replaced by a more traditional structure of chairman,
president, vice chairmen and executive vice presidents.
   The committee structure had been used while the company
was changing its strategic direction and developing new
markets. When those businesses grew large enough to require
management on their own, the committee members were assigned
to specific operating tasks.
   The growing interest in top-management teams stems partly
from the increasing complexity of decision-making,
specialists say. "The complexity of the task is becoming
overwhelming for one person," says Deborah Ancona, associate
professor of organizational studies at the Sloan School of
Management at Massachusetts Institute of Technology. "There
is too much for the CEO to do himself."
   The need to respond rapidly to changing markets means that
"work that used to be done sequentially now must be done in
parallel," Ms. Ancona adds.
   At Xerox, the six-person committee will meet once a week
or more, sharing supervision of geographic regions and of
nine newly formed business divisions. While each executive
will have some specific area of responsibility, the company
has also revised the top-executive compensation plan to make
the bulk of compensation relate to the overall results of the
company, not just to the executive's own area.