International:
   Economics Underpins Agreement
   On North Korean Nuclear Sites
   ----
   By Damon Darlin
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
"We still don't know what is going on in the minds of the
North Korea leadership," said a South Korean government
analyst. "But it seems clearer now that its main motivation
is economic."
   Many South Korean and U.S. officials have always worried
that North Korea is trying to delay inspection of its nuclear
facilities and will make gestures to buy itself time. It
still isn't clear with this agreement whether international
inspection, of the sort that was conducted recently in Iraq,
will be allowed, analysts said.
   However, North Korea took a major step by pledging that it
won't test, manufacture, produce, introduce, possess, store,
deploy or use nuclear weapons. Moreover, it pledged not to
reprocess or enrich nuclear fuel, a step needed for the
manufacture of weapons-grade nuclear materials. South Korea
had made this pledge in early December. If the two countries
abide by their agreement, it would make the Korean peninsula
a nuclear-weapons free zone.
   The problem of mutual inspection of North and South Korean
nuclear facilities and military bases will be left up to a
joint "nuclear control committee," which will set up the
rules and procedures. This could be done as early as
mid-February, South Korean officials said. The two countries'
prime ministers will initial the agreement at their next
meeting Feb. 19.
   To get Tuesday's agreement, South Korea had to drop its
demand that North Korea sign, ratify and implement an
international inspection treaty by Jan. 15. North Korea
agreed to issue a separate statement later pledging to sign
the safeguards agreement with the International Atomic Energy
Agency and allow neutral inspections by the end of this
month. North Korean officials said during the talks that
signing the safeguards agreement is a matter between it and
the IAEA and it did not want to appear to sign the safeguards
measure under pressure.
   South Korea has been consulting closely with its main
allies, the U.S. and Japan, about its talks with North Korea.
President Bush is expected to affirm U.S. support for South
Korea's initiatives during his state visit to Seoul Jan. 5.
Japanese Prime Minister Kiichi Miyazawa visits Seoul Jan. 16,
when he will discuss Japan's efforts to improve relations
with Pyongyang.
   The progress shown in Tuesday's agreement is important
because it helps push forward the sweeping
"confidence-building" measures the two Koreas agreed to in an
earlier pact. Those measures, which could lead to greater
economic and social contacts with isolated North Korea, were
put on a separate track from the nuclear question. They
include connecting severed roads and railways, postal and
telecommunications contacts and contacts between families
separated by more than four decades of conflict. South Korean
television reported Wednesday that the presidents of the two
countries would hold a summit in March.
   South Korea also has strong economic incentives for
furthering economic contacts with North Korea. South Korean
industry, beset by rising wages and falling competitiveness,
looks to North Korea as a place to set up a low-wage
industrial base close to home. Indeed, South Korean President
Roh Tae-Woo said in his New Year's speech that, "In the wake
of the Cold War, competition for greater prosperity between
countries and regions has become quite intense."
   But cash-rich Japan will probably be the main beneficiary
of the eventual opening of North Korea, with 21 million
people.
   Greater contact between the two Koreas makes North Korea
nervous because it may expose its people to outside ideas and
breed discontent as outside contact did in eastern Europe. It
is likely that North Korea will channel investment to areas
that can be contained, as China has done with its economic
zones. An area near the border of the Soviet Union and China,
along the Tumen River, is often cited as the most likely
investment area.
   North Korean radio reports this week announced plans to
create two economic zones on the northeast coast, offering
foreign investors tax incentives. The ports in Rajin and
Sonbong districts and the nearby Chongjin port will be
free-trade ports, the radio reports said.