Advertising:
   Snack Makers
   Cook Up Stars
   For Kiddie TV
   ----
   By Joanne Lipman
Kraft General Foods, maker of such kiddie staples as
Kool-Aid and macaroni and cheese dinners, may be next. Inside
Media, a trade publication, reports today that Kraft is
considering a syndicated cartoon show starring Cheeseasaurus
Rex, a cheese-colored dinosaur who appears in ads for its
macaroni and cheese dinners. A spokeswoman says it is
"premature" to discuss the cartoon, which "is one of many
exploratory avenues we're looking into."
   "Sickening," is how critic Peggy Charren, of Boston-based
Action for Children's Television, describes the latest wave
of advertiser-driven kiddie shows. "You'll have kids in the
'90s fighting over whether they should watch the `Tony the
Tiger' show or the `Energizer Bunny' show."
   In the mid-1980s, virtually every hot toy on the market
had its own cartoon, from GI Joe to My Little Pony. Most of
those shows eventually died -- not because of the critics'
complaints and demands for government intervention, but
because of poor ratings.
   But using cartoon mascots is even worse than using toys as
children's-show characters, Ms. Charren charges. Created by
ad agencies only to push products, they have no reason for
being other than to sell. Worse, such programs so far are
associated with fast food and snacks, not even with toys that
might encourage play and imagination. Ms. Charren's group
plans to petition the Federal Communications Commission this
month to stop "Chester Cheetah," and she has already
complained about the McDonald's Christmas show.
   The companies involved all insist they're treading
carefully to avoid crossing the line between programming and
advertising. A Frito-Lay spokesman emphasizes a final deal
with Fox hasn't been reached, but adds that if the show goes
on, Cheetos won't be advertised or identified during "Chester
Cheetah," and the cheesy cat won't be shown eating during the
program.
   "The challenge is to maintain that distinction, but to
explore a character that children may have first seen in
another vehicle," says Helen Boehm, a vice president of the
Fox Children's Network, a unit of News Corp.'s Fox Inc.
   Still, Chester Cheetah's personality was clearly forged in
ads. The Cheetos cheetah is sort of a Joe Camel of the
junk-food set. The ultimate cool dude -- he has been known to
ride a motorcycle, and he plugs a skateboard offer on current
Cheetos packages -- inevitably goes bonkers over Cheetos. In
ads, the cartoon mascot, introduced in 1986, typically ends
up on the receiving end of a stampede for Cheetos.
   At CBS, a spokesman says the Ronald McDonald Christmas
special, which included McDonald's ads during commercial
breaks, was "consistent with CBS guidelines" and FCC rules.
   And the Fido Dido character, who announces CBS cartoons'
commercial breaks, has a life outside of being a Slice
endorser; the character started out as the star of a popular
cartoon book. United Media, which licenses the Peanuts
characters, licenses Fido Dido to both CBS and Slice.
   Fox's Ms. Boehm once worked on the side of the critics, as
head of the Children's Advertising Review Unit of the Better
Business Bureau. "We all are concerned about helping children
understand that there are aspects of commercial TV that are
commercialized," she says. But she insists broadcasters like
Fox are acting responsibly -- because they have to: "They
want to be in business for the long term."
   ---
   Geer Dubois Loses Billings
                                                                                                       

   Brown  Williamson Tobacco Corp. dumped New York agency
Geer, Dubois, pulling at least $20 million in billings for
its Capri and Raleigh cigarette accounts as well as its
lucrative media-buying business.
   The company, a Louisville, Ky., unit of British-based
B.A.T Industries, said it hasn't decided which of its other
agencies -- Campbell-Mithun-Esty's New York office, or
Chicago agency Tatham RSCG -- would win the accounts. But
several industry executives said they expected CME, a unit of
Saatchi  Saatchi, to land them. A decision is expected by
the end of the week.
   BW explained the move as a natural consolidation as it
reduces ad spending in traditional media. But Geer Dubois
President John Hayes said the split stemmed from a 1989
computer error, in which the agency overbilled the tobacco
client for media. Mr. Hayes said the amount was refunded,
with interest, once the agency discovered its error. One
insider said it amounted to less than $1 million.
   The loss couldn't come at a worse time for Geer Dubois,
which invested heavily in the proprietary computer system for
tracking media spending for clients. It has tried to sell
that service to its own clients with little success, in part
because rival agencies have been reluctant to cooperate in
providing spending data for the system.
   ---
   Anti-Smoking Ads
                                                                                                       

   Philip Morris Cos.'s domestic tobacco unit agreed for the
first time to run ads with anti-smoking messages as part of
its sponsorship of a major road race in New York.
   The company said the messages would appear on billboards,
bus shelters, taxis and in trains from mid-July through
September and would be directed at children. Some 1,100
anti-smoking ads will be placed, or 30% of the total Marlboro
advertising Philip Morris expects to use in the New York area
before the race.
   The spots would carry a message "in the vein of `Philip
Morris doesn't want kids to smoke,'" said a company
spokesman. The Marlboro Grand Prix is set for Sept. 20,
pending final approval by the city.
   Philip Morris is sponsoring the race, one of the PPG Indy
Car World Series. The race be run in the downtown financial
district of Manhattan.
   ---
   Vick Moves to Landor
                                                                                                       

   Ed Vick, former chief executive of Grey Advertising's
now-defunct Levine, Huntley, Vick  Beaver, was named
president and chief executive of Landor Associates, a unit of
Young  Rubicam.
   Industry executives had been watching carefully to see
where Mr. Vick would land. Grey said it hoped he would remain
at Grey after it folded Levine last year. The move is
somewhat surprising since San Francisco-based Landor is a
brand identity and package design firm, not an ad agency. Mr.
Vick succeeds Donald Casey, who becomes chairman.