Potomac Watch --
   Bill Clinton:
   A Politician
   First, and Forever
   ----
   By Paul A. Gigot
The Rhodes Scholar went on to write from Oxford that, "For
years I have worked to prepare myself for a political life
characterized by both practical political ability and concern
for rapid social progress."
   Mull that over. Is that how most 23-year-olds think? Still
a student, he had already been planning a life in politics
"for years." Elsewhere in the letter he writes with fervor,
and some poignancy, about his opposition to the Vietnam War,
certainly an honorable position. Yet he was willing to
jettison those convictions to maintain "political viability."
   His supporters say the letter reveals a man who has
thoughtfully wrestled with the moral dilemma of the Vietnam
War. But personal anguish, which the letter certainly shows,
is not the same as moral confliction.
   Mr. Clinton wasn't painfully choosing between two
principles -- duty to country vs. opposition to what he
thought was an unjust war. He was choosing instead between
his principles and his ambition. Deep in his Southern heart,
he knew his anti-war convictions would haunt the political
calculations that even then burned inside him.
   More than opposition to a war that many Americans also
opposed, this transparent political ambition is the root
infection destroying his candidacy. Mr. Clinton has revealed
himself in New Hampshire as the kind of modern political
professional that Alan Ehrenhalt describes in his fascinating
book, "The United States of Ambition." American politics
today is full of women and men who have devoted their lives
to nothing but politics; it is the only thing they know.
   Mr. Clinton is an archetype. Only a year out of Yale Law
School, he ran for Congress in 1974 but lost. Two years later
he ran and won a race for state attorney general. Only two
years later, at age 32, he ran and won a race for governor.
When he lost a re-election bid in 1980, he nominally joined a
law firm.
   But, as his friends have acknowledged, he began
campaigning for a 1982 comeback virtually the day after his
defeat. He has been governor ever since, pining to be
president all the time. While Sen. Bob Kerrey went to war and
opened restaurants, and Paul Tsongas fought cancer and
practiced law, Mr. Clinton practiced only politics.
   This is not to say that presidential ambitions cannot be
noble; even Lincoln had to be ambitious. But Mr. Clinton's
letter reveals his dreams almost as a singular obsession.
More important, even before this draft controversy, Mr.
Clinton's entire campaign showed a man preoccupied with the
technique and gamesmanship of his candidacy as much as with
its cause.
   Recall that Mr. Clinton began his campaign as the Southern
alternative to traditional liberalism. He would substitute
"message" -- the word he and his advisers like to use -- for
biography. He spoke of a "new covenant" between citizens and
government. But once he became front-runner in New Hampshire,
he slipped into poll-driven sound-bites. His passion in life
became the "forgotten middle-class." (Forgotten by whom?)
   His message became elastic, and elusive, enough to attract
both New York City's public-employee unions (hardly
"new-covenant" types) and the moderate Democratic Leadership
Council. He tap-danced around such issues as health care and
trade. As Joe Klein, the astute New York magazine reporter,
put it: "If left to his own devices, Clinton tends to
describe issues rather than take stands on them." Asked in
the first Democratic debate who outside of his political
circle he sought for advice, Mr. Clinton seemed at a loss.
   So, too, Mr. Clinton's reaction to the military service
charge has been couched mainly in the language of tactical
politics. It is, he said standing on the front steps of a
foreclosed home here on Tuesday, another product of the
"Republican attack machine." It was "the negative politics of
distraction," he said, wagging his finger at the press.
   Voters were forming their own impressions of the political
Bill Clinton even before this week. Last Sunday, I wandered
around a "town meeting" here for Paul Tsongas. Marilyn Quail
(no relation to the Republicans of Indiana), a secretary
here, had been solidly behind Mr. Clinton but was turning to
Mr. Tsongas. "He doesn't tell me what I want to hear," she
said, referring to his opposition to Mr. Clinton's
"middle-class tax cut."
   Ed Kirby, now retired from the military and a Reagan-Bush
voter from 1980 to 1988, explained that this year he too
favored Mr. Tsongas. Why not Mr. Clinton? "Clinton to me
comes across as a smooth-talking politician," he said.
   This year of public disaffection with politics is an
especially bad year to have raw ambition exposed. It may not
be Mr. Clinton's past that is haunting him, but his lack of
one.