The Americas:
   Colombia's Crude Mix of Oil Rights and `Magic Realism'
   ----
   By Jimmy Weiskopf
Of course, Colombia's economy needn't rely solely on its
mineral wealth. Despite its violent reputation, Colombia is
the safest place in Latin America for foreign investments,
according to a 1990 poll by International Investor magazine.
The Colombian government has demonstrated its belief in a
market economy by privatizing inefficient state companies,
lowering tariffs and easing restrictions on foreign
investments and dollar imports.
   Nevertheless, Colombia still has vestiges of the
not-quite-bygone mercantilist mentality. Constantly changing
rules for investment and property rights have confused
investors. These rule changes -- together, of course, with
the drug and guerrilla crises -- led to a 40% drop in foreign
investments in 1990. And such investments will be vital if
the country is to tap fully the potential of the new oil
find. The problem is that the oil-rights controversy itself
has come to epitomize the problems associated with the
ambiguity of laws governing property rights.
   The drama began last March, when British Petroleum, a
French company called Total and a small (and, at that time,
nearly bankrupt) U.S. company, Triton, announced that they
had discovered reserves now estimated at more than two
billion barrels -- the second-largest ever found in the
Americas, after Prudhoe Bay, Alaska.
   The price of Triton's shares multiplied 10 times in six
months. The multinational oil community -- which, fed up with
guerrilla terrorism, had begun withdrawing from joint
ventures with the state oil company (Ecopetrol) -- began
lining up to buy exploration rights. In the midst of all this
euphoria, however, 56 upper-class Colombians produced legal
documents that showed that Cusiana's mineral rights, thought
to belong to Ecopetrol, belonged, at least in part, to them.
   These claims go back to an incident in 1759, when a group
of cattle farmers obtained a land grant from the Spanish
crown for a modest ranch. Through illegal appropriations,
this claim grew to almost one million acres. The illegal
seizures remained unchallenged for nearly two centuries
until, in 1920, an eccentric general with a passion for
history discovered the fraud, denounced the seizure and was
rewarded with 45% of the property (the part where oil has now
been found) by a grateful Colombian government.
   Initially the general's gift did not include mineral
rights. But in 1937, a local judge ceded the general these
rights as they flew over the lands in a DC-3. Since no one
was thinking of oil at the time, the matter aroused little
interest. But when oil was discovered there in the late
1960s, the Colombian Supreme Court and two Colombian
presidents were drawn into the dispute.
   The matter was apparently resolved in 1971, when
then-President Misael Pastrana confirmed the general's claims
-- despite a 1969 law that states that mineral rights belong
to the nation. On this basis, Ecopetrol entered into royalty
agreements with the general's heirs (and those they had sold
land to) when it began drilling in the area in the 1970s.
   The owners currently receive about $500,000 annually from
previous explorations. But if Cusiana lives up to
expectations, their royalties may multiply a hundredfold,
even though they are asking for just 4% of Ecopetrol's share
of the profits. In addition to its size, most of the oil in
Cusiana is high-grade light condensed fuel, which commands
higher prices in international markets than the ordinary
crude. And there are also huge deposits of natural gas.
   In October -- in a decision that caused Triton's stock to
fall $6 a share -- the Colombian Council of State refused an
appeal by the Ministry of Mining and Energy to rule the 1971
presidential decree unconstitutional, saying that it
shouldn't have waited 20 years before deciding that the
rights of the state had been violated. A month later it
reversed itself and said that there was no time limit in
cases benefiting the public interest.
   Meanwhile, the Colombian state prosecutor announced that
the current royalty contracts were illegal, and the president
of Ecopetrol denounced the fact that "this newly discovered
wealth will benefit . . . just 12 rich families." Even M-19,
the former guerrilla group that is now a legal political
party, chimed in, announcing that it will sponsor a law to
ensure the government's exclusive right to Cusiana's oil. The
Mining Ministry filed a separate appeal, alleging that the
mineral rights of the 12 families are invalid because the
1969 law limits such claims to the place where drillings had
previously been made -- an argument that has led scores of
landowners in surrounding areas to begin poking holes in
their land.
   The legal wrangles also caused headaches for Ecopetrol's
multinational partners. Some of their rivals reportedly have
compiled a complete list of the names and phone numbers of
the 56 claimants. But President Cesar Gaviria personally
assured representatives of BP, Total and Triton that their
contracts remain valid, and Ecopetrol says that no foreign
company will be permitted to deal behind its back.
   While Colombia's new Constitution theoretically gives the
state the right to expropriate any lands for a public
utility, this might be considered a dangerous precedent for
arbitrary state action. What the government may do in the end
is negotiate the royalties of the families down to a more
reasonable level -- one that will placate public opinion,
reassure the capitalists and satisfy the landowners. And it
could always tax their royalties, if it wished. What's clear
is that Colombia must establish clear rules for property
rights and stick to them.
   ---
   Mr. Weiskopf is a free-lance writer based in Bogota.