Salomon Guarantees Pay Pool for Analysts
   ----
   By Michael Siconolfi
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Those who have left include bank analyst Thomas Hanley,
who went to First Boston Corp.; computer analyst Steven
Milunovich and chemical analyst Leslie Ravitz, both to Morgan
Stanley Group Inc.; and Michele Guite, to Dillon, Read  Co.
   Salomon's analysts, like many others at the firm, depend
for the bulk of their pay on a bonus pool that the Salomon
Inc. unit determines at year end. Under the action by
Salomon's executive committee, the pay pool for 1992 will be
20% to 25% higher than the 1991 pool, people familiar with
the plan said. The plan virtually assures that Salomon stock
analysts who stay with the firm each will receive fatter
paychecks this year. And the firm offered some Salomon stock
analysts guaranteed minimum pay levels for the year, the
people said.
   Salomon, as well as many other Wall Street firms,
historically has offered pay pools that rise and fall based
on the firm's profitability. Although many Wall Street firms
have offered guaranteed contracts to individual employees, it
is unusual for the pay pool for an entire group of employees
to be guaranteed before profits are determined.
   A Salomon spokesman declined to discuss details of the
guaranteed pay plan, but said, "Compensation discussions are
a part of any strategic planning process."
   In the wake of Salomon's Treasury-auction bidding scandal,
the firm's new management has slashed costs -- dismissing
many highly paid, high-ranking employees -- and cut back the
power and the bonuses of its stock and investment-banking
groups as the firm returns to its roots as a bond trading
house.
   The guaranteed pay plan is a welcome relief for Salomon's
battered stock-research group. Many Salomon analysts thought
the firm's new management misjudged their significance to the
firm by cutting bonuses. The latest pay plan shows that
senior management hasn't abandoned its commitment to stock
research, several Salomon officials and others said.
   "This is a message of stability to Salomon's research
analysts," said Joan Zimmerman, executive vice president of
G.Z. Stephens Inc., a New York executive search firm. She
said that Salomon management is telling its analysts: "Yes,
we are committed to you; yes, you have value."
   More broadly, Salomon's executive committee "has come to
the conclusion that if you don't have equities, maybe you
don't have as good a bond house as you may have thought," a
Salomon executive said.
   But the move could backfire. That's because it could lead
other Salomon departments to ask for the same pay guarantees,
setting off the kind of infighting that erupted after special
pay packages were negotiated in 1990 for Salomon's
bond-arbitrage group. Indeed, Salomon's stock
sales-and-trading operations now are asking for a similar pay
guarantee, the people said.
   The new directive seems to run counter to the pay
philosophy of Warren Buffet, Salomon's interim chairman. Mr.
Buffett, in a public letter to Salomon shareholders in
October, said the "new" Salomon will pay for performance in
the wake of its Treasury scandal. Mr. Buffett said: "Were an
abnormal number of people to leave the firm, the results
would not necessarily be bad."
   In the same letter, however, Mr. Buffett also noted that
research performance is difficult to quantify, and said that
the firm's compensation plans should "recognize that some
business units earn relatively little in profits but deliver
valuable, if hard to quantify, collateral benefits to the
firm."
   In an unrelated shift, the pay pool for Salomon's
investment banking department will be divided into various
segments, such as domestic corporate finance and real estate,
people familiar with Salomon said. Salomon this year will
calculate its bonuses based on business units operating as
independent profit centers, rather than on the profitability
of the firm as a whole.