REVIEW  OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   Altered States
Governor Engler has eliminated a $1 billion deficit
without resorting to the sort of tax increases that older
conventional wisdom would dictate. Believing that fiscal
prudence must begin at home, he's used his line-item veto to
cut $100 million in pork-barrel spending, including several
programs he supported when he was a leader in the state
legislature. The Governor reduced his staff by 40% and
ordered his department heads to find ways to contract out
services to private firms.
   Massachusetts' Bill Weld used his State of the State
message to announce, believe it or not, a tax cut. Saying he
wanted to cast aside "the last vestiges of the old insulting
label, `Taxachusetts,'" he proposed that the state's income
tax, which was lowered to 5.95% this month from 6.25%, be
further reduced to 5.75% this year and to 5% by the end of
1994. His critics in once-liberal Massachusetts, still unable
to figure out the link between lower taxes and economic
incentives, are agog.
   The Governor also proposed a package of business-tax
reductions, including zeroing out the state's 6% tax on
capital gains on assets, though unfortunately only for those
assets held over six years. Last year, the state's budget was
cut 7% in real terms, its credit rating may soon climb out of
the bond-market cellar and there is a small budget surplus.
To guard against a return to "madcap spending habits,"
Governor Weld proposed a constitutional amendment requiring a
two-thirds vote of both houses of the legislature for any tax
increases.
   California Governor Pete Wilson has abandoned his strategy
of negotiating with an anti-reform legislature (Bush White
House take note) and is taking his case for welfare and
budget changes straight to the people in the form of an
initiative. He has also made favorable noises about parental
choice in education, an issue that will also face California
voters this year in an initiative.
   Even some Democratic Governors have caught the public mood
for innovation in public policy. New Jersey's Jim Florio
signed into law a bill that would combat illegitimacy by
denying extra state payments to mothers who have more
children while they are on welfare. Governor Florio and the
bill's author, black Assemblyman Wayne Bryant, say similar
policies should be adopted nationally. It's noteworthy that
Bill Clinton, the self-described "candidate of common sense,"
says he would have vetoed New Jersey's welfare reform bill.
   In New York, Governor Mario Cuomo has proposed a lean
budget that would grow only 1.4% over last year's levels.
Accompanying it are significant reforms in welfare and
Medicare spending. And after years of excuses for why
privatization couldn't be tried in New York, the Governor has
taken his first baby steps down that run: Last month, the
state of New York finally sold three ski resorts that it
owned.
   There was a time when anyone with a good public-policy
idea went to Washington, where their vision was routinely
chopped up and spat out in unrecognizable form by a
Congressional Cuisinart. Congress, which today sits as a
temple to the status quo, is probably planning the same fate
for most of the proposals that President Bush will make
tonight. With so few signs of vitality in Washington, the
ferment at the state and local level is most welcome.