Russian Orthodox Church Becomes
   Stronger, More Controversial Voice
   ----
   By Elisabeth Rubinfien
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
"The most dangerous thing for Russia is religious and
spiritual pluralism," he says. "Moscow isn't a Babylon for
second cults, for protestant congregations who resemble wild
wolves rushing in here or Catholics like thieves using their
billions to try to occupy new territory. Democracy is an idol
that will be broken like communism was."
   Father Artyom is a fundamentalist, but his heated words
reflect a persistent strain of xenophobia in the Russian
Orthodox Church. And as one of the institutions that is
filling the vacuum left behind by collapsing Soviet
authority, that church is daily becoming a stronger, more
powerful, more controversial voice.
   It is also helping to rejuvenate Russia. As Russians
struggle to rediscover a sense of national identity, the
church is a vital preserve of pre-Soviet Russian culture. And
as the republic grapples with its role as a pillar amid the
debris that was once the Soviet Union, the church's potential
political influence is great.
   At the same time, sectarian conflicts are increasing as
religion makes a comeback across the former Soviet Union.
From the predominantly Muslim Central Asian republics to the
Catholic Ukraine, religion is filling the gap left by the
death of the communist ideology. Churches, temples and
mosques are reopening and parishes are swelling. Religious
programs punctuate Sunday television programming and even
before the failed coup attempt, state television wished a
happy passover to Soviet Jews.
   Against that backdrop, the role the Russian Orthodox
Church is playing concerns some. "Russia is returning to a
19th-century imperial national state," worries Tair Tairov, a
Moscow specialist on Central Asia, "and the church is helping
this national policy."
   The church heirarchy maintains that it has no interest in
politics. Yet almost every day brings new evidence that the
church and the Russian government are forging strong links.
Church officials speak out on a myriad of political issues,
and politicians strengthen their legitimacy by openly
attending religious celebrations and inviting priests to
preside over political events, as they did in czarist times.
   When Boris Yeltsin was inaugurated as Russia's first-ever
popularly elected president last July, leaders of various
religions took front-row seats at the Kremlin's marble Palace
of Congresses. But only Patriarch Aleksii II took the stage,
his long robes resplendent, to bless the event. He spoke at
length, openly referring to the nation's political struggles.
And he used the opportunity to further the church's own
cause: "We hope that Russia's new president will assist the
return to the church of its ancient sacred places, shrines
and cloisters," he said.
   The Moscow patriarchate hastens to describe itself as
ecumenical. Traveling to the U.S. for the first time last
month Patriarch Aleksii met Christian and Jewish religious
leaders as well as President George Bush.
   Yet shortly before leaving on his mission of friendship,
the patriarch called on Russians to rally against Catholic
expansionism in Russia. Under the gold domes of Moscow's
Danilovsky Monastery, the church's headquarters, archpriest
Viktor Petluchenko, vice chairman of the Department for
External Church Relations, explains that a Western blueprint
of democracy and pluralism won't do for the rebuilding of
Russia. "It must be done our own way, by our own culture and
religion," he says.
   The ordinary Russian believer, meanwhile, echoes the
age-old litany: "To be Russian is to be Orthodox."
Historically, the Russian Orthodox Church worked side-by-side
with the empire's rulers; the czar had a religious role, and
the bishops meddled in politics. It was only thanks to Peter
the Great's subjugation of the patriarchate in 1721 that
Russia opened a crack to the West. But as the church became
subservient to the state, it also grew corrupt. By the early
20th century, elements in the church fostered the growth of
the Black Hundred, armed extremists that carried out violent
pogroms against intellectuals, liberals and Jews.
   No one is talking about church-led pogroms today. But
Baptists, Catholics, Jews, Muslims and others in Russia feel
pressure from the revitalization of the Russian Orthodox
Church. Although the church's leaders try to foster good
relations, they say, local priests who influence regional
parishes don't necessarily toe the line of the heirarchy.
   Last year in a small town in the Domadedovo region some 30
miles southeast of Moscow, the Baptists -- one of the most
successful evangelical faiths here -- had agreed with the
largest local state farm to rent a building there to open a
house of study. The papers were drawn up and the money
transferred. At the last minute, at a community meeting,
villagers suddenly started standing up and demanding that the
Baptists keep out. It turned out that the local Russian
Orthodox priest had ignited his parish, says Reverend Grigori
Komendant, president of the Union of Evangelical Christians
-- Baptists of the U.S.S.R. As a result, the state farm
authorities backed out of the deal.
   "Neither before the revolution nor after, nor now do we
have the same rights as the orthodox church," says Mr.
Komendant. "I predict it will go the same way as in
pre-revolutionary times; we don't expect repression, but we
expect discreditation. We'll be second class."
   In some areas, Russian Orthodox chauvinism has even led to
violence. Tens of thousands of Ukrainian Catholics and
Orthodox believers have clashed repeatedly and painfully over
the ownership of churches in the Ukraine. Although both
faiths follow the Eastern Byzantine rite, the Catholics
retain allegiance to Rome. They want to regain churches that
were theirs until 1946, when Western Ukraine was taken over
by Moscow and Joseph Stalin liquidated the Catholic church,
passing its properties to the Russian Orthodox Church.
   Since then, Ukrainian Catholics survived through
underground worship, while the Russian Orthodox Church
symbolized Moscow's control over the Ukraine. As the
Ukrainian independence movement has grown in the last two
years, the Catholic church also started to emerge and expand,
today boasting some 2,300 operating parishes.
   But every church reclaimed by the Catholics is one lost to
the Russian Orthodox Church. The community of Lvov, for
example, has decided to return seven of the eight local
churches to Catholicism. The Moscow patriarchy accuses the
Catholics of representing Western interests, trying to stamp
out orthodoxy in Ukraine, and by extension, oppress Russians
living there.
   At its extreme, Russian nationalism is tied to a
Slavophile tradition that preaches asceticism and
anti-Western isolationism. Ironically, as Russians seek a
better standard of living through Western-style market
economics, many are also seeking comfort from priests who
denounce the dangers brought by the West.
   Priests like Father Artyom can be found as far away as
Vladivostok on the Japan Sea coast. There, a young woman
sells religious writings to raise money to rebuild a small
church. A group of grandmothers in kerchiefs share bread at a
rickety picnic table in a nearby patch of dirt.
   Viktor Schurov, the deacon, explains the dangers faced by
his parishioners. "Western culture is essentially atheistic
or satanist, and our young people are very very susceptible,"
he says. "I don't want us to be better off, because when we
have full freedom, we somehow don't care as much for our
belief."