Macy Files for Chapter 11, Listing Assets
   Of $4.95 Billion, Liabilities of $5.32 Billion
   ---
   Analysts Say Retail Chain
   May Need Two Years
   To Restructure Debt
   ----
   By Jeffrey A. Trachtenberg and George Anders
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
"We have known for some time that Macy's had more debt
than is desirable in such a weak economy," said Macy Chairman
Edward Finkelstein in a statement. "We worked day and night
to find a suitable solution and ultimately came to the
conclusion that filing for Chapter 11 was best for Macy's
future."
   Analysts say it may take two years for the retail chain to
restructure its debts and exit from bankruptcy proceedings.
Early estimates are that Macy will seek to shrink its
long-term debt to $2 billion, offering part-ownership to its
creditors in exchange for debt relief. Macy currently has
$3.4 billion of long-term debt.
   Macy's current owners might propose to invest more money
in the company in hopes of engineering a speedier exit and
gaining control, Bear, Stearns  Co. analyst Herbert Lust
said. But executives close to one large Macy shareholder,
Loews Corp., indicated that such plans aren't currently under
consideration. The Tisch family, which controls Loews, last
week proposed to inject $1 billion into Macy, but dropped its
plans when major creditors wouldn't agree to interest rate
cuts.
   Macy operates 251 stores nationwide under such names as
Bullock's, I. Magnin, and Macy's. In its bankruptcy filing,
Macy said its troubles were compounded by a bleak fall
selling season, including "the Christmas that never came."
   Internal Macy financial data indicate that the company's
cash flow -- earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation
and amortization -- plunged to less than $135 million for the
quarter ending Saturday. That amount, in what is
traditionally Macy's strongest quarter, was barely half the
total in the year-earlier period. After taking into account
Macy's interest bill, the company operated at a sizable net
loss for the quarter.
   Macy enters Chapter 11 with an estimated $275 million of
unpaid bills to trade vendors, most of which had been due to
be paid Jan. 10. Among Macy's largest trade creditors are
Sony Corp., owed $16.4 million; Liz Claiborne Inc., owed $6.7
million, and Estee Lauder, owed $3 million.
   Suppliers, however, said that it is likely Macy will begin
receiving fresh merchandise almost immediately because Macy
has negotiated $600 million in debtor-in-possession
financing.
   The funding, critical to companies entering Chapter 11
proceedings, will be provided by Bankers Trust New York Corp.
and Chemical Banking Corp. The Manufacturers Hanover unit of
Chemical, along with Bankers Trust, were Macy's two lead
bankers in its 1986 leveraged buy-out. In addition, General
Electric Co.'s GE Capital unit has agreed to provide a
charge-card facility that will let Macy consumers continue to
charge merchandise on Macy cards.
   "I would ship them $100,000 worth of goods as soon as they
have a debtor-in-possession number," said Martin Axman,
president of Item Eyes Inc., a maker of women's sportswear,
jackets and slacks. "The door is wide open. Our sales people
have already begun calling Macy and asking them in to see our
new spring line."
   Howard Bloom, president of Chetta B Inc., a maker of
expensive women's apparel, said Macy owes his company about
$50,000 for goods shipped in December. However, Mr. Bloom,
like other vendors, said he was taking the filing in stride.
"Retailers added too much debt, based on overly optimistic
sales projections," said Mr. Bloom. "The problem with the
Macy filing is that it is going to make consumers think that
the economy is worse than it is. This is another blow to
consumer confidence."
   The Macy bankruptcy case will be handled by Judge Burton
Lifland, who is generally regarded as a pro-debtor judge,
rather than a pro-creditor one. Judge Lifland previously
handled the bankruptcy filings of Eastern Airlines Inc. and
LTV Corp.
   Macy's Chapter 11 filing yesterday sent prices of its
three junk-bond issues reeling. The biggest drops were posted
by Macy's zero-coupon bonds due 2006, which plunged 16 cents
on the dollar, to about 14 cents on the dollar.
   Morgan Stanley  Co. was widely rumored on Wall Street to
own at least $100 million face value of the Macy zero-coupon
bonds. Morgan Stanley's head of junk-bond trading, Peter
Karches, said the firm does own some Macy bonds, but in far
smaller amounts than rumored.
   Emerging from Chapter 11 may prove more trying for Macy
than Federated Department Stores Inc. and Allied Stores Corp.
Those chains filed for bankruptcy protection in January 1990
and are expected to emerge as a single, publicly traded
company early next month.
   "What makes this filing different is that there are active
equity players here who will make a quick and consensual
restructuring difficult," said Rick Cieri, a partner in Jones
Day Reavis  Pogue, the law firm that provided counsel to
Federated and Allied. "People invested big money in Macy
recently and aren't going to want to walk away."
   In contrast, he says, Federated and Allied equity holders
stepped aside and let a reorganization proceed.
   In the Federated and Allied filings, most of the
negotiations involved different classes of bondholders, Mr.
Cieri added. If Macy's current owners and bondholders can't
resolve their differences, he added, competing plans of
reorganization may eventually be filed with the bankruptcy
court. That could cause Macy's reorganization to stretch out
for years.
   Operationally, many believe that Macy will benefit from
the filing. The retail chain will be able to break its leases
and close unprofitable stores without penalty. Widespread
closings aren't expected, but, Bear Stearns's Mr. Lust said,
Macy may choose to shut a few stores.
   Further, because Macy won't be paying interest on its
debt, it may have more funds with which to invest in store
renovations and newer computer systems.
   "Macy still has a strong following, and its stores are in
good locations," said George Ashur, vice president of
corporate bond research, Chase Securities, a unit of Chase
Manhattan Corp. "Macy's access to capital had been severely
restrained; now they will be able to invest in modernizing
stores and new technology. The new Macy will be sleeker, and
ultimately, stronger."
   For the fiscal year ended last Aug. 3, Macy had a loss of
$155 million on revenue of $6.76 billion.