Foreign Exchange:
   Dollar Falls Sharply As Buyers Fail
   To Bring It Beyond Resistance Levels
   ----
   By Charlene Lee
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
In early trading Thursday in Tokyo, the dollar was at
129.25 yen, off from 129.73 yen at Wednesday's Tokyo close.
The U.S. currency also was trading at 1.6468 marks, down from
1.6569 marks Wednesday.
   News of a higher-than-expected increase in U.S. January
durable goods orders also failed to spark more than a
momentary spike upward in the dollar. Many market
participants expected Tuesday's rally to take fresh momentum
from the data.
   On Tuesday, the dollar sold as low as 1.6307 marks on the
back of a bearish reading in U.S. consumer confidence in
February. But it later staged a surprising recovery of nearly
three pfennigs to close New York trading at 1.6579 marks.
   Tuesday's sharp moves "beat up a whole bunch of people, so
they're just taking it easy {yesterday}. It's a regrouping of
forces," said National Bank of Detroit foreign-exchange
manager Joe Gonzalez.
   A lack of liquidity in the currency market prevented
follow-through buying in the dollar beyond resistance at
1.6650 marks and 130.00 yen. The dollar managed to hit
intraday highs of 1.6660 marks and 130.00 yen, but that
occurred just after trading began in Asia.
   The dollar approached those highs again in the minutes
immediately following the release of the durable goods data.
Orders for big-ticket items in January climbed 1.5% compared
to a revised drop of 5.1% the previous month. The December
decline originally was pegged at 5.2%. The market was looking
for a 0.6% increase in January.
   When the U.S. currency failed to sustain the rise inspired
by the data, observers said bullish sentiment toward the
dollar turned to uncertainty and profit-taking on dollar
holdings set in. A bout of selling late in the North American
session pushed the dollar to intraday lows of 1.6452 marks
and 129.15 yen.
   "It's going to have to be a bigger number than durable
goods" to spark another run-up in the dollar, said Michael
Wissell, director of corporate foreign exchange for Toronto
Dominion Bank.
   "Generally, the market is a little exhausted being long
dollars. {Tuesday's} move was very impressive," said David
Gilmore, senior foreign-exchange analyst for MCM
Currencywatch. A "long" position in a currency involves
holding it in the expectation that it will rise.
   "German interest rates remain firm and we're far from out
of the woods in terms of the U.S. recession," Mr. Gilmore
said, adding, "there's a tentative reason at best why you
should buy dollars."
   Against the yen, the dollar encountered a solid barrier at
130.00 yen. Many traders and participants believe the Bank of
Japan has targeted that level for intervention against the
dollar. Japanese monetary officials have been jawboning the
dollar in recent days, arguing that the U.S. currency is too
strong when U.S. and Japanese economic fundamentals are
considered.
   The dollar saw heavy selling at 130.00 yen, led by
Japanese auto makers during the Asian session, traders said.
   The yen also got a little help from a senior Bank of Japan
official who said he sees no need for further cuts in Japan's
official discount rate at the present time.
   Toshihiko Fukui, executive director of the Japanese
central bank, told a parliamentary committee that the Bank of
Japan is closely watching the effects of the three
discount-rate cuts made since July 1.
   However, National Bank of Detroit's Mr. Gonzalez said most
participants expect a Japanese rate cut and have already
factored such a move into their dealings.
   In the absence of major economic and political
developments world-wide, dealers and analysts said they
expect the dollar to trade sideways for the remainder of the
week between 1.6350-1.6650 marks and 129.00-130.00 yen.