Corporate Focus:
   Arctic Alaska Fisheries Sails Into an Uncertain Future
   ---
   Federal Proposal to Reallocate
   Pacific Haul Clouds Firms's Prospects
   ----
   By Charles McCoy
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Those issues cast a shadow over a company that has tripled
annual sales and doubled annual profits since 1987 and now
dominates a lucrative industry that it helped create: mining
the rich stocks of groundfish -- mostly pollock and cod -- in
the icy North Pacific.
   The potential problems help explain why investors for
years have had a hard time figuring out what to make of
Arctic Alaska, despite its steady growth. The company went
public in the spring of 1988 at $13 a share and quickly rose
to as high as $15.25. But the stock tumbled later that year
and never regained its former levels. In late trading on the
New York Stock Exchange yesterday, Arctic Alaska was quoted
at $8.625, down $1.25.
   "Our business is strong, our company is dynamic, our
industry has developed into a profitable, American-dominated
business of which we're proud, but we have some things
hanging over our heads," says Mr. Jensen, a jovial,
plain-talking type who got started out as a fisherman in
Alaska more than 30 years ago.
   Arctic Alaska runs the nation's biggest fleet of so-called
factory trawlers, floating fish factories that not only haul
in large catches of fish but swiftly process them into
surimi, filets and other products right on board. The company
now has 12 of the giant ships in its total fleet of 35
fishing vessels. Its next-largest competitor has only four
factory trawlers, which generally cost about $50 million or
more to build.
   Indeed, Arctic Alaska's dominance of the North Pacific
pollock and cod fishery is the big reason its profit jumped
45% in 1991 to a record $16.7 million, or $1.01 a share, on
record sales of $224.4 million.
   The company thus has a lot to lose from a pending
regulatory change that would, for the first time, divvy up
the groundfish catch. The Commerce Department is mulling a
controversial recommendation that the groundfish quota, set
at about five billion pounds a year, be allocated between the
largely U.S.-owned factory trawler fleet and
Japanese-dominated onshore fish processing plants.
   The proposal, crafted by a quasi-governmental agency that
regulates North Pacific fishing, would eventually set aside
as much as 45% of the quota for onshore processors. Most of
the onshore plants, though owned by Japanese companies, are
based in Alaska. The expanding factory trawler fleet, which
has doubled to about 70 ships in the past five years, now
catches about 70% of the quota. Owners of onshore plants say
they can no longer obtain enough fish to keep operating
because of the factory ships' heavy take.
   With the groundfish haul valued at about $1 billion a
year, the dispute has kicked up a fierce political squall,
with the two sides trading accusations of Japan-bashing,
promoting protectionism and plundering the sea. The Commerce
Department, which rarely goes against the recommendations of
its fisheries regulators, is due to rule on the plan by March
5.
   That decision is the biggest issue facing Arctic Alaska
and everyone else in bigtime commercial fishing in the North
Pacific. Mr. Jensen doesn't think much of the allocation
plan. "It stinks," he grumbles. "The onshore processors want
government to protect them from the competition in the
marketplace."
   But Arctic Alaska and other U.S. factory trawlers
themselves haven't always faced the open seas of the free
market. In fact, the fleet wouldn't exist if Congress hadn't
passed laws in the 1970s to kick foreign fishing vessels out
of U.S. waters in the North Pacific. At the time, most of the
big fishing vessels in the area were Japanese, and U.S.
fishermen were complaining bitterly that foreigners were
strip-mining U.S. waters.
   Moreover, many U.S. factory trawler operators have
benefited from special government loan guarantees, without
which many vessels wouldn't have been built. Arctic Alaska,
for example, received about $100 million of government
guarantees.
   In a final irony, Arctic Alaska's biggest shareholder is
Japanese conglomerate Nippon Suisan Kaisha Ltd., which bought
about 12% of the company in 1989 for $27 million, an infusion
that bouyed Arctic Alaska's expansion plans. Nippon Suisan
also owns much of the Alaska onshore processing industry,
which means it is the target of much of the wrath pouring
forth from Mr. Jensen and other U.S. trawler operators over
the allocation plan.
   In any case, Mr. Jensen says the allocation plan could
seriously pinch the company's mainstay take of pollock, which
produced $76 million in sales last year, or about 34% of the
Arctic Alaska's total sales. Mr. Jensen estimated that the
allocation could knock about 10% off the company's overall
sales this year. The bite could be larger in the future,
since the plan allocates 35% of the groundfish quota to
onshore processors this year, 40% next year and 45% in 1994.
   Mr. Jensen says Arctic Alaska will attack the allocation
in court if it passes, but he's also already maneuvering to
offset the potential impact of the split. Indeed, the company
in recent years has steered away from its original focus on
production -- catching fish -- to manufacturing and marketing
higher-margin finished products. As part of that push, Arctic
Alaska opened a new 100,000-square-foot plant in Seattle
earlier this month that will take pollock and other fish
caught by its trawlers and frozen at sea and turn them into
fish sticks, filets and other products.
   The company is also looking for new fishing holes. Arctic
Alaska recently invested $650,000 in a joint venture to
operate a processing plant in Shanghai, China. Mr. Jensen has
also worked out an arrangement to purchase fish from Russian
fishermen. And the company is trying to develop markets for
fish that currently aren't much prized and are usually tossed
overboard when caught, such as the arrow tooth flounder and
the yellow fin sole.
   Mr. Jensen says these steps and others would enable the
company to post record results for 1992 -- if the government
doesn't restrict the factory trawlers' pollock take. "I say
all this with one caveat: I haven't talked to the fish," he
adds. "As a fisherman, I know that you're never really
certain how you'll do until you have the fish in the boat."
   The other cloud hanging over the company is the grand jury
inquiry. The U.S. Coast Guard has ruled that Arctic Alaska
failed to meet the standards of a federal safety law and thus
contributed to the sinking of its fishing vessel. The company
has disputed that conclusion, but the grand jury is looking
into whether Arctic Alaska or any of its officials bear
criminal responsibility for the disaster.
   Mr. Jensen, who joined the company after the sinking, says
he hasn't "heard anything whatsoever" from the U.S. Attorney
or any other authorities regarding the investigation, "We
don't know where it stands," he says. The U.S. Attorney's
office declined comment.
   He says the company has settled many of the numerous
lawsuits filed against it in connection with the sinking, and
has set aside reserves to cover future settlements. He says
most of the settlements have been paid by the company's
insurers, and Arctic Alaska doesn't expect any further
financial fallout from the tragedy. Nevertheless, many
industry executives believe any indictments against Arctic
Alaska could be a costly stain on the company.