These Pupils Are Learning a Lot
   From an Off-the-Shelf Education
   ----
   By Christina Duff
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Indeed, the students own the store, bringing new meaning
to the term "green grocer." They opened the market last June,
a few months after the previous grocer folded. The closing
had forced the 500 Rothsay residents to drive at least 15
miles to buy food.
   An enterprising group, called Tiger Inc. (an acronym for
Teen-age Innovative Group Entrepreneurs for Rothsay) spotted
an opportunity and restarted the business with a $15,000 loan
and financial help from local community groups. Now Tiger
Mart (named after Rothsay high school's mascot) is thriving
in its very young hands.
   Seventeen-year-old Mr. Paler, a senior, conducts its
hiring, scheduling ("a big headache because no one's ever
happy"), payroll, special sales, maintenance and inventory.
He boosted Thanksgiving business by offering deep discounts
on turkeys if shoppers bought at least $20 of groceries.
   Besides the hands-on experience, Mr. Paler and several
other employees earn credit for their high school management
class. Accounting students, meanwhile, get credit for
handling the store's bills and ledgers, while English
students can opt to handle publicity. (If you butcher the
English, there's still the meat-cutting class.)
   The idea of a student-run store isn't entirely new to
Rothsay. The town's hardware store is owned by the school
district and also run by students, who earn credit for
vocational-technical classes. (Besides the hardware and
grocery, Rothsay's retail district consists of little more
than a few gas stations, a bank and a restaurant.)
   Tiger Mart's student owners make it unique. During school
hours they earn only credits; after hours, they get the
minimum wage. And the chief executive, another student, pulls
in a meager $20 a month.
   The store is averaging sales of $300,000 on an annual
basis -- about double its predecessor's, says Tom Fosse,
Tiger Inc.'s only adult adviser. Giant supermarkets "spill
more than that in one day," he concedes. Still, the grocery
is profitable (with earnings plowed back into inventory). And
its customers are loyal. "It helps that we know everybody,"
says Mr. Paler.