Technology  Medicine:
   Trade Panel to Probe Wang's Claim
   Japanese Firms Infringed Patents
   ----
   By Eduardo Lachica
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The complaint also names Intel Corp. as one of the
respondents because Wang alleges that the U.S. chip maker
imports these devices. In a statement, however, Wang said its
action is directed mainly at "deep-pocketed Japanese
companies" that are quick to exploit U.S. technology but are
"notoriously reluctant to pay royalties for the right to do
so."
   Wang is pursuing the same legal strategy that Honeywell
Inc. used to press a similar claim on Minolta Camera Co. and
other Japanese camera makers. In 1990, Honeywell sought an
ITC investigation on Minolta's alleged piracy of Honeywell
patents. The threat of an ITC order denying entry of Minolta
cameras into the U.S. forced Minolta to cooperate with
Honeywell in a separate U.S. district court proceeding. The
ITC investigation was dropped, but the district court gave
Honeywell a $96 million award earlier this month.
   The product involved in the Wang complaint, called a
single in-line memory module, is commonly used for the
manufacture of personal computers. Wang estimates the U.S.
market for SIMM's at $1 billion annually.
   Wang already has obtained an order from a U.S. district
court in Alexandria, Va., banning two other Japanese firms,
Toshiba Corp. and NEC Corp., from importing the devices.
Those companies are appealing that decision. By securing an
ITC investigation, Wang is putting additional pressure on
other SIMM's suppliers to agree to pay royalties for the use
of its patents.
   An ITC patent investigation has become a potent weapon in
the hands of U.S. petitioners since the 1988 trade act
authorized the commission to act on their complaints in 90
days for temporary orders. The commission still takes about a
year to decide on a permanent ban.
   Wang, an innovative firm that has been weakened by the
fierce computer wars, said that the ITC proceedings are an
"important part" of its efforts to recoup its investments in
research. The firm could earn as much as $12 million annually
in royalties if it successfully enforces its two SIMM's
patents.
   Lawyers for Fujitsu and Matsushita declined to comment on
the Wang complaint, while those for the other Japanese
respondents couldn't be reached. Respondents in such
investigations aren't required to respond to the complaints
until the commission names an investigative judge and calls
for hearings.
   An Intel spokeswoman said that the firm is just a "small
player" in this action. "We import the devices but don't
build them," she said. "We'll wait to see what the ITC finds,
and then make the appropriate adjustments."
   Wang has already obtained license agreements from 20
SIMM's builders and users, including International Business
Machines Corp., Motorola Inc., Hewlett Packard Co., and
Micron Technnology Inc. Wang lawyers said that licensed U.S.
producers can quickly "ramp up" production of SIMM's to
prevent any shortages of the devices.