Economy:
   GATT Report Says Trade Liberalization
   Will Aid Global Environment Protection
   ----
   By Bob Davis
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
"To allow each (GATT) party unilaterally to impose special
duties against whatever it objects to among the domestic
policies of other parties would risk an eventual descent into
chaotic trade conditions similar to those that plagued the
1930s," the GATT environmental report said.
   Lori Wallach, a staff attorney for Public Citizen, a Ralph
Nader-affiliated consumer group that is organizing opposition
to the GATT, said the report shows "the GATT perspective on
environmental issues -- that they're an impediment to trade."
She said that "mind-set" has prompted consumer and
environmental groups to target GATT, which for years has had
little visibility and evoked little passion in the U.S.
   The GATT, based in Geneva, is currently negotiating a
broad liberalization in international trade rules. The talks,
which involve 108 nations, are stalled primarily by disputes
between the U.S. and European Community over agricultural
subsidies. But if negotiators can reach a compromise, the
GATT's powers to settle trade disputes involving
environmental issues would be greatly strengthened. Any GATT
agreement would have to be approved by Congress, which is
likely to pay close attention to environmental concerns.
   C. Fred Bergsten, director of the Institute for
International Economics in Washington, said that GATT needs
to develop an environmental code, in which a country could
try to impose its environmental standards on others. But the
country would also have to notify the GATT of its rules and
try to resolve controversies among trading countries. "That
would provide a channel for national actions intended to
foster advances in environmental norms," he said.
   The GATT report said that liberalized trade would aid the
environment largely because it would lessen subsidies and
shift agricultural production to countries such as Argentina,
Australia and Thailand. Those countries use less than
one-tenth the amount of chemical fertilizer per acre than
countries in Europe. The EC has become one of the world's
biggest agricultural exporters largely because of a huge
system of export subsidies.
   "In all likelihood, there would be a substantial increase
in global environmental quality," the report said.
   Jagdish Bhagwati, a Columbia University economist who
advises the GATT and oversaw the drafting of the
environmental report, said GATT rules don't apply to
environmental policies that are strictly domestic. For
instance, the GATT would have nothing to say about U.S.
requirements that cars driven in the U.S. must be equipped
with tailpipe devices to reduce pollution.
   But he said GATT rules don't permit one nation to impose
its environmental standards on another through the use of
trade restrictions. "If you start objecting to the way other
people do things, then they can object to what we do," Prof.
Bhagwati said. "Then it becomes almost open-ended."
   U.S. environmentalists have been incensed over a GATT
ruling that disallowed a U.S. law barring imports of tuna
that are caught in nets that can trap dolphins as well. Under
the law, the U.S. has prohibited imports of tuna from Mexico,
Venezuela and Vanuatu. Last year, Mexico objected to the
GATT; a GATT dispute-settlement panel found in Mexico's
favor, saying that the U.S. couldn't embargo a product simply
because Mexico's regulations didn't satisfy the U.S. Mexico
and the U.S. are now trying to resolve the dispute.
   The GATT environmental report backed the reasoning in the
tuna case. "In principle, it is not possible under GATT's
rules to make access to one's own market dependent on the
domestic environmental policies of the exporting country,"
the report said.
   Prof. Bhagwati said that environmentalists -- if not
governments -- would still be free to organize boycotts
against an offending country. And nations could negotiate a
multilateral treaty on environmental standards, such as the
one phasing out chemicals suspected to be thinning the
Earth's protective ozone layer, he said. If those treaties
contain trade sanctions against non-complying countries, the
agreements could be treated as waivers of general GATT rules,
which usually require two-thirds of GATT's membership to
agree.
   GATT Director-General Arthur Dunkel said the organization
"must protect against the risk of the environment being
kidnapped by trade protectionist interests." But Ms. Wallach,
the consumer activist, said the greater problem is the
"environmental crisis," which requires individual countries
to insist on tougher standards. "There's no time to wait for
global consensus," she said.