Technology  Health:
   ICL Unveils Personal Computers in Bid
   For Bigger Share of European Market
   ----
   By Laurence Hooper
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
By the mid-1990s, ICL aims to eclipse its PC competitors
in this market. In particular, it hopes to knock IBM from its
accustomed place at the top of the heap.
   Of course, such predictions are easier to make than to
accomplish, particularly from ICL's current position as a PC
laggard in most of Europe. But with a profitable operation
and the strong support of its 80% owner, Japanese behemoth
Fujitsu Ltd. -- IBM's arch-rival and the second-biggest
computer company in the world -- ICL is certainly a credible
contender.
   "You have to respect any goal they set for themselves,
because they're one of the few companies in the world that
usually do exactly what they say they will do," says Marek
Vaygelt, research director for U.K. market-research firm
Romtec.
   ICL first signaled a serious intent in PCs with the $399
million acquisition of Oy Nokia's computer division, Nokia
Data, in October. PCs now form the core of ICL's biggest
division, Personal Systems, which accounts for more than 25%
of the company's $4 billion annual revenue. (The division
also includes computer terminals, which attach to larger
systems, and some PC-related software.)
   Now, a scant five months after the Nokia Data purchase,
ICL is going public with fresh PC products and big European
ambitions -- a move timed to coincide with a new, higher
profile for the company at the huge CeBIT computer fair in
Hanover, Germany, next week.
   ICL's new machines appear workmanlike and illustrate the
company's progress from its low-powered entry into the market
only four years ago. But they aren't particularly special.
Developed in both Finland and the U.K., they include the
latest microprocessor brains and up-to-date features such as
easy upgradability and "ergonomic" design. But PCs today vary
little from one maker to the next, and differentiation
usually occurs in other areas, such as price, availablity or
service.
   While it wants to be price-competitive, ICL says it
doesn't intend to buy market share as a lowball supplier.
Instead, it intends to sell its machines as
comfortable-to-use, reliable corporate PCs that exceed
Europe's increasingly stringent safety rules.
   ICL's marketing plans include its first-ever television
advertisements in its home U.K. market and a seven-country
European tour to show the PCs to 10,000 potential customers,
mostly buyers from large corporations.
   ICL needs to make a big push because its current position
in the market for PCs used by businesses is rather lowly. In
1991, the companies that now constitute ICL's PC business,
ICL and Nokia Data, ranked a combined eighth in the European
market for IBM-compatible PCs with a scant 1.7% share, says
market-research firm Dataquest. IBM had 14% of the units sold
in Europe, while Compaq and Olivetti jostled for second place
with 5.4% and 5.2%, respectively.
   But ICL's PC shipments grew a healthy 25% in 1991, notes
David Mills, head of personal systems for ICL, while revenue
rose 11% in a year that saw overall industry revenue sag on a
slight sales increase in Europe.