What Will Become
   Of Skylines Without
   Edifice Complexes?
   ---
   Big Corporate Ego-Buildings
   Are a Casualty of the '90s;
   The New Style: No Style
   ----
   By Neil Barsky
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Look out the window of the Rainbow Room atop the RCA
building in Manhattan and there's a virtual road map of
corporate America: the Pan Am building. The W.T. Grant
building. And, of course, the spectacular ATT building.
   But W.T. Grant went out of business years ago, and the
name was stripped off the tiara-topped building. Pan Am is
gone, and the big debate now is whether to leave the big blue
PAN AM letters on the building for old time's sake. And, in
fact, the Rainbow Room isn't even on top of the RCA building
anymore; now that's called the GE building.
   The ATT building? When that opened in 1983, the
architecture world gasped. "Exhilarating," said the New York
Times architecture critic. The rosy granite skin was
impressive enough, as was the 80-foot arch in the entrance.
But what really stood out was the Chippendale top that helped
it quickly become one of the city's signature buildings. ATT
spent $200 million, far more than a plain glass and steel
tower would have cost.
   The building was planned in the 1970s, before ATT's
breakup. "We were a monopoly then," says Stephen Brazzell,
ATT's real-estate development director. "Today we're a
global competitive corporation that, rather than be defined
by granite and steel, wants to be defined by our services."
   While it's still known as the ATT building, in fact it's
the Sony building now. Last year, ATT leased the building to
Sony and said it would find cheaper space in New Jersey and
other parts of New York City. Last month, it selected a site
for its new world headquarters: a simple building in lower
Manhattan.
   A trophy, it is not.
   "It's disappointing," says John Burgee, the architect who,
with Philip Johnson, designed ATT's soaring, post-modern
tower. "They were looking for a symbol of the city which
said, `We have faith in you.' The period of making image
buildings for companies appears to be over."
   And that could have a long-term effect on the quality of
America's urban architecture. "In free-wheeling economic
societies like ours, corporations have been our Medicis or
our pope. They have created the icons we remember," says
David Childs, chairman of architect Skidmore Owings 
Merrill. "Now, we're in a very different day."
   Today, few showy headquarters buildings are in the
pipeline. Many of the biggest companies, the kind that built
the biggest buildings, are in trouble. So are banks, which
built some of the fanciest buildings in many cities. Even
companies that have money aren't likely to show off in the
sullen 1990s by strutting an edifice complex.
   "In the 1990s, corporations don't want to be opulent in
any way or frivolous with shareholders' money," says Clive
Chajet, chairman of the corporate image consulting firm
Lippincott  Marguiles. "Opulence and glitz are not the
corporate values of the 1990s."
   Compare that to the early '70s, when the Sears Tower in
Chicago served as an impossible-to-miss symbol of the retail
giant's boundless capacity for growth. The sleek CenTrust
Tower, built by Chairman David Paul as a testament to
himself, and the elegant Southeast Bank building were symbols
of Miami's ultra-chic 1980s style. LTV Corp.'s chairman once
called its 50-story Dallas headquarters "one of the most
prestigious landmarks west of the Mississippi River."
   Sears, which has been eclipsed as America's biggest
retailer by downscale Wal-Mart (whose sprawling Bentonville,
Ark., building doesn't rise above three stories) is moving to
the suburbs. CenTrust is out of business; the federal
government sold the half-empty tower for a meager $44
million. Southeast has been sold and is moving out of the
building. LTV is in bankruptcy-law protection, and the LTV
Center is now named for its developer: It's the Trammell Crow
Center.
   Mr. Burgee's firm recently completed an office tower in
Detroit whose major tenants include many local banks. "It's
plain vanilla. No fancy setbacks, just a straight, square,
stone-clad building," he says.
   There have been exceptions, of course. Within the past
three years, New York City's J.P. Morgan  Co., Cleveland's
Society Corp. and Minneapolis' Norwest Corp. all built flashy
new headquarters. NationsBank's 60-story headquarters tower
in Charlotte, N.C., has even been called the Taj McColl,
after the bank's chairman, Hugh L. McColl. NationsBank
executives hate the nickname, but love the building. "No
matter where you drive in to Charlotte, east, west north or
south, it just dominates your vision through the car
windshield," says Executive Vice President James Palermo.
"When the sun is hitting your windshield from the right
angle, it is simply beautiful."
   Other banks, such as Banc One Corp. in Columbus, Ohio,
have steadfastly shunned such offices. "It's not within our
culture to have a showy headquarters," says spokesman John
Russell. Its headquarters is in a nondescript 24-story
"tower" in downtown Columbus. Taking a veiled swipe at
competitors such as NationsBank, Mr. Russell adds: "Our
objective is to take our earnings and return them to
shareholders, not to build edifices for our president and
chairman."
   When building does pick up in the future, some architects
predict, the trend will be away from image buildings and
toward all-purpose structures that can be used by a variety
of corporations. That's what General Reinsurance of Stamford,
Conn., did recently, when it commissioned a new headquarters
complex, but left enough room to sublet space to other
companies until it needed the space. "It's a recognition that
you may have downsizing instead of growth," says Eugene Kohn
of Kohn Pederson Fox Associates, whose post-modern office
designs drew praise from architecture critics in the 1980s.
"What that means is you can't design these buildings so
specific to the culture of a single company anymore."
   Does that mean spending more on good architecture doesn't
make sense anymore? No, says Mr. Chajet, the image
consultant. "A prestigious headquarters office helps elevate
the corporation's status and gives it the appearance of
financial stability," he says. "Brick and mortar says we are
solid and we have arrived."
   For a conglomerate like ATT, Mr. Burgee says, the value
of occupying a building of distinction is obvious. "Let's say
ATT spent twice what they would have spent on their
building," he says. "When you look at the size of the
company's sales, it's a blip, it's petty cash."
   He recalls admiringly that when Philip Johnson and he
designed the trapezoidal Pennzoil Place in Houston in the
1970s, Pennzoil Chairman Hugh Liedtke wanted a special type
of wooden furniture in all of the offices. Told that such an
amenity would cost an extra $5 million, Mr. Liedtke didn't
seem a bit concerned. "Do you know how much a single offshore
oil rig costs?" he asked.