Technology  Health:
   Apple's Profit
   Increased 10%
   In Its 1st Period
   ----
   By Susan C. Faludi
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
John Sculley, chairman and chief executive officer,
credited "immediate acceptance" of Powerbooks and the
company's recently adopted cost-cutting strategy for the
improvements in the computer firm's bottom line. This view
was echoed by analysts, who said the company had, in fact,
cut costs more than they anticipated.
   Apple's healthy quarter is one of a number of recent
"signs of life in the personal computer industry," observed
Bruce M. Lupatkin, analyst with Hambrecht  Quist, pointing
to encouraging quarterly reports issued the same day from
Seagate Technology and AST Research Inc.
   Reducing expenses and costs during the quarter has
"resulted in the lowest total operating expense ratio as a
percentage of sales in over six years of Apple's history,"
Mr. Sculley said, noting that because of the company's
cost-trimming efforts, operating expense dollars fell 12.9%
from the 1991 fiscal first quarter. These savings managed to
offset what was actually a substantial decline in gross
margins in the quarter compared with a year earlier.
   Apple said the company shipped more than 100,000
Powerbooks in the first quarter. Analysts have been
predicting since last fall that demand for the new
notebook-sized computers would be strong, estimating
first-year sales of at least 300,000 units, or $700 million.
"They finally hit the sweet spot of the market," said Mr.
Lupatkin. Apple's first stab at a portable two years ago
failed when customers rejected the machines as too bulky and
costly. The new Powerbooks weigh five or six pounds and cost
from $2,299 to $4,599.
   Among the company's ongoing products, the Macintosh LC
computer remains the strongest seller, Mr. Sculley said, with
demand from the education market higher than expected.
   Apple's stock fell 75 cents to $62.75 in national
over-the-counter trading yesterday. The company reported its
earnings after the market closed.