International:
   Britain's Cadbury
   Has No Appetite
   For Fast Growth
   ----
   By E.S. Browning
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
And like Nestle, Cadbury plans to grow and acquire, too,
taking advantage of opening world markets. But Sir Graham
Day, Cadbury's nonexecutive chairman, says the company won't
be motivated by the "corporate ego" and "national pride" that
he says pushed some competitors to make acquisitions too
rapidly in risky places such as Eastern Europe.
   "We might not acquire anything in Eastern Europe and go in
instead and build our own factory," says Dominic Cadbury,
chief executive officer. "Most {existing} factories in
Eastern Europe are basket cases anyhow."
   Sir Graham says profitability matters more than size, and
adds that the pursuit of profit has generated 43% sales
growth in the past five years.
   Yesterday, Cadbury reported that 1991 pretax profit grew
13% to #316.4 million from #279.6 million a year earlier. The
growth came from controlling costs and boosting margins,
rather than by expanding sales rapidly. A weak world market
for beverages and candy held sales to #3.23 billion, up 2.7%
from #3.15 billion, which includes price increases. In volume
terms, Cadbury's beverage sales grew just 0.1%, and candy
sales grew 1.4%.
   "We see 1992 as being another damn tough year," said Mr.
Cadbury.
   Cadbury stock had been pushed up recently by good profit
expectations, and yesterday the shares eased back three pence
to 460 pence in London trading.
   Cadbury's size and steady profit growth has made it a
perennial focus of takeover rumors. Lately, analysts consider
Philip Morris Cos. of the U.S. as a potential raider,
following its 1990 purchase of Swiss chocolate maker Jacobs
Suchard AG.
   "If Philip Morris got involved with Cadbury, it would
become a carve-up situation," says analyst John Elston of
James Capel  Co. He added that the drink side of Cadbury
could fetch a good price if Philip Morris acquired it and
then sold it, keeping the candy business.
   Philip Morris won't comment, but Cadbury says it intends
to remain independent. Asked if the board might ever accept a
takeover offer, Sir Graham answered, "There is no such thing
as never. There is always a price." But he added, "We would
be extremely expensive, so any potential acquisitor is going
to have to have deep pockets."