Technology  Health:
   Filtered Coffee
   Raises Cholesterol,
   New Study Shows
   ----
   By Jerry E. Bishop
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The new experiment was carried out at the University of
California, San Francisco, with funds from the National
Coffee Association of the USA Inc., and a National Institutes
of Health grant.
   The experiment was designed to resolve a question raised
by a 1989 report from Dutch scientists that drinking four to
six cups of boiled coffee a day raised cholesterol levels 10%
but that no such effect on cholesterol was detected in those
who drank filtered coffee. The experiment implied that the
paper filter removed some mysterious cholesterol-raising
substance from coffee.
   In the new experiment, 25 volunteer coffee drinkers for
eight weeks limited themselves to drinking 720 milliliters,
or about 24 ounces, daily of coffee brewed in an automatic
drip coffee maker that uses a paper filter. Their mean level
of blood cholesterol rose by slightly more than nine
milligrams per deciliter of blood from about 200 milligrams.
   The increase in total cholesterol included a 4.7% net
increase in the level of so-called LDL cholesterol, the "bad"
type of cholesterol. This would ordinarily indicate an
increased risk of heart disease but the coffee drinkers also
had a net increase in their levels of HDL cholesterol, the
"good" kind, that was enough to offset the risk posed by the
"bad" cholesterol.
   No significant changes in cholesterol levels were seen in
other volunteers who drank no coffee, who drank decaffeinated
coffee or who drank half as much caffeinated coffee daily.
   The researchers' report cited 35 other studies, most of
which tend to show that coffee does raise cholesterol levels,
but how it does so remains unknown, they said.
   ---
   Corrections  Amplifications
                                                                                                       

   AN EXPERIMENT showing that filtered coffee can raise
cholesterol levels was carried out at Johns Hopkins Medical
Institutions in Baltimore. Yesterday's edition misstated
where the experiment took place.
   (WSJ Feb. 13, 1992)