New York State
   Debt Rating
   Cut by Moody's
   ---
   Move Affects $14.2 Billion
   Of Issues; Agency Cites
   Concern Over Deficits
   ----
   By James C. Hyatt and Kevin Pritchett
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
Moody's said it also put the state's general obligation
debt, rated single-A, under review for possible downgrade in
the coming months. Moody's previously downgraded the states
general obligation bonds in 1990.
   About two-thirds of the state's tax-supported debt is
affected by the action. Moody's called appropriations-backed
debt the fastest growing component of state debt in recent
years, totaling $14.2 billion at present, not including $2.4
billion in Local Government Assistance Corporation debt.
   The rating agency's move illustrates the growing pressures
on New York State politicians to resolve the increasingly
severe budget stalemate. With the current fiscal year ending
March 31, "budget balancing options are extremely limited,
and for the fourth consecutive year a sizable carry-over
deficit funding will be necessary," Moody's said.
   The current fiscal year's deficit is at least $875 million
and could increase, while the deficit for the next fiscal
year is an expected $3.5 billion.
   Gov. Mario Cuomo and the Republican-controlled state
Senate have been in acrimonious negotiations for months, but
Moody's said the delays have foreclosed most options for
significant current savings "and references to a
fifteen-month plan are no longer realistic. At best, policies
agreed to now for recurring savings could begin yielding
significant results only in fiscal 1993."
   The ratings announcement, which could increase the cost of
borrowing for state agency debt, prompted predictable
finger-pointing among state budgetary players. Gov. Cuomo
blamed the Senate for failing to agree with him on a
current-year deficit reduction plan, and declared, "We cannot
afford to ignore today's admonitions and actions by Moody's.
We have run out of time. We most close the current year
deficit now, even though the savings we can realistically
achieve are not as great as we had hoped."
   Senate majority leader Ralph J. Marino, on the other hand,
noted the Senate had passed its version of a budget plan, but
it hasn't been considered in the Democrat-controlled State
Assembly. A major sticking point is the size of cuts in
Medicaid and state school aid.
   Gov. Cuomo recently blamed the budget impasse for his
decision not to seek the Democratic presidential nomination
this year.
   Moody's said it had consistently placed an A rating on
appropriations-backed bonds at least since 1972. A spokesman
for Standard & Poor's Corp. said its rating on the
appropriations-backed bonds is singleA with a negative
outlook. "We are increasingly concerned about the budget
stalemate," he said.
   Moody's said the bond ratings of local governments in New
York State are not directly affected by the rating action,
but the impact of the state's fiscal condition on local
government bond ratings will be assessed on a case-by-case
basis.
   It added that further rating actions will depend on the
timeliness of the ultimate budget compromise as well as "the
degree to which it provides for structural budget balance
without relying on non-recurring actions."