British Gas to Sell
   15.2% of Canadian
   Utility to Public
   ----
   By Suzanne McGee
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Analysts said the issue appears to be attractively priced,
and that the installment payment plan will give
income-oriented investors an added inducement. While paying
only slightly more than half the purchase price, investors
will be entitled to the full dividend for 1992 under the
plan, producing a yield of close to 10%.
   The issue will complete, six months ahead of schedule,
British Gas's promise to the Ontario government to sell back
to the public at least 15% of the utility. The British
concern's C$34-a-share bid won the approval of the provincial
government only after it promised to issue at least 15% of
the shares to the public by September 1992.
   The transaction drew criticism from Canadian nationalists
opposing foreign purchases of major Canadian assets,
especially natural resource concerns. British Gas launched
its bid for Consumers Gas Co. in March 1990. GW Utilities
Ltd., a holding company controlled by Toronto's Reichmann
family, agreed to tender its 82% stake to British Gas. The
purchase was eventually completed in February 1991.
   Before completing the issue, Consumers Gas said it plans
to transfer all its non-utility assets to British Gas in
exchange for a cash infusion of about C$200 million, their
approximate book value. The assets include Telesis Oil  Gas,
an oil and gas production concern and a small energy
consulting group, Rose Technology Group Ltd. Also included in
the reorganization is Gazifiere Inc., a Quebec-based gas
utility that is regulated by a different body than Consumers.
   The Ontario Energy Board had previously proposed that the
utility and nonutility components of Consumers business be
separated. The split also makes the offering more attractive
as a high-yielding, pure utility play.
   Consumers Gas is based in Toronto. At last report, the
company had 66.1 million shares outstanding, following a
2-for-1 stock split at the beginning of the month.
   All of the shares currently are owned by British Gas.