Parade of Nations
   In the Winter Games
   Reflects New World
   ---
   But `Order' Isn't the Word
   For What Is Happening
   As Albertville Gets Ready
   ----
   By Roger Thurow and Craig Forman
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
Soviet hockey players got a new team name and flag midway
through a tournament in Germany. As the U.S.S.R. team, they
had won four games in a row. As the C.I.S. team, they
promptly lost to Czechoslovakia, 5-2.
   East German luge coaches, without a country or jobs,
searched for a place to hang their sleds. One signed with
Italy, one with Austria, one with the Virgin Islands.
   As a result, Olympics organizers are scrambling more to
deal with an avalanche of new nations than any avalanche of
snow.
   "Suppose Latvia or Estonia wins a medal. What do we do
then? What song do we play? What flag do we use?" asks Remy
Charmetant, who, as director of sports for the Albertville
Games, is in charge of making sure things go smoothly. Under
the circumstances, he has a flagmaker in Brittany on call,
with an airplane standing by, in case any of the new Baltic
or Balkan nations seems to be about to win a medal, which is
always possible. But the potential for a protocol snafu, such
as playing the Yugoslavian anthem for a Slovenian medalist,
preoccupies him.
   "With the world changing so fast," he huffs, "how are we
supposed to cope?"
   Jean-Claude Killy, France's skiing legend and co-organizer
of the Games, reassures his friend Mr. Charmetant over
dinner. "The world may be changing," he says, "but one way or
another, we will be ready."
   Ready or not, the winter athletes of the world will march
into Albertville's Olympic stadium a week from now in a
splendid parade of the new, chaotic world order. More than
any meeting of the United Nations, this Olympics will be a
showcase for new countries. The last time Mr. Charmetant
dared look, six new flags were flying over the Olympic
village. Meanwhile, two very familiar ones -- the Soviet
Union's and East Germany's -- had disappeared, and one old
one -- South Africa's -- was ready to be hoisted with a new
design.
   In years past, the Olympic Games, winter and summer, have
done their share to incite nationalistic passions, with
medals won counted as closely as nuclear warheads deployed.
This year, though, the Olympics ride a wave of emotion
because they are a global acknowledgement of a changed
political landscape.
   Athletes who once were proxy soldiers in the Cold War will
now be competing as representatives of peoples and cultures
making their debuts on the international stage. "I want to do
the best I can, to win a medal, to show the world that
Slovenia really exists," says 20-year-old Franci Petek, who
won the ski jumping world championship last year as a
Yugoslav and is going for the gold as a Slovene. "People know
Slovenia only from the fighting last summer. But that's not
us. We're a peaceful nation. The Olympics are a great place
for the world to get to know the real Slovenia."
   And, perhaps, to distinguish it from all the other new
countries with names ending in ia, like Estonia. "These
Olympics will be the first time we will be seen so
conspicuously all over the world," says Eerik Kross, an
Estonian diplomat in London, his voice a mixture of
anticipation and stage fright.
   Mr. Kross thinks back to 1980, during the Summer Olympics
in the Soviet Union, when an athlete from Finland won a
sailing medal in a race off the Estonian coast. Estonians
mouthed the words to their prohibited national anthem when
the Finnish national song -- which has a similar melody --
was played.
   "This time, if an Estonian athlete wins," Mr. Kross
announces with great satisfaction, "we will be able to sing
our own anthem." That is, if the band has located the sheet
music by then.
   The cool marble and glass headquarters of the
International Olympic Committee on the shores of serene Lake
Geneva in Lausanne, Switzerland, hardly suggests the scramble
within the Olympic movement to keep up with change.
   For instance, the IOC invited the former Yugoslav
republics of Croatia and Slovenia to compete at Albertville
just three weeks before the Games were to begin; it didn't
want to move until the European Community had granted
political recognition to the two republics, which it did on
Jan. 15. Still, the IOC invitations go against the will of
the U.S. and the U.N., which so far refuse to recognize
Croatia and Slovenia and warn that doing so may only fuel the
war in Yugoslavia.
   From that frying pan, IOC officials jumped into the fire,
heading to Moscow to try to figure out how the former Soviet
Union would be represented in Albertville and at the Summer
Games in Barcelona. The Commonwealth of Independent States
agreed to send a delegation called United Team to compete
under the Olympic flag and to receive medals to strains of
Beethoven's "Ode to Joy." That same day, though, there was
neither unity nor joy in the C.I.S. Squabbling between Russia
and Ukraine over the status of the Black Sea naval fleet
threatened yet another Olympic team name change.
   "The Olympics combine so many things. The Games are
sports, diplomacy, politics, business and economics rolled
together," says Michele Verdier, the IOC's director of
information. "Especially this year, this atmosphere creates
great challenges."
   While any highlight film will first begin rolling when the
Olympic flame is lighted a week from Saturday, many of the
defining moments of the Games were captured in the newsreels
of 1991: The collapse of the Soviet empire and the Soviet
sports machine along with it. The breakup of the Yugoslav
federation, from which emerged the new Alpine nation,
Slovenia, and basketball-mad, sports-crazy Croatia. When the
three Baltic countries stepped out of the Soviet shadow,
skiers, bobsledders and lugers were liberated as well. Nelson
Mandela and F.W. de Klerk's handshakes in South Africa
promised to bring a nation's athletes to the world's view.
   Like politics, like sports.
   "Tell me what you have heard," begs Yuri Khartchenko,
collaring a journalist at the finish line of an Austrian luge
run in Innsbruck. "I hear our sports organization is out of
business. I hear it on radio. Is it true?" Mr. Khartchenko is
from St. Petersburg in Russia. He was one of the Soviets' top
lugers, winning a bronze medal at Calgary four years ago.
Now, like his old country, he has the look of a has-been.
   He and his fellow lugers -- as well as many other Soviet
athletes -- were out on the World Cup circuit when,
unbeknownst to them, Gossport, the old Soviet sports bureau,
was shut down. The athletes' accustomed pride and confidence
gave way to feelings of betrayal and doubt. Will they be
stranded far from home? Is there still money to go to
Albertville? Can they remain competitive?
   Mr. Khartchenko worries particularly about the latter. The
Siberian company that once made equipment for the Soviet
lugers has closed, he says, leaving him to scrounge around
Europe for new steel runners for his sled. He has been
distracted in his training, he says, by the turmoil back
home. Maybe, he suggests, he won't even bother competing at
Albertville.
   "I won't finish in the top 10 -- and that isn't my style,"
he says. "Maybe better to watch it on TV."
   Identities are also blurred for those athletes still
scheduled to compete for Yugoslavia, which doesn't really
exist anymore. "I'm competing for myself," declares Ismar
Biogradic, a luger from the republic of Bosnia-Hercegovina.
"I'm not for Slovenia, or Croatia, or Serbia, or Yugoslavia."
   But for all the athletes pining for the old security,
there are others who are energized by change.
   "Our whole team has great motivation to compete for our
new country," says Uros Velepec, a Slovene biathlete. "It has
been a difficult year. We had to leave home to train. In
Slovenia, it was not good to shoot."
   During one target practice in July, hours after a
cease-fire was signed on an island off the Yugoslav coast,
Slovene police rushed to tell the news to the team, saying
they were in violation of a moratorium on shooting and that
the army might mistake the practice for hostile action. The
biathletes packed up their skis and rifles and headed for the
safe havens of Germany and Austria.
   The way the Slovenes figure it, once they have won an
Olympic medal, how can they be denied a seat at the U.N.?
"Winter sports is one of the main points of our state," says
Tomaz Kunstelj, an adviser to the Slovene prime minister.
"Our athletes are very important because they can make
friends all over the world. And that is the philosophy of our
state: to be friends to everyone."
   Ski jumper Franci Petek is so friendly he does Slovenia
proud. When the war broke out, he fought with himself: Could
he take a stand that he would never again jump for
Yugoslavia, even if it meant forfeiting a chance to defend
his world championship? "Finally, I decided for all of
Slovenia," he says.
   Now, all of Slovenia expects him to bring home a gold
medal. "The expectations are all out of proportion. In ski
jumping, you need a lot of luck to win," he cautions. "It
doesn't matter who of us gets a medal," he says, smiling
broadly. "We will all be heroes."
   The official Olympic program, already on sale, is full of
heroes, past and present. There's Jean-Claude Killy on
skiing, Katarina Witt on skating, Vaclav Havel on miracles.
   "Reality, better than fiction," declares the headline over
Mr. Havel's essay, which sums up Europe's recent stupefying
changes. Mr. Havel marvels at how he went from being an
imprisoned writer chafing under Communism one day to being
the president of Czechoslovakia the next. He concludes, with
astonishment: "How very strange."
   That's a perfect theme for these Olympics.