Bad Trip:
   After Much Ballyhoo,
   Bush's Visit to Asia
   Appears to Fall Short
   ---
   It Won't Ease the Recession
   And It Isn't a PR Coup,
   As the President Wanted
   ---
   Awkward Moment in Japan
   ----
   By Alan Murray and Michel McQueen
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
The worst moment symbolically came Wednesday evening
(Tokyo time), when the president slumped over in his chair at
a state dinner and vomited on Prime Minister Kiichi
Miyazawa's pant leg. White House spokesman Marlin Fitzwater
later dismissed the incident as the result of a bout with the
flu.
   But the embarrassing moment, while understandable given
the president's rigorous schedule, simply added to the trip's
awkwardness. Most notably, Mr. Bush has been lampooned in
both the U.S. and Japan for seemingly being reduced to
hawking cars that the Big Three auto makers can't sell
themselves.
   "This trip was a loser," says William Niskanen, a former
chief economist for Ford Motor Co. and Reagan economic
adviser who is now chairman of the libertarian Cato
Institute. "I think it demeans the presidency for him to act
like a car salesman."
   More important, economists and trade experts say the trip
can't possibly do much to help end the U.S. recession.
Measures to open up the Japanese market to U.S. automobiles
certainly won't help much until Detroit makes cars that meet
Japanese needs, with features like right-hand steering
wheels. (As in Britain, people in Japan drive on the
left-hand side of the road.) Ford says it plans to do so, but
will need 20 months. Moreover, plans by Japanese auto makers
to buy more U.S. auto parts won't fully take effect until
1995, offering little help in the near term.
   "There is no way it's going to do anything about the
recession, no way it is going to do anything about the
overall U.S. jobs picture," says Paul Krugman, an economist
at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. "Even if we got
everything we ever wanted from the Japanese, it wouldn't
happen fast enough to be at all relevant to our recession."
   U.S. and Japanese negotiators agreed early Thursday on
measures to be included in the action plan. Full details were
set for release later in the day. Throughout the
negotiations, automobiles were the focus of attention, with
Japanese companies promising both to help sell U.S. cars in
Japan and to increase sharply their purchases of U.S.-made
parts.
   As part of the action plan, Japan's Big Five auto makers
are setting procurement goals for the year ending in March
1995 of about $20 billion in foreign parts, up from the
current level of about $8 billion. Over time, those increased
purchases could provide significant new business to U.S.
auto-parts makers.
   Republicans tried to play down the significance of Mr.
Bush's sick spell and play up the Asian trip's successes. But
they concede the administration's public buildup of the trip
may have been too great. Not surprisingly, Democrats were
quick to take swipes at the trip's shortcomings. Michael
McCurry, an aide to presidential candidate Bob Kerrey, went
so far as to call Mr. Bush's indisposition "a metaphor for
the entire trip: The United States stumbling, staggering, on
its knees, looking for something to cure its ills."
   Mr. Bush's illness is also, inevitably, focusing renewed
public attention on Vice President Dan Quayle's fitness for
the top office. Despite efforts to polish his image, Mr.
Quayle is still viewed negatively by 38% of voters in the
most recent Wall Street Journal/NBC News poll, and positively
by only 32%.
   To judge how the president's trip is playing with the
public, The Wall Street Journal talked to a handful of people
in auto-sensitive Kalamazoo, Mich. A number of these voters,
members of a Journal-sponsored group that meets periodically
to discuss political issues, were strongly critical of the
president's trip, and especially of his bringing with him 21
chief executives.
   "It's hard for me to sympathize with a {corporate
executive} making $2 million a year telling the Japanese how
tough times are here at home," said Rob Britigan, a property
management executive and a big Bush booster. Don Warren, a
telephone technician and a disillusioned Bush Democrat, said
the trip "won't produce any jobs here at home."
   The Kalamazoo voters were less concerned about the
president's health. "It's embarrassing, but it could happen
to any of us," said Edith Pontius, a conservative political
independent.
   If the trip is playing poorly in the U.S., it's doing even
worse in Japan. The Japanese press has kidded Mr. Bush
mercilessly, focusing both on his "rudeness" in demanding
gifts -- trade concessions -- and on his role as
super-salesman. The Asahi Evening News, an English-language
version of one of Japan's most prestigious dailies, carried
an opinion-page column headlined "The Ill-Mannered Visitor."
In another paper, Mr. Bush was portrayed as a street vendor
with a table full of tiny cars.
   But Japanese government officials, eager to see Mr. Bush
re-elected, sought to put the best face on events, including
his sick spell. Foreign Minister Michio Watanabe said the
president was just "tired." Interviewed on Japanese
television, former top trade negotiator Naohiro Amaya said
the president's illness "is a symbolic event. America is
tired -- but not critically ill." Japanese officials have
been justifying the new trade concessions to the Japanese
public as repayment for U.S. largess to Japan after World War
II, and despite the lampooning in the press many Japanese
seem receptive to this theme.
   Mr. Bush's trip has been punctuated throughout with gaffes
that seem to symbolize his discomfort with his role. In
Australia, he innocently held up two fingers at protesters in
what he thought was a peace sign, only to find it is
considered an obscene gesture there. At the Shishinden Palace
in Kyoto, Mr. Bush was invited to watch a demonstration of an
eighth-century court game called Kemari that involves
intricate kicking around of a horsehair football. Uninvited,
the president joined in the fun, even bouncing the ball off
his head -- a move not allowed under the game's rules.
   Through it all, the 67-year-old president has kept up an
exhausting pace. He shook hands on street corners, took tea
with locals, lunched with foreign business executives and
even cut the ribbon on a new toy store. In between scheduled
events, he jogged and used exercise equipment in Australia
and in Singapore. In Tokyo, he even played tennis with the
emperor and the crown prince. He lost.
   In his public events, Mr. Bush has continually returned to
the theme of trade and jobs, in comments that seem scripted
to convince the American public that his skills in overseas
affairs could have an economic payoff at home.
   And indeed, some trade experts welcome Mr. Bush's new
concern about economic matters. "I think he's doing the right
thing, although for the wrong reasons and in the wrong way,"
says Clyde Prestowitz, a former Commerce Department official
who heads the Economic Strategy Institute, a Washington think
tank. "For whatever reason, he is addressing in a
high-priority way the central issues that exist between us
and the Asians, and those are trade and economic questions."
Mr. Prestowitz's chief concern is that, since he believes the
president has adopted this strategy solely for political
reasons, Mr. Bush may abandon it once his political problems
ease.
   Some analysts see nothing wrong with the president's
decision to take along U.S. corporate chieftains. "I don't
mind Bush taking these CEOs on the road," says Michael Aho,
director of economic studies at the Council on Foreign
Relations. "This is what other heads of state do all the
time."
   But even some of the president's defenders, such as former
U.S. trade representative William Brock, argue it was a
mistake to allow the trip to focus on automobiles. "I think
it has distracted both sides from some areas where the
economic opportunity is greater," he says.
   Mr. Niskanen of the Cato Institute adds that, by
highlighting the auto issue, Mr. Bush may inadvertently give
a push to Democratic-sponsored trade legislation that he
strongly opposes, but which is implicitly backed by U.S.
auto-industry leaders. That legislation would require the
Japanese to eliminate the trade imbalance with the U.S. over
the next five years, and would likely force the Japanese to
sharply restrict their auto exports to the U.S.
   It isn't just President Bush who's had problems on the
trip. The U.S. auto makers have also suffered from a rash of
bad public relations, both in the U.S. and Japan. And they
have been something of an embarrassment both to the president
and to other business executives on the trip by publicly
pushing for measures to eliminate Japan's trade surplus with
the U.S. over five years.
   Most of the executives on the trip "do have a different
agenda" than the auto makers, says a U.S. official in Japan.
Heinz Prechter, chairman and chief executive of ASC Inc., an
auto-parts maker, says that, while he sympathizes with the
auto makers, "there's no doubt that a lot of the problem is
the domestic industry." Administration officials explain they
had no choice but to invite the car-company chiefs because
autos account for such a large portion of U.S. imports from
Japan.
   In the end, however, Mr. Bush's widely televised sick
spell may remain the most poignant memory from this trip.
"That may have been the high point," says Bill Cunningham, a
trade lobbyist with the AFL-CIO in Washington. "He's not
going to get any significant trade concessions. At least he
gets sympathy for working while he's sick."
   ---
   Staff reporters James M. Perry in Washington and Urban C.
Lehner in Tokyo contributed to this article.