Commodities:
   Grain Futures Rally Late as Yeltsin Rumors
   Prove Unfounded, but Prices Still End Lower
   ----
   By Jeffrey Taylor
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Several news services reported early yesterday that Mr.
Yeltsin, who is now visiting Great Britain, was on the verge
of being unseated by an attempted coup in Russia, but those
rumors proved unfounded. Other fundamentals in the market
yesterday also served to pull prices down.
   Wheat traders seem to think it's likely that some wheat
will be dumped on the market because the federal government
stopped making payments on the farmer-owned reserve of wheat,
said Richard Loewy, president of AgResource Co., Chicago.
This exerted more downward pressure on near contract months
such as March and May than distant months like July, because
the effect isn't expected to last long.
   The stalwart contract yesterday was corn. The price of the
March contract settled slightly higher, up 0.25 cent to
$2.635 a bushel. This was mainly because a drought is
continuing in South Africa, threatening the country's corn
crop. Current estimates call for South African yields of 4
million to 4.5 million metric tons, the lowest since the
early 1980s. A metric ton is equal to about 2,204.62 pounds.
   South Africa is usually a net exporter of corn, but the
drought is likely to turn the country into a net buyer,
enhancing foreign demand for U.S. and Argentinian corn. And
U.S. corn stocks are low at the moment.
   In addition, the corn market got support from expectations
that the Bush administration will soon approve a request from
Russia and other former Soviet republics to use their
February, March and April allotments of export credits all in
February. If the C.I.S. makes its February payment on
previous grain shipments -- and analysts expect that it will
-- the administration likely will approve the request. A
decision could be announced as soon as this weekend, when Mr.
Yeltsin is expected to visit Washington.
   In other commodity markets yesterday:
                                                                                                       

   ENERGY: Crude-oil futures finished five cents a barrel
higher on the New York Mercantile Exchange, rallying late in
the day on strength in gasoline. Crude oil for March delivery
settled at $18.94 a barrel. Heating-oil futures prices,
depressed by a Department of Energy report, fell 1.85 cents a
gallon to 52.14 cents for February and had pulled crude lower
early in yesterday's trading. But traders anticipating
refinery maintenance shutdowns pushed February gasoline
futures 0.90 cents a gallon higher to 55.51 cents, and crude
rose, too. Generally, traders said the market has developed a
wait-and-see attitude because of next week's Iraq-United
Nations meeting and the Feb. 12 meeting of the Organization
of Petroleum Exporting Countries.
                                                                                                       

   PRECIOUS METALS: Futures prices fell. Silver for March
delivery ended 10.3 cents an ounce lower at $4.145. February
gold lost $2.70 an ounce to finish at $353.40. Fred Demler,
metals economist at PaineWebber, said silver's inability to
extend its strength on Wednesday into yesterday prompted some
disappointed investors to sell. Also contributing to the
decline was negative sentiment caused by indications from
Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan Wednesday that the
Fed won't lower interest rates further, as well as by
yesterday's report on disappointing durable goods orders in
December, Mr. Demler said. Silver's fundamentals are also
discouraging, he said, with supply from mines rising and
fabrication demand softening. Although there have been some
cutbacks among primary producers, silver produced as a
byproduct of base metal mining continues to rise, he said.
                                                                                                       

   ORANGE JUICE: Futures prices fell sharply. Orange juice
for March delivery ended at $1.4325 a pound, down 1.45 cents.
Stephen Platt, vice president of Dean Witter in Chicago,
blamed the decline on fears of larger-than-expected crops in
Brazil and Florida. According to market talk, there are
indications that the 1992-93 Brazilian crop, which begins
harvest in July, could be as much as 20 million boxes larger
than the U.S. government and industry estimates of 240
million, Mr. Platt said. And the current Florida harvest of
1991-92 early and mid-season oranges might be five million
boxes above the most recent government estimate of 80 million
boxes, he said. There are also concerns that demand will
decline because of last fall's price run-up, Mr. Platt said.
Movement of juice from processors to retailers has held up
surprisingly well, he said. But he noted that movement fell
10% in the week ended Jan. 25 from a week earlier, according
to an industry report released yesterday.