Canada Will Loosen Restrictions on Beer
   From U.S. Brewers Sold in the Provinces
   ----
   By Rose Tamburri
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Currently, U.S. brewers are able to ship only a modest
amount of beer to Canada because of restrictive pricing and
distribution practices in most of the country's 10 provinces.
But under pressure from Washington, Canada has agreed to
scrap the restrictions.
   In anticipation of the changes, Heileman has begun talks
with provincial authorities to set up its own distribution
system in Canada. Now, in most provinces, government agencies
handle the marketing of imported beer through provincial
liquor stores. Heileman also is considering broadening its
range of brands in Canada, where it presently sells mainly
Lone Star and Rainier.
   Canadian brewers fear such moves could further cut into
their market, which already has been eroded by declining
consumption. They are urging the Canadian government to phase
in the changes over the next several years.
   But U.S. brewers are demanding quick action. The U.S.
government has threatened to impose retaliatory duties on
Canadian beer sales in the U.S., beginning April 10, unless
Canada lifts the restrictions.
   Government officials and the Canadian beer industry are
trying to work out a plan that will be acceptable to the U.S.
Such a plan must be submitted by next month to a panel of the
General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, which ruled recently
that some Canadian trade practices discriminate against U.S.
beer imports.
   U.S. beer producers currently supply about 3% of the
Canadian market. Canadian beer exports account for 1% of the
U.S. market and total about $160.9 million -- more than six
times the value of U.S. exports to Canada.
   The three largest U.S. brewers, Anheuser-Busch Cos., Coors
Brewing Co. and the Miller Brewing Co. unit of Philip Morris
Cos., have longstanding licensing arrangements with Canadian
brewers under which their major U.S. brands are produced in
Canada.
   But imported brands, such as Lone Star, face numerous
hurdles. In Quebec, for example, imported brands are sold in
about only 300 provincial government-owned stores, while
Canadian-brewed beer is available in more than 11,000 grocery
stores. In Ontario, imports can be sold only in packs of six
and are subject to bigger markups than domestic brands.
   "To a great degree, we face barriers every time we turn
around," said Randy Smith, Heileman's lawyer.
   A pack of six cans of imported beer, which costs about
1.18 Canadian dollars (US99 cents) before import duties and
other levies are added, retails for C$5.70 in Ontario. By
comparison, Canadian beer costs C$3.48 before taxes and sells
for C$7.05 including a 60-cent (Canadian) refundable deposit
on the cans.
   Canadian beer is more expensive partly because of the
higher cost of doing business in Canada, said Sandy Morrison,
president of the Brewers Association of Canada, an industry
group. Provincial trade regulations, which force Canadian
brewers to maintain plants in most provinces, add to the
costs, he said.
   Also, Canadian brewers don't enjoy the "tremendous
economies of scale" their U.S. counterparts do, Mr. Morrison
said. Coors Brewing, a unit of Adolph Coors Co., produces
almost twice as much beer as Molson Breweries of Canada Ltd.
and could supply the entire Canadian market, he said. Molson,
Canada's leading brewer, is jointly owned by Molson Cos. of
Toronto, and Fosters Brewing Group of Australia.
   Molson, however, makes about four times more operating
profit per barrel than Coors, said Jacques Kavafian, an
analyst with Levesque Beaubien Geoffrion Inc., a Montreal
securities firm. Stiffer competition and unregulated pricing
have kept beer prices and brewers' profits lower in the U.S.,
he said.