LEISURE  ARTS -- Bookshelf:
   More Work, Less Play Is Rule of the Day
   ----
   By John Coston
As Ms. Schor reads the data, in each of the past 20 years
the average American has added approximately nine hours to
the time he spends on the job. Such a tag-on may well be
imperceptible over the course of a year, but compounded over
two decades it amounts to a full extra month of work each
year. If we keep up the pace, Ms. Schor estimates, by the end
of the century Americans will be spending as much time at
their jobs as their great-grandfathers did in the 1920s.
   An explanation for this trend may be found in what labor
economists like to call asymmetry. In particular, Ms. Schor
points to the country's current and chronic job shortages,
which make it harder and harder for workers to stand up to
the demands of their employers. Ms. Schor dwells on another,
equally profound imbalance: employer demands for longer
hours. This unavoidably steals leisure opportunities away
from already overworked Americans. How can the worker win in
this kind of situation?
   If the trend continues, by the year 2010 Americans will
have worked themselves back into a Dickensian rate of toil.
By then, the average person would be on the job 60 hours a
week, 50 weeks a year, for an annual total of 3,000 hours.
What further damage will this scenario cause the already
sapped and battered nuclear family? How much less time will
parents spend with children and each other? What kinds of
health problems will accompany the stress from overwork?
   In New York in the first half of the 19th century,
employers joined forces against workers demanding a 10-hour
workday. Their bosses argued that foreign competition would
simply outsell them if they gave in to such a demand. The
workers blasted back: "Are we to slave thirteen or fourteen
hours a day, because the Manchester spinner or the Birmingham
blacksmith, so slaves?"
   U.S. workers are still losing the battle for shorter
hours, Ms. Schor illustrates. Though the Japanese are on a
six-day schedule and the Koreans spend three of four Sundays
in the factory, Americans spend on average eight more weeks a
year in the factory than do Germans, and 11 weeks more than
Swedes. And Ms. Schor's typical U.S. CEO wants to grind even
more out of his minions: "I cannot imagine a shorter
workweek. I can imagine a longer one both in school and at
work if America is to be competitive in the first half of the
next century."
   Ms. Schor also offers a set of similarly dispiriting
factoids:
   -- For women, gaining a husband adds about five hours of
domestic work a week.
   -- The 5 o'clock Dad of the 1950s and '60s has been
replaced by an 8 or 9 o'clock Dad, who very likely also
attends to his job on Saturday or Sunday, if he's not holding
down an altogether different weekend job.
   -- For employed mothers, the workweek now averages about
65 hours, and many mothers do far more than the average if
they have young children, are in professional jobs or hold
down a low-paying job (or two) just to scrape by.
   -- A letter to 300 business leaders advocating a shorter
workweek failed to yield a single favorable response.
   Ms. Schor hopes to ignite discussion about ways Americans
can mobilize to fight these trends and gain more leisure.
Corporate America, she points out, won't freely offer it.
Technology, she knows, doesn't always deliver on its
labor-saving promise, and sometimes actually makes matters
worse. "There will be more leisure time only when people
become convinced that they must have it," she observes.
   Some U.S. workers do seem to have understood the problem
and begun fighting it. Citing recent evidence of so-called
"downshifting," a trend toward reduced workloads in favor of
more time to gain control over one's life, Ms. Schor is
encouraged that maybe Americans are beginning to rebel. "Have
we entered a new era?" she asks.
   While her conclusions may seem obvious, the value of this
book lies within its rich vein of research, which appears to
have been untapped until now. Indeed, every overworked
American should be grateful that Ms. Schor gave up her own
spare time to give us this book.
   ---
   Mr. Coston is a Journal news editor in New York.