What's News --
   World-Wide
By a 215-201 vote, lawmakers approved a $1.5 trillion
resolution for the entire federal budget in the fiscal year
that begins on Oct. 1.
   ---
   The Bush administration plans a series of initiatives
crucial to businesses in states that hold primary elections
over the next two weeks. With the Michigan primary set for
March 17, for instance, the EPA intends to drop a
pollution-control proposal opposed by auto makers.
   ---
   The House Ethics Committee proposed publicly disclosing
the names of 24 lawmakers who repeatedly wrote bad checks on
their House bank accounts. The committee, which didn't
release any names, will ask the full House to approve the
proposal.
   ---
   United Way moved to repair its image, naming Kenneth W.
Dam, vice president at IBM, as interim president and chief
executive. Meanwhile, other charitable groups are calling
attention to what they consider to be United Way's
monopolistic fund-raising methods.
   ---
   The Irish Supreme Court said abortion should be allowed in
limited circumstances. Four of the five judges said they
thought abortion was permissible if there was a risk to the
mother's life. The chief justice said a 14-year-old girl was
allowed last week to leave Ireland for an abortion because
judges feared she would kill herself.
   ---
   U.S. officials criticized Palestinian negotiators, saying
they were more interested in "posturing" for the media than
in conducting real discussions. Israeli and Arab delegations
headed home from Washington after a fourth round of
inconclusive Mideast peace talks without an agreement on when
and where to meet again.
   ---
   Federal health officials advised doctors to be more
aggressive in giving patients strong doses of painkillers
after surgery, in order to prevent unnecessary suffering. In
some cases, doctors shouldn't wait until a patient complains
before administering drugs, according to guidelines issued by
the Department of Health and Human Services.
   ---
   A dispute has developed concerning the soundness of some
environmental standards as the result of an inquiry into
alleged scientific misconduct. The inquiry involves Herbert
L. Needleman, a research scientist at the University of
Pittsburgh who is a leading figure in the field of lead
poisoning.
   ---
   An Iran-Contra defendant was denied access to millions of
CIA classified documents by a federal judge who said they
were irrelevant to the case. The defendant, Clair George, is
a former CIA deputy director for operations. He was indicted
in September on 10 felony counts of obstruction and lying to
Congress and a federal grand jury.
   ---
   Serbs, Croats and Muslims rallied peacefully in Sarajevo
and at least seven other cities in Bosnia-Hercegovina in a
bid to halt civil war. Tens of thousands of people marched in
the protests, marking one of the biggest anti-war
demonstrations in Yugoslavia since fighting erupted in the
nearby republic of Croatia over eight months ago.
   ---
   Venezuela's Perez announced major political reforms and
steps to ease the effects of economic austerity. The
president, under pressure to resign since a Feb. 4 coup
attempt, said a special assembly would redraft the
constitution and submit it to a national vote. He also froze
fuel prices and set a ceiling on prices for basic foodstuffs.
   ---
   Ukraine's leader asked Parliament for emergency powers
over the former Soviet republic's economy and named a new
minister to take charge of reform efforts. President Kravchuk
has faced mounting criticism of Ukraine's failure to follow
Russia in announcing a coherent reform plan.
   ---
   The African National Congress hailed a tentative agreement
with South Africa's white leaders on a multiracial interim
government that could bring ANC President Mandela into the
cabinet this year.