Waste Management Plans Public Offer
   Of 20% Stake in Its Foreign Operations
   ----
   By Jeff Bailey
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Waste Management, the world's largest trash hauler and
commercial hazardous waste handler, favors placing a minority
stake of its various operations in public hands to broaden
its access to financing.
   The Oak Brook, Ill., company filed yesterday with the
Securities and Exchange Commission to offer 30 million shares
in Waste Management International, in the form of 15 million
American depositary shares, each representing two ordinary
shares.
   The remaining 45 million shares of a planned 75 million
share offering would be sold in the U.K. and elsewhere
overseas, the company said, with anticipated prices of $9 to
$11 an ordinary share, or $675 million to $825 million for
the entire offer.
   Waste Management, the parent company, currently owns 70%
of the international unit, or 210 million shares. Its two
other big majority-owned units, Chemical Waste Management
Inc. and Wheelabrator Technologies Inc., each own 15%. Based
on the accounting used in public offerings of Chemical Waste
Management stock, the three companies are expected to record
big gains from the stock sale: more than $200 million for
Waste Management; and about $50 million each for Chemical
Waste, the hazardous waste unit, and Wheelabrator, which
operates trash-to-energy incinerators. The company wouldn't
comment on any potential gains.
   The offering will cut the three concerns' respective
stakes in the international unit to 56%, 12% and 12%.
   Chambers Development's disclosure earlier this week that
abandoning an unusual accounting method would nearly wipe out
1991 profit dragged down some other garbage-company stocks,
including Waste Management's, even though the accounting
issue isn't a concern for the bigger company. Yesterday,
Waste Management shares regained $1.375 a share in composite
trading on the New York Stock Exchange, to close at $41.875 a
share.
   Because of an aggressive acquisition program, the foreign
unit has been growing rapidly, and is now Europe's biggest
waste concern, hauling trash from 4.9 million homes and trash
and hazardous waste from more than 130,000 businesses. Nearly
half of its business is in Italy, where the unit operates 25
dumps and seven incinerators.
   Because European trash-hauling and disposal remains highly
fragmented, the opportunity for continued rapid expansion is
large. But profit margins haven't been as favorable in Europe
as those Waste Management enjoys in North America.
   The offering of Waste Management International shares is
scheduled to be priced April 6, with trading expected to
start the next day, a company official said.
   Proceeds from the offering would be used to repay
borrowings, $304.2 million to outside lenders and $388
million to the parent company.
   In addition, the parent company agreed to pay to the
foreign unit $285 million over the next 50 years to fund
certain environmental cleanup costs.
   The offerings are being managed here and abroad by Merrill
Lynch  Co. The U.S. securities will trade on the Big Board
under the symbol WME.