These Knights in Shining Armor
   May Not Be Bowled Over Easily
   ----
   By Virginia Daut
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
"I don't know of any jousting leagues," says Delegate
Charles W. Kolodziejski, who sponsored the legislation.
   Devotees of duckpin bowling claim that their sport,
although lacking the pageantry of jousting, attracts more
players -- about 35,000 league players in Maryland alone,
according to the National Duckpin Bowling Congress. Moreover,
the bowlers say their sport -- unlike jousting -- is
indigenous to Maryland, having originated in Baltimore in
1903.
   "We don't think jousting is representative of the people
here," says Jean Miskimon, advertising account executive for
Fair Lanes Inc., an operator of bowling centers that's
leading the legislative push. Jousters, however, contend that
the bowling legislation is less than altruistic. "Duckpin
bowling is a commercial enterprise," says Mary-Lou Bartram of
the Maryland Jousting Tournament Association, who jousts
under the name "Maid of Bartram Manor."
   "Jousting is part of our Maryland history, dating back to
1634. . . . Duckpin bowling is a hand-me-down from tenpin
bowling," says Mike Virts, champion jouster whose title is
"Knight of St. Marks." (Duckpin bowling differs from tenpins
in that the balls are smaller and the pins are squatter.)
   Anointed 30 years ago as the state sport, modern jousting
is a bloodless variation of the medieval sport. Jousters aim
their lances not at their fellow horsemen, but at a series of
small rings dangling on strings. Mr. Virts estimates that 500
people joust in Maryland today.
   The duckpin bowlers aren't the only sports fans trying to
unseat the jousters. Also seeking state recognition are
lacrosse lovers, who have campaigned for the past four years
to make their sport either the state sport or the state game.
Last week, a bill was submitted -- the second in two years --
to name lacrosse the state game and leave jousting the state
sport.
   Meanwhile, if the duckpin bill fails to pass, Delegate
Kolodziejski is willing to compromise: "I'm prepared to make
{duckpin} bowling the indoor state sport, and jousting the
outdoor state sport."