Brady Seeks `National Banking System'
   In His Request for Interstate Branching
   ----
   By Kenneth H. Bacon
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Interstate branching would allow the banking industry to
save billions of dollars by promoting consolidation and
ending duplicative costs, advocates say. Mr. Brady stressed
that the savings would strengthen the banking industry,
reduce the number of bank failures and slow the drain on the
bank deposit insurance fund.
   Separately, Federal Reserve Board Chairman Alan Greenspan
said the agency plans to rule "within the next several
months" on several proposals to ease restrictions between
banks and bank affiliates that sell securities. The
proposals, which the Fed made more than a year ago, apply to
interlocking directorates, cross-marketing of products, the
purchase and sale of U.S. government agency securities and
the sale of mutual-fund shares. Mr. Greenspan made his
comments in a letter responding to an inquiry from Rep. John
Dingell (D., Mich.).
   The administration pushed hard for interstate branching
last year, but Congress stripped the idea from the banking
bill it passed. The issue split the banking industry.
Although Citicorp, BankAmerica Corp., NationsBank Corp. and
other large multistate banking organizations pushed strongly
for branching authority, the measure was opposed by numerous
smaller banks, who fear that branching will allow a few large
banks to dominate the industry. The branching proposal also
became embroiled in a dispute between banks and their
politically powerful competitors in the insurance and
securities industries.
   The administration's allies have reintroduced interstate
branching and other proposals that failed to pass last year
-- including expansion of bank authority to sell securities
and insurance and permission for commercial firms, such as
Sears, Roebuck  Co., to own banks. Of these, the one most
likely to pass is interstate branching, although the various
plans before Congress will face political obstacles,
particularly in an election year.