FDIC Delays Its Decision on Approving
   $1.3 Billion Pact in Suit Against Milken
   ----
   By Jonathan M. Moses and Paulette Thomas
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
Thomas D. Barr, one of the top lawyers at the New York
firm Cravath, Swaine  Moore, hired by regulators to handle
the suit, will travel to Washington today to answer questions
about the proposed settlement.
   Mr. Barr, whose law firm stands to earn at least $40
million if the deal is approved, may have a tough time
assuaging the agency's concerns. He is expected to tell the
board that, just as in any settlement, each side is getting a
little bit of what it wants. But there may be concerns,
because Mr. Milken, after paying his share of the settlement,
would remain in control of as much as $500 million, including
$125 million of his own, and the remainder in trusts held by
his immediate family.
   Under the proposed settlement, the FDIC would receive $500
million of the $1.3 billion total to compensate for losses to
savings and loans allegedly caused by manipulation of the the
junk-bond market. Other plaintiffs would get about $700
million, and Drexel's fixed creditors would get slightly less
than $100 million.
   "This is a hot political potato," said William Seidman,
former chairman of the FDIC. Mr. Seidman said that although
he was disappointed that Mr. Milken would keep several
hundred million dollars, the settlement "is $500 million that
the taxpayers won't have to pay" for SL losses. "If they
don't get it done fast, it could be in danger of falling
apart."
   The FDIC is the last holdout among the government agencies
suing Mr. Milken and others. The Resolution Trust Corp.,
which is also suing Mr. Milken, has approved the settlement,
contingent upon the FDIC's approval, individuals familiar
with the settlement negotiations said. The Securities and
Exchange Commission, which allowed $400 million Mr. Milken
already paid to go into the overall settlement pot, also has
approved the deal.
   A spokesman for the FDIC wouldn't say what information the
agency requested, but according to people familiar with the
negotiations, the agency wants its lawyers to explain why the
Milken family trusts, which were sued but have been left out
of the settlement, wouldn't be required to contribute. And
the agency is asking for more information about the amounts
being contributed by each of Mr. Milken's co-defendants,
which include his brother Lowell. So far, Mr. Milken's side
has refused to disclose the specific amounts paid by each
person to the FDIC.
   Bank regulators also are concerned about how the
settlement might influence the Internal Revenue Service in
deciding whether Mr. Milken has to pay capital-gains tax on
the securities he sells to raise money for the deal.
   Even though the FDIC delayed its decision, Judge Pollack,
who has ordered lawyers to keep mum about the negotiations,
felt confident enough of the settlement that he allowed
Drexel's lawyers to disclose the terms in a public briefing
last week.
   Under the settlement, Mr. Milken would contribute $900
million, including $400 million from the SEC settlement. An
additional $300 million would come from the interests of
about 200 former Drexel employees in partnerships linked to
some of the investment bank's most prominent deals of the
1980s. About $100 million would come from Drexel's liability
insurance.
   In return, the settlement closes lawsuits alleging fraud
that were filed against Mr. Milken and others by Drexel
itself, thrift regulators and more than 100 groups of
investors. Mr. Milken is serving a 10-year prison sentence
for criminal charges related to securities fraud.