Politics  Policy -- Campaign '92:
   Despite Crisis in the Clinton Camp, Bob Kerrey
   Is Still Struggling to Connect With the Electorate
   ----
   By Dennis Farney
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The Kerrey campaign is still struggling to connect -- and
to exploit the opportunity presented by the crisis in the
campaign of Bill Clinton. Regarded by many as the only other
first-tier candidate in the race, Mr. Kerrey should have
broken out this week, but didn't. The fundamental reason, as
the candidate himself suggests, is that Mr. Kerrey has yet to
establish himself as a credible alternative.
   "We really have not done the work of letting people know
who I am," he acknowledges in an interview.
   So far, Mr. Kerrey appears to have gained nothing from the
Clinton upheaval. Clinton poll ratings did swoon initially,
then stabilized in the mid to upper 20s. But the big gainer
was candidate Paul Tsongas, who surged into the same range.
Mr. Kerrey remains static at best, hovering around a little
more than 10%. To some professional observers, the Nebraska
senator has actually lost ground. Even some Kerrey insiders
are gloomy about their candidate's prospects.
   As of today, says Jerry Chervinsky, who conducts polls for
the Boston Globe, "Kerrey is nowhere."
   Yet the strategic opening still exists. The Clinton
candidacy still seems vulnerable. Nobody else has taken off,
with the possible exception of Mr. Tsongas, and most
political experts still doubt his staying power. A majority
of New Hampshire's Democrats remain undecided or soft; if
history is any guide, their vote won't break until the final
days of the campaign. Mr. Devine notes that at this point in
1984, Gary Hart stood at well under 10% in the polls, yet
surged in the final days to beat Walter Mondale handily. He
predicts a similar late surge for Mr. Kerrey, fueled in part
by powerful new ads detailing the candidate's Vietnam heroism
and recuperation.
   A turnaround could occur if the candidate finally
establishes his identity. But that was supposed to be the
least of Bob Kerrey's problems. He entered the race as a
recipient of the Medal of Honor. He was a complex and
intriguing figure who had moved Nebraska audiences to tears,
a man of action who could also quote Camus.
   But Bob Kerrey was also a political rookie -- he has been
in only two campaigns in his life -- and he jumped into the
presidential race without much preparation. "I didn't
estimate very clearly the difficulty of saying in 15 minutes
what I want to do as president," he concedes now. As for
Camus, he adds wryly, "It's the Camus factor that confuses
people. Sometimes it confuses me."
   But something more than the Camus factor seems to be at
work here. At bottom, the reflexive instincts of Bob Kerrey
the individual seem out of sync with the needs of Bob Kerrey
the candidate.
   Athough Mr. Kerrey is certainly capable of giving a
rousing speech, an innate reserve often inhibits him from
doing so. His low-key speeches can disappoint even voters
who, like Holly Zurer of Portsmouth, badly want to be sold.
   "I think he's smart enough to be president," Ms. Zurer
concluded after making a special effort to listen to Mr.
Kerrey a second time. "I'm not sure he's smart enough to get
elected president."
   Similarly, Mr. Kerrey's gut reactions can make for some
erratic campaign statements. Mr. Kerrey's first public
reaction to the allegations about Mr. Clinton was to urge
audiences to "send a message" to America that sensational
journalism has no place in a presidential campaign. With some
difficulty, Kerrey strategists talked him into dropping that
line, pointing out that voters could send such a message only
by voting for Mr. Clinton.
   Then, on Wednesday, Mr. Kerrey abruptly changed course,
blasting Mr. Clinton for "insensitive" remarks about New York
Gov. Mario Cuomo on the very tape recordings originally cited
by the tabloid newspaper. Mr. Clinton by then had already
apologized to Gov. Cuomo, but Mr. Kerrey said the "extremely
weak apology" gave him "serious doubts about the nature of
the candidate himself."
   More important, Mr. Kerrey lately has taken flak for
shifts on substantive issues, notably for making a
protectionist-sounding ad despite a Senate voting record that
tilts toward free trade. He argues that he remains a free
trader and is simply calling attention to a trade war the
Japanese already have launched. Despite criticism that he has
become a Johnny one-note on health care, he's sticking with
that issue, in fact making it a central theme of his
campaign.
   As it nears its crucial New Hampshire test, the Kerrey
campaign increasingly portrays him as a fighter. The new
emphasis, likely to show up in tonight's candidate debate on
public television, ties into his war record.
   The idea, says communications director Mike McCurry, is
not only to focus the message but to link it in a very
personal way to Mr. Kerrey's extraordinary life story. The
hope is that Mr. Kerrey will be seen as a man "who will go to
the mat for you and fight for you in a personal way."
   At his best, as in a speech here the other night, Mr.
Kerrey makes the "fight" theme work. He struck a chord in
this recession-ravaged state by evoking his own recovery from
amputation of his lower right leg. "I do know what it's like
to be flat on your back, feeling bitterness and betrayal,
having to put your life back together," he said. He then
pledged to fight as hard as president as he did in Vietnam --
to "fight to save lives" with his national health-insurance
plan, to "fight a right-wing Supreme Court that seems
determined to take away every single freedom we have."
   Kerrey supporters believe the new approach has time to
work. "We're just coming to the point where people start
making up their minds," says Jeanne Shaheen, a state Senator
and architect of Gary Hart's stunning 1984 victory here.
   Neutral observers say the jury is still out. "My sense is
that this race is still very fluid," says Ned Helms, a
Democrat who's running for governor. "There's now a
recognition in New Hampshire that Bob Kerrey is a very
different kind of candidate. How that will translate, I don't
know."