Health:
   Insurers Move to Cut Piles of Paper Work
   ----
   By Ron Winslow
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Insurance-industry officials are working with the American
National Standards Institute, or ANSI, to address a major
obstacle to wide use of the technology: the 400 different
electronic data formats currently on the market to transmit
medical claims. Officials hope a standard format will be
endorsed later this year, ultimately clearing the way for
doctors and hospitals to use the same format for all their
claims.
   Meanwhile, National Electronic Information Corp., a
Secaucus, N.J., consortium of major insurers, is evaluating
proposals from 10 major companies to develop a prototype
information network. Among other things, the network will use
so-called card-swipe devices -- much like those used to
process credit-card sales -- to provide instant information
regarding a patient's eligibility for benefits and other
data. Insurers are also exploring reimbursing health
providers electronically.
   "The spotlight is turned on the industry now," says
Kenneth J. O'Donnell, president and chief executive officer
of the industry consortium, known as NEIC, which collects
claims from providers and distributes them to about 45
different insurance companies. "The claims-processing problem
is becoming a high priority item."
   The stakes are enormous. Louis Sullivan, secretary of
Health and Human Services, says electronic processing of the
four billion medical claims generated each year should save
at least $8 billion. More significant, so-called managed-care
techniques that employers and their carriers are adopting to
control health costs depend on the collection and analysis of
more data than is routinely included on a medical-claims
form.
   "The cost of administering that data without technology is
going to become prohibitively high," says Alice Lusk,
president, of the health and benefits division at General
Motors Corp.'s Electronic Data Systems unit. Adds Lynn
Etheredge, a health-care consultant in Chevy Chase, Md.:
"It's hard to be credible saying you can manage sophisticated
medical care if you can't even pay the bills."
   Labor-intensive, error-prone claims paper work is a major
reason administrative costs gobble up, by some estimates, 20%
or more of the health-care dollar. As the U.S. health-policy
debate heats up, such costs have made the insurance industry
a major target of both supporters of a private-sector based
system and advocates of a Canadian-style system, where
administrative costs are insignificant.
   "If the private insurance industry wants to survive, {it
has} got to get the percent of premium that goes to
administration below 10% to 12%," says Uwe Reinhardt, a
Princeton University health economist.
   But obstacles loom. Despite well-established technology to
perform the task, just 5% to 10% of all claims paid by major
commercial insurance carriers, including Travelers Corp.,
Aetna Life  Casualty Co. and Metropolitan Life Insurance
Co., are processed by computer. The lack of a standard
electronic claims format is one big reason. Among other
factors: lingering skepticism about the benefits among some
insurers and providers, as well as worries about
confidentiality.
   Commercial insurers account for about 250 million claims
each year, only a small fraction of the total filed in the
U.S., and their electronic efforts lag well behind other
major players. The Medicare program processes 89% of hospital
bills and 47% of physician claims electronically, while Blue
Cross and Blue Shield plans move, on average, 60% of hospital
and 20% of doctor claims by computer. Both organizations
consider achieving a near-100% rate a top priority.
Meanwhile, business coalitions in Seattle, Memphis, Des
Moines and Cleveland are developing electronic networks
designed to collect medical claims for such purposes as
tracking data on cost and quality of health care.
   A paper-handling operation is loaded with redundancies.
Providers pay clerks to file claims, insurers pay other
clerks to process the claims, and, increasingly, employers or
their carriers pay other clerks to process claims again for
analysis. In the process, the same data are repeatedly
transferred from paper to computer storage and back to paper
again.
   But prospects of handling many different electronic
formats in automating claims processing is just as daunting.
Health providers don't do enough business with any one
insurer, with the exception of Medicare, to justify investing
in the technology and staff training necessary to submit
electronic claims -- especially if different technology is
necessary for each payer. Industry officials liken the
situation to the early days of automatic teller machines when
people could get cash only from machines owned by their own
bank. Today, anyone with a bank card can get cash from almost
any machine in the U.S.
   The officials believe a standard endorsed by the standards
institute will help lead to an analogous position in the
health-care market. One reason is that the U.S. Health Care
Financing Administration, or HCFA, which administers
Medicare, has pledged to adopt an institute standard. HCFA is
requiring that all Medicare providers file claims
electronically.
   Meanwhile, Medicare, Blue Cross and Blue Shield plans, as
well as commercial insurers, are experimenting with
electronic claims reimbursement that might help overcome
another marketplace hurdle: the belief among some providers
that claims-processing technology solves an insurance-company
problem without curing some of their own. For instance, some
doctors have found they get reimbursed faster with paper
claims than electronic ones.
   NEIC's Mr. O'Donnell acknowledges that for many insurers
the volume of electronic claims is still so low that they
disrupt rather than streamline processing and delays may
result. He says that with increased volume, as well as the
ability to automate reimbursement so money and accounting
data are shipped electronically, payment of claims should be
faster under an electronic system.
   More significant, officials believe, electronic
transactions will contribute to forces already reshaping
health care by turning claims administration from a
proprietary service into a commodity. That means insurers
increasingly will compete on ability to gather medical as
well as financial data and to use them to manage the health
costs of their customers.
   "Our biggest interest is to improve the management of our
overall health programs," says Stephen F. Coady, president
and chief executive of Health Economics Corp., a consulting
firm in Dallas. "In the long run, administrative expenses
will be trivial. The concern is getting the data."