If L.A. Keeps Growing, the Town
   Will Soon Be Just Another Suburb
   ----
   By Joan E. Rigdon
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
It all began in a traffic jam in December. Mr. McCarthy,
fuming amid the fumes, suddenly heard a voice: "Move to Grand
Junction." After all, the radio commercial urged employers,
the town offers lots of water and no traffic snarls.
   Mr. McCarthy tracked down the "enemy" trying to steal jobs
from the land of glitz: the Mesa County, Colo., Economic
Development Council, which had bought six weeks of drive-time
radio spots in L.A., hoping to attract small businesses.
   The rest is history. Mr. McCarthy's first scathing review
of Grand Junction brought hate mail from townsfolk and a
return salvo from their daily newspaper, which called the
Stepford wives comment a "blow below the garter belt." In his
next column, Mr. McCarthy threatened, "Be nice or I'll post
your glossy Grand Junction Chamber of Commerce brochure" at
Los Angeles unemployment offices.
   In the end, Mr. McCarthy got his: an invitation to visit.
With his shades but no Rollerblades, he flew east last week,
expecting to mosey around town on his own. But "they had me
nailed right at the plane," he recalls. The Chamber of
Commerce, he says, met him with a three-page (optional, they
said) itinerary and tried, unsuccessfully, to pick up his
hotel tab.
   The next three days were a blur of elk steak (a bit too
beefy for Mr. McCarthy, who avoids red meat), beer and
boosterism. He met town heavies, including former Los
Angelino Burk Wright, who moved his industrial textiles
business to Grand Junction last year. Mr. Wright's new
mantra: "I can see my shipping dock from my front lawn." Mr.
McCarthy's name for Mr. Wright: Benedict Arnold.
   But Grand Junction isn't bad, Mr. McCarthy decided, and he
is considering retracting the Stepford wives statement. "I've
met a lot of sharp women here."
   The town says its ads have drawn about 45 inquiries from
Southern California businesses. But so far, none have signed
on the dotted line. No wonder, says Mr. McCarthy: When
hunting season opens, "you're likely not to have a work
force."