Hong Kong Sees
   High Interest
   In Airport Jobs
   ---
   Key Interests Are Drawing
   Many Foreign Bidders;
   Recession Acts as Spur
   ----
   By Stephen F. Stine
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Those involved in the bidding process also confess that
the possibility of participating in such a huge project is a
further enticement. "For people in the business, this is the
chance of a lifetime," says Albert Bast, a Hong Kong-based
vice president of U.S. architectural consultancy Parsons
Brinckerhoff International Inc.
   In all, 72 airport-related contracts are expected to be
awarded between now and 1995. Massive land reclamation
projects are required before construction of the 3,087-acre
airport can even begin. Over the course of the next decade, a
network of roads, public transportation systems and port
facilities will extend north from the airport to southern
China. There also will be scores of landfill,
sewage-treatment and housing projects.
   In the next few months, however, the government will begin
doling out the more high-profile contracts. Analysts say the
plum -- at least in prestige, if not in valueis the
airport-design contract, valued at about HK$7.8 billion.
"This is the mantelpiece. . . Whoever wins this one sets
himself up for dozens of future contracts," one hopeful
bidder says. The winner is expected to be announced as early
as next week.
   Competition began last year with about 33 groups
approaching the Provisional Airport Authority, or PAA, the
government-appointed body responsible for awarding and
overseeing core airport projects. The list eventually was
trimmed to three consortia.
   Until recently, a group led by U.S.based design and
engineering firm Greiner International Ltd. seemed to be
headed for victory, in part because another Greiner
consortium won a HK$260 million contract almost two years ago
to produce a preliminary design and layout of the airport.
"Everyone views them as the incumbent. And we all know how
hard it is to displace an incumbent," says a member of one of
the competing groups.
   But sources now say the PAA favors a British consortium
led by engineering firm Mott Connell Ltd., and joined by
airport-management group BAA PLC, and architectural-design
group Foster Associates. The group's chief architect, Sir
Norman Foster, designed the Hong Kong  Shanghai Banking
Corp. headquarters, completed in 1985. The third contender
for this contract is a partnership between U.S. firm Parsons
Brinckerhoff, Scott Wilson Kirkpatrick Consulting/Engineering
of Britain and Hong Kong architectural consultants Wong Tung
 Partners Ltd.
   The PAA declines to comment on the selection.
   The next two major contracts, to be awarded in May and
each valued at about HK$9 billion, will be for site
preparation and a 4,719-foot suspension bridge -- the longest
in the world. Combined with a proposed expressway, this will
link the site, on the island of Chek Lap Kok off Lantau
Island, with the Kowloon peninsula. While the former is less
technical, the bridge requires first-rate engineering skills.
   The timely completion of these two is essential if the
airport is to open on schedule. The government is determined
to have the new facility operational by mid-1997.
   Of the four contenders for the suspension bridge, Hyundai
Engineering  Construction Ltd. of South Korea is said to
have offered the lowest bid at HK$6 billion. The other three
consortia-led by Nishimatsu Construction Co. of Japan,
Trafalgar House PLC of Britain and Leighton Contractors of
Australia-supposedly have offered bids HK$2 billion to HK$3
billion higher. "Given the government's cost constraints, it
will be awfully hard to turn down the Korean offer," an
analyst says.
   Six groups prequalified for the site preparation contract
in November. Bids were submitted a week ago and the contract
will probably be awarded in May.
   The present frenzy of competition is a far cry from the
atmosphere less than a year ago. At that time, China was
refusing to endorse the airport project, partly because of
fears that the British colonial government would dole out the
lion's share of work to compatriot contractors and partly for
fear that the massive project would leave Hong Kong's public
coffers drained by the time Beijing regained sovereignty over
the territory in 1997. But in early July, China gave its
approval in exchange for limitations on public spending and
the establishment of a consultative committee with Chinese
representation.
   Since then, says a spokesman for the commercial section of
the U.S. Consulate General in Hong Kong: "The phone hasn't
stopped ringing."
   In addition to the economic impetus for entering the
bidding fray in Hong Kong, analysts say it is also a way for
overseas builders to enhance their presence in Asia. The
rapidly developing countries of Southeast Asia are budgeting
billions of dollars for new roads, highways, ports and other
infrastructure.