Health:
   Is Popeye Doomed? Some Experts Sound
   Warnings About Ingesting Too Much Iron
   ----
   By David Stipp
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Now some prominent medical experts are sounding cautionary
notes about iron. Says James D. Cook, a leading iron expert
at the University of Kansas Medical Center in Kansas City: "I
haven't seen enough information {about the risks of too much
iron} to make a clear statement. But I've been privately
concerned for many years about iron overload."
   A few iconoclasts go further, arguing that millions of
Americans are overdosing on iron, potentially increasing
their chances of getting cancer, heart disease, arthritis and
even wrinkles. They add that doctors are overdiagnosing
anemia -- a condition often caused by too little iron -- and
prescribing too much iron and that iron supplements are
causing harm.
   Iron has a "dark side" that few doctors recognize,
maintains Randall Lauffer, an assistant professor at Harvard
Medical School and author of "Iron Balance," a recently
published book attacking the conventional wisdom on iron. Our
diets are loaded with it, partly from iron added to breakfast
cereals and other foods, causing it to build up in most
adults as they age, he says. Eventually, it overloads our
internal regulatory systems and becomes a metabolic loose
cannon, wildly firing tissue-damaging atoms and molecules
called free radicals in reactions within our cells.
   "There's no compelling evidence for that," counters Paul
Starkey, medical director of SmithKline Beecham PLC's
consumer-brands unit, which makes Geritol and other iron
supplements. "I don't believe people in large numbers are
suffering damage from iron. Anemia is a very common problem
in the U.S., and it doesn't make sense to restrict
availability of such a valuable nutrient as iron."
   Some Americans, particularly younger women and children in
low-income families, are still iron-deficient. But health
surveys indicate the problem is increasingly rare. In men,
the hereditary iron overload disease now appears to be much
more common than iron-deficiency anemia, notes Kansas
University's Dr. Cook.
   Why then aren't many of us sick and dying with iron
overload? Many of us are, assert the iconoclasts. But the
fallout from iron overload has long been obscured, they add,
because its signs -- including liver damage, arthritis,
diabetes, impotence and heart failure -- are easily confused
with other disorders. Just ask Hedwig Mury.
   In 1972, her husband, John, told his doctor he was feeling
tired all the time. Tests indicated he had cirrhosis of the
liver -- a disease often caused by heavy drinking. But Mr.
Mury was a light drinker, says Mrs. Mury, a resident of
Weekiwachee, Fla. No one tested his iron levels.
   A few years later, Mr. Mury suffered from sharp chest
pains and was diagnosed with heart disease. He also had
arthritis, symptoms of diabetes and still felt constantly
tired, says Mrs. Mury. He underwent a coronary-bypass
operation but afterward felt as sick as ever. His doctor
prescribed iron, but it didn't help.
   In fact, it hurt: In 1981, Mr. Mury was finally diagnosed
correctly with hemochromatosis, the inherited disease that
causes iron overload. He immediately began blood withdrawals
-- the standard treatment for the condition, which can arrest
its damage if begun early enough. In a subsequent lawsuit
against five doctors, Mr. Mury won a $500,000 settlement,
says Mrs. Mury. But his health worsened, and he died in 1990
at age 63 from complications of the disease.
   Such cases have proliferated in recent years, says Roberta
Crawford, founder of the Iron Overload Diseases Association,
a North Palm Beach, Fla., hemochromatosis support and
education group. At least a dozen lawsuits like Mr. Mury's
have been filed against health-care providers, including one
reportedly settled for more than $1 million, she adds.
   Hemochromatosis was once considered rare. But in 1988
University of Utah researchers reported that blood samples
from 11,065 donors indicated about one in 200 Americans have
it, making it one of the most common inherited diseases. Some
people with it never show ill effects. Others show symptoms,
such as brownish skin, early in life and die young.
   The Utah study also indicated that an astonishing one in
seven Americans carries one faulty gene for the disorder in
their cells. They aren't at risk for the fullblown disease,
which occurs in people with two of the recessive
hemochromatosis genes. But people carrying only one of the
genes tend to have significantly higher iron levels than
people without it.
   Moreover, in developed countries, even people without the
faulty genes typically build up stores of iron in their
bodies as they age. According to one theory, that's because
our animal ancestors had trouble getting enough iron, which
is needed to make hemoglobin, the oxygen-carrying molecule in
red blood cells. Thus, evolution equipped our bodies with
mechanisms to conserve it. For youngsters and women before
menopause, who need relatively large amounts of iron, that's
not much of a problem, say the iron iconoclasts. But it's
hurting others, they assert.
   One of their strongest arguments is based on research
suggesting high iron levels increase the risk of dying from
certain kinds of cancer. In one study, rats fed iron-rich
diets developed more malignant tumors when injected with
cancer-causing agents than similarly injected rats on
low-iron diets.
   Several human studies also are consistent with the theory
that high amounts of iron increase the risk of cancer, says
Richard G. Stevens, an expert on iron and cancer at Battelle
Pacific Northwest Laboratories, Richland, Wash. In a study he
led, researchers analyzed data from a federal survey on
health and nutrition and found significantly more cancer
cases among men with high iron levels than among those with
lower iron.
   After that study, published in 1988 in the New England
Journal of Medicine, the iron debate heated up considerably.
One critic of the study, Ray Yip, an iron expert at the
Centers for Disease Control in Atlanta, says he recently
conducted a similar analysis of the federal data that "didn't
corroborate" Dr. Stevens's finding. The critics add that a
major study in Finland also showed no added cancer risk from
high iron levels. But in an interview, Antti Reunanen, one of
the Finnish researchers, says he and colleagues recently
reanalyzed their data and found a "somewhat positive"
correlation between high iron levels and certain
gastrointestinal cancers.
   One explanation of this link might be that cells need iron
to mulitply; hence more iron may make tumors grow faster.
Additionally, free radicals formed by iron are thought to
damage DNA, perhaps causing cells to multiply out of control.
   Indeed, one of the most popular theories on aging posits
that our bodies decline and fall because of cumulative
free-radical damage to DNA and other molecules. Some
researchers believe iron is a major co-conspirator with the
radicals.
   Our cells normally store iron in ferritin molecules, where
it can't assist in forming the radicals, explains Joe M.
McCord, an expert on free radicals at the University of
Colorado. But studies show certain "relatively mild-mannered"
radicals sometimes formed in the body, called superoxide, can
knock iron out of ferritin, freeing it to form destructive
radicals. Thus, high levels of stored iron may continually
feed the radical rampage that makes us old.
   Heart disease has been tentatively linked to high iron
levels. Studies indicate that iron-generated free radicals
are responsible for much of the tissue damage during heart
attacks. Another link stems from a mystery: Why do
pre-menopausal women rarely suffer from heart disease?
   A common theory is that the hormone estrogen somehow
protects them from the disease. But Jerome L. Sullivan, a
researcher at the Medical University of South Carolina in
Charleston, argues that the women's relatively low level of
stored iron, due to menstruation, is more likely to be the
protective factor. That would explain studies showing that
women who take estrogen after menopause don't have lower risk
of heart disease.
   So how much iron is enough? Harvard's Dr. Lauffer
recommends that adults keep their levels of "storage iron,"
the form packed away in ferritin, at between 100 and 400
milligrams -- a level many people, particularly meat-eating
men, can reach only by regularly giving blood. (Higher levels
may be needed for children and pregnant women, he cautions.)
   Others disagree. "I'm not convinced there's a good
argument" for most people to cut down on iron, says Walter
Mertz, director at the U.S. Department of Agriculture's Human
Nutrition Research Center in Beltsville, Md.
   For its part, the Food and Drug Administration has shifted
in recent years from its traditional emphasis on iron
deficiency to "put more effort on iron overload issues," says
John Vanderveen, director of the agency's division of
nutrition. He adds that the FDA recently has proposed cutting
the longstanding recommended daily allowance for iron of 18
milligrams to a "reference daily intake" of 12 milligrams --
perhaps inducing food companies to cut the amount of iron
they add to products.