So You Want to Get Your Roof Fixed...
   ----
   By Richard Rosenow
It is very likely that you won't know from a visual
examination whether asbestos is present. In that case, you
will have to cut a sample from the roof, and patch it to
avoid leaks at the point of the sample cut. You will then
send the sample, after you have bagged it properly, to an
accredited laboratory, and delay your repair work until the
sample is analyzed. (In some states, only a certified
abatement contractor is allowed to make this test cut.)
   If you discover that asbestos is contained in the roof,
you must:
   Notify the owner (your neighbor) in writing;
   notify the EPA Regional Office (10 days prior to beginning
work, which will mean your neighbor's roof will continue to
leak);
   be sure that at least one person on your repair crew is
trained to satisfy EPA requirements;
   conduct air monitoring on the job, once you are able to
start work, to determine whether emissions of asbestos will
exceed OSHA's action level. You can't do this, of course,
until the 10-day EPA notification period has passed.
   Once you begin any repair work, you will have to
"adequately wet" the materials. EPA defines this as
"thoroughly penetrating" the asbestos-containing material,
which is an interesting concept for a waterproof material
like asphalt. EPA also stipulates that there be no "visible
emissions" on the job, even if you can demonstrate that the
emissions contain no asbestos fibers.
   You will then have to vacuum the dust generated by any
"cutting" that you do, put it in double bags, and take it to
an approved landfill.
   You will also be responsible for prohibiting smoking on
the job site, and are subject to fine if one of your
employees lights up.
   You will probably wonder why your neighbor will be asked
to absorb all of the costs associated with these steps, since
hundreds of test samples have shown no asbestos exposures
above acceptable limits in roofing operations.
   You must ensure that your crew is trained about any
hazardous materials that they may encounter. (These will
include the gasoline you use to power the pump on your
roofing kettle.) You will also have to be sure that copies of
the appropriate Material Safety Data Sheets are present at
the work site, and that all containers are properly labeled.
   Your crew must also be thoroughly trained in handling
these materials. This will be determined not by what steps
you have taken to train them, but by what your employees tell
the OSHA inspector who asks them what they have been taught.
   Because you are transporting asphalt at a temperature
above 212 degrees, so that your crew won't have to wait two
or three hours at your neighbor's home for the asphalt to
heat, you must:
   Mark the side of your roofing kettle with a sticker that
says "HOT" in capital letters;
   complete shipping papers before the truck leaves your
yard;
   have emergency response procedures developed in the event
the kettle should turn over en route to your neighbor's home;
   be sure that your driver has been drug-tested, and has a
commercial driver's license;
   be sure that the driver completes his log sheets for the
day, and stops 25 miles after he leaves your yard to see if
the load has shifted;
   be sure that your kettle has a hazardous material placard,
in addition to the "HOT" sticker mentioned above.
   Because your vehicle is being driven for work-related
matters, you must be sure that the driver wears his seat
belt, and has received driver training. If he does not wear
his seat belt, you, of course, will be fined.
   Assuming you have met other OSHA safety standards, and are
satisfied you will be in compliance with local and state
regulations, it is now safe for you to begin. Your most
dangerous act, however, is yet to come: presenting your
neighbor with his bill, and explaining why your costs have
increased so dramatically in the three years since these
regulations have been promulgated.
   ---
   Mr. Rosenow is president of the National Roofing
Contractors Association in Rosemont, Ill.