REVIEW  OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   Housing Politics
Democrats have been hammering on this nail for years. To
date, the Republicans at HUD have resisted such attempts to
get Washington even deeper into the market for home finance
than it already is. The default rate on FHA lending, which
requires minimal down payments, rose last year to alarming
heights.
   However, the White House is itchy on the issue, too. The
State of the Union speech is likely to contain ideas such as
a targeted tax credit or some dispensation for withdrawing
funds from tax-free retirement accounts to buy a home.
Liberating additional economic activity from income taxation
wouldn't necessarily be a bad thing, though it's difficult to
argue that housing is short of preferences in the existing
tax system.
   Indeed, the problem in getting young households over the
threshold of home-ownership may be as much one of supply as
demand. While there may be a glut of homes in the upper
brackets, industry analysts say the stock of available homes
in lower price ranges is diminishing (also, the Resolution
Trust Corp.'s inventory of single-family homes is small). A
major residential developer such as Kathryn Thompson in
Southern California is building "affordable" units as fast as
she can get financing. But there's the rub.
   James Pugash of Montgomery Securities in San Francisco
agrees that construction capital is the pinch, with the
virtual collapse of the thrift industry and the hawkish
oversight of banking regulators shrinking his state's housing
output by half. Unless supply is increased, government
policies to bolster demand are just going to raise prices.
   Past attempts to suffuse home finance by artifice led to
the creation of the ill-starred savings-and-loan industry.
Now that real estate has been immolated in the flames of the
FIRREA SL bailout bill and suffocated by the subsequent
blanket of bureaucratic foam laid down by the RTC, who knows
whether Washington on balance is a spur or a drag on housing
development? Whichever, it's always better to see policy set
at the state and local levels.
   But in the states and localities, financing isn't the only
restraint on supply. The Kemp Commission several months ago
repeated the advice of a Reagan administration study, to
remove regulatory barriers to the creation of housing.
Nowhere is this more important than in California, where the
amenity and code requirements are alleged to boost prices by
up to $40,000.
   Will we hear some talk about these politically created
problems -- or better yet, see some action -- during the
campaign? It's hard to take seriously politicians' promises
to the "middle class" when they ignore the real housing
problems that politics has already created, in favor of
scattering the golden dust of tax subsidies upon the land.