LEISURE  ARTS -- Bookshelf:
   SDI and the Father of the H-Bomb
   ----
   By David Brock
Along the way, Mr. Broad argues, Mr. Teller's boundless
enthusiasm, hypercreativity and overweening ambition led him
to exaggerate what could be achieved technically in his lab.
This would have been an unexceptional flaw were it not for
the fact that Mr. Teller seemed to have placed himself beyond
the bounds of scientific checks and balances. According to
the author, the physicist ruled Livermore as his personal
fiefdom, ignored outside colleagues who might have challenged
his judgments, and traded on a vast network of political
connections in Washington.
   This section of the book is surely oversimplified. Great
men, especially contrarians like Mr. Teller, don't go through
life without making enemies, and Mr. Broad seems to have
located all of Mr. Teller's. Moreover, Mr. Teller's advocacy
of a vigorous defense put him at odds with the softer views
of the scientific establishment. Perhaps the subject should
have consented to speak with the author.
   In Mr. Broad's view, Mr. Teller's final act, cheerleading
for ballistic missile defenses, was an attempt to offset the
specter of "nuclear genocide" that hung over most of his
career by devising a way to protect against nuclear warheads.
This foray into pop psychology, however, doesn't account for
plainer motivations: countering the then-frightening Soviet
offensive military buildup, and breaking out of the bizarre
policy of mutually assured destruction.
   In 1983, partly on Mr. Teller's advice, President Reagan
announced SDI, with the unrealistic goal of making nuclear
weapons "impotent and obsolete." Mr. Reagan wanted not to
enhance deterrence, but to obviate it with a perfect
territorial defense. The military bureaucracy, the arms
controllers and their agents in Congress opposed SDI because
it threatened the status quo, and so they conspired to
confine it to the research lab.
   Mr. Broad shows how Mr. Teller's pet SDI project, an X-ray
laser powered by nuclear blasts that would zap down enemy
missiles, satisfied both Mr. Reagan and the critics. If it
worked, thousands of beams would make up a "shield that was
virtually leakproof," but the laser entailed a mammoth
research and development effort, and thus would remain
undeployable for years to come. In advancing the exotic
laser, Mr. Teller outmaneuvered advocates of more modest
anti-missile weapons -- space-based chemical lasers and small
interceptor rockets -- that could have been deployed rapidly
and provided the U.S. with partial protection, enough to
deter a Soviet first strike.
   This quest for perfection is why the U.S. has spent $25
billion to date on SDI and doesn't have a widget to show for
it.
   Whether Mr. Teller pulled off a massive "Star Wars
deception," however, is not firmly established. The X-ray
laser turned out to be a turkey. But how was the Pentagon to
know what would and would not work without spending some
money to find out? Secondly, Mr. Teller -- a part-time
director emeritus at Livermore in the 1980s -- apparently had
lots of help in overselling the laser from the lab's
salivating officials, including those who later turned
against him and spoke at length to Mr. Broad. And finally,
Mr. Broad ignores the geopolitical benefits of the laser
effort: It scared the bejesus out of the Soviets.
   By 1987, Mr. Teller had issued a mea culpa on the laser
and began to push the development of smart rocks that could
home in on a much smaller percentage of enemy missiles and
knock them out. Mr. Broad regards this promising idea as
another hoax, but here his case is weak, built mostly on his
personal opinion that strategic defense in any form is both
fanciful and dangerous (an obvious non sequitur).
   The Persian Gulf War, of course, proved Mr. Broad wrong on
both counts. Other pipe dreams notwithstanding, defending
against ballistic missiles is a sensible thing to do. SDI
research is now being marshaled to build a limited defensive
system for the U.S., to guard against an unauthorized or
accidental missile launch or an attack by a wild-eyed Third
World dictator. This may prove to be Mr. Teller's true
legacy, better late than never.
   ---
   Mr. Brock, a journalist in Washington, D.C., is writing a
book on Congress and foreign policy.