Tight Corner:
   From Super Bowls
   To Shopping Malls,
   A Property Baron Slips
   ---
   Cash and Credit Sqeeze
   Forces DeBartolo Empire
   To Restructure Bank Debt
   ---
   A Tough Season for the 49ers
   ----
   By Neil Barsky
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Confidential documents he submitted to bank lenders last
summer show otherwise, however. The documents indicate the
team changes were one tiny piece of a sweeping DeBartolo Inc.
restructuring, one facet of which involves making the
money-losing 49ers profitable -- and easier to sell.
   "The 49ers have implemented drastic roster moves in order
to achieve the goal of a break-even performance for the 1991
season," one document states. It further describes a plan to
sell "a 70% to 80%" stake in DeBartolo's 90% ownership of the
team "during the first half of 1992." Thus, in addition to
their 16-game schedule, the 49ers faced a financial blitz
last season.
   For Mr. DeBartolo, the undisputed king of regional
shopping malls, the blitz is still on. The bank documents,
obtained by The Wall Street Journal, show the DeBartolo
empire in a much tighter cash and credit squeeze than the
outside world could have known. The family-owned enterprise,
still run day-to-day by the 82-year-old patriarch, will
survive. But survival may mean the sale of many assets --
three racetracks and more than a dozen malls and office
buildings -- and perhaps even, for the first time, a large
stake in the overall business.
   In behind-the-scenes negotiations, Mr. DeBartolo has
already agreed to just such a strategy. In addition to asset
sales, his banks will get first and second mortgages on many
prized assets that aren't sold. In return, the banks have
agreed to suspend for about 2 1/2 years principal payments on
much of his $4.04 billion of debt (although the sale of
mortgaged assets will reduce debt somewhat). The proposed
asset sales are designed to ensure that the interest payments
continue.
   "Everything he owns will be hocked to us," says a banker
involved in the negotiations. "In the meantime, the business
plan is to sell, sell, sell."
   As for the 49ers, DeBartolo officials now say if they were
to sell a piece of the team, it would be a minority interest,
and that, currently, isn't necessary.
   In a way, Mr. DeBartolo's troubles illustrate everything
that's gone wrong for many real-estate developers in the last
three years: Plunging values, the credit squeeze, some bad
outside investments and poor financial planning.
   But Mr. DeBartolo is far from a typical developer. Few
businessmen have an impact on their industry quite the way he
has on his. Few have had his staying power, either.
   He began building houses and gas stations in his native
Youngstown after World War II, moved up to strip shopping
centers in the 1950s, and in the 1960s started putting up
huge, enclosed malls from California to Florida.
Single-handedly, he created the largest private retail
real-estate portfolio in the country. And by placing his
malls in suburbs or on the edges of major cities, he changed
the way America shops.
   "He was the pioneer of mall development," says a retailing
consultant, Kurt Barnard.
   Even after the restructuring that's being worked out, Mr.
DeBartolo will remain pre-eminent in the mall business and
the nation's biggest landlord of retail space. But his net
worth is likely to be a small fraction of the $2.2 billion
Fortune magazine estimated for him in 1990.
   DeBartolo Inc. -- 88%-owned by Mr. DeBartolo and the rest
by his two children -- owns, in whole or part, 73 regional
malls, 19 strip shopping centers, eight office buildings,
three racetracks, three hotels, vast tracts of vacant land, a
minority interest in Cleveland-based Higbee's department
stores, and Fun 'N Games, a chain of 74 video game centers in
the Northeast.
   The DeBartolo enterprise employs 7,000 people -- 14,000 in
the peak summer racing season. Every aspect of mall
development -- land acquisition, environmental -- impact
studies, engineering, architecture, construction, financing
and leasing -- is done by the corporation.
   "His malls are showpieces for the entire world," says Mr.
Barnard. "He doesn't cut corners."
   Mr. DeBartolo's troubles today appear to be caused by a
mixture of his own decisions and forces beyond his control,
such as the nationwide slump in retailing.
   A $480 million loan he made to a major mall tenant,
Campeau Corp.'s Federated Department Stores subsidiary, was a
tremendous drain on cash flow. Mr. DeBartolo borrowed to make
the loan, then Federated filed for bankruptcy protection in
1989 and ceased paying it back. But DeBartolo Inc. had to
keep paying interest of about $50 million a year.
   Mr. DeBartolo has retired part of his borrowing through
previous asset sales. Under the restructuring plan, bankers
say, the outstanding balance will be refinanced by his
unsecured bank group (including Chemical Banking Corp., First
Chicago, Mellon Bank and Wells Fargo). In exchange, the
unsecured banks will receive collateral from Mr. DeBartolo.
The collateral includes second mortgages on many of his
properties and a 60% stake in Ralphs Grocery Co., a Los
Angeles chain of 150 supermarkets. Mr. DeBartolo received the
Ralphs stock last week from Campeau when Federated came out
of Chapter 11.
   Like many in his business, Mr. DeBartolo was also caught
unprepared for the harsh downturn in the real-estate market,
but even more so. As late as 1989, he was planning 10 new
malls a year.
   Most serious, bankers say, is that Mr. DeBartolo, so
masterly at construction, has proved less so at financing
projects so as to limit his exposure. Of his $4 billion-plus
in debt, Mr. DeBartolo has guaranteed repayment of about $1.7
billion. That means if he abandons properties he owes money
on, the banks can foreclose on his other assets. (Citicorp
heads the group holding secured loans. The banks won't
comment openly about the restructuring plan.)
   A banker involved in the restructuring says 60% of
DeBartolo properties have negative cash flow or just break
even. DeBartolo chief financial officer Anthony Liberati
counters that the percentage, counting start-ups and
properties under renovation, is actually 35%.
   But the anemic cash flows are not unique to Mr. DeBartolo;
mall developers typically made money based on their asset
appreciation, not by maintaining vast operating profits.
   The credit squeeze altered that equation, say DeBartolo
officials. "The real-estate business changed from an equity
appreciation into a cash-flow business," says DeBartolo
counsel Richard Sokolov. "All of a sudden in 1991 someone
woke up and said `that's a bad idea.'" In other words, while
banks and insurance companies previously were willing to lend
based on the assumed market value of an asset, they suddenly
shifted their strategy and decided to lend only based on cash
flow.
   The credit squeeze has been a problem for every developer.
For Mr. DeBartolo, it could have been a calamity. From 1991
through 1993, a startling $2.3 billion of his $4.04 billion
in loans were due to mature. With property values dropping
and credit for refinancing disappearing, the required
rollovers were the straw that threatened to break the empire.
Instead of letting that happen, Mr. DeBartolo asked his banks
to restructure his loans in 1990. He retained Kenneth
Leventhal  Co., the Los Angeles accountants who advised
developers Donald Trump, John Portman and Trammell Crow in
their bank debt restructurings.
   Mr. DeBartolo doesn't seem to be slowed down by either the
bind or his age. A small, tightly wound man with a thick,
dark mane of combed-back hair, Mr. DeBartolo still arrives at
the office at 5:30 a.m. He often works 12-hour days, seven
days a week, and doesn't take vacations (though business
trips often send him to sunny climes). His main outside
interests are seven grandchildren who live nearby. He
frequently dines at an Italian restaurant he owns called
Paonessa's.
   Mr. DeBartolo was born Edward Paonessa, his father dying
before his birth. He later adopted the surname of his
stepfather, a construction contractor. Mr. DeBartolo is an
engineering graduate from Notre Dame, and in 1989 he gave the
university $33 million for a classroom building and a
performing arts center named for his wife, Maria, who died in
1987.
   His modest ranch home, down the street from his office in
this Youngstown suburb, is the same he built for himself in
1959. He drives a 1988 Lincoln Town Car.
   Mr. DeBartolo has survived different types of challenges.
In the 1960s and 1970s, rumors were rampant in the
real-estate industry linking him to organized crime, and he
has been the subject of a number of federal investigations.
They failed to prove any mob links, and he denies having any
such connections. In 1980, Major League Baseball barred him
from buying the Chicago White Sox partly because of his
involvement in horse racing.
   In the 1980s, the Securities and Exchange Commission
accused Mr. DeBartolo of secretly helping convicted stock
swindler Paul Bilzerian buy stock. Mr. DeBartolo settled the
charges by signing a consent decree in which he neither
admitted nor denied the accusations and paid $2.7 million in
stock profits to the government. Two of his employees wound
up as government witnesses in Mr. Bilzerian's trial.
   The marathon bank negotiations have been humbling for Mr.
DeBartolo. He has sold one of his four private jets and all
but a tiny interest in the Pittsburgh Penguins hockey team,
and he has tried to sell more than a dozen other properties.
For the first time in his career, he has had to put plans for
most new projects on hold. Last fall the squeeze was so tight
he had to take a $20 million bridge loan from First Chicago,
Chemical and Wells Fargo, bankers say. The loan was retired
one day later after Mr. DeBartolo closed on an asset sale,
bankers add. DeBartolo officials decline to comment on this.
   Looming large over the restructuring is the question of
succession at the organization. Mr. DeBartolo is a hands-on
executive who decides every major move. He is in good health
and has no plans to retire. "I want to go with my boots on,"
he laughs. But some bankers are uncertain whether his chosen
successor, son Edward Jr., 44, can fill those boots.
   Eddie, as the son is known, has been running the 49ers and
pursuing his own business ventures. The 49ers won four Super
Bowl championships under his tenure, but financially, they've
been losers. Last year Edward Jr. left his position as team
president, though he's still chairman and chief executive
officer. Mr. DeBartolo Sr. says the change was his son's
decision.
   In the family's overall business, the younger Mr.
DeBartolo is president and chief administrative officer. But
he has not played as prominent a role as his father's top
advisers, Messrs. Liberati and Sokolov. In the recent bank
negotiations, Mr. DeBartolo Jr. has had a minor role at most.
But he says that he'll be prepared to take over when the time
comes, and that the company has strong executives to assist
him.
   Says the father: "The company will be in good hands."
   His daughter, Marie Denise DeBartolo York, is also
involved in the enterprise, as executive vice president of
personnel, marketing and communications.
   According to the bank documents, DeBartolo Inc. is seeking
to sell "a substantial minority interest" in the DeBartolo
company. Last year, the documents state, talks took place
with members of the Agnelli family of Italy, who own a big
stake in Fiat Corp., the Italian car maker. But the talks
have been put on hold.
   Also, according to the documents, Morgan Stanley has been
retained to sell the racetracks -- in Ohio, Oklahoma, and
Louisiana -- and three malls. Wells Fargo, First Chicago,
Bankers Trust, and Sonnenblick Goldman Corp., a New York
mortgage banker, have won assignments to sell or refinance
other DeBartolo properties.
   Mr. Liberati, the chief financial officer, says the
company has changed the mix of assets it intends to sell
since the plan was presented to the banks last year.
DeBartolo Inc. will probably sell its hotels and office
buildings, he says, and keep all but one of its malls. Either
way, Mr. DeBartolo's bankers say, asset sales must take place
to ensure that he keeps up interest payments on his $4
billion of debt.
   Some bankers express surprise at how little financial
planning Mr. DeBartolo appears to them to have done in
anticipation of a downturn. As late as 1989, he continued a
strategy of building about 10 malls a year. But what really
hurt, bankers say, was his decision to go full-bore with
projects even when financing wasn't yet in place. To get a
quick start on a development, Mr. DeBartolo typically used
the company's unsecured revolving credit lines to begin
building until securing safer and less costly construction
financing.
   When values fell and credit dried up over the last two
years, Mr. DeBartolo was left with two unfinanced projects in
construction, in Virginia and Illinois. The company wound up
writing a check for $130 million to cover the costs.
   "In 1985 there were six banks that would have given us
construction loans and four insurance companies that would
have given us permanent loans," says DeBartolo counsel Mr.
Sokolov. "Suddenly there were no banks and no insurance
companies."
   Now Mr. DeBartolo finds himself in a Catch-22: His
troubles require that he sell properties to retire debts. But
because most have been sharply depreciated for tax purposes,
any sale triggers a big tax liability. To offset the tax hit,
he needs to continue to build new properties to gain
depreciation deductions to apply against the gains. But
because of the credit squeeze, Mr. DeBartolo will have a hard
time building new properties.
   As unpleasant as the coming year is likely to be, Mr.
DeBartolo clearly wants to remain at the helm for as long as
possible. He scoffs at the notion that the current round of
restructuring talks will result in anything that will curtail
his ability to do business in the future. "I think there is a
great future potential for the economy of the world and this
country and I want to be here when it happens."