International:
   Western-Style TV Fare Is Dished Out
   To Arab Viewers Via MBC Satellite
   ----
   By Peter Waldman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The network even maintains a news bureau in Israel and
airs fashion shows from Paris, film clips from Hollywood and
make-up tips from London.
   Although some shows are glamorous, MBC isn't racy. Hanifa
Dobson, who hosts its exercise show, wears loose-fitting
sweatsuits rather than leotards. Despite viewer requests, the
network refuses to air videos by Madonna or Prince. "Too
raunchy," explains a producer. Michael Jackson, New Kids on
the Block and George Michael, however, are big MBC favorites.
   MBC is one of a slew of U.S. and European TV networks to
go international, thanks to the proliferation of satellites.
Cable News Network, which spans the globe, still has the
widest reach; but MTV, Discovery Channel and ESPN, among
other U.S. channels, are expanding overseas. In Europe, there
are some 80 satellite-borne TV channels, including such
powerhouse programmers as British Broadcasting Corp. and
France's Canal Plus. While some European networks transmit to
the Middle East, MBC is the only European channel in Arabic.
   "If MBC works, it will be a breakthrough," says Imad
Kublawi, an executive with the London advertising agency TMI.
"You'll be reaching more Arabs, more cost-effectively, than
ever before."
   Against a sizzle of rock music, most MBC programs feature
rapid-fire shots of Arab and European models posing playfully
in world capitals. The network's jumpy, high-tech look is
meant to pump adrenalin into sleepy Mideast TV sets
accustomed to old Lebanese films and government propaganda.
   "MBC is a new medium that we think can stimulate interest
in our target market," says Neville Isdell, a senior vice
president of Coca-Cola Co., an MBC sponsor.
   To ensure its Western feel, MBC's Saudi Arabian backers
put the network in London. British TV veterans write and
produce most MBC shows in English. The scripts are translated
into Arabic and presented by Arabs, mostly women. MBC's
female anchors -- novelties, themselves, in some countries --
don't wear head coverings, a sore point with Muslim
traditionalists, who send in nasty notes but apparently keep
watching.
   The medium is pop culture, but the message is still
politics. MBC, which went on the air in September, reflects a
growing push by the Saudi regime since the Persian Gulf War
to spread pro-Western views throughout the region -- if not
inside Saudi Arabia itself.
   Most of MBC's initial capital, some $36 million for the
first year alone, came from Saleh Kamel, a prominent Saudi
banker, and Walid Ibrahim, brother-in-law of Saudi Arabia's
King Fahd.
   "We want to be purveyors of moderation," says Abdullah
Masry, executive director of MBC's board and Saudi Arabia's
chief archaeologist, who is on leave to oversee the network.
"MBC takes pains to nurture an atmosphere of amity -- even a
contrived one -- between fellow Arabs. Slowly, we hope
through MBC to prepare the air for reconciliation {in the
Mideast}, to be a bridge of understanding."
   The network's executives don't know how many people watch
MBC. Several cable-TV operators carry it in Europe, where
some 5.5 million Arabic-speaking people are living. In
Kuwait, Morocco and Bahrain, government broadcasters
distribute MBC over regular TV airwaves. Elsewhere in the
Arab world, including most of Saudi Arabia, MBC viewers need
a satellite dish to see it.
   But MBC's fans appear to be growing. Majd al-Ansari, a
Kuwaiti businessman who imports satellite dishes to the
region, says dish demand has surged since MBC went on the
air. Likewise, Ali Bahaijoub, a Moroccan journalist, says the
network is a big hit in Northwest Africa. MBC's reports on
the recent turmoil in Algeria have been particularly well
watched, North Africans say, as that nation has clamped down
on its own media.
   "When they hired me, they said, `Steve, we want CNN in
Arabic,'" says Stephen Marney, MBC's head of news.
   Before coming to MBC, Mr. Marney, an Australian, was
foreign editor of Zimbabwe TV, and most recently, a
newsreader for Sky TV, based here. He doesn't speak Arabic,
which may make him the world's only network-news director who
can't understand his own broadcasts.
   MBC News steers clear of controversy. It reports 20 or
more stories in a half-hour show, giving most topics just a
minute or so of air time. But like CNN, its international
reach is making MBC an important messenger.
   Perhaps most important, MBC's reports from Israel have
given Arab viewers their first sustained look at the Jewish
state. "MBC is trying to play fair with us," acknowledges an
Israeli official who deals with the press.