Law:
   Supreme Court Makes It More Difficult
   For Refugees to Gain Asylum in U.S.
   ----
   By Paul M. Barrett
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The case involved a Guatemalan man who said he fled his
homeland in 1987 after armed, masked guerrillas tried to
pressure him to join their rebellion. He added that he feared
he would be killed if he were forced to return.
   The refugee, Jairo Jonathan Elias Zacarias, was arrested
in the U.S. and deemed by immigration authorities to have
failed to demonstrate a well-founded fear of political
persecution. The federal appeals court in San Francisco
reversed that decision, ruling that a guerrilla group's
conscription efforts did constitute political persecution.
The appeals court said that "the person resisting forced
recruitment is expressing a political opinion hostile to the
persecutor and . . . the persecutor's motive in carrying out
the kidnapping is political."
   By a 6-3 vote, the Supreme Court reversed the appeals
court decision and cleared the way for Mr. Zacarias's
deportation. In his opinion for the majority, Justice Antonin
Scalia dismissed the lower court's reasoning and said an
attempt to coerce a person into performing military service
doesn't necessarily equal political persecution.
   Mr. Zacarias failed to demonstrate a political motive for
resisting conscription, Justice Scalia wrote. Non-political
reasons, such as fear of combat or a desire to remain with
his family, could have motivated the defendant, Justice
Scalia asserted. He rejected as "irrelevant" the appeals
court's conclusion that the guerrillas' motive was political.
The "ordinary meaning of the words" of the immigration law
direct judicial attention to "the victim's political opinion,
not the persecutor's," Justice Scalia said.
   In a dissenting opinion, Justice John Stevens asserted
that choosing to remain neutral is a "political decision" and
that the majority had read the immigration law in a "narrow,
grudging" fashion. Justices Harry Blackmun and Sandra
O'Connor joined the dissent.
   Justice Scalia has stirred controversy in legal circles
with his use of the "ordinary meaning" approach to
interpreting laws. Some people contend the approach is simply
a means for limiting certain rights. (Immigration and
Naturalization Service vs. Zacarias)
   Separately, the high court struck down an Oklahoma law
requiring that at least 10% of the coal burned by electric
utilities in the state come from Oklahoma mines.
   The 6-3 ruling favored Wyoming, which had sued Oklahoma,
claiming the coal restriction unconstitutionally interfered
with interstate commerce. The justices agreed, saying that
the law, in effect, excluded coal from other states and
"cannot be characterized as anything other than protectionist
and discriminatory."
   Wyoming, in a special type of suit that states may bring
against each other directly in the Supreme Court, complained
that it was harmed by the Oklahoma law. From 1981 to 1986,
mines in Wyoming provided nearly all of the coal purchased by
Oklahoma utilities. Wyoming doesn't sell coal itself but
taxes those who extract it. The state said it had lost
hundreds of thousands of dollars in revenue because of the
Oklahoma law.
   The high court's decision involved interpretation of the
Constitution's commerce clause, which grants Congress power
to regulate interstate business. But the Supreme Court has
long inferred from the clause a ban against state obstruction
of interstate commerce. This second, implicit meaning of the
clause required invalidation of the Oklahoma law, Justice
Byron White wrote in an opinion for the majority.
   Justice Scalia wrote a dissenting opinion, joined by Chief
Justice William Rehnquist and Justice Clarence Thomas.
Justice Scalia scolded the majority for allowing Wyoming to
bring a suit that he said should have been filed by coal
companies in the state, if anyone. He said that it was the
first time the justices had recognized a state's standing to
bring this type of commerce clause action on the basis of a
tax revenue loss.
   Justice Thomas separately wrote his first dissent, arguing
that even if Wyoming had standing, the Supreme Court
shouldn't have heard the dispute on other procedural grounds.
(Wyoming vs. Oklahoma)