International:
   Russia Seeks Additional $600 Million
   In U.S. Grain Credits for 2nd Quarter
   ----
   By Robert S. Greenberger
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The Russian leader has a strong incentive to slash
military spending because of mounting economic problems. Mr.
Yeltsin, acknowledging that both Mr. Bush and Congress would
have to agree to extend more grain credits, said yesterday
that he had "no doubt about a positive response" from the
U.S.
   The Bush administration already has extended Russia about
$3.75 billion in credits to buy American grain. A U.S.
official said that about $650 million of that amount hasn't
yet been delivered, but Mr. Yeltsin indicated that these
credits would be "implemented" by March or April. Now, Mr.
Yeltsin is requesting $600 million more in credits.
   Following yesterday's meeting, U.S. officials said the
administration would provide Russia with 25 special railroad
cars and containers to safely transport and store nuclear
weapons and components that ultimately would be dismantled
and destroyed. The U.S. also plans to earmark $25 million to
set up, along with Russia and Germany, a clearing house to
channel the talents of scientists into peaceful projects,
either for their own economy or in conjunction with other
governments or private companies. This money would come from
funds previously appropriated by Congress to help the former
Soviet Union.
   The U.S. wants to ensure that the nuclear scientists
aren't tempted by outlaw states or terrorist groups to
"engage in activities that would result in proliferation of
nuclear, biological and chemical weapons and missile delivery
systems," according to a statement released yesterday.
   These measures are ushering in an arms-control era in
which the U.S. is playing an active role in helping the
former Soviet Union make the transition to a market economy
by shifting resources from military to civilian activities.
Mr. Baker underscored this effort last weekend during an
extraordinary visit to Chelyabinsk70, a major Soviet
nuclear-weapons complex in Siberia once closed to Western
visitors, where he discussed these efforts with some of
Russia's scientific elite.
   At the same time, the U.S. and Russia still are
negotiating traditional arms-control issues, specifically how
much further to reduce their arsenals of long-range nuclear
weapons below the levels they had agreed to before the Cold
War ended. Mr. Baker and Russian Foreign Minister Andrei
Kozyrev plan to meet today to discuss proposals made recently
by President Bush and Mr. Yeltsin.
   Mr. Yeltsin, at a news conference yesterday, said he would
meet in July in Washington with Mr. Bush to discuss the full
range of U.S.-Russian issues. A U.S. official said yesterday
that a firm date still hasn't been set.