Foreign Exchange:
   Dollar Gets Boost From Economic Data,
   But Many Players Remain on Sidelines
   ----
   By Charlene Lee
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
In early trading Tuesday in Tokyo, the dollar was at
129.90 yen, up from 129.53 yen at Monday's Tokyo close. The
U.S. currency also was trading at 1.6430 marks, up from
1.6417 marks Monday.
   The dollar gained against the German currency on a
higher-than-expected reading in the National Association of
Purchasing Management's February index and drew additional
support from a rise in U.S. construction spending in January.
   While the data "raised the support platform a little bit"
to 1.6380 marks, they didn't provide enough impetus to
challenge technical-chart resistance at around 1.65 marks,
said Carl F. Amendola, assistant vice president in New York
for Bayerische Hypotheken  Wechsel Bank AG.
   "The dollar seems pretty well supported, but no one wants
to take the first step to push it up over resistance," said
Judy Rubenstein, a vice president at BankAmerica Corp., Los
Angeles.
   Technical traders use charts of a currency's performance
in making investment decisions; support and resistance levels
define the low and high ends of a currency's trading range
and often are points where buy or sell orders have been
placed by participants.
   Instead, traders said many players, including large
corporate participants, are stepping lightly ahead of
Friday's scheduled release of the U.S. unemployment rate and
nonfarm payrolls for February. The figures are expected to
set the tone for the dollar over the next two to three weeks.
   In the meantime, the dollar will probably fluctuate in a
range of 1.63 to 1.65 marks, said Geoffrey Dennis,
international economist and strategist in New York for James
Capel  Co. But yesterday's data, he said, bolstered "the
notion that the U.S. economy is picking up."
   The purchasing managers' index rose to 52.4% in February
from 47.4% the previous month. The rise far surpassed market
expectations, which called for a slight improvement to around
47.7%. A reading above 50% indicates the manufacturing sector
expanded during the month, while a reading below 50% signals
a contraction.
   The currency market was also encouraged by the Commerce
Department's report that U.S. construction spending rose a
seasonally adjusted 1.3% in January after a revised decrease
of 1.6% in December. The December decline was previously
estimated at 0.2%.
   But BankAmerica's Ms. Rubenstein pointed out that
bullishness on the dollar was tempered by a 0.1% fall in U.S.
personal income in January. In December, personal income rose
1%.
   "The market is still somewhat bullish (toward the dollar)
overall, but it's very quick to take profits," said
Hypotheken's Mr. Amendola.
   The purchasers' index "was unexpectedly strong, but it's
not proof positive that the economy has turned the corner,"
said Mr. Dennis. To sustain a bullish run in the dollar,
market players "need to see that employment has shown some
decent gains."
   Early estimates from economists surveyed by AP-Dow Jones
call for a rise of 6,000 in nonfarm payrolls in February,
after a drop of 91,000 in January.
   If nonfarm payrolls expand, market observers said they
expect the dollar to leap easily over 1.65 marks and pose a
serious challenge to the next key chart point at 1.6650
marks. Should that level yield, the dollar could rally as
high as 1.68 marks, they added.
   However, if payrolls contract, traders said the dollar
will be mired somewhere between 1.63 and 1.66 marks, with
technical factors dominating dealings.
   The dollar also strengthened against its Japanese
counterpart yesterday but in a razor-thin trading range of
129.45-129.70 yen. Traders said the psychological barrier of
130 yen appears solid for now, despite a Japanese currency
that is plagued by a listless stock market, political
scandals and perceptions of economic slowdown in Japan.
   The Japanese currency was dealt its latest blow over the
weekend, when there appeared to be no consensus to support a
stronger yen at a meeting of finance ministry deputies from
the Group of Seven industrialized nations.
   Traders and analysts said the absence of G-7 unity on
supporting the Japanese currency took many in the market by
surprise and triggered some selling of yen holdings.
   Japanese monetary officials have complained frequently in
recent weeks that the U.S. currency's rise against the yen
doesn't reflect the economic fundamentals of the two
countries.