The Outlook:
   Interest Rates Touch
   Lows for This Cycle
   ----
   By Lindley H. Clark Jr.
The inflation-adjusted gross domestic product for the final
quarter of 1991 was adjusted upward from 0.3% to 0.8%, an
improvement, but hardly a cause for rejoicing. Consumer
confidence still is weak, but the index of the National
Association of Purchasing Management, a gauge closely watched
by Chairman Greenspan, surged by five points in February.
                                                                                                       

   The 53 leading economists interviewed monthly by Blue Chip
Economic Indicators, a Sedona, Ariz., newsletter, now look
for real GDP to edge upward by 0.4% in the current quarter,
and then by 2.4% in the second quarter and by slightly more
than 3.3% in the second half. Robert Eggert, who runs the
survey, continues to worry about consumer sentiment but
insists, "The economy IS picking up."
   The Fed has tried to spur the pickup by reducing
short-term interest rates. The rates on federal funds, the
reserves that banks lend to one another for very short
periods, and the discount rate, the fee the Fed charges on
loans to member banks, have been pushed sharply lower.
Short-term interest rates generally are down 500 basis points
from their 1989 peak.
   But the Fed and the Bush administration would like to see
long-term rates move lower, too. Lower long rates might
encourage firms to increase capital spending. The central
bank conducts most of its open-market operations in
short-term securities, but Chairman Greenspan recently said
it might increase its purchases of Treasury bonds in an
effort to bring down long rates. The Treasury said it might
reduce the supply of Treasury bonds in an effort to achieve
the same result.
                                                                                                       

   Whether or not the Treasury and the Fed have taken such
steps, there has been no noteworthy downturn in long rates.
In fact, long rates actually have moved higher in the past
month. Morris Cohen, a Hackensack, N.J., consultant, suggests
that the Treasury may be overwhelmed by the job of financing
this year's huge $400 billion deficit. However, Mr. Cohen
thinks the current low rate of inflation makes the present
yield on 30-year Treasury bonds -- slightly under 8% -- quite
attractive. If demand increases, he says, these yields may
decline later this year.
                                                                                                       

   At present, Maury N. Harris of PaineWebber Inc. agrees,
the 30-year bonds are unusually cheap. In the 1970s and
1980s, the 30-year bond averaged about 250 basis points over
the annual consumer price inflation rate. The long bond now
is about 500 basis points above the inflation rate.
   The Bank Credit Analyst, a respected Canadian publication,
blames the current stickiness of long-term rates on the
market's "deep mistrust" of economic policy. "The recent
deterioration in the fiscal outlook has been staggering," the
Bank Credit Analyst says. "The lack of fiscal discipline
warns that there is a long-run inflationary bias in U.S.
economic policy."
   What happens to government policy in this election year
may be the most important factor in the outlook. President
Bush is in trouble already, and an anti-deficit battle with
the Democrats would bring new charges that he doesn't care
about the sluggish economy. Chairman Greenspan's situation is
difficult, too. Whatever he may think about what the Fed has
done already, he is highly sensitive to the political
environment and the weak state of public confidence.
                                                                                                       

   Mr. Greenspan is still concerned about inflation, too. At
the moment, economists generally look for the consumer price
index to continue rising at an annual rate of about 3% in
this year's first half and then to rise somewhat faster in
the second half as the recovery picks up speed. Bond traders
watch the economy anxiously, fearing that any acceleration of
growth will lead to higher inflation, higher interest rates
and, of course, lower bond prices.
                                                                                                       

   Bond traders and investors also are closely watching the
money supply. Most monetary measures grew slowly last year,
but their growth has accelerated in 1992. The Institute for
Research on the Economics of Taxation, which monitors money
closely, recently commented that "investors have become very
aware of the cause and effect relationship between rapid
money growth and inflation. Because of this sensitivity, any
efforts by the Fed to lower interest rates further would
probably backfire and result in higher market interest rates
as investors demand larger inflation premiums."
   So the forecast is that interest rates, prices and the
overall economy won't change very much this year. It's a dull
outlook, but the Bush administration might settle for it if
someone could guarantee it.