Trump Agrees
   To Give Lenders
   49% of Plaza Hotel
   ----
   By Mitchell Pacelle
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The $300 million first-mortgage on the property, held by
another Citicorp-led syndicate of 30 banks, most of them
foreign, will remain in place. But the lenders have agreed to
fix the interest rate at 5%. The loan, which will come due in
1995, currently carries a floating rate of one percentage
point above LIBOR, the London Interbank Offered Rate.
   Both Citicorp and Mr. Trump declined to comment on the
deal. Mr. Wilhelm says it has been approved by the lenders,
but isn't expected to be finalized for several weeks.
   Mr. Trump purchased the property in 1988 for $390 million,
and has poured more than $100 million into upgrading the
facility. Real estate experts have questioned whether the
property is worth the $600 million that he owes on it.
   Last year, Mr. Trump negotiated a moratorium on the
interest payments on the second mortgage. In November, he
forced the banks into renegotiating the mortgages by refusing
to pay the $1.6 million interest due on the first mortgage.
Mr. Trump said that the hotel had sufficient cash reserves to
make the payment.
   Last year, the hotel showed an operating profit of $17.6
million, according to Mr. Wilhelm, enough to pay the roughly
$16 million in debt service costs. Mr. Trump has since made
the November, December, and January interest payments, and
people familiar with the hotel's finances say that it
currently has plenty of cash on hand. Mr. Wilhelm says he
expects the property to generate a $20 million operating
profit this year, more than enough to cover the $15 million
in debt payments due under the pending deal.
   The agreement coincides with Mr. Trump's signing off last
week on a broad restructuring of his debt-laden empire.
Citibank, the Citicorp unit, is set to take over the Trump
Shuttle, all proceeds from sales of the Trump Palace
condominiums in New York, and several other assets. In
addition, Bankers Trust New York and Chemical Banking Corp.
are set to take over Mr. Trump's 50% interest in the Grand
Hyatt Hotel.