Autos:
   Car Prices Start Turning Around as Firms Cut Rebates
   ----
   By Krystal Miller
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Ford Motor Co. and General Motors Corp.'s Chevrolet
division are raising the price buyers pay for cars and trucks
by reducing, or eliminating outright, the rebates on several
models. Chevrolet, for example, recently removed the rebates
on its high volume Corsica and Beretta compact cars.
   Under the old program, which expired earlier this month,
buyers received $300 back on the Corsica and $500 back on the
Beretta. Ford, meanwhile, last week cut incentives on several
1992 models by as much as $500.
   Ford and Chevy are encouraged by the budding rebound in
car sales, which rose 15.5% in early February. And just as
demand is picking up, competitive pressure may be starting to
ease. The major Japanese car companies say they're likely to
raise prices in an effort to defuse U.S.-Japan trade
tensions.
   And the Bush administration, in an effort to help Detroit,
is headed toward raising tariffs on some Japanese vehicles --
including, perhaps, a tenfold boost in the duty on imported
minivans and Jeep-like vehicles. Such a move would push the
price of these models higher, and also give Detroit room to
boost the prices on its competing models.
   Not all buyer-incentive programs are being scaled back. In
fact, GM's Oldsmobile and Pontiac divisions have boosted
rebates on some models recently. Chrysler Corp. has also
sweetened incentives on certain cars and trucks. But the
moves by Ford and Chevrolet could signal the beginning of a
wider effort to rein in rebates.
   "Deals are very good right now," David N. McCammon, Ford's
vice president of finance, said yesterday. "But if we have
the kind of {sales} growth that we anticipate during the
year, the deals won't be as good as they are now." Mr.
McCammon said Ford isn't contemplating boosting its base
prices. But he said Ford recently reduced its rebates to
about $850 a vehicle from an average of $1,165 on each car
and truck in last year's fourth quarter.
   For instance, buyers now get a $500 rebate on the Mercury
Grand Marquis and Ford Crown Victoria, compared with $1,000
under the old program. Ford is offering a $500 incentive on
the Ford Mustang, down from $750.
   Auto makers have been trying for several years to reduce
their dependency on incentive programs, with little success.
Ford, for example, tried to eliminate its direct-to-customer
rebates in December 1990. Instead of offering discounts to
consumers, Ford copied Japanese auto makers, which typically
offer discounts only to dealers.
   The dealers are then free to pass on all the money, or use
some of it to increase advertising, or keep some to boost
their own profits. But the strategy didn't work. Ford was
forced to resume customer incentives five months later
because of sluggish sales. "In a way, incentive programs are
like hard drugs," asserts Christopher Cedergren, an auto
analyst at AutoPacific Group Inc. in Santa Ana, Calif. "Once
you get on, it's hard to get off."
   But analysts say now is a good time for the Big Three to
try again, partly because they're under less pressure to hold
down prices as Japanese auto makers get set to boost their
prices. More importantly, an upturn in demand for new cars
and trucks is giving the auto makers confidence to begin
scaling back incentives.
   Also working in the Big Three's favor: GM, Ford and
Chrysler have relatively lean inventories after months of
depressed production. With production in line with demand,
auto makers won't be as compelled to slap big rebates on
vehicles to move them out of dealer showrooms.
   "GM, Ford and Chrysler are finding that it's more costly
to move products with incentives than to hold back
production," says Susan Jacobs, an auto analyst with Jacobs
Automotive in Little Falls, N.J. "In the past, production
plans exceeded demand."
   The auto makers are especially eager to cut incentive
programs as they become increasingly hungry for cash. GM,
Ford and Chrysler are attempting to conserve money, and one
sure way is to dole out less to car buyers.
   But already, dealers are starting to complain about the
lower rebates. Steve Lato, sales manager of Friendly
Chevrolet in Dallas, says Chevy's new incentive program will
probably send many consumers to other brands. "How do you
compete without rebates?" Mr. Lato asks. "If you're going to
compete in this industry, you've got to compete in all
areas."
   Mark Sweeney, a Pontiac and GMC dealer in Cincinnati,
agrees. He says that if incentives are scaled back further,
customers will stay away from showrooms, nipping in the bud
the recovery in new car sales. "If auto makers take
incentives off new cars, we'll have to sell more used cars,"
he says. "Without rebates, sales will slow down."
   Auto makers will be devising new incentive programs as the
current round expires over the next several months. That's
when buyers may see more widespread reductions in rebates.
   However, analysts say consumers shouldn't worry about an
abrupt end to the incentives. "Auto makers will make attempts
to cut rebates, but it will be a slow moving trend," says Mr.
Cedergren. "Incentives programs will be here for a long time
to come, but they will probably diminish in intensity."