Movies:
   Little Film Shifts Its Aim to Big Audience
   ----
   By Thomas R. King
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
But after research screenings on college campuses last
week indicated that younger moviegoers like the film too, the
marketing department at Universal Pictures has scrambled to
develop a new campaign that takes advantage of the movie's
broader appeal. And none too soon. This weekend the number of
screens showing the film will be expanded to 1,100 from 673.
   "Fried Green Tomatoes," what the movie industry calls "a
little picture," is about a spunky woman who fights racism
and sexism in Alabama in the 1930s, as told by an old woman
living in a nursing home. The producers hope the movie will
do great business this weekend and continue to play well
until Feb. 19, when Oscar nominations will be announced.
Their fondest dream is to win a best picture nomination and
then sail smoothly toward a box-office performance like that
of "Driving Miss Daisy," the 1989 "little picture" that won
an Oscar for best movie and sold about $107 million of
tickets domestically.
   That may be an impossible dream. Despite an extensive
marketing campaign, with sneak previews in major cities and
special screenings last month that included gift mini-crates
of real green tomatoes, the "buzz" on the film is only now
beginning to spread. And critics question whether "Fried
Green Tomatoes" can snag a best picture nomination. "Driving
Miss Daisy" received extraordinary reviews as opposed to
mildly favorable ones for "Fried Green Tomatoes."
   That hasn't deterred Universal, a unit of Matsushita
Electric Industrial Co.'s MCA division, which has worked
overtime to recraft its marketing strategy. Among the
changes: TV commercials that previously focused on Ms. Tandy
and Ms. Bates will show more of the film's younger actresses,
Mary Stuart Masterson and Mary-Louise Parker. Billboards and
print ads that featured cozy shots of the two lead actresses
are being replaced by equally cozy shots of all four stars. A
new headline in ads invites moviegoers to "Share `Tomatoes'
With a Friend."
   There will also be new TV spots featuring some of the
college women who saw the picture last week; they'll offer
rave testimonials. Since the recent research suggests that
even young men might be hooked by the film, a new commercial
emphasizing the film's murder mystery subplot has been
crafted; another features men giving positive assessments of
the movie. Some spots are also being shifted to shows with
younger audiences, such as "The Arsenio Hall Show" and Fox's
"Beverly Hills, 90210."
   The quick about-face is a clear indication of the
importance of demographic research in Hollywood -- and the
need to constantly retest even after a film opens. "Our
earlier research didn't really indicate that a young audience
was going to be there," says Norman Lear, chairman of Act III
Communications and one of the film's executive producers.
"But now we're going to feature those aspects of the drama
that are most interesting to young people." Universal has
also arranged to book the younger actresses on "Late Night
with David Letterman" and "The Dennis Miller Show."
   Film-marketing executives caution that even if Universal
wins over the fairly narrow woman college market, "Fried
Green Tomatoes" still has to compete with a crowded
marketplace of films targeting women. As its run expands
today, 20th Century Fox Film opens "Shining Through," a
big-budget drama that stars Michael Douglas and Melanie
Griffith as a secretary-turned-spy in World War II Germany.
Also opening in select cities is Columbia Pictures' "Hard
Promises," which stars Sissy Spacek. And "The Prince of
Tides" and "Father of the Bride," two holiday holdovers, are
still doing respectable business.
   Universal's internal screening reports show that a
majority of college students rated the film as either
"excellent" or "very good." Those two responses are what
studios refer to on evaluation forms as "the top two boxes,"
a favorable indicator for films that rely on word-of-mouth.
At a screening held at the University of Pittsburgh, 92% of
students attending said they would "definitely" recommend the
film to a friend.
   Many of the students named as their favorite scene one in
which Ms. Bates, driving a car, repeatedly smashes into
another vehicle that pulled into a parking spot she wanted.
(Students said they had already seen the segment in TV
commercials but laughed anyway.) They also liked a food fight
scene. And in an indication that some college women may be
able to drag their boyfriends along, a 19-year-old male
student at the University of Minnesota wrote: "Really thought
it was good for a tearjerking chick movie."
   Universal's distribution plan is somewhat similar to the
strategy used by Warner Bros., a unit of Time Warner Inc.,
for "Driving Miss Daisy." "Fried Green Tomatoes," which cost
a relatively low $11 million to make, opened in a handful of
theaters in select cities just before the end of the year.
That allowed it to qualify for this year's Oscars but was
also part of a studio tactic known as "platforming," in which
the number of screens increases weekly to build
word-of-mouth.
   Last weekend, playing on 673 screens, "Fried Green
Tomatoes" took in a healthy $5.2 million, for an impressive
per-screen average of $7,780, according to Daily Variety.
That was up from the previous weekend's take of $797,154 on
35 screens, and enough to make it the second highest grossing
film for the week. Even so, some rival studio executives say
they had expected the film to gross $6 million or more. This
weekend, the film's producers admit, will be the key. Mr.
Lear says the film is selling more tickets "day for day" than
"Driving Miss Daisy" did at this point in its run.
   Universal hasn't been filling Hollywood trade papers with
ads soliciting Oscar nominations. But a one-line letter Mr.
Lear sent to 5,000 Academy members prompted such a response
that the studio has added five special Academy screenings of
the movie. The one-line message: "If this note is responsible
for your seeing `Fried Green Tomatoes,' you'll owe me one]"