LEISURE  ARTS -- On Sports:
   Olympic Facts at Your Fingertips
   ----
   By Frederick C. Klein
And that's just the bobsled section, for heaven's sake.
   So while you're gearing up for the Winter Games that begin
next weekend in Albertville, France, put on your galoshes,
slosh down to your local bookstore and get a copy. Little,
Brown is the publisher, 763 pages is the length and $14.95 is
the price for the paperback edition. I'll be toting mine to
A'ville. I'd rather go without my mittens.
   The 1992 edition, which also encompasses the Summer Games,
arrived just as my 1988 edition was ready to fall apart.
That's how much I used it. It has gained 80 pages, or about a
pound, roughly as much as the '88 book gained over the 1984
first edition. Author Wallechinsky has a good thing going:
Every four years he taps out some updates and -- voila] -- a
new royalty-earner emerges.
   His dues, however, were paid when he put in seven-day
weeks for 2 1/2 years to produce the original volume, and
when he dialed up the '84 text on his computer to make
corrections and updates for '88 and found that the publisher
(not Little, Brown) had erased everything. "It was either
kill myself or change publishers," he recalls. "After some
thought, I chose the latter."
   If you already are a reference-book fan, you'll know who
Mr. Wallechinsky is. With his father, the late novelist
Irving Wallace (David changed his name back to its European
original), he wrote The People's Almanac, billed as "the
first reference book prepared to be read for pleasure." He,
his dad and sister, Amy Wallace, later produced The Book of
Lists, which included such gems as "15 Famous Events That
Happened in the Bathtub" and inspired the continuing
list-making craze.
   The 43-year-old Mr. Wallechinsky says his passion for
compilation began when he was a lad who could cuddle up for
hours with the Encyclopaedia Britannica. His interest in
things Olympic was kindled when his family attended the 1960
Summer Games in Rome.
   "I liked sports, and had this fascination for small,
out-of-the-way countries," he says. "The Olympics brought
those things together for me. I mean, there I saw actual,
living people from places like Liechtenstein, San Marino and
Mongolia."
   His attendance at various Games over the years engendered
an admiration that transcends the on-field doings. "The
Olympics are commercial for sure, and probably overblown, but
there's also something beautiful about them," he asserts.
"The large majority of athletes who participate have no
chance at medals, and know it. But they're still so glad to
be there that their joy is contagious. When the '84 Games
were awarded to Los Angeles, my home town, I knew I had to
write."
   The backbone of The Complete Book is its lists of the top
eight finishers in every event in every modern Olympiad
dating from the first, in Athens, in 1896. One might think
getting these results was the easy part of Mr. Wallechinsky's
research, but he says it was the hardest.
   "The Games of 1924 and after are well documented, but
records from before are spotty," he notes. "The times or
scores of some non-winners can't be found, nor can many first
names; as late 1948, the British still were listing their
athletes by last name and first initial. We Olympic
historians meet occasionally, and get into hot disputes over
whether J. Jones, a 1908 British marathoner, was John or
James."
   Accounts of the events, and background material on the
athletes, come mostly from contemporary newspaper accounts,
some of which Mr. Wallechinsky penetrated years of dust to
explore. The experience, he says, left him with new respect
for early-century newsmen: "Their turns of phrase sound
strange today, but many had a good nose for facts."
   And while he supports opening the Games fully to
professionals of any stripe, he expresses a wistfulness for
the time when Olympians were not the year-round,
round-the-clock jocks most are today. "The old-time
competitors tended to be older than the ones now, and had
lives outside of sports," he says. "What's there to write
about a 15-year-old gymnastics champion other than that she's
cute and has spent six hours in a gym every day since she was
four?" (What, indeed.)
   Things back then weren't as well organized as they are
now, and that, too, added spice to the races. For all-around
zaniness, Mr. Wallechinsky says, it's tough to beat the
marathon at the 1904 Olympics in St. Louis.
   Felix Carvajal, a competitor in that one, was a Cuban
mailman. His boat to the Games stopped in New Orleans, where
a crap game wiped out his savings for the trip. He hitchhiked
to St. Louis and made it to the starting line on time-wearing
street shoes, long pants, a long-sleeved shirt and a beret in
90-degree heat. Someone cut off his trousers at the knees,
and that helped him finish fourth.
   One runner was discovered unconscious by the roadside
halfway around the course. Another was chased through a
cornfield by dogs. The man who crossed the finish line first,
Fred Lorz of New York, quickly admitted he'd hitched a ride
for 11 miles. The declared winner, Thomas Hicks, wanted to
quit several times, but was kept going by mixtures of
strychnine sulfate, raw eggs and brandy.
   "I would rather have won this race than be president of
the United States," Hicks declared later. Which was a good
thing, because he was English.
   They don't make 'em like that anymore.