Commodities:
   Commodities
   Likely to Stay
   Stable in 1992
   ----
   By Elyse Tanouye
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
"Everyone loves a bull market," says William Byers,
director of futures research at Bear Stearns. "But stable
commodity prices are beneficial for the economy."
   Such commodities as oil and scrap steel that have a broad
impact on the economy are fairly weak and are expected to
continue to be so. Grains, with the exception of wheat, have
rallied strongly at times in the past year, but then they
fell back down again. Prices of other food commodities --
coffee, sugar, and cocoa -- are low and show little to no
sign of improving. Precious metals, which have both
industrial applications and are used as inflation indicators,
have been in the doldrums.
   The weak price trends in those commodities are reflected
in broader commodity indexes: The Commodity Research Bureau's
index of 21 futures prices last year ranged mostly between
205 (the lowest level since early 1987) and 220.
   Early this year, the CRB began climbing. Analysts said a
rise above 220 would have indicated the start of a recovery
in commodity prices, and piercing 223 would have sent strong
inflation warning signals. But the rally fizzled well before
reaching those critical levels: It peaked around 215 last
month, and fell back. Friday, the CRB ended at 209.58, up
0.79 point.
   The Goldman Sachs commodity index, which is heavily
weighted toward energy prices, also rallied early in the year
but faltered last month. The index sank to its 1991 low of
174.427 on Dec. 30, then rallied 8.5% to 189.28 on Feb. 10.
The index has since slipped with sliding oil prices.
   Economists say they could have predicted that commodity
prices weren't going anywhere soon. Anirvan Banerji, research
economist at the Center for International Business Cycle
Research at Columbia University, has studied the behavior of
commodity prices in previous recessions and found current
trends are consistent with historic patterns.
   Severe recessions, such as those in the mid-1970s and
early 1980s, have tended to be followed by a year of strong
recovery, he says. Commodity prices during the period
immediately after the recession's end have tended to rise
sharply and led the recoveries by about three months. Mild
recessions, such as during the early and late 1960s, have
tended to be followed by weak recoveries, where commodity
prices showed no early leadership, Mr. Banerji says.
   In severe recessions, he explains, prices and interest
rates are beaten down to the point where they are attractive
to buyers. Prices are also coming off a low base, so
recoveries appear much stronger. In mild recessions, prices
and interest rates don't fall as far so demand isn't
stimulated as much, he says.
   Because the recession last year was shallow, he says, a
weak recovery and stable commodity prices could be expected
this year. Also damping commodity price movement is the
slowdown in Japanese and German economies, he adds.
   But the outlook for stable commodity prices is good for
the economy, Mr. Banerji adds. The longer inflation stays
under control, the more sustainable an expansion will be, in
part because low inflation allows interest rates to remain
low, he says. There is "an amazingly strong" relationship
between the length of an expansion and the length of time it
takes for prime rates to begin moving up after an expansion
begins, he says, and one of the factors that moves prime
rates higher is inflation.
   John Murphy, president of JJM Technical Advisors in
Oradell, N.J., says commodities have been in a bear market
since 1988 but showed signs of stabilizing last year.
Commodity prices may be in the early process of leveling off,
he says, but it is too early in the business cycle for prices
to move up significantly.
   Prices may spend the next year or so simply moving
sideways, he says. As a result, inflation fears will be
tempered, he says, which will support the bond and stocks
markets.
   Low inflation will give the Federal Reserve more room to
ease interest rates, he says. The Fed watches commodity
prices, particularly gold, for early signs of inflation, he
says. Gold tends to lead the CRB, and its weakness is one
reason Mr. Murphy isn't bullish on commodity prices overall.
   Two commodities, lumber and copper, however, have rallied
recently and hint at a recovery under way. But supply
concerns -- caused to some extent by logging restrictions to
save the spotted owl -- are helping push lumber prices
skyward, not just increased demand.
   And some analysts are skeptical that copper will hold onto
its price gains. Leanne Baker, an analyst at Salomon
Brothers, expects copper will decline to an average 95 cents
a pound this year from $1.05 last year. In a recent report,
she cites ample London Metal Exchange stocks, which are near
an eight-year high, and weakening demand caused by slowing
Japanese and German economies.
   Looking ahead to other commodity markets this week:
                                                                                                       

   Energy
                                                                                                       

   Market participants are expecting the first estimates of
OPEC production during the second half of February to see how
serious the group really is about reductions. Although the
agreed-upon cutbacks by the Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries aren't likely to take effect until March,
the psychological effects of the February estimates should
influence trading. Already, Petroleum Intelligence Weekly
estimates that OPEC's February output may fall 220,000
barrels a day from the January level. A drop of an additional
965,000 barrels is forecast for March.
   Yet some market sources said technical factors should help
keep at least a temporary floor under oil futures prices at
around $18.50 a barrel. Since OPEC ended its meeting on Feb.
15, the price of crude oil has declined about 78 cents a
barrel. Traders who had anticipated deeper output cuts by the
group of ministers than those announced have shown their
disappointment.
   Nevertheless, crude oil for April delivery ended trading
Friday at $18.68, down seven cents a barrel. Prices for
heating oil and natural gas are expected to weaken a bit
because of of warm weather and continuing high inventories.
However, heating oil contracts for March finished Friday at
51.52 cents a gallon, up 0.28 cent. Natural gas for April
delivery rose 1.5 cents per thousand cubic feet, to finish at
$1.171. Gasoline contracts for March fell to 55.50 cents a
gallon, down 0.78 cent.
                                                                                                       

   Livestock and Meats
                                                                                                       

   Traders hope a mild rally that closed out last week can
sustain itself in trading this week. The Agriculture
Department reported Friday that beef cattle prices averaged
72.70 cents a pound in February, up 3.80 cents from January.
   Meanwhile, hog prices were up four cents to an average of
about 40.40 cents a pound. This strength on the cash market
has supported futures prices. This week traders will be
watching indications of meatpackers' profit margins. Signs
that packers are able to sell processed meat for a profit
should exert upward pressure on futures prices.

   Precious Metals
                                                                                                       

   Because April gold and platinum prices stayed above
support levels last week, traders may now buy on dips in
price rather than sell on rallies, said Tom Griffo, metals
analyst at Cargill Investor Services.
   Traders may try to test higher prices in the metals this
week, he said. But that doesn't mean prices will go a lot
higher, he added, only that they probably won't go much
lower.
   Silver was a follower all week, Mr. Griffo said, and will
probably continue to be sluggish this week.
   On Friday, gold for April delivery ended at $354.10 an
ounce, down 90 cents. April platinum finished at $359.70 an
ounce, up 10 cents. March silver declined 0.30 cent an ounce
to $4.10; the actively traded May contract lost 0.50 cent to
finish at $4.135.