Telecommunications:
   Cable Giant TCI
   Agrees to Buy
   Teleport Stake
   ----
   By Mary Lu Carnevale
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Terms weren't disclosed.
   "It's an offensive move by cable companies that could
haunt the Baby Bells for years to come," said Jack Grubman, a
telecommunications analyst with PaineWebber Inc.
   Teleport operates private optical-fiber communications
networks in seven major U.S. metropolitan areas, carrying
phone traffic for long-distance companies, large businesses
and other organizations that send huge volumes of voice and
data messages. Teleport's networks primarily offer customers
a way to keep phone traffic flowing in the event of a phone
company outage.
   "This is clearly a statement that large cable companies
want to be in the telephone business," said Kenneth Leon, an
analyst with Bear Stearns  Co. "It presents a real threat to
the local telephone franchise."
   Mr. Leon and others predicted the announcement would touch
off a bitter turf fight in Washington as the cable industry
seeks ways to enter the phone business and phone companies
try to win the freedom to provide video services over their
networks. The 1984 Cable Act tries to keep the giant
monopolies separate by banning cross ownership, but
technological advances are beginning to blur the
distinctions. The Teleport acquistion doesn't run afoul of
that act because the company isn't classified as a common
carrier.
   TCI, the cable giant based in Denver, and Atlanta-based
Cox have spearheaded testing technology that would enable
their cable-television networks to carry telephone calls.
Their purchase of Teleport would give both companies
much-needed expertise in leading-edge telecommunications
technology.
   TCI has already started down that road. It owns so-called
fiber-loop operations in Chicago, Dallas and Seattle and is
trying to buy Penn Access, a fiber-optic company in
Pittsburgh.
   Both TCI and Cox also have been testing cable technology
for carrying telephone calls. Last week, Cox demonstrated its
prowess with emerging pocket-phone technology by placing a
phone call from San Diego to Federal Communications
Commission Chairman Alfred Sikes in Washington through a
cable-television system. Cox was the first cable company to
get an FCC experimental license to test pocket phones, the
next generation of mobile-phone services.
   John Dillon, Cox's senior vice president and chief
financial officer, said the company is "actively considering
whether or not to exercise our option {to acquire control of
Teleport} early," although recommendations have yet to be
presented to the company's directors. Both the TCI and Cox
transactions will require state and federal regulatory
approvals, and Mr. Dillon cited a benefit in presenting
changes to regulators all at once.
   Mr. Dillon sought to play down the notion of competition
with phone companies. "Teleport isn't a direct competitor to
the phone companies," he said. "It has built its business on
not being the local phone company."
   Phone companies and analysts say the competitive threat
may be relatively small now, but it is certain to grow.
"Teleport has the ability to provide end-to-end service, no
mistake about it," said Ronald Stowe, head of Pacific Telesis
Group's Washington office and head of the Bells' coalition
that has been seeking to end restrictions on their
businesses. "It should make policy makers more willing to let
us into the cable business."
   "This just goes to show that the notion of competition is
becoming concrete," said Mr. Grubman. "One of the reasons
we're negative on the Bells as stocks is that the local loop
will be up for grabs over the next few years."
   Analysts figure that Teleport's annual revenues have grown
to $100 million or more, a tiny fraction of the Baby Bells'
$80 billion-a-year business. Teleport is the largest U.S.
carrier offering customers a network that bypasses the local
phone company; with new cable owners, it could grow much
faster.
   That's because competing financial-services companies are
certain to feel more comfortable using Teleport services once
Merrill Lynch is out of the picture. Also, the cable
companies, which unlike Merrill Lynch don't view the phone
companies as major customers, won't feel any compunctions
about stepping on Baby Bell toes.
   The significance of the transaction could be tested this
spring when Illinois regulators are expected to rule on
Teleport's application for permission to offer more services
to Chicago customers. In December, Teleport asked the
Illinois Commerce Commission to allow it to interconnect with
Illinois Bell, the local phone subsidiary of Ameritech Corp.
   Teleport plans to resell Illinois Bell services and to
provide switched services, competing with the phone company
for Centrex customers. To that end, Teleport announced a $1
million project to build a central switching office in
downtown Chicago. Teleport has such a switching office in New
York.
   Phone companies are hoping that nascent competition will
spur regulators to lift decades -- old restrictions on
pricing, services and lines of business. "This is indicative
of increasing competition in telecommunications," said an
Ameritech spokesman. "We have seen it for some time, and
regulators are now beginning to recognize it, too."