Labor Letter:
   A Special News Report on People
   And Their Jobs in Offices,
   Fields and Factories
   ----
   By Cathy Trost
Pacific Bell, which recently lost some mentors because
they took early retirement offers, is reassessing the
program; its current "class" has 71 mentors with proteges.
ATT, which hasn't had a program for several years, says
"informal mentoring is more effective." But IBM has expanded
its program to "insure that women, minorities and the
disabled are helped to achieve."
   Formal mentoring is giving way to "less forced, more
natural" ways to cultivate diversity, says Leroy Nunery,
former head of the National Black MBA Association.
                                                                                                       

   TIME VISE TIFF: Do people really work more now?
   Researchers challenge the notion that mounting work
demands are squeezing Americans for family- and leisure-time.
Economist Juliet Schor's contention that average annual work
time rose 138 hours between 1969 and 1989 "twists postwar
history and contravenes some key facts," argues Sar Levitan
of the George Washington University Center for Social Policy
Studies.
   He says the influx of women accounts for the rise in paid
work time, and he cites university research showing people
actually have gained leisure time. But Ms. Schor contends
that work hours even rose among men who were unemployed or
forced to work just part time. And she says the leisure data
is skewed because it compares a business cycle peak to a
recession.
                                                                                                       

   FEDS FAIL ON FLEXTIME: The nation's biggest employer gets
poor grades.
   The federal government hopes to be a model family-friendly
employer. But a survey by Federally Employed Women, an
advocacy group, shows that some agencies block employees from
getting flexible hours, compressed work weeks, part-time and
other jobs. Of 700 people surveyed, 60% say they don't have
access to flexible jobs; many say that getting such work
depends on bosses' whims.
   Management resistance is "the No. 1 challenge," says
Wendell Joice, who runs a government project to promote
working at home. Agriculture Department employees William
Wade and his wife, Dawn, trade off days working at home. As a
boss, he first nixed the idea but now says he achieves more
at home -- and sees his kids more.
   The government should beef up its work-and-family programs
to gain a competitive advantage in recruiting workers, says
the U.S. Merit Systems Protection Board.
                                                                                                       

   SEX HARASSMENT is not a common workplace problem, says a
survey of 1,026 working people by the Roper Organization. A
big majority said there was "no" or "not much" sex harassment
at work, with men and women answering mostly the same.
                                                                                                       


temporarily laid off most of the production workers at its
mine near Syracuse, N.Y., where road salt is produced.
Cargill blames low demand due to light winter weather.
                                                                                                       

   NO AIDS COVERAGE: A survey by William M. Mercer benefits
consultants shows that insurers for many big multinational
companies exclude AIDS-related illnesses from medical,
disability and life insurance policies for foreign-national
employees. Such exclusions are common in some foreign
countries. Some multinational companies negotiate coverage,
though.
                                                                                                       

   NOT BOUND FOR COLLEGE? Students ought to take a second
look at vocational school. A study by Ohio University
economist I.A. Ghazalah shows that vocational-school
graduates earned 20% to 55% more than high school graduates
in male-dominated fields and 50% to 90% in female-dominated
jobs.
                                                                                                       

   OLDER WORKERS are hit by corporate restructuring, say
advocates.
   Age discrimination is rising because of recession-related
layoffs and restructuring, according to the American
Association of Retired Persons. Massachusetts'
anti-discrimination commission sees a "significant" rise in
age complaints filed since the recession began, and predicts
a "tidal wave" of suits from cutbacks in defense industries.
   Fully 23% of charges filed with the Equal Employment
Opportunity Commission in 1990 were for age bias, up from 21%
in 1985. Companies insist they strive to be fair; Raytheon
Co. looked at seniority, skills and performance when cutting
340 jobs last week, and made an early retirement package
voluntary. It reports no recent rise in age-bias complaints.
The same goes for General Motors Corp.
   A federal district court jury found last week that
Westinghouse Corp. didn't discriminate on the basis of age in
1989 layoffs from its automation division.
                                                                                                       

   THE CHECKOFF: Vacation Bonus: Fulltime employees get
time-and-a-half pay while on vacation from Pride-In-Graphics,
a Chicago commercial printer, which wants employees to
"really enjoy" time off. . . . Lost Your Job? Lenox Hill
Hospital in New York is holding a free lecture Friday to
boost "morale and marketability" with tips on stress
reduction and job search techniques.