Growing Appetite
   For Attack Insects
   Spawns an Industry
   ---
   Greenhouse Gardeners Spur
   Sales of Natural Enemies
   For the War on Parasites
   ----
   By Bob Hagerty
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Bunting's brochure describes how the anthocorids operate:
"Both the adults and the nymphs feed by inserting their
proboscis-like mouthparts into the prey and sucking out the
body juices." Not just one or two helpings, either: Bunting
promises that its bugs will drain as many as 15 thrips a day.
The predators also snack on aphids and spider mites. If
nothing else is around, they devour one another.
   But it's a bug-eat-bug business, and greenhouse farmers
can't be too fastidious about the thuggish habits of some of
their allies, known in the trade as "natural enemies" or
"beneficial insects."
   For a few dozen mite-size European and U.S. companies,
finding and breeding these natural enemies is becoming a
fast-growing business.
   Although greenhouse farmers began dabbling with natural
enemies in the 1930s, such pest control remained little more
than a curiosity for decades. After World War II, new
chemical pesticides proved so devastating that few farmers
bothered with any other weaponry. Then, in the 1960s and
1970s, some farmers began to doubt that it was healthy for
people who work in glasshouses to spray lots of chemicals
around.
   One of the doubters was Jan Pieter Koppert, a Dutch
greenhouse grower whose respiratory problems prompted him to
experiment with natural enemies for his own use in the late
1960s. Soon he was selling killer insects to his neighbors.
Now Koppert B.V., owned and managed by the late Mr. Koppert's
sons, exports brandname bugs as far afield as Australia and
California. In the past five years, the company's annual
sales have more than tripled to around 30 million guilders
($16.6 million). That, says export manager Cor-Jan van der
Elzen, makes Koppert "the main leader in the world" of
natural enemies. (The company also supplies bumble bees for
pollination work-along with bee food called BeeHappy.)
   Koppert and rival companies -- such as Bunting and Chr.
Hansen's Bio Systems AS of Denmark -- remain bullish on bugs.
Tough environmental rules in many countries are pressuring
farmers to use fewer chemical pesticides and making those
pesticides more expensive to develop. At the same time, some
consumers are clamoring for unsprayed fruit and vegetables.
   So far, most people aren't willing to pay the premium for
unsprayed produce. But Joop van Lenteren, an expert on
natural enemies at the Agricultural University in Wageningen,
the Netherlands, thinks the trend is toward fussier
consumers. "In Germany," he says, "they're even more keen on
clean food than we are here."
   To satisfy that demand, bug breeders scour the wilderness
for new predators and parasites. The trick is to track down
the most efficient killers. Frogs, for instance, may eat lots
of insects, but they can't be relied upon to go after any
particular pest. Certain types of mites, on the other hand,
zero right in on thrip larvae.
   So Koppert breeds mites and packs them into plastic
bottles marked Thripex. It advises cucumber growers to
sprinkle the mites over their plants like salt.
   Among other hired guns on the market are aphid midges,
lacewings, ladybird beetles, mealybug destroyers, gypsy moths
and onion maggots. The predatory snail (Rumina decollata)
stands ready to pounce on garden snails.
   Since no one can patent a snail or an insect, competition
can be fierce; new suppliers keep crawling out of the
woodwork. Two years ago, Biolab of Italy opened a
state-of-the-art bug plant near Cesena, partly financed by
government funds. Koppert is so wary of rivals that it
refuses to let visitors tour its labs or breeding plant. Mr.
van Lenteren says Russian scientists plied him with vodka,
unsuccessfully, to learn bug-production secrets.
   Even a few giant companies are getting involved. Germany's
BASF AG, for example, sells capsules full of ichneumon flies
to combat the infamous corn borer. Imperial Chemical
Industries PLC of Britain doesn't sell insects but offers
chemical pesticides designed for use alongside them.
   Rather than breeding bugs, big chemical and drug companies
generally are more interested in developing bacteria, fungi
and viruses to serve as "biopesticides." County Natwest
WoodMac, a British stockbroker, estimates that the world
market for biopesticides -- most of them based on a bacterium
called Bt, or Bacillus thuringiensis -- totals $120 million a
year, or 0.5% of the global market for agrochemicals. Natural
enemies constitute an even smaller business.
   Even Mr. van Lenteren, one of the world's leading
advocates of natural enemies and other types of biological
pest control, doesn't think they can render chemicals
obsolete.
   For now, natural enemies are unleashed mainly in
greenhouses. Outdoors, a bigger variety of pests and
unpredictable weather make it hard for warrior bugs to
perform reliably; most farmers stick to chemical weapons for
their field crops. Still, natural enemies are sometimes used
outdoors for strawberries, apples, cotton and corn.
   Mr. van Lenteren thinks more outdoor applications are
possible. He preaches using natural enemies along with
chemical pesticides in a way that minimizes the need for the
latter.
   Toward that end, he and his colleagues in Wageningen are
using government grants to study bug warfare.
   Remember Pavlov's dog? Meet van Lenteren's insect. When a
young woman wore a potent perfume in the lab one day, Mr. van
Lenteren's students were seized with an inspiration: Why not
teach parasitic wasps to respond to an artificial odor, such
as perfume? The students wafted various perfumes over the
wasps as they laid their eggs. Later the wasps associated
certain scents with egg-laying.
   "Now we know we can train them to many things -- to
shapes, to colors," marvels Mr. van Lenteren. Why bother?
Because, he says, insect breeders will be able to sell bugs
trained to search out a particular enemy more effectively.
Mr. van Lenteren says he's in negotiations to license the
technology to several companies.
   The professor also is teaming up with botanists to try to
make life easier for natural enemies. A case in point is
Encarsia formosa, a parasitic wasp used to counter the white
fly. "Encarsia formosa," Mr. van Lenteren admits, "is a
rather stupid animal in several respects." Peering through
their microscopes, entomologists noted that the wasp kept
stumbling into the minute hairs on cucumber leaves as it
looked for white-fly larvae. "It's like a drunken man on a
sidewalk with many lamp posts," Mr. van Lenteren explains.
   The obvious solution was to seek out a strain of cucumbers
with hairless leaves. But researchers found that Encarsia
formosa, when set loose on a hairless leaf, zipped around so
fast it was liable to pass over a juicy larva without even
noticing. Somehow, the wayward wasp had to be slowed down.
The answer: promote a type of cucumber with 50% less leaf
hair.
   With such discoveries, Mr. van Lenteren says, "we are
scoring in international journals."
   Suppliers boast about their lab feats, too. One of the hot
areas of research revolves around uses for nematodes.
   Bunting already is promoting its Nemasys brand of
nematodes as a scourge for sciarid flies and vine weevils.
Stored in a special gel, the nematodes come in convenient
packages of 50 million. James Finch, Bunting's marketing
manager, concedes it's difficult for customers to be sure of
the count in each pack. "They have to trust us," he says.