Corporate Focus:
   Renault's Image Improves, but Some Questions Remain
   ---
   With Profit on Rise, French Auto Maker
   Predicts Turnaround in the 1990s
   ----
   By Timothy Aeppel
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The car maker has received plenty of help over the years,
including a spell in the 1980s when it was hemorrhaging cash.
But it now turns a comfortable profit. Renault's pretax
profit for 1991, reported Thursday, was 4.1 billion French
francs ($723 million) -- up sharply from 1.7 billion francs
($300 million) in 1990.
   And the profit picture is just part of what Mr. Levy and
some analysts see as a bigger turnaround in the making. Over
the past five years, Renault has cut the number of hours it
spends building each car on its assembly lines, forged a
strategic link with Sweden's AB Volvo, introduced popular new
models and started trimming its bloated work force.
   Whether it will be enough to save one of France's proudest
industrial companies remains to be seen, but it has already
boosted the company's image. Industry experts have long
questioned whether Renault is capable of surviving in
Europe's increasingly competitive market. Shackled with aging
factories, hostile unions and a corporate structure that
defies easy changes, it seemed Renault might eventually
disappear or be forced to merge with France's other big car
maker, PSA Peugeot Citroen S.A.
   And yet, some now say its outlook is improving. "Renault
is looking a lot better these days, and I think it will be
one of the turnaround stories of the 1990s," says John
Lawson, auto analyst at Nomura Research Institute in London.
   Dagmar Bottenbruch, an analyst at Credit Suisse First
Boston, says the company has done particularly well building
market share and profitability outside its home market,
especially in Germany, where Renault is now the top-selling
imported make. She also points to some of the company's
innovations, such as its early introduction of a minivan in
Europe, as evidence of technical and marketing prowess. "The
company was never as bad as some people suggested," she says.
   The fight for survival in Europe's auto industry is just
beginning, though, and Renault will need all the help it can
get to come out a winner. Mr. Levy already saw to it that all
the Europeans got one major break. He was one of the
architects of an agreement between the European Community and
Japan that limits Japanese car exports to the EC until the
year 2000. The idea is to give Europeans time to restructure
to meet the challenge.
   "I'm confident that in the year 2000, most of us will be
ready to face the Japanese," says Mr. Levy, speaking in his
office overlooking the Seine at the company's Paris
headquarters. Mr. Levy, who is set to retire in May, says
that at least one of Europe's big car makers is likely to
disappear -- but he insists it won't be Renault.
   Mr. Levy says Japan's car makers would like to conquer the
European market in the 1990s the same way they rolled across
the U.S. in the 1980s but that Europeans are fighting back.
As for adapting Japanese methods in his own plants, he says
there's a clear limit to what can be done in Europe. "I can't
expect from my workers the same sort of devotion to the team
and the same sort of devotion to the company" as Japanese
companies get in their domestic factories, he says.
   Mr. Levy says the agreement with the EC doesn't apply to
Japanese auto makers' "transplant" factories now operating or
being built in Europe. However, he says there is an "unspoken
understanding" that Japanese sales won't take more than
one-third of any growth expected in the EC market during the
latter part of this decade. Meanwhile, he says, "the best
structural impediment we can build against the Japanese is to
create better and cheaper cars."
   Another of Mr. Levy's survival strategies is wrapped up in
the deal with Volvo. By taking minority shareholdings in each
other, the two car makers have set the stage for wide-ranging
cooperation that Mr. Levy says will drive down costs for
both. But so far, there have been few tangible results.
   Some critics complain that the two companies are too
different. Volvo, for instance, produces primarily luxury
cars, while Renault is a true mass producer. Both sides also
fret about the future. French officials balked, for instance,
when Volvo announced a joint venture to produce cars with
Mitsubishi Motors Corp. at an old Volvo factory in the
Netherlands. French fears were calmed only after Volvo
assured Renault the link wouldn't undermine their own
relationship. Mr. Levy says the Mitsubishi deal is even
helping Renault, by allowing them to see how a Japanese
company revamps an old plant. "This is closer to the sort of
problems we're dealing with," he says, "and now we can see
how they do it."
   Politics also gets in the way of the relationship. Rumors
that the French government is interested in privatizing
Renault have set off rumblings in Sweden, where the move is
seen as potentially diluting Volvo's stake in the company.
   Mr. Levy favors putting more of the company into private
hands but insists that no decision is imminent. Moreover, he
says any decision to sell more of Renault would be done in
close consultation with Volvo. "Whatever happens will happen
in full harmony with Volvo," he says.
   The man expected to succeed Mr. Levy, Louis Schweitzer,
also is doubtful that privatization will come soon. "Right
now, the stock market isn't strong enough to make such a move
attractive," says Mr. Schweitzer, who currently serves as
Renault's finance chief.
   From Renault's point of view, the biggest attraction of
privatization is the capital it could bring to the company
from outside investors. With development costs for new cars
running as high as $2 billion, most car companies like to
keep plenty of cash on hand.
   Not that privatization would necessarily help Renault's
balance sheet. If the government sold its own shares to the
public, this would put money into the French Treasury, not
the company. Mr. Levy also points out that privatization
might clash with Renault's "traditional image" among French
voters -- referring to the post-World War II decision to
nationalize much of French industry.
   Renault is an odd creation. Its top manager is appointed
by the French president, and decisions about company strategy
can spark tense political battles. The government's reach
even extends to the company's boardroom, which is split three
ways, with six representatives of workers, six from
management and six "wise men" appointed by the government.
Mr. Levy insists he has never received "one order" from the
government, "except the normal guidance that you'd expect
from your normal shareholder."
   Renault was a private company before World War II. But in
the wake of the warduring which the company's controlling
family was accused of cooperating with the Nazis -- it was
nationalized along with many other large French corporations.
This fit the socialist ideology of the era but set the stage
for many of today's problems.
   Even Renault's system for employee suggestions was
reshaped to fit socialist principles. Workers were invited to
submit ideas and share the profits that might result. But the
profits were distributed to all workers, not just those who
originated an idea. As a result, the number of suggestions
generated per worker at Renault factories is among the lowest
in the world for auto makers. "This is one of the things
we're now changing," says Mr. Levy.
   ---
                  Renault by the Numbers
                                                                                                       

                     The Fundamentals
                                                                                                       

                                         1991      1990
                                                                                                       

   SALES (Bil. of French francs)       166.00    163.60
   NET EARNINGS (Bil.)                   3.08      1.21
   PRETAX EARNINGS                       4.10      1.70
                                                                                                       

   MAJOR PRODUCTS LINES:
                                                                                                       

   Automobiles and trucks. In the U.S. it owns Mack Trucks.
                                                                                                       

   MAJOR COMPETITORS:
                                                                                                       

   In cars: Volkswagen, GM Europe, Ford of Europe, Fiat,
Peugeot. In trucks: Iveco, Daimler-Benz, Navistar and Paccar.
The company is negotiating with partners in Italy, France and
Germany.