Slowing Down:
   Super Tuesday Dawns
   On a Changed South
   As Torrid Growth Ebbs
   ---
   Jacksonville, Fla., Facing Lag
   In Navy and Service Jobs,
   Now Courts Technology
   ---
   An Obstacle: Weak Education
   ----
   By Martha Brannigan
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
These days, however, Mr. Anders, 26 years old, can be
found standing in a busy intersection here, holding a
hand-written cardboard sign: "Will Work For Food or Money.
Have Family and Babies." At a ramshackle mobile-home park
nearby, his girlfriend, her mother and his 22-month-old son
face the bum's rush unless $350 in overdue rent gets paid
fast.
   "Three years ago, jobs in Jacksonville were good," Mr.
Anders says. "Now, there ain't nothing."
   When presidential hopefuls stormed the South in March
1988, they found a region almost smug in its success. Atlanta
and Charlotte, N.C., had become major financial centers.
Florida was adding some 1,000 residents a day. Tennessee and
Kentucky boasted shiny new auto plants.
   The region's sales pitch was simple: If an employer was
looking for low taxes, low wages and low-cost production, the
South was waiting with open arms. As a result, job growth in
cities like Jacksonville measured about 4% a year through a
good part of the 1980s, almost twice the national average.
Agriculture and manufacturing gave way to banking and
insurance and a legion of service industries.
   Today, on the eve of another "Super Tuesday" of primaries,
the South's economy is decidedly changed. Workers are still
plentiful, but they are often unskilled and undereducated for
the kinds of jobs now emerging. Labor is still cheap, but not
as cheap as in aggressive competitors Mexico and Taiwan.
Population growth still exceeds the national average, but is
nowhere near the levels of the 1980s, a change that has left
the region's service industries running for cover. And the
South is just now trying to develop and attract the high-tech
industries that can generate exports.
   To complete the picture, plans to slash U.S. defense
spending are expected to mangle the many towns and businesses
that serve the South's sprawling military bases. In January,
Jacksonville watched the USS Forrestal, one of two aircraft
carriers based at the city's naval station, sail away for
good, taking its $92 million annual contribution to the
economy with it.
   The recession has certainly helped take the edge from the
region's dizzying growth and optimism. But even when it is a
memory, Southerners awaiting a return to the heady days of
the past decade are likely to be in for a shock.
   The "galloping pace" of the 1980s was an aberration, a
one-time dash to catch up with the rest of the country, says
Robert Wenger, an economist with Southern Co., the big
electric utility holding company. Now, he says, "our growth
is expected to more closely match the nation."
   Jacksonville is a window into the South's changing
fortunes. Its big paper mills (whose fetid fumes are a
periodic annoyance and embarrassment), its three military
bases, including the giant Mayport Naval Station, and the
shanties that dot its predominantly black northwest
neighborhood are clear reminders that the city is still very
much a part of the old South. But the cluster of steel and
glass skyscrapers that now dominate downtown, combined with a
trendy waterfront shopping plaza, testify to its standing as
one of the rising stars of the new South.
   In the late 1970s, Jacksonville began the transformation
from a sleepy backwater into a thriving financial center. The
tactics were the same as those used by Atlanta, Nashville,
Tenn., and a dozen other cities: build a strong pro-business
image, hype the low costs and pour on the Southern charm.
   Building on a base of banks and insurance companies, the
city scored its first big success in 1983, when American
Telephone  Telegraph Co. opened its American Transtech
subsidiary here, a telemarketing operation that now employs
2,000 full-time and 3,000 part-time workers. Other
back-office services for companies like American Express Co.
and Merrill Lynch  Co. soon followed. The Mayo Clinic of
Rochester, Minn., built its first satellite operation in
Jacksonville in 1986.
   In 1990, in what seemed a fitting cap to a breakneck
decade, the U.S. headquarters of Chrysler Corp.-owned
Lamborghini opened in town.
   As with much of the Southeast, however, Jacksonville
received its comeuppance in commercial real estate. Wildly
overbuilt, downtown is now saddled with office vacancy rates
of 19%, a near-doubling since 1988. "A popular trend with
developers is they're just giving the dirt back to the
banks," says Arnold Tritt, executive director of the
Northeast Florida Builders Association. The unemployment rate
in Jacksonville in January was 7.8%, compared with 5.3% in
January 1987. New jobless claims in the city were up 13.8% in
January from a year earlier.
   The recession hasn't laid Jacksonville completely flat;
its diverse business base, along with the Navy, have
cushioned the blow. When the slump does end, job growth here
should measure about 2% annually through the year 2000, about
double the national rate, predicts WEFA Group, an economic
forecasting service.
   Good -- but not great. And certainly a far cry from the
growth that Jacksonville and the South had come to take for
granted. Business leaders and legislators are just now
recognizing that fundamental flaws in their economy and
culture will likely prevent a return to anything like the
boom times of the 1980s.
   At the top of the list is education. The masses of
well-educated workers from the Northeast and Midwest who
streamed into the South in the late 1970s and 1980s did more
than fuel the region's economy; they masked what teachers
here already knew: that the South's home-grown talent, to a
large extent, is unskilled. "Education is the weak suit of
the Southeast," says Bobbie McCracken, a spokeswoman at the
Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta.
   In 1990, Jacksonville's public-school students scored in
the 54th percentile nationally on a comprehensive test of
skills like reading, writing and math. That put roughly half
the nation behind Jacksonville, but the city's scores had
dropped three years in a row through 1990. And though
spending per student rose slowly through much of the 1980s,
it fell 5% this year, mainly because of state budget cuts.
   Meanwhile, jobs, driven by rapid changes in technology and
moves toward participatory management, are getting smarter.
The gap in the South between job requirements and workers'
skills is becoming painfully evident.
   At Vistakon Johnson  Johnson Vision Products Inc., a
maker of soft contact lenses based in Jacksonville, personnel
managers looking to fill production positions typically have
to scrutinize scores of applicants to find just a few who
measure up. At American Transtech, many applicants who meet
Florida's standard of literacy can't pass the company's
entry-level exam. "Doing telemarketing doesn't take a rocket
scientist," says Susan Datz Edelman, a spokeswoman for
Florida Community College at Jacksonville. "But a large
number of people can't do it."
   Even the region's reputation as a wellspring of low-cost
labor is losing some of its gloss. Average per-capita wages
and salaries in the South are now 88% of the national
average. That compares with 83% in 1970. Looking to the next
decade and beyond, cities like Jacksonville face increasing
competition from labor markets in Asia and Central America.
   Jacksonville and its neighbors also find themselves overly
dependent on a service economy, a sure bet in the 1980s but a
gamble in the 1990s. Growth itself was one of the biggest
industries in the South in the 1980s; Jacksonville alone
could count on about 23,000 new arrivals each year. With them
came an army of lawyers, brokers, mortgage bankers,
architects, real-estate agents and marketers.
   But population growth in the region -- particularly among
baby-boomers, who are less quick to pick up and move as they
grow older -- has fallen off significantly. Fallen, too, are
many of the newcomers who flocked to the region to take jobs,
thinking the South's service economy was all but
recession-proof.
   Already, merger mania in banking has cost Jacksonville and
much of the South thousands of jobs in what had long been
considered the safest of local industries. In 1990, First
Union Corp. in Charlotte, N.C., gobbled up Jacksonville's
Florida National Banks of Florida Inc., eliminating hundreds
of jobs.
   The insurance industry followed suit. "I was given to
believe I'd have a job as long as I didn't lie, cheat or
steal," says Frank Dorman, who worked in corporate
communications at Blue Cross/Blue Shield of Florida. In 1990,
however, his number came up when the company reorganized
operations. Now he does free-lance communications work.
Though he enjoys maneuvering his sailboat around
Jacksonville's coastal waters, he says he would pack his bags
in a heartbeat for Washington, D.C., or New York if he found
a good job.
   Businesses that have thrived on growth are reeling. Only
two years ago, "I was as busy as I could be, working day and
night," says Jay Devine, who owns a landscape architecture
company in Ponte Vedra Beach, an exclusive enclave just south
of Jacksonville. "Now, it's terrible." Business has fallen
off more than 40%.
   By betting heavily on its service economy, the South has
missed opportunities to build or attract industries like
machine tools and computers that now provide high-income jobs
and exports in some other regions. It wasn't until 1987 that
Jacksonville got its first electrical engineering school,
located at the University of North Florida. And plans are
just now in the works to build a research and development
park next to that college to lure technology-related
industries.
   Jacksonville and the South can't even depend on the Cold
War anymore. The city's three naval bases pump about $1.7
billion a year into the local economy, according to Navy
figures, and account for about 10% of employment. But first
the Forrestal left. And now, eight smaller ships that pour
$94 million a year into the area are set to leave or be
decommissioned by the end of 1992.
   A week ago, the city dispatched a contingent of worried
local leaders to Washington to plead to be spared further
cuts. They are also lobbying to get the Mayport Naval Station
upgraded to allow for berthing of nuclear-powered carriers.
   Acknowledging that it has to learn some new dance steps,
Jacksonville has mobilized local business leaders,
politicians and educators. Henry Luke, who chairs a
technology council for the Chamber of Commerce, believes
technology businesses will be lured to the region by the
engineering school and the planned RD park, combined with
the city's existing medical base (the Mayo Clinic is planning
to add a center for the study of Alzheimer's disease). "It's
in the beginning stages, and we'll develop a critical mass in
the 1990s," he says.
   One of the most prominent efforts to date is the $9.5
million Urban Resource Center at Florida Community College at
Jacksonville. It's focusing on matching job training to
specific employers' needs and educating the city's large pool
of unskilled residents.
   In a small white trailer outside Jefferson Smurfit Corp.'s
sprawling cardboard box factory in Jacksonville, a group of
six men in factory blues are delighting in the conversion of
fractions and decimals. Two other laborers are tapping
computer keyboards, brushing up on critical reasoning skills
aimed at improving their judgment on the factory floor.
   The class, conducted on company time, two hours a day
twice a week, is one of a series of workplace literacy
programs in local businesses across the city run by the Urban
Resource Center.
   Jefferson Smurfit workers were hired years before "for
brawn, not brains," says Charles Hynes, regional general
manager. But a new management approach now calls for workers
to help solve problems and to take responsibility instead of
just taking orders. The company plans eventually to install
new equipment that will raise efficiency. But not until
workers spruce up their skills. Otherwise, Mr. Hynes says,
"They won't know how to use the bells and whistles anyway."