TECHNOLOGY
   ----
   By John R. Wilke
EMPLOYEES who write love letters on office personal
computers, beware. It's getting easier for the boss to look
over your shoulder.
   Network-management programs now allow operators of most
office PC networks to peer into directories of files stored
on individual PCs, letting them read, rewrite and delete
files from PC hard disks. A new crop of these programs make
that far easier to do, and some will even allow managers to
monitor what's being typed on an employee's screen.
   One such program is Proxy, coming in May from Funk
Software of Cambridge, Mass. It lets managers see what's
being typed on the screens of as many as eight PCs at once.
Client Server Technologies' LANlord and programs from XTree,
Microcom and others will let managers seize control of PCs
and run them remotely. To protect privacy, Proxy signals
users that they're being monitored or seized, and it gives
each PC user the option of preventing unwanted spying.
   Software makers say such network "enforcer" programs are
unavoidable. "If you're on a network, the computer isn't
`personal' anymore; it becomes part of a broader society,"
says Russell Frye, president of Frye Computer Systems, which
makes a network software package. For better or worse, to
prevent viruses and ensure that computers are properly used,
he says that "networks need police."
                                                                                                       

   Looking for a House
   On a Computer Screen
                                                                                                       

   HOUSE-HUNTING is going high-tech. Technologies such as
artificial intelligence, digital color imaging and vast
databases are being combined in new ways to make finding a
home far less painful.
   One new approach has been taken by HomeView, Needham,
Mass., which is building an image database of as many as
30,000 homes for sale in the state, and has plans to enter 20
more states within a year. Prospective buyers browse through
a menu of choices, creating lists of homes based on criteria
such as price range, school proximity or even being near a
golf course. Then the computer gives a visual tour of the
properties, inside and out.
   With successive requests, the computer refines home
searches, generating a custom color catalog of homes and
notifying the listing brokers, who give a portion of their
commission to HomeView.
   Another innovation -- again, using existing technology in
new ways -- is offered by Inpho of Cambridge, Mass. For a
flat $5 charge, users can search a vast file of up-to-date
public records to find the sale date and price of homes in
their area. Simply punch in an address on your phone, and a
synthesized voice tells what your new neighbor actually paid
for that house. Previously, that data could be found only by
searching record books in county deed registries.
   The service, available in Massachusetts, is scheduled to
start in Rhode Island and Connecticut by summer and should
become more broadly available next year.
                                                                                                       

   Soon, the 64-Bit Chip
   Will Jog Huge Memories
                                                                                                       

   FOR NOW, 32-bit chips such as Digital Equipment's VAX or
Intel's 386 set the standard for handling quantities of data,
but 64-bit chips are coming soon.
   The 32-bit design lets the chip work with four billion
pieces of data in memory at the same time, like a phone
system that can reach four billion extensions at once. But
programmers working on ever more complex programs are running
out of room, fueling interest in 64-bit chips.
   Analysts say that by vastly increasing "directly
addressable memory," the 64-bit chip will make such
leading-edge applications as computer visualization and
artificial intelligence, which require huge amounts of
memory, easier to develop and run.
   That's because the 64-bit chip doesn't just double the
address space, but boosts it exponentially, reaching a huge
number of pieces of data-20 quintillion, or two followed by
19 zeroes. "I'll be dead before" anyone has the money for
that much memory, says Richard Sites, co-designer of
Digital's new 64-bit chip.
   Other 64-bit designs are on the way. MIPS Computer is
bringing out one this year, and International Business
Machines and others scramble to build their own.
   Marc Schulman, analyst for UBS Securities, says that each
time a transition to larger memory-address capability takes
place, "a new wave of growth is unleashed" in the industry.
                                                                                                       

   New Device Could Lock
   The Door on Hackers
                                                                                                       

   THE VIRUS hysteria of recent weeks has given new urgency
to the efforts of American Telephone  Telegraph, Northern
Telecom and other makers of office phone systems to protect
their products from unwanted intruders.
   The potential for damage is significant: Criminal hackers
could plant damaging computer viruses, or more commonly,
steal tens of thousands of dollars of phone service in a
weekend.
   Northern Telecom, the second-largest maker of phone
switches, has just tested a device that could help close the
door on hackersan electronic lock and key designed by
Gatekeeper of Dallas to protect key computer and office phone
lines.
   A researcher in Northern Telecom's Richardson, Texas, labs
used sophisticated security software to attempt to crack the
device, running two computers for five days. The unsuccessful
effort led him to conclude it would take a hacker working
nonstop 188 days to break the more than one trillion code
combinations. "Most hackers would give up," or the system's
manager would have discovered the attempt, he says.
   ---
   Corrections  Amplifications
                                                                                                       

   CHIPS based on MIPS Computer Systems Inc.'s 64-bit design
began to be shipped in volume earlier this year, and computer
systems based on the chip will be available this month.
Yesterday's edition incorrectly indicated that chips based on
MIPS's design weren't yet available.
   (WSJ March 24, 1992)