Law:
   FCC Overruled on `Indecent' Material Ban
   ----
   By Paul M. Barrett
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Justice Clarence Thomas didn't participate in the decision
because he was a member of the federal appeals court here
when it ruled in May that the FCC's 24-hour-a-day ban
violated the First Amendment's guarantee of free speech. The
appeals court instructed the FCC to determine an appropriate
late-night period when indecent material -- which the agency
defines as descriptions of sexual or excretory activities or
organs in "patently offensive" terms -- could be legally
broadcast. The agency is expected to seek public comment on
the matter in coming months.
   Peggy Charren of Action for Children's Television, which
challenged the FCC policy, argued that a round-the-clock ban
might have prevented broadcasting of controversial but
necessary programs, such as educational shows about AIDS.
   In 1978, the Supreme Court upheld an FCC ban on a George
Carlin comedy monologue entitled "Filthy Words" during
afternoon hours when children could hear it. For years after
that decision, the agency permitted broadcasting of such
material only during a so-called safe-harbor period from 10
p.m. to 6 a.m.
   Courts give speech defined as "indecent," as opposed to
"obscene," some protection under the First Amendment,
allowing only narrowly drawn regulation that serves a
"compelling" interest. In contrast, obscene expression --
which courts define as that which also appeals to a
"prurient" interest and lacks artistic, political or
scientific value -- doesn't receive any First Amendment
protection.
   In 1987, the FCC expanded its regulation of indecency,
pushing the safe harbor back to midnight. After the appeals
court ruled that the revised safe harbor was too limited,
Congress intervened, passing legislation that required a
24-hour-a-day ban. The FCC agreed to enforce the law but
didn't actually do so, pending review by the courts. In May,
the appeals court ruled that the blanket ban violated the
First Amendment. The administration argued in its
unsuccessful appeal to the Supreme Court that "anything less
than 24-hour-a-day enforcement of the prohibition . . . would
expose large numbers of children to patently offensive
depictions of sexual and excretory activity."
   FCC Chairman Alfred Sikes said he was disappointed by the
high court's action. Meantime, the agency will continue to
enforce a daytime ban on indecent material from 6 a.m. to 8
p.m. (Federal Communications Commission vs. Action for
Children's Television)
                                                                                                       

   Drug Forfeitures
                                                                                                       

   Separately, the Supreme Court agreed to decide whether
individuals who buy property with alleged illegal drug
proceeds may claim they were unaware of the money's source
and, therefore, keep the property.
   The case reflects the type of questions raised by the
increasingly aggressive efforts of federal, state and local
police to seize the assets of drug dealers, in addition to
prosecuting them. The dispute the justices agreed to hear
arose from the federal government's attempt to seize a New
Jersey woman's house and the lot on which it was built. The
government contended in a civil forfeiture lawsuit that the
woman bought the property with $200,000 provided to her by an
indicted drug trafficker.
   Congress passed a number of expansive forfeiture laws in
the 1980s making it easier for officials to file such civil
actions in tandem with criminal prosecutions. Generally,
individuals may defend themselves against forfeiture suits by
contending they are "innocent" owners of property that the
government claims was derived from criminal activity. But in
this case, the Justice Department asserts that the recipient
of a gift of money that is criminal profit may not claim she
is an innocent owner of property bought with the money.
   The department argues that the criminal proceeds
technically become government property the instant the crime
is committed. According to this view, a defendant can't
shield the fruits of crime by giving them to an "innocent"
friend or relation. A federal appeals court in Philadelphia,
however, ruled that the property owner in this case could
assert the innocent-owner defense in a pending forfeiture
suit. The Justice Department appealed that decision. (U.S.
vs. A Parcel of Land)
                                                                                                       

   INS Detentions
                                                                                                       

   In another case, the Supreme Court agreed to consider a
challenge to the federal government's policy of detaining
some illegal immigrant children and placing them in
child-care facilities.
   Thousands of children attempt to enter the U.S. illegally
each year without their parents or other legally recognized
guardians. During deportation proceedings, the Immigration
and Naturalization Service generally detains these children.
But the federal appeals court in San Francisco ruled that the
INS policy violates detained children's constitutional "right
to be free from governmental detentions." The U.S. appealed
that decision. (Barr vs. Flores)