Advertising:
   ABC Retreats
   On Bid to Relax
   Ad Guidelines
   ----
   By Joanne Lipman
The new guidelines mark an embarrassing retreat. As
recently as September, one ABC executive declared that the
old rules were "fossils," hopelessly out of date given
today's sophisticated TV audiences. The other two major
networks, which have similar rules, were widely expected to
follow in their rival's footsteps. The three networks
establish their own rules regulating what advertisers can and
cannot do in ads.
   In reversing course, ABC has retained quaint restrictions
-- beer ads, for example, can't show people actually drinking
beer -- that seem out of step at a time when network
programming is rife with drinking, drug-abuse and sexual
escapades.
   "Restrictions are good if they make sense," says Martin
Puris, chief executive officer of ad agency Ammirati  Puris,
which creates ads for the likes of BMW and Arrow Shirt. "But
I'm watching 25 minutes of guys drinking and smoking -- and
my commercial can't have them doing either? What sense does
that make? It's hypocrisy."
   ABC had considered a proposal that would have allowed the
sound -- though not the sight -- of beer drinking in
commercials; now both remain forbidden fare. The network
deleted another proposal that would have permitted
commercials touting fortune-telling, astrology, card-game
lessons and craps courses for the first time. ABC also has
decided to stick with the so-called man-in-white rule, which
bans doctors or actors portraying them from endorsing
products. And it kept intact the rule against pill-popping.
   Admittedly, many of those restrictions do seem a bit,
well, petrified. The "man-in-white" rule curbing doctor
endorsements stems from flagrantly misleading ads in the
1950s. The regulation led to such peculiar spots as one
featuring "Marcus Welby, M.D." star Robert Young, telling
viewers in an ad for decaffeinated coffee that although he
wasn't a doctor, he had "played one on TV." The rule is
considered so hokey among advertisers that an Energizer Bunny
ad spoofs it in an ad starring a white-coated Chad Everett,
who had starred as a doctor in the 1970s series "Medical
Center."
   Some advertisers and drug industry groups, though, were
concerned that using a doctor in ads would lend an "undue
halo effect," the ABC spokeswoman says. Indeed, one popular
painkiller recently proposed a commercial featuring a doctor
-- and all three networks rejected it, industry executives
say. (ABC's updated guidelines will allow veterinarians to
appear in pet food ads for the first time.)
   But even some advertisers say ABC may have overdone it.
Hedda Neil, who heads up legal clearance for ad agency DDB
Needham, says ABC's rules "could have been loosened" and
"there wouldn't be any harm done." The fact that they
weren't, she figures, reflects the cautious tenor of the
times: "It's a more conservative society."
   Indeed, if anything ABC's updated guidelines tighten the
screws on advertisers. Reversing current rules, the network
now will refuse 900-number ads. The only exception: When the
public welfare is at stake, such as if the Red Cross wanted
to use a toll number to raise money for disaster relief.
   ABC also "significantly" tightened up research
requirements for advertisers that want to make competitive
claims, the network says. And for children's advertisers, it
not only bans 900-numbers but even prohibits toll-free
800-numbers, which had been permitted up until now.
   At a time when the networks are losing viewers to cable,
ABC also decided to stop accepting commercials from
advertiser-supported cable networks. It won't even air ads
for cable stations Lifetime, ESPN, and Arts  Entertainment,
each of which is part-owned by ABC's parent Capital
Cities/ABC. Says the ABC spokeswoman, "There's simply no
benefit for ABC to promote competing commercial-supported
services."
   Among advertisers, the most vehemently despised proposal
ABC made last year involved advertiser challenges. If a
sponsor had a beef about a competitor's ad, ABC said at the
time, it would have to try and work out its problems with the
competitor before turning to ABC. Advertisers called the
process unwieldy and impractical. That challenge procedure
still stands in the updated rules, but it has been modified
to speed up the process.
   The ABC spokeswoman played down the network's retreat from
its more aggressive stance of last fall, saying ABC at that
time was simply soliciting advertiser comments on potential
changes. Clearly, though, ABC's attempt to liberalize -- and
its hasty retreat -- have been carefully watched by the other
two major networks. Neither ended up following ABC's early
moves.
   At CBS, which in September said it already allowed
"tasteful pill-taking," a spokeswoman says the network "will
continue to constantly re-evaluate its guidelines." NBC will
be issuing its own updated guidelines in the next few months,
says Richard Gitter, vice president for advertising standards
and program compliance. "But there's nothing startling" about
any of them, he says.
   ---
   Imports' Images Sag
                                                                                                       

   The perceived quality of imported brands is sagging in the
aftermath of a national fit of Japan-bashing, according to
Princeton, N.J., market-research firm Total Research's
Equitrend survey.
   Videogame brand Nintendo sank in the ratings from No. 31
to No. 70, the biggest drop, with other slides for Sony (26th
to 38th), Toyota (99th to 112th) and Acura (96th to 103rd),
based on a recent consumer survey. European imports slid
precipitously, too: Mercedes sank from No. 3 to No. 7, and
BMW plummeted from No. 21 to No. 42. Volkswagen and Lexus
were the only two imports tested that increased their
quality-image scores.
   U.S. car brands, meanwhile, are riding a wave of positive
perceptions. Buick surged from No. 94 to No. 65 and Ford from
No. 117 to No. 88.
   The research firm asked 2,000 consumers in January and
February to rank 147 brands on a scale of 0 to 10, according
to "quality." "Quality, as defined by most consumers, is a
purely subjective thing," concedes senior vice president John
Morton. For most people, Mr. Morton says, "quality" connotes
"a combination of wholesomeness and technical
sophistication."
   ---
   Vodka Campaigns Roll
                                                                                                       

   Vodka's summer ad wars are starting.
   Absolut is unveiling its latest ad "spectacular," "Absolut
Amazement," a centerfold drawing of an Absolut bottle in a
vividly colored three-dimensional maze. Created by author and
self-proclaimed "mazemaster" David Anson Russo and TBWA
Advertising, New York, the interactive ad is set to appear in
the April issue of of the Atlantic Monthly. Absolut importer
Carillon Importers is a unit of Grand Metropolitan PLC.
   Volume sales of expensive vodka were down 2.2% last year,
but Absolut, the category's No. 1 brand, still squeaked out
2.6% growth. Stolichnaya, the No. 2 brand, imported by
Monsieur Henri Wines and marketed by PepsiCo, is fairing less
well, with sales down 10% nationally, according to M. Shanken
Communications's Impact Databank.
   So Stoli is doubling its estimated $4 million in spending
behind the "Stolar" series of print ads that Ross Roy Group
unit Calet, Hirsch  Spector, New York, created last year.
The company said it decided to back the campaign more heavily
because research showed 13% sales surges for the brand in
ad-blitz markets.
   ---
   Ad Notes. . . .
                                                                                                       

   ACCOUNTS: The Seattle office of Interpublic Group's
McCann-Erickson won the estimated $3.5 million account for
Aldus Corp.'s PageMaker software. Salt Lake City agency
Dahlin Smith White was the incumbent. . . . Toy maker
Fisher-Price, East Aurora, N.Y., assigned advertising for
Kiddicraft plastic toys, a new account, to New York agency
Waring  LaRosa.