U.S., Mexico,
   Venezuela Set
   Accord on Tuna
   ----
   By Bob Davis
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Prior to the moratorium accord, the countries agreed to
reduce the number of dolphins killed and to research new
techniques for tuna fishing that wouldn't ensnare dolphins.
"The moratorium can be lifted if a technique is found to
continue fishing while eliminating (dolphin) mortality," said
Jesus Seade, Mexico's ambassador to the GATT.
   Mr. Seade said he hoped the agreement, whose final details
still must be worked out, would reduce the opposition of
environmentalists to a new GATT treaty. "The main message
that should sink in (for environmentalists) is international
cooperation," said Mr. Seade, who said he expected other
nations would adopt the accord.
   U.S. environmentalists have been incensed over a GATT
ruling that disallowed a U.S. law barring imports of tuna
that are caught in nets that can also trap dolphins. Under
the law, the U.S. has prohibited imports of tuna from Mexico,
Venezuela and Vanuatu.
   Last year, Mexico objected to the GATT; a GATT
dispute-settlement panel found in Mexico's favor, saying that
the U.S. couldn't embargo a product simply because Mexico's
regulations didn't satisfy the U.S. The agreement, if
approved by Congress, would end the embargo, subject to
Mexico's and Venezuela's agreeing to the moratorium.
   Nevertheless, environmentalists attacked the proposed
pact, and congressional aides said the agreement would face a
tough time winning approval. Lawmakers must agree to change
the Marine Mammal Protection Act to take account of the
proposed moratorium.
   David Phillips, executive director of the Earth Island
Institute, a conservation group in San Francisco, said the
agreement represented a "bad approach," because it would lift
trade pressure that has led to sharp declines in dolphin
kills. He estimated that 50,000 dolphins were killed last
year through fishing -- about half the number in 1990. "The
current regulatory mechanism is resulting in significant
conservation of dolphins," he said.
   Mark Ritchie, a Minneapolis trade analyst who has
organized consumer and environmental groups against GATT,
called the dolphin controversy a "symbol." Even if the U.S.
and Mexico worked out that dispute, he said,
environmentalists would still oppose a new GATT agreement
because they fear GATT could override some U.S. laws barring
imports that don't comply with U.S. environmental standards.
GATT officials "have the power to judge and condemn U.S. law
from a very limited and undemocratic view," he said.