LEISURE & ARTS -- Bookshelf:
   Our Collective History
   ---
   By David Shribman
In a nation that so often has looked to the future rather
than the past, and that for so long seemed to contemplate its
destiny rather than its history, "Johnny Tremain" is an
unusual cultural specimen. For, as Michael Kammen shows us in
"Mystic Chords of Memory" (Knopf, 864 pages, $40), most
American popular history is depoliticized history.
   Over the years Americans have put their history through a
strainer, letting the controversy seep out, with the result
that Thomas Jefferson and Abraham Lincoln today seem like
starchy figures. "That is how we healed the wounds of
sectional animosity following the Civil War; and that is how
we selectively remember only those aspects of heroes' lives
that will render them acceptable to as many people as
possible," writes Mr. Kammen, a Cornell historian who has won
the Francis Parkman Prize and the Pulitzer for his work.
   In this massive and rigorous book, Mr. Kammen gives the
impression that he has consulted every speech, newspaper,
essay, poem, monograph, public record, novel, letter, sermon
and videotape produced since the Mayflower Compact. And he
certainly cites many of them, from the cultural musings of
Van Wyck Brooks and the reports of the National Trust for
Historic Preservation to the 1975 "Guide to Trivia
Collecting" and an ABC-TV advertisement that ran the day
Ronald Reagan was inaugurated for his second term.
   All this excavating in the mines of America's minds is
part of his effort to determine how this nation, described by
Swedish immigrants as "framtidslandet," or "the land of the
future," developed a view of the past, with rich traditions
that define the national character. In short: What is our
past, and why is it always with us?
   America's relationship with the past has been mostly a
matter of convenience. Jefferson himself warned that in the
U.S. "history becomes fable instead of fact," and John Adams
complained of the "very extraordinary and unaccountable
Inattention in our Countrymen to the History of their own
Country." More recently, all manner of experts, commissions,
politicians and College Board examiners have complained that
Americans struggle not to confuse William Henry Harrison and
Benjamin Harrison or Theodore Roosevelt and Franklin
Roosevelt.
   But Mr. Kammen isn't as troubled by this as some of his
brethren in the scholarly fraternity. He's not worried that
there are maybe six dozen people under the age of 18 who know
that the Missouri Compromise preceded the Dred Scott
decision. "History is not chronology for ordinary folk," he
says. "It involves a sense of memorable individuals, of
pivotal events that caused permanent alterations in a
community, of the texture of human relationships where
threads are broken and the fabric is subsequently
restitched."
   He may be right. In fact, if current trends continue, the
past may prosper in the future. In the past century,
Americans' interest in their past has grown, not diminished.
No longer could a bright young American woman like Edith
Wharton walk into her father's library and find few books by
American authors (or be forbidden to read the novels of a
relative, Herman Melville). Nor would the Archaeological
Institute of America focus its attention on classical
archaeology, all but ignoring important sites here in the New
World.
   Historical preservation, the Americana movement, the
growth of local and regional historical societies, the
staging of commemorative events -- all are testimony that
history is not dead in America.
   The transformation began in the period between 1870 and
1915, when suddenly American values and traditions took on an
appeal that for generations had been reserved for the culture
of the Old World. During the 1880s and 1890s, writes Mr.
Kammen, "increasing numbers of people turned to history as a
source of inspirational value," perhaps because history can
be verified. Even language reflected that: In the 1890s,
people made "pilgrimages" to sites of historical
significance.
   Today there are 4,000 historic preservation organizations
and patriotism is one of the nation's growth industries.
There's a danger in this, however -- the hazards of marketing
the past. This problem was on vivid display during the "son
et lumiere" centennial of the Statue of Liberty in 1986 and
the bicentennial of the U.S. Constitution in 1987. The U.S.,
Mr. Kammen worries, is moving "toward the commercial
management of public memory."
   In calling his examination of tradition in U.S. history
"Mystic Chords of Memory," Mr. Kammen himself is wagering on
Americans' knowledge of the past. The phrase is from the last
sentence of Lincoln's first inaugural address, which
concludes with these six words: "the better angels of our
nature." It is Lincoln's own testament to his belief in the
future and his sober view of the past.
   ---
   Mr. Shribman is a reporter in the Journal's Washington
bureau.