Freer Markerts
   Would Protect
   Northwest Salmon
   ----
   By Zach Willey
Over the years Congress has authorized hundreds of
hydropower, water supply, flood control, shipping, timber,
agriculture and fishing programs on the rivers of the
Northwest -- 30 major dams and reservoirs on the Columbia
River alone. Operated by more than a dozen federal agencies
without much input from markets, they have been major
destroyers of salmon and steelhead habitats.
   To be more salmon-friendly, water releases and reservoirs
should produce more hydro-electricity in the summer and fall,
when adult salmon need high water levels to swim upstream to
spawn, and less in the spring, when young salmon require a
quick journey to the sea.
   Fortunately, summer and fall is also when the demand for
power is greatest in the air-conditioned Western states. The
needs of the fish and the market meet. Unfortunately, the
needs of fish and 50 years of accumulated government-imposed
rules do not.
   The dams of the Northwest do not release water when the
salmon and most Western states need them to because their
electricity output's access to the Western electric power
grid is extremely limited. So they have no incentive to
reduce power reservoir levels and releases in the spring,
thereby making more water available for electricity
generation later in the year.
   A major source of the problem is the Western water rule,
"Use it or lose it." Holders of water rights are often not
allowed to resell their rights to others willing to buy them:
   -- Idaho's water law prohibits sales of diversion rights
to out-of-state users -- even to protect Idaho salmon.
   -- Washington state allows transfers, but only state
agencies can hold these rights.
   -- Oregon's law discourages water market transactions by
skimming portions of any sale into the state's accounts.
   -- California has a hard-line system featuring a
state-monopoly water bank, fixed prices, the selection by
government of "qualified" buyers and sellers -- and a deficit
this year of more than $35 million.
   If the law permitted water rights and power
contract-holders to resell their electricty through the
Western transmission grid into the inter-regional market,
many would do so -- especially in the peak summer and fall
seasons -- since the market price is at least double their
own cost. They, and the salmon, would profit.
   The House version of the energy bill authorizes the
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission to determine the
conditions and prices under which electric utilities and
other power line operators would be required to grant access
to the power grid. But the bill contains a special exemption
for the Columbia River transmission system -- the system most
crucial to the salmon.
   Similar changes could be made in the laws governing water
supplies. Excessive diversions of water for irrigation
farming and mining can make rivers uninhabitable for wild
salmon. If farmers were allowed to sell their water rights to
other users, many farmers would find it lucrative to reduce
water use, and sell their rights to downstream hydroelectric
producers instead. This "freed up" water could then remain in
the river -- and would, incidentally, produce a better
habitat for wild salmon and other fish and wildlife.
   Water law reforms by state legislatures are urgently
needed to remove barriers to water transactions, as are bills
in Congress to allow extra-project water sales of all federal
water contracts. Current bills attempting to do this for
California's Central Valley Project and Washington's Yakima
Project represent progress.
   Government subsidies to farmers, cattle-ranching and the
timber industry add to the salmon mortality rate. Subsidies
keep production of grain, beef and wood going on otherwise
unprofitable land. Wild salmon spawning grounds and migration
routes are degraded by the resulting runoff of silt and
agrichemicals, as well as by water temperature increases and
reduced river flows. There are already many reasons for the
abolition of farm subsidies, and the reform of the Taylor
Grazing Act and the Multiple Use-Sustained Yield forestry
law. Saving salmon and steelhead is one more.
   Improvements in salmon habitat will come to nothing,
however, if the salmon continue to be overfished. The
U.S.-Canada Pacific Salmon Treaty aspires to "prevent
overfishing and provide maximum production" of salmon from
Oregon to Alaska. The treaty does not, however, define or cap
salmon catch rights, undermining both sustained fishing and
international trading. Domestically, regulations under the
Magnuson Act try to limit the salmon catch by "time on the
water," and not by actual numbers of fish caught.
   The predicament of the salmon in the Pacific Northwest is
a difficult one for both environmentalists and
industrialists. The long history of government allocation of
natural resources -- with the original intent to promote
water and power use and the later intent to save species --
has to be considered outmoded at best. Government can solve
some problems, but the blanket exclusion of markets, the
present situation on the rivers of the Northwest, is not wise
policy.
   ---
   Mr. Willey is an economist at the Environmental Defense
Fund in Oakland, Calif.