More 1980s LBOs Rush to Go Public Again
   ----
   By George Anders
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Some bigger names may be waiting in the wings. Future
going-public candidates, according to investment bankers,
include American Standard Inc., part or all of Borg-Warner
Corp. and General Nutrition Cos.
   "Taking a former LBO company public is a hot topic these
days," says Stephen Waters, an investment banker at Morgan
Stanley. "We've got folks in touch with all the major buy-out
firms."
   Mark Solow, head of corporate finance at Chemical Banking
Corp., says: "We're starting to see a much larger number of
companies" considering going public "than we have in some
time." Other executives at Chemical say they are working on
going-public transactions for four large corporations that
haven't yet been announced.
   Last year Kohlberg Kravis Roberts  Co., the leading LBO
investment firm, took public four sizable companies that it
controls, including battery maker Duracell International Inc.
and glass company Owens-Illinois Inc.
   This year, with the stock market at record levels, the
potential profits from taking buy-out companies public look
even more compelling. If stock prices falter, however, the
flurry of IPOs could come to a quick halt. Currently, lower
interest rates are offering companies the chance to refinance
debt at much lower rates.
   Borg-Warner, a Chicago-based security and auto-parts
company, was taken private in 1986 by a buy-out group led by
Merrill Lynch  Co. Borg-Warner's chief executive officer,
Donald Trauscht, confirmed that Borg-Warner is considering an
initial public offering either of the entire business or of
its security division, which operates under the Wells Fargo
and Burns International names.
   "Sooner or later, Merrill Lynch has to have an exit
strategy to give returns to its investors," Mr. Trauscht
observed. While he said there isn't any firm timetable yet
for a Borg-Warner offering, "with the stock market at an
all-time high, sooner is better than later."
   American Standard, meanwhile, is likely to put
"significantly more equity on the balance sheet," predicts
Mariel Clemensen, head of junk-bond research at Shearson
Lehman Brothers Inc. The plumbing and air-conditioning
company was taken private in 1988 in a $3 billion buy-out led
by Kelso  Co.
   Fred Allardyce, American Standard's chief financial
officer, is coy about his intentions. "At some point, we may
be a publicly held company," Mr. Allardyce says. He says
there aren't any current plans to sell stock to the public;
he won't say when that might change.
   Investment bankers and analysts speculate that investment
bank Morgan Stanley, which controls a wide assortment of
industrial companies through its buy-out funds, may want to
take more of them public this year. Morgan Stanley already
has filed stock offerings for Coltec and Burlington; two
future candidates, analysts say, are Fort Howard Corp. and
Container Corp., both paper and packaging companies. A Morgan
Stanley spokeswoman declined to comment.
   Another private company that investment bankers consider
likely to go public is General Nutrition. Last October, it
filed plans to sell $100 million of stock, but postponed its
offering in December after the stock market stumbled briefly.
   Stocks currently are selling at an average 23 times
per-share earnings for the previous 12 months. Such lofty
valuations have been seen only twice before in the past 35
years -- for brief stretches in 1961 and 1987, according to
Goldman Sachs  Co. portfolio strategist Steven Einhorn.
   As a result, some investment bankers are even hoping that
long-time closely held companies might be coaxed into selling
stock to the public for the first time.
   But companies such as Cargill Inc., Hallmark Cards Inc.,
Mars Inc. and United Parcel Service of America Inc. say they
don't have any plans to sell stock to the public --
regardless of how high a valuation they might be able to
command in the current stock market.
   "We're probably the last company you should ask," says
Kent Nelson, chief executive of United Parcel. "We have a
rich tradition of being owned by our active employees. We've
never talked seriously about going public in my 32 years at
the company."
   Executives at Cargill Inc., the largest private company in
the U.S., with about $54 billion in annual sales, are even
more adamant about staying that way. Says Garland West, a
vice president at the Minneapolis-based trading company:
"We'll go public the week after snowballs form in hell."