Letters to the Editor:
   Racial Insensitivity in the Media
This is not only insulting to women and people of color,
it's also bad journalism. Diverse and antagonistic sources
are an essential aspect of competent reporting.
   Ted Koppel's, Jim Lehrer and Robert MacNeil's TV news
shows, along with other shows, by discriminating against
women and people of color -- in a subtle yet insidious manner
-- promote racist attitudes in society as a whole.
   I also cited a recent public-opinion poll by the National
Opinion Research Center at the University of Chicago that
documented widespread prejudice in the U.S.: 53% thought that
African-Americans are less intelligent than whites; 56%
believe them to be more violence-prone; 62% said they are
lazier; and 78% said they are more likely to "prefer to live
off welfare" and less likely to "prefer to be
self-supporting."
   Ms. Rabinowitz neglected to mention these statistics in
her column, which scoffed at the idea that mass media may
bear some responsibility for encouraging racial insensitivity
and prejudice.
   Martin A. Lee
   Fairness and Accuracy in Reporting
   New York
   ---
   Ms. Rabinowitz's fine piece grants the politically correct
unmerited courtesy, understating the spite that repeatedly
pierced the conference's benign facade.
   Friday's "moderator" slanted question time leftward.
Barbara Ransby, a panelist, asserted that she'd "received a
painful lesson in free speech in this country" when she ran
an ad in the New York Times during the Thomas-Hill
controversy. When at question time I said no one was
obligated to give her a forum and that "not everybody who
opposes you is against you because of your race," the
"moderator" cut me off: "I think the point's been made." So
much for diversity and free speech.
   David Horowitz {the former leftist editor of Ramparts, and
now an enemy of the left, who told the audience that "it is a
privilege to be born in America" and "blacks have more
opportunity here than anyplace on the globe, including black
Africa"} was hissed and told he ought to be ashamed. Ms.
Ransby not only called him a racist but compared his attempt
to establish his bona fides by mentioning his grandparents'
murder by Cossacks and his parents' Communist Party
membership with "Clarence Thomas pimping off sic his dead
grandparents." Mr. Horowitz finally walked out in disgust.
   At Saturday night's debate a student beside me said, in
the tone of uttering self-evident truth, that Kipling's
poetry was hate speech "because he was an imperialist
racist." Alas for Ms. Rabinowitz's closing optimism, the PC
are "true believers."
   John Attarian
   Economist
   Ann Arbor, Mich.