Calpers Set
   To Bankroll
   Developers
   ---
   Giant Pension Fund
   Commits $225 Million
   To Invest in Housing
   ----
   By James A. White
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The program comes amid a sharp slowdown in the California
housing market. While mortgages for home buyers remain
plentiful, lending to home builders has all but dried up as
savings and loans and commerical banks in California largely
have withdrawn from large-scale lending for housing
developments.
   Approval of the Calpers plan this week touched off a
modern-day California land rush among developers starved for
financing.
   "Do you know how many calls I have had on this?" said
James Pugash, a director of a Montgomery Securities-led
partnership that is among three money managers hired by
Calpers to run the loan program. "I can't see the door to my
office I have so many pink message slips."
   Pension funds have long invested in real estate, but
mostly in commercial projects. In the 1980s, some funds began
to buy apartment complexes, but investing in single-family
houses had been considered impractical because of the small
size of each deal. Calpers has sidestepped that problem by
planning to finance entire subdivisions ranging in value from
$10 million or $20 million.
   Calpers is the country's largest public employee pension
fund, giving it clout that often makes it the trend-setter
nationwide. It has been the most-active institutional
investor in complaining about executive salaries at companies
with below-average investment returns.
   But Calpers in the past has carefully avoided so-called
social investing programs designed to help the local economy,
even at the expense of investment returns. Like some other
public employee pension funds around the country, Calpers
provides home mortgages to public employees in its system; it
currently has $1 billion in home mortgage loans.
   Critics of social investing say it often leads to poor
investments. The Kansas state pension fund has lost more than
$100 million in ill-fated investments designed to boost local
companies and the state's economy.
   But with traditional lenders such as banks, thrifts and
insurance companies pulling back from housing, some experts
see pension funds as a logical alternative to finance the
construction of housing. They say that the huge California
housing market, like that in many other parts of the country,
is basically healthy, but that financing for construction has
been hurt by the problems centered in the overbuilt
commercial real estate market.
   "I don't know where the money is going to come from in
large quantities for the housing market if it doesn't come
from pension funds," said Blake Eagle, head of real estate
for Frank Russell Co., a leading consultant to public and
corporate pension funds. If the Calpers' experiment is a
success, "I would certainly expect to see more" pension funds
financing similar programs, he said.
   Gray Davis, California's state controller and a Calpers
trustee, said the housing program will provide "a happy
coincidence of above-market returns and a strong economic
stimulant" to the California economy. "There is a trememdous
demand for single-family housing, but there simply isn't
capital available to buy the land and finance the
construction," he said.
   Calpers said that if it judges its program a success after
six months, it will make more money available to housing
developers. Other California public pension funds for local
and county employees are weighing similar programs, which
could add several hundred million dollars more to the pot for
California housing developers.
   "The idea is to profit from the gap that seems to be there
because of the limited ability of banks and thrifts to
provide financing," said DeWitt Bowman, Calpers chief
investment officer.
   Mr. Bowman said the fund expects to earn between 14% and
22% annually over three to five years on its investment.
"This is not a subsidy program," he said.
   After a competition among about two dozen real-estate
firms seeking the business, Calpers hired three managers to
run the program -- units of Wells Fargo Bank and Prudential
Insurance Co. of America and California Housing Advisors, the
partnership organized by Montgomey Securities. Each of the
three managers will be given $75 million to invest and will
have to put up some additional capital of their own. That
would increase the size of the program beyond the $225
million Calpers investment.
   Mr. Pugash of California Housing Advisors said that he
expects to finance 90% to 100% of each development in which
the firm invests in order to have tight control over the
Calpers-backed projects. For example, all bills will be paid
by California Housing Advisors rather than by the developer.
"The builder will never see the money," he said.
   In addition to the initial $75 million in financing from
Calpers, Mr. Pugash said his firm will be allowed to borrow
an additional 60% to 70% of that amount from other
institutions for lending to developers. Banks and other
lenders will be willing to provide this money because the
deals will have the Calpers backing, he predicted.