REAL ESTATE
   ----
   By Jim Carlton
HERE'S a statistic that helps explain why consumers have
been gloomy: Home equity dropped an unprecedented 16.6% in
1990, the Federal Reserve Board reports, causing a decline in
average household net worth for only the second time since
World War II.
   The Fed won't have 1991 figures until late this year, but
many economists expect them to show that equity was flat or
rebounded only slightly.
   Home equity is such a huge part of family wealth that the
drop appears to be making consumers less willing to spend.
The impact may be greatest among older homeowners, many of
whom have relied on their homes to provide a nest egg for
retirement. With values falling as much as 30% in such areas
as the Northeast and California, a study by DRI/McGraw-Hill
says families planning for retirement are rebuilding their
assets by spending less and saving more -- putting another
drag on the economy.
   The 1990 fall in home equity, only the third such drop
since World War II, was four times as large as any previous
slide, according to an analysis of the Fed figures by the
U.S. League of Savings Institutions. And unlike prior
declines -- precipitated in 1982 by devaluation of the house
itself and in 1963 by a runup in mortgage debt -- the latest
fall stemmed from a drop in land values.
   A home's value reflects both the structure and the land.
With replacement costs for the house rising and ebbing over
time but the land a finite resource, many people came to
believe that housing values would always be supported by land
values, says Michael L. Wilson, the savings league's director
of research. But with land now perceived as overvalued in
many regions, Mr. Wilson says, "we could be in for a
prolonged period of downward -- or at least negligible --
adjustments in home prices."
   The Fed's numbers, by the way, run counter to a National
Association of Realtors study that says the national median
home price rose 2.6% in 1990. But the Realtors' numbers
aren't adjusted for inflation and, because they are based
only on transactions, don't necessarily reflect the value of
the nation's housing stock as a whole.
                                                                                                       

   Federal Projections Swell
   On Cost of Bank Bailouts
                                                                                                       

   AFTER grossly underestimating the cost of the
savings-and-loan bailout, the federal government is following
a similar pattern in its projections of how much it will take
to clean up the bank mess, also largely real-estate related.
   The White House Office of Management and Budget estimated
a year ago that the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.'s Bank
Insurance Fund would spend $9.73 billion in the current
fiscal year to bail out dead and dying banks whose portfolios
are laden with distressed real estate and loans. In a recent
report, the OMB more than tripled that estimate, to $32.96
billion.
   The agency, moreover, projects fiscal 1993 net spending on
failed bank resolutions by the fund at $38.05 billion,
bringing the two-year total to $71 billion, according to an
analysis of the administration's budget by Dennis J. Jacobe,
managing director of Financial Research Institute,
Washington, D.C., consultants.
   The spending figures, which assume sizable offsetting
income from sales of the seized banks' assets, indicate that
the insurance fund will be $18.3 billion in the hole by the
end of fiscal 1993. "They will be dealing with a lot more
assets and spending a lot more money than anyone had
thought," Mr. Jacobe says.
   According to an OMB statement, its changed estimates
"reflect not only Congress's failure to adopt the entire
administration {bank-}reform package but also general
weakness in the economy and problems specific to the
realestate sector that have reduced bank profits." FDIC
officials also say it's difficult to predict how much it will
cost to bail out banks because the industry is in flux.
                                                                                                       

   Hotel Industry Staggers
   Under Heavy Debt Load
                                                                                                       

   THE NATION'S overbuilt hotel industry is sliding deeper
into trouble, with the average price of hotel sales plunging
40% last year to $48,000 per room, a survey found.
   The number of hotel sales plunged by two-thirds last year
to 95, according to the survey, by HVS Financial Services,
Mineola, N.Y. And lenders reported that their nonperforming
hotel loans have jumped to 23% of total hotel loans from 20%
a year ago.
   "It's a very bleak situation," says Roger S. Cline,
president of HVS Financial Services. Hotels are burdened by
both oversupply, a legacy of the '80s boom, and the
recession, which has cut into business travel. The occupancy
rate nationwide dropped to 62% last year from 65% in 1990 --
well below the 68% level that is considered the break-even
point.
   With room rates stagnating as a result, many hotels are
losing money, and those carrying heavy debt are struggling to
survive. Recent studies suggest up to 16% of the nation's
42,000 hotels will go under before supply returns to normal
over the next three to five years, says Donald W. Wise, a
hotel analyst for CB Commercial-Investment Banking Group.
                                                                                                       

   Odds and Ends
                                                                                                       

   SIGN of the times: Among the top 10 leasing transactions
in San Francisco last year was the U.S. Bankruptcy Court's
expansion into 44,670 square feet of downtown space, Grubb 
Ellis reports. . . . Southeast Asia tops the list of areas in
which investors are interested for golf-course development
over the next three years, according to a survey by Arthur
Andersen  Co. At the bottom of the rankings: the
Northeastern U.S.