LEISURE  ARTS -- Bookshelf:
   A Writer's Splendid `Failure'
   ----
   By Richard Locke
Even as a boy Orwell sensed that his literary ambitions
were tied up with power, anger and failure: "I knew I had a
facility with words and a power of facing unpleasant facts,
and I felt that this created a sort of private world in which
I could get my own back for my failure in everyday life."
This "power of facing unpleasant facts" drove him into a
public world where he could invert conventional standards:
"Failure seemed to me the only virtue. Every suspicion of
self-advancement, even to `succeed' in life to the extent of
making a few hundreds a year, seemed to me spiritually ugly,
a species of bullying." At 13 he got into Eton on a
scholarship but then loafed for five years and couldn't go to
Oxford. He joined the Imperial Police in Burma but grew to
hate the job, himself and the Empire, and quit after five
years.
   It was 1927. He was 24 and ready to take the plunge. He
lived like a bum at times, "down and out" in Paris and
London, tramped about England picking hops, did some
school-teaching and worked in a bookshop. He wrote articles
and reviews, published a memoir and three novels, but "where
I lacked a political purpose . . . I wrote lifeless books and
was betrayed into purple passages, sentences without meaning,
decorative adjectives and humbug generally." Then in 1936 he
wrote his nowclassic book on poverty in the industrial north
of England, "The Road to Wigan Pier," and "every line of
serious work that I have written since . . . has been
written, directly or indirectly, against totalitarianism and
for democratic socialism . . . What I have most wanted to do
. . . is to make political writing into an art." At this he
succeeded.
   His masterpiece, "Homage to Catalonia," was written in
white heat in six months after he returned -- wounded and on
the run from the Communists -- from fighting Fascists in the
Spanish Civil War. His report that the Communists had sold
out their revolutionary comrades and driven the Spanish
Republican government toward the right outraged the English
left and sealed Orwell's fate -- for the rest of his life he
would be a loner fighting simultaneously on two fronts, to
his right and left, a "Tory anarchist," a patriot who longed
for a "specifically English Socialist movement," a tireless
worker (130 articles and reviews in a year; 13 books in his
16-year career) until he died of tuberculosis at 46 in London
in 1950, five years after "Animal Farm" finally brought him
money and six months after "1984" made him an even greater
international celebrity.
   Orwell is an intrinsically contradictory, problematic
figure who has been appropriated as a "saint" or "hero" at
various times by both the right and the left and vilified for
his Victorian belief in "decency," "common sense" and
unsystematic "democratic socialism." But Orwell seems a
greater writer with every passing year. His range is
impressive: novels, essays, reviews, journalism,
autobiography, literary criticism, comments on popular
culture, sociology, politics. And his famous plain style
seems even more powerful (and complex in spite of itself) in
an age plagued both by faux-naive slogans and technocratic
jargon.
   Orwell's deliberate refusal of abstraction, of theory,
doctrine and systems of all kinds, is both his limitation and
his glory. Though his experience of his own body was often
miserable, his acute, often disgusted sensitivity to concrete
sensory detail is his guarantor of truth. He can be
sentimentally reductive and prejudiced -- denouncing "that
dreary tribe of high-minded women and sandal-wearers and
bearded fruit-juice drinkers who come flocking towards the
smell of `progress' like blue-bottles to a dead cat." But at
his best, his precise colloquial language embodies complex
truths that can only be expressed, defined and proven
contextually -- thereby resisting hypocrisy, co-optation,
distorting paraphrase and deadly abstraction. He turns common
sense into an uncommon act of courage. This biography
enlarges our understanding of this brave, cranky, suffering,
truthful soul.