What's News --
   World-Wide
White House spokesman Fitzwater acknowledged yesterday
that public reaction to the president's economic program has
been "mixed."
   ---
   NASA scientists disclosed that the highest levels of
ozone-destroying chemicals ever measured have been detected
over the Northern Hemisphere, making it possible that an
ozone hole will develop this winter over parts of the U.S.,
Canada and Europe.
   ---
   The EPA is resisting a major step in the Bush
administration's deregulation drive. Agency officials are
preparing a strategy that could involve holding up rules the
White House wants. Among these rules are some sought by
utilities, auto makers and biotechnology firms.
   ---
   Protests mounted against the U.S. policy of forcing
Haitian refugees to return home, and the U.S. branch of
Amnesty International called upon Congress to take steps to
block the repatriation. Meanwhile, the first ship of
returning Haitians landed without incident in Port-au-Prince.
   ---
   Chinese leader Deng Xiaoping appeared on state television
for the first time in a year, signaling his continued control
over the government and indicating support for stepped-up
economic reform.
   ---
   A new genetic test can tell whether a woman is a "silent"
carrier of the so-called fragile X genetic defect that can
result in the bearing of mentally retarded children.
Researchers said the new procedure could make testing
pregnant women for the fragile X defect as common as
screening for Down's syndrome.
   ---
   Russian economic chief Gaidar said he doesn't expect
another big price increase in February or March like the one
that occurred in January and sees no danger signs of
hyperinflation ahead. But he cautioned that overall
production could drop as much as 20% in the coming months in
the former Soviet republic.
   ---
   Attorneys for Noriega described the ousted Panamanian
leader as a close U.S. ally in the war against drugs in Latin
America, and said he provided crucial information to federal
agents on money laundering activities. The defense opened its
case in the drug-trafficking trial in Miami following a
seven-week delay.
   ---
   Vietnamese boat people battled each other with spears and
axes in a Hong Kong detention center, leaving at least 17
dead and 117 injured. Police said about 300 boat people
clashed and that a hut was set ablaze, resulting in the
deaths.
   ---
   North Korea will probably ratify an accord within six
months that would allow international inspections of its
nuclear sites, the North Korean ambassador to the U.N. told
the Associated Press. He reportedly said the date of the
inspections would be decided by his government in
consultation with the International Atomic Energy Agency.
   ---
   Ten South African miners were killed and 16 injured in
rock falls triggered by a small earthquake at a gold mine
near Johannesburg, prompting union demands for an
investigation into safety at the mine. About 700 miners died
last year in accidents at mines in South Africa.
   ---
   Algerian leader Boudiaf pledged that the Muslim
fundamentalist party could operate freely if it refrains from
mixing religion with politics. "We have no intention of
questioning the legality of the Islamic Salvation Front," he
said in a television interview. The party's leaders and
supporters have been arrested in a two-week crackdown.
   ---
   Yugoslav leaders vowed they would enforce acceptance of a
U.N. peace plan even if it met resistance, and the hard-line
leader of a Serb enclave in Croatia voiced fears about a
military takeover. Croatian leader Tudjman said he believed
10,000 U.N. peacekeepers would be deployed in the republic,
and said he hoped to regain lost territory.
   ---
   Shamir warned the U.S. against trying to dictate Israeli
policy on Jewish settlements in occupied Arab land in
exchange for $10 billion in loan guarantees. Israel's prime
minister said he believes the U.S. will approve the
guarantees "since it has always given large-scale aid to
Israel."