Failed Marriage:
   GM Venture in Korea
   Nears End, Betraying
   Firm's Fond Hopes
   ---
   Buy-Out by Partner Daewoo
   Is Expected After Years
   Of Acrimonious Relations
   ---
   Producing Pontiac `Lemons'
   ----
   By Damon Darlin and Joseph B. White
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
But now, GM and Daewoo are in the midst of a bitter
divorce. A disenchanted GM is expected soon to sell Daewoo
Group its 50% stake in the Daewoo Motor venture.
   With the sale, GM will lose its major car-manufacturing
base in the burgeoning Asian car market, and another slice of
its corporate ambitions. Chairman Robert C. Stempel just
spent several days in Tokyo declaring GM's determination to
be a world-wide competitor. Throwing in the towel in Korea is
an inauspicious way to advance that cause. A GM spokesman in
Detroit declines to comment on any pending sale, saying only,
"Our relationship at this point hasn't changed." (GM
announced plans yesterday to build pickup trucks in China,
but that venture will be aimed at the Chinese market and
won't reach its full capacity until 1998.
   GM, stumbling toward a second straight year of voluminous
red ink, had little choice but to cut its losses in Korea. As
things turned out, the LeMans and the Korean factory that
build it are a nightmare. Even in Korea, where few people
could afford cars a decade ago, scornful consumers pronounce
the name LeMans "lemons." And a lemon is a lemon in Korea as
well as in the U.S.
   GM and Daewoo managers clash continually. Moreover, an
aroused labor force means "cheap" Korean labor has become
expensive. That is, when the laborers are working and not on
strike.
   The failure of the Daewoo-GM venture illustrates the
pitfalls of U.S. industry's rush in the past decade toward
"globalization." The term usually means hiring lowwage
workers in developing nations to build high-tech products
designed by Western engineers. U.S. companies from Apple
Computer Inc. to Zenith Electronics Corp. build their
products in places like Ireland, Mexico and Singapore. This
recipe for profit has become controversial as an
election-year recession focuses American attentions on the
apparent flight of U.S. manufacturing jobs to other
countries.
   In hindsight, GM and Daewoo executives acknowledge they
seriously underestimated the obstacles posed to their
three-continent car-making experiment by divergent cultures
and business aspirations, not to mention the different
languages spoken.
   GM and Daewoo managers disagreed over basic business
matters. Daewoo officials saw a $200 million expansion
financed 50-50 by the two partners as the key to reversing
the venture's declining market share. GM managers thought
Daewoo should sell some of its operations and focus on
building better cars, not more.
   Daewoo Group Chairman Kim WooChoong and his aides have
complained to U.S. officials that his American partners
treated him shabbily. Daewoo executives even passed word to
American Embassy officials in Seoul that Mr. Kim, who wrote a
collection of essays that sold well in Korea and sees himself
as the Lee Iacocca of his country, has felt snubbed by GM.
   GM executives, in turn, grouse that Daewoo executives
don't pay enough attention either to quality or to the labor
disputes that repeatedly halt production at the Inchon plant.
Daewoo's management, they say, simply didn't adjust to the
rapid emergence of democracy in South Korea.
   "When things changed, they {Daewoo} couldn't change with
the conditions," says an executive at a rival Korean car
maker. He adds that the two partners "never learned to walk
together before they ran together."
   Like many marriages, the one between GM and Daewoo began
on a spring day with high hopes and sweet talk. It was in
June 1984 that GM and Daewoo signed an agreement to invest
$100 million each in a factory that would produce a
subcompact based on GM's popular German-designed Opel Kadett.
For GM, the deal ended a long search for a manufacturing base
in Asia.
   GM executives were thinking mainly of profits back home.
GM doubted that a small car competitive with Japanese-made
subcompacts could be built profitably in the U.S. because of
labor costs.
   GM expected a lot from this marriage of German technology
and Korean sweat. Then-chairman Roger B. Smith told Korean
reporters that GM's North American operations would
eventually import 80,000 to 100,000 cars a year from Daewoo
Motor. At the time, not much mention was made of Korea's
then-puny domestic market, or the other Asian countries
outside Japan.
   In 1987, the first LeMans rolled off the line in Inchon.
The same year, South Korea -- and all the assumptions
underlying the Daewoo Motor venture -- suddenly changed.
   Korea lurched toward democracy, and workers began
demanding better wages. Bitter strikes repeatedly halted
LeMans production and contributed to a decline in quality. To
calm the labor troubles, Daewoo Motor more than doubled
workers' wages. Suddenly, it was cheaper to build Opels in
Germany than in Korea. (German wages were higher, but so was
German productivity.)
   Labor costs were just part of the problem. The LeMans had
persistent, and often serious, problems. Electrical systems
would go haywire, causing cars suddenly to lose power. Brakes
would sometimes fail after only a few thousand miles.
   The brake problem illustrates the unwieldiness of the
global enterprise. When Pontiac engineers in the U.S.
discovered that LeMans brakes were wearing out too fast, they
traced the problem to Germany. GM engineers in Germany then
had trouble translating their design changes so the Korean
suppliers and assemblers could follow. The upshot: It took
months for GM to outfit the LeMans with tougher brakes, which
finally were put on the 1990 model as a "brake feel
enhancement" package.
   But it was too late to save the badly tarnished image of
the LeMans. The car's sales in the U.S. plummeted to 34,700
vehicles in 1991, down 86% from the 1988 peak. Things aren't
much better in Korea. While Daewoo's Korean sales have grown
about 69% since 1987, market share has slipped to 12.3%, from
a high of 21.4% in 1987.
   Even the most single-minded management would find it
difficult to solve such fundamental problems. GM and Daewoo
couldn't even agree on where to start.
   Take finances. According to a recent prospectus issued by
the Korean company, Daewoo Motor has accumulated losses of
$56.3 million since 1986, including a loss of $1.3 million
last year. But Daewoo Motor itself says that when its results
are stated using Korean accounting methods (which recognize
profits from intra-company transactions), it earned about
$13.6 million last year.
   GM and Daewoo have done little better communicating with
one another on the factory floor. In 1989, GM sent one of its
manufacturing aces, Robert J. Stramy, to take the place of
the finance executives who had represented GM at Inchon. Mr.
Stramy threw himself into the challenge at Daewoo. Once, he
grabbed a grinder to show assembly-line workers how to remove
dents from the body of a car. He took engineers out for
drives to compare LeMans models with competitive cars. He
even gave lessons on how to tell a goodsounding door slam.
   But door slams and dents didn't interest Daewoo officials
as much as their dreams of expansion. In late 1988, before
Mr. Stramy's arrival, Mr. Kim had negotiated a deal to sell
7,000 Daewoo cars in Eastern Europe. GM executives were
enraged. Europe, they said, was Opel's territory. Daewoo
eventually agreed to limit the sale to 3,000 cars and never
to sell again in Opel land. (On Jan. 5, GM transferred Mr.
Stramy from Korea to its new pickup project in China.)
   Daewoo Motor subsequently developed a new sedan and asked
GM to sell it in the U.S. and other markets. GM said no. "We
felt trapped," says a Daewoo Motor manager. To Daewoo, the
poor sales of the LeMans were mainly the fault of GM
marketing.
   In the U.S., however, marketing managers at Pontiac were
confused. They wanted proof that Daewoo had solved the labor
and quality problems that had bedeviled the division's
efforts to launch the LeMans in the first place.
   Chairman Kim's ultimate answer to all these disagreements
was to try to circumvent his giant partner. He went to Suzuki
Motor Co., which is 4% owned by GM, for help in building a
mini-car. The overture produced an automobile called the Tico
that is being built not by Daewoo Motor but by Daewoo
Shipbuilding. Introduced in June, the car is meeting company
sales targets. Daewoo Heavy Industry, another affiliate, may
build Jeep-like vehicles.
   Last April, while Daewoo Motor's unionists at the Inchon
plant were on strike, Daewoo asked GM again to expand the
joint-venture car plant. The plan called for each company to
put in $100 million. GM refused on the grounds that
increasing quantity wouldn't help until Daewoo Motor could
improve its quality. GM even suggested that Daewoo sell its
truck operations and focus on passenger cars.
   The matter festered until Labor Day, when GM officials
delivered a blunt proposal: Either GM would buy out Daewoo,
or Daewoo would buy out GM. Chairman Kim surprised GM by
offering to do the latter.
   Now, after four months of talks, the two companies are
coming to terms. GM officials in Detroit say GM will sell its
interest in the car factory but probably continue to buy the
LeMans from Daewoo until 1994, when the current model is
scheduled to be replaced. GM then may license the planned
replacement car for production by Daewoo. Daewoo would
finance the bulk of design, plant tooling and production for
that car.
   But as in many divorces, both partners could wind up
losers. Daewoo Corp., the Daewoo Group subsidiary that owns
half of Daewoo Motor, gets most of its cash flow from
borrowings. It may have a hard time raising $100 million to
buy out GM, even if it agrees to pay the going Korean
corporate lending rate of 19%.
   GM, for its part, won't find it easy to reestablish a
car-making base in Korea.
   Most of the potential alternatives to Daewoo in Korea
appear to be spoken for. Hyundai Motor Co. is allied with
Mitsubishi Motors Corp. as its technical partner. Kia Motors
has Mazda Motor Corp. and Ford Motor Co. as investors.
SsangYong Motors, a maker of Jeep-like vehicles called
Korandos, talked last year to GM about buying V-8 engines,
but GM rebuffed the idea. SsangYong just signed an agreement
to build Daimler-Benz trucks in Korea, a deal it hopes will
lead to a passenger-car venture.
   The other Korean option for GM might be Samsung Group,
which is interested in building cars.
   GM could, of course, start fresh in Korea, as it is doing
with trucks in China. But that would be a big expense at a
time when the company is fighting the worst financial crunch
in its modern history. And it would take up to five years
before a new GM factory in Asia could begin building cars.
Meanwhile, the Japanese already are cranking up production
throughout Asia. And Ford is using its links to Japan's Mazda
and Korea's Kia to build its Asian assembly operations.
   "GM doesn't have a good image with Korean companies, and
it might be hard to find a partner in Korea," says Huh Pil
Ho, an auto analyst with Hanshin Research Institute. As for
Daewoo, he adds: "I am not so sure Daewoo Motor will be
around in the year 2000."