Airline Group
   Probes Alleged
   Pay for Favors
   ---
   IATA No. 2 Official Resigns;
   Auditor to Examine if He
   Got Improper Payments
   ----
   By Brian Coleman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Mr. Spry resigned last week from his post as IATA's
managing director, less than three months after his election
to the position.
   An IATA spokesman said the auditor's report and
recommendations for action should be made to the group's
executive committee before the end of the month. IATA's
executive committee, whose chairman is Air France President
Bernard Attali, is composed of 30 airline executives.
   The spokesman didn't say what actions might be taken
against Mr. Spry or within the organization itself if the
allegations prove true. "All our channels are open, but it
will depend on what the investigation comes up with," the
spokesman said.
   The allegations against Mr. Spry first emerged in a $3
million civil suit filed in the U.S. last November by Airline
Economics against its former president, Harold "Hap" Pareti.
Airline Economics has charged Mr. Pareti, a former president
of the failed People Express Airlines, with breaking his
contract by starting another firm shortly after his
departure.
   In a response to the suit, Mr. Pareti said he left Airline
Economics because it had misrepresented to him its financial
status -- he was planning to buy out the firm's two owners --
and because of his displeasure with payments made to Mr.
Spry.
   In the court case, Airline Economics didn't deny that it
paid Mr. Spry $4,000 on "several" occasions, but asserted
that any payments were for work not related to his IATA
duties and occurred before Mr. Pareti joined the consulting
firm in March 1990.
   Neither IATA nor Mr. Spry are involved directly in the
court case, and Mr. Spry hasn't been charged with any
illegality. Mr. Spry couldn't be reached for comment.
   IATA became aware of the allegations when details of the
civil suit between Mr. Pareti and Airline Economics were
published in the Jan. 6 issue of Travel Weekly, a U.S.
publication. Mr. Spry wasn't identified in the article,
although he is named in the court proceedings.
   IATA rules permit its officials to accept payment for
outside work, but stipulate that all such activity must first
be approved by the director general. The IATA spokesman said
Mr. Spry hadn't sought approval.
   On Jan. 8, Mr. Spry offered to resign. His offer was
accepted by the executive committee last Monday.
   In the meantime, IATA has appointed Ron Blake, the
association's treasurer and comptroller, to the post of
interim managing director. A permanent replacement for Mr.
Spry will be appointed after consultation between the
executive committee and IATA Director General-Designate
Pierre Jeanniot, former president and chief executive of Air
Canada, whose appointment won't take effect until mid-1992.
   Mr. Spry, 47 years old, began his career at KLM Royal
Dutch Airlines and Scandinavian Airlines System before moving
to IATA, where he spent 18 years. A highly regarded
economist, he rose to the position of senior director of
industry automation and financial services before his
appointment last October as managing director.