International:
   World Wire
   ----
   Compiled by Richard L. Holman
Japanese business executives believe their country resists
foreign influence, but they still consider their economy the
world's most competitive, a survey found.
   The poll, in which a total of 3,300 corporate officials in
36 rich nations were asked to rank their own countries,
concluded that Japanese business is "aware of the closed
nature of its society, national protectionism, discrimination
against foreigners and the need to restructure a rigid
political system." Only Finland was less open to outside
influence. Bias against foreigners was highest in
Switzerland, followed by Japan.
   Japanese executives rated their quality of life as low,
and only Turkey and Portugal got worse marks; rated best were
Switzerland, Austria and Ireland. Italian politicians got by
far the lowest marks, and Belgium, France and Japan were next
in calls for political restructuring.
   Japan rated tops, followed by Switzerland, in values that
boost competitiveness, such as hard work, tenacity and
loyalty. Japan also led and Germany was second in technology
strategy and in research. The poll was conducted by the
International Institute for Management Development and the
World Economic Forum.
                                                                                                       

   TAKING THE PULSE OF FRANCE
                                                                                                       

   Regional elections Sunday across France could cause
serious trouble for President Francois Mitterrand's
Socialist-led government. At stake is control of local
councils that hold sway over regional development decisions.
But the vote also will gauge the government's health, as
right-wing and other parties are gaining clout. If the
elections go badly for the Socialists, as expected, this will
reinforce their fear of losing control of Parliament next
year, and pressure the president to show he is in charge,
say, by firing Prime Minister Edith Cresson; both are
unpopular.
                                                                                                       

   CHINA TO ALLOW LAW FIRMS' ENTRY
                                                                                                       

   China said foreign law firms may set up offices in
Shanghai and other cities. Beijing, seeking more expertise in
foreign investment contracts and trade accords, hopes to
attract securities, real estate and finance specialists.
Until now, foreign law firms could be consulted only for
general advice and couldn't provide formal legal opinions,
except through third parties.
                                                                                                       

   GERMAN INDUSTRY SCALING BACK
                                                                                                       

   German industry is increasingly scaling back domestic
operations. In a December survey of 500 firms, the Institute
for Economic Research in Munich found, 53% had counteracted
rising production costs or had plans to do so. These measures
were led by job cuts, made at 27% of the companies and
planned at 8%. Twenty percent had moved production abroad,
and 8% intended to do so. And 12% had boosted products'
foreign content, while 5% had such plans.
                                                                                                       

   CUBAN CIGARETTE PRICES SOAR
                                                                                                       

   Financially choked Cuba has raised unrationed cigarette
prices fivefold to about $10 a pack, outraging consumers.
Havana cited health and hard-currency reasons. In September,
Cuba rationed tobacco, citing problems at antiquated
factories and a shortage of spare parts, which had to be
bought with hard currency. But surplus cigarettes are
sometimes sold unrationed. Cuba gives priority to
cash-earning exports of Havana cigars.
                                                                                                       

   SCANDAL TAINTS JAPANESE OFFICIAL
                                                                                                       

   Transport Minister Keiwa Okuda acknowledged that his
former private secretary had been paid a salary by a company
in the scandal-tainted Sagawa Kyubin group while working at
Mr. Okuda's office in Kanazawa, Ishikawa prefecture.
   Mr. Okuda, who became transport chief in November,
previously denied in parliament any knowledge of whether the
former secretary, Toshio Nakanishi, had been paid by Hokuriku
Sagawa Kyubin Co. for about 2 1/2 years while in Mr. Okuda's
employ.
   Mr. Nakanishi, now a Kanazawa Municipal Assembly member,
worked in the Okuda office from February 1986 to April 1990;
in April 1988, he became a salaried employee of Hokuriku
Sagawa Kyubin.
   Prosecutors arrested three former executives of Tokyo
Sagawa Kyubin Co., one of the Sagawa Kyubin parcel-delivery
companies, and another businessman on Feb. 14 on suspicion of
financially damag ing the firm in a loan scandal. The scandal
allegedly involves a large number of politicians in the
ruling and opposition parties.
                                                                                                       

   POSTSCRIPTS . . .
                                                                                                       

   Mexico next month may propose devaluing the peso, lopping
off three zeros, in a three-step, three-year monetary
revision. Galloping inflation has complicated financial
calculations for the peso, now at 3,060 to the dollar. . . .
Malaysia banned, at least temporarily, television ads for
Washington apples, California grapes and U.S. potatoes,
saying it was checking the imports for harmful chemicals.