Commodities:
   Petroleum Futures Rise as Algerian Oil Minister
   Suggests an Early OPEC Meeting to Spur Prices
   ----
   By Allanna Sullivan
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Market action had been slow through most of yesterday.
However, remarks made by Algerian Oil Minister Nordine
Ait-Laoussine about the possibility that ministers of the
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries might meet
before the scheduled April 24 gathering sparked a run-up in
prices. "If prices stay where they are I think we'll have to
meet earlier . . . that's my own feeling," he said at a
conference sponsored by Petroleum Finance Co. in Washington.
   OPEC experts believe that Saudi Arabia will oppose any
move by OPEC ministers to meet early. "I don't think the
Saudis will sit down before April 24, and they are in a
position to get what they want," said Cyril Malak, analyst
for Energy Security Analysis Inc.
   Because Mr. Ait-Laoussine perceives the market to be weak,
his remarks should have been seen as bearish. However, the
prospect of another OPEC meeting in the near future was
considered bullish by oil men who are hopeful that such a
gathering might result in another cut in output. At a meeting
in Geneva last month, OPEC ministers agreed to reduce daily
production by more than one million barrels to about 23
million barrels. But the cuts were smaller than market
participants anticipated, and oil prices have weakened as a
result.
   Reports of continued political unrest in Venezuela
following a coup attempt last month also made traders
skittish. Armed forces there have been placed on alert
following several raids in the past three days on military
facilities, according to Dow Jones International Petroleum
Report. Venezuelan President Carlos Andres Perez has been
called on repeatedly to resign by several factions in recent
days.
   But underlying yesterday's move to firmer prices is
continued uneasiness among market participants who believe
that global oil supplies are abundant. In an event that
seemed to support that sentiment, at least symbolically,
Texaco Inc. began pumping oil from the so-called Neutral
Zone, a territory jointly held by Kuwait and Saudi Arabia.
Texaco has a concession agreement with Saudi Arabia to
operate the kingdom's share of production there.
   The refinery and three oil fields located in the zone were
decimated by Iraqi troops during last year's Persian Gulf
War. In a ceremony amid the rubble there, Texaco Chief
Executive Officer James Kinnear, Saudi Oil Minister Hisham
Nazer and Kuwaiti Oil Minister Humoud Al-Rquba gave the order
to resume output. Initial production from the Neutral Zone
isn't expected to exceed 40,000 barrels a day. Before the
war, output ran as high as 135,000 barrels daily.
   But debunking the notion of burgeoning inventories and
oversupply, Mr. Malak of Energy Security Analysis says that
oil supplies are tight in Asia and balanced in Europe. He
said that only North America is oversupplied with oil but
that excess inventory should be eliminated if OPEC members
live up to their commitment to shave one million barrels off
their total production this month.
   In a report that caught some traders by surprise,
statistics released by the American Petroleum Institute late
yesterday showed an unexpected increase in crude-oil
inventories in the U.S. last week. Crude stocks climbed by
5.64 million barrels to 339.8 million. Gasoline and
heating-oil inventories, however, declined. Refinery runs,
which indicate how much crude was run through U.S. refineries
during the period, slipped by 0.9 percentage point to 79.2%.
   In other commodity markets yesterday:
                                                                                                       

   GRAINS AND SOYBEANS: Prices of wheat futures contracts
dropped amid profit-taking and selling by farmers. Wheat
prices had rallied Monday after the U.S. government released
$200 million of food-buying loan guarantees to the former
Soviet republics. The Commonwealth of Independent States
quickly exhausted the allocation to finance purchases of U.S.
crops. The Agriculture Department approved the commonwealth's
bids for 585,000 metric tons of subsidized U.S. wheat. One
trader said wheat prices were also depressed somewhat by an
Agriculture Department decision against selling subsidized
U.S. wheat to India. Under its Export Enhancement Program,
the Agriculture Department compensates exporters that sell
discount-priced U.S. wheat to certain nations. Traders are
divided over whether the decision sets a precedent for the
administration to take similar action against China, which is
a major importer of U.S. crops.
                                                                                                       

   COFFEE: Futures prices rose. Coffee for March delivery
ended at 72.25 cents a pound, up 2.1 cents. The actively
traded May contract rose 1.45 cents to 72.95 cents a pound.
Analysts said futures prices were buoyed by a flurry of
short-covering by commodity funds in advance of a meeting of
Central American nations today in Costa Rica to discuss the
possibility of an international quota system. Traders cover
short positions, or bets the price will fall, by buying
offsetting contracts. "It was quite an interesting day
because for the first time {in weeks} it seemed like we had a
turnaround in the market," said Celeste Georgakis, senior
analyst at Cargill Investor Services. Although prices didn't
move above a major resistance level, Ms. Georgakis said, it
was encouraging that futures for May delivery managed to
close above 72 cents a pound. In the past, when coffee has
rallied, the advance has been stopped by producer selling at
the 72 cents level, Ms. Georgakis said. Judith Ganes, a
senior analyst at Merrill Lynch, warned, however, that coffee
futures could fall as quickly as they rose. If the Central
American nations fail to make any headway in persuading
holdout Brazil to discuss a quota system, futures prices will
likely retreat, Ms. Ganes said.
                                                                                                       

   SUGAR: Futures prices rose. Sugar for May delivery ended
at 8.27 cents a pound, up 0.23 cent. "Ninety percent of
{yesterday's} action in sugar was technical," said James
Steel, an analyst at Refco in New York. Mr. Steel added that
"a fair amount of short-covering by commodity funds and some
fresh buying by commission houses" helped to lift sugar
futures. A report that Thailand will have a record sugar crop
this year was disregarded by traders, Mr. Steel said, because
the news had been anticipated after Thailand said last week
it would have record sugar exports this year.