Commodities:
   Livestock Futures Get Lift From Spurt of Buying
   By Grocers as Prices Show Signs of Stabilizing
   ----
   By Jeffrey Taylor
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
"Tuesday was the first day of really stable wholesale beef
prices, and as soon as retailers saw that, they had to step
in and buy the market in an aggressive manner," said Charles
Levitt, livestock analyst for Shearson Lehman Brothers in
Chicago.
   Mr. Levitt predicted that this process of building up
depleted inventories will continue throughout the week and
into early next week, with the quantities of beef purchased
varying by region. Such sustained buying would be expected to
continue to exert upward pressure on wholesale beef prices.
   This, in turn, should encourage cattle feedlot operators
to hold out for higher prices on the live cash market. And
meat packers may be willing to pay the higher prices for live
cattle if retail demand for their processed products remains
strong. All this seems likely to mean continued strength in
futures prices.
   The price of the cattle contract for April delivery rose
0.97 cent yesterday, settling at 78.75 cents a pound.
   In trading yesterday at the Chicago Merc, pork futures
prices -- particularly those for pork-belly contracts -- got
substantial support from the strength in the cattle pit. The
May pork-belly contract climbed 1.10 cents to 35.80 cents a
pound, while the April hog contract was up 0.75 cent to 40.22
cents a pound.
   There was sentiment in pork futures pits that lower prices
for pork on the cash market this week and last week may
actually work to increase futures prices, said Dan Vaught,
livestock analyst for A.G. Edwards  Sons, St. Louis. It
could work like this: With cash prices lower, hog farmers may
slow down marketings, which would reduce the rate of hog
slaughter and exert upward pressure on futures prices.
   Traders are eagerly awaiting the increase in demand for
beef and pork that traditionally occurs as spring weather
arrives in April and May and people haul out barbecue grills.
Possibly banking on this demand, some big traders loaded up
on beef and pork futures for April delivery.
   In other commodity markets yesterday:
                                                                                                       

   GRAINS  SOYBEANS: Indications of increased foreign demand
for soybean oil and drought in South America helped push
soybean futures prices higher at the Chicago Board of Trade.
Pakistan, the leading importer of U.S. soybean oil, issued
its first order of the year -- for 15,000 metric tons, said
Richard Loewy, president of AgResource Co., Chicago. There
were rumors in the market that China also may be in the
market for U.S. oil. In addition, hot and dry weather
continues to plague the soybean growing regions of Brazil and
Argentina, which soon will begin their harvest. The price of
the soybean contract for May delivery climbed 9 1/2 cents to
$5.99 a bushel.
                                                                                                       

   ENERGY: Petroleum futures prices finished mixed yesterday
on the New York Mercantile Exchange. Generally, however, the
market exhibited unexpected strength by holding on to the
gains made Tuesday on reports that some OPEC members feel an
early meeting is warranted to reassess production levels. The
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries had planned to
meet in late April. Several market players said they thought
prices would fall yesterday, following Tuesday's run-up.
Instead, April crude oil lost only one cent a barrel to
finish at $18.63. May crude gained a penny, and outer months
were mixed. Petroleum products for April delivery moved
higher, with heating oil adding 0.5 cent a gallon to settle
at 51.42 cents and gasoline rising 0.55 cent a gallon to
59.61 cents. Tuesday's weekly report on U.S. petroleum
supplies from the American Petroleum Institute was seen as
neutral for crude and slightly positive for petroleum
products, especially heating oil.
                                                                                                       

   COCOA: Futures prices fell. Cocoa for March delivery ended
at $1,028 a ton, down $40. The actively traded May contract
finished at $1,058 a ton, down $36. There has been "talk
about the Ivory Coast coming to do some additional sales of
cocoa," said Sandra Kaul, an analyst at Shearson Lehman
Brothers. "But there has been no evidence of this." During
the fall, cocoa futures rallied as manufacturers built up
their stocks in anticipation of a deficit in the cocoa crop.
In the coming weeks, "the focus is going to be on how the
Ivory Coast's mid-crop turns out," said Harri Schwartz, an
analyst at Cargill Investor Services. "So much of this
`deficit' was built into the market. If it doesn't
materialize, you are going to have some disappointed cocoa
holders."
                                                                                                       

   COTTON: Futures prices fell. Cotton for March delivery
ended at 54 cents a pound, 1.05 cents lower. The actively
traded May contract fell 1.23 cents to 55.84 cents. "We were
due for a correction," said Sharon Johnson, a cotton
specialist at Cargill Investor Services in Atlanta. Ms.
Johnson said the gap between futures and the adjusted world
price for cotton had been unusually wide, suggesting either
that futures were too expensive or the world price was too
low. Since the outlook for cotton remains bearish, futures
sold off. Ms. Johnson thinks cotton for May delivery will
trade in a range of 55 cents to 57.50 cents during the next
couple of weeks.