International:
   Canceled Bonds
   Give New Meaning
   To Word `Recycling'
   ---
   Swiss Officials, FBI Contend
   Worthless Paper Utilized
   To Back Millions in Loans
   ----
   By Bob Hagerty and Margaret Studer
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
Swiss police officials say they have arrested a dozen
people so far and are still detaining half of them in an
investigation of widespread attempts to use the bonds
fraudulently as collateral for loans. In Florida, the U.S.
Federal Bureau of Investigation early last month arrested
Roman Abegg, a lawyer based in Olten, Switzerland, in
connection with the case. Mr. Abegg is being held in Florida
and has been indicted on charges of interstate transportation
of stolen securities. Heidi Huber, a lawyer in Mr. Abegg's
law office, says that he is "absolutely innocent."
   The investigation is far from over. "The number of
suspects is growing," says Urs Gloor, a district attorney in
Zurich. An FBI spokesman describes the inquiry as
"world-wide."
   Fraud with stolen or forged securities is common, says
Martin Buergisser, head of the Zurich police unit responsible
for white-collar crime. "This case is unusual because of its
size and the use of genuine securities," he says.
   Though the face value of the securities is large, losses
at banks fooled by the bonds have been relatively small so
far. The FBI says it knows of losses totaling $6.8 million at
financial institutions, $1 million of that in the U.S. and
the rest in Europe, mostly Switzerland. The FBI spokesman
won't name the institutions that were duped. Police in
Switzerland say many banks recognized the trick and turned
the bonds over to authorities; some banks simply gave the
bonds back to the people who presented them.
   The story dates to the 1970s, when hundreds of issues of
long-term bonds were redeemed early and presented to
Citicorp's Citibank in New York, acting as agent for the
issues, according to the FBI. Many of the bonds still haven't
reached the maturity date marked on them.
   Citibank refuses to discuss how the bonds might have gone
astray. "To the best of our knowledge," the bank said in late
January, "all the securities involved, at least to the extent
Citibank was involved, were canceled in accordance with
industry standards." A Citibank spokesman says such redeemed
bonds typically are perforated with small holes to denote
their invalidity, "and then they're supposed to be
destroyed."
   The FBI spokesman says it is investigating a defunct
company in Jersey City, N.J., that had a contract to destroy
the bonds. He says it's unclear where the bonds were before
people began trying to use them in mid-1991.
   Citibank alerted financial institutions in the U.S. and
Europe of the bond fraud in late January. Depository Trust
Co., a securities clearinghouse, issued a similiar warning in
December 1991, listing 41 different corporate bonds,
including three different issues of Shell Oil Co., a unit of
Royal Dutch/Shell Group, and four of Dow Chemical Corp.
   The paper chase reaches to such unlikely places as a small
bank in Pottsville, Pa. The FBI obtained a warrant for Mr.
Abegg's arrest in early February after he allegedly presented
$650,000 face amount of the bonds to the Pottsville bank in
an unsuccessful attempt to use them as collateral. The next
day he was arrested at a hotel in Boca Raton, Fla. At the
same time, the FBI seized about $47 million of canceled bonds
that investigators say had been mailed to him from
Switzerland.