Enterprise:
   Farmers Reap New Business With Crop of Inventions
   ---
   Tradition of Self-Sufficiency Inspires
   Many Problem-Solving Gadgets
   ----
   By Eugene Carlson
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
But the would-be inventor didn't give up. He built a
smaller version and spent $10,000 on patent and legal fees
over the next six years. The Open Up Power Twist Jar  Bottle
Opener, now battery-powered and fastened underneath a kitchen
cupboard, hit the retail market last fall. The $35 opener
"was a great product for us" in a year-end holiday catalogue,
says a spokeswoman for Hammacher Schlemmer  Co. in Chicago.
Dayton Hudson Corp., in Minneapolis, a retail chain, says it
plans to feature the gadget in coming advertisements.
   Invention is flourishing on the American farm, and farmers
are starting one business after another to exploit their
ideas. Like many inventors, they are discovering that their
own backyards can be the most fertile fields to plow for
product ideas; the person on the spot is often the first to
see the need and the way to meet it. And with the number of
farmers steadily dwindling, many are seeking new sidelines to
supplement their incomes.
   A flock of farm-bred prototypes, including Mr. Jones's jar
opener, went on display this month at the annual meeting of
the American Farm Bureau, the largest U.S. farm organization.
Farmers nationwide compete for the right to showcase their
gadgets at the convention.
   This year's winners ranged from a "feed buggy" -- devised
by a young Iowa hog farmer with an artificial hip to simplify
feeding livestock -- to a manual fork lift designed to
protect farmers against injury when they move newborn calves.
"Put the joy and fun back in calving" is the slogan of
Leonard Berghoefer of Hampton, Iowa, inventor of the Calf
Tote. Sales of the $375 patented device are just getting
under way.
   A Kansas farmer's "bi-rotor combine" won the farm bureau's
grand prize: a year's free use of a fancy model of a Ford
Motor Co. tractor. Inventor Mark Underwood of Burr Oak, Kan.,
says his machine is lighter and more efficient than
conventional harvesting equipment, with half as many moving
parts. Instead of the moving cylinder and stationary grate
found in conventional combines, Mr. Underwood uses a
fast-moving cylinder inside a slower revolving outer cylinder
to separate grain from chaff.
   Stanley Clark, head of the agriculture engineering
department at Kansas State University, says the bi-rotor's
prototype "has been through a maze of developments without
serious problems." He says there's "no doubt" that Mr.
Underwood's machine does a better all-around harvesting job
than conventional combines.
   Sales of new combines have run about 10,000 units for the
past three years. Mr. Underwood has talked with manufacturers
of large and small farm equipment about producing the
combine. Kansas Technology Enterprise Corp., a unit of the
state of Kansas, is backing Mr. Underwood's project with a
$100,000 matching grant.
   Just winning a coveted spot on the Farm Bureau's ideas
showcase can get a small business rolling. Two years ago,
R.L. Wilson of Cherokee, Okla., showed a videotape of his
portable livestock corral at the bureau's convention in
Orlando, Fla. The corral, initially welded from used pipe and
windmill parts, can be hauled on wheels behind a pickup truck
and unfolded in a field by one person.
   "There were 8,000 people at the convention," Mr. Wilson
says, and some later became customers. "It gave me a real big
boost."
   Mr. Wilson soon was able to jump into full-time
manufacturing, after working 23 years as a grain harvester.
Ten workers assemble the corrals in a building rented from
the Alfalfa County Fair Board. "I have to move out twice a
year when the fair goes on," he says. Wilson Manufacturing
Co. sold 120 corrals for an average of $6,000 each last year,
its second year of operation, he adds.
   Mr. Wilson says he's now setting up a national dealer
network and introducing a second product: a wagon to haul and
stack round bales and large square bales. Another wagon,
already on the market, can handle both kinds of bales -- but
costs $70,000, compared with the projected $14,000 price for
his version, he says.
   Mr. Jones, who now travels the tradeshow circuit while his
son runs the farm, isn't surprised that farms are a fount of
useful ideas. "Farmers are self-sufficient, and when you see
something that isn't working the way you want it to, you
think of how to do it better," says the 60-year-old inventor
of the jar opener.
   Certainly that was true for Donald O'Neall, a
farmer-inventor from Downs, Ill. Conceding that tractor
driving is "a very tedious, boring job," the corn and soybean
farmer invented a system of electronic probes that helps a
farmer cultivate a straight line. He has licensed the device,
called "Cat Whiskers," to Tri-R Innovations Inc., a farm
equipment manufacturer in Gibson City, Ill. Tri-R Innovation
owner Ralph Baillie says he has sold about 300 Cat Whisker
units a year at $725 each since 1987.
   Another O'Neall idea, called the Spot Shot Sprayer,
delivers squirts of weed killer to individual weeds spotted
by an electric eye rather than spraying herbicide widely over
a field. The product, introduced last year, sells for between
$3,000 and $5,000. Early responses are "very good," says Rich
Follmer, president of Progressive Farm Products Inc. of
Hudson, Ill., the product's licensee. Mr. Follmer figures the
sprayer could reduce herbicide costs on 80 acres to $7 or $8
from $800.
   Mr. O'Neall says he follows Thomas Edison's maxim that
inventions should be money makers: "I'm a businessman, and
the idea is to get a return on my investment." But he says
the fact that farmers are "finding ways to take ideas, and
the financial risk, and bring them to the marketplace . . .
gives me more pride than making money."
   Asked how other farmers might cash in on their ideas, Mr.
Jones remembers his patent attorney's advice: "She told us,
`Persistence, persistence, persistence.' That was so true."