Technology  Medicine:
   Panel Urges FDA
   To Approve Device
   Of Medtronic Inc.
   ----
   By James P. Miller
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Medtronic of Minneapolis has said it anticipates $100
million in additional revenue from world-wide sales of the
PCD. While the device is already sold in a number of European
countries, the U.S market is considered by far the largest
market for such devices.
   In mid-1991, Medtronic reached a crosslicensing pact with
Cardiac Pacemakers Inc., a unit of Eli Lilly  Co.; that
agreement settled a long-running patent fight, and among
other things, removed any legal constraints against
Medtronic's entry into the U.S. defribillator market.
   Medtronic's PCD is designed to treat tachyarrhythmia, a
condition in which the heart's beat is overly rapid. The
device, implanted in the patient's chest, delivers small
electric shocks to reduce the heartbeat. Unlike the only
device currently on the market -- which delivers a single
level of electrical stimulation -- the "staged-therapy" PCD
delivers three levels of intensity, depending on the severity
of the condition at any given time.
   The PCD would mark the first entry into the U.S.
defibrillator market for Medtronic. Until Medtronic
introduced the tachyarrhythmia-management device in Europe in
March 1991, the company's core products were heart pacemakers
for treating a too-slow heartbeat.
   If Medtronic gets approval, it will offer the first U.S.
competition to a tachyarrhythmia device now made by Eli
Lilly's Cardiac Pacemakers unit.
   The Lilly unit currently makes only a single-voltage
device and is developing its own version of a tiered product.
   The FDA panel's action yesterday had been widely
anticipated, and Medtronic's stock rose 62.5 cents a share
yesterday in late New York Stock Exchange trading to close at
$87.125.
   The panel is to vote today on a tiered tachyarrhythmia
device that would represent the first commercial product from
recently public Ventritex Inc. of Sunnyvale, Calif.