Exxon Hoping to Lure Small Investors,
   Begins Program to Sell Shares Directly
   ----
   By Caleb Solomon
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
"It's a great program for the little guy," said John
Markese, president of the American Association of Individual
Investors, a Chicago group with 125,000 members. "I expect
more firms to do that."
   Mr. Markese said the program could save individual
investors a lot of money because for small purchases of
stock, the brokerage fee can often be a high percentage of
the total cost. For instance, a call yesterday to a Phoenix,
Ariz., representative of the discount brokerage Charles
Schwab  Co. found that the firm charges a commission of $55
to buy 27 shares of Exxon stock. The firm charges the same
fee to buy 100 shares.
   "If I buy more shares, I'll buy them through this
program," said Hunter Martin, a Houston executive and a
current Exxon shareholder.
   Exxon, often among the most actively traded stocks and one
of the companies that make up the Dow Jones Industrial
Average, was quoted at $55.375, down 12.5 cents a share, in
late New York Stock Exchange composite trading yesterday.
   Exxon officials noted that of the company's 600,000
registered shareholders, more than 60% are individuals, a
higher proportion than at many other companies. "We value our
small shareholders," said Richard Rosenberg, assistant
treasurer, at the company's headquarters in Irving, Texas.
"We think they're stable and loyal investors."
   Under the program, investors must make an initial purchase
of at least $250. After that they can buy stock as frequently
as once a week in increments as small as $50. Purchases can't
be made beyond $8,000 a month. Dividends can automatically be
reinvested to buy more shares or can be paid to holders.
   In addition, Exxon will hold investors' shares if they
choose, as brokerage firms often do, and provide itemized
statements each quarter. Holders can make free transfers or
gifts of Exxon stock and can establish Individual Retirement
Accounts that use the program.
   Shareholders can sell their Exxon shares for a relatively
small transaction cost of 10 cents a share plus a flat $5
fee.
   The stock to be sold under the program will be purchased
by Exxon in open-market transactions, Mr. Rosenberg said.
Such purchases are separate from the large share buy-backs
that Exxon has made in recent years.
   Exxon wouldn't comment on what the program will cost, but
Bryan Jacoboski, an oil analyst at PaineWebber Inc. in New
York, thinks the program is well worth it to Exxon because it
cultivates small shareholders, who tend to be more loyal to a
company than big institutional investors.
   "The large institutions tend to measure {a company} on
quarterly performance and are quick to sell stocks, put
pressure on management and support proxy battles," Mr.
Jacoboski said. "Small investors tend to support management."
   Beyond that, Exxon could gain some product loyalty at
gasoline stations if it can broaden the number of small
investors it has and make them happier.
   One group, however, may be unhappy if Exxon's program
catches on. "It's not good for people who work for brokerage
firms, like me," Mr. Jacoboski said. "We would certainly
rather see people pay commissions."