With Western Military Contracts,
   The Saudis Also Get Investments
Other neighboring Persian Gulf countries such as Kuwait
and the United Arab Emirates are planning similar programs
and closely watching the Saudi experience.
   The UAE, whose defense purchases are expected to exceed $2
billion over the next four or five years, has already
established an Offsets Group to seek out projects.
   "The Saudis pioneered this particular offset concept and
have administered it helpfully and well," says Claus
Claesson, president of Boeing Co.'s Boeing Middle East Ltd.,
which has invested in four offset projects along with
partners such as Westinghouse Electric Corp. and ITT Corp.
   "It's a way of putting the billions that they spend on
defense to work to create an industrial infrastructure," he
said.
   Both foreign partners and the Saudis, who are trying to
diversify their economy so they won't be so dependent on oil,
admit that the road between a good idea and a project is much
longer than both sides had hoped.
   There have been multiple levels of corporate and
government bureaucracies to contend with among other things.
The Gulf war put a lot of decisions on hold.
   The Saudis negotiated their first offset arrangement with
Boeing more than five years ago and the Boeing-sponsored
projects, the first to bear fruit, are just now getting off
the ground.
   "Things did take a long time to get started," says
Abdel-Aziz al-Sugair, the president of Advanced Electronics
Co., the tactical radio manufacturer that is one of the very
few offset companies to actually be in operation now.
   "But it's not just idle talk anymore. It's really
happening." he said.
   Boeing promised the Saudis to drum up several hundred
million dollars, or 35% of the technical content of its Peace
Shield $1.2 billion contract to set up a Saudi air defense
command and control system. It has done so through
investments in four defense-related companies.
   Now Hughes Aircraft Co. will be finishing up the Peace
Shield contract for $837 million and is just setting up its
own offset program to encourage hundreds of millions of
dollars more investment in similar ventures.
   Hughes has some ideas which the Saudis like, making use of
both Hughes technologies and those of its parent, General
Motors Corp. These include radar depots, computer software,
battery production and truck assembly.
   Hughes also hopes to lure in foreign investment unrelated
to GM and Hughes.
   But the Hughes offset company is less than a year old and
no specific proposals for plants have been accepted by the
Saudis yet.
   The ideas haven't passed the final scrutiny of GM yet
either, which is dealing with massive layoffs at home.
   There may be some strategic benefit to be gained for U.S.
companies from offset.
   "For so many years, Hughes considered Washington, D.C., to
be its bread and butter and we didn't look internationally,"
said John Crigler, president of Hughes Saudi Arabia.
   "Offset might provide just the motivation we need to start
doing things that we should have been doing all along to get
us into a free market environment."
   The British have a bigger investment target looming before
them, almost #1 billion pounds ($1.71 billion), to offset the
sale to the Saudis of Toronado, Hawk and other military
aircraft begun in 1985. The prime contractor is British
Aerospace PLC.
   So far, 10 British-sponsored projects have been approved
by the Saudis -- everything from soybean processing and
pharmaceutical manufacturing to light truck assembly -- but
none have yet taken off.
   "We're aiming for implementation of a few of the projects
this year," says Jeff Mitchell, senior executive of the
British offset office in Riyadh.
   The British offset number will grow if an expected deal
for more Toronados is signed in the coming months. All told,
the Saudis could sign defense contracts worth #10 billion
with the British.
   The French are jumping on the offset bandwagon in
anticipation of a warship deal with the Saudis becoming
official this year.
   The French have set up an office in Riyadh through their
major defense contractor Thompson CSF. They have one project,
a gold refinery, ready to be implemented.