Not-So-Subtle Slugs
   Have Many Lovers,
   Including Scientists
   ---
   Researchers Are Attracted
   To Their Amazing Minds;
   But the Critters Dig Sex
   ----
   By Eric Morgenthaler
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Even one of the creature's biggest fans, Columbia
University neurobiologist Eric R. Kandel, says Aplysia -- a
mollusk with an internal shell -- exhibits "limited behavior,
even compared to other invertebrates." What he means is a
squid would be livelier company.
   Yet that helps explain why people such as Dr. Kandel are
drawn to slugs. They love them for their minds.
   It also is why the University of Miami, in cooperation
with Dr. Kandel, is raising thousands of the creatures in a
laboratory in a converted garage near a nude beach on this
little island off downtown Miami. Scientists say the Aplysia
Resource Facility, as it is called, is the world's only
commercial sea-slug farm.
   The sign on the front door, yellow and diamond-shaped like
a traffic marker, reads "SLUG XING," with a silhouette of a
snail. Staffers sometimes answer the phone, "Slugs R Us."
   Every Tuesday, the lab sends out hundreds of live sea
slugs to scientists around the globe. The creatures are
sorted by size -- most would fit in a person's hand --
packaged in long plastic sacks, then put in boxes for
overnight shipping. The recipients use the animals in some of
the most cutting-edge research going on today in the biology
of learning and memory.
   "Aplysia has a simple repertoire of behavior -- it does
nothing but eat, rest and copulate -- and that's what makes
it important," says Thomas R. Capo, a biologist and manager
of the lab here, which is funded by the Howard Hughes Medical
Institute, in Bethesda, Md.
   "If you get into something complex, like a mouse or a rat,
it just makes life more difficult," he says. "The fact that
this is so simple makes it a wonderful research model."
   The slug, indeed, seems made for study. It has relatively
few neurons, or nerve cells -- only about 20,000, compared
with billions in, say, a mouse -- but those it has can reach
a millimeter in diameter, or more than 1,000 times the size
of human brain cells. Columbia's Dr. Kandel says Aplysia has
the largest nerve cells of any animal known.
   The combination of size and simplicity -- the neurons are
bunched into 10 groups, called ganglia -- has enabled
scientists to work out "wiring diagrams," showing the role of
individual nerve cells in behavior. Researchers inject slugs
with dye, then use electronic tracing devices to monitor
everything from the "firing pattern" of individual neurons to
the scene at the synapses, where nerve cells connect.
   Although the slug's system is a primitive one, its lessons
aren't. "Aplysia is very good for studying higher-order
features, such as how synapses change as a result of
experience, how they are modified in short and long-term
memory, and what molecular events underlie memory," says Dr.
Kandel, who since the 1960s has pioneered the study of
Aplysia as a research model.
   "You may have to survive in life as a blob at the bottom
of the ocean, but you do have to survive," he notes. "You
have to distinguish food that's nutritious from food that's
poisonous. You have to distinguish a predator from your
sexual partner. The fact is, these animals show quite good
learning capabilities."
   Today's farming activities date to the early 1970s, when
Dr. Kandel and a graduate student, Arnold Kriegstein,
launched an Aplysia-breeding project as part of Dr. Kandel's
work on the molecular foundations of learning and memory. Dr.
Kandel wanted lab-bred slugs in order to guarantee a
quality-control that wasn't possible with slugs gathered in
the wild.
   Successfully breeding the creatures, however, took a full
decade -- first in New York, then at Woods Hole, Mass., where
the project moved in 1978. "The animals are very fastidious,"
explains Richard J. Bookman, a lab technician during the
mid-1970s, who recalls years of frustration with "a zillion
little details." The last breeding problems were solved in
1983, but feeding problems lingered. The lab couldn't grow
seaweed in cold weather, and it had to buy hundreds of pounds
of it each week. Finally, in 1989, the lab moved to south
Florida, where it could grow its own seaweed all year long.
   Today, the Aplysia lab is an efficient, cheerfully casual
operation across town from the University of Miami's main
campus. Tropical plants snake around the two-story structure,
and a blue racing bike leans against the door. Inside, a
radio blares the Rolling Stones, and a sign on a bulletin
board reads, "The only difference between this place and the
Titanic is they had a band." Six people work on the project,
tending slugs and weekly harvesting 500 pounds of red
seaweed, the sea slug's bread-and-butter.
   The "grow-out lab" where the slugs are raised is clean and
brightly lighted, with rows of three-gallon clear-plastic
tanks in which slugs loll about. The number of slugs per tank
varies from two to 300, depending on their size, and each
tank is marked with a tape giving the age and lineage of the
occupants. Each slug gets a daily shower -- the tank-water
level is lowered, and the creatures gently hosed off -- and a
weekly move to a clean tank.
   The slugs act sluggish. "They don't really do anything,"
says Lynn Hiskey, who runs the grow-out lab. But, she adds,
"I think they're kind of neat."
   The lab keeps a brood stock of about 20 animals, but most
slugs are shipped out before they reach sexual maturity.
Slugs range in price from $3 (for the smallest) to $20
apiece; an egg mass -- which looks like a tangle of string
and contains as many as three million eggs -- goes for $5.
Last year, the lab shipped about 22,000 slugs.
   The slugs' tanks are filled with filtered seawater from
Biscayne Bay, cooled to 50 to 55 degrees to slow the animals'
development. Mr. Capo says that if the water is too warm, the
slugs won't do anything but have sex all day. "Sometimes they
sit there for hours doing it," he says.
   Which brings us, very carefully, to orgies.
   Sea slugs are hermaphrodites, meaning that each has both
male and female sex organs. A slug can't have sex with
itself, but otherwise the possibilities are endless. "In the
field, they have mating orgies which could involve thousands
of animals," says Mr. Capo, as he notes several small-scale
versions in the lab's tanks. ("Here's a good one," he says,
pointing to what seems to be three animals.)
   Dr. Kandel writes that "group sex" or "chain copulation"
-- often involving up to 10 animals and forming a complete
circle -- is Aplysia's "most complex social behavior." It is
also, he says, an example of "higher-order social behavior."
At this point, we introduce another form of higher-order
behavior -- leaving well enough alone -- and suggest that if
you want to know anything more about sea-slug sex, or sea
slugs, you consult your local science library.
   (See related letter: "Letters to the Editor: Sex-Crazed
Slugs Die Following Beer Orgy" -- WSJ March 24, 1992)
   920213-0111