Tuesday's Markets:
   Stocks Rebound
   From 4-Day Fall
   And Bonds Slip
   ----
   By Douglas R. Sease
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Kenneth Spence, an independent technical analyst, said
yesterday's advance was a natural reaction to the heavy
selling that began last week. Nevertheless, he said, he
believes the stock market will decline in the next several
weeks, carrying the Dow industrials as low as 3100.
   "The market needs to consolidate further before it can
regroup and move higher," he said. Investors can learn
something in the decline, he added: Watch whether stocks of
companies tied to the economic cycle hold up better than
growth issues. "If cyclical stocks can outperform, they will
clearly emerge as the new leaders" of the market, he said.
But don't dismiss growth stocks entirely, particularly if
interest rates decline-which he expects.
   Stocks apparently also got a boost yesterday from the
payment of billions of dollars of dividends, some of which
presumably flow back into the stock market through
reinvestment. Many major corporations make their quarterly
dividend payments on the 10th day of each quarter's third
month, making an estimated $10 billion suddenly available for
reinvestment.
   In major market action:
                                                                                                       

   Stock prices rallied. Volume totaled 194.5 million shares
on the New York Stock Exchange, where 1,076 issues rose and
630 fell.
                                                                                                       

   Bond prices slipped on technical factors. The Treasury's
benchmark 30-year issue lost more than a quarter of a point,
or more than $2.50 for each $1,000 face amount. The yield on
the issue rose to 7.9%.
                                                                                                       

   The dollar rose. In late New York trading the currency was
quoted at 1.6705 marks and 132.85 yen, compared with 1.661
marks and 131.92 yen Monday.