Delta Posts Loss
   In Quarter; Routes
   Of Pan Am Cited
   ----
   By Bridget O'Brian
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Delta's revenue jumped 23%, the result of strong gains in
passenger and cargo traffic. For the quarter, Delta had
revenue of $2.62 billion, compared with $2.13 billion.
   Those increases were attributable chiefly to the Pan Am
routes -- which enabled Delta to add 21 destinations in
November, while putting pressure on the company's bottom
line. "This aggressive growth in operations, along with
additional expansion during the year, was a primary cause of
increases in operating expenses for the quarter," said Thomas
J.Roeck Jr., Delta's chief financial officer. Operating
expenses were up 17% in the quarter; salaries and related
costs increased 20%, and all other expenses jumped 40%.
   Delta had agreed to buy Pan Am assets for $416 million and
to hire several thousand of its employees in August. At the
time, it also agreed to loan and invest several hundred
million dollars more in a reorganized Pan Am, in which it
would take a minority stake. By the fall, however, the Pan Am
investment was clearly costing Delta far more than either
company had anticipated, and Delta pulled out of the
reorganization plan after Thanksgiving. Pan Am shut down Dec.
4.
   In addition to its own difficulties, Delta said it was
affected by the same trends buffeting the airline industry:
the sluggish national economy, discount fares and
after-effects of the Gulf War. Traffic still hasn't improved
entirely; the Air Transport Association said recently that
December traffic growth, initially projected at 6%, was
actually only 3.6%. For the year, air travel was down 2.3%,
its first decline since 1981.
   Although Mr. Roeck said he is encouraged by the recent
decline in jet-fuel prices, Delta still has trouble ahead.
"Continued soft economic conditions, unacceptably high unit
cost growth plaguing the industry and the cost of initiating
service on the newly acquired routes are expected to have a
negative effect on Delta's fiscal 1992 results," he said.
   For the six months, Delta reported a net loss of $174.5
million, or $3.72 a share, on revenue of $5.19 billion. In
the year-ago period, Delta had a deficit of $259.4 million,
or $6.19 a share, on revenue of $4.35 billion. Delta's fiscal
year ends June 30.