Speaking of Business:
   Do We Really Need Lower Interest Rates?
   ----
   By Lindley H. Clark Jr.
"Interest rates. The average man doesn't understand them.
Maybe nobody fully understands them. But they have a big
impact on everybody's cost of living. And right now they are
in the longest climb in the nation's history."
   Any veteran O'Riley reader knew what was coming next:
statistics. One of his more interesting charts dealt with
corporate borrowing costs -- as Mr. O'Riley put it, "what it
costs corporations to finance new factories." The
accompanying chart, an updated version of Mr. O'Riley's,
shows average yields on new issues of high-grade corporate
bonds for the final month of each year except 1991, when the
figure is for November.
   One fairly obvious point is that interest rates aren't
quite as vital -- by themselves -- as they sometimes seem to
be. Mr. O'Riley was writing in 1975, when the yield on the
bonds was 9.59%, and in the 1980s interest rates moved to
even higher levels. Yet from late 1982 to early 1991, the
U.S. economy enjoyed its longest peacetime expansion ever.
One reason for this pleasant period is that inflation slowed
sharply in the 1980 and 1981-82 recessions and remained
restrained through the rest of the decade.
   According to the Commerce Department, corporate borrowing
costs are a lagging indicator. They tend to move in the same
direction as general economic activity, but with a lag. So,
in 1991, interest rates moved down as the economy did.
   Was it necessary for the Federal Reserve to cut the
federal funds rate and the discount rate in December? To a
certain extent, the moves were irrelevant. The funds rate is
the fee banks charge on very short-term loans to one another,
and the discount rate is the fee the Fed charges on loans to
member banks; neither rate is available to businessmen.
   Jerry L. Jordan, chief economist of First Interstate Bank
in Los Angeles, thinks the Fed's cuts in December were a form
of insurance; the central bank wanted to discourage Congress
and the administration from doing something silly with fiscal
policy, such as cutting taxes. It remains to be seen how
successful the insurance will be.
   In any case, the financial markets clearly believe the
Federal Reserve has done all that it's going to do with
interest rates. Declining interest rates have spurred a surge
in new corporate financing and home mortgage refinancing,
which has helped to slow the drop in interest rates. Also
working against further interest rate cuts was the fact that
Congress and the administration have continued to talk of tax
cuts, leading the markets to worry about inflation. Although
some analysts think rates will go lower, there is a great
deal of sentiment that rates are at or close to their
bottoms.
   Some analysts, in fact, think the next sustained move in
interest rates will be upward, as the general economy
strengthens. Blue Chip Economic Indicators, a Sedona, Ariz.,
newsletter, each month polls some 50 leading forecasters. On
the average, they expect only a 0.8% rise in
inflation-adjusted gross domestic product in the current
quarter, but after that they think things will pick up, with
real GDP rising by 3.1% for the full year. Interest rates on
high-grade corporate bonds are expected to rise steadily
after the current quarter.
   Economist Milton Friedman once said that there was only
one problem with a consensus -- it was always wrong. When
John O'Riley was worrying about the level of interest rates
back in 1975, he asked, "Where do we go from here?" He was
wise enough to admit that he didn't know. In 1992 that might
still be the wise answer. As the nation moves closer to this
fall's elections, it's entirely possible that Congress and
the administration will decide we really do need a tax cut,
and maybe the Fed then will take out another insurance policy
with new cuts in the funds rate and the discount rate.
   It actually looks like the best move would be to leave
well enough alone. But that's not likely to sound like a good
political platform.
   ---
   Corporate Borrowing Costs
                                                                                                       

   Year         Rate
                                                                                                       


   1984         12.47
   1985         10.42
   1986          8.87
   1987         10.22
   1988         10.05
   1989          9.23
   1990          9.55
   1991          8.72