International:
   Steelworkers
   Of Germany
   Endorse Strike
   ---
   If Union Board Clears Move,
   Industry and Customers
   May Face Disruptions
   ----
   By Audrey Choi
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Volkswagen AG, for example, could face production
standstills within a few days if strikes are widespread, and
the company's workers have been alerted that they could be
put on short schedules in the coming weeks. The Mercedes-Benz
AG unit of Daimler-Benz AG said that it has only about five
days of steel reserves on hand at its huge Sindelfingen
factory in southern Germany.
   Similar production bottlenecks would plague a variety of
other steel-dependent industries, such as machine-tool
producers and engineering companies.
   Those close to the negotiations say that chances for a
quick solution will diminish once a walkout begins, as 10
failed rounds of negotiations over the past four months have
left both sides embittered. The results of a unionwide vote
made public Friday showed that 86.8% of the IG Metall
membership supported the strike motion.
   Although the last round of pay talks broke off with the
two sides only a percentage point apart on the salary
increase, Peter-Ulrich Schmithals, chairman of the steel
employers' negotiating group, has asserted that no new offer
would be made to try to avert a strike.
   For the steel industry, the wage battle comes at a time
when the global market is suffering from collapsing prices,
overcapacity and weak demand. Industry analysts estimate that
every percentage-point increase in wages costs the German
steel industry an additional 90 million marks to 100 million
marks ($56 million to $62 million) a year.
   The industry has asserted that it is in a battle to
prevent an erosion of its competitive position world-wide.
Politicians and economists also have joined the fray, warning
that wage increases much over 5% could accelerate inflation
and threaten the stability of Germany's economy.
   If a strike drags on, steel producers run the risk of
losing their market share as stranded customers are forced to
seek alternative suppliers. With oversupply glutting the
market, other European steelmakers, as well as U.S. or Asian
manufacturers, will be more than happy to fill the gap, noted
Richard Schramm, steel and engineering analyst at Trinkaus 
Burkhardt in Dusseldorf.
   Union officials, who initially sought a 10.5% raise, said
they would have been willing to agree to a 6.7% increase.
Industry sources assert that even a 6.2% rise would have been
accepted, but steelmakers made a final offer of an effective
raise of 5.7%.
   "It's no longer just about wages, but about honor," said
Lorenz Brockhues, head of IG Metall's negotiators. The
industry has had ample time for offers and counteroffers, but
instead has forced the union into this fight, Mr. Brockhues
said.
   A walkout would be its first in 13 years.
   Some on the side of the industry point to a recent study
by the Employers Association of the Steel and Iron Industry
that showed a German steelworker worked 1,481 hours in 1990,
compared with 2,092 hours clocked by a Japanese steelworker.
The German earned 43.12 marks ($26.75) an hour and his
Japanese counterpart the equivalent of 35.11 marks.
   Steelworkers, however, say they are looking only to catch
up with the wages of other German metalworkers.
   Even if a strike turns the screws tight enough to win
steelworkers a raise of 6% or more, it could prove a
short-lived victory. An inexorable drive to shrink the
industry's work force is under way all over the industry. The
planned merger of Fried. Krupp G.m.b.H. and Hoesch AG could
lead to the elimination of as many as 10,000 jobs. Thyssen
also has plans to trim up to 10,000 jobs.
   It's the same outside Germany. In France last week,
steelmaker Usinor Sacilor posted a 3.1 billion franc ($563
million) loss for 1991, partly related to restructuring plans
that will slash up to 8,000 jobs in the next three years. The
U.S.'s second-largest steel producer, Bethlehem Steel Corp.,
last week announced cuts of 6,500 jobs.
   The German steelworkers' contract expired at the end of
October.