LEISURE  ARTS:
   Two Big Musicals and a Noel Coward
   ----
   By Edwin Wilson
Like Loesser himself, the original production in 1956,
with a 35-piece orchestra in the pit, went all out. Director
Gerald Gutierrez, in a production that first opened at the
Goodspeed Opera House in Connecticut and has now come to the
Booth Theatre here, has headed in the opposite direction.
Using a two-piano score that Loesser had prepared at one
time, Mr. Gutierrez has mounted a fresh, intimate "Most Happy
Fella."
   All the wonderful tunes are still there, but in a far more
immediate setting. In the Booth Theatre, one of the smallest
on Broadway, there is no need for amplification, and so there
is not a microphone in sight, or better yet, in earshot. To
sit a few feet away, seeing the performers close-up and not
miles away through the wrong end of a telescope, and to hear
every note, even whispered intimacies, this alone is worth
the price of admission. Another benefit is that the love
story, with its numerous roadblocks, seems less contrived on
this more personal scale.
   Mr. Gutierrez has assembled a formidable cast. Sophie
Hayden and opera singer Spiro Malas not only have excellent
voices, they bring a welcome human dimension to the
principals, and as the comic couple in the subplot Scott
Waara and Liz Larsen are equally impressive.
   This season has also brought us another song-crammed
musical classic. George and Ira Gershwin's "Girl Crazy"
(1930) changed the history of American popular music with
"Bidin' My Time," "Embraceable You," "I Got Rhythm" and "But
Not for Me." It also introduced Ethel Merman to the Broadway
stage and featured a young performer called Ginger Rogers.
But it had an inane, outrageous libretto about a rich playboy
whose banking family sends him to foreclose on family
property out West, where he falls in love with the daughter
of the local postmaster.
   Director Mike Ockrent and author Ken Ludwig have changed
the story so that Bobby (Harry Groener), the rake from the
East, is a dancer, and the local girl, Polly (Jodi Benson),
not only runs the post office but has an abandoned theater on
her hands. Bobby pretends he is an impresario from New York
and brings a group of chorus girls out West to save the
theater. After the predictable vicissitudes, everything comes
right in the end.
   Because of the changes in the story, and also because of
the many songs appropriated from other Gershwin shows, the
musical, which opened this week at the Shubert Theatre, has
been renamed "Crazy for You." The emphasis is still on
neither the story nor the characters, and logic remains in
short supply. People fall in or out of love at the drop of a
Stetson or the removal of a false mustache -- often as an
excuse for a song cue. And musical numbers often look as if
they came not from the story but an old Busby Berkeley movie.
The finale, for example, features Bobby and Polly, dressed in
white like Fred and Ginger at their spiffiest, on a circular
platform that rises toward the stars as showgirls in spangles
and ostrich plumes parade on stairways in the air. Deadrock,
Nev., the scene of the play, never saw anything remotely
resembling it, even in its heyday as a mining town.
   But this is beside the point. "Crazy for You" is
entertainment, first and foremost, and as such it is an
exuberant evening of amusing sight gags invented by Mr.
Ockrent, stunning costumes by William Ivey Long, energetic,
clever dances by Susan Stroman, and marvelous Gershwin music.
   Added to the best of the original score are numbers like
"Slap That Bass" and "They Can't Take That Away From Me" from
"Shall We Dance?" (1937), "Someone to Watch over Me" from
"Oh, Kay" (1926), and "Nice Work If You Can Get It" from
"Damsels in Distress" (1937). Some of these are shoehorned
in, but others give Ms. Stroman a chance to display her
exhilarating choreography.
   She uses props imaginatively and builds the action from
one level to the next with a rush of excitement. In "Slap
That Bass," for example, ropes held by chorus girls become
the strings of a bass plucked by the men, and in another
number pickaxes turn into pendulums on which the women swing.
   If only the energy and electricity generated by the
performers in "Crazy for You" could be transferred to the
Broadhurst Theatre next door, where a revival of Noel
Coward's "Private Lives" (1930) opened last night. The reason
for the resuscitation of this brittle, witty romance is the
ineffable Joan Collins. Her performance provokes only one
thought: Attempting to realize unfulfilled teenage dreams in
later life is a hazardous business.
   Ms. Collins says she has wanted to portray Amanda ever
since she was an 18-year-old student at the Royal Academy of
Dramatic Arts in London. Now, at 58 -- many films, TV shows
and books later -- she has her wish.
   She should have left well enough alone. Many people assume
that the play, with its clever, sophisticated characters and
witty lines, is actor-proof, but such is not the case. The
test comes in act two when Amanda and Elyot (Simon Jones),
have fled their new spouses (Edward Duke and Jill Tasker) and
are hiding out in her Paris apartment. It is a scene of
repartee that requires an elan and an insouciance that few
performers can muster. Certainly neither Ms. Collins nor Mr.
Jones is up to the challenge.