LEISURE  ARTS:
   Music for the Ears; Food for the Gut
   ----
   By David Littlejohn
Finnish opera composers inevitably write about Finnish
subjects. For "Kullervo," Mr. Sallinen draws on the
quintessentially Finnish subject, the 22,798-line national
epic poem called the "Kalevala," compiled from traditional
ballads by a physician/philologist in 1835-49. But he made
even more use of an 1864 play by Aleksis Kivi, also called
"Kullervo." Kivi had altered and embellished six of the 50
cantos (or runos) of the 1849 epic into a slightly more
useable plot, adding a few more characters and some sex, and
subtracting the creakier fairy-tale elements. For his opera,
Mr. Sallinen works in some dream sequences and a modern-dress
chorus of about 50 people.
   There are "Siegfried"-like elements in the story of
Kullervo, the brash, doomed "orphan" (or so he thinks) who
does everything wrong, despite his supposedly superhuman
powers. The plot episodes Mr. Sallinen borrows are
disconnected and numbingly simplistic, and seem insusceptible
of the sort of human depth or philosophical enrichment that
Wagner was able to give to his epic sources.
   Tormented slave boy is sold by wicked uncle to a smith;
kills the smith's animals, and then his horny wife as well
(her lusting, red-shifted ghost keeps reappearing);
fortuitously discovers his parents somewhere (they are
dressed, for some reason, as a king and queen); realizes in a
dream that he has seduced his own sister and driven her to
suicide; flees in shame to destroy the wicked uncle who
started all this mess; sees his only friend go mad; and then
kills himself.
   The text is better than Mr. Sallinen's quasi-mystical "The
King Goes Forth to France" (1983), but not as good as his
painful, potent social-realist "The Red Line" (1979), a story
of poor peasants early in this century, which remains his
strongest claim to durability in the international
repertoire. This rather staid production (which Helsinki will
see next year) is unworthy of the music, which is often
powerful, listenable and emotionally engaging. The orchestral
score tends toward discontinuous reticence rather than
dramatic statement, pulsing along behind the voices (the bass
line can be very moving), punctuated at appropriate moments
by horn bursts or percussive drumbeats or cracks. As in "The
Red Line," the composer incorporates a cynical, Brechtian
pop-music ballad; a fair amount of spoken, or nearspoken,
dialogue; and poignant moments of lyricism amid the general
moral and musical chaos.
   Baritone Jorma Hynninen sang a warm and resonant Kullervo,
and acted as much as his foredoomed, two-dimensional
character permits. Eeva-Liisa Saarinen was clear and moving
as his mother. (The two have both sung leads in "The Red
Line.") Tenor Jorma Silvastri was excellent as Kullervo's
friend Kimmo, and Vesa-Matti Loiri -- a popular Finnish
stage, film, cabaret and recording star -- stopped the show
with his Blind Singer's ballad, sung with a hand-held mike.
The chorus was magnificent, trained to the last vibrating
chord. Ulf Soderblom conducted with knowing ardor, as he does
on the new Ondine recording.
   ---
   People here have also been lavished with a more visceral
operatic experience in the form of Granita, Wolfgang Puck's
latest restaurant, a noisy, $2 million, 140-seat show-place
in a Malibu shopping mall. It's named after a kind of Italian
fruit ice. I tried the pomegranate with lemon gelato, which
was served inside a crisp, edible brown lacy pastry basket
studded with slivered almonds. My guests, who actually live
in Malibu, spotted at least three people more famous than
they. Almost no one except the laid-back servers wore ties;
theirs were inch-wide day-glo strips that matched their
vests.
   The food -- the usual quail-egg ravioli, your basic $24
scorpion fish en papillote, full of little bones and laid
atop a spicy pile of shiitake mushrooms and red and green
things; succulent Gulf shrimp with Thai salad; sauteed black
bass with macadamia-nut pesto and curry sauce; exquisite
stir-fried ginger duck rolled up in thin scallion crepes; six
scallops in big shells surrounding hot-spiced linguini; a
Mediterranean soup with half a lobster sticking out (the
tasty meat rolled out in one piece); Mr. Puck's fancy little
$11 signature pizzas (also available at his four other trendy
restaurants) -- was, of course, rich, strange and expensive.
The interior design (by Barbara Lazaroff, who is married to
Mr. Puck) was a sort of psychedelic stage set for "20,000
Leagues Under the Sea."
   If you are going to spend $60 a person on lunch surrounded
by people with shirts open to the waist exposing hairy chests
and silver chains with silver crosses being pawed by bevies
of Farrah clones, one might as well do it by the light of
phallic sconces, while neon fish dart by shuddering sea
anemones in nearby aquariums and a 12-foot-long merman looms
overhead.
   ---
   Mr. Littlejohn is a novelist, critic and professor of
journalism at the University of California, Berkeley.