Musical Chairs:
   One Reform
   U.N. Doesn't Need
   ----
   By Amity Shlaes
So who should sit at this newly powerful table? Japan's
Kiichi Miyazawa, here as head of a nonpermanent member, is
expected to make a statement alluding to -- if not pushing
for -- permanent membership for his country. There's some
logic to this, given the size of Japan's economy and the fact
that the country's nonpeacekeeping share of the U.N. budget
is, at 12.5%, second-largest in the world.
   But Mr. Miyazawa's own parliament just rejected a bill
that would have allowed him to dispatch peacekeeping troops,
a sign he may find little domestic support for widening
Japan's policeman role. And the other logical candidate for
permanent membership, Germany, has chosen to absent itself
from the debate. The treaty on European unity signed last
month at Maastricht, says Bonn's New York mission, means
Britain and France will represent Germany at the U.N. anyhow.
So much for Deutschland Uber Alles.
   The second scheme in the diplomatic air comes from Brazil,
which wants to introduce a third level of status in the
Security Council. Under the Brazilian plan, important
developing countries such as Brazil, India and Nigeria would
become vetoless permanent members. Ronaldo Sardenberg, the
Brazilian ambassador to the U.N., makes the case for
expansion. "It's dangerous to ignore countries like Brazil or
India," he says, noting that Brazil has the largest gross
national product in Latin America.
   These arguments are compelling. Even the most devoted
Gaullist will likely understand that there's something
precious and wrongheaded going on when Paris, but not Tokyo,
holds one-fifth of what U.N.-boosters say is becoming the
international military authority. Including India on the
Council is worthwhile even if it only gives the West a chance
to influence its nuclear ambitions by getting in on whatever
New Delhi is cooking in its nuclear kitchen.
   The lobbyists argue that change has been in the air for
years and now the Soviet Union's collapse has made it
possible. "It is clear the present system is out of date,"
says Sir Brian Urquhart, an old U.N. hand and former
undersecretary for peacekeeping. He cautions, though, that
the new Security Council must also have what the old Security
Council has finally achieved: "effectiveness."
   Sir Brian hits the nail on the head there. John Bolton,
State Department assistant secretary for international
organization affairs makes a similar point: "We are wary of
any change in the Council just now, when it's begun to work."
A blunter colleague adds: "If it ain't broke, don't fix it."
   It is worth remembering here that if Berlin or Korea's DMZ
were battlefields of the Cold War, so was the Security
Council, where the Soviet-U.S. standoff for decades locked
the United Nations into the status of an irrelevant,
ideological debating club. What the new peacekeeping missions
show is that, for the first time in its history, the Security
Council works.
   There are other arguments against change. One is sheer
practicality: Changing the Security Council makeup involves
amending the U.N. charter, a measure that requires the
ratification of all permanent members. What would the world
have to offer France to make it step aside for Germany, or,
as some suggest, for a shared EC seat? More important, it is
worth envisioning what would happen if the Security Council
did, for the sake of regionalism alone, "empower" a country
like Brazil. Brazil's ambassador pooh-poohs the possibility,
but it is possible that the North-South hostility already
dogging the U.N.'s administrative corridors would find
violent articulation in the organization's most important
body. The grand North-South standoff could replace the
East-West one.
   This is not to argue there's no room for reform at the
U.N. A starting point for this might be a slimming program
for the secretariat, which over the years has grown into a
30,000-headed beast. Or, how about more respect from the
U.N.'s agencies for the fact that South Africa, heretofore a
pariah state, is rooting out apartheid? There's even room for
reform of the Security Council, for example, in the case of
Israel. The Security Council's rotating spots are controlled
by powerful regional groups. Because none of those groups is
willing to include Israel, that nation never gets to enjoy
even its nonpermanent turn on the Security Council. Start
with items like this one, then bring on the big changes --
later.
   ---
   Miss Shlaes is deputy features editor of the Journal's
editorial page.