Technology:
   U.S. Bioscience Stake Is Offered for Sale
   By Marion Merrell, Trading Is Halted
   ----
   By James C. Hyatt and Phillip E. Nalbone
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
Later, Robert Kriebel, U.S. Bioscience senior vice
president for finance, said the company expects to have a
statement after an FDA committee meeting today. He added that
"we expect there will be an orderly disposal" of the shares
held by Marion Merrell Dow, a Kansas City, Mo.,
pharmaceutical company about 70% controlled by Dow Chemical
Co.
   A Marion Merrell spokesman said the timing of the
announced sale was "not related" to today's review by an FDA
advisory committee of U.S. Bioscience's drug Ethyol. The
company seeks approval of the drug as a protective agent
against the serious toxicities associated with certain
chemotherapy agents in cancer patients.
   In a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission,
Marion said it asked U.S. Bioscience in a Jan. 24 letter to
register all of Marion's 6,601,950 shares so they can be sold
in an underwriting. At yesterday's price, the holding would
be worth about $218 million.
   In a statement, Marion Merrell said it made the decision,
"as part of its normal ongoing review of strategic
investments," that a "strategic consolidation" with U.S.
Bioscience "is no longer feasible." It said the funds "should
be made available for other purposes."
   The proposed sale will be a highly profitable one for
Marion Merrell; Marion Laboratories Inc. bought its U.S.
Bioscience stake for $15 million in 1989, prior to its merger
with Merrell Dow Pharmaceuticals Inc. U.S. Bioscience's stock
price has skyrocketed in recent months after the FDA put
Ethyol on a "fast track" drug approval system. Trading in the
mid-$30 range last fall, the shares soared to a high of
$87.25 a share in early January, but has fallen back
somewhat. After a two-for-one stock split in mid-January, the
stock has been trading in the mid-$30 range again.
   The Marion Merrell Dow filing also opens up speculation
about U.S. Healthcare Inc., which has a stake about the same
size as Marion's and has right of first refusal on the Marion
stake. U.S. Healthcare created U.S. Bioscience in a 1987
spin-off.
   Costas Nicolaides, executive vice president and chief
financial officer of U.S. Healthcare in Blue Bell, Pa., said,
"We just received the (Marion Merrell) statement late
(Wednesday) and are reviewing the agreement" regarding the
Marion Merrell stake. He said the company's president,
Leonard Abramson, is traveling, and U.S. Healthcare probably
wouldn't make any announcement regarding Marion Merrell
before next week.
   The stock runup is tied to prospects for the drug which
will be reviewed today. Alex. Brown  Sons Inc. biotechnology
analyst David S. Webber thinks the drug could generate at
least $500 million a year in world-wide revenue by 1995. And
Patricia Padgett Lea, pharmaceutical analyst at Vector
Securities International, says the stock price already
discounts a narrow label. So if the committee today sanctions
a fairly broad label, "the stock can take quite a pop."
   On the other hand, Kidder Peabody  Co. analyst Robert
Kupor yesterday morning downgraded his investment rating on
U.S. Bioscience to "a highly cautionary hold" from a "buy"
recommendation. He said he doesn't think Ethyol is a
"blockbuster drug" and that it is likely to get a narrow
initial label recommendation from the FDA advisory panel
today. He thinks the drug will generate U.S. sales of about
$105 million in 1995.
   The quick panel review -- just four months after the
company filed the new drug application-might result in
marketing approval of the product six to nine months earlier
than previously expected. Moreover, France has agreed to
sponsor an application to market Ethyol in European Community
countries, and U.S. Bioscience Chairman and Chief Executive
Philip S. Schein has said the company hopes to begin European
sales this year.
   ---
   James P. Miller in Chicago contributed to this article.