Heard on the Street:
   Auto Stocks' Climb Is Linked to Hopes for Cut
   In Japanese Exports, Easing Price Competition
   ----
   By Neal Templin
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Clearly, Wall Street is betting that lower interest rates
and an economic rebound will spur car sales. But there's more
going on here. Many analysts believe that President Bush, who
this week will troop through Tokyo with auto industry and
other executives in tow, will persuade Japanese auto makers
to reduce exports to the U.S. They also figure that GM's
impending plant closings will reduce the brutal price
competition in the car business.
   So, even though the Big Three had losses of an estimated
record of $6 billion among them last year, the recent
developments have converted a longtime bear on Detroit:
veteran auto analyst Ronald Glantz of Dean Witter Reynolds.
"I've had these stocks on my `sell' list for the last 4 1/2
years," says Mr. Glantz. But that stance changed abruptly
Thursday, when Mr. Glantz issued a "buy" recommendation on
GM, and a less aggressive "buy/hold" on Ford and Chrysler.
   Mr. Glantz is convinced that this week's Tokyo summit
already has produced trade concessions for Detroit. "There's
no way the president of the U.S. is going to schedule a trade
mission to discuss concessions without those concessions
being agreed to beforehand," declares Mr. Glantz, who
predicts a public announcement within two weeks.
   Auto stocks also have another thing going for them:
bargain-hunting by investors. "Portfolio managers are looking
around for groups that haven't participated in the market
rally," Mr. Glantz declares. "At a time when the stock market
is setting all sorts of records, the auto stocks are still
close to their lows for the past decade."
   Such reasoning is echoed by nearly every auto analyst on
Wall Street. "There was a 250-point jump in the Dow
industrials and {the auto stocks} were virtually flat," says
analyst Scott Merlis of Morgan Stanley. "So they have a lot
of catching up to do."
   The outcome of Mr. Bush's trade mission isn't clear. While
the president maintains that he just wants to open Japan's
markets to U.S. companies, "the reality is that American cars
aren't competitive in the Japanese market," says analyst
Joseph Phillippi of Shearson Lehman Brothers. He and others
say Japan can't slash its $40 billion-plus trade surplus with
the U.S. without reducing exports -- and three-fourths of the
trade imbalance consists of cars or their parts.
   So Wall Street is betting on a dose of old-fashioned
protectionism that, however hurtful to consumers, will be a
boon for Detroit. Kidder Peabody's John V. Kirnan predicts
that Japan's manufacturers, under pressure from their own
government, will soon announce plans to reduce their exports
to the U.S. by 400,000 to 500,000 cars a year from an
estimated 1.7 million units in 1991. This will help the Big
Three increase their market share.
   Meanwhile, the Japanese are expected to seek premium
prices on the cars they do sell. The remodeled 1992 Toyota
Camry has a base price 11.5% higher than the 1991 Camry, and
the new Mitsubishi Montero has a starting price 13.5% higher
than its predecessor. "It's like an invisible quota already
exists," says analyst John Casesa of Wertheim Schroder.
   Each of the Big Three cut its commonstock dividend sharply
last year, and until recently analysts feared further cuts,
or even outright suspensions. But all three U.S. auto makers
have recently boosted their balance sheets by selling new
securities. Now, analysts think Detroit will try to ride out
the recession with current dividends intact.
   The Street is divided on which auto company is the best
buy. Wendy Needham of Smith Barney thinks Chrysler, the most
depressed stock in the Motor City, has the most potential to
appreciate. She has GM and Ford on hold.
   Mr. Casesa's pick is Ford. He figures that Ford's factory
operations are in better shape than those of its cross-town
rivals, and thus the company is best poised to take advantage
of an economic rebound. Mr. Glantz likes GM because it will
"obviously benefit the most" from its own plant closures. And
the fact that GM produces more of its own parts than Ford or
Chrysler gives it more earnings power in an economic
recovery, he contends.
   Right now, GM would be "fairly valued at 38 a share, Ford
at 33 and Chrysler at 15," says Mr. Glantz. Some analysts see
even higher prices a year from now. Mr. Kirnan believes GM
shares will fetch 45 by year end, while Ford will go for 40.