International:
   Japan By-Election
   Further Clouds
   Miyazawa's Future
   ----
   By Christopher J. Chipello
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
In results announced late Sunday night, Koki Hagino, a
candidate running under the banner of the Rengo labor
federation and backed by the Socialist and Democratic
Socialist parties, defeated LDP candidate Nobuo Onodera by
396,532 votes to 393,615, according to Kyodo news service.
   Despite the narrow margin, the loss "has to be a big
shock" to the LDP, said political analyst Takayoshi Miyagawa,
who attributed the results to political scandals and to
farmers' fears that the government is preparing to liberalize
Japan's protected rice market. Mr. Miyagawa said he believes
the LDP poured "three to five times the usual amount of
money" into the campaign. "They pulled out all the stops, and
still they got beat," in a rural prefecture that had been a
stronghold for the ruling party until a Socialist candidate
captured the Upper House seat three years ago amid a previous
round of scandals.
   Coupled with an LDP loss last month in another Upper House
by-election in Nara prefecture, the Miyagi results cast a
pall over the LDP's chances in July. Mr. Miyagawa said LDP
leaders are likely to consider dissolving the Lower House and
holding simultaneous elections for both chambers -- a tactic
that could damp the party's overall losses, given its
traditional strength in the lower chamber.
   Even so, the LDP's position looks ominously similar to
that of three years ago, when the party lost its majority in
the Upper House as voters vented their anger at the
widespread Recruit Co. influence-peddling scandal and a new
consumption tax. Although the LDP's continued Lower House
majority enables it to pass budgetrelated bills, the LDP has
had to work with two moderate opposition parties to win
approval of other legislation.
   Further heavy losses this summer could mean that
center-right coalition will no longer command a majority in
the upper chamber -- a prospect that some analysts now
consider likely. In that event, the conservative,
pro-business LDP would probably be forced to form an
unprecedented coalition in the Upper House with the
Socialists, a leftist party that has been trying to edge
toward the political mainstream.