Your Money Matters:
   Lower Rates Can Undercut a Life Policy's Performance
   ----
   By Karen Slater
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Unfortunately, it wasn't. As interest rates tumbled in
subsequent years, so did the interest paid on the savings
component of Mrs. Berger's policy. As a result, the retired
New York City guidance counselor has had to keep paying
premiums. And Crown Life Insurance Co. of Toronto recently
estimated she will have to stay at it for a total of 12
years.
   "I feel like I was fooled," Mrs. Berger gripes. The
original projection did state that the policy could perform
differently than shown, as a Crown Life spokeswoman notes.
But Mrs. Berger says her insurance agent -- who has since
left the New Jersey firm where he worked -- made the
four-payment plan "sound like it was 99% guaranteed."
   Welcome to the mess at the end of the rainbow that was
dangled before many life insurance buyers in the early and
mid 1980s.
   Lots of "cash value" life insurance policies -- those that
incorporate a savings component as well as a death benefit --
were sold with projections that assumed interest rates on
policy savings would remain at then-current levels. Interest
assumptions are important because earnings within a policy
are used to help pay the basic insurance charges.
   But many buyers didn't comprehend or weren't told they
might have to make additional payments or pay higher premiums
if interest rates fell. "Most people . . . just did not
understand the risk they were taking," says Joseph Belth, an
Indiana University insurance professor.
   Not everyone who bought life insurance when interest rates
were higher needs to be concerned. The decline in interest
rates doesn't affect people with term insurance, policies
that provide a death benefit only.
   Interest rates also have limited impact on people who
bought traditional "whole life" policies with the intention
of paying premiums year after year. If they continue paying
the fixed premium, they are guaranteed to have their coverage
for life. Still, the policy savings they could tap through
loans or by surrendering the policy could be less than
expected.
   But for many other policyholders the impact of lower
interest rates can be substantial. And at least some of them
may not yet realize it. "Some people are going to be in for a
real shock," says Daniel R. Fleming, a Rockville, Md.,
insurance agent.
   Those most affected are policyholders who bought whole
life or any other type of cash-value coverage on a "vanishing
premium" basis. Many of them, like Mrs. Berger, are seeing
their premiums persist or could begin getting insurance bills
again after a hiatus of several years. (Mrs. Berger's
experience is somewhat atypical; more commonly, a
policyholder might have expected to make seven payments and
now be facing 10.)
   There can also be big problems for people who bought
"universal life," a flexible variety of cash-value coverage,
when interest rates were much higher. By opting for universal
life, many of those buyers were able to pay lower premiums
than they would have with whole life. But at those lower
premiums, the policyholders aren't guaranteed that continued
payment will keep the coverage in force for life.
   Chicago insurance agent Frederick H. Stitt says a
worst-case scenario runs something like this: A man who
bought universal life several years ago, at age 60, might
figure his coverage is fully paid for after making the 10
premium payments shown in his original policy projection.
Then, years from now, "when he is 85 or 86 or 87, the company
comes back and says, `You have run out of money.'"
   Making matters even worse, Mr. Stitt says the annual
premium required to resuscitate the policy at that age might
be twice the initial vanished premium.
   The first and best defense against such insurance horror
stories is a good insurance agent who checks clients'
coverage periodically. (Mr. Stitt says he does "annual"
insurance reviews -- but often every two and a half years,
about as often as he gets around to his "annual" physical
exam.)
   Unfortunately, many agents leave the insurance business or
fail to keep up with customers after a sale. "The {financial}
incentive is for agents to sell new policies," notes Harold
D. Skipper Jr., an insurance professor at Georgia State
University. That means many people need to take the
initiative in checking their policies.
   What to do? First, dig out the original policy projection
or "illustration." Then look at the most recent annual
statement from the insurer and see how the growth of the
policy's cash value compares with the projection. "If you are
way under, you have a warning, a red flag," says Chicago
attorney Stuart K. Taussig.
   For an even clearer picture, New York insurance consultant
Glenn S. Daily says policyholders should ask the agent or the
insurance company every few years for an "in-force
illustration." That's a projection of how an existing policy
will perform in the future, based on current interest rates
and other assumptions. For instance, the in-force statement
Mrs. Berger received last November showed the much longer
payment period.
   Don't procrastinate in checking out a policy purchased
when interest rates were higher. A small increase in the
annual payment for universal life coverage may be enough to
avoid a big shortfall later on. And an early warning can make
paying additional premiums on a "vanishing premium" policy
somewhat less painful. People can also talk to the agent
about other options, such as reducing the death benefit.
   People shouldn't rush out to replace policies that haven't
performed as well as projected. The shortfalls typically
reflect market conditions, not policy defects. And "setting
up a new policy is usually more expensive than fixing up an
old one," says Mr. Fleming, the Maryland agent.
   With interest rates so much lower now, there are fewer
potential problems for people buying new policies. But there
clearly are lessons to be learned from other buyers'
misfortunes.
   To gauge the impact of lower interest rates, New York
agent Sam Radin suggests looking at how a policy would
perform assuming an interest rate one or two percentage
points below the current level.
   Buyers also need to recognize that policy projections or
illustrations are only that. Says Mr. Radin: "No policy will
ever perform exactly as illustrated. There are just too many
variables."