How the Japanese Really See Us
   ----
   By George Fields
A member of the old guard Japanese political
establishment, Mr. Sakurauchi has the same hang-up about
Japan's homogeneity as much of his political generation.
Nothing has changed for him since Prime Minister Yasuhiro
Nakasone had to apologize for saying in 1986 that "America
has these minority groups so that on the average, American
{intellectual} level is low," or since Michio Watanabe, now
foreign minister, said in 1988 that black Americans didn't
care about running out on their debts.
   Do Mr. Sakurauchi's remarks reflect Japanese thinking in
general? In many important ways, they do not.
   Unlike Mr. Sakurauchi and many other politicians, Japanese
businessmen are increasingly aware of the interdependency
among cultures. As they set up plants in Southeast Asia,
Europe and the Americas, they have had to learn to come to
terms with different societies. Mr. Sakurauchi doesn't have
to do that; for, say, Akio Morita of Sony, it is essential.
After Mr. Sakurauchi's remarks last week Japanese business
leaders with operations in the U.S. scrambled to the defense
of the American worker.
   In recent years, Japanese business has consistently taken
the stance that worker productivity is a matter of management
and not of labor. An authority on quality circles, Hajime
Karatsu of Tokai University, has shown cases to Japanese
audiences where U.S. worker productivity improved through
production management. American business is familiar with Mr.
Morita's charge that U.S. industry is handicapped by
shortsighted management, a point of view that can be debated
without a sense of outrage, as it concerns strategies and not
people. Similarly, when Japanese criticize the high salaries
of many American chief executives, they direct their
criticism at management practices, not at the worker.
   Where do Japanese consumers stand? Well, they bought $53
billion in U.S. goods in 1991. On the whole, they are
concerned with the quality and the image of the product, not
its provenance. They are no different than most consumers in
that they may buy perfume because it is French, leather
because it is Italian or silk because it is Chinese. National
stereotypes do play a role in affecting product perceptions,
and it is true that in some fields U.S. products are seen as
inferior.
   Americans are perceived in Japan as carefree and casual in
their approach to work and therefore not suited to products
that require meticulous workmanship. A cartoon in Saturday's
Asahi Shimbun, for example, shows a little old lady doing her
washing in the old-fashioned way, with a washboard. She is
sandwiched between two sumo wrestlers with washing-machine
bodies, one a large African-American and the other a much
smaller Japanese. Under the heading, "Which washing machine
to choose?" she says of the American version, "This one looks
powerful and sturdy" and of the Japanese, "This one seems
handy and skillful." Then there's the soft-drink commercial
that shows a group of jovial American workers taking it easy
on a building site. As soon as they consume the Japanese
drink, they are galvanized into action.
   Such examples do display a streak of cultural
stereotyping, but that is also true of the way Japanese are
portrayed in U.S. advertising. The larger point is that
American marketers can and do develop brands that transcend
national identities. Coca-Cola, Schick, Gillette, Contac,
Vicks, McDonald's, Kentucky Fried Chicken, Levi's, Disney,
Monsanto, Amway, Avon and Estee Lauder hold leading positions
in the Japanese market. The fact that the products are
American is relevant mainly to trade number crunchers; to the
consumer, the point is that they are high-quality and good
value. In this sense, Mr. Bush was counterproductive in
drawing so much attention to U.S. cars, which have failed in
Japan and are not representative of the American business
experience here.
   In many profound ways, Japanese behavior is converging
with that of other developed societies. Mr. Sakurauchi may be
absorbed in thoughts of Japanese uniqueness, but larger
social forces are bending the Japanese toward other norms.
   Take the attitude toward work. The Japanese know that they
work longer hours than most, and they are beginning to
question this work ethic. The word "karoshi", meaning death
from excessive work, has entered the vernacular and has
become a major social issue, raised in particular by Japanese
women who challenge the right of corporations to work their
husbands to death.
   Mr. Morita of Sony wrote in the current issue of Bungei
Shunju magazine that Japan should consider changing its work
practices. He argues that the Japanese economic structure
must move more toward the American and European models,
including shorter hours and environmental protection.
   He does not make the case on the grounds of altruism; his
argument is that Japan derives a competitive advantage from
its work culture and that it should modify it to world
standards to stall any protectionist backlash.
   Some politicians and down-and-out business leaders on both
sides of the Pacific may be out of step with the trend toward
globalization, but most businessmen and consumers are
inexorably moving toward common values and rules of conduct.
The careless utterances of the Iacoccas and the Sakurauchis
should not be allowed to overwhelm this simple truth.
   ---
   Mr. Fields is chairman of ASI Market Research Japan. His
most recent book, "Tono to Jyuyaku" ("The Lord and His
Minions"), deals with Japanese management in a global
community.