What's News --
   World-Wide
Pennsylvania's law requires that minors seeking an
abortion receive their parents' permission and that women
notify their husbands.
   ---
   THE SECURITY COUNCIL URGED Libya to turn over bombing
suspects.
   At the urging of the U.S., the U.N. body unanimously
adopted a resolution imploring Libya to respond to the
demands of U.S., British and French courts that are seeking
to put on trial Libyan agents charged with blowing up a Pan
Am jet in 1988 and a French airliner in 1989. The resolution
doesn't specifically demand that Libya extradite the suspects
for trial, but its language clearly represents a call for
such a step.
   If Tripoli fails to comply, the U.S. and its allies intend
to push for a followup resolution that would impose economic
sanctions on Libya.
   ---
   The Russian government is mapping draconian cuts in its
military budget this year as part of Yeltsin's economic
program, according to documents obtained by Reuters news
agency. Arms purchases would be slashed to an eighth of last
year's levels and 1.1 million people might lose their jobs in
military industries, the documents said.
                                                                                                       

   Moscow officials acknowledged that an intercontinental
ballistic missile was testfired in Kazakhstan last month, but
the new commonwealth's defense officials characterized the
launch as routine.
   ---
   Bush proposed a $600 million increase in funding for the
Head Start program in order to allow 157,000 more poor
children to attend preschool. But Democrats in Congress,
contending the president's plan isn't enough, said they want
to boost the Head Start budget by $1 billion a year for five
years.
                                                                                                       

   The Senate opened debate on an education reform bill.
Democrats and Republicans clashed over a Bush proposal to
give poor parents tax credits to help pay for the school of
their choice-public or private.
   ---
   Alabama researchers found that a diet low in one of the B
vitamins makes a woman more vulnerable to the power of a
common virus to cause cervical cancer.
   ---
   The Israeli army announced it is beefing up its forces in
the occupied West Bank by 20%, adding more regular soldiers
and special units to halt a wave of ambushes aimed at Jewish
settlers. Separately, a spokesman for the settlers said their
numbers could double in a year even if Israel bows to U.S.
pressure to stop building new settlements.
   ---
   Gov. Florio signed a welfare reform measure that will make
New Jersey the only state to deny additional benefits to
women who have more children. Opponents vowed to fight the
legislation in court, charging that it unfairly penalizes
children.
   ---
   Black Americans are suffering from "a deep economic
depression," and neither Bush nor his Democratic challengers
have come up with adequate proposals to address the problem,
the National Urban League declared. The civil rights group
said black families earn about 60% of what white families
earn, down from 65% in 1970.
   ---
   The U.S. condemned Cuba's execution of a Miami-based
right-wing exile and said Havana's crackdown on political
opponents "betrays the Cuban government's own fear of
dissent." Eduardo Diaz Betancourt, convicted of sabotage and
terrorism, was executed by a firing squad Monday.
   ---
   Baker emphasized that a humanitarian aid conference
opening today in Washington should send "a message of hope"
to former Soviet republics. The secretary of state last month
proposed the meeting, which will be attended by foreign
ministers and other officials from 47 countries.
   ---
   Congo's prime minister emerged from hiding and appealed
for calm in the African nation. Andre Milongo, who went into
seclusion Monday after mutinous soldiers demanded his
dismissal, met with his cabinet as thousands of protesters
rallied in defiance of an army ban on demonstrations.
Soldiers still control broadcast facilities.