Going Global With Mutual Funds --
   Choosing the Best Global Fund For You:
   Experts Offer Some Winning Strategies
   ----
   By Jonathan Clements
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
NEW YORK -- If you think you get a lot of choice at
Baskin-Robbins, try picking an international stock fund.
   These funds use a bewildering array of stock-picking
strategies and, in any one year, they tend to generate wildly
different results.
   How come? The manager of a U.S. stock fund has just one
way to beat the competition, by making better stock picks.
But an international stock fund manager has three different
ways to add value: by picking countries, by picking
currencies and by picking stocks. In each of these three
areas, international funds employ sharply divergent
strategies.
   Take currencies. In any particular year, currency zigzags
can mean big gains -- or big losses -- for foreign stock
funds. Some funds use hedging techniques, figuring that this
will limit their losses in periods when a strengthening
dollar is threatening to slash the value of foreign stocks
for U.S. holders.
   "We have a long-term view that the dollar is in a long
decline against foreign currencies," says Martin Wade,
president of T. Rowe Price Associates' five foreign-stock
funds. "But if we think the dollar is in a period of revival
against foreign currencies, we do hedge."
   Other funds counter that it is impossible to consistently
guess the direction of exchange rates, so they avoid hedging
altogether. "We've done a lot of work to try to find people
who can accurately predict currency movements over the long
term," says Mark Holowesko, director of equity research for
Templeton, Galbraith  Hansberger. "We've never found anybody
who could do a good job through more than one currency
cycle."
   Many foreign stock funds concentrate their stock picks in
countries they deem attractive, meanwhile ignoring markets
that seem overvalued. Morningstar Mutual Funds, a Chicago
newsletter, calculates that the average international fund
has just 21% of its assets in Japan. That compares with a 48%
market weighting for Japan within the Morgan Stanley Capital
International index that tracks the combined stock-market
performance of Europe, Australia and the Far East.
   International funds also tend to favor larger-company
stocks, in part because these stocks are easier to sell
should a fund decide to quickly change its country
allocations.
   With international funds using such a wide variety of
investment styles, how should investors go about picking
among these funds? Here are five strategies suggested by
mutual fund experts:
                                                                                                       

   Stick with big players. Lipper Analytical Services
calculates that two-thirds of mutual fund investors' foreign
stock money is managed by six major fund groups: American
Funds Group, G.T. Global Financial Services, T. Rowe Price,
Scudder Stevens  Clark, Templeton and Vanguard Group.
   With the exception of Vanguard, which uses outside
investment advisers for its two large international funds,
these fund groups all have a global network of analysts. None
of these groups would be a bad choice for fund investors,
says Don Phillips, publisher of Morningstar Mutual Funds.
"These groups are well-established internationally and you
can find an awful lot of good choices among them," he says.
   But Mr. Phillips notes that a few of the better-performing
international funds are found outside of these large
complexes. Among them: Harbor International Fund and Ivy
International Fund, both managed by Hakan Castegren. The Ivy
fund charges a commission and is sold through brokers, while
Harbor is a no-load fund distributed by HCA Securities of
Toledo, Ohio.
                                                                                                       

   Combine funds. Because international fund performance
varies so widely, some investment advisers suggest combining
different types of funds. That way, you might own one fund
that currency hedges and one fund that doesn't, or you might
buy one fund that specializes in growth stocks and another
one that invests in "value" stocks that are cheap relative to
assets or current earnings. Such a strategy doesn't
necessarily involve forking over a lot of money. Some
international funds demand a minimum initial investment of
only $1,000 or even less.
   When combining different funds, a favorite strategy is to
buy both a large-company fund and a small-company fund, such
as those that invest in emerging markets.
   Many of the well-known international funds, like T. Rowe
Price International Stock Fund and Scudder International
Fund, stick mostly with large-company stocks. "These firms
manage a ton of money, so liquidity is very important to
them," says Kenneth Gregory, editor of L/G No-Load Fund
Analyst, a San Francisco newsletter.
   But there's a growing group of smallstock specialty funds,
like T. Rowe Price International Discovery Fund and
Montgomery Emerging Markets Fund, which have significant
exposure to the world's developing stock markets. Mr. Gregory
thinks that, by investing in one of these funds, investors
can boost their returns.
                                                                                                       

   Go regional. Donal Botkin, a senior vice president with
SEI Capital Resources, suggests combining an international
fund that makes big country bets with two regional funds, one
for Europe and the other for the Pacific region.
   The idea is to use the regional funds to get exposure to
smaller, more aggressive companies around the world. That
way, you not only complement the large companies that tend to
be bought by truly international fund managers, you also have
a hedge in case the international manager goes badly wrong
with his country bets.
   "Regional managers are going to be invested in local
markets most of the time, whereas an international manager
may be out of those markets totally," says Mr. Botkin.
Regional funds "lock in the broad exposure to different
regions."
   Europe and Asia specialty funds are offered by Dean
Witter, Fidelity Investments, Financial Funds, G.T. Global,
Merrill Lynch, T. Rowe Price and Putnam Cos.
                                                                                                       

   Consider indexing. Vanguard Group offers two international
index funds, one for European stocks and the other for
Pacific region stocks. Combined together in the right
proportions, the two index funds are designed to replicate
the performance of Morgan Stanley's Europe, Australia and Far
East index.
   George Sauter, who oversees Vanguard's international index
funds, notes that mutual fund investing involves two major
ongoing costs, trading costs and management costs. "In the
international area, those two costs are extremely high," he
says. He thinks index funds, which have very low turnover and
minimal management costs, should outperform the average fund
"because of the cost advantage."
                                                                                                       

   Try publicly traded funds. For those who like their funds
at bargain prices, there are three publicly traded funds with
world-wide stock exposure, Clemente Global Growth Fund,
Pacific European Growth Fund and Worldwide Value Fund. All
three are so-called closed-end funds and their
exchange-traded shares can currently be bought for less than
their per-share portfolio value.
   "If you're interested in diversifying internationally, all
three of them are probably a better deal" than a regular
mutual fund, says Ron Olin, a closed-end fund specialist with
Houston's Deep Discount Advisors.