Media:
   Cable-TV Firms' Higher-Priced `Tiers'
   Bring Cries of Outrage From Consumers
   ----
   By Mark Robichaux
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The practice of "tiering" wasn't prevalent in late 1989,
when Congress first threatened to impose new regulations on
cable, just three years after it had largely deregulated the
industry. But tiering had spread to almost 60% of all cable
subscribers by the middle of last year. It is likely to
expand even further this year.
   Consumer groups call it a shell game that has let cable
companies blithely slap on unfair rate increases. In the past
few months alone, the cable system in Los Angeles imposed a
12% increase on its most popular package, and the system here
in Manhattan similarly set a 10% increase. Last March, Time
Warner Inc.'s Brooklyn system formed a new tier that included
MTV and CNN; nine months later, it raised the charge for the
tier by 34%.
   "Cash flow is the name of the game for these companies,"
says lawyer Nicholas Miller, who represents several cities in
disputes with cable systems. "Their main concern is how do we
frustrate, confuse, divide or slow down an attempt to
regulate the rates."
   Almost all of the nation's biggest cable companies now use
tiering. They maintain that it more fairly spreads the costs
of various channels among the viewers who really want them,
that it lets them lower the price of pared-down basic cable
and reach viewers who merely want better reception and the
low-income people who otherwise couldn't afford cable.
Criticism of tiering "is pure cable-bashing that is totally
unjustified," says Richard Aurelio, president of Time
Warner's New York cable group.
   Many cable operators, however, don't tell customers that a
cheaper basic option is available. They simply switch
customers over to the more expensive tiers through a
"negative option" that requires subscribers to go out of
their way to reject the change. In some cases, customers are
penalized for switching to the lower-priced tier by having to
pay an extra one-time charge.
   Only a sliver of cable subscribers on tiered systems --
usually well under 10% -- actually buys the redefined narrow
basic service. When federal investigators randomly called
systems and posed as customers, they found that nine leading
companies offering tiers didn't even acknowledge the
existence of the lowest-priced basic tier, according to a
recent report from the General Accounting Office. (Calls by a
reporter to Time Warner systems in Manhattan and Brooklyn
produced similar results.)
   "The game for cable operators is to tell regulators that
this is a separate and optional tier," says Joseph Van Eaton,
a cable lawyer for several cities. "But they're telling
subscribers that expanded tiers are part of basic service."
   Despite cable operators' claims to the contrary, the price
structure behind tiering often has little basis in reality,
in terms of demand for the channels and operators' costs. For
example, Time Warner's Brooklyn-Queens cable group previously
charged $20.90 for 58 channels. Last March it split the dial
into 24 channels for basic ($14.95) and a tier of 34 popular
channels for an extra $5.95. Then it tacked on an extra $2.05
for the second tier last month, a 34% increase. Yet the tier
probably costs the company only $3.52 to begin with, based on
an average monthly cost of 16 cents a channel. (That average
cost comes from Paul Kagan Associates, a media research
concern; Time Warner's cable group declines to discuss
specifics of its channel prices.)
   Charging an extra $8 for the tier is "totally
unjustified," asserts Bill Squadron, who oversees New York
City cable systems as the city's telecommunications
commissioner. "These companies are protecting unbelievably
favorable market conditions -- no competition and no
regulation." Time Warner's Mr. Aurelio dismisses the charge
as unreasonable.
   Just four years ago, cable companies were doing the
reverse of tiering. When Congress freed cable from rate
regulation by local governments, systems folded all channels
and rates into one basic offering. Then they levied startling
and aggressive price increases. Cable bills shot up 61% from
December 1986 to July 1991.
   Cable operators said the jump was needed to make up for
years of artificially low rates, when local governments had
refused to grant adequate fee increases. But a Justice
Department report found that only about half of the rate rise
was due to higher costs.
   As criticism intensified, Congress began weighing new
regulation but got nowhere. A bigger threat came from the
Federal Communications Commission. In January 1990, the FCC
announced a proposal that would vastly increase the number of
communities allowed to ride herd on basic cable rates.
   When Congress deregulated cable in 1987, it let a handful
of communities -- those that had fewer than three broadcast
stations in their local markets -- continue to regulate local
cable rates. The new FCC rule proposed to let towns with
fewer than six stations control cable rates, affecting 61% of
all cable systems and covering 34% of all cable subscribers
in the U.S.
   But the FCC didn't pass the new rule until last July --
and by that time tiering had taken hold. The FCC rule also
had a major loophole: It let local governments control only
basic rates.
   "It tends to make a mockery of the process," says Bill
Johnson, deputy chief of the mass-media bureau of the FCC.
"It's annoying to the consumer because what they want isn't
regulated by the city."
   The new FCC rule gave Laredo, Texas, new authority to
control local cable rates. But in June 1990 the local cable
company, Paragon Cable, split its single package of 34
channels into a basic offering of 11 and a second tier of 23
channels. Subscribers who signed up for the expanded basic
tier had to pay the system $15 each to change to the more
limited basic service.
   Three months later, the system raised the price of the
second tier by 30%, from $5 to $6.50. It tacked another $2
increase on one year after that. The end result: In 15 months
after Paragon imposed the tiered approach, Laredo subscribers
were paying 21% more for the same 34 channels ($20.50 a
month, compared with $17 when the tier was adopted in June
1990).
   Paragon, a subsidiary of Kblcom Inc. in Houston, also
lowered the price of its 11-channel basic offering to $7.95 a
month from $12 last July, but only a small number of
subscribers were affected.
   Some cities are trying to fight the cable companies by
seeking the right to regulate the extra tier of "expanded
basic." The city of Gillette, Wyo., is in a court battle with
Tele-Communications Inc., the nation's largest cable
operator.
   In December 1989, Tele-Communications retiered its
channels and automatically switched customers to the expanded
service. It also began charging extra for items such as
converter boxes and cable guides. By May 1990, a customer
would have had to pay $22.20 for the same package that had
cost $16.74 five months earlier, a jolting 33% increase.
   Outraged, the city passed an ordinance that set the price
for basic service at $12.80 and set expanded basic at $13.20.
TeleCommunications refused to lower the price, and the city
filed suit. In November, a federal judge ruled that the city
had the authority to set only "basic rates." Now Gillette is
pursuing a second argument, that TCI's "expanded basic" tier
isn't really a distinct and separate product from basic
service. (TCI officials declined to comment on the situation
in Gillette.)
   Tiering has also triggered resentment among newer cable
channels, which fear a loss of distribution if they are
placed on tiers with pay services.
   Bills now in Congress address tiering, but if Congress
regulates every level of service, "it will freeze the
development of new programming," contends Steve Effros,
president of the Community Antenna Television Association, a
cable trade group. He says proposed laws aimed at tiers would
put artificial price caps on channels. "We are finding our
price levels now," he says.