Salomon's Phibro
   Will Take Over
   Metal Operations
   ----
   By Michael Siconolfi
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The metals transfer to Phibro, a unit of Salomon Inc.,
comes more than a year after Salomon Brothers absorbed the
precious metal operations of Philipp Brothers Inc., which was
dismantled in 1990 after a string of losses. Salomon held
$150 million in precious metals assets as of Sept. 30.
   Phibro also said it plans to absorb Salomon's London
metals business, when it receives regulatory approval. The
precious metals group trades gold, silver and platinum.
   The transfer is an attempt "to capitalize on the synergies
that exist within Phibro's world-wide energy business and in
particular in the area of commodity derivatives," said Andrew
J. Hall, Phibro chairman, president and chief executive
officer.
   Phibro, the world's largest oil-trading company and a big
refiner, will operate the business through a division called
Phibro Energy Metals; it will be run by Phibro executives
Andrew Hecht and James DiPiazza.
   The cooling of talks between Phibro and Nigerian National
Petroleum Corp. came after periodic discussions about the
possible sale of a Phibro stake, held since 1988. Talks had
intensified late last year after Phibro created a separate
division to handle its domestic oil refining, crude oil
gathering and liquified-petroleum gas trading businesses.
   But a recent cabinet reshuffle in Nigeria has thrown the
future of Nigeria's oil industry and that of its energy
minister into question, people familiar with Phibro said.
   A Phibro sale offers an opportunity for Nigeria to enter
the U.S. refining and marketing business. And Phibro still
appears serious about spinning off assets amid weak earnings
last year.
   Through September, Phibro reported pretax profit of just
$26 million, down sharply from a record $430 million in the
year-earlier period. Phibro recently said it anticipates a
pretax loss of $60 million in 1991's fourth quarter, largely
stemming from a charge reflecting plunging oil prices.