Heard on the Street:
   Finding Bargains in a Rich Stock Market
   ----
   By John R. Dorfman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
That's not too surprising. The Greenspan rally is one
month old. The Gulf War bull market is 15 months old. And
most stock indexes hit record highs last week.
   But elevated stock prices don't discourage the bargain
hunters from scouring the market for companies with decent
growth prospects at prices that are reasonable compared with
per-share earnings, dividends or other yardsticks.
   Here's a look at the stocks some managers are calling
bargains now:
   Energy producers. "Energy and utilities" are the ticket,
says W. Anthony Hitschler, president and chief investment
officer at Brandywine Asset Management in Wilmington, Del.
The firm owns some Amerada Hess, Texaco, Royal Dutch/Shell,
Exxon, Phillips Petroleum and Atlantic Richfield. "Just take
Arco," Mr. Hitschler says. "It has dramatically
underperformed the market over the past 12 months;" pays a 5%
dividend, compared with less than 3% for the market; and
sells for 13 times reported earnings, well below the market's
23 times.
   Lois Burleigh, director of equity investments at ASB
Capital Management in Washington, has been buying Amoco and
Arco, and lately has been accumulating British Petroleum.
   Oilfield services. Ms. Burleigh also likes oil-service
stocks, such as Halliburton, Baker Hughes, Dresser, Rowan and
Helmerich  Payne. Mr. Hitschler favors "some of the natural
gas distributors and pipelines" but declines to name them
because he's still buying shares.
   What has been keeping the oils and oil-service stocks
down? Some investors fear that Kuwait and Iraq will resume
oil production in quantity while Saudi Arabia won't cut
output much. Could be, says Mr. Hitschler, but oil stocks
have lagged so badly that "we feel there's more opportunity
than risk."
   Ms. Burleigh goes a step further: "I think you will see
Saudi Arabia cut back production," she says. "Saudi Arabia
doesn't want the price {now around $18 a barrel} to go too
high, but they also don't want to see it go through the
floor."
   Utilities. Mr. Hitschler's favorite is the telephone
company Bell Atlantic. The stock "really has done nothing for
the last 12 months," he says, and it boasts a 5.3% yield.
Acquisitions in the cellular area have hampered earnings near
term, but will boost them long term, he argues.
   Ms. Burleigh favors Bell Atlantic, Nynex and Pacific
Telesis. These stocks "have underperformed because of
concerns about competition, which I think are overblown," she
says. "They're a value at these levels, and will probably
outperform this year."
   Geraldine Weiss, author of the book "Dividends Don't Lie"
and editor of Investment Quality Trends in La Jolla, Calif.,
has a short list of undervalued stocks that's peppered with
utilities. Among them are Allegheny Power System, American
Electric Power, Cincinnati Gas  Electric, Commonwealth
Edison, Public Service of Colorado, Public Service Enterprise
Group and Texas Utilities.
   Growth cyclicals. New York money manager Alan Bond,
president of Bond, Procope Capital Management, says he's
considering some stocks that rise and fall with the economy
but tend to achieve rising earnings over the long haul. These
include Bandag, Cooper Tire  Rubber, Illinois Tool Works and
Wausau Paper Mills. He hasn't bought any of them yet,
however, and fears it may be too late to buy Bandag, which
has surged.
   Grab bag. Tom Jackson, who manages $1.9 billion at
Prudential Securities Equity Management Associates in Newark,
N.J., seeks out stocks that are cheap compared with book
value (corporate assets minus liabilities per share). "I love
Digital Equipment," he says. Among his other big holdings are
ITT, Kmart, property/casualty insurer Safeco, United
Telecommunications and International Business Machines.
   Charles Will, a portfolio manager in Louisville, Ky., says
he's drawn towards American Express, New York Times and Dow
Jones, which publishes this newspaper. But he won't buy any
of the three now because he expects the overall market to
tumble, pulling down all stocks, whether they are cheap or
dear.
   One manager with an outstanding track record, who declined
to be named, is keeping close tabs on the big drug stocks.
They're far from bargains yet, he says, but they have been
under heavy selling pressure for a week and may enter bargain
territory if the trend continues.
   Some stocks on Ms. Weiss's undervalued list are drug
distributor Bergen Brunswig, pen maker A.T. Cross, autoparts
company Echlin, check printer John H. Harland, hospital
operator Humana, IBM, Imperial Chemical Industries of
Britain, the paper-products company James River, Luby's
Cafeterias, ServiceMaster, United Industrial and Zero.
   The accompanying table illustrates a more mechanical
approach to bargain-hunting. Using the Institutional Broker
Estimate System database and Data Window software, a universe
of 1,500 large stocks was screened. The program identified
more than 400 stocks in which analysts expect at least a 15%
earnings gain in the current fiscal year and a similar gain
next year. The list was then narrowed to stocks selling at
less than 15 times actual per-share earnings for the past
fiscal year, and less than 15 times estimated earnings for
the current fiscal year. This pared the roster to the 11
issues in the table.
   Some of these stocks have had stagnant or erratic earnings
in the past. Others have debt-laden balance sheets. Money
managers emphasize that computerized "screens" should be a
starting point for analysis, not a substitute for it.
   In this market, "the pickings really are slim," cautions
Ms. Weiss. In her latest tabulation of 350 blue chip stocks,
she categorized only 8% as undervalued. "That is the smallest
figure we've seen in the 23 years we've been publishing," she
says. "It is smaller than in 1966, 1973 or 1987" -- three
years famous for market tops.
   The smallest percentage of bargains she had previously
found was 10%, back in 1966. The percentage before the crash
in 1987 was 12%. Ms. Weiss's judgments are based mainly on a
stock's dividend yield compared with its own dividend-yield
history. As for the stock market as a whole, Ms. Weiss says
it's generally a screaming bargain when the dividend yield on
the Dow Jones Industrial Average hits 6%, and grossly
overvalued when the yield drops to 3%. Currently, the Dow
Industrials' dividend yield is only 2.87%.
   ---
   What's Still Cheap?
                                                                                                       

   Despite the market's run, these stocks sell for less than
15 times per-share earnings. Yet Wall Street analysts expect
their earnings to grow 15% or better. Of 1500 largest stocks
in the I/B/E/S data base*, fewer than 1% met those criteria,
described further in the story.
                                                                                                       

 Company           Price   P/E Ratio    Description
                                                                                                       

 Banco Central     18 3/4     6         Spanish bank; stock
   S.A.                                 stagnant years

 Burlington        19 1/4    14         Discount outerwear;
   Coat Factory                         flat 1990-91 net
                                                                                                       

 Commodore Int'l   18 3/8    11         Personal computer
                                        maker; erratic stock
                                        hot lately
                                                                                                       

 First Union       32 7/8    13         Charlotte-based
                                        banking company;
                                        1991 earnings up
                                        slightly
                                                                                                       

 INB Financial     38        14         Banking, mortgages,
                                        insurance,
                                        securities; erratic
                                        profits, volatile
                                        stock
                                                                                                       

 Nabors Industries  6 7/8    15         Oil drilling;
                                        profits in upswing
                                                                                                       

 Rohr              22 1/4    11         Aerospace; stock a
                                        dog in recent years,
                                        but profits rising
                                        strongly
                                                                                                       

 Sears, Roebuck    40 7/8    13         Once biggest U.S.
                                        retailer, now 3rd
                                                                                                       

 Service           11        10         Catalog showrooms;
   Merchandise                          huge debt; volatile
                                        stock barely above
                                        1988 high
                                                                                                       

 Std. Federal Bank 16 7/8     8         Midwest thrift;
                                        heavy debt; earnings
                                        rebounding
                                                                                                       

 Union Planners    14 3/4     9         Memphis-based
                                        banker; profits up
                                        but big real-estate
                                        exposure
                                                                                                       

   *Institutional Brokers Estimate System, Data Window