Fujitsu, ICL
   To Consolidate
   Some Businesses
   ---
   Arrangement on Marketing
   Brings U.K. Firm Closer
   To Its Japanese Owner
   ----
   By Laurence Hooper
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
In an interview, ICL's chief executive officer, Peter
Bonfield, emphasized Fujitsu's lack of interference in ICL
affairs. But he also disclosed that ICL will probably use the
Japanese company's technology to plug some remaining gaps in
its product line, most notably in "multimedia" PCs that use
sound and video.
   Mr. Bonfield also confirmed that ICL will launch early
next month a redesigned line of PCs from its Nokia Data
operation, acquired last year from Finland's Oy Nokia.
   In addition, he said ICL will report a revenue increase
for 1991 and that, unlike many of its European rivals, it
continues to be profitable -- "but not as profitable as in
1990." For 1990, when it didn't own Nokia Data, ICL reported
an operating profit of #111.9 million ($196.3 million) on
revenue of #1.61 billion.
   In the consolidation of operations, ICL said it will take
control of Fujitsu's retail-related computer sales in the
U.S., roughly doubling to $350 million the annual U.S.
revenue ICL receives from that area. Despite the revenue
kick, ICL said it will remain the No. 3 maker of in-store
retail systems in both the U.S. and the world, behind
American Telephone  Telegraph Co.'s NCR Corp. and
International Business Machines Corp.
   The U.S. deal includes Fujitsu's sales of automated teller
machines and hand-held terminals, both of which ICL regards
as retail-related. The Japanese company's other U.S.
activities, which are extensive, aren't affected.
   In return, Fujitsu gets ICL's entire marketing operation
in Australia, New Zealand and the South Pacific --
transforming the combined organization, with about $320
million in annual revenue, into one of the region's top three
computer sellers. In both the U.S. and Oceania, the company
that relinquishes control of its former operation will retain
a 20% stake in the combined unit. ICL will also take over
some Fujitsu business in Europe, mainly involving the
marketing of the Japanese company's scientific
supercomputers. The changes will take effect April 1.
Individually, Fujitsu and ICL had ranked about ninth and
10th, respectively.
   Because the value of all these swaps doesn't quite even
out -- ICL's annual revenue will increase by $30 million to
$40 million -- ICL will pay an undisclosed "minor" amount of
money to Fujitsu.
   ICL's relationship with Fujitsu has been the subject of
some rancor from European competitors, who have criticized
the British firm as a sell-out to, and future vehicle of, a
Japanese predator. While Mr. Bonfield rejected such
sentiments as outdated and irrelevant to genuine industry
concerns, he also tried to forestall further criticism.
   "This deal doesn't make {the ICL-Fujitsu link} any more or
less strong," he asserted. "It simply is, and continues to
be, a strong relationship."
   Mr. Bonfield said the March 3 launch of ICL's new line of
PCs and the ongoing integration of Nokia Data will probably
be the company's main events of 1992.