Biotechnology:
   U.S. Pursuit
   Of Gene Patents
   Riles Industry
   ----
   By Hilary Stout
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The fragments are segments of DNA, the substance of which
genes are made. NIH scientists say they have been able to
identify more than 2,300 genes that are "expressed" by brain
cells, 1,900 of which were previously unknown.
   The government's attempt to patent these fragments has
become enormously contentious because the NIH scientists have
only identified them without determining their function. All
genes are blueprints that cells use to make proteins, and
these new-found genes apparently are used by brain cells for
making proteins. What the proteins do in the brain, however,
remains unknown.
   The discovery of human genes can hold the key to
understanding many human diseases and can open the way to new
therapies. Thus, a patent on a gene can be extremely valuable
to a biotechnology company. In the past, patents have been
obtained on genes whose functions were known and which had a
specific medical application.
   But only with recent advances in technology have
scientists been able to isolate genes without knowing the
purpose of the genes. The NIH move is the first attempt to
patent genes of unknown function.
   In a briefing with reporters yesterday, NIH Director
Bernadine Healy said the health institutes will continue
seeking patents on genes as an "interim policy" while the
government and scientists continue to debate whether or not
protection of genes is appropriate. "This is not a statement
that we believe patenting the material is the thing to do now
or in the future," Dr. Healy said.
   NIH officials have repeatedly argued that they are acting
in the industry's best interest. By first obtaining a patent,
the government can then license it to companies to use the
gene to develop a drug or "socially responsible" product. The
patent will give the licensee the security to invest
considerable resources into developing the product, NIH
scientists say, something that wouldn't be possible if they
simply published their findings without patent protection.
   The NIH's filing yesterday reaffirms its previous
application and seeks patents on more than 2,000 additional
discoveries. In addition, an article by the NIH team working
on the gene project, describing their findings, appears in
today's edition of the scientific journal Nature.
   The NIH project takes laboratory-made copies of DNA
fragments and determines the sequence of molecules making up
short stretches of the fragments. Tests show that the
fragments are sections of DNA that a human cell can "read"
and use for making a protein. Thus, the scientists know that
the fragments are either genes or parts of genes, although
the purpose of the gene remains unknown.
   "I can tell you there are mixed feelings in this industry
about the advisability of the government patenting big long
sequences" of DNA fragments, said William Small, executive
director of the Association of Biotechnology Companies, an
organization of more than 270 biotech concerns world-wide.
"There are those that are quite adamantly opposed, and there
are those that are warm about the government doing something
because they feel that if that initiative is taken it will be
easier to transfer to industry because you've already
identified something."
   Several patent lawyers believe the government probably
won't be able to make a case for patent protection on a piece
of a gene whose function is unknown. To patent something, it
has to be unique and have an application.
   "I don't really think it's fair to say these sequences are
discoveries, because discovery involves some measure of
understanding and utility. These {would be} patented because
they're there," said Alan Smith, senior vice president for
research at Genzyme Corp., a Cambridge, Mass., biotechnology
company.
   "These are partial fragments," acknowledged J. Craig
Venter, the NIH scientist who is leading the gene-sequencing
project. "But there is so much information {in them}. There
is more specific information than is in your fingerprint for
identifying you."
   The big concern of scientists isn't the NIH's holding of
the patents, because they believe the federal institute would
be responsible in licensing them to companies. But they're
worried that the granting of the patents could ignite a race
among private concerns and individuals to lay claim to as
many DNA fragments as possible.
   "Someone could set up a lab who knows where, sequence as
many of these things as they could get their hands on, and
sit back, say let's wait for license applications . . . and
charge a lot of money," Mr. Smith said.
   That is entirely possible because the NIH's Dr. Venter
said the technology used to rapidly sequence the DNA
fragments is now widely available. Much of it, he said, is
made by Applied Biosystems Inc. of Foster City, Calif., and
is being used in laboratories around the world. He predicted
that by this Christmas, scientists will have identified
20,000 of the 50,000 to 100,000 human genes believed to
exist.