What's News --
   World-Wide
Prosecutors charged 12 former high Soviet officials --
including a one-time prime minister, defense minister and KGB
chief -- with conspiring to seize power in a failed August
coup.
   ---
   Israel and Jordan began talks in Washington, and Jordan
said Israeli withdrawal from the West Bank wasn't a
precondition for peace. Secretary of State Baker, meanwhile,
sought meetings with top Mideast negotiators. The wounding of
seven Jewish settlers in the West Bank sparked demands in
Israel that the country quit the talks.
   ---
   Iraq acknowledged the existence of a system to enrich
uranium for nuclear bombs, a U.N. inspector said, but Baghdad
claimed that only debris remains. Meanwhile, another U.N.
aide told Reuters that a panel set up to dismantle Iraqi
nuclear, biological and chemical weapons programs is being
severely hampered by a lack of funds.
   ---
   A collective presidency was named to run Algeria for two
years, a day after Muslim fundamentalists denounced as
treason the takeover of the nation by an army-dominated
group. The new five-member Council of State is headed by
ex-dissident Mohamed Boudiaf, who has been in exile for over
27 years, most recently in Morocco.
   ---
   Diabetes researchers reported they had taken a key step
toward developing insulinmaking cells that could be
mass-produced and used in an artificial pancreas for
diabetics.
   ---
   A former top HUD aide was indicted on felony charges of
fraud, conspiracy and submission of false statements to the
agency. Lance Wilson, a former executive assistant to
then-Housing Secretary Pierce, is the first HUD official to
be indicted in the influencepeddling case.
   ---
   Harvard researchers found that men who ate a diet rich in
fiber and low in animal fat had a sharply lower risk of
developing polyps, the benign growths of colon and rectum
tissue that can turn into cancer. The survey of over 7,000
health professionals is the first to link a high-fat diet
directly to polyp growth.
   ---
   Salvadoran negotiators put the final touches on a peace
agreement that chops the military in half, disarms the
insurgents and all but ensures the end of a 12-year-old civil
war. The U.N. Security Council authorized the dispatch of
nearly 1,100 peacekeepers to El Salvador to enforce the
accord, scheduled to be signed tomorrow.
   ---
   Health officials in eastern Canada began the largest
emergency vaccination of Canadians in 37 years to prevent the
spread of several localized outbreaks of meningitis. In
recent weeks, five teen-agers and one adult have died of the
disease in the Ottawa area.
   ---
   Two California condors were freed, marking a milestone in
a $25 million effort to save the giant vultures from
extinction by breeding them in zoos and returning them to the
wild. The release of the birds in Los Padres National Forest,
northwest of Los Angeles, is intended to test whether condors
bred in captivity can survive in the wild.
   ---
   The Supreme Court ruled that people injured by federal
employees may sue the government in some circumstances for
future medical expenses and lost "enjoyment of life." The
unanimous decision was the first written by Justice Thomas
since he joined the court.
   ---
   U.N. peacekeepers arrived in Croatia and Serbia, a day
before the European Community was expected to recognize the
departure of Croatia and Slovenia from the Yugoslav
federation. The 50 unarmed troops will try to bolster a
12-day-old cease-fire. If the truce holds, they will be
followed by a U.N. force of up to 10,000 soldiers.
   ---
   The U.S. urged Cuba to openly declare an end to its
support of insurgencies and to back Central American peace
efforts. The State Department was reacting to reports that
Cuban leader Castro had told a closed conference in Havana
that his government will stop providing military help to
revolutionary movements abroad.