Politics  Policy:
   Justices Agree
   To Review Case
   On Waste Law
   ---
   New York Bases Challenge
   On the 10th Amendment
   Protecting States' Power
   ----
   By Paul M. Barrett
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The Supreme Court's announcement late Friday that it would
hear the case, along with a number of others, was unusual
because it came on the same day as the court's secret Friday
conference; typically such announcements are made the
following Monday. The court indicated that it moved up the
announcement to allow enough time for the cases to be argued
in late March or early April.
   The justices will review the dismissal of a lawsuit
brought by New York and two of its counties, which contended
that federal amendments enacted in 1985 violated the 10th
Amendment's protection of states' political power.
   The law at issue was designed to address what Congress
called a national "crisis" over disposal of radioactive waste
from such sources as nuclear power plants, research
laboratories and hospitals. In 1980, Congress passed
legislation making states responsible for disposing of
lowlevel radioactive waste generated within their borders by
private, state and certain federal producers. In 1985,
Congress amended the law to require that states unable to
dispose of such waste by 1996 nevertheless be forced to take
possession of it and be held liable in court for any damages
caused by failing to do so.
   New York drafted a list of potential dump sites, but
residents in those areas protested. In February 1990, the
state and two of its counties, Cortland and Allegany, which
had been selected as potential dump sites, sued the federal
government. New York charged that the waste-disposal law
violated the 10th Amendment's guarantee that "powers not
delegated to the United States by the Constitution, nor
prohibited by it to the States, are reserved to the States
respectively, or the people."
   A federal district court judge threw out the suit, and a
federal appeals court affirmed that ruling. Both cited the
1985 Supreme Court decision in Garcia vs. San Antonio
Metropolitan Transit Authority, in which the high court ruled
that the judiciary's authority under the 10th Amendment to
review congressional regulation should be limited to the
question of whether the overall political process had
malfunctioned to the detriment of state power. In effect, the
Garcia standard makes it very hard for states to challenge
successfully any federal law regulating such matters as
business, health or safety. (New York vs. U.S.)
   In a separate case, the high court agreed to decide
whether a state may block disposal in one of its counties of
any type of solid waste generated outside the county.
   A growing number of states are trying to stem the influx
of out-of-state waste as landfills around the country reach
their capacities. Companies in the waste-disposal business
have attacked these barriers as unconstitutional interference
with interstate commerce. Three federal courts of appeal in
separate cases have invalidated laws banning importation of
garbage and other waste.
   But the federal appeals court in Cincinnati upheld a
Michigan statute under which counties in that state may block
the disposal of waste from outside the countya law that, in
effect, blocks importation of out-of-state waste. Michigan
contends that its law doesn't interfere with interstate
commerce. The Supreme Court agreed to review the Cincinnati
appeals court's decision. (Fort Gratiot Sanitary Landfill
Inc. vs. Michigan)
   In other action Friday, the high court:
   -- Said it would consider a lower-court ruling that groups
such as the Hare Krishnas may be prevented from soliciting
money in airport terminals but have a right under the First
Amendment to distribute religious literature in such places.
(International Society for Krishna Consciousness Inc. vs.
Lee)
   -- Agreed to decide whether federal agents, acting over
the objection of a foreign government, may arrange for the
kidnapping of a foreign national so that he may be brought to
U.S. to face criminal charges. The defendant in this case,
Humberto Alvarez-Machain, a Mexican, has been implicated in
the torture and murder in 1985 of a U.S. Drug Enforcement
Administration agent in Mexico.
   Mr. Alvarez-Machain was abducted by paid DEA operatives
and delivered to the DEA in the U.S. The Mexican government,
protesting that the abduction violated the Mexican-American
extradition treaty, demanded his return. The federal appeals
court in San Francisco, saying that the U.S. hadn't disputed
the DEA's role, ordered that all charges against Mr.
Alvarez-Machain be dismissed and that he be sent back to
Mexico. The U.S. appealed the decision. (U.S. vs.
Alvarez-Machain)