International:
   Russian Project
   Winners To Be
   Re-Examined
   ----
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
A consortium of Mitsui  Co. of Japan, Marathon Oil Co.
and McDermott International Inc. of the U.S. had been chosen
in late January among several contenders to conduct
feasibility studies of hydrocarbon deposits off the Northern
Pacific island in the largest industrial project with the
newly independent Russia.
   A Mitsui spokesman said the company had understood the
awarding of the tender in January by the original committee
was the final one, and it doesn't know the purpose and
intention of the new committee.
   If the feasibility study is successful, it could lead to a
development project valued at between $8 billion to $16
billion.
   "We don't know if the new committee will just examine the
fairness of the original selection process or try to do the
selection itself all over again," he said.
   Japanese news reports suggest that the creation of the new
committee is to bridge the difference between the local and
central governments over the issue.
   Russian and Sakhalin officials couldn't be reached for
comment on the re-examination committee.
   The members of the new committee will include a
high-ranking member of the Supreme Council, as well as
politicians representing Sakhalin. The original selection
committee was headed by the Russian Minister of Ecology and
Natural Resources, Viktor Danilov-Danilian, and the Sakhalin
governor, Valentin Fyodorov.
   After the winners were announced in January, the Sakhalin
governor was reported to have resigned from the selection
committee, angered by the result. He had publicly said he
wanted the consortium of the U.S.'s Exxon Corp. and Japan's
Sakhalin Oil Development Co. to win.
   Mr. Fyodorov's government had told the participants of the
auction to invest billions of dollars in the local economy,
separately from the project itself, when they are picked to
develop resources.
   In New Orleans, a spokesman for McDermott International
said the company had received no official word of any change
in the status of its agreement to participate in a
feasibility study. The committee re-examining the contract
was "formed overnight," the spokesman said, and McDermott is
still trying to determine what might occur.