Democrats Bend
   On Bid to Lower
   Corporate Tax
   ---
   House Panelists Drop Plan
   Of Permanent Rate Cut;
   Relief Until '93 Proposed
   ----
   By Jackie Calmes and Rick Wartzman
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
The changes were meant to increase support for the tax
package among Democrats in time for a House vote next week.
But they did little to increase the chances for a compromise
with the Bush administration, which is unswerving in its
opposition to the Democrats' plan to increase taxes paid by
the rich.
   Meanwhile, Sen. Lloyd Bentsen (D., Texas), chairman of the
Senate Finance Committee, announced that his panel will begin
writing its bill Feb. 27, a day after the expected House
floor action. Democrats in the Senate are split over whether
to finance any tax cut with tax increases on upper-class
taxpayers or with cuts in the defense budget. The White House
is prepared to consider the latter course, but not the
former. But with partisan tensions increasing, the
administration isn't inclined toward bipartisan negotiations
right now.
   During a caucus yesterday, many rank-and-file House
Democrats complained that the earlier draft of the tax bill
would permanently cut the top corporate tax rate, while
giving middle-income Americans only a temporary tax break.
Others argued for targeted corporate tax relief, such as a
tax credit to encourage purchases of new equipment, rather
than an across-the-board reduction in the corporate tax rate
to 33% from 34%.
   The alterations in the bill were designed to satisfy both
complaints. Democrats plan to caucus on taxes again today.
   The House Democrats' plan would rely almost exclusively on
higher income taxes for the top 1% of taxpayers. Those
proposed tax increases drew no complaints during yesterday's
caucus, according to several lawmakers. The increases didn't,
however, escape the administration's notice. "The only thing
permanent in the Democrats' package is a tax increase," said
Treasury spokeswoman Desiree Tucker-Sorini.
   Even as modified, the Democratic package is bound to draw
complaints from small businesses. Sole proprietorships and
partnerships pay taxes as individuals, and under the
Democrats' plan, the highest-income individuals would be hit
with a new 35% marginal tax rate instead of 31%.
   The split between such small businesses and the big
companies that would benefit from a corporate rate reduction
is reflected within the Tax Reform Action Coaltion, or TRAC,
a broad-based business lobby. Its support was instrumental in
Congress' overhaul of the tax system in 1986.
   TRAC includes industrial powerhouses such as Procter 
Gamble Co. and International Business Machines Corp., which
would clearly benefit from a lowering of the corporate tax
rate. But the National Federation of Independent Business, a
TRAC member representing hundreds of thousands of tiny firms,
told lawmakers that an increase in individual taxes would
"result in disaster for Main Street businesses." The
federation said that in 1989, 90% of the businesses filing
income tax returns did so as individuals.
   In 1986, both individual and corporate rates fell, making
all of TRAC's members happy. But this time, "there's a
quandary the group has never had to address before," said
Larry O'Brien, a Washington lawyer who serves as counsel to
TRAC. "We're well short of a collective conclusion about what
direction, if any, we can move in."
   The 100 members of TRAC's policy-setting committee are set
to meet today to see if they can reach some kind of
consensus. Yesterday, the influential National Association of
Wholesale-Distributors said it decided to oppose the
Democrats' plan because its own ranks are riven: Some members
pay taxes as corporations and others pay as individuals. "We
cannot have a house divided," said Alan Kranowitz, senior
vice president for the wholesalers.
   At their caucus yesterday, Democrats took turns
criticizing the proposed permanet cut in corporate rates,
saying it would be too broad and too costly; its cost is
estimated at $17.1 billion over six years. Rep. David Obey
(D., Wis.) said the permanent cut would be "a very expensive
proposition for minimal economic impact." By limiting the
corporate tax cut to two years, the five-year cost would be
reduced by $10 billion.
   Some of that savings would go to pay for Mr. Bush's
proposal to give business an extra 15% depreciation allowance
for equipment purchased this year. In addition, a provision
designed to help small businesses would allow firms to write
off as much as $25,000 of equipment in the year of purchase,
compared with $10,000 currently.
   Some liberal Democrats criticized the Democrats' plan
because it includes a tax break on capital gains; they cited
the party's oft-made arguments that such a proposal
overwhelmingly would favor rich investors. A few
conservatives groused that the package would add to the huge
deficit in the first three years -- a point the
administration made as well. The losses would be offset in
later years as the temporary tax cuts expire.
   But even some of the critics said they would support the
package, and party leaders expressed confidence that it would
have enough Democratic support to pass. Still, in order to
avoid taking any chances, especially since few Republicans
will vote for the plan, they directed the Ways and Means
Democrats to make the modifications.
   ---
   Jeffrey H. Birnbaum contributed to this article.