Texas Instruments Posts New Losses,
   But Sees Return to Profitability in '92
   ----
   By Michael Allen
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
"I think the odds of a break-even first quarter are a bit
better," said Lehman Brothers analyst Michael Gumport, who
called the latest release "positive."
   Indeed, after subtracting $55 million of charges for work
force downsizing and other items, the company eked out a
pretax operating profit of $12 million in the fourth quarter,
up from a year-earlier figure of $1 million.
   Including charges and taxes, fourth-quarter net losses
worsened to $85 million, or $1.18 a share, from a
fourth-quarter 1990 net loss of $56 million, or 80 cents a
share, including charges of $41 million. Revenue fell
slightly to $1.75 billion from $1.76 billion a year earlier.
   For the year, the net loss ballooned to $409 million, or
$5.40 a share, including charges of $240 million for cost
reductions. In 1990, the company had a loss of $39 million,
or 92 cents a share, after net charges of about $34 million.
   Despite the losses, analysts said Texas Instruments'
efforts to reduce employees through layoffs, early
retirement, attrition and asset sales are beginning to pay
dividends. During 1991 the company trimmed about 7,000 jobs,
and on Friday it announced plans to cut an additional 1,000.
At year end 1991, the company had 63,000 employees. Texas
Instruments also took charges last year for mothballing
obsolete semiconductor production capacity.
   In a letter to shareholders, Jerry R. Junkins, chairman
and chief executive officer, said the company expects to
begin saving about $220 million a year from the cost-cutting.
And, in a departure from past year end reports, he signaled
that profitability could return even without a rebound in the
depressed market for semiconductors.
   "With little anticipated improvement in economic and
market growth in the near term, our own performance is the
key to our return to profitability," he wrote.
   Another plus for 1992 is that Texas Instruments has
largely completed capital outlays for big factories in
Avezzano, Italy, and Miho, Japan, that produce advanced
dynamic random access memory chips, or DRAMS, capable of
storing four million pieces of information. Further
investments in four-megabit capacity are being undertaken
with joint venture partners, which the company says will
reduce capital outlays this year to $425 million from $504
million in 1991.
   "They are over the hump with their big capital spending
plan," said John M. Geraghty, an analyst with First Boston
Corp., adding, "You at least have the sense that the
semiconductor business is getting better, and I think that's
the crucial factor."
   Still, even though some industry experts predict an uptick
in semiconductor demand this year, Texas Instruments
officials are being cautious. William P. Weber, executive
vice president and head of semiconductor operations, said he
is expecting single-digit market growth for the fourth
consecutive year, an unprecedented trough in the cyclical
business.
   "Computers account for 40% of the semiconductor market,"
he noted, adding, "They've just been lousy in the last year,
and they're not expected to improve dramatically in the near
term."