GM Is Criticized
   By UAW Official
   On Labor Relations
   ----
   By Gregory A. Patterson
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Mr. Yokich sharply criticized GM's labor relations, saying
the company could save "billions" of dollars by working
together with the union on programs ranging from ergonomics
improvement to halting the outflow of jobs from the company.
   But Mr. Yokich effectively denied the No. 1 auto maker's
request for a major money-saving move. That is a proposal
that UAW workers in GM's 150 U.S. factories take vacation at
the same time in the summer. The move would save GM as much
as $200 million a year.
   Mr. Yokich said GM officials would have to gain approval
for a companywide vacation from workers in each factory, one
local at a time. Workers aren't likely to accept the change
without strong support from the union leaders because it
would amount to a $900-a-year pay cut, GM officials concede.
Workers wouldn't receive the unemployments benefits they now
do when plants are closed for normal model changeover.
   UAW officials last year also declined the company's
request to forgo a $600-a-person Christmas bonus last year,
which could have saved the auto maker $15 million. Analysts
now expect GM to post a net loss of $2.7 billion for all of
1991.
   Mr. Yokich said one way GM could improve its results would
be to work harder at improving safety in its factories and
lowering the stress and strain of various tasks to cut
health-care costs.
   GM officials concede they haven't made as much progress on
health and safety issues as they would like. But privately,
GM officials say the company's fundamental problem is that it
has too many workers, and takes one-third more hours to
produce each car than its best competitors.
   GM officials also believe Mr. Yokich was speaking as much
to the union rank and file as to the company. Mr. Yokich, UAW
President Owen Bieber and all of the union's other top
leaders are up for election this year in voting that will
take place in the spring.