U.S. Futures Industry's Outlook
   For Retaking Lost Ground Is Bleak
   ---
   As Overseas Markets Grow
   At Faster Clip, Many Say
   Trend Can't Be Reversed
   ----
   By Jeffrey Taylor
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
He and others believe that this shift to foreign markets
was inevitable -- the predictable drift of futures-trading
business to its most efficient venues. Mr. Grant's own firm
has certainly been a case in point.
   Refco is a futures-trading giant that grew over the last
decade more or less in tandem with Chicago's two big futures
exchanges. Over the last five years, the firm's manpower and
trading volume have doubled in London and Paris while
remaining constant in Chicago, Mr. Grant says.
   The reasons include the dollar's decline as the world's
benchmark currency; the increasing sophistication of foreign
market users, who now have a wealth of choices outside the
U.S.; innovation and aggressive marketing at foreign
exchanges; and such simple barriers as time zones.
   Though executives at U.S. futures exchanges are right when
they say foreign exchanges are co-opting technology they
pioneered, many now think this was unavoidable. "When you
have 100% of a market, there's only one thing that can happen
to your market share, and that's go down," says Jack Wing,
chairman of Chicago Corp., a financial firm with a big
futures-trading operation.
   The city of Chicago has always been the mainstay of U.S.
futures trading. The industry's genesis was this Midwestern
city's innovative use of futures contracts to establish
prices for agricultural products -- a role born of Chicago's
status as "stacker of wheat" and "hog butcher for the world,"
as poet Carl Sandburg put it.
   Then, over the last 15 years, Chicago's big exchanges
revolutionized their industry by pioneering financial futures
contracts -- instruments that track the values of bonds,
currencies and stocks. Banks, corporations and securities
firms discovered what farmers had known for decades: that
futures contracts -- commitments to deliver commodities or
securities at some date in the future -- could be used to lay
off financial risk and make money.
   In one way, the erosion of U.S. market share merely
continues the evolution of these financial futures contracts.
Some of the overseas exchanges' most successful contracts are
based on German and French bonds and the Japanese stock
market.
   While U.S. exchanges have taken a stab at luring business
in some of these instruments here, foreign investors are
spurning Chicago's efforts to market their countries' own
financial instruments.
   For instance, the Osaka Securities Exchange offers a
futures contract based on the Nikkei stock index that dwarfs
a similar contract traded on the Chicago Mercantile Exchange.
Osaka's Nikkei futures contract, in fact, is one of the
fastest-growing contracts in the world.
   "The Japanese investor doesn't use the CME Nikkei contract
at all," says Gaku Nitta, Chicago branch manager for
securities firm Yamaichi International America Inc. "There's
no necessity, waking up at midnight in Tokyo to trade here."
   The London International Financial Futures Exchange, or
LIFFE, now offers an array of successful contracts based on
European interest rates. Futures contracts based on French
bonds are a huge hit at the Matif exchange in Paris. And two
years ago, after Germany's first futures exchange opened, the
country's major banks agreed among themselves to support it
by doing a specified amount of their futures trading there.
   Business overseas isn't only booming in financial futures,
however. Foreign exchanges are also siphoning off business in
more traditional commodities, including some in which the
primary markets are in the U.S.
   On the International Petroleum Exchange in London, or IPE,
trading volume in its Brent crude-oil futures contracts rose
28% to 5,230,892 contracts in 1991 from 4,083,092 a year
earlier. Meanwhile, volume in the world's biggest energy
futures contract -- the New York Mercantile Exchange's
crude-oil contract, widely used as a pricing mechanism for
West Texas Intermediate oil -- dropped 11% to 21,005,867
contracts in 1991 from 23,686,897 contracts in 1990.
   New York Merc officials say anticipation of the Persian
Gulf War created extraordinary circumstances in 1990 that
sharply increased demand for oil futures. They take solace in
the fact that 1991 volume was slightly higher than the 1989
total of 20.5 million contracts.
   Yet executives at companies that serve the industries that
trade crude-oil futures -- producers such as oil companies or
refineries and consumers such as airlines -- think deeper
market forces are at work.
   "We tend to see more activity in the derivatives area from
European companies than American companies," says David
Hammer, a vice president at Phibro Energy Inc., which helps
industrial users manage their energy costs. "The Europeans
tend to be a little more advanced in that regard. And if
they're hedging against European petroleum products, the IPE
contract is the natural place for the business to go."
   This phenomenon isn't restricted to energy markets.
Platinum futures trading exploded in 1991 on the Tokyo
Commodities Exchange, or TOCOM, up 65% to 5,403,596 contracts
in 1991 from 3,269,222 a year earlier. Open interest in
platinum contracts at the TOCOM is now fluctuating near
record levels.
   Meanwhile, trading in the New York Merc's platinum futures
contract has never really recovered from a 1989 announcement
by Ford Motor Co. that it had developed a platinum-free
catalytic converter for automobiles. Until then, platinum's
most widespread industrial use in the U.S. had been to make
catalytic converters. New York Merc platinum futures volume
dropped 26% to 604,646 contracts in 1991 from 820,934
contracts in 1990.
   "The Japanese historically had the most exposure in
platinum, and this has intensified recently," says James
Riley, partner in charge of metals trading for J. Aron, the
commodities division of Goldman, Sachs  Co. "Here
everybody's wedding band is gold; in Japan it's platinum. A
lot more physical platinum is traded in Japan than anywhere
else in world. And platinum still is widely used in the
Japanese automotive industry. It's natural that their
contract should be bigger."
   Another example is gold options contracts. The BMF
futures exchange in Brazil, which opened in 1989, traded
7,452,730 gold options in 1991, up 24% from 1990's 6,000,859
contracts. Rampant inflation in South and Central America
creates demand for these contracts; the same inflation keeps
users from the region from trading on the Commodity Exchange
of New York, where gold options volume fell 28% to 1,398,451
contracts in 1991 from 1,931,804 in 1990.
   "We are seeing business moving off shore," says John
Damgard, president of the Futures Industry Association, an
international trade group. "These days, there are very
healthy, viable markets overseas. To the extent other
countries used to accept basis risk and come to the U.S.,
they're simply doing it less now."