LEISURE  ARTS -- On Sports:
   Never Mind Mario, We Like Mike
   ----
   By Frederick C. Klein
I got his drift, and laughed. He laughed, too. But I
thought about it, and the more I thought the more intriguing
became the notion of Michael Jordan running for president as
a Democrat (it appears that the Republicans already have
their candidate). The Dems could do worse, and just might.
   Jordan is a basketball player, but he's more -- the most
famous athlete on the planet in this TV-satellite age, we're
told. I think if you asked American men who they'd be if they
could be anyone, a goodly number -- regardless of age, race,
income or level of education -- would say Jordan. He can run
and gun, and his hang time exceeds that of a Reggie Roby
punt. Us guys admire that sort of thing.
   But he also seems to be gracious, wellspoken and downright
nice, things that appeal to both sexes. I say "seems to be"
because I don't know for sure; I've spent only a few minutes
in his company and, then, mostly surrounded by other
reporters, TV cameramen and similiar sweaty types. But in an
age in which image is everything, "seems to be" is as good as
is, if not better.
   Jordan already has scaled heights no athlete has reached.
His "Q" rating -- on a scale dreamed up by a marketing type
to measure a public figure's believability -- is off the
charts. He has a stretch of interstate highway named for him
in his native North Carolina. On Sept. 28 he was guest host
of the season premiere of "Saturday Night Live," and the
audience of 22.1 million viewers he attracted set a record
for the program. The previous high came when Madonna was on.
   We like Mike, yes we do. Do you think that might make a
political slogan?
   How much we like Mike is seen in the fact that we will buy
things on his say so. That, at least, is what the purveyors
of many products think. They are rewarding him mightily to
endorse sneakers, burgers, breakfast cereals, soft drinks,
sports drinks (there's a difference) and automobiles, to name
a few. No doubt, the list will grow.
   Do you think this is irrelevant to politics? You
shouldn't. A case can be made that we vote with our wallets
as much as with our ballots. And if you think pitching
products is unpresidential, you should recall that, before he
ran for public office, Ronald Reagan was a spokesman for a
manufacturer of general electrical goods.
   The Jordan persona has, no doubt, been in part
manufactured by his advisers to ensure a steady stream of
endorsement dollars to his treasury. One result is his
reluctance to say anything that remotely can be called
controversial. He has been faulted for this, particularly by
fellow blacks who believe he should be outspoken on behalf of
the cause or causes they espouse. He responds that he just
wants to be thought of as a good person, and it is hard to
quarrel with that.
   To get a line on Jordan's general political views, I
sought an interview through ProServ, the Arlington, Va.-based
firm that represents him. That is the way things are done
these days. The response was that Jordan isn't interested in
talking about politics. He's registered to vote in the
Chicago suburb in which he lives, but won't declare a party
affiliation, the ProServ spokesman said. He declines to
express himself on the issues of the day.
   This, however, should not eliminate him from presidential
consideration. Dwight Eisenhower, perhaps our most popular
president, was a career military man who never declared a
party preference or spoke out on matters of domestic
importance until he announced his candidacy for the 1952
Republican nomination. Mr. Eisenhower later would say he'd
been a lifelong Republican, but he concealed this tilt so
well that the Democrats approached him about being their
candidate in 1948.
   There are other possible obstacles to a Jordan candidacy.
In his estimable book "The Jordan Rules" (Simon  Schuster),
an inside look at the 1990-91 championship season of the
Chicago Bulls, Sam Smith, the beat reporter covering the
National Basketball Association for the Chicago Tribune,
revealed that, on occasion, Jordan can be obstinate, selfish,
demanding, imperious, rough on underlings (i.e., everyone
else on the Bulls, including the general manager) and
intolerant of fools. He also tends to drive too fast. But if
you think those attributes are unpresidential, check out any
biography of Lyndon Johnson.
   Jordan is rich -- his annual income is estimated at
between $15 million and $20 million -- but wealth didn't keep
John Kennedy out of the White House, or the likes of Nelson
Rockefeller and W. Averell Harriman from trying to get there.
Jordan is a dedicated golfer, which bespeaks a masochistic
streak, but so was Ike. Michael is only 28, and our
Constitution says you have to be 35 to be president. As they
say in sports, though, records are made to be broken.
   Jordan has some things going for him besides his nice-guy
image. He has a college degree (OK, so it's in geography),
which is more than can be said for some of our presidents. He
was born in New York, raised in North Carolina, and lives in
Chicago, which means he'd have multisectional appeal. His
basketball-playing style has been widely praised for its
spontaneity; this is another way of saying that he likes to
ad lib, just like our current president (hey, John Sununu
said it, not me).
   And on more than one occasion, when his team was about to
face the one from Milwaukee, he has been heard to declare
"The Bucks stop here]" I think Old Harry would be proud.
   Of course, Michael may be too busy for now to be
president, or genuinely uninterested in the job. In that
case, let me tell you about David Robinson. . . .