Corporate Focus:
   SMH Leads a Revival of Swiss Watchmaking Industry
   ---
   Maker of Trendy Swatch Uses Wide Price
   Range to Edge Out Japanese Rivals
   ----
   By Margaret Studer
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
Mr. Hayek also says 1991 unit sales of watches and watch
movements climbed about 35% from 57.9 million a year earlier.
That, he says, produced a sales increase of about 18% in
terms of francs. But a more modest performance by the
company's non-watch sector will result in a rise in total
consolidated sales of about 10% to 11% from 2.14 billion
francs, he adds.
   As for the future, "1992 also looks very good," Mr. Hayek
says, adding that orders for January and February were up
about 50% from last year.
   Analysts expect the company to raise its dividends for
1991 and 1992. "Dividends will go up," predicts Swiss Bank
Corp. financial analyst Oliver Knoblauch. "SMH is peforming
well."
   Mr. Knoblauch has forecast that SMH's 1992 net income will
rise to 260 million francs on sales of 2.61 billion francs.
   Urs Diethelm, who analyzes SMH for Bank Vontobel,
forecasts watch and movement sales could grow to 100 million
francs in 1992, driven by the Swatch.
   "Surprisingly, SMH has not been affected by the economic
slowdown," says analyst Wolfgang Strub at Swiss Volksbank,
which is advising clients to buy SMH stock. SMH's strength is
based, in part, on the wide price range of its watches.
   Mr. Hayek says: "For my company, I'm only moderately
worried about the world economy. SMH is a rich company now
and has a flexible, quick-reacting management." Before Mr.
Hayek took charge, SMH was noted for its staid approach, but
he has revolutionized the company's management and made it
more responsive to consumer trends.
   SMH was created in 1983 from Switzerland's two largest
watch makers, SSIH and Asuag, which had been undercut by
competition from Japan and Hong Kong. Though the two
companies controlled some of the world's best-known watch
brands -- Omega, Longines, Tissot and Rado -- they were
crushed under a mountain of debt.
   To help turn the companies around, a Swiss bank consortium
that held the company's debt called in management guru
Nicolas Hayek, founder and chief executive officer of
Zurich-based Hayek Engineering. That company had at various
times been brought in to solve problems at such diverse
institutions as Philip Morris Cos., Dow Chemical Co.,
Volkswagen AG, the Chinese government and the city of Zurich.
   Mr. Hayek merged the companies, streamlined the group,
tossed out stale managers, put some zest into marketing and
revolutionized distribution, gaining direct control of most
distribution networks to maintain quality standards. When the
banks wanted to get out of the watch business, he took over
the company with the help of an investor consortium.
   His biggest triumph was the launching of the inexpensive,
technologically innovative, plastic Swatch. The timepiece
uses a reduced number of components and can be produced on a
fully automated assembly line, slashing production costs so
that a Swatch can be sold today at about the same price as it
was nearly 10 years ago. By the middle of this year, the
trendy timepiece is expected to surpass 100 million in unit
sales, making it the fastest-selling model in watchmaking
history.
   "At the time, it wouldn't have entered anyone's head to
fight the Japanese," explains Mr. Hayek. "We did, and pushed
the Japanese over the wall."
   It hasn't been all smooth sailing for Mr. Hayek at SMH,
however. Swatch was a winner when first introduced in the
U.S., but sales started to decline in the second half of the
1980s. American management, in selling the Swatch with cheap
accessories, hurt the watch's appeal. Swatch stopped selling
accessories. And a decision to sell Swatches exclusively
through department stores such as Macy's and Bloomingdale's
also proved to be a mistake. Now the watches are also
available from jewelers, and SMH executives say Swatch is
doing well once again. The company can't produce enough
chronographs and scuba watches for the U.S. market.
   But Volksbank's Mr. Strub remarks: "The Swatch concept is
brilliant, but with a fun product there is always a danger.
You always have to be bringing something new." And Mr.
Diethelm, of Bank Vontobel, says: "Mr. Hayek is full of
enthusiasm and ideas. Of course many of them work, but some
of them don't."
   There also were hurdles in the company's
telecommunications sector. The Swatch twinphone -- which
allowed two people to talk on the same telephone -- was too
revolutionary for some markets. "It is successful where
introduced, but some markets still don't accept it," said an
analyst.
   Mr. Hayek also had a spate of negative publicity last year
when his top manager left, creating an impression that he
"wanted to rule the show alone," one analyst remarked.
   Today, analysts say SMH and Hattori Seiko Co. of Japan are
running neck and neck for the title of the world's No. 1
watchmaker. Citizen Watch Co. is third, followed by Casio
Computer Co. In Japan itself, Mr. Hayek claims, Swiss
manufacturers control 43% of the watch market.
   Mr. Hayek easily counts off a few of the tenets of his
strategic credo:
   -- Strength in all three watch-price categories:
favorable, medium and expensive. This, says Volksbank's Mr.
Strub "is his magic formula. . . . If the luxury watches are
slow, he is still selling Swatch. The Japanese don't have
SMH's strength in all three sectors."
   -- Automation and rationalization. The SMH chairman notes
that Hayek Engineering's business is telling other companies
how to produce quality at the lowest cost. "Now, we're
telling SMH," he says.
   -- Communication. "I want young people with new ideas to
get to me. If someone has an idea, I listen," Mr. Hayek
maintains. One employee at Hayek Engineering concedes,
however, that some junior employees might lack the courage to
approach the boss.
   -- Innovation. Recent new additions to a stream of new
products are the Swatch chronographs, scubas and pagers;
Rado's ceramic, scratch-proof watches; and Omega's gold
mechanical watches.
   Indeed, SMH's taste for adventurous innovations stretches
beyond watches. The company is developing a Swatch car, which
will be "high-tech and life style at a reasonable cost," Mr.
Hayek asserts. In a recent coup, SMH attracted Volkswagen
into a 50-50 joint venture.
   The thought of a watch maker developing an automobile has
met with some skepticism. But Mr. Hayek's enthusiasm seems to
be working. "Volkswagen is not the sort of company which goes
into such a venture for fun," suggests Swiss Bank's Mr.
Knoblauch.
   The irrepressible Mr. Hayek, of course, doesn't doubt that
he is on to another winner: "We are at the stage of making
prototypes. This will be a solid Swiss-German car with Swatch
appeal."
   ---
                     The Fundamentals
                                                                                                       

                                        1990       1989
                                                                                                       

   SALES ($ millions)                 $1,486.45  $1,491.31
   NET INCOME ($ millions)              $132.92    $121.61
   DIVIDENDS PER SHARE                    $8.34      $7.64
                                                                                                       

   MAJOR PRODUCT LINES:
                                                                                                       

   Watches and movements. (Product lines Omega, Longines,
Rado, Tissot, Certina, Mido, Hamilton, Balmain, Swatch, Flik
Flak, Endura) Other products include telecommunications,
medical engineering, laser technology, semiconductor
technology, measuring instruments.
                                                                                                       

   MAJOR COMPETITORS
                                                                                                       

   Hattori Seiko, Citizen and Casio