International -- Washington Insight:
   Phase Three of Mideast Plan, in Moscow,
   To Stress Economic Benefits of Peace
   ----
   By Robert S. Greenberger
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
"The sweet perfume of money will waft over the
multilateral talks, if they get going. That's the concept,"
said Martin Indyk, executive director of the Washington
Institute for Near East Policy.
   But the concept may be flawed. The regional talks are
meant to bolster direct Arab-Israeli peace negotiations that
started at the Madrid peace conference last October and have
continued in Washington. But the same problems plaguing the
one-on-one talks between Israel and its neighbors threaten to
raise obstacles at the planned regional discussions.
   Palestinians and two of the Arab nations with which Israel
has been talking directly, Syria and Lebanon, say they won't
attend the Moscow meeting; they say Israel must prove first
it is willing to trade land for peace. Arms control, which
also is on the Moscow agenda, won't be easy to discuss until
there is progress in the direct Arab-Israeli talks, experts
say. And Israel is likely to refuse to discuss some subjects,
such as the status of Jerusalem, that Arabs want to put on
the regional agenda.
   Another likely bone of contention involves the plight of
the more than two million Palestinian refugees who live in
camps in Arab countries. Palestinians, backed by Jordan,
insist that these refugees must be represented at the table
by the Palestine Liberation Organization, which they say is
the only group that speaks for Palestinians inside and
outside the Israeli-occupied West Bank and Gaza. Israel
refuses to meet with the PLO, which it considers a terrorist
organization.
   Secretary of State James Baker solved this problem in the
direct Arab-Israeli negotiations by getting all sides to
agree that the Palestinian delegates wouldn't be PLO
officials, would be from the occupied territories and would
participate in the talks as part of a Jordanian-Palestinian
delegation. Israel says it will accept only the same
arrangement in the regional talks.
   Mr. Baker deliberately kept the final status of Jerusalem
off the initial agenda of the direct Palestinian-Israeli
talks, which deal with autonomy arrangements for Palestinians
in the territories. But some Arabs want to use the regional
talks to raise the thorny issue of Jerusalem. An Arab
diplomat says that "because of the international character of
the city, because of its interest to Muslims, Christians,
Arabs and Jews, the multinational venue is a possible one for
a discussion of the issue."
   Israel considers Jerusalem its capital and insists that
the city will never again be divided.
   Despite these potential pitfalls, both Arabs and Israelis
hope that the regional talks produce mutual benefits. Israel
has prepared a six-page paper describing a range of issues it
wants to talk about. For instance, it plans to press for
regional cooperation in the Gulf of Aqaba region, which is
bordered by Israel, Jordan, Egypt and Saudi Arabia. An
Israeli official says steps could include joint environmental
efforts and tourism promotion.
   Jordan and Israel agree on the need to talk about common
regional problems involving water. Marwan Muasher, Jordan's
spokesman for the talks, contends that water usage currently
"isn't based on an equitable solution but on who's stronger."
Because of Israel's dominance, he says, Jordan doesn't get "a
single drop" out of the Jordan river. Israel plans to propose
exchanging information on water, conservation and cloud
seeding.
   For technologically advanced Israel, the talks promise
regional acceptance through economic relations with the
Arabs. For Arabs, says Mr. Muasher, "Money needs to be
injected into the region. People have to feel that the
quality of life improves, that compromise pays."