REVIEW  OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   Making More Homeless
New York's policy was imposed by a 1986 court order, and
since then the city has made extraordinary efforts to meet
it. A family requesting shelter jumps to the head of 189,000
other people on a waiting list for public housing. Since
1984, New York City has spent $600 million to provide 27,000
permanent apartments for the homeless, but the demand keeps
rising.
   Some apartments cost the city $3,000 a month in rent. All
told, New York City with 7.3 million people spends seven
times as much on the homeless as Los Angeles, Chicago,
Houston and Philadelphia, which have a total of 9.7 million
people. Among the opponents of New York's open-doors homeless
policy is Andrew Cuomo, the son of the Governor and the head
of a local housing commission.
   Homeless families usually do have real problems that
prompt them to seek out shelters. Such families are almost
always headed by women, and the housing they move out of may
have been shared with drug-taking boyfriends or quarrelsome
relatives. Given the chance to get a subsidized apartment
within a few months, many view temporary "homelessness" as a
rational decision.
   Gloria Guard, director of a homeless program in
Philadelphia, says that for some young women shelters are "a
way to transit from their parents' home to a place of their
own." Even so, many homeless families are careful to accept
only certain kinds of shelter. In late 1989, Westchester
County, New York, housed most of its homeless families in
hotels, with restaurant privileges. It had some 800 homeless
families. Nearby Nassau County, which had half again as many
people but used shelters, had 50 homeless families.
   "Providing housing for all homeless families is, by
definition, a commitment to provide housing for all poor
families," says Randall Filer, an economist who has studied
homeless programs for the Manhattan Institute. "You will
increase rather than reduce the number of homeless families."
   There are clearly some things that can be done to combat
homelessness in the short run. One overlooked change would
halt 30-year-old policies that have destroyed much of the
nation's marginal housing. Many older cities once had a
variety of small "walk-up" apartments, row houses, tenements
and single-room-occupancy hotels that acted as a buffer
between the poor and homelessness. They weren't pretty, but
housing analyst Peter Rossi reports that very few people
slept on the streets or in shelters back then.
   Starting in the 1960s, there was general agreement between
developers and public-housing bureaucrats that "sub-standard"
housing such as SRO hotels that stood on valuable
central-city land had to go. Between 1974 and 1983 alone,
some 896,000 housing units renting for less than $200 a month
were lost to conversion or demolition. More than half the SRO
units in downtown Los Angeles were demolished between 1970
and 1985. In New York City, the number of people living in
SRO units declined to 19,000 in 1986 from 98,000 in 1965. The
lost SRO units were often replaced by public-housing units,
many of which are today unfit for human habitation and lie
vacant.
   It is difficult to build new SRO hotels in most cities
today because stringent building codes demand that each new
unit have its own expensive cooking, toilet and even parking
facilities. San Diego is an exception. In the late 1980s it
modified its codes and was able to cut the cost of building
an SRO room to $20,000 vs. the $50,000 it cost to build a
studio apartment. New no-frills rooms in San Diego lack their
own showers and on-site parking, but each comes with a
toilet, refrigerator, microwave oven and television. The rent
ranges between $220 and $390 a month.
   The emotions raised by homelessness often crowd out
rational debate on real answers. But some clear thinking on
how government policies have reduced the amount of affordable
housing while artificially increasing the demand for public
housing is in order. Otherwise, the nation will continue to
be frustrated by its homeless problem even as it spends ever
more money.