Labor Letter:
   A Special News Report on People
   And Their Jobs in Offices,
   Fields and Factories
   ----
   Albert R. Karr
U.S. District Judge Terence Evans, in Milwaukee, said, "It
makes no sense to broaden those rights (against
discrimination) on one hand and then deny the wider effect of
the law to people who have pending cases or have been the
victims of discriminatory conduct prior to November." But
Judge Michael Mukasey in New York said applying the law
retroactively would be a "manifest injustice" to employers.
   The Bush administration and the Equal Employment
Opportunity Commission argue against retroactivity.
                                                                                                       

   BATTLING THE BUG: Employers struggle with another big flu
season.
   Influenza -- a respiratory disease, not the stomach flu
that upset President Bush -- is rampant again this winter.
Westinghouse Electric gave "a lot more flu shots" this year,
reflecting more "sensitivity" to the problem of workers
calling in sick. Pet Inc. says the flu season is "a
particularly insidious experience"; people often seem to be
on the mend only to relapse for several days with similar
symptoms.
   About 10% more employees have the flu this winter, says
Commercial Federal, in Omaha. Delta Air Lines' Atlanta
headquarters had higher absenteeism for three weeks around
Christmas. Engraph Inc., Atlanta-based packaging
manufacturer, said flu cases weren't a big problem, maybe
because half its employees took advantage of free
vaccinations it offered them at work.
                                                                                                       

   HMO USAGE GAINS, but employee enthusiasm often ebbs.
   Enrollment in health maintenance organizations, which
offer prepaid, unlimited medical care but restrict choice of
doctors, has been rising. Control Data, which offers HMOs in
major cities, says usage is up to 45% this year, thanks to
features like a lack of deductibles. But use hasn't been
growing among members of New York's United Federation of
Teachers or at United Technologies, where employees find
restricted choice of doctors a drawback.
   sage is off in recent years at the New York unit of
AFSCME, which has improved a traditional indemnity health
plan. Allied Signal dropped HMOs in 1988 in favor of other
"managed care" programs with features of both HMOs and
indemnity plans. Alltel Corp., Little Rock, Ark., says HMO
usage may slide as the firm's indemnity plan covers more
"prevention" charges such as physicals.
   HMOs were used by 33% of workers in a recent poll of 245
employers by Intracorp., a health-care provider.
                                                                                                       

   THE RECESSION may prod more cost-conscious employees to
switch to HMOs. The United Federation of Teachers in New York
saw slightly more HMO interest in October. A union spokesman
predicts that "if the economy continues to be bad, by the
time the next change period comes around, there will be more
interest again."
                                                                                                       

   ON TO IDAHO: Ranking 150 metropolitan areas on families
moving in, against those leaving, Ryder Truck Rental says
Boise, Idaho, was the most popular destination last year.
Boise's ratio was 16-to-10. Next in order were Springfield,
Mo.; Nashville, Tenn., and Wilmington, N.C.
                                                                                                       

   IT AIN'T NECESSARILY SO: The National Labor Relations
Board decided, in a nursing-home case, that it will follow a
caseby-case approach for determining proper bargaining units
for most health-care facilities. After the Supreme Court
upheld an NLRB plan in hospital bargaining cases for
expedited rule-making, which benefits unions, some critics
warned of a precedent for similar efforts in other fields.
                                                                                                       

   EMPLOYERS PREPARE to help handicapped patrons, to meet
requirement.
   The public accommodations provision of Americans with
Disabilities Act, which took effect two days ago, requires
that facilities from restaurants to libraries be accessible
to the disabled. Meridian Bank in Reading, Pa., pledged to
train branch workers to be sensitive to the needs of
handicapped customers. During training sessions, workers must
tape together two fingers on their writing hands, put cotton
balls in their ears, and smear Vaseline on their glasses.
   Using a $187,000 Justice Department grant, the National
Restaurant Association is giving a booklet and videotapes to
members that stress the need to provide services to help the
disabled. Some restaurateurs tell waiters and waitresses to
read their menus to the blind; others provide audiotapes of
menu entrees.
   For Sunday's Super Bowl in Minneapolis, Metrodome guards
were schooled in directing disabled fans to elevators and
wheelchair spaces in the stands.
                                                                                                       

   THE CHECKOFF: Of 24,582 reported railroad-related injuries
in 1990, 84% were suffered by employees, the industry says. .
. . The Environmental Protection Agency, concerned about
worker health, said it will ban the use on grapes of the
pesticide sodium arsenite, a possible carcinogen. . . . The
sheet-metal contractors and union's training fund will
henceforth use the term "journeyperson" instead of
"journeyman," for those who have finished apprenticeships.
   ---
   Corrections  Amplifications
                                                                                                       

   MICHAEL MUKASEY, a federal judge in New York, did not use
the term "manifest injustice" to describe retroactive
application of the 1991 civil-rights law in general, as
reported in Tuesday's Labor Letter column. He used the term
only to refer to retroactive application of a jury verdict
under another statute to a case awaiting his decision.
   (WSJ Jan. 31, 1992)