Tough Climate
   Hits Electronics
   Firms in Japan
   ---
   Analysts Say Poor Results
   Signal Structural Shifts
   Occurring in the Industry
   ----
   By Jacob M. Schlesinger
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Also, Japanese news agencies reported that Clarion Co., a
leading car audio company, is expecting to report its first
loss since being listed on the Tokyo stock exchange in 1962,
and that Ricoh Co., one of the world's top copier and
facsimile machine makers, was also expecting a loss. Last
week, the once high-flying Sony Corp. said it would report a
loss for the parent company, its first ever, but would still
make money on a consolidated basis -- that is, including all
its subsidiaries.
   Japan's computer and semiconductor makers are also
beginning to bleed. Toshiba Corp. last week slashed its
already reduced earnings forecasts for the fiscal year,
saying unconsolidated profit will now likely tumble 60%.
   The main problem for all these companies is the slowing
economy in Japan and the rest of the world. "During the
Christmas season, the sales situation was terribly bad in the
domestic market, as well as in Europe," a JVC spokesman said.
That problem has been compounded by the rapid strengthening
of the yen against other currencies, which boosts the cost of
Japanese exports. JVC depends on overseas markets for 56% of
its sales.
   JVC, 52.4% owned by Matsushita Electric Industrial Co.,
has survived many recessions and currency shifts without
losing money. But analysts said the latest round of bad
reports seem to signal more serious, structural shifts in the
industry.
   "There's a huge shakeout in the whole electronics
industry," said Boris M. Petersik, a technology analyst with
the Tokyo office of Barclays de Zoete Wedd Securities (Japan)
Ltd. "There are too many guys making VCRs and too many guys
making chips."
   Just as the Japanese drove the Americans out of the
television and basic memory semiconductor business in the
1970s and 1980s, the strong Japanese players are now
beginning to inflict pain on their weaker compatriots. Even
though Sony is reporting sharply weaker consolidated profit
currently, analysts say it will be buffered in the long term
by its heavy investments in entertainment "software"
acquisitions and state-of-the-art factories. Matsushita, the
industry's largest player, which is expected to report lower
earnings this week, has made similar investments.
   Mr. Petersik said that despite recent profits, JVC has
long had underlying weaknesses that were hidden by the strong
Japanese economy and by royalty payments from other VCR
makers. "Sony has invested tons of money in facilities over
the past three years but JVC hasn't -- it hasn't had the
cash," Mr. Petersik said. "When demand falls dramatically, a
marginal company like Victor gets hurt."
   Another problem for JVC and others "is the saturation of
the electronics market," the JVC spokesman said. In 1985,
only 40% of Japanese homes had VCRs, so when the yen jumped
sharply then, Japanese electronics makers could use the
domestic market to cushion the loss of exports. But today,
80% of all homes in Japan have VCRs, "so people who are
buying are buying their second or third," he said.
   That problem is made worse because there are no new hit
products on the horizon, no new breakthroughs like the VCR of
a decade ago. That means Japanese electronics concerns are
suffering the same fate as U.S. personal computer companies
such as International Business Machines Corp. and Compaq
Computer Corp., which have also reported losses recently.
Their products are essentially hardware commodities, easily
duplicated by low-cost Asian competitors and differentiated
mainly by continued price-cutting.
   Just as Intel Corp. and Microsoft Corp., makers of the
smart chips and software that run PCs, are reaping most of
the computer industry's profits, the consumer electronics
companies that are stronger in software are enjoying higher
profits.
   Despite the recesssion, analysts expect SEGA Enterprises
Ltd. to double its profits this year while its main rival in
the computer game market, Nintendo Ltd., will also see
earnings grow. Both companies get most of their profits from
their games, not the equipment. Indeed, the JVC spokesman
said that "we are now thinking about entertainment equipment
because the game machine business in enjoying a very good
profit today." JVC last year announced a link-up with Sega.
   JVC's new forecast for a consolidated pretax loss of 4.4
billion yen for the fiscal year compares with a profit of
26.3 billion yen a year earlier. In October, it had forecast
a consolidated pretax profit of 27.5 billion yen. The company
now expects sales of 850 billion yen, down from the 926
billion yen a year earlier. In October, it had forecast sales
growth of 4%, to 970 billion yen.
   JVC does expect to report a net profit for the current
fiscal year of one billion yen. That compares with a net
after-tax profit of 16 billion yen a year earlier; in
October, it had expected to repeat that showing.