International:
   World Wire
   ----
   By Compiled by Richard L. Holman
The European Community Commission launched two
initiatives, on biofuels and transportation, to address
mounting concerns about the environment.
   The moves come six months after an informal proposal for a
$10-a-barrel tax on energy consumption to fight carbon
dioxide emissions. EC governments haven't adopted a policy to
implement their 1990 commitment to zero growth in emissions
through the year 2000.
   In the latest initiatives, one proposal calls for a tax
break to promote use of biofuels made from farm products such
as cereals, sugar beets and artichokes. Taxes on biofuels
could be cut, starting next year, to make them competitive
with fossil-based fuels such as gasoline, diesel and oil,
while lowering emissions and creating demand for EC
agricultural goods.
   The other proposal would encourage more environmentally
friendly forms of transportation. The policy could use tax,
regulatory and spending methods that favor use of railroads
and inland waterways over planes, autos and trucks.
                                                                                                       

   JAPAN'S `WORKAHOLISM' A MYTH?
                                                                                                       

   Japan's reputation as a nation of workaholics was shaken
by a Chuba Productivity Center survey that found 11% of
Japanese respondents don't like or want to work, compared
with 4% in the U.S. and 8% in Britain. The release of the
survey, conducted last August, follows remarks by Japanese
politicians that U.S. workers are lazy and illiterate. In
Japan, 22% of those polled said they take it easy at work,
and 43% put priority on enjoying life. Of the U.S. workers,
60% said they try to improve themselves through work.
                                                                                                       

   SUBIC TO BE AN ECONOMIC ZONE
                                                                                                       

   Subic Naval Base and adjacent land in the Philippines will
be designated a special economic zone free of customs duties,
most national and local taxes, and currency controls. Manila
seeks broad private-sector participation in converting the
49,400-acre military site that the U.S. is to vacate in
December. Development plans would make the base, the city of
Olongopo and three towns a self-sustaining industrial,
commercial, financial and investment center. The only tax
would be 5% on gross income earned in the zone.
                                                                                                       

   ACCORD AIMED AT ECU PAYMENTS
                                                                                                       

   An outline accord on improved arrangements for clearing
payments made in European currency units marks a milestone in
the expanding commercial use of the ECU. Under proposals to
be submitted to European central banks, ECU-clearing banks
plan a network of bilateral credit lines, as part of broader
arrangements involving central banks and the Bank for
International Settlements. A composite of the European
Monetary System's 11 currencies, the ECU is to be the
Continent's single currency under European Community plans
for monetary union in the late 1990s at the earliest.
                                                                                                       

   TAIWAN REVIVES NUCLEAR JOB
                                                                                                       

   A Taiwan agency decided to resume construction of the
country's fourth nuclear power plant, citing rising domestic
power use. The Legislature is expected to ratify the move in
March or April, allowing bidding for the work. The $6.2
billion project was suspended in 1985, after public protests.
The state power company's three nuclear power plants supply
39% of the island's electricity.
                                                                                                       

   JAPANESE MANUFACTURERS' OUTPUT
                                                                                                       

   Japanese manufacturing industries almost across the board
are reducing their output to adjust inventories swollen
because of the economic slowdown and sluggish sales. Output
cuts were particularly notable among personal computer, auto
and steel firms, and in the paper and pulp sectors, the Nihon
Keizai Shimbun newspaper said. Production drops in various
sectors could exceed 15% in the second half of the fiscal
year ending March 31.
                                                                                                       

   GATT FEARS U.S.-JAPAN EMBRACE
                                                                                                       

   Some member nations of the General Agreement on Tariffs
and Trade expressed fears about Japan's plan to boost
purchases of U.S.-made auto parts.
   At a GATT meeting in Geneva, representatives of the
auto-parts making nations Australia, Canada and Brazil said
the U.S.-Japan trade deal could effectively discriminate
against some countries.
   In Tokyo, a top European Community Commission official,
Sir Leon Brittan, warned that failure by Japan to continue
opening its markets to foreign firms could jeopardize GATT
trade-liberalization talks and intensify European and U.S.
protectionist sentiment, derailing global progress toward
freer markets.
   In financial markets, he said, Japan should improve access
for foreign firms in insurance, banking and related fields by
ending a ban on insurance policy sales through brokers, and
by increasing local and foreign interbank dealings in the
bond and money markets.
                                                                                                       

   POSTSCRIPTS . . .
                                                                                                       

   A two-hour strike in Poland by Solidarity and machinists
union workers at the heavily indebted PKP state railroad,
protesting low wages and about 25,000 possible layoffs,
caused only a few service disruptions. . . . After pollution
in Mexico City soared to near-record and health-threatening
levels for the third time this month, many cars were ordered
off the streets, 5,000 factories were told to cut production
30% and asphalt plants were idled. Meanwhile, engineers began
studying a politician's plan to have 100 giant fans, each
covering 2.5 acres, blast smog out of the city of 18 million
people.