International:
   China's Congress Meeting Opens
   Amid Calls for Economic Reform
   ---
   Beijing and Guangdong Vie
   To Establish an Agenda
   For National Priorities
   ----
   By James McGregor
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Premier Li Peng, usually a proponent of tight controls and
slow change, opened the session Friday by declaring that
"opportunity knocks but once" and calling for faster economic
growth and bolder reforms. He advocated increasing enterprise
freedom, reducing bureaucratic meddling, developing
professional stock markets and launching a concerted effort
by government and party officials to "identify the problems
about which people complain most and concentrate on solving
them."
   (To ensure that no one interprets this to include
political experiments, Mr. Li warned that "Order leads to
prosperity, and chaos to decline," therefore "if we are too
tender-hearted we shall come to grief.")
   It is clear that Beijing authorities no longer consider
Guangdong province an experiment. Policies advocated in the
speeches of both the premier and finance minister demonstrate
that the central government is now trying to play catch-up
with Guangdong.
   Guangdong governor, Zhu Senlin, came to the congress and
found himself the center of attention. He painted a picture
of one of the fastest-growing economies in the world. Citing
consistent increases in last year's performance compared with
that of 1990, he said per capita income was up 13%,
industrial output 27%, exports 30%, and the gross domestic
product 13.9%.
   In contrast, in his annual report to the congress, Finance
Minister Wang Bingqian drew a statistical picture of a
national treasury that is bleeding red ink. Using
International Monetary Fund accounting standards, China's
budget deficit in 1991 reached a record 58.3 billion yuan
($10.64 billion). This is equivalent to about 17% of
government revenue. At the same time, Beijing spent about $7
billion in price subsidies for workers and $9.5 billion to
subsidize money-losing state industry.
   With a larger budget deficit expected this year, Mr. Wang
said China will issue 38 billion yuan in treasury bonds in
1992, an increase of almost 10 billion yuan over last year.
   In addition to giving money-losing state industry a chance
of turning itself around, Beijing is planning to reduce the
tax rate for central government-controlled state enterprises
to 33% over the next three years. These enterprises now pay a
55% income tax, which along with various other taxes and
levies often brings the total tax burden to more than 80% of
any profit. The 33% rate is already the rule for many state
enterprises controlled by provincial and local governments,
including Guangdong.
   Messrs. Li and Wang both lamented the central government's
difficulty in collecting taxes. Almost all of China's tax
collectors are employed by local governments. Much of what
they collect is kept locally, so that only a relative trickle
reaches Beijing. As a result, China's economic boom is
bypassing the central government.
   Mr. Li called for tightened collection procedures and
trying in "100 ways to increase revenue." As he did last
year, apparently to no avail, Mr. Wang warned local
governments and enterprises to quit cheating Beijing.
   Also during the congress, the Chinese government formally
submitted to the legislature Saturday a controversial
proposal to build a massive dam at a site on the Yangtze
River famed for its scenery.
   The project, one of the world's largest hydroelectric
facilities, is expected to cost at least $11 billion and
critics say probably double that amount. One third of the
cost would be used to resettle one million people.
   Vice Premier Zou Jiahua told legislators that the State
Council, or cabinet, "unanimously agreed" that work should
begin as soon possible to build the dam at the river's famous
Three Gorges. The congress is expected to grant approval.
   Mr. Zou said the project would be financed through bonds,
stocks and foreign funds, but gave no details.