Manager's Journal:
   Fix General Motors Now
   ----
   By Jack Falvey
-- Anne L. Armstrong (14 years).
   -- James H. Evans (11 years).
   -- John J. Horan (11 years).
   -- Marvin L. Goldberger (10 years).
   -- John G. Smale (nine years).
   -- Thomas A. Wyman (six years).
   -- Dennis Weatherstone (five years).
   -- Edmund T. Pratt, Jr. (four years).
   -- George P. Schultz (three years).
   -- Thomas E. Everhart (two years).
   -- Willard Marriott Jr. (one year).
   -- Ann D. McLaughlin (one year).
   They should vote to run the following ad:
   Wanted: Chairman, Chief Executive and Operating Officer
for General Motors. No automotive experience preferred. Best
not a resident of the state of Michigan. Must be a swift,
decisive professional manager capable of making hard
decisions. Must be willing to replace large numbers of
entrenched top managers. Salary to $500,000 plus a company
car. Please apply to the above named directors (ASAP).
   The outside GM directors should recruit vigorously and
select an applicant quickly. They then should charge their
candidate to regain the leadership in the U.S. automotive
market that was lost by previous management. They should
agree to support the following actions:
   Reduce GM to the industry-accepted competitive model of
two divisions: one base car company and one luxury car
company.
   Divide advertising budgets equally between the two
divisions and request they concentrate that money on
promoting and selling their best single car.
   Select the best and most competitive cars from the
existing product lines, divide them between the two new
divisions and discontinue all other cars.
   Do the same with the dealer organization.
   Whatever operating funds that exist cannot be squandered
on grandiose programs for the aggrandizement of egocentric
managers. General Motors is a business and must operate as
all businesses do. Managers at all levels must spend money as
if it were theirs personally.
   GM has an abundance of highly talented, skilled managers
and workers. The best of the best must be identified and
challenged to get the company moving again. They must be
given clear executive leadership and a plan for getting their
customers back. Those not qualified must step back.
   GM is a classic example of the consequences of extended
managerial in-breeding. Between 1977 and 1983, fewer than 100
salaried workers -- out of well over 100,000 -- were
dismissed annually for poor performance. If someone fails to
produce results, he is usually reassigned to another
location. When Saturn failed to meet production goals for its
launch last year, GM "promoted" Guy Briggs (vice president of
manufacturing operations at Saturn) to corporate vice
president and director of operations for GM's truck and bus
group. Too few are held accountable for poor results.
   GM is also a study in denial, from the arrival of the
first Volkswagen in the 1960s to the delivery of all the
Honda Accords and Lexuses that were sold yesterday. It
indicates that a xenophobic regional management men's club,
led by single-discipline aspirants to power, has within it
its own seeds of destruction. It proves that the postponement
of minor moves will eventually lead to monumental
difficulties requiring draconian actions. It shows that
reasonably well-organized competition can attack weakness,
and that given enough time and enough lack of response a
competitor can become dominant. Crying "unfair competition"
is a defensive reaction taken while refusing to acknowledge
incompetence within.
   There are no political solutions to GM's problems. The
company's battle is in the U.S. car market and in the minds
and hearts of the American car buyer. It squandered the trust
it once had, and now it must work to regain it. That trust
was the biggest asset frittered away. It will be returned to
General Motors when the auto maker proves it deserves it.
   The 13 people that have accepted directorship obligations
from outside General Motors now must do their duty and earn
their compensation and benefits. They and our corporate
capitalist system are now on trial before the American people
and before the world. They must summon the courage to act.
The answers to GM's problems are straightforward and simple.
Their implementation will be one of the most difficult
management tasks in business history.
   For those brought in from the outside and for those
talented contributors currently working for General Motors,
it will not be an impossible job. But the turnaround must be
started at once; a threeyear down-sizing plan is not a plan
to regain market leadership. Misguided loyalty to the past
and to long-time friends can destroy an organization.
   The magnitude of GM's managerial debacle is doing
psychological harm to American executives, workers and
consumers, as well as influencing both our foreign and
domestic policy makers. This is no small matter for the 13
people named in this article to deal with. But deal with it
they must, because no one else can or will. The present GM
management has proved, beyond a shadow of a doubt, that it
cannot handle the situation it has created.
   ---
   Mr. Falvey is a writer and speaker who lives in
Londonderry, N.H.
   (See related letter: "Letters to the Editor: GM Isn't
Broken, Doesn't Need Fixin'" -- WSJ March 23, 1992)
   920203-0094