GM Workers Vote
   Down Concessions
   At Ontario Plant
   ----
   By Michael T. Malloy and Gregory A. Patterson
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
The Oshawa pact had been negotiated between GM's Canadian
unit and local 222 of the Canadian Auto Workers union. Union
officials said it was defeated by 1,747 votes to 1,622.
   Jim O'Neil, secretary-treasurer of the Canadian Auto
Workers, said GM has been "trying to use {employees'}
insecurity" to win concessions and that the vote "should send
a message" to the company.
   The Oshawa complex includes two plants where workers build
GM's midsized Chevrolet Lumina and Buick Regal cars and a
third factory that builds pickup trucks. GM officials said
they haven't assigned a product for the factory that builds
Regals and Luminas after 1994.
   The fact that the vote was held indicates the growing
pressure on union workers. Workers at individual GM factories
are hoping that they won't be affected by the company's broad
restructuring program that calls for 21 factory closings and
elimination of 74,000 jobs by 1995.
   The new pact also would have given GM more authority to
assign workers to various jobs in the plant. Thus, it would
have weakened traditional provisions giving more senior
workers authority to claim the jobs of less senior workers
when layoffs occur.
   GM officials have said the attitudes of local unions will
be a key factor in deciding which plants it will close or
keep open. Three weeks ago, GM announced it would close its
Willow Run assembly plant in Ypsilanti, Mich., and keep open
a factory in Arlington, Texas. Workers at the Texas factory
had offered GM the freedom to schedule around-the-clock
operations and other concessions including far fewer job
classifications than the Michigan plant.
   So far, workers at the other three U.S. car factories that
build midsized models for GM aren't negotiating concessions.
Top leaders of the United Auto Workers union, which
represents GM's U.S. auto workers, oppose concessions to keep
plants alive and have tightened their hold on local units
after failing to prevent Arlington workers from offering
work-rule concessions.