Canada's Farmers
   Set Rally to Keep
   Dairy Controls
   ----
   By John Urquhart
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The planned rally, near the Parliament buildings, is
expected to be one of the biggest demonstrations in Ottawa in
recent years. It will be the climax of a television and
newspaper advertising campaign in support of the controls,
which have been a cornerstone of Canadian farm policy for
more than two decades.
   Canadian Prime Minister Brian Mulroney told dairy industry
leaders that his government will "fight day and night" to
defend their interests in Geneva. But he added: "Our
adversaries on this issue are many and economically
powerful." The negotiations, known as the Uruguay Round, are
due to enter their final phase next month.
   To press the Canadian case, a team of Canadian cabinet
ministers and farm leaders is slated to meet today and
tomorrow with counterparts in Brussels, Geneva and Bonn.
Currently, Canada has only five allies on the issue: Japan,
Norway, Israel, South Korea and Switzerland.
   Mr. Mulroney said "the U.S. is the toughest nut of all" on
the matter, but he pledged to dairy farmers that he would
continue pushing Canada's case with President Bush. U.S.
officials have criticized Canada for being inconsistent in
its trade policy, by demanding import controls on poultry,
eggs and dairy products, while pushing for freer trade for
its grain farmers.
   Many U.S. farmers favor Canada's supply-management system
and have recommended that it be copied in the U.S. "I know of
no clear thinking U.S. dairy farmer who opposes the Canadian
supply-management system," said John Hathaway, chairman of
the dairy committee of the U.S. National Family Farm
Coalition, a Washington-based farm group.
   Canadian consumer groups and food processors, however,
strongly oppose the Canadian system because it has pushed up
Canadian prices for poultry, eggs and dairy products.
Canadian milk prices are as much as 50% higher than in the
U.S. and Canadian chicken prices are as much as 40% higher.
When Canadians shop in U.S. border cities, "gas, booze,
cigarettes, poultry and dairy products top their shopping
lists," said Doreen Guthrie, an analyst at Consumers'
Association of Canada, a consumers' group.
   Ms. Guthrie said the international trade talks provide
Canada with a "unique opportunity" to discard inefficient
production and marketing controls. But she acknowledged that
such a move probably would hurt Mr. Mulroney's unpopular
government, particularly in Quebec province. Quebec has many
small, high-cost dairy farms that wouldn't be profitable if
production and import restrictions were lifted, farm analysts
say.
   "If our government doesn't make a stand for our dairy
program against an onslaught of subsidized American and
European products, a lot of dairy farms are going to die,"
warned a full-page advertisement in major Canadian
newspapers. The ad was paid for by dairy farmers.