Senate Passes Bill
   To Spur Firms' Use
   Of Joint Production
   ----
   By Joe Davidson
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Under the measure, which now goes to the House, firms
notifying both the Justice Department and the Federal Trade
Commission before establishing cooperative ventures that are
later found to have violated antitrust laws would be liable
for single, rather than treble, damages and attorney fees.
The initial clearance wouldn't preclude prosecution if the
ventures subsequently are suspected of violating antitrust
laws.
   The legislation also extends the so-called rule of reason
in such cases, meaning that federal and state courts should
decide each case on its reasonableness rather than
automatically ruling the cooperation is illegal.
   Sen. Patrick Leahy (D., Vt.), one of the main sponsors of
the bill, asserted that companies would now know that "only
unreasonable, anticompetitive ventures could be challenged
and that only actual damages could be assessed."
   Following the vote, Mr. Leahy predicted that "thousands
more Americans will work as a result of this legislation" and
that U.S. companies will enter the next century better able
to compete against Europe and Japan. The bill, he said,
"would allow small and medium-sized firms to maintain their
independence and yet join with other companies for RD and
production when a project was too big, too costly or too
risky to pursue alone."
   Although the bill is primarily expected to benefit smaller
companies, larger firms could also take advantage of such
ventures, if not derailed by the notification procedure. For
example, if rival domestic auto makers notify the Justice
Department and the FTC that they plan to jointly produce a
new car, they likely would face government opposition if the
venture significantly reduced competition.
   The Bush administration at first opposed the legislation
because it required a venture's production facilities to be
located in the U.S. Administration officials had argued that
would conflict with free trade principles.
   But a compromise was reached that would allow
participating companies to locate their principal production
facilities either in the U.S. or in a country that offers
reciprocal antitrust treatment to American firms. The
legislation requires, however, that such ventures must
provide substantial benefits to the U.S. economy.
   Sen. Howard Metzenbaum (D., Ohio) cast the lone vote
against the bill. He argued that it unnecessarily weakened
antitrust laws. Sen. Metzenbaum had objected to having the
full Senate vote on the legislation until three of his
amendments were approved. Those amendments, however, weren't
enough to secure his support for the measure.
   An amendment to the bill to give the president line-item
veto authority of spending bills was defeated after nine and
a half hours of debate, including an eight-hour speech by
Sen. Robert Byrd (D., W.Va.), who gave what he called a
history lesson to a mostly empty chamber.