Canadian Parties Clear Plan to Rewrite
   Constitution to Meet Provincial Demands
   ----
   By John Urquhart and G. Pierre Goad
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
Quebec Premier Robert Bourassa plans to comment in detail
on the federal blueprint tomorrow, a spokeswoman said.
   At first glance the federal plan falls short of the
demands by the ruling Quebec Liberal Party. Opposition leader
Jacques Parizeau told reporters in Quebec City that the
federal plan is "an insult" and urged Mr. Bourassa to reject
it. Mr. Parizeau's Parti Quebecois supports Quebec
independence.
   The all-party report, requested by Prime Minister Brian
Mulroney, is only the first of a number of hurdles that Mr.
Mulroney's Conservative government must cross in its latest
quest for a constitutional settlement that will keep Quebec
in Canada.
   The accord was patched together after hard bargaining
among the three parties, the Conservatives, Liberals and New
Democrats. The agreement was signed less than an hour before
a midnight Friday deadline for submitting the report to
Parliament. However, the report wasn't released until Sunday
afternoon as the three parties scrambled to sort out a jumble
of last-minute changes to the final text.
   The parties recommended that Quebec be recognized in the
constitution as a "distinct society" within Canada. They also
recommended giving Quebec and all other provinces powers in
such areas as manpower training, inland fisheries, and
personal bankruptcy. Quebec would also be assured of three
seats on the nine-seat Supreme Court and would have a veto
over certain constitutional changes.
   Constitutional Affairs Minister Joe Clark said, "Quebecers
should take really great confidence from this."
   Regardless of how Quebecers react, other Canadians aren't
expected to be enthusiastic about the plan. A previous
attempt to reach a constitutional settlement in 1990 failed
mainly because Canadians outside of Quebec objected to giving
Quebec special constitutional status. Opposition to special
powers for Quebec doesn't show any signs of waning. A Gallup
Canada poll last week said 92% of Canadians outside of Quebec
oppose giving the French-speaking province more powers than
other provinces to keep it in Canada.
   Alberta's Deputy Premier Jim Horsman promptly rejected the
proposed constitutional veto for Quebec because he said that
would make other provinces "second class" in constitutional
matters.
   Conservative Gerald Beaudoin, co-chairman of the all-party
committee, said that under the plan "Quebec is getting more"
than in the failed 1990 package of constitutional changes,
known as the Meech Lake accord. But Lucien Bouchard, leader
of the Bloc Quebecois, which supports Quebec independence,
said the all-party plan "is a step backwards" for Quebec.
   Former Prime Minister Pierre Trudeau, who opposes special
status for Quebec, is expected to reassert his views later
this month, a prospect that has all three parties edgy
because of his considerable influence with the public.
   Mr. Mulroney will discuss the all-party plan with the
provinces and national native Canadian leaders over the next
few weeks. The plan would give native Canadians the
constitutional right to self-government.
   The federal government intends to present a final
constitutional reform proposal in mid-April. If that package
wins broad acceptance, the federal and provincial
legislatures would be asked to approve it in a constitutional
amendment bill.
   The process is under deadline pressure because of a Quebec
law requiring a Quebec referendum on independence by October
if the rest of Canada doesn't come up with an acceptable
constitutional plan. Quebec wants a binding offer, which
means that the federal government and the other provinces
must ratify any constitutional reform plan before Quebec
considers it.
   Quebec's threat to hold an independence vote "isn't a
bluff," the province's justice minister warned last week.
"The time is short," the three parties said in their report.
   The current uncertainties are also costly. Financial
analysts say Canadian interest rates would be lower but for
the political uncertainties. Short-term Canadian interest
rates are currently about three percentage points above
comparable U.S. rates. "A wave of politically inspired
capital flight can't be ruled out later this year" if the
constitutional effort fails, warned International Bank Credit
Analyst, a Montreal financial forecasting service.
   The federal government initiated the constitutional
deliberations last September, with a document setting out 28
proposals. The three political parties recommended that some
of the federal proposals be shelved, including a plan to
narrow the Bank of Canada's mandate to focus only on
achieving price stability.