Hubco Says Profit
   For First Period
   Will Be Higher
   ----
   By James C. Hyatt
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Hubco paid $3.4 million to acquire about $370 million in
insured deposits of Broadway Bank  Trust, which operates in
Hubco's northern New Jersey marketing area. Broadway Bank is
a unit of Broadway Financial Corp., Paterson, N.J. The
purchase pushed Hubco's total assets to $1.1 billion, and
boosted the number of branches to 32 offices from 19. It is
New Jersey's 14th largest banking company.
   Mr. Neilson said even though Hubco expenses immediately
the costs of acquiring and converting new banking operations,
its 1991 purchases contributed to earnings last year, as will
the Broadway purchase this year.
   For the first quarter, Mr. Neilson said he expects "a
substantial increase" in net income over the $1.1 million, or
27 cents a share, reported a year ago. "I would be surprised
if we don't show a 20% or greater increase in earnings," he
said.
   Returns from recent acquisitions will contribute to the
gain, he said. Hubco has made five acquisitions in the last
18 months, more than doubling its size.
   "There are enough opportunities that we would be able to
do that again, if we choose to," he said. "But you don't want
to grow faster than you can manage. You don't want to acquire
banks or loan portfolios that might cause trouble in the
future."
   In composite trading yesterday on the American Stock
Exchange, Hubco shares closed at $13.75, up $1.375.
   Mr. Neilson has positive expectations for the quarter
despite what he called the "negative effect" of the Federal
Reserve's recent interest rate cuts. While such moves help
troubled banks refinance nonperforming loans, he said for
healthy banks "it is difficult to reprice your deposits
(shortterm CDs) as quickly as loans are repriced. It all
comes out within a reasonable time, but it does have a
negative effect," he said.
   Hubco identifies its market primarily as consumers and
small to lower-middle-market businesses with as much as $25
million in sales. The average business customer is in the $5
million annual sales area.
   "We lend only to businesses with a proven track record,
and who operate right within our market area," Mr. Neilson
said.