Law:
   Nintendo Suit
   Filed by Atari
   Is Going to Trial
   ----
   By Richard B. Schmitt
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The issue is whether Nintendo employed licensing and
marketing practices that violate U.S. antitrust law. Atari,
based in Sunnyvale, Calif., alleges that Nintendo illegally
carved out an 80% stake in the market and cost consumers
hundreds of millions of dollars in overpriced video games and
gear. For its part, Atari says that between 1986 and 1990, it
suffered $160 million in damages, an amount that by law would
be tripled if it wins its antitrust case.
   "We think the evidence is absolutely overwhelming that
Nintendo deliberately and willfully monopolized the home
video-game market in the U.S.," William Jaeger, Atari's
lawyer, said in his opening statement Tuesday. "Competition
was not simply hurt. It was obliterated."
   Nintendo, meanwhile, says Atari "tried to compete on the
cheap" and lost out because of its own miscalculations,
according to John Kirby, a New York lawyer representing
Nintendo. During opening arguments, Mr. Kirby noted that a
predecessor company, Atari Inc., turned down a chance to
introduce the Nintendo system in the U.S. in 1983. He also
noted that Nintendo is itself being seriously challenged in
the market for the latest video-game technology by a machine
from Sega Enterprises Inc.
   The trial, which is expected to last 10 weeks, is
significant because it is the first time that a jury has
examined recurrent allegations of anti-competitive conduct by
Nintendo. The U.S. district judge in the case, Fern Smith, is
also presiding over other cases that accuse Nintendo of
monopolizing the market for game cartridges and accessories.
Last year, without admitting any wrongdoing, Nintendo settled
Federal Trade Commission charges involving pricing of its
game consoles, but Judge Smith has ruled the accord
inadmissible in the Atari case because of its potential for
biasing the jury.
   "There is a fair odor of sour grapes in the Atari claim,
and yet there are indications that Nintendo was
noncompetitive, predatory and monopolistic," says Bob
Kleiber, an analyst at investment banker Piper Jaffray 
Hopwood in Minneapolis.
   Judge Smith specifically admonished both sides to avoid
the issue during the trial, and during jury selection, she
sought to uncover any prejudice, asking potential jurors
whether they would have a problem with a Japanese company
owning an American baseball team -- which top Nintendo
officials proposed to do just last month. In contrast to the
thumbs down given the idea by organized baseball, none of the
prospective jurors was opposed.
   Nonetheless, "there is no question that Nintendo uses very
hardball marketing strategies, and it will be interesting to
see how an American jury reacts to a Japanese company," says
Boris Feldman, an antitrust lawyer in Palo Alto, Calif.,
specializing in high-tech issues. "If I were representing a
Japanese company, I would not want to go in front of an
American jury."
   Atari's main objections involve the way Nintendo has
enlisted independent software producers to write the video
games that run on its Nintendo Entertainment System consoles.
Until December 1990, Nintendo prohibited licensees from
making their games compatible with competing systems, such as
ones that Atari was trying to develop and popularize, for a
period of two years.
   Antitrust lawyers note that such exclusive licensing
arrangments aren't necessarily illegal and indeed are common
and desirable in certain industries. But Atari's complaint is
that they became illegal because of the market clout that
Nintendo possessed.
   Atari believes that the provision "locked up the entire
capacity of each publisher to make hit games," according to
Mr. Jaeger, and "the thing that did Atari in was they
couldn't get the hit games." Moreover, Atari says, deals that
Nintento cut with major retailers like Toys "R" Us for
valuable shelf space further hurt competition.
   Nintendo's Mr. Kirby defends the licensing deals as "a way
of marketing . . . as normal as apple pie" and a reasonable
way to ensure quality.
   Atari's problem, he says, was underestimating the extent
to which the video-game market would bounce back from a
disastrous plunge in the early 1980s, and deciding to
concentrate instead on making personal computers. Atari Corp.
was created in 1984 when former Commodore Computer Corp. guru
Jack Tramiel purchased some of the assets of Warner
Communications' old Atari Inc.
   Atari Corp. delayed the introduction of a key machine for
nearly two years, giving Nintendo a chance to establish
technical superiority, according to Mr. Kirby. He says
internal Atari memos show that the company skimped on
marketing and software development, and he cites one case of
a major eruption over a $20 overnight delivery bill.
   Analysts say that the results of the case will be closely
watched by other dominant high-technology companies,
including Intel Corp., the chip maker, and software giant
Microsoft Corp.
   Among those expected to testify are Mr. Tramiel and Minoru
Arakawa, the president of Nintendo of America Inc.,
Nintendo's U.S. unit, based in Redmond, Wash. Hiroshi
Yamauchi, president of the Japanese parent, was deposed for
eight days by Atari attorneys in Japan and his testimony was
set to be read into the court record starting yesterday,
although the attorneys were involved in a last-minute
translation dispute.
   Meanwhile, computer paraphernalia, including a
seven-foot-tall Nintendo demonstration console, was creating
such a hum in the courtroom when the proceedings began
Tuesday that Judge Smith said she was worried that she might
not be able to guarantee a clear transcript of the
proceedings. "There is a very loud interference," said the
judge.