Politics  Policy:
   Skinner Brings New Openness and Flexibility
   To White House, But His Style Has Its Pitfalls
   ----
   By John Harwood
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Merely by handing over the phone to his administration
colleague, Mr. Skinner illustrated the new tone he has
brought to the White House as chief of staff. His
controversial predecessor, John Sununu, jealously guarded
access to Mr. Bush and influence over domestic policy, once
rebuking Mr. Sullivan for even discussing health-care
proposals in public without his approval. Now health-care
reform, which Mr. Sununu sought to avoid as a political
liability, has become an important piece of the president's
election-year agenda.
   But the new openness and flexibility that Mr. Skinner has
brought to the White House have their pitfalls, as the
administration learned this week with an embarrassing health
policy flip-flop that interrupted the printing of the
president's budget. And going beyond that one incident, some
inside and outside the administration now raise questions
about the man who was hailed as the answer to White House
staff problems when he arrived just seven weeks ago:
questions about his command of policy, about his political
acumen and about his ability to overcome the problems he
inherited and help Mr. Bush win a second term nine months
from now.
   "The jury's still out," says Thomas "Lud" Ashley, a bank
lobbyist, former congressman and longtime friend of Mr. Bush
who wonders why Mr. Skinner's reorganization of the White
House staff has taken so long. "I like to think he's got the
managerial competence, but I don't think that's shown yet."
   In an interview, Mr. Skinner describes the challenges of
his opening weeks, preparing a new economic stimulus package,
completing the budget and reorganizing the staff while the
president sagged in the polls, as "a test in battle . . . an
awkward situation to be in."
   The uncertainty extends to policy and personnel alike. The
last-minute decision to heed objections from House
Republicans and drop Budget Director Richard Darman's
proposal to tax some employer-provided health benefits, a
proposal Mr. Skinner had known about for weeks, made it
appear that "we don't know what we're doing" on a major
domestic initiative, complained one senior administration
official.
   Nor has Mr. Skinner resolved the structure of his White
House staff. Having failed to lure such veteran Republican
political operatives as Mitchell Daniels and James Lake to
the White House staff, Mr. Skinner recently announced that
the solution to his oft-stated concern about poor
"communications" was to give Press Secretary Marlin Fitzwater
a fancier title and supervision of a sprawling crew of
public-relations specialists. And nearly a week after the
idea surfaced publicly, Republican National Chairman Clayton
Yeutter hasn't yet decided whether to join the staff as
domestic policy czar, a move that would come at Mr. Darman's
expense.
   "I couldn't do everything at once," says Mr. Skinner,
noting that he has taken just one day off since starting his
job. "I don't think anybody would deny I've been working like
a dog." He blames some criticism of his performance on
bruised egos from members of the team he took over."I made a
few mistakes," he says. "I broke a few eggs. I'm in a hurry
to get things done."
   In coming days, the public response to the president's
alternately high-minded and partisan State of the Union
address may dwarf the significance of Mr. Skinner's
management decisions. But the new chief of staff nonetheless
faces a delicate task in trying simultaneously to move Mr.
Bush's program through a Democratic Congress and to position
the president for a tough fall election campaign.
   The early weeks of 1992 haven't been auspicious, from the
president's poorly received Asia trip to his delay in
unveiling his economic proposals. To GOP pollster Lance
Tarrance, among others, the 1992 Bush White House has begun
to evoke memories of the hapless administration of Jimmy
Carter in 1980.
   Admittedly, Mr. Skinner, the former transportation
secretary and Illinois prosecutor once dubbed "Sam the
Hammer," inherited a bad situation. By persuading Mr. Bush to
delay action on the economy late last year, Mr. Sununu and
his allies all but ensured the intense focus that so inflated
expectations for the State of the Union speech. And by
pushing to postpone Mr. Bush's Asia trip from its originally
scheduled date last year, in response to criticism of the
administration's emphasis on foreign policy, Mr. Sununu also
guaranteed that the president would be gone for a critical
10-day period in early January while his program was being
assembled.
   In addition to dealing with those inherited problems, Mr.
Skinner has struggled to ease aside holdovers from Mr.
Sununu's team and assemble his own without benefit of the
traditional honeymoon.
   "It's a little bit like the Soviet transition right now,
the worst of both worlds," says former Carter administration
domestic policy adviser Stuart Eizenstat. The next 60 days,
Mr. Eizenstat adds, will determine whether Mr. Skinner can
overcome "the inherent chaos" of transition and help Mr. Bush
halt his slide in public approval.
   Working in tandem with his longtime friend Robert Teeter,
the pollster who is chairman of the Bush-Quayle re-election
campaign, Mr. Skinner has clearly placed shoring up the
president's Republican base at the top of the political
agenda.
   Initially at least, they've had some success in placating
GOP lawmakers of various ideological stripes who had been
turned off by Mr. Sununu. Moderate Republican Rep. Marge
Roukema of New Jersey, who complained last year that Mr.
Sununu prevented her from meeting with the president to
discuss family leave, still hasn't got her meeting but says
she believes Mr. Skinner is "listening." Conservative GOP
Sen. Trent Lott of Mississippi, once dismissed by Mr. Sununu
as "insignificant," says the same thing, citing Mr. Bush's
decision to propose a more aggressive capital gains tax cut
after conservatives complained to Mr. Skinner about the
initial administration proposal.
   Yet Sen. Lott remains concerned that the president's team
is distant from the anger and anxiety felt among voters
battered by prolonged recession. "I still worry that they
don't have a grip on what people are thinking," says Sen.
Lott, who urges an even more combative White House approach
to government regulation than Mr. Bush declared in announcing
a 90-day moratorium on new regulations Tuesday night.
   Some White House officials argue that Mr. Skinner,
enmeshed in a lengthy organizational review being conducted
by business executive Eugene Croisant, appears more concerned
with communications and procedure than with policy. They also
complain that morale has suffered while Mr. Skinner has
implicitly criticized staff holdovers without making their
new roles clear.
   That's one reason the White House senior staff broke into
applause when Mr. Bush told them he would name Mr. Sununu's
deputy, Andrew Card, as transportation secretary.
   Of the criticism that he cares about process more than
policy, Mr. Skinner says: "I'm a staff man. I'm not president
of the United States. My job is a process job."
   Mr. Bush presents certain challenges for any chief of
staff. In contrast to Ronald Reagan, who left his aides vast
amounts of room in which to implement his policies, Mr.
Bush's style is often highly personal and hands-on. "Bush in
some ways is his own chief of staff," says former Sen. Howard
Baker, who became Mr. Reagan's chief of staff during the
depths of the Iran-Contra affair and has counseled Mr.
Skinner.
   Some administration critics blame the current White House
problems not on Mr. Skinner but on a president who has never
displayed a consistent political philosophy. "The problem the
White House has is finding out if there is an agenda," says
David Keene, president of the American Conservative Union.
   Conservative Republican Rep. Henry Hyde of Illinois says
"it's really too early to tell" whether Mr. Skinner can
succeed, as he's only beginning to be tested under fire from
Capitol Hill and on the campaign trail.
   And moderate GOP Rep. Jim Leach of Iowa says that while
Mr. Skinner is "off to an extremely strong start," bad
economic times make for a heavy burden: "Chiefs of staff in a
recession are the equivalent of agriculture secretaries when
farm prices go into decline."