Foreign Exchange:
   Dollar Surges 1.4% vs. the Yen After G-7
   Fails to Hint at Bolstering Japanese Unit
   ----
   By John van Rosendaal
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
In early trading in Tokyo Tuesday, the dollar was at
125.20 yen, up from 124.57 yen at Monday's close. Meanwhile,
the U.S. currency was trading at 1.6125 marks, up from 1.6043
marks on Monday.
   Dealers bought dollars for other currencies, especially
yen, after the finance ministers and central bankers of the
so-called Group of Seven -- or G-7 -- major industrialized
countries didn't issue a statement in support of a stronger
Japanese currency at their Saturday meeting in Garden City,
N.Y. Comments by monetary officials last week had hinted at
such a statement.
   The meeting's lack of clarity on desired foreign exchange
rates left the market without a sense of direction, traders
said, which subdued trading.
   Further depressing volume was the decision by many dealers
to stay on the sidelines ahead of the annual State of the
Union address by President Bush today, in which he is
expected to outline his plans for getting the weak U.S.
economy on track.
   "The market is just sitting here listlessly, waiting for"
the speech, said Hillel Waxman, chief foreign exchange dealer
at Bank Leumi Trust. He expressed doubts, however, that
Mr.Bush's speech could push the market clearly one way or
another.
   The final G-7 communique called for stronger global
economic growth with low inflation, but added that "the
specific mix of policies would vary depending on the
circumstances in each country." The G-7 members are the U.S.,
Canada, Japan, the U.K., Germany, France and Italy.
   Regarding currencies, the statement said the countries
"agreed to continue to monitor market developments and
reaffirmed their commitment to cooperate closely in exchange
markets, thus contributing to favorable conditions for stable
exchange markets and economic recovery."
   Officials indicated later that the lack of desired
exchange levels pointed to basic satisfaction with the
dollar's levels at the time of the meeting.
   German Finance Minister Theo Waigel said the discussion on
exchange rates had been the "least controversial" in years.
French Economics Minister Pierre Beregovoy added that the
absence of a reference to specific currency levels in the
statement in his view "means that exchange rates are
perfectly OK."
   Mr. Beregovoy and Japanese Finance Minister Tsutomu Hata
had commented ahead of the meeting that the G-7 would aim for
a broadly stronger yen and a stable dollar against European
currencies.
   Many dealers and investors had bought yen last week in
anticipation of such steps, and unwound their so-called long,
or overbought, positions after the G-7 meeting, causing the
dollar to rise. But the dollar's climb was damped by
lingering fears of central bank intervention and uncertainty
over the dollar's strength, traders said.
   The market is "stepping into more dangerous territory,"
said Robert White, a vice president at First Interstate Bank
of California, Los Angeles.
   Traders are uncertain whether the G-7 might have agreed to
keep the dollar below certain levels, or to slow down any
rallies. Dollar sales by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York
at 127.20 yen pushed the dollar down recently and caused
market jitters about possible future intervention.
   Comments by Japan's Mr. Hata and Bank of Japan Governor
Yasushi Mieno Monday kept the markets under pressure. Mr.
Hata noted that G-7 central banks would be prepared to
intervene against any big fluctuations in the foreign
exchange market and said the recent firming tone of the yen
is desirable.
   Mr. Mieno said that stability of Japan's prices and large
trade surpluses suggest that the yen should remain in a "firm
trend," and added that such a trend would be consistent with
the G-7 communique.
   With the intervention fears overhanging the market,
traders are hoping in his speech today Mr. Bush will provide
some clarity on the future of the U.S. economy and therefore
of the dollar. The importance of Mr. Bush's speech is not
only what he announces, but also if and how he succeeds in
putting faith in people's minds that the economy is going to
recover, said First Interstate's Mr. White.
   While Mr. Waxman called the market's focus on President
Bush's address a mistake, he also noted that expectations of
a future U.S. recovery and a slowdown in European economies
are putting upward pressure on the dollar.
   The mark was pressured Monday by this perception of
possible economic weakness, plus rumors, though later denied,
that Russian President Boris Yeltsin had fallen ill.