Government-Securities Brokers Played
   Role in Fall of Some Thrifts, RTC Says
   ----
   By Kevin G. Salwen
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The RTC's study is an updated and expanded review of the
role of government-securities brokers in the thrift crisis.
Last year, the agency detailed how trading in government
securities and complex "derivative" products played a major
role in the failure of 37 SLs taken over by the agency. Both
reports point up a lack of sophistication and competence by
some officials charged with managing thrifts' investment
portfolios.
   Some members of Congress are trying to use the survey as
ammunition to impose oversight on government-securities
brokers, who currently are exempted from sales-practice rules
under the Government Securities Act. The Senate already has
approved legislation that would allow the National
Association of Securities Dealers to create sales-practice
rules, under the guidance of the Securities and Exchange
Commission and the Treasury Department.
   In the House, Rep. Edward Markey (D., Mass.) has
introduced a bill that would give the NASD similar authority,
but wouldn't give the Treasury veto power over the rules, as
the Senate bill dictates. He said the study highlights the
need for rules to "help avoid a repetition of the kind of
speculative trading in unsuitable investments that apparently
contributed to the failures of many of these SLs." The RTC
report was submitted to the House Telecommunications and
Finance Subcommittee, which is headed by Mr. Markey.
   An RTC spokesman said the agency doesn't consider such
losses to be a primary cause of thrift failures. "In the
areas that we have identified as being major causal factors
in failures of SLs, government-securities trading has not
been near the top of the list," he said. "Fraud, insider
abuse, and negligence by officers and directors are much
higher on the list."
   In surveying the failed thrifts, the RTC found that about
238 of the 632 institutions now under the agency's control
had posted losses from the government securities market,
including Treasury securities, derivatives, futures and
mortgage-backed securities.
   Specifically, the survey showed that about 50 SLs had
"large losses associated with U.S. Treasury instruments," 19
of which were engaged in trading with brokerage houses that
are now defunct. In addition, 26 institutions reported
"significant losses" from derivative products used for
hedging or speculation; 39 SLs had losses on futures
operations related to management of interest-rate risk; 28
posted losses from the use of options; and 95 thrifts
reported losses from mortgage-backed securities.
   The RTC also disclosed lawsuits against six brokerage
houses on behalf of four failed thrifts relating to
government-securities losses. Prudential-Bache Securities
Inc. is named in two of the suits, in the failure of East
Texas Savings  Loan Association of Tyler, Texas, and of
Center Savings  Loan Association in Clifton, N.J.
   The agency also has sued Stotler  Co. and Scott M. Krantz
Associates over the failure of American Security of Chicago;
and Conticommodity Services Inc., Heinold Commodities Inc.
and Geldermann Inc. in the failure of Commonwealth Federal
SL of Fort Lauderdale, Fla.
   An RTC spokesman said he couldn't provide details on the
suits.
   A spokeswoman for Prudential Securities Inc. said the
company is "unaware of the issuance of the report."
   In Chicago, officials at Heinold Commodities couldn't be
reached late yesterday for comment on the RTC suit; neither
could the bankruptcy trustee for the now-defunct Stotler,
which collapsed in mid-1990 after it failed to meet
futures-exchange capital requirements.