London Fox
   Eyes Prospects
   For Expansion
   ---
   Commodity Exchange Aims
   To Be Europe's Center
   For Farm-Item Trading
   ----
   By Nicholas Bray
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
After a probing review of its structure and activities,
due to be concluded this month, officials say the exchange,
which is known as Fox, will be in a position soon to look
again at possible expansion.
   This time, however, rather than going for innovations such
as property futures or metals index futures, Fox is expected
to stick to its core areas of interest: soft commodities and
agricultural products.
   In particular, says Phillip Thorpe, Fox's chief executive
officer, it would be "logical" to look at European
agricultural products as an area for future growth. As the
European Community gradually dismantles the price support
mechanisms for agricultural products that have been a
fundamental part of its common agricultural policy, he
predicts, farmers and traders are going to need the
price-hedging facilities that a futures market can provide.
   "While Chicago is well-established, in Paris there's very
little" in the way of futures trading in farm products, he
says. "London should make the most of its position in Europe
to offer itself as the premier market in this time zone."
   London has long been a leading center, along with Chicago
and New York, for trading in commodities such as cocoa,
coffee and sugar. Though the Futures and Options Exchange, as
the organization Mr. Thorpe runs is officially known, was
only born in 1987, it's heir to a tradition that stretches
back to Britain's imperial days.
   Just over a year ago, Fox merged with the Baltic Futures
Exchange, extending its activities to freight futures and a
range of agricultural products. Simultaneously, however, Fox,
like other commodity exchanges, saw itself hit by a decline
in trading on its traditional markets and a fall in the
number of market members.
   Efforts to break into new business areas were to prove
unsuccessful. Last October, Fox made headlines when
regulators disclosed that trading volume on a five-month-old
property futures market had been inflated by phony
noncommercial trades. The property futures market, one of
several new markets created in the hope of boosting business,
was shut down, and the man behind it, Fox chief executive
Mark Blundell, was forced to resign. Fox's chairman, Saxon
Tate, also stepped down, and five brokerage houses were
handed fines ranging from #60,000 to #80,000 (about $107,000
to $143,000).
   Since then, Fox's operations have been the subject of
exhaustive scrutiny. Mr. Thorpe, a professional regulator,
was despatched to Fox on short-term assignment from the
watchdog Securities and Futures Authority, where he was
deputy chief executive. Another former regulator, Andrew
Large, was appointed chairman. Mr. Large, a banker, headed a
precursor to the SFA in the wake of London's "Big Bang"
deregulation move in the late 1980s.
   One of the new team's first acts was to commission a
report on Fox's operations and structure from accounting firm
Arthur Andersen  Co. Its findings, to be published this
month, are expected to include recommendations for changes in
the exchange's accounting, data-processing and compliance
systems. In addition, the report is expected to call for an
overhaul of Fox's membership structure and the way costs are
shared out.
   On a wider level, the report's publication is likely to
reopen debate on an even more controversial issue: Just what
is permissible in nurturing a new market during its initial
teething stages? As Fox's recent experience shows, it's a
tricky question.
   Along with real estate, Mr. Blundell and his team
endeavored to launch a series of other futures markets that
trade on video screens rather than market floors, including
rubber, rice, arabica coffee and a contract based on a metals
price index. When commercial interest failed to materialize,
they tried to keep some of the markets alive with artificial
business. Mr. Blundell, in particular, initiated a series of
trades on the property futures market in the name of Fox
itself, losing in the process a total of #162,055.
   At the time, market participants claim, they had no
suspicion of anything untoward about such practices.
Nonetheless, when the SFA and its supervisor, the Securities
and Investment Board, discovered them, they came down on both
Fox and the market members involved with a vengeance.
   The dummy trades, they asserted, distorted the market by
creating a false impression of trading activity. Mr. Thorpe
describes Mr. Blundell's decision to trade on the market in
the name of the exchange as "unprecedented". As a result of
it, he comments, "transparency and equality, it's probably
fair to say, were not present in the way the property market
was promoted."
   Since the property futures debacle, Fox has closed other
screen-based markets because of a lack of trading interest.
In a bid to save a declining raw sugar futures market, it has
reverted from screen-based trading to trading on a market
floor shared with the coffee and cocoa markets.