Enterprise:
   To Sell to the Japanese, Meet With Them Face to Face
   ---
   Trade Missions Ship U.S. Entrepreneurs
   Overseas to Stir Up Business
   ----
   By Brent Bowers
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Many say a practical approach for newcomers is to join a
trade mission, often sponsored by the American or Japanese
government. The number of these group business-prospecting
trips has increased significantly in the past three years,
says Cheryl Crispen, a spokeswoman for the International
Trade Administration. "More small companies realize that, if
they're willing to make the effort, they can get into Japan,"
she says. Among other boosts, the Japanese government itself
has stepped up import-promotion spending and greatly expanded
its travel program for foreign entrepreneurs.
   For all the barriers, U.S. exports to Japan have nearly
doubled in the past five years. Leslie Stroh, publisher of
the Exporter magazine, says his "gut feeling is that the
smaller exporters are growing a little bit faster than the
big guys."
   A group of U.S. entrepreneurs who made a Tokyo-sponsored
trip to Japan last summer, many for the first time, to test
the waters say the effort is already starting to pay. While
one or two companies struck out, most returned convinced the
time has come to market their products there. Some are now
cutting deals.
   Richard Russell went a skeptic and came back a believer.
His Tech Spray Inc. of Amarillo, Texas, a maker of chemicals
for the electronics industry, had tried to break into the
Japanese market a decade earlier and "couldn't even get the
products through customs," he says.
   Concluding that the Japanese were obstructing trade, Tech
Spray pulled out. Mr. Russell says he only accepted the
invitation from the Japan External Trade Organization to fly
to Tokyo last August because the trip was free.
   To his surprise, he found the Japanese receptive. He
credits the Bush administration for keeping the pressure on
Tokyo to open up the market for foreign goods. The New
York-born entrepreneur found a Japanese distributor, and it
already has placed two test orders worth several thousand
dollars.
   Mr. Russell plans to fly back to solidify his partnership
and meet new customers in May. "They're very big on building
relationships," he says. He believes Japan could eventually
account for 5% or more of his $12 million in annual business.
Better yet, he says, a presence in Japan should increase his
credibility in the more important Southeast Asia market.
   Another company, Ford Meter Box Inc., a Wabash, Ind.,
maker of fittings for underground water lines, says an Osaka
company is at the point of placing an initial order in the
"thousands of dollars." Carl Doran, senior vice president in
charge of international sales who took part in the trade
mission, says he expects Japanese purchases to grow into the
hundreds of thousands of dollars. "To do business in Japan,
you've got to go over and meet the people," Mr. Doran says.
   One American in last August's trip who wasn't a newcomer
to Japan was Hillard Witt, president of Andermac Inc. of Yuba
City, Calif. He first made the trip in 1989 and realized he
would have to redesign his health-care equipment if he wanted
to make inroads. He did, and this past October Andermac
signed a half-million-dollar contract to provide
patient-lifting devices. Mr. Witt returned last Friday to
negotiate a second agreement. And his company has begun
marketing a Japanese product -- a special toilet seat for the
disabled.
   Andermac has annual revenue of a little under $10 million,
Mr. Witt says, and "Japan is an important part of our
strategic future." To make it there, he says, "You have to go
over there several times. You can't do it by fax and phone."
   Norand Corp. of Cedar Rapids, Iowa, also planned ahead.
The provider of portable computer systems for inventory
control decided in 1990 to take a shot at the Japanese
market.
   Norand did extensive market research and altered its
equipment to meet Japanese requirements. For example, it
enlarged the display screens of hand-held computers. Arvin
Danielson, a senior executive with the company, now spends so
much time in Japan -- including the August trade mission --
that he has a new title: senior managing director of Japanese
business.
   His efforts paid off. In January, Norand opened a Tokyo
office, and last month, it signed a pilot account with a
Japanese transportation company that Mr. Danielson says is
"potentially worth" $5 million. "If you can provide quality,"
he says, "the Japanese market's wide open."
   Even firms that haven't gone beyond the talking stage say
they are optimistic. White Swan Ltd. of Beaverton, Ore., for
example, says it plans a joint venture with Japan's Yamano 
Associates to market its flower-seed mixtures for specialized
gardens. "We met with them twice. We're on the same wave
length," says White Swan Chairman Hal Saltzman, husband of
founder Ruth Saltzman.
   Yet, some in the U.S. group that traveled to Japan last
summer are disappointed. Bill Anstine, vice president of SRI
Gallup of Lincoln, Neb., says he gained cultural insights but
little else.
   SRI Gallup evaluates job applicants. With Japanese
corporations more worried about middle-level management
turnover and eager to find top U.S. talent for operations in
this country, Mr. Anstine thought he'd be a hit. He was
wrong. "I didn't accomplish much," he says ruefully. "I don't
think they quite understood what we were talking about."
   Of course, the vast majority of small U.S. companies don't
take part in official trade missions. And plenty of them
remain distrustful of Japan Inc. George Denoncourt, president
of Marspec Corp. of Troy, N.Y., a maker of customized
computers, argues that Japan engages in a "colluded form of
trade" in which powerful Japanese companies refine Western
innovations, with government encouragement, and then dump
their products on foreign markets.
   Nevertheless, even small businesses that venture to Japan
on their own can succeed. Airsep Corp. of Amherst, N.Y., has
made millions of dollars in licensing fees for its
air-separation equipment in Japan, says Ravi Bansal,
president. The licensing agreement contains a clause barring
the Japanese licensee from exporting the equipment. He
believes his devices are more than a match for his main
Japanese rival. "I've beaten them in Taiwan," he boasts.