Trimble Hopes to Turn Military Success
   Into a Victory With Consumers at Home
   ----
   By Stephen Kreider Yoder
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The so-called "global positioning" devices use signals
from satellites to calculate a user's position anywhere in
the world. The makers of the devices, which until recently
often cost $10,000 or more, now are aiming new models at
broad consumer markets.
   Trimble's product, which will probably sell at a "street
price" of under $1,000, "gives us a very visible, high-volume
product" that will help the company find other consumer
niches, Mr. Trimble said. Trimble's strategy is to take the
same set of electronic innards and build them into a variety
of products tailored to specific markets, he said.
   The company is working on a model for pilots, for example,
and is looking at leisure markets as well. "For a hunter, it
would be awfully useful to know how far you are from the
truck before you shoot the elk," Mr. Trimble said.
   By producing a broad line of consumer devices, Trimble is
seeking to avoid direct mass-market battles with the likes of
Sony. Trimble's new device, which determines a user's
position to within 80 feet, has a battery life of up to five
hours under continuous use. By contrast, Sony's 1.5-pound
positioning device, which uses the same satellite signals,
lists at $1,395 and has a battery life of about two hours
under continuous use. Trimble expects to begin shipping its
product in April.
   Trimble, Sunnyvale, Calif., was a big beneficiary of the
Gulf War, during which the U.S. military ordered thousands of
its positioning devices. The sales windfall helped Trimble
drive down the prices of its devices, and profits from those
sales allowed the company to invest $5 million in a highly
automated production line.
   Trimble also expects the new model to reduce its
dependence on sales to the military. The company posted a
fourth-quarter net loss after military orders fell to just 8%
of revenue from 38% in the third quarter. And the company
will post a net loss in the current first quarter if it
doesn't get a major military order, Mr. Trimble said.
   The executive said Trimble is taking steps to insulate
itself from the revenue see-saw caused by swings in military
demand. To help control costs, the company cut salaries by
between 2% and 25% last month, he said, and is focusing
heavily on new commercial markets.
   The new device's impact on Trimble's sales will be
"substantial" in the second quarter, Mr. Trimble said.
Second-quarter earnings will also be boosted by several other
products the company will bring to market or start producing
in large volume this spring, Mr. Trimble said. "We expect to
return to profitability in the second quarter even without
any military demand," he added.