Changed Climate:
   California, the Place
   Long in the Sun, Now
   Is Clouded by Doubts
   ---
   Its Unemployment Is High,
   Some Firms Are Leaving,
   Roads and Schools Lag
   ---
   High Cost of New Arrivals
   ----
   By Frederick Rose
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
But now Mrs. Puldas is part of another wave -- one of
thousands of workers laid off in California's contracting
economy. The 45-year-old mother of three says she is hunting
for another job, but her vision of the Golden State has
changed.
   "As I look at California, I get a little scared," she
says.
   Buried in recession, the state that once swelled with
confidence is swept by doubt -- doubt that is blighting the
nation's most populous state and the birthplace of much of
its popular culture and many of its trends. California
recovered rapidly from every economic downturn since World
War II. But this recession is finally making Californians
come to terms with a recent past in which problems were
papered over and a future in which they may have to make
difficult choices from an unappetizing menu. Business as
usual could lead eventually to far less business.
   Gov. Pete Wilson says that, without big changes, the state
could be "headed for a fiscal train wreck." Highways, schools
and even aqueducts are being increasingly strained by a
population that has grown by nearly six million in the past
10 years and may add an equal number in the 1990s. The
defense industry, which has fueled growth since the 1950s and
pulled the state out of past downturns, is fading swiftly.
   Other states are suffering, too, but California's problems
are all the more unnerving because of the heights from which
it has slipped. Even once-boosterish business interests are
bad-mouthing the state, complaining that overregulation is
driving companies out. Political analysts are asking whether
the anger may turn California -- home to one in eight
Americans -- against President Bush in November.
   Barely a year ago, worry about too much growth prompted
Gov. Wilson to appoint a study panel. Expansion seemed
unbounded in a land where the desert was made to bloom.
Through the 1980s, California's economy swelled at nearly
half again the national pace. Home prices soared at a rate
double the national average; the 1981-82 recession, though
sharp, barely budged the housing market here. Coddled by such
gains, many residents grew overconfident. Bumper stickers
proclaimed, "Prosperity: Your Divine Right." But, apparently,
prosperity can run out of gas.
   At 7:30 a.m., commuter traffic inching southward on
Interstate 80 stretches as far as the eye can see down the
east side of San Francisco Bay, and Michael Wilkes, a traffic
engineer, is watching as his car's speedometer sinks to zero.
Nearby, cars jam a freeway entrance, and, to assist future
highway planning, Mr. Wilkes notes variations in the
morning's traffic patterns. On the seat beside him, a laptop
computer records his car's stops and starts, a jagged
performance showing how the drive from the fast-growing
northeastern suburbs to San Francisco is getting slower and
slower.
   For 20 years, engineers have wanted to widen this
30-year-old highway, but a shortage of money and regional
rivalries have stalled them -- and Bay Area commuters every
workday spend a total of nearly 60,000 hours mired in traffic
jams. Officials say they hope to start work on I-80 soon.
   Statewide, travel on California's highways has more than
doubled since 1970, while the miles of highway lanes have
increased barely 15%. "We've seen congestion mount at an
exponential rate, angering people," says Lawrence D. Dahms,
executive director of the Metropolitan Transportation
Commission in Oakland.
   In California's expansionist heyday, building roads and
railroads was practically a state religion. In the booming
1960s, more than $1 billion was budgeted for the Bay Area's
subway system alone.
   But for two decades, investment in public facilities has
taken a back seat to burgeoning social programs. So one of
California's greatest strengths -- its infrastructure -- has
fallen far behind its growth, and an economy that, standing
alone, would rank as the world's eighth-largest is being
short-changed of everything from bridges to baccalaureate
degrees.
   In the 1950s and 1960s, California spent more than 20
cents of every state-budget dollar on capital projects. That
slice dwindled to less than a nickel in the 1980s, and most
of that was borrowed. Proposition 13 in 1978 and subsequent
tax-cutting measures have locked in place a tight-fisted
stance. Over the years, voters have rejected hundreds of
measures to raise money for projects ranging from primary
schools to prisons. Last year, more than two-thirds of all
city and county bond measures failed.
   "California is suffering the shortsightedness of its
leadership and its voters for a decade and longer," says
Goetz Wolff, an economist and consultant in Los Angeles.
   Over many years, California built an educational system
that produced one of the world's most admired technological
bases. California State University was created to back up the
elite University of California. Now educating 366,000
students, California State's 20 campuses produce
three-quarters of the state's teachers and much of its
high-tech work force. But the nation's largest college system
is also severely strained, with budgets being slashed and
students being turned away.
   On the first day of an introductory English writing class
at San Jose State University, 39 students pack a small,
crowded classroom. Some are perched on top of desks. Others
stand against the walls as they listen to a list of names
resonant of a new multi-ethnic California. "Chueng, Iwamoto,
Niedzie, Noia," instructor Carolyn Walker reads from a list
of those admitted. "Ramchandani, Ratliffe."
   Only two-thirds of the students will get into the course,
a basic requirement for advancement and graduation, after
being selected through a computerized lottery. As Ms. Walker
finishes reading, many of the students not on the list start
leaving. One of them, 18-year-old Nissa Foss, mutters, "There
are a lot of unhappy people around here."
   "Here" is Silicon Valley, California's technological
heartland, where education is slipping. San Jose State, which
provides twice as many engineers for Silicon Valley companies
as any other university, has cut its faculty this year by 12%
and its classes nearly 20%. And a 40% increase in tuition
this year, to about $1,500, is straining the California State
system's populist premise of low-cost education -- and social
and economic opportunity -- for all.
   "Just when California is worrying about its economic
future, about corporations moving out, and about the possible
demise of the middle class, the quality of higher education
is being put at risk," complains Barry Munitz, the system's
chancellor.
   From a Father-Knows-Best vision of homogeneity, California
has become a colloidal mix of dozens of cultures. In the
second half of the 1980s, nearly half of newcomers to the
state were foreigners. Though many see eventual strengths in
that influx, which is expected to continue, some state
leaders complain that it will push up public expenditures
rapidly. "We've got ill-educated, unskilled laborers coming
in; they have a raft of social needs," says Richard Sybert,
director of Gov. Wilson's Office of Planning and Research.
   School and college populations are rising far faster than
the tax base. "Even with an economic rebound, California will
continue to face difficult budgetary decisions through the
decade ahead," Gov. Wilson says in his latest financial plan.
   The governor and his advisers argue that spending,
taxation and regulation all must change dramatically. He is
seeking special authority to reduce eligibility for welfare
services and the payments themselves, as well as other budget
controls that he says are needed to curtail costs.
   The strains were different in earlier decades. The state's
population jumped 50% in the 1940s and another 50% in the
1950s, as people first flooded in to build warships and
warplanes during World War II and then many who had passed
through on their way to battle in the Pacific decided they
liked California and settled here after the war. But those
"immigrants," though proportionately twice the size of
today's immigration, came from elsewhere in the U.S.
   California became an American melting pot by the sea.
Schools, highways, colleges and water systems were built at
enormous cost. But, in many ways, the influx was simply the
last step of what Americans had been doing for two centuries
-- moving west. Mostly middle-class and suburban, with an
exotic touch of beaches and palm trees, California came to
symbolize an essence of America.
   For years, the state easily absorbed the newcomers by
generating jobs faster than any other part of the country --
60% faster than the nation as a whole since 1960. Although
recessions and consequent layoffs occasionally slowed the
spectacular growth, only twice in 30 years -- until last year
-- had employment actually fallen; those dips, in 1971 and
1982, were minor.
   But last year, something very different happened. More
than 600,000 jobs were lost, and the total plunged 4.8%.
"These problems really are without precedent," says David
Hensley, director of the Business Forecasting Project at the
University of California at Los Angeles. The group views
further layoffs as "inevitable" in some industries.
   For example, employment in construction, one of
California's traditionally strong businesses, has plunged
more than 25% from its pre-recession peak. Two years ago,
Brian McGraw had more work than he could handle, employing a
crew of 20 men to paint huge housing tracts sprouting in the
desert north of Los Angeles. "It was nonstop," the tall
28-year-old recalls. "We did 3,000 houses in three years."
Money rolled in: $25,000 of revenue in a good week. Then the
music stopped. "People went from building tracts of 100 or
more houses to 10," Mr. McGraw says.
   Now, the father of three children is painting houses
himself, one at a time. And, he says, "I've had to drop my
price as much as 50% to get business. It's that tough out
there."
   How tough? After soaring early in the 1980s, defense
spending in California has tumbled more than 25% since 1990,
with further cuts looming. Banking, once a fastgrowing
employer, is contracting, squeezed by mergers and outright
failures. And foreign investment, which in the 1980s surged
in California as in few other states, is dwindling rapidly.
   Even more unsettling, a recent survey of 1,400 companies
around the state found 23% planning to move some or all of
their operations out of California; they complained of rising
taxes and burdensome regulations.
   But whether many of those with itchy feet actually will
move isn't certain. Southern California Edison Co., the big
electric utility that serves much of the state's heavy
industry, has tracked corporate customers that said they
planned to leave. It found that, after 18 months, one in five
companies had moved, but they accounted for less than one in
20 of the total employees of the surveyed companies.
   Nonetheless, the lesson is clear. "We are not irresistible
to business, and that is dawning on people," says Mr. Sybert,
Gov. Wilson's planning chief. "There is no doubt in anyone's
mind that we have a serious problem."
   Not long ago, Zero Corp., a Los Angeles maker of aluminum
cases and air-cargo containers, was hunting for new
manufacturing facilities. After a study, it closed two
operations in the Los Angeles area and opened a plant in Salt
Lake City. There, the cost of health insurance was about 60%
of that in Los Angeles, and workers' compensation cost was
roughly one-third that in California.
   Such disparities persuade Wilford Godbold, Zero's chief
executive, that California, despite its sunny weather, vast
markets and technological edge, risks not being able to
attract or retain companies.
   "California is right on top of a cliff," he contends.
People who don't believe that companies will move, he
believes, "are putting their head in the sand."