Supporting Her Choice When It Isn't Abortion
   ----
   By Beth Diemert
The work of the CPCs is barely noticed, since we toil in
the confidential environment of one-to-one counseling. We
don't get the publicity regularly afforded to highly visible
pro-life activities like Operation Rescue. As a result, many
still have the impression that there are no pro-lifers
willing to give practical assistance to mothers who decide to
keep their babies or put them up for adoption.
   But Rep. Ron Wyden (D., Ore.) did the CPC network a favor
in October -- albeit unintentionally. His one-sided attack on
CPCs that advertise "abortion information" (no pro-lifers
were invited to testify at his subcommittee hearings) put
CPCs in the national headlines for the first time. Thanks to
Rep. Wyden, a few more Americans know what CPCs are and what
we are doing. Now let me give you a few reasons why you
should care:
   -- We generate private support for essential societal
values. The current rash of deep cuts in welfare funding, as
state after state grapples with severe budget strains,
threatens to expand further the social epidemic of
inadequately prepared parents and neglected children. In
contrast, CPCs provide caring relationships with a personal
touch, in addition to free clothing and other baby items, to
help the mother and child get off on the right foot. Those
relationships continue well beyond the mother's delivery day.
   "Crisis Pregnancy Centers are primarily staffed by
volunteers and usually one underpaid staff person," says
Thomas Glessner, president of the Christian Action Council.
"They are funded totally by private donations and . . . the
committed men and women who staff these centers are motivated
out of love and concern for both the woman in crisis and her
baby."
   -- We have no hidden agenda. Christian Action Council
centers never indicate or imply that we perform abortions. It
is our policy not to advertise under "Abortion" in the phone
book, although some independent centers have done so when the
phone company declined to create a separate "Abortion
Alternatives" category.
   And we are extremely careful about our methods of
counseling. Although we believe a human life is at stake in
every abortion decision, we also have known, long before Rep.
Wyden's hearings, that our opponents are hungry for evidence
that we brutalize already traumatized pregnant women with
"you'd better not murder your baby" rhetoric.
   Here's a typical example of how we do behave. In one case
at one of our centers, a brand-new volunteer met with a
married couple considering an abortion. She provided them
with material on fetal development and noted that the fetus
involved was already mature enough to have visible
fingerprints. After the meeting, she hoped and prayed that
the mother would conclude that her baby deserved to live.
   But when her follow-up call brought the grim response of
"We've made an appointment for an abortion," the volunteer
patiently explained that the CPC also offers post-abortion
counseling and that the couple would always be welcome to
come back. "We want you to know that we still care about
you," she concluded.
   Of course, there are many times, as in this case, when we
are deeply saddened by a decision that a client makes and
feel that she doesn't really understand what she is doing.
But we don't judge her. Brandy, a 17-year-old client in one
of our centers, said, "I wanted them to tell me what to do,
but they wouldn't. They told me about all of the alternatives
and helped me make a list of the pros and cons of each."
Brandy decided to carry her baby to term and is still in
touch with the center.
   The CPCs are committed to doing what it takes to show that
our concern for women is unselfish, unmanipulative and
unconditional. The Christian Action Council's statement of
principles, which must be agreed to by all its affiliates,
states in part, "The CPC denounces any form of deception in
its corporate advertising or individual conversations with
clients."
   -- We want to help bridge one of this nation's most
divisive issues. We share the concern of many national
leaders that the abortion debate keeps us from moving on to
other pressing issues. Of course, that does not mean we are
ready to drop this issue, for we believe that any society
that permits its commitment to the sanctity of life to erode
is on the way to disintegration. But we also believe that if
anyone is offering real options to pregnant women -- options
of the type upon which a broad social consensus can be built
-- it is us.
   While the other side of the debate talks a lot about
choice, the National Abortion Rights Action League (NARAL),
for example, does not offer material assistance, housing, or
other support to enable a woman in crisis to choose life for
her baby. Likewise, the National Organization for Women is
silent when it comes to generating support services for women
who want to carry their babies to term. Instead, these two
organizations emphasize and promote one choice and one choice
only for a woman in crisis -- abortion. We believe that the
more people work with us, and the more women we are able to
serve, the less often abortion will appear to be the best
choice for women with crisis pregnancies.
   If the U.S. can ever resolve its abortion wars peacefully,
there is no better place to do so than at the doorstep of a
CPC.
   ---
   Ms. Diemert is the president of the Greater Pittsburgh
Coalition of Crisis Pregnancy Centers, an affiliate of the
Christian Action Council.