What's News --
   World-Wide
Environmental groups supported the president's action, but
said it falls short of what is needed to deal with the
thinning of the protective ozone layer.
   ---
   THE SUPREME COURT REFUSED to halt the forced return of
Haitian refugees.
   The high court, however, ordered the Justice Department to
respond by Friday to the latest emergency request by lawyers
for the Haitians that the repatriation process be halted. The
request, filed Monday, said the refugees face persecution
upon return to their homeland and alleged that U.S. officials
know that some repatriated Haitians have been tortured and
killed. But the State Department reiterated that it hasn't
found solid evidence of persecution.
   Only Justice Blackmun voted yesterday to block the forced
returns to Haiti pending the Bush administration's response
and further court action.
   ---
   Russian citizens voiced both gratitude and humiliation as
they began receiving humanitarian aid arriving on U.S.
planes. The two-week airlift consists mainly of food and
medicine left over from the Gulf War. The newspaper Izvestia
expressed hope that the airlift will turn out to be "a
rehearsal, a prologue, for much larger actions."
   ---
   France's center-right opposition failed to topple the
Socialist government, falling short of the majority required
to pass a no-confidence vote. Meanwhile, an aide to President
Mitterrand said the unpopular prime minister, Cresson, is
likely to be ousted after regional elections next month.
   ---
   Ukraine warned Russia against "imperial" policies and
accused its neighbor of freezing all of Ukraine's hard
currency assets, estimated at $425 million, in Moscow bank
accounts. Ukrainian leader Kravchuk said disputes with Russia
over the Black Sea fleet and the Crimea threaten the future
of the Commonwealth of Independent States.
   ---
   Girls don't receive the same quality of education as boys
in the nation's public schools, according to a report. Girls
and boys enter school roughly equal in measured ability, but
after 12 years girls trail their male classmates in areas
such as mathematics and sciences, as well as measures of
self-esteem, researchers said.
   ---
   A bomb scare disrupted central London hours before a visit
to the area by Vice President Quayle and separately scheduled
security talks on Northern Ireland. Police said they
deactivated a bomb in a telephone booth in Whitehall, where
many government ministries are located. Streets in the area
were closed off temporarily.
   ---
   Bush declared that Iraq still poses an "unusual and
extraordinary threat" that justifies maintaining economic
sanctions against Baghdad. In a written report to Congress,
the president said the Iraqi government hasn't complied fully
with U.N. Security Council resolutions that were put in place
after the Persian Gulf War.
   ---
   Germany angrily rejected Russia's calls for more money to
finance the withdrawal of troops from eastern Germany and
accused Moscow of violating their agreement. German Economics
Minister Moellemann said Bonn already was providing funds for
the troop pullout and economic aid for the former Soviet
republics.
   ---
   Albert Reynolds was formally elected Irish prime minister,
and he swiftly installed a new cabinet to replace supporters
of his deposed predecessor, Charles Haughey. Reynolds said in
his inaugural speech that he would tackle "the very many
grave problems facing us," including the nation's record
unemployment rate.
   ---
   Venezuela ended press censorship, and the nation's
newspapers quickly returned to newsstands with articles
criticizing the government in the wake of last week's failed
coup. President Perez also moved to reduce the chances of
another military uprising by ordering his defense minister to
replace several senior army officers.
   ---
   Armenian leader Ter-Petrosian met with Secretary of State
Baker in Yerevan and appealed for U.S. help in resolving a
feud with neighboring Azerbaijan. Separately, Armenian
militants launched an offensive in the disputed region of
Nagorno-Karabakh by capturing an Azerbaijani village and
killing several people, Russian media reported.
   ---
   Philippine President Aquino told reporters she was
considering forming an anti-Marcos front to defeat former
First Lady Imelda Marcos and other presidential candidates
identified with the late dictator. The front would consist of
backers of Fidel Ramos, Aquino's personal choice, and
supporters of House Speaker Ramon Mitra.
   ---
   A former top CIA official speculated that two Libyans
charged by the U.S. and Britain with blowing up Pan Am Flight
103 in 1988 may have been killed by Libya in a bid to evade
international sanctions. But a British lawyer said he saw the
two men with their attorney yesterday in Tripoli.