Law -- Legal Beat:
   `Green Marketing' Labeling Law
   Piques Food Industry Coalition
   ----
   By Arthur S. Hayes and Junda Woo
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
The coalition's members include the Association of
National Advertisers, the Grocery Manufacturers of America,
the Soap and Detergent Association, the National Food
Processors Association and the U.S. Chamber of Commerce.
   The law says that a product cannot claim to be "recycled"
if its contents are less than 10% "post-consumer" or recycled
material. It also says products can only be called
"recyclable" if recycling facilities are conveniently
available in every county in the state with a population of
more than 300,000.
   Floyd Abrams, a partner at the New York law firm Cahill,
Gordon  Reindel, which represents the coalition, says the
"statute is so rigidly and woodenly written as to ban the use
of truthful and accurate speech."
   The law, which went into effect last month, is
California's effort to rein in "green marketing" --
advertising and labeling that capitalizes on consumer demand
for products that don't harm the environment. Violating the
law is a misdemeanor, punishable by up to six months in jail,
a $2,500 fine or both.
   The law was passed to combat misleading labeling such as
the promotion of some disposable diapers as recyclable when
in fact recycling facilities for the diapers were generally
unavailable.
   California Assemblyman Byron Sher, the law's sponsor, said
he doesn't believe the law violates the First Amendment's
standards for protection of commercial speech because "I
believe it's a rational approach."
   According to the U.S. Supreme Court, a law that restricts
commercial speech must directly advance the "governmental
interest asserted" and must be no broader in its restriction
than necessary. Commercial speech that misleads or promotes
illegal activity is not protected by the U.S. Constitution.
   Mr. Abrams, the lawyer for the coalition, called the
California law overly broad because it prevents speech that
is truthful and advocates a political position.
   For example, Mr. Abrams said, a label on a steel can
cannot read, "Recyclable . . . where facilities exist.
Support recycling." That means consumers aren't allowed to
decide for themselves if they want to buy a product with such
a label and are prevented from reading a label that urges
them to push for recycling facilities in their county, Mr.
Abrams argued.
   Dan Jaffe, executive director of the Association of
National Advertisers, one of the plaintiffs, said the suit is
important because California is one of the country's largest
markets, with 10% of the nation's population. He said the
state now "clearly has the most restrictive" of the laws
aimed at regulating false and misleading claims about
environmentally friendly products. Five other states have
less restrictive laws, he says.
   Mr. Jaffe said the coalition fears that if the trend
continues, manufacturers and advertisers will be faced with
50 different state laws with different definitions of
permissible advertising language. The Federal Trade
Commission is currently considering adopting a national
standard for "green marketing" language.
   Assemblyman Sher said that if the Federal Trade Commission
comes up with a national standard, "we'll defer to them."
   A spokesman for California's attorney general's office
said, "We don't think it violates First Amendment rights." He
said the state expects to file its response next week.
   ---
   FINLEY, KUMBLE SETTLES last remaining appeal of bankruptcy
plan.
   If approved by U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Prudence B. Abram,
the settlement with a former client of Finley, Kumble,
Wagner, Heine, Underberg, Manley, Myerson  Casey will allow
the Chapter 11 reorganization of the defunct national law
firm to go forward after four years of litigation.
   The client, Richard Traweek, a California real estate
executive, opposed a measure in the bankruptcy plan that
prohibited future suits against individual Finley partners by
creditors and other claimants. Mr. Traweek, who alleges
malpractice by Finley partners, will receive up to $4.3
million from a trust set up to compensate Finley's
malpractice claimants.
   The issue as to whether individual partners could face
lawsuits separate from the firm's bankruptcy proceeding was
of critical importance to the reorganization. Former partners
said they contributed to the bankruptcy plan because they
wanted that protection against separate suits.
   Under partnership law, partners are liable if a firm is
insolvent. But many Finley partners balked at paying the
firm's debts, saying they weren't responsible for its
spectacular demise. It's now expected that all but a handful
of Finley's 284 partners will contribute a total of $40
million to the bankruptcy plan.
   Finley, once the nation's fourth largest law firm, filed
for bankruptcy-court protection in February 1988 and owes
creditors $190 million.
   ---
   NEW TEAMSTERS general counsel is named.
   The International Brotherhood of Teamsters selected the
New York law firm Cohen, Weiss  Simon to be its primary law
firm and appointed two partners in the firm, Richard N.
Gilberg and Susan Davis, to be general counsel and associate
general counsel.
   Cohen, Weiss was chosen by Teamsters President Ron Carey,
who was elected to a five-year term last year. Mr. Carey's
election came as a result of a government-supervised effort
to rid the 1.6 million-member union of organized crime
influence. The election was ordered as part of a consent
decree the union signed two years ago to settle a massive
civil racketeering suit brought by the U.S. Justice
Department. Mr. Carey spent most of his union career as the
president of a Teamsters local in New York.
   Mr. Gilberg said the 28-lawyer Cohen, Weiss has
represented Mr. Carey's New York local as well as other
unions including the Airline Pilots Association and the
National Association of Letter Carriers.
   Cohen, Weiss succeeds James Grady of the Boston law firm
Grady  Dwyer as the Teamsters' chief law firm.
   ---
   COUPLE IS BOUND by clause banning oral modifications to
divorce decree.
   New York's highest court reversed a lower court that had
allowed oral changes to a divorce decree, even though the
decree specifically prohibited such modifications.
   The case involved a Long Island woman who continued to
live in her exhusband's house after a failed reconciliation.
The divorce decree barred her from living there, but the
woman said she and her ex-husband had orally agreed she could
stay until the house was sold. The ex-husband disagreed and
sued.
   The lower court, noting that even nomodification
settlements may be changed if the parties' behavior
"unequivocally" proves they had an oral agreement, allowed
the woman to stay because she was paying rent to her
ex-husband. But the high court in Albany decided the payments
didn't constitute proof that the woman was free to stay as
long as she wanted.
   Eric A. Seiff, the woman's lawyer, said he disagreed with
the ruling.
   (Klein vs. Klein, State of New York Court of Appeals, No.
13)