Manager's Journal:
   When Quality Control Gets in the Way of Quality
   ----
   By Graham Sharman
What is to be done with these "stalled" programs? We at
McKinsey have found the following to be useful:
   -- Shut down programs in businesses where dramatic change
in economic performance is needed. Quality management
programs yield incremental, not dramatic, improvements.
Sagging profits and depressed sales call for tougher
measures, such as radical downsizing, restructuring, or
purging of superfluous management layers. If you have a
gradual improvement program in place to sap losses, bite the
bullet and shut it down.
   After taking over as CEO of Alcoa, one of Paul O'Neill's
first initiatives was to shut down Alcoa's decade-long
quality effort because, he told Business Week last October,
"the business needed restructuring and dramatic change, not
gradual improvement over several years." To close the gap in
competitiveness and productivity between Alcoa and some of
the leading aluminum companies, such as Kobe Steel, he opted
for a "quantum improvement" program like benchmarking.
   -- Link programs to strategic planning processes. If
incremental improvement is what you need, make sure you
evaluate programs as part of your strategic planning
processes; set specific goals for your senior managers and
make these goals part of their performance reviews. Some
companies like Allen-Bradley and Corning are already doing
this. They incorporate quality improvement objectives in the
bonus plans of senior executives.
   But while you set priorities and objectives for your
managers, do not let them, in turn, set goals for lower-level
employees. It is demotivating and ineffective. Over and over
we find that, given some guiding principles or areas for
improvement, they set much higher goals for themselves.
Reward them for reaching their goals. John Cleghorn,
president of Royal Bank of Canada, was recently quoted in the
Toronto Globe  Mail as saying that "quality companies put
faith in their people. . . . When employees see their
opinions are valued, they see themselves making a difference
to the success of the company. And they do."
   -- Focus programs outward on market "break points." It is
one thing to stress the importance of customer satisfaction;
it is quite another to actually achieve measurable
improvements. For a computer company, achieving on-time
delivery rates below 90% may be judged by customers as
unacceptable, while above 98% is judged clearly outstanding;
anything in between is just satisfactory. On-time delivery
improvement programs should be geared toward reaching either
90% or 98% -- the market "break points" where improved
performance will change customer behavior, resulting in
higher prices or sales volume. Forget the improvement program
that targets between 90% and 98%. You are wasting money.
   MBNA Corp., the fourth-largest creditcard issuer in the
U.S., keeps its customers twice as long as the industry
average because it religiously focuses on 14 items that it
believes are break-point issues to its customers, including
answering every phone within two rings and processing every
credit-line increase request within an hour. Emphasizing the
notion of break points pushes improvement efforts to
understand customer behavior, focuses on what is deemed by
customers as most important, and measures impact.
   -- Choose a single theme. Nothing is more
counterproductive than tens or sometimes hundreds of teams
chasing wildly different "quality" priorities. Team A slashes
cycle time in a components warehouse, while Team B reduces
defects in circuit-board assembly, and so on. At year end,
despite these small wins, neither cycle time nor defects,
measured at the business or company level, demonstrates any
tangible improvement.
   Contrast this with Hewlett Packard, where CEO John Young
focused the entire company by, in 1979, setting a goal of a
tenfold reduction in warranty expenses and following it up,
as Hewlett Packard neared that, with a goal of a 90%
reduction in software defects. However, focusing on a single
goal carries a risk: It may be inappropriate for the company
at that time or may be viewed as an end in itself, rather
than as the means to achieve a much higher and broader goal.
   -- Emphasize results, not process. It is remarkable how
often the focus with process diverts attention from results
and creates excess staff and bureaucracy. (Before it was
rolled back, the TQM effort at Florida Power  Light included
a staff and a group of "quality consultants" that had swelled
to 75.)
   The Baldrige Award criteria are useful for an assessment
of the completeness of a TQM effort, but making the prize the
goal puts too much emphasis on process, and arguably yields
mainly PR, not sustainable competitive wins. Motorola won the
Baldrige Award in its inaugural year (1988). But its
chairman, George Fisher, remarked then: "Yes we won the
Baldrige Award. But all that means is that we are on our way
with an effective process aimed at achieving total customer
satisfaction. We still have a long way to go."
   A result that Motorola wants out of its investments is a
reduction of defects to within "six sigma" (no more than 3.4
defects per million -- or 99.9997% perfect). Mr. Fisher is
even trying to set exacting standards on such areas as basic
research and meetings, where standards are not easily set.
Alcoa's use of benchmarks was also driven by a need to set
exacting standards, because, as Mr. O'Neill says, "world
standards are measurable, and they are practiced somewhere."
   A combination of these suggestions can help restart a
stalled program by tying it to measurable achievements that
make a real difference.
   ---
   Mr. Sharman is a senior partner in McKinsey  Co.'s
Amsterdam office.