EPA Audit Says Agency Mismanaged
   Big Contract With Computer Sciences
   ----
   By G. Pascal Zachary
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
"EPA's managers established a climate of disregard for
sound contract management principles that encouraged
prohibited contract activities, ineffective and inefficient
use of agency resources and diminished agency control over
critical program support activities," the auditors said. The
report listed $13.1 million in "questionable contract
charges" in the contract's first year.
   A Computer Sciences spokesman said the company had been
unable to obtain a draft of the report. In a statement, the
company said it cooperated with the audit and added that it
"has adhered to the directions and procedures mandated by the
EPA in carrying out our contractual responsibilities."
   The EPA released the report ahead of congressional
hearings this week that will focus on the audit. Chairman
John Dingell (D., Mich.) of the House Energy and Commerce
Committee said, "This goes beyond the fox guarding the hen
house. This is the fox running the hen house and billing the
owner for the cost of the chickens and the feed."
   Christian Holmes, acting assistant EPA administrator for
administration and resource management, said the report
didn't find any criminal wrongdoing. But he said the audit
makes clear that the EPA "has to tighten up on internal
management controls." Among other steps, he said he would try
to change the attitude that agency employees and contractor
staff "are one large happy family."
   Among other findings, the auditors said that Computer
Sciences:
   -- Operates the computer system that processes invoices,
including its own. This creates an "unnecessary risk" of
fraud and the appearance of a conflict of interest, the
report said.
   -- Improperly billed the agency for training, conferences,
related travel costs and "idle time," when company employees
weren't working.
   -- Performs critical tasks that, at other agencies, would
typically be done by government employees. The EPA has been
criticized for overreliance on contractors in the past;
agency officials have blamed inadequate staffing levels.
   -- Has broad access to EPA facsimile, electronic mail and
postal correspondence at many offices. "The agency possesses
little information or knowledge to which the contractor is
not privy," the audit said.