First Chicago Had Suspicions 2 Years
   Before Aide Was Fired, Report Suggests
   ----
   By Joann S. Lublin
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The 1987 report decried lax financial controls in the
administration department, which Mr. Tassani ran for eight
years as a senior vice president of the bank. The
deficiencies "indicate a relaxed environment creating an
increased exposure to significant financial loss or
embarrassment to the bank," the May 1987 report warned. At
the time it was issued, the report sparked some corrective
measures but no punitive action against Mr. Tassani, former
employees of the bank said.
   Last month, U.S. District Judge Ilana D. Rovner in Chicago
sentenced Mr. Tassani to five years in prison and five years'
probation for bank fraud and asked how his misdeeds could
have continued for 10 years without the bank noticing.
   Following a lengthy investigation, the U.S. Attorney in
Chicago last May charged Mr. Tassani (along with two other
former bank executives) with bank fraud and bribery. Mr.
Tassani pleaded guilty to accepting hundreds of thousands of
dollars in kickbacks from businessmen for arranging bank
contracts. "Who was watching the store?" Judge Rovner asked
at last month's sentencing. Afterward, First Chicago said
that it reported the improprieties immediately after
discovering them in late 1989.
   The 1987 audit, however, demonstrates that the bank
clearly had been worried about lax controls before 1989.
After a so-called marginal audit like this one, "usually
somebody gets fired" because the deficiencies uncovered "made
it very easy to perpetuate a fraud," one former First
National Bank executive said. Yet Mr. Tassani's position,
duties, and title didn't change after senior management
learned about the audit report, a second former official
said.
   A First Chicago spokeswoman said the bank and Mr. Sullivan
declined to comment about the aftermath of the 1987 audit.
But, she added: "Barry Sullivan's announced retirement on
Oct. 30, 1991, had nothing to do with the Tassani matter at
all. It was his choice to retire and the board supported his
decision."
   The 1987 First National Bank audit report focused on
services provided to the bank by Gray Management Co., a
real-estate management company, and Bennett Alban, an outside
attorney. Gray Management's owner, Ronald Gray, and Mr. Alban
were among the nine others besides Mr. Tassani who later
pleaded guilty and received prison terms for participating in
the kickback scheme. Among other things, First National Bank
auditors found that:
   -- The bank made three long-term unsecured loans totaling
$118,000 "outside the normal credit process" -- including one
to Mr. Alban that remained interest-free for at least seven
months.
   -- The bank prepaid Gray Management for almost $752,000 of
its expenses before these services occurred.
   -- Service contracts for Gray Management were extended for
five years without going through normal competitive bidding
process.
   -- Both Gray Management and Mr. Alban enjoyed "favorable
lease terms" for suites they rented in First Chicago's
headquarters building. Mr. Alban even drew up his own lease,
the report said.
   A former bank executive recalled in an interview that at a
May 1987 meeting to review the uncovered deficiencies, one
senior audit staff member exulted: "You got him," referring
to Mr. Tassani. But then, this former executive added, the
staff member tempered his enthusiasm by saying: "You watch.
This will only go so far and then the safety net will come
out."
   Obviously, internal auditors "had some severe questions
about what he {Mr. Tassani} had done and what was going on
there," said an individual close to federal investigators who
handled the First National Bank case. "I don't know what the
hell happened after that," this individual added. "There
certainly wasn't a clean bill of health" for the bank's
administration department in 1987.
   It isn't clear how the audit committee of First Chicago's
board reacted to the report's conclusions. The four outside
directors serving on that committee in 1987 either declined
to comment or couldn't be reached yesterday.
   An individual close to the bank said that management's
review of the audit report led Mr. Tassani's department to
make "substantial improvements" in its practices -- and also
led bank auditors to keep the department under closer
scrutiny. And despite the "signs of lax controls and sloppy
practices," this individual continued, "there was never any
indication of anything illegal" until late 1989.
   That's when a tip by an employee led bank auditors once
again to review the administration department and discover a
false billing scheme for bogus construction work.
   First Chicago board members were shocked to learn about
Mr. Tassani's involvement in the kickback scheme, according
to another person with close ties to the bank. This
involvement came to light as the investigation of the
false-billing scheme widened. "There was widespread chagrin,"
he said. "Everyone said: `How can that be? This was a person
who was trusted around the place.'"
   Mr. Sullivan was more dismayed than anyone else, this
individual added. "It's like you have a personal assistant
you liked and trusted and that personal assistant stole
something out of your dresser drawer. There could be no
possibility that Barry condoned or colluded in this."