Foreign Exchange:
   Dollar Retreats, Correcting Steep Rally,
   Ends Lower Against the Mark and Yen
   ----
   By John van Rosendaal
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
The currency market spent most of the day consolidating
after the dollar's 7.7% surge against the mark since Jan. 9,
with activity picking up occasionally on rumors and the
release of U.S. economic data.
   Although U.S. jobless claims for the latest week and
December's consumer price index were seen as bullish for the
dollar, they failed to inspire a sustained rise.
   In early trading in Tokyo Friday, the dollar was at 127.92
yen, down from Thursday's close of 128.43 yen. The U.S.
currency was trading at 1.6180 marks, down from 1.6223 marks
Thursday.
   If its surprising rise hasn't ended altogether, the
currency appears to have at least stumbled, as the market was
long, or overbought, in dollars, leaving the U.S. unit
exposed to a downward correction.
   "We probably overshot everyone's expectations" during the
rally, said Robert White, a vice president and
foreign-exchange manager at First Interstate Bank of
California in Los Angeles. "The fact that the dollar fell
back {slightly} from its highs is not very significant."
   Although analysts said the dollar could slip further in
the near term as the market digests its surge, they still
said the currency's rise is likely to continue. "I think the
dollar remains well supported," said John McCarthy, chief
foreign exchange dealer at ABN-Amro Bank in New York.
   The dollar is underpinned by a growing perception that the
U.S. economy and interest rates have bottomed out, while
European economies and rates are expected to decline. A
narrowing of the interest-rate differential between the lower
U.S. rates and European ones would help the dollar.
   Yesterday provided some signs that those perceptions might
be supported by reality, although they were too weak to cause
a sustained bullishness.
   Initial claims in the U.S. for state unemployment
insurance, on a seasonally adjusted basis, fell 49,000 in the
week ended Jan. 4 to 403,000 from a revised 452,000 the
previous week. The previous week's level was earlier
estimated at 458,000. Market expectations were for a decline
of 36,000.
   But the data still point to "very, very small" employment
growth, Mr. McCarthy said.
   U.S. consumer prices rose a seasonally adjusted 0.3% in
December, listed as a 3.5% annual rate after compounding.
   The latest rise compared with an increase of 0.4%, or 5.4%
annually, in November and a rise of 0.1%, or a 0.9% annual
rate, in October.
   For all of 1991, the CPI rose 3.1%, compared with a 6.1%
rise in 1990. The 1991 increase was the smallest since 1986,
when the index rose 1.1%.
   The dollar spiked briefly after the indicators' release
early in the North American day, but the move was damped by
speculation around the same time that the Group of Seven
industrialized countries might act to slow the dollar's
climb.
   The talk probably capped the dollar, traders said,
although no hard evidence of G-7 action or intentions
emerged. Central banks might have some ground for
intervention, not so much to prevent the dollar from rising
above a particular level, but rather to smooth volatility and
slow the pace of its gains, said David Gilmore, senior
foreign-exchange analyst at MCM Currencywatch.
   More rumors ruled trading later in the North American day,
including talk of intended U.S. action against Iraqi
President Saddam Hussein, later denied by the White House,
and unconfirmed reports of civil unrest in Moscow. The dollar
rose briefly to its intraday high of 1.6265 marks at 11:21
a.m. EST on a combination of the rumors and position-squaring
in Europe, where trading was ending for the day.
   The dollar was also supported against the mark by rising
problems in the former Soviet republics of Georgia and
Estonia, traders said. The German currency is typically hurt
by fears of unrest in the former Soviet Union.