Credit Markets:
   Bond Prices Climb Sharply on Strong Demand
   At Treasury's Record Auction of Five-Year Notes
   ----
   By Kevin Donovan and Sharon R. King
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
Bonds opened modestly higher in early trading, despite a
larger than expected rise in orders for new durable goods.
But prices shot up in early afternoon after the Treasury
announced its auction results.
   The Treasury sold a record $9.76 billion of five-year
notes at an average yield of 6.75%, which was also the
highest yield accepted, an indication of tight bidding.
Strong demand for the notes was evident in the bid-to-cover
ratio, which measures the number of bids the Treasury
receives for each bid it accepts. The ratio at yesterday's
auction was 3.26-to-1, up from 2.21-to-1 at the previous
five-year note auction last month.
   Noncompetitive tenders were $684 million, down from $768
million last month but around the usual level for the
five-year note, analysts say. Late yesterday, the yield on
the new five-year notes was quoted at 6.68%.
   Traders said there were reports of large, aggressive bids
from a labor union pension fund and a state employee pension
fund for the Treasury's five-year notes.
   James Somers, president of Somers Asset Management in
Radnor, Pa., said many of these investors purchased five-year
notes because they were "cheap" relative to other
intermediate-term Treasury securities. Mr. Somers said many
sophisticated investors, following the lead of bond
arbitragers, sold seven-year Treasury notes yesterday and
purchased 10-year notes and the new five-year notes. The
average yield on the five-year notes and 10-year notes is
slightly more than the yield on the seven-year notes,
presenting an attractive opportunity for investors.
   "It's rare for a combination of a longer security and a
shorter security to have a yield that is equal to or higher
than a security in the middle of the two maturities," said
Mr. Somers.
   The 10-year notes were the best-performing securities in
the Treasury market yesterday, suggesting strong buying
activity.
   Other demand came from dealers covering short, or
oversold, positions. Traders said the success of the
five-year note auction, in marked contrast to the mediocre
two-year note sale Tuesday, brought in retail buying. The
lack of such buying in recent sessions has been a depressing
influence on note and bond prices.
   "We saw paper leaving us in small pieces and in big
pieces," he says.
   Bond traders said Treasury bond prices also got a boost
from wire-service reports of comments by Federal Reserve
Chairman Alan Greenspan concerning long-term bonds. But Fed
officials emphasized that Mr. Greenspan wasn't signaling any
change in Fed policy.
   The five-year auction, the last sale of Treasury coupon
securities for a month, appeared to represent a break in the
bearishness that has been bedeviling the credit markets for
most of this year.
   "The market has been expecting very constructive news on
the economy for quite some time," says Matthew Alexy, senior
analyst at Deutsche Bank Government Securities Inc. "Now the
risk is that any disappointment about the economy and you get
a market with a very firm bid to it."
   A recent blow to forecasts of a quick rebound in economic
growth was delivered Tuesday by the Conference Board, which
said its consumer confidence index fell to a 17-year low in
February.
   That unexpected result generated buying, the momentum of
which enabled market participants to shrug off news yesterday
morning that durable goods orders rose 1.5% in January.
   Market participants also took solace early in the session
from news reports that Rep. Dan Rostenkowski (D., Ill.), the
chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee, had expressed
doubt about the ability of House Democrats to pass their tax
package.
   The news was the latest sign that a fiscal stimulus
package may be tougher to put together than had been
anticipated and that any legislation with a chance of
becoming law might not be as stimulative as some traders and
investors have feared.
   Looking ahead, initial claims for state unemployment
insurance in the week ended Feb. 15 will be released this
morning at 8:30 EST. A Dow Jones Capital Markets Report
consensus of economists forecasts a 2,000 decline in claims
after an 18,000 increase the previous week.
   Also on today's calendar is a report from a trade group on
sales of existing homes in January, and at 4:30 p.m. EST the
Federal Reserve will release weekly money-supply data. The
Dow Jones Capital Markets Report consensus looks for M2, the
aggregate most closely tracked by the Fed, to have risen $4.8
billion in the week ended Feb. 17.
                                                                                                       

   Treasury Securities
                                                                                                       

   Prices ended sharply higher in active trading. The
benchmark 30-year bond ended at 101 22/32 to yield 7.84%,
compared with 100 16/32 to yield 7.94%. The latest 10-year
notes ended at 101 4/32 to yield 7.32%, compared with 100
8/32 to yield 7.44%.
   In when-issued trading, the yield on the two-year notes
auctioned Tuesday ended at 5.36%, down from its average
auction yield of 5.40%. The five-year notes auctioned
yesterday ended at 6.68%, down from the average auction yield
of 6.75%.
                                                                                                       

   Rates are determined by the difference between the
purchase price and face value. Thus, higher bidding narrows
the investor's return while lower bidding widens it.
                                                                                                       

                      Five-Year Notes
                                                                                                       

  Applications ............................. $31,786,917,000
  Accepted bids ............................  $9,761,584,000
  Accepted at low price ....................             72%
  Accepted noncompetitively ................    $684,000,000
  Average price (Rate) ..................... 100.000 (6.75%)
  High price (Rate) ........................ 100.042 (6.74%)
  Low price (Rate) ......................... 100.000 (6.75%)
  Interest rate ............................          6 3/4%
  CUSIP number .............................       912827E57
                                                                                                       

   The notes are dated March 2, 1992, and mature Feb. 28,
1997.
                                                                                                       

   Corporate  Junk Bonds
                                                                                                       

   Companies lined up again to sell bonds and notes
yesterday, coming to market as long-term interest rates
lurched lower.
   About $1.1 billion of new corporate debt was sold,
including a three-part $275 million offering from Duke Power
Co., the Charlotte, N.C., utility. The company sold $100
million of first mortgage bonds due April 1, 1999, and priced
to yield 7.533%; $75 million of first mortgage bonds due
March 1, 2004, and priced to yield 8.082%; and $100 million
of first mortgage bonds due March 1, 2022, and priced to
yield 8.66%.
   Utilities have dominated corporate issuance recently. New
electric, gas and telephone offerings totaled $4.77 billion
in January, more than the combined issuance of the first four
months of 1991, says Leo Kelser, a utilities analyst at
Kidder, Peabody  Co.
   "Low interest rates and a steep yield curve will continue
to spark utility refundings this year," said Mr. Kelser,
noting that there is roughly $38 billion of utility debt
outstanding with coupons of 10% or higher. "But because most
of the issuance will be used to refinance existing debt,
instead of for new-money financing, the current heavy supply
conditions are not expected to widen utility spreads," he
said.
   In the secondary market for investment-grade corporate
debt, high-grade bonds gained 1/2 to 3/4 point.
   Most junk bond prices rose about 1/4 point. Among the
biggest gainers were the junk bonds of drug-store company
Revco D.S. Inc., which rose about 1/2 point on a report of
strong earnings by its parent, ANAC Holding Corp. ANAC
reported net income of $16.2 million for its third quarter
ended Feb. 8. It had a loss of $12.7 million the previous
quarter. The improvement will ensure that Revco can fund its
uncontested reorganization plan, the company said. The
deadline for creditors to vote on the plan is March 11.
                                                                                                       

   Municipal Bonds
                                                                                                       

   Prices of municipal bonds ended flat to as much as 1/2
point higher.
   Meanwhile, investors gave a favorable response to
yesterday's more than $560 million of new issues, allowing
underwriters to reprice some offerings to lower yields by as
much as 0.10 percentage point.
   Elsewhere, dealers and investors expressed confidence that
an offering of $336.7 million of New York Local Government
Assistance Corp. sales tax revenue bonds will be completed on
schedule.
   Late Tuesday, a New York state Supreme Court judge issued
a temporary restraining order blocking the sale of the bonds.
The order was prompted by a taxpayer lawsuit that questions
whether the corporation should be allowed to issue bonds
without voter approval.
   However, underwriters led by Morgan Stanley  Co. signed a
purchase contract yesterday with officials of the corporation
for the bonds, and they are proceeding with plans to close
the bond deal next week.
   "The suit is generally regarded as a nuisance suit, and we
have every reason to believe {it} will be unsuccessful," said
Jeremy Ragus, vice president and manager of Scudder Stevens 
Clark Inc.'s $158 million New York Tax-Free Fund.
   The government assistance corporation's 7% issues of 2021
ended 1/8 higher at 98 to yield 7.08%.
   Among seasoned secondary issues, California's general
obligation bonds, the 6.25% issues of 2012, ended 1/2 higher
at 97 1/2 to yield 6.46%.
                                                                                                       

   Mortgage  Asset-Backed Securities
                                                                                                       

   Prices of mortgage securities ended sharply higher,
spurred by the gain in Treasurys.
   The 8% mortgage securities for March delivery issued by
all three agencies rose 22/32. Government National Mortgage
Association securities finished at 99 24/32, Federal Home
Loan Mortgage Corp. securities were at 99 11/32, and Federal
National Mortgage Association ended at 99 9/32.
   For the first time this week, a considerable amount of new
real estate mortgage investment conduit issuance was
announced, which also helped bolster mortgage securities.
   Underwriters confirmed $1.8 billion of new Remic
securities, via four new Freddie Macs and an increase in a
previous Fannie Mae offering.
   But the Remic sector may be at a crossroads, some traders
say. With the Treasury yield curve flattening as short-term
Treasurys underperform bonds, the incentive to underwrite
Remics is starting to fade. The prices of most Remic classes
are tied to short-term Treasurys.