International:
   World Wire
   ----
   Compiled by Monua Janah
The European Community Commission approved a plan to
gradually increase competition in Community markets for
natural gas and electricity.
   But the commission backed off from requiring member states
to dismantle utility monopolies. Each nation will decide the
structure of its utilities. Even the toned-down proposal,
however, is likely to meet opposition from utilities and some
EC members.
   The core of the plan, which must be approved by EC
governments, would require gas and electricity companies to
grant limited access to their transmission grids, to enable
third parties to transport energy. This would in theory allow
large, industrial users to buy energy from anywhere in the
Community, exposing protected suppliers to price competition.
   Separately, the EC authorized Spain and Italy to restrict
imports of Japanese cars from other EC countries but only
until a new EC-Japan car import accord takes effect
communitywide next Jan. 1.
                                                                                                       

   GERMAN WAGE TALKS COLLAPSE
                                                                                                       

   Wage talks in the German steel and banking industries
failed, setting the stage for strike votes. The steel
employers had offered a lump-sum payment of 220 marks
($138.70), a wage increase of 5% as of the beginning of
February, and a further wage increase to 5.8% July 1. The IG
Metall union was asking for a lump-sum payment of 300 marks,
a wage increase of 5.2% retroactive to January, and a further
increase to 6.7% in July. IG Metall's 130,000 members will
begin voting Sunday on whether to strike. Meanwhile, the
banking industry offered a 5% wage increase; representatives
of the 430,000 Western German financial sector employees
insisted on a 10.5% increase.
                                                                                                       

   FRENCH PROPOSAL ON INSURERS
                                                                                                       

   The French government confirmed that it plans to allow
private investors to acquire up to 49% of the capital of
three state-controlled insurers instead of the present 25%
limit, a government spokesman said. The three companies are
Union des Assurances de Paris, Groupement des Assurances
Nationales, and Assurances Generales de France.
                                                                                                       

   RUSSIAN NEWS NETWORK
                                                                                                       

   The official Soviet news agency Tass, in limbo since the
collapse of the Soviet Union, is to merge with the old
government agency Novosti and the Russian Information Agency
formed last year, according to a decree from Russian
President Boris Yeltsin. The new entity is to be called the
Russian Information Telegraph Agency, or Rita. Tass, keeping
its old name, will report news to Russia and other members of
the Commonwealth of Independent States. International
services will use the Rita name.
                                                                                                       

   ASEAN TRADE AGREEMENT
                                                                                                       

   An agreement by the six-member Association of Southeast
Asian Nations to cut trade tariffs within ASEAN will
initially be limited to seven categories of goods, according
to a draft.
   The draft, to be reviewed by ASEAN economic ministers
meeting today and Friday, dilutes a broader plan to trim
tariffs on intra-ASEAN trade in manufactured and processed
agricultural goods. The seven categories are cement,
fertilizer, wood pulp, textiles, wooden furniture, leather
goods and gems.
   The proposal seeks to cut tariffs on qualified goods to
20% at the start of 1993 and then to a maximum of 5% by 2008.
After review by the ministers, the plan will be presented to
heads of state at an ASEAN summit next week. ASEAN members
are Brunei, Indonesia, Malaysia, the Philippines, Singapore
and Thailand.
   Meanwhile, the Thai foreign minister said ASEAN would
invite the five permanent members of the United Nations
Security Council -- the U.S., Britain, France, China and
Russia -- to sign its regional cooperation treaty.
                                                                                                       

   POSTSCRIPTS . . .
                                                                                                       

   Japanese farmers are expected to be given the green light
next month to grow genetically engineered tomatoes, an
official at the agriculture ministry said. Such produce
already exists elsewhere, he noted. . . . Britain promised to
compensate the Baltic states -- Lithuania, Latvia and Estonia
-- for gold worth about $160 million which it held when the
three now independent countries were annexed by the former
Soviet Union in 1948.