Foreign Exchange:
   Dollar Rises Against Mark Amid Fears
   Of Instability in Former Soviet Union
   ----
   By Charlene Lee
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
Late in New York, the dollar was quoted at 1.6074 marks,
up from 1.5945 marks late Tuesday. The U.S. currency also was
changing hands at 127.45 yen, up from 127.40 yen. Sterling
was trading at $1.7880, down from $1.7980.
   At midmorning Thursday in Tokyo, the dollar was at 127.20
yen, up from 127.01 yen at Wednesday's close. The U.S.
currency also was trading at 1.6033 marks, up from 1.5953
marks Wednesday.
   The U.S. currency's gains have surprised many observers,
who point to a still-weak economy and a general belief in the
currency market that another cut in U.S. interest rates is
likely.
   "The market has a pretty good idea that the dollar's
bottom is 1.5500 marks," said Kevin Weir, vice president at
Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce in New York. "I think the
key is we're trying to define what the upper limit is."
   Traders and analysts said the dollar for most of the day
continued to ride the boost it got late Tuesday, when Federal
Reserve Board Chairman Alan Greenspan rejected an increase in
the yen's value to help stimulate the U.S. economy.
   The dollar saw session highs around midday in New York of
1.6120 marks and 128.73 yen on short-covering before settling
back to range-trading activity. Mr. Weir said that
participants will try to "gingerly" test new resistance
levels for the dollar at 1.6250 marks and 128.00 yen.
   In the absence of new economic news, dealers said that
players seized on rumors of another coup attempt in the
former Soviet Union to sell the German currency. The rumor
was fueled by a German broadcast interview in which former
Soviet Foreign Minister Eduard Shevardnadze said that "the
danger {of a coup} still exists.
   "And the danger could be even bigger {now} than before the
August coup attempt of last year, because events are
developing against an unfavorable background. That means
crisis in the economy and strong social tensions as well as
bad living conditions," he said.
   Because German banks hold the greatest debt exposure to
the former Soviet state, news of economic and political
instability there typically tarnishes the mark.
   Steady buying of the yen against the mark capped the
dollar's rise at 127.73 yen. In addition, market watchers
said participants were especially nervous about taking the
dollar over 128.00 yen in light of remarks from Japanese
Finance Minister Tsutomu Hata.
   Mr. Hata indicated early yesterday that coordinated
intervention in currency markets could be used if market
movements don't reflect each country's economic conditions.
   Although Mr. Hata avoided using the word "intervention,"
he said that if foreign currency movements don't reflect
fundamentals, a "cooperative response" may be needed. He also
said the yen's weakening this week isn't in line with
economic fundamentals.
   Despite Mr. Hata's statements, weak fundamentals toward
the dollar and a general consensus in the currency market
that the Fed will further relax interest rates, "people are
comfortable taking the dollar higher," said Marc Chandler,
senior market strategist for IDEA, an analytic firm.
   He pointed to an emergence yesterday of medium-term
players, including corporate fund managers, who kept up
steady buying interest in the dollar on the belief that the
dollar's decline may have bottomed out. "There are some signs
that this is the worst of it for the U.S. economy," Mr.
Chandler said.
   After trading skittishly all week on rumors and comments
from officials, the market's attention is expected to shift
back to the economy today with the scheduled release of U.S.
weekly jobless claims and January retail sales figures.
   Weaker-than-expected data could lead the Fed to loosen
monetary policy as early as Friday, analysts said. But even
with an easing, Mr. Chandler believes the dollar's downside
is limited. "People are looking at lower levels {in the
dollar} as buying opportunities," he said.