Are Canada's
   Small Stocks
   Ready to Fly?
   ---
   By G. Pierre Goad and Suzanne McGee
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
While some of the easy money has already been made in
small Canadian stocks, the feeding frenzy that keeps driving
small U.S. stocks to new highs hasn't arrived in full force
north of the border.
   That could soon change. Canadian interest rates are
bottoming out after dropping steadily for several months.
Institutional investors can't count on a repetition of last
year's big gains in the Canadian bond market, forcing them to
look elsewhere for decent returns. Small investors aren't
happy with the rates offered on certificates of deposit, and
they are still in the financially defensive posture of saving
more and spending less. Also, Canadians have until Feb. 29 to
put money into tax-deferred retirement savings accounts for
the 1991 tax year; mutual funds are reporting record sales.
   With more money chasing them, small Canadian stocks have
shaken off a five-year slump. Michael Shannon, an analyst at
Burns Fry Ltd. in Toronto, says that in 1991 a Burns Fry
index of Canadian small capitalized stocks posted a total
return (price changes plus dividends) of 18.5%, compared with
12% for the Toronto Stock Exchange's 300-stock Composite
Index. In January, the 380-stock Burns Fry index rose another
6.2%, outpacing the 2.6% gain of the TSE 300.
   "Some of the (Canadian) small caps have done very well and
will continue to do very well," said George Domolky,
portfolio manager of Fidelity Investments' Canada Fund.
"(Canadian) small caps have been overlooked by investors.
Those that are managed well have strong balance sheets and
should benefit from the economic recovery."
   Foreign investors won't find it easy to research small
Canadian stocks, many of which aren't well-known even in
Canada. At most, two or three analysts follow them, and some
aren't followed at all. That suits one Toronto money manager,
who requests anonymity in confiding that he sells a stock as
soon as he hears it talked about at a cocktail party.
   Some of these small stocks are very small, which can be a
problem for investors. The stocks in Burns Fry's index have a
market capitalization of 15 million Canadian dollars (US$12.6
million) to C$170 million. Company executives often own most
of the shares outstanding, and other longterm investors may
hold a big chunk of the publicly traded stock. Because of the
thin trading in many of these stocks, buying in or selling
out sometimes can't be done at prices the investor wants.
   With such hazards come potentially big rewards. Some
small-stock pros say they made potfuls of money on Fahnestock
Viner Holdings Inc., which controls a U.S. brokerage firm.
That stock has risen to C$11.50 from its 52-week low of
C$2.75 a share. Cedric Rabin, vice president of Toronto
money-management concern Altamira Investment Services Inc.,
says his funds have done well with Newbridge Networks Corp.,
whose shares have more than tripled in the past year from a
low of C$4.35.
   Canadian small caps favored by analysts and money managers
include manufacturers, distribution concerns, retailers, and
even a few junior resource companies. Analysts and money
managers say they typically hunt for small stocks trading
close to per-share net worth, or assets minus liabilities.
Many also look at the ratio of the stock's price to per-share
operating profit or cash flow, rather than the traditional
price-earnings ratio. Here are some of their picks:
   Jon Reider, an analyst at Richardson Greenshields of
Canada Ltd. in Montreal, recommends emergency-lighting
concern Kaufel Group Ltd. and paint maker Sico Inc. Another
pick is Dorel Industries Inc., a maker of children's
furniture and other products, whose Class A stock has jumped
to C$8.375 from C$6.125 at the beginning of the year. All
three companies are based in Montreal.
   Normand Roy, an analyst at Levesque Beaubien Geoffrion
Inc. in Montreal, likes grocery concern Metro-Richelieu Inc.;
computer consultants DMR Group Inc.; and AGRA Industries
Ltd., an engineering and construction concern.
Metro-Richelieu and DMR are based in Montreal and AGRA is in
Saskatoon, Saskatchewan.
   Mr. Rabin of Altamira says shares of an Ontario auto-parts
maker, Linamar Machine Ltd., have done well and should
continue to outperform the market. Mr. Rabin is also a fan of
several junior oil and gas companies, which he says are
taking advantage of the sell-off-at rock-bottom prices-of oil
and gas producing properties by major companies such as
Imperial Oil Ltd.
   The large oil companies "have walked away from some
promising plays in Western Canada," Mr. Rabin said. Among
others, he likes Dorset Exploration Ltd., Chauvco Resources
Ltd., Ulster Petroleums Ltd. and Pinnacle Resources Ltd. All
four are based in Calgary, Alberta.
   Other stock-pickers like Counsel Corp., which recently
sold its financial services operations to focus on property
management funds. It also owns 70% of a U.S.based nursing
home business, Diversicare. One investor puts its asset value
at about C$18 a share. Counsel closed yesterday at C$7.625.
   All these stocks are listed on the Toronto and/or Montreal
stock exchanges.