International:
   Germany's Kohl Shapes Its New Role
   ---
   More Global Responsibilities
   Lie Ahead, Leader Says
   ----
   By Karen Elliott House and Philip Revzin
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
But the issue of Germany's leadership in the world has
been controversial since Bismarck created the country in
1871, and especially so in the past 50 years. German
chancellors, and especially the architect of modern German
unification, must live with this problem like a migraine that
even after half a century shows few signs of abating.
   Nonetheless, Mr. Kohl, a genial bear of a man who chuckles
frequently during a 90-minute interview in his Bonn office
with The Wall Street Journal Europe and the German financial
daily Handelsblatt, is keenly aware that Germany must
shoulder more international responsibility and be sensitive
to the fears and concerns this may produce. He is
philosophical, saying he understands why such fears occur but
that there is nothing Germany can really do about them.
   "It's like the weather," he says. "It's something that you
can't influence. When it rains, you put up your umbrella;
when the sun is out, you take off your jacket."
   Despite these concerns, he says he will fight for an
amendment to the German Constitution to allow German troops
to participate in United Nations peacekeeping efforts,
including any future undertakings like last year's Persian
Gulf War. "We have the obligation to assume more
responsibility on an international scale," he says.
   Mr. Kohl shrugs off suggestions that Germany seek a
permanent seat on the U.N. Security Council. While Germany
must and will do more, he says, true world leadership remains
with the "strongest country in the world," the U.S.
   Meanwhile, German and European unity go hand in hand, Mr.
Kohl insists, and despite recent strains, the French-German
couple will continue to drive European affairs. (Mr. Kohl's
office walls bear lithographs of former German Chancellor
Konrad Adenauer and of French President Mitterrand.)
   On economic topics, he says Germany will use its
chairmanship of the Group of Seven leading industrial
countries to push for conclusion this year of a world trade
agreement, which he calls a "precondition" for continued
prosperity. He realizes that world financial markets have
German interest rates and wage settlements under the
microscope and pledges to lead the fight against inflation
above all else.
   "The biggest task in the current wage bargaining round is
to be reasonable," he says. "I myself intend to steer a
reasonable course as far as federal civil servants and
employees are concerned." A recent pay agreement raising most
German steel workers' wages 6.4%, along with rises in German
interest rates to high levels, have many Europeans worried
about the economic outlook. But Mr. Kohl insists that he will
keep inflation down because that is the "best investment
policy and the best social policy."
   Amid growing fears of chaos to the east of Germany, the
chancellor says he is optimistic that Russia and the other
republics of the former Soviet Union can "make it" and become
free-market democracies. This will require the help of all
the West, not just Germany, he stresses. The solution, he
suggests, is to help these new countries to help themselves
by replacing the teachings of one German, Karl Marx, with
those of another, Ludwig Erhard, the architect of West
Germany's postwar "economic miracle." But he wants to link
aid to these countries to their strict adherence to
disarmament agreements.
   For Mr. Kohl, more perhaps than for any other world
statesman, the collapse of the Soviet bloc has brought
euphoria as well as tricky problems. "For Germany, the
situation has changed profoundly," he says. "German unity
hasn't made our position in the world easier. On the
contrary, it has made it more complex.
   "What we Germans have to understand is that we have our
problems with German unity, but that our partners and friends
have their problems with it too. I'm totally against
criticizing them for showing this kind of uneasiness."
   For Mr. Kohl, continuing to integrate Germany into a
European political and economic union is "the only genuine
remedy" to this problem. "This is why European unification is
just as important for the Germans as German unification."
   Still, Germany, as Western Europe's most populous and
economically strongest country, does have responsibilities.
"There is a danger of us becoming too parochial in our
approach," the chancellor acknowledges. "We are, after all,
part of the United Nations. When you're a member of such an
organization, you cannot accept just the advantages but not
the obligations -- which is why we have to clarify our
constitution {to allow German troops to fight outside the
territory of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization}, and I
will fight for that. If necessary I will make it an issue in
the next election in 1994."
   Developments in the European Community also mean Germany
must shoulder its burdens, Mr. Kohl says. "We're on the eve
of political union in Europe, and Germany after all is part
of this," he says. "It's absurd to believe that we can be
part of this political union and not participate fully in
operations launched by the U.N. We have to be a member of the
U.N. with all rights and duties."
   As chairman of this July's economic summit of the Group of
Seven industrial nations in Munich, Mr. Kohl says he will
fight to unblock the stalled world trade talks under the
General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade. "We must make every
effort to ensure that before the Munich summit, GATT has been
brought to a successful conclusion," he says. "As a matter of
principle, free world trade is the decisive precondition for
world-wide prosperity."
   He adds, "Protection would be deadly in the long run. You
have to open your window for your economy, as in your house,
in order to be healthy. I will never accept a fortress
Europe. Everyone has to compromise to make the GATT round a
success."
   On aid to the former Soviet bloc, Mr. Kohl speaks as a
leader who has already pledged or sent -- by his reckoning --
105 billion marks ($66 billion) to Eastern Europe and to
Russia and other former Soviet republics. "Of course we have
to give financial help," he says. "But I must say Germany has
hit the outer limit of what she can actually give. Now we
think it's the others' turn, both in Europe and also in
countries that are very far away from Europe. The Japanese,
too, draw a great benefit from the changes in Eastern
Europe."
   But huge problems remain, he says, especially in
dismantling the huge arsenals these countries had built up.
While much attention has been paid to nuclear weapons -- not
to mention unsafe nuclear reactors -- Mr. Kohl says, "I
consider the chemical weapons to be the most destabilizing of
all, because they're so easily transportable and so easy to
launch."
   To attack these problems, Mr. Kohl says he wants to
"establish a linkage between help and assistance that we give
to the new republics and their records as regards abiding by
the disarmament agreements, so that we really come to a
strict control."
   Within the rapidly changing global fabric, Mr. Kohl sees a
constant beacon: the U.S. As if to emphasize Bonn's interest
in warmer relations between the two countries, Mr. Kohl waxes
eloquent on the U.S.'s continuing leadership role. "Only a
fool would say America is on the decline," he says. "The U.S.
is the strongest country in the world. Period. The U.S. has
problems, some of them homemade. But one always relies, time
and again, on the U.S. Every time, when responsibility has to
be assumed, one calls for the Americans."