McCrory Halts Payments of Principal
   And Interest on 6.5% Debenture Issue
   ----
   By Jeffrey A. Trachtenberg
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
"Vendor payments are being delayed while we review
operations," said the spokesman, who declined to speculate on
how long McCrory could survive without new shipments of
merchandise. In a onepage document filed with the Securities
and Exchange Commission on Jan. 27, McCrory Corp. said it was
"considering all of its available restructuring options."
   In the SEC filing, McCrory also said it has created a
reserve of $80 million to $120 million to cover the closings
of the 229 stores and a warehouse in Clinton, S.C. The
reserve will appear on the financial statement for the Jan.
31 fiscal year.
   McCrory's decision to halt payment of $3,369,000 in
principal on its Feb. 15 debentures, plus interest, surprised
some analysts. They noted that Robert Spencer, chief
executive officer of McCrory Stores, said late last month
that the chain would close the fiscal year with $40.8 million
in cash. It would appear, said the analysts, that McCrory had
ample funds with which to make the payments.
   McCrory primarily serves inner-city residents with low
incomes. The company operates stores under the McCrory name
as well as H.L. Green, J.J. Newberry, Kress, T.G.Y. and G.C.
Murphy.
   One analyst speculated that Mr. Riklis may have defaulted
on the debentures to "create an atmosphere of uncertainty"
for bondholders who own $75 million of senior subordinated
exchangeable variable-rate notes due July 15.
   "If he can buy back $50 million at 50 cents on the dollar,
there is a good chance McCrory will survive," said this
analyst, who asked not to be identified. The analyst noted
that last year McCrory needed to retire $75 million of bonds
due in July 1991. The debt fueled concerns about the
retailer's future, and eventually Mr. Riklis was able to buy
back a substantial portion of the bonds at a discount.
   Repeated phone calls to McCrory Corp.'s New York office
weren't returned.
   Last week, a number of vendors said they had halted
shipments of new goods to McCrory Stores because they hadn't
been paid for earlier deliveries. In two meetings with
suppliers less than a month ago, Mr. Spencer pleaded for new
inventory shipments and said the chain was committed to
improving communications with its suppliers.
   Vendors, however, said that in recent weeks their calls to
McCrory Stores' accounts-payable department have been
answered by a voice-mail system. "We've been leaving 15
messages a day, but the only person who ever called us back,
our buyer, said he didn't know anything," said Brian Wainer,
president of Marketing International Inc., a Columbus, Ohio,
company that buys manufacturer close-outs. "McCrory assured
us we would be paid promptly." Mr. Wainer's company has been
owed $10,447.68 since Jan. 29.
   For the nine months ended Oct. 31, McCrory reported a loss
of $42.3 million on revenue of $961 million, compared with a
loss of $42.1 million on revenue of $1.05 billion in the like
year-earlier period. Mr. Spencer, acknowledging a
disappointing Christmas season, recently predicted that sales
for the year ended Jan. 31 would fall 5.2% to about $1.14
billion from $1.2 billion in the previous year.