Movies:
   Gay Activists
   Direct Anger
   At Hollywood
   ----
   By David J. Jefferson
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
"I don't understand why they continue to make us out as
monsters, maniacs and psychopaths," says Pam Bates, a lesbian
activist in San Francisco who is part of a group plotting
ways to ruin the box-office prospects of "Basic Instinct," a
$40 million thriller from Carolco Pictures Inc. featuring an
ice-pick-wielding bisexual woman as its villain.
   Since the movie is a murder-mystery, the group figures the
best way to keep filmgoers away is to tell them whodunit. "I
don't want them to make any money on this film," says Ms.
Bates, who, like hundreds of other protesters in New York and
Los Angeles will be distributing leaflets outside movie
theaters this weekend, giving away the ending. Protesters in
Los Angeles already have pasted stickers across movie posters
for "Basic Instinct," proclaiming it "another homophobic
film." Not since William Friedkin's 1980 movie "Cruising,"
about homosexual murders in Greenwich Village, has the gay
community been so outraged over a film.
   There is doubt whether the spoiler campaign will keep many
viewers away, especially since the film ends on an ambiguous
note. And the publicity doubtless will attract curious
moviegoers who might not otherwise see the film. Mike
Medavoy, chairman of Sony Corp.'s TriStar Pictures unit,
which is distributing the movie, says, "This is a terrific
thriller, and I hope a lot of people will see it in the light
in which it was intended, not in the narrow light in which
it's cast by others."
   The "Basic Instinct" furor, which grew as demonstrators
tried to disrupt filming last year in San Francisco, is the
focal point of much wider unrest. The gay-activist group
Queer Nation has been staging demonstrations at recent
Hollywood awards ceremonies, handing out fliers demanding "No
Awards for Homo-Hatred." The group says it will cap its
efforts with a "Queer Caravan" to the Oscars that it hopes
will draw a few thousand protesters from around the country
-- as well as a TV audience of a billion world-wide.
   In addition to the best-picture nominations, gay groups
are annoyed that the academy overlooked films with positive
gay characters, particularly the critically acclaimed
documentary "Paris Is Burning," about black transvestites in
Harlem. "The fact that the subject matter was deemed `less
important' than other subject matters makes it crystal clear
that the {nominating} committee's homophobia was a leading
reason" the documentary wasn't tapped, insists Spence
Halperin, a producer and member of Out in Film, a group of
about 500 openly gay and lesbian workers in the entertainment
industry.
   "We're upset about the negative representation of queers
on-screen, the failure of Hollywood to address the reality of
the AIDS crisis on-screen, and the fact that the industry is
so homophobic that people can't be out" of the closet, adds
Judy Sisneros of Queer Nation, who is helping to organize the
Oscar demonstration, which she says will likely include "an
action" during the awards show itself.
   The Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences, denying
any homophobia on its part, "certainly respects their right
to protest -- so long as they don't come into our venue and
cause a disturbance," a spokesman says.
   The rising anger comes despite Hollywood's attempt at
fence-mending. A fundraiser for the National Gay and Lesbian
Task Force, with David Hoberman, president of Walt Disney
Co.'s Touchstone Pictures as host, attracted a Hollywood
pantheon. And soon-to-depart Fox Inc. chief Barry Diller and
MCA Inc. president Sidney Sheinberg recently formed Hollywood
Supports, an industry group whose aim is to "change the image
of AIDS and break down the barriers presented by prejudice
against lesbians and gay men."
   "If you sit down with any studio executive, they will tell
you they have no philosophical objection to positive
portrayals of gays and lesbians," says entertainment lawyer
Alan Hergott, one of the organizers of the gay task force
fund-raiser. None, however, was willing to say so on the
record for this story, and it's clear they are angry about
the protests.
   "What they would like to do, in certain circumstances, is
do away with the First Amendment," one top executive says of
the "Basic Instinct" flap.
   While protesters hope to force Hollywood into a new
sensitivity, some gay people worry the demonstrations could
cause a backlash, with studios hesitating to approve films
with any gay characters to avoid future controversies.
   For example, even a film with a gay hero -- Warner Bros.'
"The Mayor of Castro Street," about the assassinated San
Francisco gay-rights champion Harvey Milk -- is drawing
criticism from certain gay groups angry at director Oliver
Stone's involvement in the project because of his "JFK."
They've been threatening to disrupt production when it gets
under way. Frustrated by the criticism, Mr. Stone has backed
out of directing the film.
   "There's that small, hysterical minority that have wrongly
characterized him as homophobic, and he's not ready to tackle
that controversy," says a spokeswoman for Mr. Stone, who will
continue as producer. "The gay activists have done no service
by keeping Oliver from directing," adds "Mayor" author Randy
Shilts, who waited a decade before any studio would touch his
Milk biography.
   Studios have been reluctant to produce films with leading
gay characters, in part because of the belief that such films
are box-office poison. Hollywood's two big flirtations with
films featuring leading gay characters -- the 1982 releases
"Making Love" and "Personal Best" -- were both flops. (Other
films with major gay characters that have done well include
"Victor/Victoria" and "Midnight Cowboy.")
   Gay people don't buy the bad-box-office argument. "They
used to say that about black movies. But Spike Lee came along
and put a rest to that old chestnut," says Mr. Halperin of
Out in Film.
   But producers angling to get Hollywood to make movies
dealing sympathetically with homosexuality or AIDS have
consistently hit brick walls. Executive producer Lindsay Law
couldn't get any studio to finance his critically acclaimed
AIDS film "Longtime Companion." He eventually got it produced
himself and distributed through the independent Samuel
Goldwyn Co. in 1990. "But it's just as difficult to get a
movie made with gay characters today as it was two years
ago," Mr. Law says.
   Television producers have fared better at introducing gay
characters, particularly on sitcoms like "Murphy Brown,"
"Designing Women" and "The Golden Girls." "Melrose Place," an
upcoming spinoff of the hit Fox show "Beverly Hills 90210"
will even have a lead character who is gay.
   Still, networks are skittish about losing advertisers.
Ultraconservative groups like the American Family Association
in Tupelo, Miss., have pressured sponsors to pull out of
programs with gay themes.
   Writer-producer Richard Kramer raised the association's
ire with his "thirtysomething" episode that featured two gay
characters talking in bed. "There was no protest when the
subject was death or disease," Mr. Kramer says. "But when it
was about love, they protested."
   On the whole, "the films coming out of Hollywood have
nothing to do with any gay or lesbian I have ever met," says
Richard Rouilard, editor in chief of the Advocate, which has
a special "Homophobia in Hollywood" cover story in its next
issue. "The gay community would rather have no gay characters
in any movies if all they're going to get are vampire lesbian
serial killers with long toenails."