Chipcom Says
   Profit Tripled
   In 4th Quarter
   ----
   By John R. Wilke
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Chipcom has targeted the surging market for computer
network products with its so-called "smart hub" systems,
which tie together dozens or even thousands of computers
across a corporate network.
   "We had a solid year," Mr. Held said in an interview.
"Companies are starting to see that they need enterprisewide
networks to be competitive."
   For the year, Chipcom will report net income of $4
million, or 54 cents a share, on a 70% revenue gain to $48
million, Mr. Held said. In 1990 Chipcom, based in
Southborough, Mass., earned $1.5 million, or 23 cents a share
on fewer shares, with revenue of $28.4 million.
   Despite the market's growth, Chipcom faces stiff
competition. It must confront two larger network companies,
Cabletron Systems Inc., Rochester, N.H., and SynOptics
Communications Inc., Mountain View, Calif., "in just about
every sales situation," Mr. Held said. But he said Chipcom's
sales approach relies largely on partnership with system
integrators and resellers, avoiding the more costly direct
sales channel, and is more focused on large, corporatewide
systems.
   Chipcom's largest partner is Digital Equipment Corp.,
which has a huge networking business and often uses Chipcom's
smart hubs when it bids for large network contracts. "Our
Digital business is strong and growing," and comprised 30% of
1991 revenue, Mr. Held said.
   Paul Johnson, an analyst with First Boston Corp., called
the Digital relationship a "double-edged sword," because it
gets Chipcom into large accounts it wouldn't otherwise reach
but makes the company overly dependent on one customer. Some
day -- though probably not soon, he said -- "Digital might
decide to get into the smart hub business itself" and won't
need Chipcom or anyone else.
   "We are aware it isn't healthy to have such high level of
sales to a single customer, so we're working to grow other
channels," Mr. Held said.
   Foreign sales were strong in 1991, growing to 40% of
revenue, Mr. Held said. Chipcom's payroll stood at 260 people
at year end.
   Chipcom customers include such major corporations as
Johnson  Johnson, Citicorp, Ford Motor Co. and Shell Oil Co.
   Graham Ward, information technology chief at Boston
University Medical School, uses Chipcom's smart hub products
to connect 100 personal computers and workstations. "We took
it out of the box, plugged it in, and it's run ever since
without so much as a burp."