Education:
   Business Funds Program in Indianapolis
   Letting Poor Children Flee Public Schools
   ----
   By Hilary Stout
   Staff Reporter of the Wall Street Journal
The avowed goal of such voucher programs is to enable
low-income students to choose private schools, while spurring
public schools to improve. Choice proponents -- often an
unlikely mix of people from both ends of the political
spectrum -- say the issue is fairness, that the public-school
system is failing children from low-income areas because of
its reliance on local funding.
   Darren was planning to start his first year at a public
middle school that had the reputation of being dangerous and
required a long walk through a bad neighborhood. "I
absolutely didn't want him to go there," says his grandmother
Delores Watson, who is on welfare and is raising Darren while
his mother struggles to provide for two other children.
   Then Ms. Watson heard about Golden Rule. "If it hadn't
been for this program, I wouldn't have been able to afford to
send him to Holy Cross," she says. The new school, only three
blocks from home, "is just all the difference in the world,"
she says. "You don't have to worry about your child being
beat up. You don't have to worry about people calling them
names. He loves it there."
   But Darren Ashby's withdrawal from the Indianapolis Public
Schools has cost the system over $4,000 in state assistance.
Because Indiana distributes educational funds on a
per-student basis, the departure of 400 students to take part
in the Golden Rule program has drained more than $1.6 million
from the public schools.
   "We're already very short of the total fiscal resources
that we need," says Shirl Gilbert, public-schools
superintendent. He charges that the program is "siphoning off
students," and protests that Golden Rule's creators didn't
let the school system know of their plans before a news
conference announcing the program last August.
   Faced with the Golden Rule plan, the Indianapolis school
board this week approved a public-school choice plan. The
notion of letting parents send children to the public school
of their choice is winning acceptance: Communities in more
than 30 states offer some form of public-school choice, or
have choice proposals pending. The idea behind these plans is
much the same as for private-school programs: Let parents
select better schools, and force other schools to improve.
   Private-school choice programs, though, have drawn harsh
criticism in Washington and around the country, making public
funding problematic. Opponents say such programs would
undermine the nation's system of public education; to truly
improve American education, they argue, politicians,
businesses and others should focus their efforts on schools
that are open to all. "I fear this is the first step toward
abandonment of our system of universal public education,"
Sen. Howard Metzenbaum, an Ohio Democrat, said recently on
the Senate floor.
   The use of public money toward parochial school tuitions
is especially controversial. Opponents argue that it would
represent an unconstitutional violation of the separation of
church and state.
   What sets Indianapolis's privately backed program apart
from proposed government vouchers is that lawyers and
legislators can't do much to stop it. A plan by the city of
Milwaukee to give vouchers to poor families to send their
children to private schools is ensnared in the courts. And
President Bush's widely publicized proposals to use federal
money to help students attend the public or private school of
their choice have been squelched in Congress.
   Golden Rule organizers say they have received queries from
business leaders all over the country, including Boston and
Phoenix. In Michigan, the majority leader of the state
Senate, Republican Richard Posthumus, has set up a private,
nonprofit foundation to raise money to offer vouchers
covering half the private-school tuition for low-income
children in Detroit and Grand Rapids.
   "In Michigan we have a constitutional prohibition for
having state money go toward any nonpublic school," says Phil
Douma, Mr. Posthumus's director of district affairs. "When
the senator heard about the Golden Rule program, he thought
it would be ideal for Michigan."
   Pierre du Pont, the former governor of Delaware, has been
talking with business and community leaders about
establishing a similar program there. "It's a perfect example
of the private sector beginning to solve a public-sector
problem," says Mr. Du pont, who as a presidential candidate
in 1988 advocated educational choice.
   Education Secretary Lamar Alexander, who calls the Golden
Rule plan "a terrific idea," has made choice a cornerstone of
the Bush administration's education plan. President Bush
proposed in his fiscal 1993 budget to spend $500 million on
"choice grants," but faces another round of opposition from
Democratic lawmakers.
   A group of business executives in Indianapolis also had
been getting nowhere in pushing education legislation that
included a private-school choice provision. So last August,
Golden Rule Insurance Co. surprised the city by offering $1.2
million in vouchers to help low-income parents cover the cost
of sending their children to any of Indianapolis's 40 private
and parochial elementary and middle schools. The company is
based in Illinois, but it has a big office in Indianapolis,
where chairman J. Patrick Rooney works most of the time.
   "I didn't see anything happening in the near future on
educational choice," Mr. Rooney says. "So we decided, hell,
we'd do something."
   More than 700 students have taken Golden Rule up on the
offer, nearly 400 of them leaving the Indianapolis public
elementary and middle schools, which have about 36,600
students. (The others were already enrolled in private
schools, but qualified for the aid because they were on the
federal school-lunch subsidy program.) The vouchers -- which
pay for half the tuition bill, up to $800 -- were in so much
demand that Golden Rule's funding ran out. So
Indianapolis-based pharmaceutical giant Eli Lilly  Co.
pledged $75,000 over the next three years for more vouchers.
   Marsha Keyes, a divorced mother of three, receives Golden
Rule support to send her eighth-grade twins to the Indiana
Baptist Academy. Ms. Keyes disliked the public schools so
much that she scraped up money to enroll her twins in private
school when they entered seventh grade. Their elementary
school, she says, "was a nightmare. Randy got beaten up so
many times in the boys' bathroom it was unreal." At Indiana
Baptist, says Randy's twin, Renee, "I learn more. The
teachers help you with your homework. You do a lot more
stuff. They try to make education fun."
   But the $2,700-a-year tuition for the twins became too
much of a burden, and Ms. Keyes was planning to put them back
in the public schools until Golden Rule came along. "What's
wrong with the private schools getting some help and the
parents having a choice?" she asks.
   Parents say the private schools provide discipline,
individual attention and nurturing that is lacking in big
public schools. The parochial schools, many of which
perpetually operate at a deficit, welcome the influx of new
students and tuition money. Some have even added classes.
   Though critics say business's involvement amounts to a
desertion of the public education system at a time when it
needs corporate support, Mitch Daniels, Lilly's vice
president of corporate affairs, counters that the support for
Golden Rule is on top of -- not instead of -- support for
public schools. "Lilly every year contributes millions of
dollars to public education," Mr. Daniels says. "We see
Golden Rule as fully consistent with that. We think free
choice for consumers and competition that exists will improve
the public schools like nothing else."
   ---
   Private-School choice:
   Proposals and Programs
                                                                                                       

   These states are considering, or have acted on, proposals
to allow the use of taxpayer money toward private-school
tuition.
                                                                                                       

   Alabama --
   Legislation proposed for statewide private-school voucher
program
                                                                                                       

   California --
   Initiative on ballot this fall for statewide
private-school voucher program
                                                                                                       

   Florida --
   Private-school voucher proposal pending in the legislature
                                                                                                       

   Illinois --
   Private-school voucher proposal pending in the legislature
                                                                                                       

   Maryland --
   Legislature considering proposal for demonstration
low-income voucher program
                                                                                                       

   Oregon --
   Initiative will appear on the ballot in 1994 for
private-school voucher program
                                                                                                       

   Pennsylvania --
   Legislature last fall rejected statewide private-school
voucher bill
                                                                                                       

   Vermont --
   Students in communities without public schools may attend
private schools at taxpayer expense
                                                                                                       

   West Virginia --
   Private-school voucher proposal pending in the legislature
                                                                                                       

   Wisconsin --
   State supreme court decision is pending on Milwaukee
low-income voucher program

   Source: American Legislative Exchange Council