Commodities:
   Producers of Natural Gas Face
   Dilemma as Prices Hit New Lows
   ----
   By Robert Johnson
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Prices are "ridiculous," complained Robert J. Allison Jr.,
chairman and chief executive officer of Anadarko Petroleum
Corp. in Houston. He's turning off the well valves to trim
February production by 150 million cubic feet a day. But to
actually influence prices, the industry would have to slash
production by at least two billion cubic feet a day, or about
4% of the U.S. total, analysts said.
   The apparent futility of Anadarko's action underscores the
frustration of many producers. "We cannot and will not give
away our stockholders' long-term assets" at current prices,
said Mr. Allison.
   The dilemma for such companies: sell gas at a loss or
close wells, possibly forgoing revenue needed to sustain some
operations. Last week's prices to producers hovered slightly
above $1 per thousand cubic feet, less than half the price in
January 1990. Many energy analysts had forecast prices
exceeding $1.50 for this month.
   All this touched off a new round of forecasts of layoffs
and producer bankruptcies. Vinod Dar, a gas industry
consultant in Washington, estimates the 5,000 current U.S.
producers may be trimmed to 2,500 in the next two years and
that the industry may lose 25,000 jobs by the late 1990s.
Analysts are lowering their first-quarter earnings estimates
for many producers.
   "The domestic exploration industry is in meltdown," said
Raymond Plank, chairman and chief executive of Apache Corp.
in Denver. Apache said last week that it will reduce its gas
sales in February by about 100 million cubic feet a day on
the spot market.
   Plains Resources Inc. in Houston said Friday that it would
consider sales of natural gas at present prices to be "a
waste of company assets." The company vowed to slash sales on
the spot market in February.
   Mitchell Energy  Development Corp., Woodlands, Texas,
said it won't sell gas for less than $1.50 per thousand cubic
feet, widely considered a break-even price by producers. "We
just can't find gas for less than that price, so why sell
it?" said Chairman George Mitchell. But he conceded that the
policy "hurts cash flow."
   Complaints about prices and temporary closings of wells
during the summer aren't uncommon in the gas industry; but
producers count on the November-through-February period for
two-thirds of their profit, analysts say. "That makes this
price collapse especially painful," said Robin Shoemaker, an
analyst at Shearson Lehman Brothers. "Now we have weak demand
in the winter as well as in the summer."
   Many gas industry officials had hoped that demand this
winter would counter the record low summer prices of 1991.
Some producers say that this winter hasn't been cold enough.
   "But we've had a real winter in many parts of the
country," said Mr. Dar, the industry consultant. "You can't
blame warm weather for February futures prices being below
those of last April." In fact, the National Weather Service
says that although this winter will probably prove warmer
than normal in the northern U.S., it will be colder in the
Southeast.
   Mr. Dar said that natural-gas prices reflect a supply glut
and the emergence of some producers who are taking advantage
of tax credits for newly discovered fuel that allow them to
profit while discounting. "If someone else is selling gas for
$1, you can't get $2 for yours," he reasoned.
   The level of U.S. gas in storage is actually 5% lower than
a year ago, down to about three trillion cubic feet,
according to John Olson, an analyst at Goldman, Sachs  Co.
But that's still enough to supply the entire nation for about
50 days, compared with a 60-day inventory a year ago, he
said. It will take a far bigger dent in that stored supply to
spur prices, he said.
   Worse for the industry, it's widely known among big gas
customers such as utilities and corporations that new
pipelines adding a collective two billion cubic feet of
natural gas capacity to the nation's supply system are
expected to come on line in the next few weeks.
   "Thus, more gas will be available faster. Metaphorically,
this is just toxic waste to other producers who must compete
against it," said Mr. Olson. The new capacity will come on
line just as the nation's gas demand traditionally starts to
drop from 70 billion cubic feet a day in February to 38
billion in June.
   The price slump is even eroding the earnings of major oil
companies who have big natural-gas operations. On Friday,
Exxon Corp. cited natural gas prices in the U.S. as an
important factor in its 28% slide in fourth-quarter net
income. Mobil Corp. cited lower natural gas prices as well as
lower oil prices in explaining its 38% drop in the fourth
quarter. Those companies' year-earlier profits also reflected
a run-up in energy prices before the Persian Gulf War.
   The 1990s were supposed to be a golden era for the gas
industry. Repeated threats of oil shortages, ever-tougher
pollution laws and federal tax credits for certain
exploration costs seemed to guarantee that gas would become
the dominant fossil fuel. Instead, the industry's share of
the $240 billion energy market slipped to 24% in 1990 from
33% in 1970, and high-polluting coal bit off big chunks of
business from relatively clean-burning gas.
   Many utilities built coal-fired power plants in the 1980s
in reaction to federal legislation of the late 1970s,
inspired by then-President Jimmy Carter and since repealed,
that discouraged utilities' use of gas to preserve what was
then considered a limited supply. Although many of the newer
power plants can burn gas too, many utilities prefer coal
because coal suppliers agree to long-term contracts that gas
producers avoid. Says a Mitchell Energy official, "We'd put
ourselves out of business with long-term contracts at today's
prices."
   Looking ahead to commodity markets this week:
                                                                                                       

   Grains
                                                                                                       

   Weather considerations and anticipation of President
Bush's State of the Union address will dominate grain futures
trading this week.
   The soybean-growing regions of southern Brazil have seen
sustained dryness. With the soybean crop entering its
weather-sensitive pod-filling stage, the crop needs rain
soon. More dryness would be likely to damage the crop and
exert upward pressure on soybean futures prices.
   The South African corn crop has been suffering under
similarly parched conditions that if sustained could push up
corn futures prices.
   And traders will be watching to see whether the president
mentions the possibility of additional aid to the former
Soviet Union in his address.
                                                                                                       

   Precious Metals
                                                                                                       

   Trading in silver and platinum will be affected by how the
president's State of the Union address tomorrow influences
perceptions about the economy, said Jeff Nichols, the Boca
Raton, Fla., publisher of Metals Fax, an industry newsletter.
   If the president makes proposals that people believe will
boost the economy, the improved sentiment should help
industrial metals such as silver and platinum, he said.
   Gold has been under pressure from an unusual flow of
supply entering the market in recent weeks, Mr. Nichols said.
Speculation on the source has centered on possible sales by
Eastern European central banks or by Abu Dhabi, he said.
   There was also talk that the gold had been collateral for
Soviet credit agreements called swaps. Comments by Russian
officials about the republic's difficulties in servicing debt
suggest it may have been a bigger seller of gold, as well as
platinum, than was previously thought, Mr. Nichols said.
   Recent weak platinum prices and higher platinum lease
rates are consistent with platinum swaps being paid off or,
in the case of a default, the collateral being sold, he said.
In swaps, the platinum is deposited with the lender, who in
turn leases the metal out. When the swap is paid off, the
collateral is returned; in the case of a default, the metal
is sold. In both cases, the metal isn't available for lease,
which when large amounts are involved could cause lease rates
to rise.
   The gold and platinum sales aren't likely to continue in
the long run, Mr. Nichols said, but it isn't clear yet
whether they've run their course.
                                                                                                       

   Copper
                                                                                                       

   Traders are beginning to view non-ferrous metals such as
copper more optimistically, said Mike Frawley, metals trader
at Dean Witter. Demand is beginning to improve, particularly
from Asia, and copper users are working off lean inventories,
he said. On Friday, copper for March delivery ended at 98.9
cents a pound, up 1.9 cents.