Technology  Medicine:
   Johnson  Johnson's Retin-A Can Ease
   Problem of Liver Spots, Researchers Say
   ----
   By Michael Waldholz
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
In a report in this week's New England Journal of
Medicine, researchers at University of Michigan Medical
Center in Ann Arbor report that liver spot skin discolorings
lightened significantly for 20 of 24 elderly test subjects
who rubbed the cream on their face every day for 10 months.
Only eight of 28 test subjects given a plain cream without
the drug achieved somewhat similar results.
   The results are significantly better than any other
treatment previously tried, the researchers said.
   Retin-A is approved for marketing by Johnson  Johnson's
Ortho subsidiary only as an acne treatment. But the drug
already is widely prescribed by doctors to prevent and treat
wrinkling and to lighten liver spots and freckles caused by
long-term exposure to the sun. Retin-A's sales exploded in
1988 after the same University of Michigan researchers
reported that the drug significantly smoothed wrinkles in
test subjects.
   One day prior to the publication of the research team's
wrinkle report, Ortho sponsored a widely attended news
conference in New York announcing the finding. The Justice
Department is investigating allegations that Johnson 
Johnson then paid doctors to appear on talk shows and give
interviews about the effectiveness of Retin-A as a treatment
for wrinkles and other sun-damaged skin conditions, and that
it sponsored medical conferences in which the benefits of the
drug were discussed.
   Johnson  Johnson has said its dissemination of
information about research was proper.
   But Johnson  Johnson and Ortho have kept quiet about the
new liver spot study. The company didn't issue a news release
and John J. Voorhees, the dermatology researcher who led the
anti-wrinkling study and the new one, refused to talk with
reporters. Dr. Voorhees has been criticized for helping to
promote Retin-A.
   In fact, the New England Journal carried an unusual
footnote to the report noting Johnson  Johnson funded the
latest liver spot research but "had no part in the design or
conduct of the study or in the analysis, interpretation or
reporting of the results." The Journal also noted that Dr.
Voorhees and his colleague Charles N. Ellis served as paid
consultants to Johnson  Johnson during part of the liver
spot study.
   Federal law prohibits drug makers from promoting a drug
for an unapproved use. Ortho has applied to the Food and Drug
Administration to sell a version of Retin-A, under the brand
name Renova, for sun damage problems such as wrinkling. Under
the law, Ortho can't promote the wrinkling or liver spot
findings. But the new report's appearance in the New England
Journal is certain to attract the attention of physicians and
the public.
   Many dermatologists already prescribe Retin-A for problems
other than acne based on previously published research. The
law doesn't prohibit doctors from prescribing medicines for
unapproved uses. Annual sales of Retin-A are about $100
million.