Commodities:
   Late Rally in Oil Prices Helps World Markets
   To Narrow Some of the Week's Earlier Losses
   ----
   By James Tanner
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Two more OPEC members -- Indonesia and the United Arab
Emirates -- announced temporary output cuts of 25,000 and
50,000 barrels a day, respectively, to help prop up prices.
But it wasn't clear what role this may have had in
yesterday's pricing turnaround.
   Some traders attributed the rally to technical factors.
But the oil ministers of the Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries meet Feb. 12 in Geneva to decide on
production levels for the next few months. And some of them
are predicting a price rebound leading up to that meeting in
the wake of the OPEC-wide cuts of 415,000 barrels a day that
have taken place in the past few days.
   Celestino Armas, the oil minister of Venezuela, told
reporters in Caracas late Tuesday that prices would begin
recovering by today at the latest. Wednesday, in Jakarta,
Ginandjar Kartasasmita, the Indonesian oil minister, said the
cutbacks should at least curb the recent declines. "We want
to show that OPEC will not allow the oil price to continue to
fall," he said.
   Nine of OPEC's 13 members, including Saudi Arabia, have
announced cuts. Excluded are the two smallest members,
Ecuador and Gabon, and two countries still sidelined by the
1990-1991 Persian Gulf crisis, Kuwait and Iraq. But the
individual cuts are modest, ranging from 20,000 to 100,000
barrels a day, and it is believed some oil is counted that
can't be sold at the moment anyway.
   Also, the reductions total less than 2% of OPEC's recent
output of 24.2 million barrels a day. Most oil analysts and
traders insist the cuts will have to be far deeper if OPEC is
to balance supplies with second-quarter demand for its oil.
Still, some oil analysts suggest that the temporary cuts
should be enough to put a floor under falling oil prices and
perhaps even trigger a recovery.
   William H. Brown III, international oil analyst at Kidder,
Peabody  Co., said he still holds to earlier estimates that
prices for West Texas Intermediate, the U.S. benchmark crude,
will average $20 to $21 a barrel this year. "Prior to the
OPEC meeting, we may see $18.50 as a bottom, but I expect
gradual improvement," he said.
   In other commodity markets yesterday:
                                                                                                       

   GRAINS AND SOYBEANS: Prospects of additional foreign
demand, coupled with generally tight stocks of U.S. wheat,
pushed wheat futures prices higher. Traders expect Egypt to
place orders soon for the remaining 600,000 tons of wheat
allotted to it under existing export credits granted by the
U.S. Agriculture Department. In addition, Exportkelb -- the
import-export agent for the Commonwealth of Independent
States -- has been actively booking freight, some of which
may be used for shipping of U.S. wheat. And Jordan and
Pakistan have indicated their intention to buy foreign wheat.
This, while not directly related to demand for U.S. wheat,
nevertheless has the effect of pushing global wheat futures
prices higher. At the Chicago Board of Trade yesterday, the
wheat contract for March delivery rose 3.25 cents to $4.2725
a bushel.
                                                                                                       

   COCOA: Futures prices fell following a report by a trade
house. Cocoa for March delivery ended $12 a ton lower at
$1,190. At first glance, the report by Gill  Duffus, a
division of London commodity merchants E.D.  F. Man Ltd.,
was bullish. The trade house raised its estimate of how much
production would fall short of consumption this season, to
177,000 metric tons; it had forecast a shortage of 148,000
tons in September. Consumption of cocoa is projected to rise
to a record 2,390,000 tons in the season ending September
1992 from 2,347,000 tons last year. Meanwhile, production
will decline significantly, particularly in the Ivory Coast,
Ghana and Nigeria, the report said. "The developing `El Nino'
weather pattern may pose a threat to crops throughout the
cocoa growing areas of the world," the report said. "The
market faces a sequence of deficits," Gill  Duffus
predicted, and, as a result, "the general trend of bean
prices will be up rather than down." Prices fell yesterday,
however, because the report also raised last season's
increase in world stocks by even more than it raised this
season's projected deficit, said Arthur Stevenson, an analyst
at Prudential Securities. That change caused disappointed
traders to liquidate their long positions, or bets the price
will rise, by selling offsetting contracts. The news also
caused industry buying to dry up, he added.

   SUGAR: Futures prices rallied. Sugar for March delivery
ended 0.21 cent a pound higher at 8.62 cents. Arthur
Stevenson, an analyst at Prudential Securities, attributed
the activity to reports that Cuba had concluded an agreement
with Iran to sell 200,000 tons of sugar. Also contributing to
the rise was light buying by commodity funds based on
technical factors, he said. Sugar has been trading in a
sideways pattern since August, he said, adding he expects
prices will remain in a range of 8.1 cents to 9.28 cents for
a while.