Politics  Policy:
   Bush Creates a Controversy by Naming
   Auto Lobbyist for Japan to Campaign Job
   ----
   By Jill Abramson
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The ties between Mr. Lake and the Japanese auto-parts
industry are already creating controversy. Yesterday, at
several campaign stops in New Hampshire, Patrick Buchanan,
the conservative columnist who is challenging President Bush
for the GOP nomination, pointedly mentioned Mr. Lake's
lobbying. Mr. Buchanan is also hammering another Bush
campaign strategist, Charles Black, for lobbying on behalf of
what the candidate says is a Japanese-dominated sector of the
seafood-processing industry. The lobbyists' Japanese
connections make the Bush campaign "a wholly owned subsidiary
of Japan Inc.," according to Mr. Buchanan.
   Almost overnight, it seems, the emotion-filled issue of
trade relations with Japan has erupted into name-calling and
finger-pointing directed at lobbyists and foreign agents
representing Japanese interests. The Republicans aren't the
only ones being called upon to answer for such ties either.
   Mr. Lake dismisses the allegations and says Democrats
tried unsuccessfully to make his Japanese clients an issue
four years ago. Mr. Lake says he doesn't actually lobby for
the Japanese auto-parts industry, but does provide his client
with information on trade matters. "I've always done things
that are in the best interests of this country," says Mr.
Lake, who is volunteering his services to the Bush campaign
in the area of communications.
   Mr. Black dismisses Mr. Buchanan's criticisms as "totally
bogus" and says the fishing association he represents
contains U.S.-owned companies, as well as those that have
Japanese investors.
   For its part, a spokesman for the Bush-Quayle campaign
says, "The campaign fully trusts Charlie's and Jim's judgment
in this area. They're not going to mix their business and
campaign business."
   Mr. Buchanan isn't the only one concerned about the
involvement of Japantied lobbyists in the president's
re-election effort. "It's beyond cynical," complains John
Cregan, president of the U.S. Business and Industrial Council
and a loud critic of Japan. "You have the president saying
he's talking tough to the Japanese and bragging about this
auto parts agreement, and then we find out that the
campaign's No. 1 spin-doctor is the lobbyist for Japan's
auto-parts industry."
   Mr. Cregan and some of the U.S. auto makers who
accompanied the president to Japan say that, while the
Japanese pledged to double their use of U.S. auto parts
during the president's visit to Tokyo, the voluntary
agreement will not provide a significant boost to the
domestic auto-parts industry. Pat Choate, a critic of Japan's
huge lobbying presence in the U.S., says Mr. Lake has helped
the Japanese autoparts industry keep its market closed to
U.S. products. "I have done nothing to keep their market
closed," responds Mr. Lake.
   In the U.S., it's not unusual for high government
officials and politicians to leave office and become paid
lobbyists for foreign interests. In Japan, however, it's
unheard of.
   Mr. Choate points out that several of Arkansas Gov. Bill
Clinton's outside campaign advisers, including Washington
lawyers Stuart Eizenstat and Samuel Berger, represent
Japanese clients. A spokesman for the Clinton campaign says
that the two attorneys are not advising the Democratic
presidential candidate on trade matters, and that his
principal economic advisers do no lobbying on behalf of
Japanese interests.
   Additionally, a campaign spokesman for Sen. Robert Kerrey
is affiliated with Mr. Lake's firm, and the wife of Sen. Tom
Harkin, another Democratic presidential contender, is an
attorney with a Washington law firm that once represented
Fujitsu Ltd.
   "The lobbying issue is going to have a lot of resonance,"
says Mr. Cregan. "The American people weren't sensitized to
it four years ago. Now they understand that its part of the
decline of U.S. sovereignty," he says.