On Super Tuesday,
   None of the Above
   Faces Absent Pony
   ----
   By Robert L. Bartley
The president rubbed a lot of voters raw by backtracking
on his "read my lips" pledge. It's not so much that voters
are selfish and wouldn't be willing to pay more in taxes if
they got their money's worth. Mostly they're angry that they
have no impact on an inbred ruling class. It's not as simple
as politicians always breaking their promises. Rather,
campaign pledges are written in the wind, like no new taxes,
when they constrain the power of the ruling class. But the
most preposterous pledge, like no net loss of wetlands, is
engraved in stone if it expands Beltway class power at the
expense of ordinary serfs.
   Mr. Bush tipped his hat to the serfs, of course, by saying
his budget deal was a mistake. But Budget Director Richard
Darman has openly proclaimed the need for another budget
summit after the election, when Remocrats and Depublicans can
cut deals without interference from uppity voters. And the
president's "mistake" comment came so off-handedly it did
little to remove the suspicion that in a second term he'd
revert to form.
   Republican challenger Pat Buchanan taps the anger, but
then drowns it in pessimism. His ultimate message is that
Americans can't handle the challenges of the world abroad, or
the challenges of modernity at home. We must seal ourselves
off from the world with "hardball" trade tactics and Berlin
Walls against immigrants. Funny-looking folks with strange
habits are to be seen as a threat, not as new pilgrims to the
American dream. Mr. Buchanan sounds the trumpet loud and
clear, but the tune is retreat.
   ---
   On the Democratic side, Gov. Bill Clinton seems to have
held his position as the choice of the Democratic Party
establishment. But the salient aspect of his candidacy is
that he survived at the sufferance of the Washington press
corps. The press pack chose not to treat the Gennifer Flowers
charges the way the Seattle Times treated the accusations
against Sen. Brock Adams. Arguably this restraint was good,
but it leaves candidate Clinton or President Clinton to walk
a mine field. The press has a fickle fuse.
   Former Sen. Paul Tsongas beat death by bucking party
dogma. If you're worried about global warming, for example,
don't rule out nuclear power. Most of all, he has pointedly
abjured the class-warfare mantra sacred to the Democratic
Party establishment. It remains to be seen if this will
really sell in the party, or whether voters will find Mr.
Tsongas's presence a sufficiently presidential one.
   Jerry Brown made his mark by being not only outside the
establishment but out of bounds. Jay Leno says the Brown
message is that the Japanese aren't our enemy; our real enemy
is the Klingons. Primary voters in Colorado decided that his
message pretty much expressed their own sentiments about
politics.
   At one point the Democratic race had a candidate with
obvious common sense. Gov. Douglas Wilder got in, achieved
the purpose of establishing himself as vice-presidential
timber, and got out without shedding blood or too much money.
The voters whizzed by Sen. Bob Kerrey's anti-Japanese hockey
goalie, not to mention his national health plan. Sen. Tom
Harkin, billing himself as the only good old-fashioned
Democrat, pulled out just in time to beat Super Tuesday
voters out of their chance to consign him to oblivion.
   The message seems to be that old-fashioned big-government,
blame-America-first Democrats can't hack it even with
Democratic primary voters. They continue to dominate
Congress, it seems, and there's room to wonder whether a
Democratic president, once elected, would not also revert to
form. How much faith should we put in the Tsongas death-bed
conversion, let alone in a man married to someone expressing
Hillary Clinton's views?
   ---
   The remarkable thing about this year's national ticket,
indeed, is that no one is claiming the position that won
three presidential landslides in a row. Where is the
candidate who stands squarely for a smaller government at
home and more leadership in the world? And who offers Yankee
optimism about doing both, affirming the decency and
greatness of the American experiment?
   What kind of candidate do we need to beat none of the
above? Someone not tarnished by opposition to the subduing of
Saddam Hussein, or perhaps even someone who would have
subdued him entirely. Someone not privy to the tax-boosting
budget deal, or at the very least who would apologize for it
as politically necessary with Desert Storm impending. Someone
whose closet skeletons have been exhaustively vetted. Someone
able to attract a staff widely recognized as smarter than
himself. Someone who gives us the sense that he would follow
his own set principles despite various conventional wisdoms.
Someone seen as not quite fit for admission to the Washington
establishment.
   If we put a national candidate like that up against old
none of the above, some press corps bigfeet might even stop
for reassessment. Come to think of it, one national candidate
was just reassessed in a seven-part series by David Broder
and Bob Woodward. I guess the Washington Post stars are once
again at the head of the pack. Scanning Super Tuesday's
national entrants, the obvious choice as class of the field
is J. Danforth Quayle.
   ---
   Mr. Bartley is editor of the Journal.