Law -- Legal Beat:
   Some Dalkon Shield Claimants
   Attack Trust's Settlement Policies
   ----
   By Milo Geyelin and Arthur S. Hayes
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
The controversy is a low point in relations between the
trust and claimants in what was conceived as an innovative
plan to resolve thousands of Shield-related injury claims.
The trust evolved out of the reorganization of A.H. Robins
Co., the maker of the contraceptive device, which filed for
bankruptcy protection to freeze thousands of product
liability suits in 1985.
   The Shield was used by an estimated 3.9 million women
world-wide between 1971 and 1974, even as Robins became aware
that it caused severe gynecological infections, often
resulting in infertility. The trust fund was designed to
encourage settlements of claims and to promote arbitration
instead of trials.
   So far, about 80% of the claimants are settling amicably,
according to the trust. The continuing dispute involves women
claiming severe injuries who are getting low settlement
offers, usually because of missing or inadequate medical
records.
   When they voted to approve the reorganization plan in
1988, women were promised they would be free to contest low
settlement offers, either through binding arbitration or by
jury trial. But according to arguments filed by Baltimore
attorney Michael Pretl and 34 other claimants' attorneys, the
trust has drafted arbitration rules to its own advantage.
Under the trust's rules, arbitrations will be governed by
Virginia law instead of the laws of the state where the
individual suits were filed. Lawyers for the trust maintain
that a single legal standard is more efficient, but lawyers
for claimants point out that Virginia law is among the
nation's most restrictive toward plaintiffs.
   The trust has also drafted a three-year statute of
limitations for bringing claims to arbitration, meaning that
any claims brought after that period would be invalid.
According to the rules, the clock starts ticking when a
claimant discovers, "or reasonably should have discovered,"
an injury that was a ground for a suit.
   Trust lawyers argue that the standard is one of the most
flexible in the country. But lawyers for claimants say it
could result in thousands of valid claims being rejected.
Evidence of the Shield's defects was concealed from consumers
and became widely known only after lawyers suing Robins
obtained internal documents. A more generous approach,
claimants' lawyers argue, would start the clock on the day a
claimant discovered that her injury was caused by a defective
product.
   Claimants who feel at a disadvantage under these
arbitration rules will opt for more expensive jury trials,
their lawyers say. The result will be added costs for the
trust and a further depletion of fund assets intended for
victims.
   Trust officials say that 20% of the women who have
rejected settlement offers have elected binding arbitration.
Eighty percent want jury trials, but most of those claimants
already had suits pending when Robins filed for bankruptcy
protection, according to Michael Sheppard, the trust's
executive director.
   Perhaps more controversial, however, is the trust's
so-called holdback policy, whereby a $10,000 cap has been put
on jury and arbitration awards until the trust is sure it has
enough money to satisfy all remaining 40,000 active claims.
Litigants awarded more than $10,000 still could face years of
delay before receiving full compensation.
   Lawyers for the trust say the holdback is necessary
because of the possibility of big arbitration or jury awards
depleting the fund. The trust's priority, says Georgene
Vairo, a professor at Fordham University School of Law and
the trust's chairman, is to preserve assets.
   But Public Citizen Litigation Group, a Washington, D.C.,
public interest law group representing claimants, maintains
in legal papers that the provision is intended to bludgeon
claimants into forgoing litigation and accepting settlement
offers. The trust has not submitted any evidence that its
assets are -- or even might be -- insufficient, contends
Public Citizen Director Alan Morrison.
   In June, Judge Merhige rejected those arguments.
Subsequently, he met with trust officials to review financial
data without notifying lawyers for claimants. In September,
he filed a three-paragraph order affirming his decision but
sealed a summary of the information he was shown, saying it
was highly confidential.
   That alone constituted a violation of due process,
according Mr. Morrison, because claimants were not given a
chance to challenge the data. Trust lawyers counter that
Judge Merhige said in May that he would seek additional data
he needed to justify the holdback and that no lawyers for
claimants objected.
   ---
   PHOTOCOPYING OF NEWSLETTER is banned by court for the
first time.
   A federal judge in Dallas permanently stopped Enmark Gas
Corp., a Dallas-based gas distributor, from "cover-to-cover
photocopying and facsimile transmission" of Gas Daily, a
newsletter published by Pasha Publications Inc., Arlington,
Va.
   Judge A. Joe Fish ruled that Enmark infringed Pasha's
copyright by distributing copies to employees without the
publisher's permission. The ruling is the first court victory
for newsletter publishers, who have launched an offensive
against what they call an epidemic of illegal newsletter
photocopying by business subscribers.
   Several copyright infringement lawsuits brought by
newsletter publishers have been settled out of court and
others are pending. But until now, the question of whether a
subscriber is entitled to make a few copies of a newsletter
and distribute them in-house had been left unanswered by
courts.
   Under the federal copyright law's fair use doctrine,
photocopying for research and noncommercial use is permitted.
Courts have found, for example, that the doctrine protects a
college professor who copies portions of journals or books
for scholarly research, but not if multiple copies will be
distributed to students.
   Newsletter publishers argue that the law does not protect
businesses that distribute full photocopies of newsletters to
employees, because that cheats them of additional
subscribers. Subscribers counter that the practice is proper
because publishers don't lose substantial revenue and may
even be helped by the increased exposure their newsletters
receive.
   Judge Fish ruled that Enmark's unauthorized copying "had
an obvious detrimental effect on the potential market for Gas
Daily."
   Lee Levin, a partner with Ross, Dixon  Masback in
Washington, which represented Pasha Publications, said the
parties had settled the case contingent on the ruling and
that no appeal is expected. He said the terms of the
settlement prohibited him from disclosing whether Enmark will
pay damages.
   Neal Tomlin, a partner with the Tulsa, Okla., law firm
Baker  Hoster, which represented Enmark, noted that Judge
Fish found the company was unaware that its actions were
improper.
   (Pasha Publications vs. Enmark Gas, U.S. District Court,
Dallas, No.3-S2CV0027-G)