International:
   Japan Government Cleared of Blame
   In Minamata Industrial Pollution Case
   ----
   By Jacob M. Schlesinger
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The problems first surfaced in the southern Japan port in
1956, and were ultimately linked with Chisso Corp.'s dumping
nerve-damaging mercury from its fertilizer plant into the
bay. Poignant photographs of deformed children drew
international attention to the case in the 1970s.
   The chemical company is paying damages to more than 2,000
certified victims. But about 2,000 more residents who claimed
they were injured have long been demanding in court that a
"negligent" government help shoulder the costs, as well as
the guilt. But on Friday a three-judge panel of the Tokyo
district court "denied the responsibility of the government,"
an Environment Agency spokesman said in a TV interview. "The
government's case has been proved correct."
   "The government is free. I don't believe it," said
Masazumi Harada, a medical school professor who has studied
and treated Minamata victims for 30 years. "In what case,
then, does the government have responsibility?"
   Japanese newspaper editorials over the weekend were
sharply critical. "Protecting the life and health of the
nation in the broader sense is considered to be the role of
the government," said the Nihon Keizai Shimbun, Japan's
leading financial daily.
   The ruling highlights what critics say is the difficulty
victims face challenging the Japanese establishment, the dark
side of a society that boasts of its paternalistic,
unlitigious ways.
   Friday's decision also spotlights Japan's blemished
environmental history at a time when Tokyo is trying to
persuade the world that it has cleaned up its behavior and
has become the developed world's most environmentally
friendly economy. In absolving the government of legal
responsibility, the court in effect was saying that "the
Minamata disease was caused by a society that pursues high
economic growth without regard to human health," the Asahi
Shimbun newspaper said in a commentary.
   The ruling by no means clears the legal thicket that
surrounds Minamata. The plaintiffs indicated they would
appeal, and similar cases are wending their way through a
half dozen independent courts in other regions of Japan.
   The question of government responsibility has been one of
the more wrenching aspects of the Minamata saga. Critics say
Japanese bureaucrats long knew of the damage from Chisso's
actions before stepping in, and may have actually encouraged
the company's behavior as part of the country's headlong,
postwar industrialization drive. Government officials have
argued that they did try to stop Chisso, and that, as the
court Friday agreed, the government didn't have the proper
legal and regulatory authority at the time to do anything.
   The national government has steadfastly resisted all
pressure to even consider out-of-court payments to victims. A
year ago, several courts around the country urged then-Prime
Minister Toshiki Kaifu's government to negotiate, although
they didn't go so far as to say the government bore legal
responsibility. In 1987, a court in Kumamoto Prefecture,
where Minamata is located, did declare the national and
prefectural government legally culpable. That decision is on
appeal.
   The plaintiff's lawyers said Friday's Tokyo district court
ruling was disappointing on other fronts as well. The court
declared that Chisso should pay 42 more residents
compensation -- but only four million yen ($31,800) each,
compared with the 19.8 million yen they sought. It also
decided that 22 plaintiffs should get no compensation. The
Tokyo court still must decide the fate of about 400 more
plaintiffs, and 1,600 plaintiffs have similar cases before
other courts.