Proposed FIRAs May Be a Better Deal
   ----
   By Karen Slater
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
"There are a lot of pluses for the FIRA that are not
available with annuities," says William G. Brennan, a partner
at accountants Ernst  Young and editor of the Ernst  Young
Financial Planning Reporter. He believes more people would
take advantage of the FIRA than have purchased annuities.
   Annuities enable holders to defer income taxes until money
is withdrawn. But earnings taken out before age 59 1/2 are
subject to a 10% penalty tax as well as ordinary income tax.
   With FIRAs, withdrawal penalties would apply for only the
first three years. And earnings on the accounts would be
totally exempt from federal income tax after seven years.
   "It is better because you don't pay any taxes on the way
out," says Gary Strum, senior vice president and director of
retirement planning for Quest for Value mutual funds.
   Mr. Strum says another advantage of the FIRA is that
people would be able to get the tax advantages without having
to buy an insurance company contract and be limited to the
investment options within that contract. As with current
IRAs, he says, "you would have great freedom on investments."
   Investors who qualify for the FIRA could in essence create
their own annuity by applying the tax benefits to the
investments of their choice.
   The big hitch is that a lot of people who would find the
accounts attractive wouldn't qualify. As proposed, FIRAs
would be available only to individuals with adjusted gross
incomes of $60,000 and under, and couples with incomes of
$120,000 and under. There are no restrictions on who can buy
an annuity.
   Further, FIRA contributions would be limited to $2,500 a
person a year. There is no such limit on annuity investments.
   As a result, financial advisers note that the proposed
changes would be a net loss for higher-income taxpayers. Says
John Guild, a consultant at Zacks Investment Research in
Chicago: "They are just shifting the rules" in ways that
benefit some people but hurt others.
   (See related story: "Your Money Matters: Buyers Guide:
This May Be Last Chance To Purchase Annuities, but Use
Caution" -- WSJ Feb. 5, 1992)