International:
   China's Aging Leader Seems Set
   To Carve Reformist Ideas in Stone
   ---
   As People's Congress Opens,
   Hard Liners Lie Low;
   Legacy, but No Successor
   ----
   By James McGregor
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Mr. Li's shift is partly the result of a booming economy
and fading memories of the bloody suppression of the 1989
Tiananmen Square demonstrations that nearly toppled China's
Communist Party. But he also is being battered by the winds
of generational change.
   It has become clear in recent weeks that the post-Deng
Xiaoping era in China has already begun. The biggest player
in the transition is Mr. Deng himself. Mr. Li and other
officials are simply trying to ride out the turbulence that
Mr. Deng is stirring up.
   Analysts say Mr. Deng, now 87 years old, apparently
realizes that he has botched the job of designating a
successor with enough clout to carry forward his policies. So
he is trying to carve a political epitaph that will dictate
the course for whoever emerges as China's next strongman.
   "Deng knows his time is short, so he is laying down his
political legacy," says a Chinese government official. "He
wants his policies to live beyond him."
   But the mystery that has Beijing abuzz -- and which is
sure to dominate gossip at the otherwise routine and largely
irrelevant two-week annual legislative session -- is what has
gotten the old revolutionary so riled up right now?
   Does he sense death coming? Is he seizing an opening
created by the illnesses of aging opponents? Was his action
triggered by a leftist plot to turn back reforms? Did feuds
within the Communist aristocracy get out of control as
leaders maneuvered to get posts for their children?
   These explanations and others have been published in Hong
Kong and Taiwan newspapers and magazines, which are often
unreliable but sometimes privy to inside information on
China's power struggles. Interviews with diplomats,
government officials and Chinese intellectuals in Beijing
indicate that all of them may be true to varying degrees.
   "Something happened to inspire Deng to . . . preach the
mantra of reform, but we don't know what it is yet," says a
foreign diplomat who has watched Mr. Deng for more than a
decade.
   Since retiring as chairman of the Central Military
Commission in November 1989, Mr. Deng's only remaining
position is honorary president of the Chinese Bridge
Association (he is an avid card player). State media maintain
that Mr. Deng is retired and refer to Communist Party chief
Jiang Zemin as the "core" of a collective leadership that
includes Prime Minister Li and President Yang Shangkun.
   But six weeks ago, Mr. Deng quit dealing cards and started
dealing with his opponents. With a 10-day tour of Guangdong
province in January, followed by a 19-day stay in Shanghai,
he jumped back into the political ring swinging.
   In the prosperous, quasi-capitalist Guangdong cities of
Shenzhen, Zhuhai, Zhongshan, Shunde and Guangzhou (Canton),
Mr. Deng lashed out at leftist ideologues and advocated
bolder economic reforms. For wider circulation, Mr. Deng's
speeches to local government and party officials, along with
photos of him looking hale and hearty, were passed along to
Hong Kong media.
   Ming Pao, a Hong Kong paper with good China sources,
reported that Mr. Deng had criticized by name several
hardliners in charge of propaganda. They included Wang
Renzhi, director of the party's Propaganda Department, He
Jingzhi, acting minister of culture, and Gao Di, director of
the party mouthpiece People's Daily.
   In Shanghai, Mr. Deng met with Chen Yun, the patriarch of
the conservatives, to seek his agreement on accelerated
reform. Some accounts say Mr. Chen agreed, others say he
didn't. Mr. Deng did get President Yang aboard. A military
source says Mr. Yang even gave a speech to senior generals
from China's military regions strongly endorsing Mr. Deng's
plan.
   China's national press was silent on Mr. Deng's trip until
he returned to Beijing on Feb. 20. That day, the Shenzhen
Special Economic Zone Daily began an eight-part series based
on Mr. Deng's speeches. Four days later, a front-page
commentary in the People's Daily blamed many of China's
problems on "leftist errors" and "refusing to make use of
capitalism."
   The other shoe dropped on March 12, when all major Chinese
papers ran banner headlines announcing that the party
Politburo had adopted Mr. Deng's more progressive line. Party
members were instructed to study Mr. Deng's recent speeches
to "guard against leftism."
   Meanwhile, the three hard-liners criticized by Mr. Deng
have been keeping a low profile. Mr. He, the culture
minister, no longer reports to work, people at his ministry
say. The People's Daily, under Mr. Gao, has taken to printing
articles extolling reform. And Mr. Wang, the party
propagandist, has been silent.
   Thus the major consequence of Mr. Deng's southern sojourn
appears to have been to sweep aside a propaganda machine over
which he had lost control. "Deng got tired of compromising,"
says the government official. "He went out to capture the
capital from the countryside, a trick he learned from Mao
Tse-tung."
   Another result is that many liberal intellectuals and
government officials are expressing optimism for the first
time since the Tiananmen massacre. "I haven't felt this good
since I was throwing rocks at tanks in 1989," says one
intellectual who led several demonstrations. "I hate the
conservatives and really enjoy seeing Deng slap them down."
Wu Jinglian, a senior State Council economist, told reporters
that the past two years were a "relapse to the left" that is
now over.
   The practical result of Mr. Deng's accelerated reform line
is that the government may be able to break through some
difficult roadblocks. State industries are crumbling while
China's private sector thrives. Official statistics say that
40% of state factories are losing money; the true figure may
be 80% or more. But hardliners have prevented China from
using its bankruptcy law to make factories more efficient or
to develop systems for unemployment pay and other welfare
benefits because of ideological constraints against loss of
jobs.
   Similarly, the rigid bureaucracy prevents talented people
from seeking suitable jobs and paying higher salaries to more
productive workers. In one speech, Mr. Deng said it is so
important to put China's talent to good use that he welcomes
back students and other dissidents who fled abroad. A program
to pay some scientists bonuses is also in the works.