Marketing  Media:
   New Line Cinema
   Would Hold 49.5%
   In Revamped Orion
   ----
   By Kevin Goldman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
New Line would also acquire the rights to Orion's 1990
movie, "Mermaids," starring Cher. Mr. Kluge loaned Orion $29
million for the production of "Mermaids." New Line would take
the $29 million note and return it to Orion. Combined with
the cash infusion, New Line's total investment in Orion would
thus be $41.5 million.
   Subordinated bondholders would receive approximately 41.5%
of Orion's capital stock outstanding and $30 million in
principal amount of new 10% subordinated debentures due Feb.
28, 2007.
   The proposal, if approved, would enable Metromedia to hand
over active management of Orion to one of Hollywood's
fastrising independents, while retaining the opportunity to
get a stake in New Line's future.
   The plan, which was presented to Orion's creditor
committee this week, could open the door to other suitors.
Those said to be interested Orion include PolyGram N.V. and
King World Productions Inc.
   The two companies have said they don't comment on rumors.
   Michael Lynne, New Line's president and chief operating
officer, said in an interview that he was "more confident
than ever before" that the New Line proposal would be
approved. "We are in this to win," he said, adding the issue
is not whether a rival could outbid New Line but rather who
is best able to distribute Orion's product. New Line is the
only independent of any size with its own film distribution
operation, including theaters and home video.
   Wilbur Ross, senior managing director of Rothschild Inc.,
a New York firm representing Orion's bondholders, said the
cost of running the reorganized Orion under New Line would be
a lot lower "and earnings would increase, which is
attractive." However, he said the complex deal was far from
final and would have be examined. "There is a lot more that
needs to be done," he said.
   New Line said it was informed that Orion has scheduled a
board of directors meeting this week to discuss the proposal.