Economy:
   Manufacturers
   Remain Optimistic
   About Short Term
   ----
   By Dorothy J. Gaiter
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The company's industrial sentiment index had rebounded in
December from a five-month slide that began in July. The
optimism "suggests that an industry turnaround may be in
sight, simply because manufacturers' output rates are so low
that there is nowhere to go but up," Mr. Handler said.
   Meanwhile, a survey of 250 midsize manufacturers by Grant
Thornton, the accounting and consulting firm, indicates they
will keep research and development spending constant this
year, even though most expect profits this year to equal or
surpass 1991 results.
   Although overall sentiment among manufacturers remained
well below levels reported in the first few months of 1990 --
DB introduced the survey that January -- and expectations
for the coming 12 months remain unchanged, Mr. Handler said
that a close look at the economic picture does show some
basis for optimism. He noted in particular that the January
survey came after the Federal Reserve's December actions that
pushed down interest rates.
   "And from a purely macroeconomic view, there are lots of
industries that are poised for recovery," he said. "There's
been a spurt in housing activity. This is good news for
lumber and building materials manufacturers and the
manufacturers that supply the items that go into the houses.
   "The caveat is that we've seen this pattern before, and in
fact by midyear last year, there was a discernible
improvement in the manufacturing sector, but it wasn't
sustainable," Mr. Handler said.
   The index of expectations is calculated by combining
responses of survey questions covering five areas --
production, new orders, unfilled orders, exports and
inventories of finished goods. The index number represents
the percentage of respondents expecting increases minus the
percentage expecting decreases.
   The index for the coming three months showed a sizable
jump in expectations of increases in production and new
orders, with expectations improved only slightly for unfilled
orders and inventories. For the past three months the index
for production and new orders deteriorated to negative 28 and
negative 27 respectively, from negative 16 for each last
month. For the same period the index of inventories of
finished goods and unfilled orders fell less sharply.
   Grant Thornton's survey of 250 executives of manufacturing
companies with annual sales of $10 million to $500 million
found that many expected to keep RD investments at 3% of
sales. Only 9% said they would invest 10% or more in RD, and
21% said they would invest nothing this year.
   "While the percentage of manufacturing companies that
think profits will decline has dropped considerably since
last spring, from 29% to 12%, few are ready to make a
substantially greater commitment to the kind of research and
development activities that could enhance their longterm
prospects for growth," said Michael N. Cantwell, Grant
Thornton's national director for manufacturing and partner in
charge of the study. He added that the results suggest a
cautious view of growth prospects.