International:
   World Wire
   ----
   Compiled by Richard L. Holman
Bonn's Treuhandanstalt, the agency privatizing eastern
German enterprises, has begun seriously courting U.S.
investors. But the few American companies that have been won
over said the Germans have a tough sell.
   The Treuhand has sold about half the 10,500 eastern German
state-run operations for a total of $8 billion. Potential
U.S. buyers are wary because of the recession at home, Bonn's
mandate to secure job guarantees, and a perception that
western Germans, accounting for 95% of eastern investments,
have already bought the best companies.
   The agency, saying it still has gems to offer, wants to
increase foreign investment in eastern Germany to at least
15%, about equal to that in western Germany. It said that if
equal bids emerged, the foreign rival would win. Its New York
office is targeting as U.S. buyers small and medium-sized
companies with annual revenues of up to $50 million.
   The Treuhand, which is supplying chambers of commerce with
computerized offering data, said it was holding talks with 10
to 15 American firms.
                                                                                                       

   RECORD CHINA BOND SALES SEEN
                                                                                                       

   China expects to sell a record 30 billion yuan ($5.49
billion) in bonds on the domestic market this year, up 50%
from last year. The issue, to raise cash to repay maturing
government securities, may carry an interest rate of one
point above the official bank savings rate. Also, corporate
bonds totaling about 50 billion yuan are expected to be sold
this year; a year-earlier figure wasn't supplied.
                                                                                                       

   JAPAN'S FINANCIAL LIBERALIZATION
                                                                                                       

   Japan's Finance Ministry drafted a bill to let banks and
securities companies step into each other's field through
subsidiaries. The measure sets a framework for liberalizing
the financial industry by lowering legal barriers on separate
operations. The cabinet will vote this week on the bill, for
introduction in the Diet, or parliament. The measure could
take effect April 1, 1993. The draft involves amending 16
laws, principally one that would allow banks and securities
firms to own more than 50% of each other. Banks' securities
businesses could do underwriting but not brokerage
activities.
                                                                                                       

   MIGRANTS FROM EAST EXPECTED
                                                                                                       

   About 500,000 Eastern Europeans could pour into the West
every year, according to estimates by social scientists at a
migration conference in Vienna. Speakers at the meeting said
controlled migration, such as Turkish guest workers in
Germany in the 1970s, could provide short-term economic
benefits by filling gaps in a country's work force. But in
the long term, mass migration could deprive struggling
Eastern European economies of younger and better-educated
workers and overburden job markets in the West.
                                                                                                       

   JORDAN SETS BANK DEBT PACT
                                                                                                       

   Jordan agreed to reschedule part of its bank debt over 20
years. The agreement in principle with the London Club of
commercial bank creditors requires definitive pacts with the
banks. The debt involves $500 million in arrears and other
obligations. The pact follows Amman's accord last week with
the Paris Club of government creditors to reschedule $900
million in debt. Of Jordan's $7.2 billion foreign debt total,
it owes $5 billion to Paris Club members and $1.5 billion to
banks.
                                                                                                       

   UNIONS STRIKE IN LEBANON
                                                                                                       

   A strike to protest inflation paralyzed most of Lebanon's
private and public sectors Friday, as the government
struggled to arrest a weeklong economic crisis that saw
soaring prices of foods and supplies such as gasoline. The
one-day walkout was called by the General Federation of Labor
Unions, which urged Beirut to enforce a price-control system.
The cabinet formed a committee to set and monitor prices, and
ordered police enforcement. The sudden inflation followed a
sharp decline in the currency's value. Lebanon imports about
85% of its basic needs.
                                                                                                       

   JAPANESE POLL ON U.S. CONTENT
                                                                                                       

   Of the Japanese-owned factories in the U.S., 62.1% in a
September survey said their products had more than 70% local
content. That's up from 57.3% who responded a year earlier.
   The poll of 931 manufacturing operations by the Japan
External Trade Organization found that 24.3% of the factories
reported 100% local content, while 37.8% reported a ratio
exceeding 70%.
   Japan's method of computing local content differs from the
U.S. method and is a point of contention in Canadian-made
Japanese car exports to the U.S. Of transport machinery
builders polled, mostly auto plants, 47.3% said their U.S.
content ratio topped 70%, up from 34.6% of the respondents a
year earlier.
   The survey found 1,563 Japanese-owned factories operating
in the U.S. last September, up 130 from a year earlier.
   The trade group forecast short-term increases in the
local-content ratio for all these factories to 66.7% and for
transport machinery plants to 61%.
                                                                                                       

   POSTSCRIPTS . . .
                                                                                                       

   Japan's 74 publishers of 820 magazines agreed to the
imperial family's privacy request for a three-month news
blackout on prospective brides for Crown Prince Naruhito.
Newspapers, news agencies and broadcasters began observing
the voluntary gag Feb. 13. . . . Singapore removed all its
restrictions on trade with South Africa. . . . Mexico, with a
population of about 82 million, has just one doctor for every
600,000 people and only one hospital bed for every 1,000
residents.