Software Makers
   To Post Gains
   For the Quarter
   ---
   Analysts Predict Symantec
   Will Show Best Results
   Of Established Concerns
   ----
   By G. Pascal Zachary
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Novell Inc. (whose quarter ends Jan. 31) is expected to
show good results, but partly because of its acquisition last
year of Digital Research Inc. Borland International Inc.'s
quarter is expected to be unimpressive, but enthusiasm about
the company runs high in anticipation of forthcoming new
database and spreadsheet products.
   Aldus Corp. and Lotus Development Corp., once stars on the
strength of dominant publishing and spreadsheet products,
respectively, are expected to post respectable, though
uninspiring quarters.
   Microsoft continues to benefit from strong offerings in
applications and demand for revised versions of its
bellwether Windows and DOS programs, which control the basic
functions of IBM-compatibles. In stores, "they just dominate
shelf space," said David Readerman, an analyst at Lehman
Brothers.
   Mr. Readerman estimates that Microsoft will earn $154
million, or 81 cents a share, for the December quarter,
compared with net income of $113 million, or 61 cents a
share, in the year-ago period. He expects the company will
report revenue of $615 million, an increase of about 35% over
year-ago revenue of $461 million.
   Symantec, one of the software industry's growth stars on
the strength of its dominant position in utility programs, is
expected to post even sharper growth than Microsoft on a
percentage basis, though the company is less than one-tenth
the size of Microsoft.
   Scott Smith, an analyst at Donaldson Lufkin  Jenrette
Securities Corp., expects Symantec to report sales for its
fiscal third quarter ended Dec. 31 of $54 million, an
increase of 57% over $34.4 million in the year-ago quarter.
He estimates net income for the quarter at $6 million, or 25
cents, vs. $3.5 million, or 16 cents.
   Mr. Smith believes Symantec is entering a period full of
promise. The company, which has fueled much of its growth
with acquisitions, is expected to release seven new products
from March to May, Mr. Smith said.
   The other leading software companies are expected to post
mixed results. Rich Edwards, an analyst at Robertson Stephens
 Co., expects Novell to report for its first quarter ending
Jan. 31 earnings of $41.5 million, or 27 cents, on revenue of
$186 million, compared with year-ago earnings of $30.4
million, or 21 cents, on revenue of $134.6 million. The
results "reflect continued strong sales momentum" for
Novell's family of networking software programs, Mr. Edwards
said. Part of the gains also stem from Novell's purchase of
Digital Research, whose results aren't part of Novell's
year-ago figures.
   Mr. Edwards thinks Digital Research, which sells operating
software for personal computers that is compatible with
Microsoft's DOS, offers "a big potential upside for Novell
over the next year." While independent, Digital Research had
virtually no success in selling its DOS-replacement software
to major PC makers. But now that Novell owns the company,
International Business Machines Corp. and several other big
PC makers are considering buying Digital Research's product.
   Borland, whose stock has soared in recent months on
expectations of several strong new products to be released
later this year, is expected to post essentially flat results
for its third quarter ended Dec. 31. Tim McCollum, an analyst
at Dean Witter Reynolds Inc., expects Borland will earn $8
million, or 30 cents a share, compared with $6.8 million, or
28 cents a share, in the year-ago period. he expects revenue
for the quarter of $120 million, compared with $123 million
in the year-ago period, which was restated to include the
results of Ashton-Tate Inc. Borland purchased Ashton-Tate,
the biggest maker of database programs, last year.
   Mr. McCollum said Borland's third-quarter results "are not
terribly meaningful. The key thrust of the Borland story
starts in the first half of 1992," when the company is
expected to release new DOS and Windows versions of its two
database programs and its spreadsheet.
   Lotus, while still the dominant company in the lucrative
spreadsheet market, is expected to report for its fourth
quarter ended Dec. 31 an increase in revenue and profit, but
that's compared with a year-ago quarter in which the company
took a roughly $50 million charge in connection with its
acquisition of Samna Corp. Mr. Readerman said he expects
Lotus to earn $15.8 million, or 35 cents a share, on revenue
of $250 million, compared with net loss of $34 million, or 45
cents a share, on revenue of $184 million.
   Mr. Readerman expects Aldus, which makes graphics
programs, to report gains for its fourth quarter ended Dec.
31. He estimates the company will earn $8.3 million, or 53
cents, on revenue of $47 million, compared with net income of
$7.6 million, or 51 cents, on revenue of $40 million.
   Computer Associates, whose programs are generally targeted
at mainframe computers, is expected to post mixed results for
its fiscal third quarter ended Dec. 31. Mr. McCollum
estimates the company will earn $55.5 million, or 31 cents a
share, on revenue of $415 million. In the year-ago period,
the company earned $63.5 million, or 35 cents a share, on
revenue of $381 million.
   "This is a tough quarter to read," said Mr. McCollum. "It
is the most uncertain quarter of any of the {software}
companies I follow."