Castor Holdings
   Seeks Protection
   From Its Creditors
   ----
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Castor said many of its lenders are "overseas banks." The
only lender Castor identified in the court filing is Banque
Paribas (Suisse) S.A., a subsidiary of French bank Cie.
Financiere de Paribas. Officials at Paribas couldn't be
reached.
   A Montreal real estate executive said he understands that
several German concerns are investors in Castor. The company
said in the court filing that many of its shareholders are
significant lenders to Castor.
   The closely held company, which is based in Montreal,
asked Quebec Superior Court for protection under Canada's
Companies Creditors Arrangement Act, which is similar to
Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. Castor asked the
court for protection from creditors for 120 days so that it
can develop and implement a reorganization plan for "an
extremely complex financial situation."
   Castor officials in Montreal didn't return repeated
telephone calls. Mr. Stolzenberg said in the court filing
that he is chairman and president of Castor and lives in
London. Mr. Stolzenberg couldn't be reached.
   A Montreal businessman who knows him said Mr. Stolzenberg
"has investments all over the place" but is very tight-lipped
about his business activities. The businessman said he
believes Mr. Stolzenberg is also active in the real estate
business in the United Kingdom. In Canada, Mr. Stolzenberg
owns about 26% and is a director of Perkins Papers Ltd., a
Montreal paper concern.
   In the court filing, Castor said that its business is
focused on lending on a short- and medium-term basis to
owners and developers of commercial real estate in large
urban centers in Canada and the U.S.
   Castor said in the filing that it has C$101 million of
bonds and debentures outstanding; owes unsecured lenders
about C$491 million; owes secured lenders about C$284
million; owes trade creditors about C$500,000, and is
contingently indebted for C$500 million by way of guarantees
for loans made by its subsidiaries.
   Castor said that it has paid-in capital of over C$125
million and holds mortgages and other assets valued at more
than C$832 million.
   Castor blamed its problems on the world-wide drop in value
of real estate assets. Castor said it became insolvent
because of the inability of its borrowers to service their
debt, and the unwillingness of lenders to Castor to renew
loans as they become due.