Medicine:
   Astra Faces Fight Over Cost of AIDS Drug
   ----
   By Michael Waldholz
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The battle, simmering for months, is expected to boil over
soon, especially after this week's New England Journal of
Medicine publishes a major study suggesting that patients on
Foscavir lived longer than those taking a competing product.
If true, thousands of patients may rush to use the Astra
drug, draining funds from strapped health budgets.
   Foscavir treats cytomegalovirus (CMV) retinitis, a
blinding viral infection that afflicts about 30% of people
with AIDS. Astra's U.S. subsidiary, Astra Pharmaceutical
Products Inc. in Westborough, Mass., is selling a day's worth
of the drug for $58, making it the most expensive approved
treatment for AIDS.
   The controversy over Foscavir goes to the heart of two
prickly and unresolved issues surrounding AIDS research: Can
drug makers charge enough to pay for their research and can
patients, for the first time, dictate pharmaceutical prices?
   Foscavir's price "is outrageous and indefensible," says
Peter Staley, head of Treatment Activist Group, New York.
"I'm very aware that companies need profits as an incentive
to do research. But if we let one company charge this much,
others will want to do the same. The price won't stand."
   Mr. Staley says his group's members are taking lessons in
civil disobedience from Greenpeace, the environmental group.
"Something is in the works," he adds obliquely.
   While most pharmaceutical companies don't discuss how much
it costs to develop a drug, Astra says the high price of
Foscavir is needed to recover $100 million in research and
development costs. But many people familiar with drug
research are skeptical of the figure. Despite repeated
requests from activists and recent inquiries from Congress,
Astra has declined to document its expenses or undergo an
independent audit.
   Data gleaned from researchers and several federal agencies
now suggest that Astra's claims may be exaggerated. Total
spending for all tests of the drug in the U.S. since 1987
probably add up to less than $15 million, at least two-thirds
of which came from the federal government.
   In fact, the U.S. testing of the drug was initiated by two
American doctors, not by Astra, which was marketing the drug
only for limited use in Europe. Food and Drug Administration
officials say the agency's unusually quick approval of
Foscavir was based largely on the results of just two
clinical trials, both designed by the federal government and
involving only 88 patients. The combined federal tab for
those trials was less than $1 million, while Astra
contributed Foscavir and paid for statistical analyses, a
cost researchers estimate at an additional $1 million.
   Astra says those figures are misleading because they don't
include research costs dating back to the 1970s, when the
drug was discovered in Sweden and tested as a herpes
treatment. It also fails to account for manufacturing and
distribution costs, and bills for ongoing tests to expand the
drug's uses. Stefan Solvell, senior vice president for
finance and administration at Astra's U.S. unit, says his
company won't publicly document these costs because "drug
makers can't tell competitors what it costs to do research."
   Nonetheless, he says the company has priced Foscavir on
the assumption that no more than 5,000 patients a year will
use the drug. Because CMV retinitis hits when AIDS is at a
deadly stage, many Foscavir users will live an average of
only six months to a year, meaning Astra's annual revenue
would be about $50 million. AIDS activists say usage could be
three or four times that amount.
   Says Mr. Solvell: "We have told everyone that we are
willing to lower the price if after six months it turns out
that many more patients are using it."
   One AIDS researcher says Astra is "getting a bad rap."
Fred A. Ussery, an eye doctor in Houston who conducted some
of the earliest tests of Foscavir, estimates that only
one-third or fewer of the 12,000 AIDS patients with CMV will
use it. "I'll bet the company barely turns a profit on the
drug," Dr. Ussery says.
   Dr. Ussery first puts his CMV patients on a less expensive
drug called ganciclovir, sold under the brand name Cytovene
by Syntex Corp. in Palo Alto, Calif. Both drugs must be taken
intravenously. But Foscavir requires dosing three times a
day, while ganciclovir, approved two years ago, is taken once
daily. In addition, Foscavir's side effects can be more
bothersome than ganciclovir's. Yet doctors say both drugs are
needed because patients often develop resistance to them.
   Use of Foscavir could surge with the publication of a
federally run study that was abruptly halted in September.
The study, to be printed in the New England Journal of
Medicine this week, showed both drugs were equally effective
on CMV retinitis. But researchers were stunned when an
interim review found patients on Foscavir were living an
average of 12 months from when they began taking the drug,
compared with eight months for those on ganciclovir.
   The finding is controversial. Thomas Merigan, an AIDS
researcher at Stanford University, says the longevity may be
due to factors other than Foscavir's effectiveness. Sandra
Kweder, an FDA official, says the agency is resisting Astra's
requests that it be allowed to include the difference in
materials for marketing the drug to doctors.
   "If we can't {tell doctors} that Foscavir is better, there
is no way we will get the kind of expanded use we need to
lower the price," Astra's Mr. Solvell says.
   Indeed, some activists and AIDS researchers say Astra's
claim that it spent heavily to develop Foscavir is ironic
since it didn't even fund the comparative study that could
lead to much wider use of the drug. The National Eye
Institute says it paid more than 90% of the study's $10
million cost, with Astra, Syntex and private health insurers
paying the rest.
   And some activists say that whether Astra actually
incurred costs of $100 million is beside the point. "I refuse
to debate the figures with Astra," says Martin Delaney,
director of Project Inform, San Francisco. "We believe $58 a
day for a drug needed to keep some people from going blind is
unconscionably high."
   Though some patients have the cost covered by private
insurance, state Medicaid and other programs will have to pay
for the rest, draining funds from other treatment programs,
Mr. Delaney and other note. The activists are pressing Astra
to cap yearly outlays for Foscavir at $10,000 a patient.
   Activists say they are convinced Astra will back down.
They maintain that most U.S. companies have learned in recent
years that pricing AIDS drugs high will set off a firestorm
of complaints, and that Astra merely is learning that lesson.
   But Dr. Ussery says he and other researchers worry about
the consequences. "Drugs must be affordable, but companies
need to make profits," he says. "I don't know how this will
get resolved."