Telecommunications:
   Caller ID Service
   Is Ruled Illegal
   In Pennsylvania
   ----
   By Milo Geyelin and Mary Lu Carnevale
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
Without deciding all the issues before it, the state high
court upheld a May 1990 state appeals court ruling that the
service violates Pennsylvania's wiretap law banning use of
so-called trap-and-trace devices, which enable people to
either record calls or trace the identity of their callers.
Pennsylvania's law permits use of such devices only if both
parties to a conversation consent.
   The state high court did not address the issue of whether
Caller ID violates fundamental privacy rights. The lower
court was divided on that issue, ruling 3-2 that it did. The
state supreme court also left open whether Caller ID would be
legal if the phone company allowed callers to block the
transmission of their phone numbers. "That issue is not
before us," the court ruled.
   A spokesman for Bell of Pennsylvania, a unit of Bell
Atlantic Corp., Philadelphia, took heart in that aspect of
the decision saying it apparently "clears the way for Caller
ID to be offered in Pennsylvania." The company said it
believes it will be able to satisfy the court's concern about
consent by allowing callers to block transmission of their
phone numbers.
   But opponents of Caller ID in Pennsylvania said the
decision is a significant setback for the industry. Though it
is binding only in Pennsylvania, the decision will be a
factor in every other state where Caller ID faces challenges
from consumer and other interest groups over privacy, said
Scott Burris, an assistant law professor at Temple University
in Philadelphia who helped argue the case on behalf of the
American Civil Liberties Union.
   "This should be a strong message around the country that
Caller ID should only be allowed when the privacy interest of
all parties have been protected," he said.
   Regulators in at least 20 states and the District of
Columbia have approved caller ID, and that number is expected
to increase. But most of those states have required blocking
provisions either on a free per-call basis or on a routine
basis on individual customers' telephone lines. Earlier this
month, for example, New York regulators allowed Nynex Corp.'s
New York Telephone Co. to offer Caller ID as long as
customers have a choice of free per-call or per-line
blocking.
   Bell Atlantic has been extremely aggressive in introducing
the service, offering it first in 1987 in New Jersey. The
company has promoted Caller ID as a guard against harassing
or obscene calls, and it claims that most Caller ID
subscribers have unlisted numbers and buy the service to
further protect their privacy.
   But consumer advocates contend that Caller ID violates
callers' expectations that their numbers will remain private.
Moreover, critics contend that the service could increase the
use and sale of personal data gathered for telemarketing and
other sales calls. Incoming phone calls can be matched to
readily available mailing lists to obtain a caller's name and
address. Those lists can then be sold. Phone companies also
now have the technology to identify and deliver callers'
names in addition to their numbers. New software marketed to
small businesses can even call up a customer's file while his
incoming call is ringing.
   And despite requirements by regulators that phone
companies provide blocking mechanisms, leading equipment
makers are coming up with ways to block the blockers.
Opponents of Caller ID also are worried that the service will
threaten the effectiveness of hotlines, tip lines for law
enforcement agencies, shelters for battered women and other
services that depend on protecting a caller's
confidentiality.
   The issues in the Pennsylvania case are likely to be
raised repeatedly as phone companies continue marketing
Caller ID across the country. Yesterday's decision is
expected to carry weight because all states have some
anti-wiretap provision on their books, said Pennsylvania
Consumer Advocate Irwin A. Poposky, who first challenged a
state Public Utilities Commission decision to permit Caller
ID, even without the blocking service, in 1989.
   Most states ban trap-and-trace devices unless at least one
party to a conversation consents to its use, Mr. Poposky
said. Stricter requirements, such as Pennsylvania's, that
both parties consent are on the books in only about a half
dozen states, Mr. Poposky said.
   The Pennsylvania decision is expected to be closely read,
said Mr. Burris of Temple University, also because it is the
nation's first and because it left intact the lower-court
ruling banning Caller ID on broader privacy grounds.
   Bell of Pennsylvania had planned to offer Caller ID to
customers without the blocking mechanism in Philadelphia and
Harrisburg. Mr. Burris said yesterday that the ACLU is not
likely to drop its opposition to Caller ID unless consumers
are given free the option of blocking the service from their
phone lines, not just on a per-call basis.
   Mr. Poposky said he couldn't yet say what type of blocking
service would be acceptable.