Emerging Markets
   Will Be the Focus
   Of New `Boutique'
   ---
   Asset Management Company
   Can Tap the Expertise
   Of Its Three Partners
   ----
   By Michael Siconolfi
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
"We want to be the Magellan Fund of emerging markets,"
said Mr. Roth, who spent more than a decade at Merrill Lynch
 Co. before the World Bank. "We think international asset
management will be the fastest-growing sector of the business
in the '90s."
   The venture is the latest wrinkle in a growing trend in
recent years for Wall Street's stars to go it alone by
starting their own firms. Behind the boutique boom is a
belief that such small shops should have an easier time
prospering than big Wall Street houses because of low
overhead and a narrow investment focus and expertise.
   But many Wall Street boutiques still have had a tough time
thriving amid slumps in the securities business. Early last
year, for instance, a promising boutique run by former Lehman
Brothers executives folded in the face of rough
investment-banking seas.
   The new firm, to be called Emerging Markets Corp. and
based in Washington, D.C., is the first such venture to set
its investing targets squarely on the world's developing
nations. The focus is Asia, Eastern Europe, Russia and Latin
America.
   The markets of developing countries are particularly
volatile. But the firm aims to invest in nations with strong
programs of economic reform and relatively stable
governments; prospects include Indonesia, Mexico, Venezuela,
Argentina and Hungary. The firm is planning on a twopronged
approach of direct investment and portfolio management.
   The venture -- which hopes to raise as much as $500
million and start operating in April -- is banking on the
expertise of its three partners. Mr. Higgins left Salomon
early this year after 22 years at the big investment bank.
Among his duties there were heading investment banking and
mergers and acquisitions.
   Mr. Roth, who will leave the World Bank at the end of this
month after serving as its treasurer, will be the firm's
chief executive officer. At Merrill, he helped launch the
Mexico Fund, Korea Fund and India Fund. Mr. Qureshi, who will
be the firm's chairman, recently left the World Bank as its
operations chief. Before that, he was the World Bank's chief
financial officer and chief executive of the International
Finance Corp.
   "We don't view ourselves as wunderkinds -- we're not
flash-type guys," Mr. Roth said. "But this is a tremendous
area."