Economic Debate:
   Silly Season
   May Someday End
   ----
   By Robert L. Bartley
The Democrats, meanwhile, are intent on curing recession
by raising taxes on some people to cut taxes on other people.
Maybe we could debate the economic theory here, but first
we'd have to find it. The Democratic presidential candidates
are a cacophony, and the House bill is whatever grabbag of
special breaks and pet brainstorms Danny Rostenkowski finds
to buy up a majority. In the Senate, Lloyd Bentsen wants to
encourage investment, while making sure that people with
money to invest keep less of it.
   For discussing serious issues, of course, election years
are the worst of times and the best of times. And the
experience of the 1982 recession suggests that in economics
necessity is the mother of confusion. If the economy starts
to pick up, perhaps the seriousness of the economic debate
will follow, and the current phase will pass.
   ---
   Even in silly season, though, it's worth checking off a
few basic points. Start with the most basic of all: Why and
how would a tax cut stimulate the economy?
   Everyone between the ages of 30 and 65 learned the answer
in Econ 101. Remember hard: "the multiplier." To boost the
economy, the government runs a deficit, "injecting" money to
be "multiplied" into a bigger GNP (or, to follow the new
fashion, GDP). Trouble is, Econ 101 was wrong. In the 1970s,
we learned that boosting the deficit sometimes only causes
"stagflation." In the 1990s nearly everyone would laugh at
the once-standard Keynesian notion that we can solve our
economic problems with a still bigger deficit.
   In the 1980s, tax policy was based on a different answer
to the basic question -- that the key lies in incentives. If
a tax cut increases the incentive to work, invest and
innovate, greater efforts by workers, investors and
entrepreneurs will make the economy grow faster. This answer
(pre-Keynesian, supply-side or new classical) has more
recently passed out of political fashion, but are you better
off today than you were four years ago?
   Incentives depend, further, on the marginal rate of tax,
that is, the rate you'll pay if you earn an extra dollar. You
can't improve incentives with a tax cut that doesn't change
the marginal rate, for example, an extra $300 deduction for
dependents. This kind of cut will boost demand through the
multiplier, you could argue -- if you accept a larger
deficit. But if a tax bill is "revenue neutral" and lacks new
incentives, by what conceivable theory could it stimulate
growth? And if non-marginal goodies for some taxpayers are
kept "revenue neutral" through increases in marginal rates
for other taxpayers, the effect will be a drag on the
economy.
   ---
   So new deductions and the like do not serve growth but
other purposes. Like stroking the "middle class," whatever
that is. While we hear a lot about the "middle class" or "the
rich," no one has stopped to define these terms. The latest
Statistical Abstract tells us that in 1989 the top 5% of all
families started at an income of $98,964 and the top 20% at
an income of $59,551. Under some current schemes, in short, a
suburban couple with two kids, a mortgage and two jobs may be
bait for higher taxes in the name of helping the "middle
class." What the middle 90% of the income distribution really
wants, of course, is not an extra $300 in tax deductions, but
jobs.
   This brings us back to the issue of how to boost growth,
and to round out the possible theories, we'll have to include
tax-code industrial policy. That is, if you learn by divine
revelation that the secret key to growth is guava juice, you
can legislate tax incentives for guava farming. While the
real issue usually is which Congressman has guava
contributors, tax-code planning is wise or foolish depending
on the growth recipe underlying it.
   Sen. Bentsen's objective of boosting savings and
investment, for example, is certainly a plausible formula for
healthier long-term growth. By now we've pretty much
exhausted the option of putting more wives to work outside
the home, and will have to get our economic boost from
increasing everyone's productivity with newer and better
tools. Similarly, the economy's recent problem has been an
entrepreneurial gap; it's not getting the rush of
entrepreneurial ventures that created 18 million jobs in the
1980s despite layoffs by the Fortune 500. So I myself would
like to see incentives that encourage entrepreneurs, like a
lower capital-gains tax.
   Neither of these ideas, however, can be squared with using
the tax code to redistribute income. People who have capital
gains and people with money to invest are both likely to be
in the top 5% or top 20%. There is no way to provide bigger
incentives for what they do and at the same time make them
pay a higher tax rate. When the political culture starts to
face this reality, the time for serious debate will arrive,
and economics will again be as interesting an issue as breast
implants.
   ---
   Mr. Bartley is editor of the Journal.