Pan Am Sues Delta
   Over Funding Halt;
   $2.5 Billion Sought
   ----
   By Brett Pulley
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The lawsuit, filed in federal bankruptcy court in New York
on behalf of Pan Am, is the second such action taken against
Delta. Pan Am's unsecured creditors, who have administrative
claims of about $2 billion against Pan Am, earlier filed suit
against Delta, seeking not less than $2.5 billion in damages.
Both suits also seek to end Delta's priority claim of $115
million for money it lent to Pan Am.
   Despite the huge damage sums that the suits demand, they
might amount to little more than a last-ditch effort from Pan
Am and its creditors. One obvious concern is Pan Am's ability
to pay legal fees should an extended litigation ensue.
   "This stuff happens all of the time, not just in the
airlines," said Steffanie Lewis, a lawyer with the
International Business Law Firm in Washington. "There's
always the potential for contract disputes."
   But this case was extraordinary, given that Delta's
involvement in the reorganization plan had garnered a lot of
attention. "I'm not surprised that {the lawsuits} took
place," said Nicholas J. Radell, an aviation consultant at
Mercer Management Consulting Inc. "You had 9,000 people's
jobs at stake and a lot of publicity about how Pan Am would
be saved."
   In a statement, Atlanta-based Delta said the lawsuit "is
without merit. Delta met or exceeded all of its obligations
to Pan Am and advanced to Pan Am on a timely basis every
penny that Delta was required to provide."
   Mr. McHugh, a longtime Pan Am employee who earlier this
month was named to oversee the liquidation of the company,
said that once Delta completed the purchase of Pan Am's
shuttle and Atlantic routes last fall, it lost interest in
funding Pan Am's reorganization, which was a part of the
original sale agreement.
   Pan Am, once a global aviation leader with a landmark
office building on Park Avenue in New York, now operates out
of offices in Rockleigh, N.J. According to Mr. McHugh, the
airline still has about 650 employees overseeing its
liquidation.