Pricing Health Care:
   How Employers Boost Health Costs
   ----
   By Alain C. Enthoven
The traditional fee-for-service, free-choice system relies
only on government and patients to control quality. But
government is incapable of picking good doctors and removing
bad ones. And individual patients don't have the information
or the expertise to judge quality of care. They need
competent, private-sector purchasing agents armed with data
on the experience of many patients to select doctors and
hospitals for them. This is what "managed care" is all about,
the most commonplace being health maintenance organizations
(HMOs) and preferred provider organizations (PPOs).
   Most large employers now offer their employees the choice
of joining one or more HMOs and/or PPOs, as well as
traditional fee-for-service coverage. It is well documented
that some HMOs can provide high-quality care for
substantially less cost than traditional fee-for-service. But
the way most employers structure the choice deprives the
employee who selects the low-priced alternative of all or
most of the savings. The employee has no incentive to choose
the low-priced plan. This, in turn, deprives the HMO of the
incentive to be the low-priced plan. These employer policies
amount to a large subsidy to the wasteful traditional
fee-for-service system and a bias against cost-effective
HMOs.
   A few examples will illustrate this point.
   -- In 1989 a Detroit auto company offered workers a choice
between traditional fee-for-service Blue Cross/Blue Shield
costing $458 a month and the Health Alliance Plan HMO,
costing $357. The deal between company and union was that the
company would pay the whole premium whichever plan the
employee chose. In other words, Health Alliance Plan got no
reward for being the low-cost plan.
   -- In the Twin Cities, where several HMOs have competed
since the early 1970s, major employers have followed the same
inflationary policy. They pay the full price of anything up
to the price of fee-for-service. Not surprisingly, the HMOs
have raised their prices to levels close to those of
fee-for-service. The employers complain about this practice
and call it "shadow pricing."
   -- The state of New York pays 90% of the premium of
whichever plan a state employee chooses. In the case of a
single employee, if he chooses traditional Blue Cross/Blue
Shield at $150 a month, the state contributes $135. If he
chooses Health Insurance Plan (HIP), an HMO, at $100 a month,
the state contributes $90. The state pockets the $45
difference between the two premiums.
   -- In 1990, Citibank's fee-for-service coverage cost $164
a month. Citibank contributed $139 and the employee paid $25.
Citibank employees also had the option of choosing HIP.
Citibank paid all of HIP's $100 monthly premium and pocketed
the $39 a month difference.
   -- In California in 1990-91 state employees had a choice
of several plans, including PERS Care, a fee-for-service plan
administered by Blue Shield, at a cost of $204 a month, and
Kaiser Permanente of Northern California, the state's largest
HMO, with a cost of $128 a month. By law, the state paid the
premium up to a fixed-dollar amount of $157. (This was equal
to the average of the premiums of the four largest
participating health plans.) For every employee who chose the
$128 Kaiser premium, then, the state pocketed $29 per month.
   This is a formula for an unending inflationary spiral.
With employer behavior like that, we don't need another
explanation for health-care inflation. Put another way, in
each of the cases I've outlined, the more efficient HMO was
deprived of any reward in the marketplace for holding its
premiums down.
   Why do employers persist in such inflationary policies?
The answer is partly historical. Back in the 1950s and '60s,
when health-care costs were much lower and HMOs were rare,
employers became used to the idea that they would pay the
full premium of fee-for-service plans. These decisions were
reinforced by unions, which demanded "employer-pay-all"
health plans as a tradeoff for smaller wage increases, and by
the Internal Revenue Code, which doesn't tax employees on the
health-care benefits they receive.
   What is the alternative? The rational economic answer is
informed, cost-conscious consumer choice. Let the employer
select a menu of high-quality managed care plans and offer
employees a fixed-dollar amount that does not exceed the
price of the lowest-priced plan. Employees who choose plans
with premiums higher than that of the lowest-priced plan
would pay the difference themselves, preferably with
after-tax dollars. This would give employees an incentive to
choose the lowest-priced plan. In turn, it would give each
managed care plan the incentive to be the lowest-priced plan
in a bid to attract more customers.
   Why don't employers adopt this apparently rational policy?
The answer is illustrated by what is happening at Stanford,
where I work, and in Sacramento.
   At Stanford, we offer employees a choice among three HMOs
and a preferred provider insurance plan. (Traditional
free-choice, fee-for-service priced itself out of our market
several years ago.) Through 1991, for purchasers of
individual coverage, we had an employer-contribution formula
that amounted to "employer pay all," whatever plan the
employee chose (with a few exceptions). (Purchasers of
dependent coverage have always made cost-conscious choices.)
In November, in response to the need for cost reductions, the
university announced that in 1992, purchasers of individual
coverage would have to contribute at least $25 per month, no
matter what plan they chose. More significant, their monthly
out-of-pocket contribution would be even higher if they chose
a plan that costs more than the least expensive. The change
was very unpopular with many employees.
   State employees are facing a similar situation. Last
summer, as a result of the state's budget crisis, the law
mandating the state's employer contributions was repealed,
and the state froze the dollar amounts it would contribute in
1991-92 at the 1990-91 level. This greatly increased employee
cost-consciousness. It also led some health plans to cut
their prices (yes, the market works).
   The actions of Stanford and the state of California alone
aren't enough to keep down the cost of health care in the
long run. If Stanford and the state hang tough, but other
employers do not follow suit, the health-care system will
continue to be driven by the inflationary incentives in the
"employer pay all" policies. For this system to work, a
critical mass of employers must make the suppliers compete on
price.
   How can this be achieved?
   -- A limit on the tax-free employer contributions to
health benefits would be helpful. That won't be feasible
politically until there is widespread understanding of the
need for cost-conscious choice.
   -- Union leaders must understand and educate their members
that what the employer pays in health care is money that
cannot be paid in wages or jobs. Blank checks to the health
services industry are not a good use of employees' money. It
would make more sense for employers and employees to agree
that the employer will pay the price of the low-priced plan;
if more money is available, give it to the employees in wages
and let them decide whether they want to spend it on a more
costly health-care plan.
   -- Employers need to understand that as more employers
convert to cost-conscious choice, HMOs will take over more of
the market. This will leave doctors and hospital beds in the
traditional fee-for-service sector in even greater
oversupply, and costs in that sector will continue to rise.
The higher the costs, the more painful will be the eventual
adjustment when employees have to face economic reality. That
is, when the employer subsidies to fee-for-service care
eventually end, employees will face large out-of-pocket
premium costs. It would be better to make the switch now,
when the cost of the change is not so great. The last
passengers to abandon the sinking ship of fee-for-service
care will have a long way to jump.
   ---
   Mr. Enthoven, a professor of management at Stanford, is
chairman of the university's Committee on Faculty/Staff
Benefits and of California's Health Benefits Advisory Council
for the Public Employees' Retirement System.