REVIEW  OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   Just Do It
Former California Governor Jerry Brown also supports the
item veto. Paul Tsongas calls it "an effective way of
reducing waste in government." Republican Pat Buchanan as
usual goes even further, saying, "I won't beg for a line-item
veto. I will use the line-item veto the President already
possesses." The National Taxpayers Union has found that the
only presidential candidates who don't support the item veto
are the two denizens of Congress, Senators Bob Kerrey and Tom
Harkin. Could this be . . . a coincidence?
   But the two Senators have a chance to make amends this
week, when Senators John McCain of Arizona and Dan Coats of
Indiana offer their annual item-veto amendment. They have 28
other co-sponsors, including Democrats Jim Exon of Nebraska
and David Boren of Oklahoma.
   More precisely, the Coats-McCain proposal would revive a
President's power to "rescind," or delete, egregious spending
items. That constitutional power has been dormant since 1974,
when Congress steamrollered a President weakened by Watergate
to eliminate the long-established power to impound funds. A
President can still send up a package of pork for rescission,
but the money is spent unless Congress votes not to; of
course it never does. The Coats-McCain amendment would make
the rescission itself automatic; Congress would have to
override if it still wanted the most outrageous pork.
   The threat this poses to logrolling-as-usual can be seen
in the fanatic opposition it inspires in Democrat Robert Byrd
and Republican Mark Hatfield. They are the two ranking
Members of the Appropriations Committee, a.k.a. Pig Heaven.
Mr. Byrd has lately devoted his energy to trying to move much
of the U.S. government out of Washington to his state of West
Virginia.
   Mr. Byrd will argue that every Senator likes pork, which
is exactly why the item veto is needed. Like any addict,
Senators need to be stopped before they spend again. An item
veto puts the President back into the spending game in a way
that restores accountability. It's true that an item veto
couldn't touch entitlements, but it at least would give a
President more bargaining power with the Senate's Big Byrds.
   President Bush agrees with scholars who say the
Constitution already gives him the power to use an item veto,
and claims to be looking for the right item to strike. If he
is serious, Mr. Bush has a great opportunity now. If he
asserts his item-veto power, Congress will be forced to
defend its pork in public. The matter would go to the courts,
which might side with Congress, but that would leave matters
no worse than they are now. Moreover, Mr. Bush would at least
have focused public attention on the main problem,
congressional spending.
   Mr. Bush's tax-pledge reversal has left him with a
credibility problem; the public won't believe his promises
unless he shows he's also willing to act. Just do it, Mr.
President.