Dispute Over
   Dividends Goes
   To High Court
   ---
   Special Master Urges End
   To New York Keeping
   Unclaimed Distributions
   ----
   By Paul M. Barrett
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Lawyers representing some of the states opposing New York
estimate that the total amount in dispute could be as high as
$800 million. The problem of money not being claimed or
distributed arises for a number of reasons, such as the owner
of the securities having died or moved without leaving a
forwarding address. New York has been collecting millions of
dollars annually for an undetermined number of years. But the
state "appears to have . . . spent almost all of the funds"
it gathered, according to the special master's report.
   The potential disgorgement of these funds "will impose
some hardship on New York," the report added. New York
brokerage houses are still holding some of the money,
although no one knows the exact total amount, according to
lawyers in the case. A spokesman for New York Attorney
General Robert Abrams called the special master's conclusions
"flawed" and said the state will contest them before the
Supreme Court.
   New York State already has an $875 million budget deficit
in the current fiscal year that could widen by March 31, the
end of the year. Further, state officials have estimated the
deficit for the following fiscal year could reach $3.5
billion. The state's annual budget is about $53 billion.
   The Supreme Court isn't obliged to follow the
recommendation of the special master. The justices will
review his findings, contained in a 79-page report completed
Tuesday, and then are expected to hear further arguments from
New York and the other states. It isn't known when the high
court will issue a final decision in the case.
   The highly unusual dispute began when Delaware sued New
York in 1988, claiming possession of a large share of the
distributions. The suit was filed directly with the Supreme
Court, a procedure available for disputes among states. The
high court sometimes appoints special masters to make
recommendations in such lawsuits because the justices don't
have a lower-court record to review.
   Delaware contended that it deserved a large share of the
unclaimed stock and bond distributions because the major
brokerage firms that had marketed the securities are
incorporated in Delaware. The state is known for its flexible
incorporation laws; as a result, many large companies in all
industries are incorporated there.
   In many instances, the securities related to the disputed
distributions are being held by the brokerage firms.
   After Delaware launched the legal action, the other states
and the District of Columbia intervened as plaintiffs, also
seeking shares of the disputed money.
   In his recommendation, Mr. Jackson, the special master,
said unclaimed money should go to the state where the
headquarters of the company that issued the securities is
located. Thus, Michigan would be entitled to unclaimed
dividends on shares of Detroit-based General Motors Corp.
   Mr. Jackson, dean of the University of Virginia School of
Law, rejected New York's contention that the money is owed to
New York-based brokerage houses and may be claimed by New
York if the owners of the securities can't be located. He
also rejected Delaware's claim to the distributions. Mr.
Jackson said that the New York-based brokerage firms
incorporated in Delaware were merely intermediaries between
the corporate issuers of the securities and the actual
owners.
   In the case of municipal bonds, Mr. Jackson said that the
state in which the municipality is located deserves to
collect unclaimed distributions.