Cut Down:
   Timber Town Is Bitter
   Over Efforts to Save
   The Rare Spotted Owl
   ---
   As Logging Jobs Disappear,
   Economy of Forks, Wash.,
   Sinks, and So Do Its Spirits
   ---
   Contempt for `Tree Huggers'
   ----
   By Charles McCoy
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
And what is to be made of this flier, fluttering from the
gnarled bark of a towering old spruce tree off a back road
near the Hoh River, a few miles south of Forks? "White
loggers, we are with you," it proclaims. It's from the White
Aryan Resistance, the violence-prone white-supremacists.
   No one hereabouts admits to knowing exactly who posted
these signs. But the message behind both cuts through like a
chain saw: Here in the self-proclaimed Logging Capital of the
World, things are getting desperate.
   The little spotted owl has been casting a rather large
shadow over Forks and other timber towns throughout the
Northwest for a long time. Environmentalists, wielding the
Endangered Species Act and other environmental laws, have
convinced courts and the federal government to limit logging
on millions of acres of land to help save the reclusive
birds, which nest in old trees. Now the full effect of those
logging curbs are beginning to take hold, along with the hard
realization that timber jobs lost now are gone for good.
Increasingly, logging towns seem headed the way of textile
towns, mining towns, steel towns -- other places that clung
too long to aging industries and withered as those industries
shut down.
   But there is a difference here, one that spawns a bitter
blend of anger, frustration and despair. Backwater towns of
the past were mostly done in by sweeping economic changes,
things like automation, foreign competition and shifting
global markets. Timber is under pressure from some of those
forces, too: Many people argue that a number of factors, from
recession to the dwindling number of large trees, doom the
loggers of towns like Forks by the end of the century anyway.
   Even so, the decline of the logging towns has been greatly
accelerated by distant political decisions and courtroom
rulings that seem to place more value on the preservation of
a natural resource -- in this case, tall trees that are home
to owls rarely seen even by lifelong residents of the woods
-- than on the jobs of thousands of rural workers.
   Last year, Forks-area loggers cut fully a third less
timber than just a year earlier -- the lowest level in 10
years -- and things won't be getting better. The reason?
"Owls," says Susan Trettevik of the state's Department of
Natural Resources.
   The calculus of owls vs. jobs mystifies and infuriates the
people of Forks. But it will come increasingly into play as
the growing push to save wildlife continues to crash up
against the need for growth and jobs. Already, Bush
administration policy makers, led by Interior Secretary
Manuel Lujan, are calling for revisions of the Endangered
Species Act, citing Forks and other timber towns' travails as
evidence that conservation is exacting too high a price on
commerce. With the act up for reauthorization this year, and
with fights over salmon, smelt, gnatcatchers and dozens of
other troubled species looming, the nation is struggling to
decide how far to go to save plants and animals, and at what
cost to human beings.
   Forks, a soggy little place of 2,500 people where it rains
12 feet a year, is living that struggle now. Unemployment is
20% and counting -- up from about 10% in 1990 and 7% in 1989.
Main Street is a forlorn strip dotted with bare storefronts,
such as that of Birdwell Ford, whose manager one morning last
summer put up a handwritten sign saying "Closed. Moved to
Port Angeles," a town 60 miles away. The sign still dangles
in the empty auto showroom, next to an earlier placard: "This
Business Supported By Timber Dollars."
   Crime is rising, spirits sagging. The authorities openly
worry that someone might blow up a ranger station or torch
Olympic National Park, a million-acre preserve of ancient
hemlock, spruce and fir forever off limits to the saw.
Someone already did try to burn down the park's headquarters.
And there was this: One day in June, Jeff King, a 31-year old
logger, former secretary of the Forks Timber Museum, a family
man with a wife and three kids, learned that he would
probably soon be laid off from his logging outfit. That
evening, at home in his living room, he pressed a hunting
rifle to his chest and shot himself.
   There were other stresses in Mr. King's life besides his
work, but friends believe losing his job pushed him over the
edge. "He couldn't face not being a logger, and he could see
logging coming to an end up here," says David Westerlund, a
friend who spoke to Mr. King 10 minutes before he died. Mr.
Westerlund is a logger himself. "Hell, we all know how he
feels -- felt. This whole town feels lost and angry."
   The wounds run so deep partly because of the history of
this town. Commercial logging began here in the 1860s, and it
shaped the town's character. Forks is isolated and
conservative, with a reputation for high spirits. It's a
patriotic place known throughout the state for its
rip-roaring All American Fourth of July parade. It has lushly
forested Olympic Mountain foothills -- and smoldering
clear-cuts that come right down to the main highway. It has
one stoplight and 10 churches and a lot of men with missing
fingers, tribute exacted by the woods of those who go there
to work. Once or twice a year, someone from Forks is killed
in a logging accident.
   All this has given the people of Forks a decidedly
different view of the old forests than many people have --
particularly environmentalists. "This whole area is just a
big old tree farm, is what it is," says Matt Anderson, a
former logger who now works as an electrician, stating the
common local view. "We cut down trees, they grow back. What's
the problem?"
   The environmentalists' view, of course, is different. It
is the view from a rutted dirt road in a heavily logged area
of 300-year-old forest near Hunger Mountain, a few miles out
of Forks. The area seems to have been bombed. Charred
clear-cuts the size of a dozen football fields stretch across
the flanks of mountains, everything gone but a few stumps,
which are burned along with other debris. Some still smolder,
like Ground Zero. Down the side of one mountain runs the scar
of a landslide hundreds of yards long, brought on by rains
after the trees were stripped. The slide has clogged Pistol
Creek, once a fine little trout stream, with mud and stumps.
Trout don't live there anymore.
   Elsewhere in this area, salmon spawning grounds have been
buried by logging debris, one reason many species of native
salmon have gone extinct, and many others are threatened.
Throughout the Olympic Peninsula, though there are still
millions of trees, about 95% of the old-growth spruce,
hemlock and fir are gone.
   As the owl loses the ancient trees that are its habitat
and as vital watercourses are ruined, it is humans that
eventually suffer, say conservationists. "On the practical
level, the damage this kind of intense logging does to these
watersheds is potentially quite ominous for people who use
them for water and food," says Kevin Rose, a Park Service
ranger and environmentalist. "On a different plane, there is
the moral question of how we can permit the complete and
needless eradication of trees that have stood for centuries,
and entire species of animals."
   Even some people in Forks admit that they cut too hard in
recent years. But the way they see it here, loggers are being
robbed of a cherished way of life and driven from their homes
by a gang of outsiders who just don't understand. These
passions pour forth wherever Forks people gather. "These damn
preservationists," roars Emmett Treicher, leaning into his
beer at a cafe. "These wimps want to clear us out of here so
they can come up two weeks a year on vacation and admire big
trees." Mr. Treicher lost his small logging company last year
and is trying to scrape by doing odd jobs and raising
buffalo. "We risk life and limb in those woods, and we get
painted as forest rapers and morons. . . . This isn't the way
it's supposed to work in the U.S.A."
   "That's right," chimes in Kenny Huston, a cowboy from
Montana who came here 10 years ago to drive logging trucks
and who's spent most of the past six months out of work. "It
tears at you, not to be able to do what you've want to do to
earn a living." Mr. Huston laments that many outsiders come
here and aren't able to see the forest for the stumps. "I've
seen tourists literally pulled over by the side of the road
taking pictures of clear-cuts," he snorts. "You'd think
they'd take a picture of all the beautiful trees still
standing. But they've never seen a clear-cut, and all those
stumps look pretty damn bad. They go home and tell all their
friends how awful we are for cutting down trees."
   With fewer trees and fewer paychecks being cut in Forks,
local businesses are wilting. Receipts from city sales and
property taxes are way off. In addition to the car
dealership, the pet store, the main clothing retailer, the
movie theater and half a dozen other businesses have closed
in recent months. In the window of Leffler's, the defunct
clothing store, hangs a drawing by Johnny Dahlgren, age 7,
son of a logger. "An owl needs 2,000 acres to live," reads
the caption. "Why can't I have room to live?"
   Social problems are erupting too. Barbara O'Hara, who runs
the Forks Abuse Center, says domestic violence complaints in
the past year were up more than 100% -- running at a
startling 60 a month. "You take away a logger's job, tell him
he can't work, it strips him of his dignity and his manhood,"
she figures. "Some men lash out at their wives as a form of
reasserting some power over their own lives."
   One victim tells her story. Her husband, a logger for 15
years, had been out of work for much of the previous year
when a gyppo outfit (logging lingo for a small independent
operator) that had lined up some state timberland offered him
a job. "It was a godsend," the woman recalls. "We were
selling our furniture to feed our children." The day before
the loggers were to start clearing the site, state wildlife
officials discovered an owl nest nearby and banned cutting.
That evening, after a petty argument over lost car keys, the
husband beat the woman, breaking her nose. "He'd never done
anything like that before," she says. "He cracked. I honestly
believe the prospect of losing his life's work overwhelmed
him." The husband has since moved away from Forks. "I don't
know where he is," says the woman.
   Other crimes are rising too. Vern Johnson, chief of
police, says drunk driving arrests have tripled since last
spring. "These people are faced with losing everything, and
they're trying to numb the pain," Mr. Johnson says.
   More troubling, Irene Smith, a school mental-health
counselor, says at least five children have attempted suicide
in the past several months. All were from logging families,
and all had seen their fathers lose their jobs. "There is an
air of anxiety and fear hanging over this whole town, and
that psychological toll on our children has been horrendous,"
Ms. Smith says. The local high school has canceled its course
in logging. Administrators couldn't justify encouraging
youngsters to go into logging.
   The sullenness even intruded on the town's Fourth of July
bash last summer. One float after another inched down Main
Street denouncing owls and environmentalists. A hot-rod
headed for the annual demolition derby seemed to sum up
Forks's mood: Painted in camouflage, it showed Saddam Hussein
being overrun by U.S. tanks. A caption read: "Tree huggers
next."
   In this charged and edgy atmosphere, Justin Dwyer sees
opportunity. Mr. Dwyer, an amiable 23-year-old with
close-cropped brown hair, is Washington state director of the
White Aryan Resistance. Flanked by two skinhead colleagues at
a restaurant across Puget Sound from Seattle, Mr. Dwyer
expounds on what he calls "racialnomics," a melange of
conservative economics, pro-worker sentiment and
government-bashing. He downplays the racist aspect of White
Aryan Resistance's credo. "Basically, we don't think an owl
is worth any white worker's job," Mr. Dwyer says. "The
government has betrayed the white loggers of this country."
   It says something about the level of desperation in Forks
that Mr. Dwyer and his cohorts think now's the time to mount
a recruiting push there, though Forks folks are quick to say
that this won't play in their town.
   Many Forks loggers are simply packing up and moving on,
following the trees, hoping to get there before
environmentalists do. Dennis Coats grew up in Forks, and went
to work in the woods the day after he graduated from high
school in 1970. Until recently, he could pull in about
$30,000 a year. Now he's headed for Alaska, temporarily
leaving his wife, three boys and a father in failing health
to go north to scope things out. "I feel like I'm being run
out of my own town," he says.
   He pauses. "You know, I would have been perfectly happy to
live and die right here in this community," he says. The next
morning, early, Mr. Coats and his wife JoAnn have a cup of
coffee in the Pay 'n Serve cafe, hold hands, say goodbye --
and Mr. Coats strikes out for Alaska.
   For those who stay in Forks, the state has set up programs
that are supposed to retrain displaced loggers for other
work, like prison guard at the state penitentiary, or
refrigerator repairman.
   The program has been a bust. Few loggers in Forks are much
interested in being anything but loggers, especially when
jobs the state steers them toward pay about half as much.
Radd Leighton, a former Forest Service ranger who's a case
manager for the program in Forks, finds this frustrating, but
understandable. "The woods are a lot more appealing than some
place with fluorescent light bulbs," he says. "I have yet to
see a bear or a deer or an eagle wander through this office."
   Another problem: Many loggers didn't graduate from high
school; they went straight into the woods as young teenagers.
Many need extensive work to bring their reading skills up to
snuff. "These are intelligent people, but their education may
be inadequate, or they just haven't used those skills much,"
says Mr. Leighton. "But what do you do with someone who is a
high-school dropout making $20 an hour, and you're telling
him he has to study for six months to get up to speed for a
GED so he can qualify for a job making $10 an hour? What you
do is watch them hit the door and head for Alaska or Idaho."
   Sandra Kint-Ironhill heads an embryonic economic
development effort aimed at remaking Forks. She talks
enthusiastically of bringing in new light industry, of
offbeat agricultural projects like growing mushrooms, of
retirement resorts and tourism. She has few illusions,
however. There's that rain, relentless, day after day after
day. "It takes getting used to." And on the tourism front,
there's a problem of aesthetics. "The first time I saw a
clear-cut, I was devastated -- it looked like nuclear
holocaust," she says. "But there's so much more to this
community than clear-cuts." s
   For most people in Forks, tourism and mushroom farming
seem poor substitutes. Joe McReynolds sits in a den festooned
with timber ornaments -- clocks carved from spruce and yew,
paintings of the woods done by his wife, collages of photos
of loggers at work. For the first time in nearly 30 years,
Mr. McReynolds is out of a job. He thought the gyppo outfit
he owns with his sons, which at its peak employed 20 men, had
a good chance to win the bidding on 50 acres of state
timberland recently, but wildlife officials found an owl's
nest nearby and canceled the sale. "It's just the damndest
thing you ever heard of," he says.
   At 62 years old, Mr. McReynolds worries that he's at the
end of the line. He owes money on about $1 million of
equipment. Almost everything he ever earned he put back into
the business, and what he did put aside for retirement has
been mostly used up paying bills lately. "I have no income,"
he says. "I've been cheated out of my livelihood. I'm broke."
   In 1962, Mr. McReynolds and some friends put on an
exhibition of logging skills like pole climbing, tree sawing
and ax heaving at the Fourth of July festivities. It became
an annual event, a real show-stopper. Last year, he didn't
bother attending the logging show. "It doesn't have the feel
it once did," he says.
   He rambles through his den, pointing out a clock carved by
a friend. "He got killed in the woods two years ago," Mr.
McReynolds remarks matter-of-factly. He examines a framed
collage of bleary snapshots -- his son with a chain saw, he
and the boys dangling from the fat trunk of a spruce, himself
atop a big logging truck.
   "Well," he says, "it was fun while it lasted."