Thrift Industry
   Had Profitable
   1991, U.S. Says
   ----
   By Paulette Thomas
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
But the plan, which involves government assistance without
wiping out shareholder interests entirely, has sparked a
contentious debate on Capitol Hill, and it won't be known for
several more weeks whether the thrift regulators will pursue
those transactions.
   "Some people are excited about it, and want us to do it,"
Mr. Ryan said. "Others are excited and don't want us to do
it. We believe we have the statutory authority, and we would
like to do it in a fashion that makes sense."
   How -- and whether -- the government alters its plan for
dead and marginal thrifts will set the course for the last
big hurdle of the SL mess. Three big, shaky California SLs
-- CalFed Inc., Los Angeles; Glenfed Inc., Glendale, and
HomeFed Corp., San Diego -- have combined assets approaching
$50 billion. It's expected that they may eventually require
government assistance, or be taken over.
   Government takeovers of almost 700 SLs, plus lower
interest rates, have resuscitated what remains of the
industry after a costly, three-year restructuring. Those
trends, along with the prospect of some government assistance
in the purchase, have been sufficient to attract attention
from potential investors, Mr. Ryan said.
   "Buyers see significant savings due to consolidations in
the industry," Mr. Ryan said. He declined to say if buyers
are looking in particular at any of the three large
California SLs.
   The next few weeks probably will determine whether his
proposal can clear fierce political hurdles. Mr. Ryan and his
aides have been spending days on Capitol Hill pushing the
idea, with mixed results. Sen. Jake Garn of Utah, the ranking
Republican on the Senate Banking Committee, was formerly
skeptical of the plan, but spoke of it favorably last week,
as a way to save bailout costs.
   "Something ought to be worked out in this area," Sen. Garn
told the committee at a hearing, after meeting with Mr. Ryan.
"We ought to be looking for the least cost for the taxpayer."
   But such a proposal would rip to pieces the only political
cover members of Congress have on the SL disaster. Right
now, Congress can claim that all the costs -- roughly $230
billion -- go to protect depositors in failed SLs.
   "We have said repeatedly that this money goes to pay off
depositors," said Rep. Chalmers Wylie, ranking Republican on
the House Banking Committee, who remains leery of the idea.
If the plan is approved, he said, it should be paid for
separately from the rest of the SL bailout. If the thrift
office tries to implement the plan without explicit
congressional approval, he added, "I think they might be
treading on thin ice."
   Mr. Ryan envisions a plan in which buyers would put in new
capital to the shaky-but-solvent SLs. The government and
existing shareholders would receive warrants to purchase
stock in the institution at a future date. The government
would split off the bad assets to be managed separately by
the buyer with the government picking up most of the losses.
   "The potential for savings is significant," William C.
Ferguson, president of Ferguson  Co., a Washington-based
financial industry consulting firm, said in a recent report.
   One of the most difficult issues is determining which SLs
might be part of the rescue plan. Mr. Ryan is to appear
before a House banking subcommittee on the topic Tuesday. The
thrift office is holding a hearing to seek comment on the
plan March 25.