Executive Life
   Junk Bond Sale
   Pushed by Official
   ----
   By Frederick Rose
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
"Despite the notion of some that the junk bond market as a
whole is improving, that is not true of the (Executive Life)
junk bond protfolio," Mr. Garamendi told Judge Kurt Lewin,
according to a text made available by Mr. Garamendi's office.
   Judge Lewin on Dec. 26 approved a $3.55 billion
liquidation package for Executive Life that includes first
the sale of Executive Life's vast junk bond portfolio to
Altus Finance for $3.25 billion, and then the sale for $300
million of the newly restructured insurance company to a
French investor group led by Mutuelle Assurance Artisanale de
France. Altus Finance is a subsidiary of the French bank
Credit Lyonnais.
   In the month since that decision, Mr. Garamendi said
defaults have occurred on $87.7 million of Zales Corp. bonds,
$26.3 million of Pay 'N' Save securities, $20 million of
Ambrit, $77.6 million of Telemundo securities, $30.7 million
of Orion Pictures securities, and most recently, $34.7
million of R.H. Macy  Co. securities.
   Although the court has provisionally approved the
liquidation plan, the bond sale to Altus has been delayed
because of motions by trustees for about $1.85 billion of
municipal bonds backed by Executive Life, who have been at
odds with Mr. Garamendi over his disposition of Executive
Life.
   Lawyers for the trustees of the so-called "muni-GIC" bonds
yesterday noted that the actual decline in value of Executive
Life's holdings noted by Mr. Garamendi was far less than
their $270 million book value. "He's suggesting that the
bonds' entire value has evaporated; it hasn't," said Phillip
Warden, who represents various banks who are the trustees of
about $1.6 billion of the muni-GICs.
   Mr. Warden and other lawyers said Mr. Garamendi's
complaints to the court about delay are misplaced, in part
because Mr. Garamendi himself has made technical changes to
the pact over time. The agreement with Altus, which is
subject to a number of conditions, expires March 31.
   Mr. Garamendi said that "Altus has advised me that it is
losing substantial sums every month that this deal doesn't
close." But he didn't offer details of those losses, nor was
it clear that the default rate in Executive Life's portfolio
was higher than previously estimated by the commissioner and
his advisers, who have in the past worried aloud that their
prospective purchaser might walk away from the transaction.
   It's believed that Executive Life's portfolio now includes
about $2.2 billion, book value, of defaulted bonds. Defaulted
issues in the portfolio were relatively constant in the
latter part of last year, but jumped in recent weeks with a
wave of new bankruptcies.
   A spokesman for Altus said the firm wasn't able to engage
in so-called "workouts" in troubled cases until it has
ownership of the bonds, although it currently has some rights
over actions by Mr. Garamendi and his advisers. "Being in
this period of limbo puts us in a very difficult position,"
said the spokesman. He added that "there is a risk to delay."