REVIEW  OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   Austerity Paul
In New Hampshire, Mr. Tsongas had gained the high ground
by stressing his "pro-business" themes for economic recovery.
His attacks on Mr. Clinton's "middle-class tax cut" were
persistent but secondary to his growth theme. He would
unapologetically cut the capital-gains tax and offer other
incentives to get the economy moving again. "My job as
President," he would say to crowds, even to the unemployed,
"is to make the economy grow."
   In the South, on the other hand, Mr. Tsongas has been
playing mostly defense. His growth agenda has given way to an
almost-righteous, "I will not lie to you" theme. It's true
that Mr. Clinton has played the demagogue by attacking Mr.
Tsongas for proposing a higher gas tax and for a vote from
the 1980s to freeze cost-of-living increases for Social
Security. Mr. Clinton has also borrowed the Tom Harkin
rhetoric of calling Mr. Tsongas a me-too Reaganite.
   But Mr. Tsongas's response has been to blame the voters
for believing it. "You're not going to pander your way into
the White House as long as I'm around," Mr. Tsongas said,
with Mr. Clinton clearly in mind, on Tuesday night. "What the
Democratic Party needs and what America needs is more
courageous lions and less pander bears in the zoo." This may
be true, but Mr. Tsongas lost a golden opportunity to ignore
Mr. Clinton and restate why his own agenda is a better
alternative.
   In particular, he might have asked Mr. Clinton how it will
help the economy to take (tax) money from the same people who
actually have it to invest in new ventures. Or he might have
explained how Japan and Germany tax capital gains at lower
rates than America does, a competitive disadvantage. He might
also have explained how entrepreneurs and new companies, not
the Fortune 500, are the job creators in the U.S. economy,
thereby aligning himself with business's up-and-coming
"little guys." Instead, Mr. Tsongas gave the public a lecture
about "pander bears."
   It's probably also true that Mr. Tsongas's other leading
theme -- his social liberalism -- didn't go over well in
Dixie, even with Democrats. Mr. Tsongas does do better among
the affluent and university set who can afford to sneer at
bourgeois culture, but average Southerners have never felt
that way. Mr. Clinton appealed to those Southerners as one of
their own (though one wonders if the Clintons would quickly
espouse more socially advanced values once they're free of
Arkansas).
   Mr. Tsongas has staked his campaign on the insight that
Democratic class-warfare themes are self-defeating, that
growth is politically more important than "fairness." If he
really believes this, he'll have more credibility running as
a growth Democrat rather than as an austerity Republican.