McDonnell Offers
   Alternative Design
   For Commercial Jet
   ----
   By Jeff Cole
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The four-engine design -- more closely resembling the
popular 747 jetliner family offered by rival Boeing Co. --
was presented to Delta Air Lines and the American Airlines
unit of AMR Corp., spokesmen for those carriers confirmed.
Other possible buyers include Japan Air Lines, Singapore
Airlines, Swissair and Federal Express Corp.
   McDonnell Douglas's indecision over basic design suggests
to some analysts that the project -- which it has said is
necessary to its survival in commercial aircraft building --
may be foundering. It also suggests that, because a
four-engine plane could be far more expensive to develop,
costs could rise sharply. That possibility could put more
pressure on Taiwan investors, who have preliminarily agreed
to a $2 billion equity infusion into the airliner operations
for the purpose of developing the new plane.
   The new design apparently has the added advantage of
letting McDonnell Douglas into the wave of super-sized
airliners being reviewed by Boeing and Airbus Industrie as a
way to carry 600 passengers. McDonnell Douglas has said the
MD-12 basically is being built to seat more than 400
passengers, although the option it is discussing of adding a
second tier of seats could allow much greater capacity.
   In an interview, Mr. Feren said that in all potential
designs, the company has "preserved" the option of seating
for up to 600 passengers and flying them 8,000 nautical
miles.
   McDonnell Douglas has said that it needs a bigger,
longer-range jetliner to add to its line of MD-11 wide-body
aircraft and MD-80 narrow-body jets. If it decides to go
ahead, it would produce the MD-12 by 1997, although it hasn't
said how much the plane might cost.
   A discussion of the company's latest design options first
appeared in this week's Aviation Week magazine.
   Company officials have said they expect to settle on a new
design by early May. Robert Hood Jr., president of the
Douglas Aircraft unit, said last week that some potential
airline customers are expected to review the final design in
about six weeks.
   But some aerospace analysts suggest that any major design
changes now would signal to many that the MD-12 is faltering
at an inopportune time. "It appears as if McDonnell Douglas
doesn't know what the MD-12 really is," said Phil Friedman of
Morgan Stanley  Co. Paul Nisbet of Prudential Securities
Inc. said an altered design approach could add $1 billion to
the development cost.
   Mr. Feren, however, said some added cost could be offset
by savings from not having to accommodate the costly feature
of an engine in the tail of the new jet to go with two
under-wing engines.
   McDonnell Douglas officials have estimated the MD-12 will
cost $4 billion to $5 billion to produce. Boeing has cited
other estimates that the real cost to Douglas in negative
cash flow will be closer to $10 billion.
   Mr. Nisbet said that the recent addition of a design
option implies that the company's deal to secure $2 billion
in equity from Taiwan Aerospace Corp. is far from secure.
Analysts have speculated lately that McDonnell Douglas's plan
for financing development of the aircraft is in trouble on
both sides of the Pacific. In return for the investment, the
Taiwan company would build wings and fuselages for the MD-12,
and would own up to 40% of all McDonnell Douglas's
commercial-aircraft operations. The proposed deal, which
faces strong opposition from some elected officals in Taiwan,
is being questioned in congressional hearings and by Boeing.
   "I think it's definitely up in the air, or there wouldn't
be uncertainty as to the configuration," Mr. Nisbet said.