Michael Foods
   Draws Analysts'
   Long-Term Bet
   ----
   By Richard Gibson
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Despite disappointing short-term prospects, Michael's
stock has soared since its announcement last week that it is
testing a reduced-cholesterol egg product. The runup to as
much as $20.50 from a pre-announcement price of $15.375 added
nearly $100 million to the company's market capitalization,
although Michael hasn't announced any customers for the
product yet.
   Some analysts are skeptical about the increase. "To
justify this multiple, one has to assume there will be no
hitches in this new product and that there will be no delay
in any certification of the plant or product," Merrill Lynch
Capital Markets analyst Leonard Teitelbaum said. "If there
is, there's vulnerability."
   Mr. Teitelbaum, whose rating on the stock is "neutral,"
has trimmed his estimate for this year to the range of $1.10
to $1.15 a share. For the first quarter, he expects earnings
of 18 to 20 cents a share, compared with 34 cents a share
last year when there were three million fewer shares
outstanding.
   Analyst Paul Shain at Robert Baird  Co., Milwaukee, says
he has cut his 1992 estimate to $1.05 a share from $1.20
because of margin deterioration in the company's
commodity-based businesses. Michael is being squeezed by
Kraft General Foods' lower pricing on cheeses, and Mr. Shain
doesn't foresee a letup until the second half.
   As for prospects for Simply Eggs, the reduced-cholesterol
product being developed, Mr. Shain says, "Near-term, people
need to be realistic. Predicting volumes, when it will happen
and how much it will cost to develop is not easy." So is the
runup justified? "Given the market we're in, probably," he
says, adding, "You have to scratch your head. I personally
want to be a little cautious."
   Michael has said it intends to sell Simply Eggs to food
manufacturers, restaurants and other food-service customers,
and the retail market and to be competitive with other
reduced-cholesterol egg-substitute products now on the
market.
   The company says it plans to market the product even if it
hasn't received Food and Drug Administration approval of the
process by which cholesterol is removed from yolks. If the
FDA later decides the processing substance,
beta-cyclodextrin, isn't safe, it could order the product
recalled. The company has filed a petition requesting that
the agency find the substance safe for human consumption.
   Ronald Strauss, who follows Michael Foods for William
Blair  Co. in Chicago, advises clients that a key question
about Simply Eggs is whether it contributes to better
nutrition. "The answer is that it does, but not to the extent
that one might think," he says. The analyst says the product
doesn't eliminate cholesterol, as some other egg-white-based
products do.
   As for this year's results, Mr. Strauss says, "We remain
cautious on the company's earnings through the first nine
months." He is estimating 90 cents a share for the full year
and assuming that Simply Eggs "will be a drag on earnings
amounting to a few cents per share" this year. A recovery
next year "seems reasonable," he says.