Management Team
   At Conran's in U.S.
   Seeking Buy-Out
   ----
   By Jeffrey A. Trachtenberg
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
According to people familiar with the situation, the
buy-out would be led by Conran's management team here,
including Martin Burke, president and chief executive officer
of Conran's Habitat USA. Mr. Burke, 38 years old, declined to
comment. He is a former executive at R.H. Macy  Co. and was
hired by Storehouse in July 1990 to turn around Conran's
business in the U.S.
   Conran's generates an estimated $100 million in revenue
annually, and analysts say it isn't currently profitable.
Analysts estimated that the chain could bring $20 million to
$40 million, depending on the value of its store leases.
   Conran's opened in 1977 in the U.S. with considerable
fanfare. Shoppers applauded the store's adventurous
presentation of home furnishings, particularly its kitchen
utensils, plates, glassware and other homerelated
accessories.
   By the mid-1980s, however, it was becoming clear that
Conran's missed the opportunity to become a dominant force in
the home furnishings market. Retail observers say that the
store began to lose its image with upscale consumers, and
that business went into a steep decline.
   "They were very hot when they opened in New York, but I
don't think their business ever translated well outside of
Manhattan," said Budd Bugatch, a furniture industry analyst
for Ferris, Baker Watts, Inc., based in Baltimore. Mr.
Bugatch said the best-selling items never carried big profit
margins, and the company's pricier furniture lines didn't
have broad appeal.
   Until the past 18 months, the merchandise and display
lacked new ideas, colors and patterns, and prices were
climbing, said Alan Millstein, a retail consultant. Since
then, Conran's has shown steady improvement, he said.
   According to those familiar with the retailer, Mr. Burke
has closed nonperforming stores, installed new computers and
put new inventory into the remaining stores. Conran's is
scheduled to open three new stores by the end of May,
including units in McLean, Va.; Burbank, Calif.; and Los
Angeles.