Tracking Travel
   ----
   By Jonathan Dahl
THE RICH aren't letting the sputtering economy crimp their
travel plans.
   Travel agents say their super-rich clients -- the kind who
charter flights and sleep in $2,000-a-night suites -- are
vacationing just as much or more in the past year or so as
before. Bill Fischer, a New York travel agent who caters to
this crowd, says his business is up 20% from a year ago.
   Similarly, several hoteliers and cruise lines say their
most expensive suites and cabins are selling out faster than
a year ago. Royal Viking Line says the penthouse suite on its
Sun ship is still "one of the first to go" -- even at
$116,000 for a 97-day cruise.
   In Chicago, the Ritz-Carlton's "State Suites," which cost
$2,500 a night, are booked months in advance. "That kind of
traveler just isn't affected by a recession as much," a
spokeswoman says.
   The sluggish economy didn't stop one couple from recently
booking a $500,000, three-week honeymoon in Europe, Mr.
Fischer says. Along with Concorde flights, royal suites in
London, Paris and Rome, and RollsRoyces waiting at every
stop, the couple played tennis with the top teaching pros at
Wimbledon and hired a personal shopper for antique and
clothing shopping sprees. They also hired a helicopter so
they could commute between Antibes, France, and Monte Carlo.
   "They wanted to stay in both places but they didn't want
to get stuck in traffic," Mr. Fischer says.
   The rich are a demanding clientele. Mr. Fischer says it
isn't unusual for clients to call him during a trip with a
long list of demands -- from sending over a fax machine to
shipping special baby formula. Some clients think nothing of
calling him when they're rushing for a commercial flight
(going first class, of course) and asking him to hold the
flight.
   "They're on their car phones telling me how close they are
to the airport," Mr. Fischer says. He adds that airlines
won't hold flights but will meet some passengers curbside to
usher them in quickly.
                                                                                                       

   Hotels, Rental Firms Raise
   Ante for Frequent Fliers
                                                                                                       

   AIRLINES haven't been very generous with their
frequent-flier programs in years. But hotels and car-rental
companies are only just starting to get into this craze.
   Radisson Hotels International is offering three times the
frequent-flier mileage it normally credits to customers who
belong to its airline partners' plans. National Car Rental
System is doubling the mileage for customers who use its
automated check-in machine and who fly on Continental,
Northwest, United or some other airline partners. Thrifty
Rent-a-Car System is also offering extra miles to some
customers. Most of the programs are good until the end of
March or April.
   "It used to be the airlines that pushed these programs"
with frequent bonus awards and other promotions, says Randy
Petersen of InsideFlyer magazine. "But they are just too
broke to keep plugging them. So it's the hotels and
car-rental companies that are getting into the act."
   Still, the latest offers don't amount to as much of a
giveaway as the airlines' old specials. Travelers could once
get triple mileage for trips of 3,000 or 4,000 miles; hotels
are doubling or tripling their relatively modest awards of
500 to 1,000 miles. "The base is much smaller," Mr. Petersen
says. He adds most airlines now have three-year limits on
when mileage can be used.
                                                                                                       

   American Airlines, TWA
   Join Forces in Promotion
                                                                                                       

   AMERICAN Airlines has started boasting about a new special
promotion to Europe -- on TWA.
   A recent ad that ran in both American's and Trans World
Airlines' frequent-flier newsletters urged readers to "see
Europe for less this winter on TWA." Then it advises: "For
more information, call American Airlines."
   Since last July, the two airlines have been partial
partners in their frequent-flier programs; members of
American's frequent-flier plan can, for example, use their
mileage for trips on certain TWA routes. As a result, the two
carriers say, they run joint promotions.
   "I was surprised, too," by the ad, a TWA spokesman says.
But both he and an American spokesman say the ad makes sense
given the carriers' frequent-flier ties. And many airlines,
they say, are partners in frequent-flier programs. "It's
really no big deal," says a spokesman for American, a unit of
AMR.
   But critics say the partnerships usually involve foreign
and U.S. carriers, not major domestic competitors. And
advertising together, they say, shows how low the competitive
spirit in the industry has sunk. For decades, the carriers
were fierce rivals.
   "I guess it just says that these airlines no longer
consider themselves competitors," says Jane Costello, editor
of Business Flyer.
                                                                                                       

   Odds and Ends
                                                                                                       

   BUSINESS air fares fell an average of 9% last month from
January, according to American Express Travel Related
Services. That's the first decrease since March 1991. The
agency cites declines in fares in some transcontinental
markets. . . . Commuter airlines last year had one of their
worst safety records, the Aviation Safety Institute reports.
There were 77 deaths on commuter lines in 1991, the
Worthington, Ohio, group reports. The number of general
aviation accidents, those involving small private planes,
declined 2% to 2,143. . . . A Federal Communications
Commission rule that personal cellular phones can be used on
planes only when they are on the ground will take effect
Monday.