Letters to the Editor:
   Ireland's History: Never Say Die
Since the invasion of Ireland by a Norman army
representing the English throne in 1169 A.D., tiny Ireland
has faced constant invasions by England -- a country 20 times
more populous. Ireland has suffered every imaginable
atrocity, including multiple genocides and the deliberate
total destruction of its vast forests.
   Ireland never surrendered -- not even during the brutal
military occupation of the entire country, which lasted from
1692 to 1922, when the minuscule Irish army drove the English
army out of 80% of the country; the retreating English
managed to cling to a beachhead that was presented to the
world as a legitimate statelet dubbed "Northern Ireland."
   It is hoped that with the liberation of the rest of
occupied Ireland, the English propaganda machine will stop
pumping its fictions about Ireland into gullible minds in
this country.
   Alfred E. Reilly
   Waltham, Mass.
   ---
   Mr. Day stated that the pope in 1155 "gave the island to
the English." Left out was one ironic fact: The pope in
question (who had taken the title Adrian IV) was himself an
Englishman.
   His true name was Nicholas Breakspear, the only English
pope, who apparently remained loyal to his native land.
   John F. Drum
   Boston
   ---
   One would be hard pressed to concur with Mr. Day's
assertion of a united Ireland under the British in light of
the discriminatory practices, most notably the Penal Laws.
Under these laws, Irish Catholics could not sit in or vote
for the "national Parliament {that} evolved." They were not
allowed to practice law or to serve in the navy, and were not
permitted to possess arms or own a horse. No Catholic could
run a school or send his children abroad to be educated. The
complex landownership regulations virtually removed land from
Catholic hands.
   If this is Mr. Day's idea of unification, I'd say it is he
who is suffering from illusions.
   Thomas P. Kelly
   Jersey City, N.J.
   ---
   I was outraged when I read Mr. Day's denial that Ireland
was not a nation before the British conquered it, as if that
makes the military occupation reasonable or justified. For
centuries before 1002 A.D., when Ireland was first united
under King Brian Boru, the island had been divided into four
rival kingdoms: Connacht, Leinster, Munster and Ulster. In
general, a single, powerful family or clan dominated each
kingdom. With Ireland's unification under King Brian, the
four kingdoms eventually disappeared.
   The British have committed, and are committing, genocide
of Irish people and Irish culture. It was once a crime to be
a Catholic or speak Gaelic.
   The world today cannot tolerate European colonization of
Africans or Asians, but continues to allow Britain to use its
army to kill Irishmen in Ireland for exercising their desire
to live free from foreign domination. Poland is free, Latvia
is free; isn't it a stain on the cloak of freedom that in the
last decade of the 20th century, the Irish are still not free
of the English master?
   Doyle L. Tarwater
   McMurray, Pa.