Economy:
   Democrats Rush to Pass Jobless Aid Bill
   As Bush Signals a Change on Benefits
   ----
   By Jackie Calmes
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
"I can't conceive of the president using the emergency
option if he's to hold to what he has said in the past,"
Illinois Rep. Robert Michel, the House Republican leader,
said at a House hearing.
   Mr. Bush, who last year initially opposed an extension of
benefits and then fought Congress over how to pay for one, is
signaling support for an extension this year. He has been
trying to show he cares about victims of the ailing economy
and to arrest his slide in political polls. But Mr. Bush
denied that his support amounts to an election-year
conversion, insisting he opposed past Democratic initiatives
because they would add to the deficit.
   "It wasn't a conversion," he said. "It was fighting for
what was right for the taxpayer as well as those who were
hurting, and we've prevailed."
   Earlier this year, when Democrats announced they would
seek to extend unemployment benefits further, an
administration spokesman said the White House wasn't
interested in another extension. But Wednesday, White House
spokesman Marlin Fitzwater suggested that Mr. Bush might
propose his own bill.
   Political competition on the issue bodes well for quick
passage of some bill in coming weeks. And the grounds for
compromise surfaced at yesterday's hearing of the House Ways
and Means subcommittee responsible for unemployment
compensation. Rep. Dan Rostenkowski (D., Ill.), chairman of
the full committee and sponsor of the newest bill, said, "We
can pay for at least half" of the bill's cost.
   According to Rep. Rostenkowski, the president's Office of
Management and Budget recently said Congress last year raised
$3.7 billion more than needed to pay for unemployment
benefits through fiscal 1995. He said that extra money could
be used for another extension of benefits. "We'd be happy to
negotiate," he said.
   "That's a good option for us, and I think we ought to
seize upon that," Rep. Michel said later.
   At issue are extra federal benefits for workers who
exhaust their initial 26 weeks of state aid and still haven't
found a job. Last year's bill provided 13 to 20 extra weeks
of payments, depending on the unemployment rate in the
claimant's state, with claims allowed through mid-June. The
Democrats' new bill would add 13 more weeks of benefits to
current claimants still out of work, and extend the overall
program into October -- a month before the election.
   The Labor Department said initial claims for state
unemployment insurance rose 46,000 to 447,000 in the week
ended Jan. 11. Initial claims fell in the week ended Jan. 4,
partly because unemployment offices were closed for the New
Year's Day holiday; claims often rise the week following a
holiday. David Mullins, vice chairman of the Federal Reserve
Board, said the rise for the Jan. 11 week was "in line with
expectations."
   The average level of unemployment claims for the four
weeks ended Jan. 11 was 453,000, down from an average of
454,750 for the previous four-week period. A total of
3,440,000 people were receiving state benefits in the week
ended Jan. 4, or 3.3% of those eligible, up from 3,260,000,
or 3.1%, the previous week. The figures are adjusted for
usual seasonal factors.
   Separately, a group of Democrats introduced legislation
aimed at forcing Japan to erase its trade surplus with the
U.S. over five years. "Our bill is designed to open the
Japanese market, to fight Japanese protectionism and to give
American workers and American firms the right to compete
overseas and the ability to generate wealth here at home,"
said the measure's primary sponsor, Majority Leader Richard
Gephardt (D., Mo.).