Letters to the Editor:
   Hospital's Puzzling Mortality Data
So why the apparent excess mortality? All one can say is
that the process of cardiac surgery at the Harrisburg
Hospital led to a more than statistically expected number of
deaths in a defined time period, 1989. Specifically, whether
anything is remiss in this process is not revealed by one
year's mortality statistics.
   At a time when our nation's health bill is zooming past
the $800 billion mark, hospitals and physicians owe
well-defined outcome data to their patients and third-party
payers. Nothing less will do. However, the focus must be
directed away from physician and institutional personalities
to refining the analysis and development of processes to
deliver optimal outcomes.
   Lawrence J. Shaffer, M.D.
   Orlando, Fla.
   ---
   I am amazed at how much information is left out of the
controversy over why Harrisburg Hospital has higher cost and
mortality statistics than Lancaster General. You tell us that
relevant facts and figures are very hard to find, yet make
the inflated claim that "the laws of economics have been
repealed in the health business." I know how Harrisburg
Hospital delivers care because I have worked as a
critical-care nurse there for almost three years. I take care
of post-operative bypass patients. I know that at Harrisburg
Hospital, a patient who becomes severely unstable during a
heart catheterization or angioplasty is rushed to bypass
surgery immediately. I know that a cardiothoracic surgeon is
on standby for every cath case. And I know that I work with a
large staff of extremely knowledgeable, competent,
well-trained nurses. I, of course, don't know if the same
quality or type of service is offered at Lancaster General.
   Lisa A. Kyper, R.N.
   Harrisburg, Pa.
   ---
   Harrisburg Hospital's charges for bypass surgery are high,
as is its mortality rate. But Ernest McDowell doesn't "know
how a person could make a decision based on this data"?
   Really? As senior vice president for marketing for
Harrisburg Hospital, Mr. McDowell should understand only too
well that cost plus quality information is a pretty standard
way to purchase anything -- whether it's a car or health-care
services.
   In Pennsylvania, we're thankful for our progressive
legislators in our state capital and the coalition of labor,
business and consumer interests that have worked long and
hard to keep the Health Care Cost Containment Council in
business. As a multistate employer, we only wish other states
would follow suit.
   Patricia Coyle
   Manager, Employee Benefits
   Rohm  Haas Co.
   Philadelphia