Californians, Already Laid-Back,
   Will Now Be Freewheeling, Too
   ----
   By Carrie Dolan
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Under city policy, builders of new housing developments
now must agree to provide "two new adult-sized bicycles free
of charge" with each home.
   But the details aren't crystal clear.
   "Considering that Greenfield is as flat as a pond, will a
10-speed bike be required, or will an archaic, single-speed
cycle fulfill the contract?" asked retired builder Maurice
Schoenbrun in a column in nearby Monterey's Herald newspaper.
"Can the owner hock the cycle to help meet mortgage payments?
If he sells his home, do the bicycles roll with the title?"
   Other communities deride the plan. "I don't believe
providing two bicycles will relieve traffic congestion," says
Sheryl McKenzie, government-affairs director for the boards
of real estate in Monterey and Carmel. "Who's going to carry
groceries home on a bike?"
   City Manager Arturo de la Cerda, who bicycles to maintain
his weight, came up with the idea. He says the city must
require developers to "undertake measures to mitigate impacts
on air quality," so he decided they should "try to give back
something of value" to new-home buyers. Giving people bikes,
he says, will help reduce air pollution and traffic
congestion more than "using money to pay for a rideshare
coordinator, or to pay some bureaucrat to do more
transportation studies."
   Wes Ball, a developer who hopes to win approval next week
for a planned subdivision of 105 new homes, calls the bike
provision a "novel" way to fight air pollution, but thinks
"other ways are more effective." He predicts children of the
new-home buyers will end up riding the bikes, while their
parents drive around town. Still, he says it would be too
costly to fight the requirement, so he has already talked to
a friend who owns a bike shop to see if he can get a deal.
   Actually, he's had a few offers from friends who find the
requirement amusing. "People keep asking me if I want to buy
a used bike," he says. "I just hope I don't have to build a
three-car garage on every house to put the bikes in."