Enterprise:
   Russian Art, Once Unknown, Is Peddled in America
   ---
   Entrepreneurs Face Supply Glut,
   Red Tape and Fickle Capitalist Public
   ----
   By David J. Jefferson
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
A 32-year-old full-time paramedic, he got started in the
art business last year, after a painting he had bought on a
trip to St. Petersburg arrived with a note from the dealer
asking if he would host a Los Angeles exhibit of Russian
artists. Before long, he had joined the growing ranks of
American entrepreneurs trying to capitalize on the cachet of
the culture of the former Soviet Union.
   Today, though, many of these entrepreneurs are discovering
the risks of jumping into unfamiliar terrain. Cultural
differences can produce unexpected complications and
exporting art can involve plenty of red tape. Worse, U.S.
enthusiasm for art from the region shows signs of dwindling
after its surge a few years ago.
   "This is not a get-rich-quick scheme," cautions New York
gallery owner Ronald Feldman, who first began showing Soviet
art -- much of it smuggled out of the country -- 13 years
ago.
   Indeed, three of the most prominent Los Angeles galleries
that specialized in contemporary art from the republics have
recently closed. Ayzenberg Gallery shut down in December,
cutting short an exhibit of Rupert Perrin's private
collection of contemporary art.
   The market began to flood after Sotheby's held a highly
successful auction of Soviet art in 1988. Overnight,
little-known artists from Russia and other Soviet republics
began demanding sky-high prices.
   Of course, many of these artists, such as Mr. Ovchinnikov,
are well known. Nevertheless, "there's a lot of unknown stuff
being hauled around that people are trying to sell," says
Elena Kornetchuk, who has been importing art from the former
Soviet Union since 1978 and has a gallery in Sewickley, Pa.
"People will call me and say, `I've got this work by this
very famous Russian artist,' and it turns out it's absolutely
nobody."
   The glut of such works has worsened with the collapse of
the ruble. Unable to pay for foreign goods with their nearly
worthless currency, many enterprises and individuals in the
Commonwealth of Independent States are using paintings as
money. When James Driscoll, chairman of London's Storm Group
PLC, agreed to let a Russian television company publish books
based on his cartoon TV series, he received his royalty
payment in paintings.
   "Russians coming over here for a visit bring paintings
because they can't bring money," says San Francisco-area
artist Barbara Hazard. "I've bought about 40 pieces myself,
about 12 of which I think are very good, and the rest of
which I just got stuck with."
   Mr. Mendenhall, the Los Angeles dealer, saw mostly
"souvenir-type art" when he first combed the new private
galleries of St. Petersburg. He finally connected with
gallery owner Anna Hachaturian, who put him in touch with the
city's more serious underground art community. The two later
formed a partnership that has had to weather some cultural
storms.
   "Our task is to make our artists from St. Petersburg
known," Mrs. Hachaturian says through a translator on a
recent visit to Mr. Mendenhall's house. "Ted is a young
pioneer in this field," she adds, laughing at the "young
pioneers" line, a reference to a Communist youth group.
   But the two argue over who should foot the cargo bill for
shipping the art. Mr. Mendenhall says he thought the
agreement was for her to pay, but that all changed when
Aeroflot boosted the cargo charge to $2,000 from $500. Mr.
Mendenhall was aghast when the paintings arrived in cardboard
boxes rather than the wooden crates normally used for
shipping art. (Cardboard weighs less and is cheaper to ship).
   Mrs. Hachaturian, meanwhile, is annoyed with Mr.
Mendenhall's choice for the first exhibit of a small trendy
gallery with exposed beam ceilings in a turn-of-the century
brick building. "It's a cultural difference," explains Mr.
Mendenhall. "When they saw the open beams and the old bricks,
they thought we were dealing with lower-scale stuff."
   Sniffs Mrs. Hachaturian: "We consider the exhibits much
more interesting if they are held in large exhibit halls."