State Plans to Seal
   Cavern That Houses
   Hollywood's `Trolls'
   ---
   Leader of Runaways' Colony
   Turns Up in Prison, Vows
   To Return to `the Hole'
   ----
   By Sonia L. Nazario
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Pops, who had told Hollywood police his name was John
Soaring Eagle, is actually Ohio-born Roy John Marks, the
California Department of Corrections said. He has been at the
California Rehabilitation Center in Norco since Jan. 14. In
late November he was arrested by Hollywood police for
possession of a deadly weapon -- a spring-loaded baton -- and
was sent to state prison for parole violations including
failure to appear for narcotics testing, said George
Giurbino, a Norco spokesman.
   Detective Rick Papke of the Hollywood police, who earlier
indicated that Pops had no prison record, said he hadn't
known that a Hollywood patrol officer had identified and
arrested Pops.
   News of Pops's departure brought hope to some Hollywood
social workers. "Maybe if he's not here, these kids will try
to do other things with their lives," said Mindi Levins, a
case worker with Los Angeles Youth Network, a runaway
services agency. But while a few of the teens might be coaxed
off the streets, she predicted, most will probably find
"squats," or abandoned buildings, in Hollywood to continue
their existence as Trolls.
   Prison authorities said their records show that Mr. Marks
was convicted in Northern California in 1979 on armed robbery
charges and served 14 months in jail. In 1985 he was found
guilty of assaulting a police officer and served two years.
He has been jailed several times for violating parole,
California authorities said.
   A parole violation normally carries a one-year jail term.
Prison officials weren't immediately able to arrange an
interview with Mr. Marks. But he told the Riverside
Press-Enterprise late last week that he expects to be
released in August to return to the Trolls and once again
take the helm of the street family.
   The California Transportation Department, which has been
telling local social agencies for two years that it planned
to seal up the Hole, said a contractor has been hired to
begin work this week on a ten-foot concrete wall that will
block access to the cavern that it inadvertently created.
"This is not set up to house people," a spokeswoman for the
department said, adding that the agency repeatedly has
cleared out 30 to 60 people who have lived there, only to
have them return.