Money Manager
   Gets Indictment
   In Fraud Case
   ---
   Wymer `Scheme' Is Alleged
   To Cost Firms' Clients
   More Than $100 Million
   ----
   By Earl C. Gottschalk Jr.
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Mr. Wymer was arrested by federal agents at his Newport
Beach, Calif., home on Dec. 17 and remains in the
Metropolitan Detention Center in Los Angeles after a U.S.
magistrate judge denied bail.
   The indictment alleged that Mr. Wymer enticed clients to
use his investment services by making false promises, then
diverted their money to unauthorized uses. After the
Securities and Exchange Commission began to make inquiries
into suspicious trading activity by Mr. Wymer, he engineered
a "sophisticated cover-up" designed to obstruct and impede
the SEC's examination of his company's books and records,
according to the indictment.
   Attorneys for Mr. Wymer couldn't immediately be reached
for comment.
   According to the indictment, Mr. Wymer deceived customers
of his two firms, Institutional Treasury Management and
Denman & Co., into believing that their cash and securities
were safely maintained at third-party securities and
financial institutions. He also allegedly maintained that
they were earning extremely positive rates of return, the
indictment said.
   To "lull" customers into a false sense of security, Mr.
Wymer sent clients "false and fraudulent" monthly statements
that misrepresented and "overstated" the amount of funds and
securities held, the indictment alleged.
   In addition, Mr. Wymer falsely told customers that these
funds and securities were safely maintained at Refco
Securities Inc. and Refco Capital Corp., two New York
financial firms, the indictment said. Mr. Wymer was also
charged with "causing" International Treasury and Denman
employees to create "bogus trade confirmations" under Refco's
name for mailing to customers.
   Assistant U.S. Attorney James R. Asperger said federal
investigators are still trying to determine where the missing
$100 million went. "That's the question everyone wants to
know," he said. "The picture {emerging from federal
investigations} is not one of a trader who made some errors.
The scope is much broader than that."
   The indictment listed 14 cities and government units that
were monetary victims of the alleged fraudulent scheme. They
are Beaumont, Big Bear Lake, Coachella Valley, Grand Terrace,
Indio, La Quinta, Loma Linda, Orange, Palm Desert, Sanger and
Torrance, all California cities or government units.; Iowa
Trust, a pooled investment trust for several Iowa
municipalities and government units; the city of
Marshalltown, Iowa; and Investment Trust of Colorado, a
pooled investment trust for Colorado cities and government
units.
   Assistant U.S. Attorney Jean Kawahara said, however, that
the allegations of contrived trades and false information
weren't limited to the 14 parties mentioned in the
indictment.
   Mr. Wymer was also charged with engaging in
money-laundering transactions, with making false statements
to the SEC and with obstructing and impeding an SEC
examination and investigation. The SEC-related charges
occurred after the agency began to make inquiries about a
shortfall in the accounts of the city of Marshalltown, Iowa,
one of International Treasury's clients, the indictment said.
   On all the various counts, Mr. Wymer faces a maximum
possible total sentence of 275 years in prison and maximum
fines to exceed $14 million, Mr. Asperger said.
   The case is the result of an investigation by U.S. Postal
Service inspectors, the Federal Bureau of Investigation, and
the SEC.
   Institutional Treasury specialized in using allegedly
sophisticated trading strategies with U.S. Treasury
securities to bring cash-strapped cities higher returns. At a
bail hearing on Dec. 17, Paul N. Murphy, an attorney for Mr.
Wymer, said that the missing $100 million resulted from
"trading losses" and weren't the result of any wrongdoing by
Mr. Wymer.