Enterprise:
   Some Firms Are Born to Alleviate the Ills of the World
   ---
   Social Causes Spur a Few Small Businesses
   To Turn a Profit, Then Share It
   ----
   By Udayan Gupta
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Mr. Muchnick is one of many nowadays using small business
to fulfill social goals. In Cambridge, Mass., Jason Clay runs
an enterprise that helps residents of the Amazon rain forest
boost their income and save the forest. In Hanover, N.H.,
Peter Martin publishes WorldWise, a newspaper for high school
students that aims to counteract youthful ignorance of world
affairs.
   These organizations often combine for-profit and
not-for-profit organizational forms and styles. For funding,
they tap sources from private foundations and corporations to
government agencies. Instead of handing over their profit to
investors, they share their surplus with suppliers and
employees or simply plow it back into the company.
   Some of the enterprises are growing and improving their
own business methods. After a decade of all-purpose
recycling, Mr. Muchnick's R2B2 has benefitted by narrowing
its scope. It now concentrates on processing large numbers of
plastic containers and selling the recycled bulk to big
manufacturers. It also markets materials processed by
recycling operations in nine states. Linking smaller local
recycling businesses into a national marketing scheme gave it
more power in the marketplace, Mr. Muchnick says. The
narrower focus has boosted average monthly sales to about
$300,000 from $90,000 two years ago and has brought R2B2 to
the break-even point, he adds.
   Other enterprises venture farther afield. When Dr. Clay
sells imported brazil nuts to businesses in the U.S., he
establishes one very important condition: The company that
markets or uses the nuts must agree to share the profits with
producers in the Amazon rain forest.
   "We are trying to develop ways in which the people in the
rain forest can conserve their resources and make a decent
living," says Dr. Clay, a 41-year-old anthropologist, who
heads Cultural Survival Enterprises, a Cambridge, Mass.,
concern that trades rain forest products. "If they can't make
a decent living off what they harvest they will be forced to
degrade the forest," he says.
   Dr. Clay in 1980 became the research director of Cultural
Survival Inc., a nonprofit organization formed to help
protect the rights of indigenous peoples, including those in
the Amazon. Later, the group decided to create Cultural
Survival Enterprises, a trading company that would "use the
market to change the market," Dr. Clay says. "It wasn't
enough just to talk about protecting rights," he adds.
   One of the biggest problems farmers and other producers in
the rain forest face is that they don't get the best prices
for their products, Dr. Clay explains. To eke out a
subsistence living, they often must harvest more than is
environmentally sound. In the worst of situations, they sell
out to miners and loggers. "We needed to find a way to help
the groups get a better price for what they were selling."
   So Cultural Survival Enterprises helped rain forest
producers organize selling cooperatives to market their
products. And the organization itself began to buy the
products to sell to companies in the U.S.
   Cultural Survival Enterprises also is trying to introduce
new business strategies, such as diversifying the use of a
product to reduce market risk, says Dr. Clay. The concern,
for example, is developing uses for the cashew fruit which
normally gets thrown away after the nut is taken out. It is
developing uses for the cashew juice in blended fruit juices
and concentrates.
   Collectors of brazil nuts working with the organization in
the Western Amazon last year received $1.2 million from sales
of the nuts, an increase of $600,000 from the previous year.
Cultural Survival says it expects to arrange sales of about
$3 million this year, up 150% from its sales last year of
$1.2 million. To further boost Cultural Survival's trading
efforts, the John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation
committed $1 million in loans in December.
   Other projects focus on education. In 1984, journalist
Peter Martin started SouthNorth News Service, a nonprofit
news concern, to help journalists living in other countries,
especially developing nations, to write about their community
and environment. The MacArthur Foundation supports the
project.
   Mr. Martin then decided to start WorldWise, a newspaper
that aims to make a profit and is directed at high school
students. "I wanted to give them a broader perspective on the
world. Many of them seem more interested in their cars and
bodies than the world around them," he says.
   Each issue of WorldWise is built around a single theme,
chosen by the newspaper's own editorial board and reflecting
teacher suggestions. Mr. Martin, a former Time magazine
correspondent and publishing executive, then recruits veteran
editors (many of them former colleagues) to come to Hanover
for three months and edit that one issue.
   WorldWise currently reaches only about 5,000 students,
"small by Time Inc. standard," Mr. Martin acknowledges.
Aiming for 100,000 readers by 1996, he has developed a
marketing package that he sends to social sciences teacher
meetings nationally.
   Even though WorldWise now relies almost entirely on grants
and loans, Mr. Martin knows he will have to develop a
full-fledged, self-supporting business. "We have to produce a
product that people want to buy and at a price they are
prepared to buy," he says. If WorldWise can't become
self-supporting, he says, "it just means we are not filling a
need and we'll just have to go away."