Advertising:
   Madison Avenue
   Stalks Today's
   Archetypal Male
   ----
   By Laura Bird
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Hulk Hogan, the huge and well-sculpted professional
wrestler, was captured painting a sunset at the beach in a
current spot for Right Guard antiperspirant. Such an oddball
creative tactic may be comic inspiration -- but it also
crystallizes the confusion.
   Pat Cunningham, creative director of Ayer New York, which
created the ad, says the Right Guard campaign, called
"Animals," casts well-known tough guys in uncharacteristic
poses to reach a "rough-and-tumble audience" of men. "Even
animals have to go out in polite society," he says. "We
wanted to show that even Hulk Hogan is a sensitive human
being underneath."
   Some marketing experts say one problem is trying to divide
the male population into just two extremes -- the sensitive,
enlightened nonsexist and the girl-watching, sports-talking
Joe Sixpack. Another dilemma: Women still buy many of the
products used by men, and so the main message must appeal to
them.
   Consider the infantile husband in a recent commercial for
Robitussin cold remedy: He can't manage the house and kids
for even one day while his wife is sick. "Men are always
portrayed as the dolt," agrees Ayer's Mr. Cunningham, who
nonetheless thinks it's an effective pitch to women. "Their
wives always have to rescue them. I've never seen a
storyboard yet where the husband was able to do something for
himself." The recent commercial is from WPP Group's Scali
McCabe Sloves.
   Even the rare enlightened Dad is utilized to appeal to
female consumers' fantasies as much as to men themselves. A
recent Motrin ad features a man who, upon arriving home from
the office, immediately administers the pain-reliever to his
wife and gives their child a bath. The typical Motrin
customer: a woman 24 to 44 years old.
   "The idea was to give the guy credit for having a clue
that there might be some products out there he would be
interested in," says Susan Smith, managing director of the
New York office of Hill, Holliday, Connors, Cosmopulos, which
created the Motrin ad. She adds that the Motrin ad was
created to appeal to both men and women.
   Playboy recently commissioned a survey from the Roper
Organization of men's habits and found them to be
"increasingly concerned with the home and child-rearing,"
says publisher Michael Perlis.
   The study, obviously tailored in part to attract
advertisers, found that among men 18 to 29 years old, 58%
went shopping for groceries in the past weekend. Some 38%
went shopping at a mall, 25% shopped for clothes and 20%
shopped for fun. "Men shop to buy," Mr. Perlis says. "They
want to bring home the beast."
   But even he offers the contradictory message that
marketers can't lose sight of what he terms "the man thing"
-- that guys will still respond to sports, sex and grooming
no matter how sensitive they strive to be, he says.
   And so advertisers must tiptoe along a tight rope. Tatham
RSCG, the Chicago unit of Paris agency Euro RSCG, had to
define the Nineties Man for client Procter  Gamble in a new
campaign for the venerable aftershave brand Old Spice. The
old ads hadn't been seen in eight years but still are among
television's most memorable: "Mariner Man" cruises through
port, whistling a familiar jingle and attracting stares from
lovely lasses. As he escorts one away, he tosses an Old Spice
bottle to an envious nerd.
   Tatham kept the basic plot intact, set the scene at the
beach -- and got rid of the nerd. "The spot isn't so much
about passing along his male potion," says Tatham senior
partner Mary Baglivo. "The woman is attracted to him for who
he is."
   Bugle Boy Industries, in Simi Valley, Calif., aimed for
both sides of the male psyche in two spots from agency DDB
Needham. For 16- to 20-year olds, the agency created a
60-second spot filled with shots of sexy women trying on
men's Bugle Boy jeans. A subtitled message in the ad reads,
"Attention all guys. First the bad news. Bugle Boy is
demanding we show their new Color Denims in this commercial.
Now the good news. Nobody said we had to put them on men."
   But the same company targets the 25-plus crowd with a spot
that pokes fun at male bonding and makes the more domestic
guy look cool. Three golf buddies pity a fourth for staying
home with his wife. Yet steamy shots of the couple frolicking
seductively at home show they're having a fine time without
the boys.
   The spot is a none-too-subtle poke at Bugle Boy's
archrival, Dockers from Levi Strauss, whose ads turned male
bonding into a fashion occasion. Bugle Boy's agency, the Los
Angeles office of Omnicom Group's DDB Needham, found that in
more than half of all purchases of men's clothing, a wife or
girlfriend influences the purchase or literally does the
buying.
   "We knew we couldn't fight on (Dockers's) ground," says
Mark Monteiro, co-creative director of the Los Angeles
office. "The obvious thing is to look at their commercials
and say, `Where are the women?' "
   Dockers itself has changed its ads, known for showing
models' behinds and their manly repartee. In the new campaign
from the San Francisco office of Foote, Cone  Belding, the
ads are lush musical appeals to the aesthetic side of men.
   Some experts argue the New Man of the '90s may be just a
facade. As two-worker households become the norm of married
life, the gap between men and women in the time they spend on
household chores is narrowing -- but only because women clean
less. "It's not that men are picking up the slack," says Dr.
Barbara Melber, a sociologist with the Battelle Seattle
Research Center, a nonprofit institute. "The bottom line is,
houses are dirtier."
   Since the mid-1960s, men have significantly increased the
time spent on childcare. But they contribute only slightly
more when it comes to the chores, says Dr. Melber. Men report
they are most likely to help with food-shopping and meal
preparation and least likely to do the dishes and laundry.
   In a report called "Man or Caveman?" by British ad agency
Burkitt Weinreich Bryant, a divergence emerges between what
men say and what they do. Men talk a good game when it comes
to household chores and child care, but in only 4% of British
households do men have the main responsibility for household
cleaning. Sixty percent of men interviewed agreed that child
care is an equal responsibility for husbands and wives -- yet
only 2% said they look after the kids when they are sick.
   "During research men will spout all kinds of stuff," says
Simon Silvester, an agency account director. When a woman
leads an automobile focus group, men talk about wanting
safety features and leg room, he says. But when a man leads
the discussion, "it's `I just want something I can accelerate
at traffic lights.'" He concludes: "A lot of men are going in
for this New Man image, but deep down they're all the same."
   ---
   Isuzu's New Campaign
                                                                                                       

   In a sharp departure from its famous Joe Isuzu ads,
American Isuzu Motors unveiled its first campaign since
moving its $90 million account to Goodby, Berlin 
Silverstein in August. The auto maker is an affiliate of
Isuzu Motors Ltd., Japan.
   The series of heart-tugging and humorous vignettes for the
Trooper, set to break March 15, show what Goodby creative
director Richard Silverstein calls "humanistic" views of the
vehicle.
   The new look is meant to "demonstrate that Isuzu is a
responsible company," says Ron Dusenberry, the company's
national advertising manager. "Joe Isuzu was wonderful for
getting attention for the company, but he did nothing for
building a brand character," Mr. Silverstein says, taking a
shot at the car maker's previous agency that had created that
campaign, Della Femina McNamee, New York.
   In one spot, a heroic father and his small son navigate a
blizzard in a Trooper. In a lighter spot, a husband who
refuses to ask for directions and his irritated wife get
hopelessly lost in their Trooper. A third spot stars the
world's biggest pot-hole. Goodby is a unit of Omnicom Group.
   ---
   1991 TV Revenue
                                                                                                       

   Television advertising revenue declined 5.2% to $21.4
billion in 1991, with the national syndication market showing
the only growth, the Television Bureau of Advertising said.
   Revenue from nationally syndicated advertising, including
News Corp.'s Fox network, increased 16.6% to $1.9 billion,
according to year-end analysis of Arbitron/ MediaWatch data
by the bureau. Network revenue declined 6.7% to $9.5 billion.
Spot revenue was down 9.2% to $5.2 billion, and local ad
revenue was off 4.6% to $5 billion.
   In the fourth quarter, total revenue declined 3.8% to $6.1
billion; national syndication rose 9.1% to $500 million;
network revenue fell 5.6% to $2.9 billion; spot revenue was
down 5.5% to $1.5 billion; and local revenue declined 2.3% to
$1.4 billion.
   ---
   Ad Notes. . .
                                                                                                       

   HASBRO: Hasbro Inc., the nation's largest toy-maker,
consolidated an estimated $90 million in media-buying with
two of its New York agencies: Griffin Bacal and Grey
Advertising. The two will continue to handle creative
assignments for Hasbro brands, as will the company's two
other agencies, Jordan, McGrath, Case  Taylor and
Kidvertiser.
   HANES: Sara Lee Corp.'s Hanes division said it had signed
actress Phylicia Rashad and model Carol Alt to appear in new
ads for Hanes Her Way apparel. The new campaign was created
by Interpublic Group's Lintas and its Winston-Salem, N.C.,
unit Long, Haymes  Carr.
   GREY: Grey Advertising, New York, consolidated its
business-to-business advertising accounts into a new unit,
Grey Business Worldwide. Earlier this week, Grey won
Lexington, Mass., Raytheon Co.'s $5 million appliance
account.