Movies:
   Studios Seek Box-Office Boost by Lobbying for Oscars
   ----
   By Laura Landro
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
To try to change that, Disney is bombarding academy
members with screening invitations and papering trade
magazines with ads. The ads draw heavily on critics'
assessments of the film as one of the year's best and
describe the movie as "the most beautiful love story ever
told."
   But "Beauty" is still a long shot. A Las Vegas oddsmaker
has already put even odds on "Bugsy" and "JFK" for the award,
and more than a half-dozen other films are in the running,
including "Silence of the Lambs," which was released earlier
in the year, "Prince of Tides," and "Grand Canyon." The
academy will announce its nominations Feb. 19, and make its
awards March 30.
   The value of the critical kudos aside, an Oscar is money
in the bank for a movie. In the past, many films nominated
for best picture made the largest share of their ticket sales
after the nomination, and analysts calculate that best
picture can add more than $30 million to a movie's domestic
gross. Moreover, Oscars carry their cachet to foreign
theaters and subsequent markets like videocassette and cable.
   This year, that extra cash is more critical than ever to
some of the big contenders. Studios overspent on production
and marketing for many of the 1991 film crop, and a number of
the candidates are films that have won considerable acclaim
but aren't big commercial successes yet. Last weekend, for
example, box-office sales for "Bugsy" and "Prince of Tides"
fell 32%, while "JFK" dropped 31% and "Grand Canyon" fell
25%.
   Baseline Inc., which compiles weekend box-office
estimates, attributes the decline partly to the loss of male
audiences to the Super Bowl; another potential Oscar
contender, "Fried Green Tomatoes," which appeals largely to
women, went from a handful of theaters to 673 screens and
came in second in the market with a $5 million gross.
   "Beauty and the Beast " is a notable exception; on top of
its rave reviews, the movie is breaking all records for an
animated film. Though its business is tapering off on a
week-to-week basis, the movie is expected to pass the $100
million mark at the box office next weekend.
   Disney is also seeking best director and best screenplay
awards for "Beauty," and hyping the fact that the movie won
the award for best picture in the musical or comedy category
at the Golden Globes, the foreign press awards.
   "Bugsy," from Sony Corp.'s Tri-Star Pictures, won the
Golden Globe award for best picture in the drama category;
Mike Medavoy, chairman of Tri-Star Pictures, notes that 11
films that won in that category in the Globes went on to win
best picture from the academy. Tri-Star is pulling out all
the stops to promote "Bugsy" for a number of categories,
including the best picture, actor, actress and director
awards. In addition to the usual ads, screenings and tapes,
the company produced a glossy "Bugsy" brochure for academy
members.
   The movie could use a boost; "Bugsy," starring Warren
Beatty and Annette Bening, has won many rave reviews but
taken in only about $37 million since its release last month.
Mr. Medavoy insists the movie cost $32 million to produce and
not $40 million as widely reported. Still, since the studio
gets an average of half of the box-office take, the movie
needs to do better. Mr. Medavoy is confident that Bugsy "is
the front-runner to win best picture," and he contends that
rival "JFK" is too controversial to win the award.
   Warner Bros., the Time Warner unit that produced "JFK,"
obviously doesn't agree. The controversy is certainly selling
tickets; the movie passed the $50 million mark over the
weekend. But the studio is concerned that director Oliver
Stone's challenge to the official version of the
assassination of President Kennedy has gotten far more
publicity for its content than for its performances,
direction or technical quality as a film.
   Warner is holding many special screenings for academy
members on both coasts, pitching for every award from best
screenplay and best cinematography to best makeup. In an
unusual move, it is asking for best supporting actor
nominations for 11 of the actors, including Ed Asner, Kevin
Bacon, John Candy, Tommy Lee Jones, Jack Lemmon and Walter
Matthau.
   Mr. Friedman, however, says Warner is not "overspending"
to promote "JFK" to academy members. Indeed, overall spending
on direct advertising is down, according to Variety, which
reported last week that studio ad spending in trade
publications to promote Oscar nominations has dropped by as
much as 33% from commitments made in December. The big ad
dollars, Variety said, are being concentrated on a smaller
number of films.
   Studios are also putting their efforts into more direct
pitches to the academy. Disney, for example, held special
screenings of a work-in-progress film on the making of
"Beauty and the Beast." On behalf of Barbra Streisand's
"Prince of Tides," Mark Canton, the new president of Sony's
Columbia Pictures unit, sent letters to academy members
asking them to recognize Ms. Streisand's achievements as a
filmmaker. "We made a major point of the fact that the
academy has rarely recognized women directors," he says.
   Mr. Canton also made efforts on behalf of a more
controversial Columbia film, "Boyz N' the Hood," one of the
more critically acclaimed recent films about young urban
blacks. Though it had finished its theatrical run, Columbia
re-released it recently in about 400 theaters, and Mr. Canton
sent videocassettes -- not yet available to the public -- to
academy members.
   Studios are pitching a number of other films for the best
picture nomination. Columbia is pushing the little-known "The
Inner Circle," Disney has made its pitch for "Billy Bathgate"
and "The Doctor," and troubled MGM-Pathe Communications Co.
has scraped together enough ad dollars to lobby for "Thelma 
Louise" and "Rush." The Academy often nominates surprise dark
horses and smaller, artier films; independent producers of
such movies are pitching their wares as well, including
Samuel Goldwyn Co.'s "Black Robe" and Miramax Films' "Hear My
Song."
   The Academy has often nominated extremely violent films,
such as last year's "Goodfellas," for best picture but far
less frequently handed them the actual award. Extreme
violence may work against "Silence of the Lambs" from Orion
Pictures Corp., for example.
   But most agree the real surprise would be a nomination for
"Beauty." If ever there were a film to break the unspoken
taboo against animated films, some reason, this is it. On the
other hand, notes John Krier, president of Exhibitor
Relations Inc., a box-office analysis concern, "I don't think
the Academy is going to go for itthey are too in the mold and
too welltrained."