LEISURE  ARTS -- On Sports:
   It's Not `the Bird,' It's `Turk'
   ----
   By Frederick C. Klein
In his young life of 24 years, the tall (6-foot-2),
dark-haired, bright-eyed Turk, a native of Pittsfield, Mass.,
has gotten used to a number of things, many of which he
performs each inning when he takes the mound to pitch. For
instance, he insists on picking the baseball up from the
ground before he begins his warm-up tosses, and if someone
throws him the ball he will drop it so the routine will be
preserved.
   He won't stand on the pitcher's mound while his catcher is
standing; if the catcher must stand -- say, to throw to
second before the start of an inning -- Turk will squat. Only
after the catcher resumes his squat will Turk arise.
   After his warm-up throws, Turk will circle
counterclockwise to behind the mound and, briefly, fold his
hands and close his eyes in prayer. Then he will point to his
center-fielder, who is expected to point or wave in return.
   Approaching the mound again, he will stoop and trace the
sign of the cross three times in the dirt. Then -- and only
then -- will he face the menacing world in the form of the
opposing hitter.
   And that is just his on-the-mound shtick. There is other
stuff, too, which will be discussed later. Suffice it to say
for now that Wendell is one unusual dude, and if he can pitch
with success in the Major Leagues he could be the biggest
thing since, well, Mark "The Bird" Fidrych, who fussed and
fidgeted through a memorable 19-win season with the 1976
Detroit Tigers before injuries brought him low.
   "Have I heard of Fidrych?" Wendell echoes. "Well, yeah,
people mention him to me, but I was pretty young when he
played and don't remember him too well. I don't do what I do
to imitate anybody, or to draw attention to myself. They're
just things I've gotten comfortable with over the years. If I
do something and then pitch well, it sticks in my head and I
keep doing it. That makes sense to me."
   So far, it has made sense to the perennially pitching-poor
Cubs, who make their spring-training base in this suburb of
Phoenix. In September, they sent a couple of veterans --
pitcher Mike Bielecki and catcher Damon Berryhill -- to the
Atlanta Braves for Wendell, then with the Braves' Triple-A
Richmond farm team, and Yorkis Perez, another minor-league
pitcher. Perez has since departed for Japan, leaving Wendell
as the sole Cubs fruit of that transaction. By the logic of
baseball, this should ensure him a long look this spring.
   His stats might have earned him that anyway. While
pitchers' minor-league won-lost records tend to be
misleading, he has produced the kind of strikeouts-to-walks
ratio (almost 2 1/2 to 1) the big leagues look for since the
Braves signed him for their Pulaski, Tenn., rookie-league
team in 1988. Last season the wins came, too. He was 11-3,
with a 2.56 earned run average, for Greenville, S.C., of the
Double-A Southern League, and while he was 0-2 in a
late-season stint at Richmond, he struck out 18 batters in 21
innings there.
   He did even better with Santurce in the Puerto Rican
Winter League, posting a 7-1 record and 0.94 ERA, and being
named the league's best pitcher. He attributes that showing
largely to the development of a change-up pitch he acquired
at Greenville.
   It is that change-up that has endeared him particularly to
Billy Connors, the Cubs pitching coach. "It's a really good
pitch -- it makes his other pitches more effective," says
Connors. The coach notes that, with 20 pitchers vying for 11
spots, Wendell is hardly a shoo-in to make the Cubs'
opening-day roster. Moreover, some elbow soreness that's a
carryover from his active winter has limited his appearances
this spring.
   But Connors adds: "What I've seen of him so far I've
liked. He's got good fundamentals and he's a great
competitor. As for that stuff he does before he throws, if it
doesn't bother him it doesn't bother me. Once he starts to
pitch, he works plenty fast enough. And it doesn't seem like
a put-on; he's that way off the field, too."
   Indeed, Wendell needs no prompting to list his other
quirks, be they uniformed or civilian. There's his no-socks
thing -- "I never wear 'em off the field, even with a tux at
my sister's wedding" -- and his habit of wearing two watches
on the same wrist. If he eats at a restaurant and pitches
well later that day, he'll eat there again before his next
start. He brushes his teeth between innings of every game he
pitches. That last item was added when he showed up at a
college game with a bad taste in his mouth from eating
pepperoni.
   Wendell says that, while he didn't tailor his pre-pitching
routine for any reason besides focusing his own
concentration, he's not unaware of the stir it causes. "My
teammates have always laughed and enjoyed it, and I think the
fans have, too; last year at Greenville, people'd be calling
the team so they could buy tickets when I pitched," he says.
"I've been told I irk some hitters, but that's OK."
   He notes that in his first pro year at Pulaski, his
manager asked him to try pitching without his customary
rigmarole. He complied, fared poorly, and vowed never to do
it again.
   "I got knocked around in that game, but the worst parts
were that it wasn't fun, and it wasn't me," he says. "I
decided right there that I'd either make it in this game the
way I am, or take up another line of work. I mean, people may
think what I do is weird, but I think going against your own
nature is weirder."