Short Interest
   In OTC Stocks
   Declines 5.3%
   ---
   Fall in Latest Month Comes
   Despite Shares' Surge;
   Centocor Heads the List
   ----
   By Anne Newman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Short sellers, who plan to profit by a stock's decline,
borrow stock to sell in hopes that they can buy the shares
back later at a lower price for return to the lender. Many
correctly bet last fall that the small-stock rally couldn't
be sustained: Short interest reached record levels on Nov.
15, the same day that smaller stocks plunged as the Dow Jones
Industrial Average nosedived 120 points.
   But short sellers have continued to pare their bets,
although smaller shares have resolutely resumed their upward
climb -- the Nasdaq Composite Index has surged nearly 16.6%
since the Federal Reserve Board slashed short-term interest
rates on Dec. 20.
   For the month ended in mid-January, short interest in the
largest OTC stocks that trade on the National Market System
fell 5.3% to 315 million shares, while short interest in
smaller OTC stocks fell 5.4% to 29 million shares, according
to the National Association of Securities Dealers.
   Highflying biotechnology stocks remained favorite targets
of short sellers. Centocor again topped the list of companies
with the largest short positions, as short interest in the
company edged up to 5.9 million shares. Short interest in
rival Xoma, which is locked in a patent dispute with Centocor
over a treatment for a lethal blood infection, eased to 3.6
million shares.
   Biotechnology leader Amgen reported a 12% rise in short
interest to 3.4 million shares: its shares climbed steadily
since mid-December to a 52-week high of 78 1/4 before easing
to Friday's close of 70 1/4. Short interest in Genzyme jumped
61% to 1.4 million shares; Genzyme's shares also soared in
the Christmas rally. The Cambridge, Mass., company Thursday
won orphan-drug status from the Food and Drug Administration
for a drug it is developing to treat cystic fibrosis.
   Short sellers flocked to some lofty computer-related
stocks such as Intel and Cisco Systems, which both led the
year-end rally. The short position in Intel jumped 89% to 1.5
million shares; the semiconductor maker's stock has soared to
new heights since mid-January, when the company reported
robust fourth-quarter earnings. The short interest in Cisco
Systems, a maker of computer networking products, jumped
nearly 21% to 3.2 million shares.
   Newly public CompUSA, a Dallas operator of "superstores,"
reported a short position of about 415,000 shares.
   Among companies reporting large declines in short interest
were computer-related AST Research, Quantum Corp. and Oracle
Systems. Among financial institutions, Union Bank reported a
drop in short interest of more than 1.9 million shares. In
December, the Supreme Court ruled in favor of the San
Francisco bank in a case involving ZZZZ Best Co. The high
court said that Union Bank could keep two interest payments
made by ZZZZ Best before that company declared itself
insolvent under Chapter 7 of the federal Bankruptcy Code.
   Although a substantial short position reflects heavy
speculation that a stock's price will decline, some investors
consider an increase in short interest bullish because the
borrowed shares eventually must be bought back.
   And some short interest doesn't reflect any opinion on the
stock at all but shows up as part of another strategy, such
as arbitrage or dividend capture. Traders tied a big jump in
the short position of the Class A shares in Comcast, a
Philadelphia cable television concern, to arbitrage between
the company's Class A and Class K shares.
   The NASD, the self-regulatory agency that operates the
Nasdaq computerized system on which more than 4,600 OTC
issues trade, compiles short-interest data in two categories:
the approximately 2,600, and generally biggest, Nasdaq stocks
that trade on the National Market System; and the other
2,000, generally smaller, stocks that don't.
   Among larger issues, short interest in 2,369 National
Market System stocks as of mid-January was 315,003,835
shares, compared with 332,549,730 shares in 2,351 issues for
the period ended in mid-December.
   Short interest in 1,151 smaller issues was 29,020,343
shares for the period ended in mid-January, compared with
30,686,544 in 1,187 issues a month earlier.
   By another measure -- the short interest ratio -- short
interest isn't as great a potential influence on the Nasdaq
market as it has been during previous periods. The National
Market System's short-interest ratio in mid-January eased to
1.50 from 2.32 a month earlier and is well below the record
short-interest ratio of 3.34 set in November 1990. The
short-interest ratio for the smaller issues rose, however, to
0.98 from last month's average of 0.90.
   The ratio -- the number of trading days at the market's
average volume that would be required to cover the total
short interest position -- is a measure of negative trader
sentiment. Some analysts suggest, however, that the ratio has
weakened in value as an indicator because options and other
products can be used to hedge short positions.
   The following tables show the over-the-counter issues in
which a short interest position of at least 50,000 shares
existed at mid-January, or in which the short position had
changed by at least 25,000 shares since mid-December (see
accompanying tables -- WSJ Jan. 27, 1992).