Complaint Line:
   Some ATT Clients
   Gripe That Cost Cuts
   Are Hurting Service
   ---
   Employees, Too, Complain
   -- About Job Insecurity
   And Multiple Transfers
   ---
   The Downside of Downsizing
   ----
   By John J. Keller
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Such is the ill will ATT is risking, among key employees
and among customers, as it pursues a streamlining and
downsizing of rare proportions. The danger, say many who
follow the company closely, is that in its determination to
become efficient and flexible ATT may be jeopardizing the
reputation for reliability that is one of its central assets.
   These are tumultuous times at ATT as it struggles to
fight off aggressive competitors and adjust to the new
telephone era. Its efforts since the forced telephone
divestiture eight years ago have included wave upon wave of
layoffs and transfers -- eliminating more than 100,000 jobs,
or a fourth of its payroll -- and a decentralizing that
created 20 separate operating units.
   Many investors and industry analysts praise the results.
Once belittled for its lumbering ways, ATT now runs
businesses that are becoming more cost-competitive and agile.
It has halted losses in its consumer phone business and has
taken radical steps to reduce the heavy losses in office
phone systems. It has stanched its computer red ink by buying
the profitable computer company NCR. Meanwhile, ATT has
launched new businesses such as the Universal credit card and
the credit leasing unit ATT Capital Corp. that are growing
robustly.
   But despite these efforts, ATT yesterday reported a drop
in earnings for last year and the fourth quarter, on revenue
that was essentially flat. Chairman Robert Allen said the
trends at ATT are favorable regardless of the report. But
analysts such as Michael Kennedy of Arthur D. Little say much
of the improvement at ATT reflects not new business but its
steep cost cuts, and he warns that "you can't downsize
forever. Sooner or later, you must find new sources of
revenue."
   That won't be made easier if service quality is declining,
as some customers think it is. A typical complaint comes from
David Chatman, UAL Corp.'s telecommunications manager. At
UAL's Denver facility, he says, "ATT sent inexperienced
technicians who had to ask our people how to get into ATT's
own computer. That type of incompetence you don't need."
Dissatisfied with ATT's equipment maintenance, UAL did some
switching of its own in late 1990. It hired InterWest
Communications Corp., of Denver, to work on its phone
systems.
   Sometimes the technicians who do show up aren't really
from ATT, annoyed customers say. In Columbus, Ohio, "ATT
subcontracted work on our system to another company that
didn't know what it was doing," says Dominic Caminiti,
service director at Quality Chevrolet, a car dealer. "Their
mistake ended up costing us about $1,500. . . . If I'm paying
for an expensive ATT maintenance contract, I should be
getting an ATT technician who knows my system. If I buy
another system, I don't think I'll buy ATT again. I don't
feel like a valued customer."
   ATT's long-distance network, after decades of
reliability, has failed four times in two years. An outage
last September cut voice communications in the Northeast,
hobbled Wall Street and closed down the air-traffic-control
system on the East Coast. The company itself blamed three of
the four failures on worker and management carelessness.
   ATT hasn't any comment on specific complaints like Mr.
Chatman's and Mr. Caminiti's. Jerre Stead, president of ATT
Business Communications Systems, says, "I'm well aware of
customer concerns. . . . ATT has the largest direct service
force. We're not doing any outside contracting of
consequence, {only in} some remote areas of the country."
   Mr. Allen says, "Most of our people are aggressively
serving customers and winning customers, working flat out."
   Few hard figures on service complaints exist at either the
federal or state level. New York's Public Service Commission
says MCI Communications Corp. and U.S. Sprint Communications
Co. still draw many more complaints than ATT, but the gap is
narrowing. Complaints against ATT edged up last year to 0.29
per 100,000 customers from 0.25 in 1990. MCI scored 1.82 in
1991, vs. 3.1 the year before; Sprint had 1.18 in 1991 vs.
2.04 in 1990.
   Real or perceived, ATT's service problems are a benefit
to ATT's rivals, suggests Stephen Sazegari,
telecommunications analyst at Dataquest Inc. in San Jose,
Calif. "ATT's service is slipping, leading corporate
customers to competitive carriers such as MCI," Mr. Sazegari
says. While ATT is slowing the overall erosion of its
long-distance market share, he estimates that in the giant
corporate long-distance arena, ATT's share fell to 61% last
year from 80% three years ago. And he predicts it will slip
to 55% by 1993. (However, the market itself is growing.)
   In the equipment area, Dataquest says rival Northern
Telecom Ltd. has overtaken ATT as the lead supplier of
telecommunications switching equipment to the Bell operating
companies and to business users. "ATT has to change its
entire approach to service," Mr. Sazegari believes.
"Phone-company customers in particular are not happy with
their delivery of software or level of service."
   Nimble rivals such as MCI, Northern Telecom and Japanese
equipment makers have been relentless in their pursuit of
ATT customers, spending huge sums on ads that target giant
ATT. And ATT has counterattacked with a billion-dollar ad
program claiming its rivals are inferior. Stephen Dexter, an
executive of Kemper Financial Services Inc., says that "with
long-distance now a commodity business, if ATT isn't
servicing its customer base it has a serious long-term
problem. MCI and others will continue grabbing disgruntled
customers."
   Some suggest that the service complaints are related to a
change in the way ATT prices are regulated. Until about four
years ago, the FCC allowed ATT to earn a certain return on
investment. But it switched to setting price caps, a method
that helps keep customer prices down but encourages the
company to cut costs in order to widen the margin.
   Another possible factor is the regional consolidation ATT
has carried out. Mr. Kennedy of Arthur D. Little says some of
his clients don't like "ATT's consolidating of its network
management into major hubs," a move they think results in
"not enough local contact." His consulting clients, which
include defense contractors, utilities and banks, also say
ATT "doesn't have enough service people," Mr. Kennedy says.
"I'm hearing a lot of complaints about how ATT's service
quality is slipping because of cutbacks."
   Charles Anderson, who is an ATT technician and union
official in Los Angeles, says customers who need speedy
service may be inconvenienced because of the cutbacks. In
1984, when ATT was broken up, its district technical force
in California had 10 community groups of technicians, called
"garages." Now, says Mr. Anderson, "we're down to one garage
per district, and my average driving time between jobs is a
half hour to 1 1/2 hours; it used to be 10 to 15 minutes."
   The service complaints don't surprise Brian Moir, chief
counsel for the International Communications Association,
which represents 700 of the nation's largest communications
customers. "If you look at the number of ATT employees
involved in long-distance service, their numbers are
constantly shrinking and they're in areas of critical concern
to corporate users," he says. "We're not talking about the
handholding marketing types, but the actual people who are
constructing and maintaining customer networks. ATT needs
these veterans, not the kiddie corps." Mr. Moir says his
organization is hearing "higher and higher levels" of
complaints from ICA members about ATT's service.
   Could the service complaints be related to ATT worker
morale? Measuring this is always difficult. Any company has
at least a few disgruntled employees, and companies that must
adapt to a changing technological and business climate are
likely to have quite a few. But ATT's own studies show
unusual work-force dislocation.
   One of ATT's labor practices is to notify workers that
they could be taken off the payroll unless they can find
another position within the organization on their own. At
least 43% of ATT's non-management employees have received
such notices, says Jeffrey Keefe, a Rutgers University
management professor who collaborated on an ATT-financed
survey of employee attitudes about the cutbacks. Those
surveyed said they had averaged 2 1/2 such "surplusing"
notices. "I was shocked," Prof. Keefe says.
   Jack B. Grubman, a telecommunications analyst at
PaineWebber Inc. who used to work at ATT himself, considers
morale a serious problem for the company. ATT employees are
"angry and frustrated, and it's hurting quality," he says.
"Morale stinks. ATT has to turn the situation around."
   Especially beleaguered were ATT workers who had been
transferred from a closed-down facility in San Leandro,
Calif., to a new high-tech warehouse, maintenance and service
center in Memphis, Tenn. The new center was to service big
corporate clients; with Federal Express Corp.'s main hub
nearby, phone equipment could be shipped efficiently
anywhere. But after the merger, ATT said it would shut the
operation and move much of the work to its new acquisition
NCR, which operates a neighboring facility.
   "ATT people were recruited from within {the company} two
years ago, brought in because of their expertise and told
that they would be here for at least five to seven years,"
says Kenneth D. Bishop, a shipping clerk in the Memphis plant
and a representative for the Communications Workers of
America. "They didn't even make it one year. People feel
stabbed in the back."
   Adds John Webster, an ATT production manager in Memphis:
"A lot of us are saying, `The hell with the company.' Many
spouses, like my wife, gave up good-paying jobs to follow us
here. Management doesn't realize that when they close a
facility, they're also dealing with families." At ATT's
Denver network center, Leslie Hodgman, a communications
technician with 19 years at the company, says she always
wears a button with Chairman Allen's picture on it and a red
line through it. "We all do," she says. "He's the one we hate
the most."
   Mr. Allen is used to the ire directed at him. "It's not
unusual for everyone to focus on me as the bad guy. Do I like
it? Hell, no." But with better technology, he says, ATT
simply needs fewer workers. "We want to stay competitive and
protect the jobs of the 325,000 people who remain here," he
says.
   Workers concede that when ATT does dismiss employees, it
offers better severance benefits than most companies do, as
well as top-notch job counseling. When downsizing seemed to
have led to a mental-health crisis at some Texas facilities,
ATT quickly flew in experts to counsel employees, with the
union's help.
   As for complaints that continual office closings have
turned some ATT service technicians into high-tech migrant
workers, Mr. Allen acknowledges "some wrong moves" as ATT
has shrunk. "Those kinds of things are not happening now," he
contends.
   Yet the recent series of power outages has exposed
distinct flaws in ATT network management that are directly
attributable to cost-cutting. At its 52-story Thomas Street
center in lower Manhattan, ATT cut seven power technicians
from a staff of 10. ATT also began a "power shedding"
arrangement with Consolidated Edison Co. of New York under
which ATT agreed to switch to its own diesel generators a
couple of times a year in return for a rate discount to about
$8 per kilowatt hour from $20.
   At Con Edison's request on a sweltering day last
September, ATT switched to its own generators. But the
switchover damaged equipment that fed power to the switching
center, and its emergency batteries quickly ran down. Nobody
in the ATT facility heard or saw the alarms warning of the
power problem because a supervisor had taken his technicians
to power-alarm class, and because cost-cutting had left the
center insufficiently staffed.
   ATT said its own investigation showed shoddy maintenance
caused the alarms to malfunction. But workers at the facility
say a supervisor ordered employees to dismantle most of the
alarms. His reason: The workers were stretched thin by
cost-cutting, and he didn't want them distracted. Mr. Allen
now acknowledges that the alarms were dismantled, but he adds
that the "motivation wasn't some new work process. It was a
misjudgment."
   Harold W. Burlingame, ATT's senior vice president of
human resources, believes morale "probably reached a low
point in 1987. Since then, we have been in an upward trend in
the way {workers} look at the business. . . . We probably
have several thousand workers whose jobs have been preserved
through extraordinary means." Mr. Allen adds that the worst
of the cost-cutting "is behind us."
   That will be welcome news to customers like Steve Kennedy,
director of telecommunications for Southwest Airlines in
Dallas: "The problems we're having with ATT maintenance and
service are driving us to other vendors," he says. "It
appears ATT is getting spread pretty thin."
   ---
   Corrections  Amplifications
                                                                                                       

   A PAGE ONE ARTICLE about American Telephone  Telegraph
Co. on Friday incorrectly attributed a quotation to John
Webster, an ATT manager in Memphis, Tenn. The statement was
actually made by Kenneth D. Bishop, a subordinate of his. Mr.
Webster wasn't interviewed for the article.
   (WSJ Jan. 27, 1992)