Letters to the Editor:
   Anti-Abortion Centers: Truth Be Told
I called on the publishers of Yellow Page Telephone
Directories -- a primary source of confusing advertising
messages -- to establish new guidelines and rules for
advertising content and placement. Within seven weeks of the
hearing, the publishers' association responded with what I
believe are important new directives instructing their
members to print better, more explanatory subject headings,
and to peruse display-ad content more closely to eliminate
what are, at best, clever distortions. I expect these changes
to be in effect, nationwide, within two years, encompassing
98% of all Yellow Page directories. No one offering pregnancy
counseling or abortion services will be kept out of the
telephone book. They will merely have to tell the truth.
   Ms. Diemert thanked me for putting CPCs in the
"headlines." If centers affiliated with her organization made
news, however, Ms. Diemert has only the centers' directors,
and their ads, to bless.
   Rep. Ron Wyden (D., Ore.)
   Washington
   ---
   In the soothing tones and specious suppositions of Ms.
Diemert, women are encouraged and bribed with "free clothing
and other baby items" to produce unwanted children. Rather
than Ms. Diemert's claim to "unselfish, unmanipulative and
unconditional" concern for women, her views insult women by a
blockade of intelligent choice and doom many of them and
their children to lives of squalor.
   When will the puritanical take pity on the born before the
unborn? A right to be born, advocated in this article, often
precludes a right to a decent life. And when will the
troglodytes understand that reproductive freedom is economic
freedom for women?
   Barbara S. Mosbacher
   New York
   ---
   Hooray for Ms. Diemert and Crisis Pregnancy Centers. At
last we have an organization that addresses the needs of
women with problem pregnancies, acknowledges the morality of
the abortion decision, and speaks to the values of millions
of Americans alienated by the half-truths, propaganda and
rhetoric sounding from both the pro-life and pro-choice
camps.
   F. Vernon Chandler
   Editor
   The Universalist Herald
   Canon, Ga.