Washington Wire:
   A Special Weekly Report From
   The Wall Street Journal's
   Capital Bureau
   ----
   Compiled by Rich Jaroslovsky
Tsongas and Clinton both support the pact as long as there
are environmental restrictions. But Brown sees an opening,
attacking the pact -- and especially Clinton's support of it
-- as he campaigns through the Midwest. In Michigan, he
declares the "fast track" system making swift consideration
of the pact possible is "the No. 1 issue in this primary,"
and says of Clinton: "We're not going to let him slide off of
it."
   Meanwhile, GATT talks are in their death throes; the U.S.
can make few concessions, because a proposed pact has already
been criticized for hurting key constituencies in Southern
states.
                                                                                                       

   TSONGAS PULLS out all stops on a Michigan media blitz.
   Desperately needing a win, he pours $300,000 into TV spots
in advance of Tuesday's primary, figuring he has a better
shot than in Illinois' vote the same day. Tsongas's new ads
take dead aim at the character issue, saying he's "the exact
opposite of Bill Clinton . . . he tells the truth."
   While getting some financial help from Greek communities
in Chicago and Dearborn, Tsongas's money is drying up.
Meanwhile, Clinton expects an endorsement soon from Harkin,
though he is having a tougher time winning over Kerrey. And
his campaign heavily woos former key Kerrey fund-raiser Bob
Burkett.
                                                                                                       

   BUSH HOPES to "disengage" from Buchanan after next week's
primaries.
   Once the Michigan and Illinois primaries are out of the
way, Bush aides say they hope to be able to all but ignore
Buchanan. "I don't think there's anything to be gained by
talking about him any more," says Texas GOP Chairman
Frederick Meyer. But despite warnings from Nixon and others,
Bush seems unlikely to offer more aid for beleaguered Russia
until Buchanan bows out.
   Though short of cash, Buchanan has begun a $200,000
Michigan ad campaign with a spot branding
lobbyist-turned-Bush strategists Charles Black, James Lake
and Rich Bond as registered foreign agents. Bush retaliates
with tough new ads that attack the challenger for driving a
Mercedes.
   While Michigan's open GOP primary could theoretically help
Buchanan, the competitive Democratic primary leads neither
the Bush nor Buchanan camps to expect many crossovers.
                                                                                                       

   DIXON BREATHES easier in his Illinois Senate primary test
Tuesday. Though polls show him with less than a majority, his
two rivals are splitting the rest and spent a recent debate
sniping at each other instead of the incumbent. Chicago is
rife with rumors that pro-Dixon forces worked to keep one of
the other candidates from dropping out.
                                                                                                       

   CLINTON FAILS in an end-around effort to gain more support
among unpledged House "super-delegates." Arkansas Rep.
Anthony fails in a regional-caucus effort to push a slate of
delegates laden with junior, pro-Clinton members. Most
super-delegates refrain from endorsing Clinton, fearing more
damaging charges, but will fall in line if he becomes the
clear nominee.
                                                                                                       

   TEXAS GOP LEADERS plead with Bush's son George W. to urge
his father to fire budget chief Darman. But senior
administration officials insist Darman is staying, and even
GOP strategist Ed Rollins, no fan of Bush economic policies,
says canning the budget director would "look like panic."
                                                                                                       

   MUCH NOISE but little action is likely from Congress on
thrift asset sales. Lawmakers up for re-election from
depressed areas scream over Resolution Trust Corp. plans to
sell 39,000 properties by Sept. 30. But the real-estate
lobby, preoccupied with trying to win back favorable tax
treatment, is resigned to the quick sales to get the
government out of the business.
                                                                                                       

   INCUMBENTS SWEAT over disclosure of House Bank overdraft
records.
   Members scramble to blunt criticism with early
confessions. Among them are Democratic Rep. Wilson of Texas,
who says, "I called in the posse and gave myself up," and
California Republican Rep. Hunter. Thirty-six states still
have open filing deadlines, which means 241 lawmakers could
still face new challengers.
   Though GOP lawmakers pressed for full disclosure of check
overdrafting and Quayle hits the issue hard, the list of
wrongdoers is also likely to contain prominent Republicans --
including at least one Bush appointee. That will minimize the
partisan advantage. And some warn that the bank's records are
in such bad shape that much of the information may be
confusing or wrong.
   "You're going to see more chaos in the weeks ahead," says
GOP Rep. Klug.
                                                                                                       

   MINOR MEMOS: Risky symbolism? Yesterday Clinton visited a
factory that makes cheesecakes. . . . A New York city
councilman mails 100 packets of Brooklyn-made Sweet N' Low to
the White House to protest reports that Bush prefers the
saccharin sold in England. . . . Maturing Moonbeam? According
to the latest Wall Street Journal/NBC News poll, Jerry
Brown's strongest support comes from middle-aged,
upper-income males.