Economic View
   From Midwest
   Is Bullish for '92
   ---
   Experts Tell Stock Analysts
   Economy Is Better Off
   Than the Media Indicate
   ----
   By Ralph E. Winter
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
The economists indicated that improving economic prospects
justify the recent stock market rise, and a majority said the
outlook for stock prices is favorable for the rest of 1992.
   "The media have selected Chicken Little as their role
model," and portrayed the 1990-91 recession as more severe
than it really was, said David A. Bowers, chairman of the
banking and finance department at Case Western Reserve
University's Weatherhead School of Management. The recession
was concentrated on the East and West Coasts, where much of
the media has headquarters, he said, "and there's more
publicity when a junk-bond dealer is laid off than when a
steelworker loses his job."
   The other economists agreed that negative media reports
were a factor in reducing consumer confidence, which was a
major element in the slowdown that began last fall. However,
many of the big companies planning restructurings have
already announced them, they said. As a result, the flood of
negative economic news is likely to taper off and consumer
confidence will start to recover.
   "The business cycle hasn't died," and the economy is on
its way to recovery without further government action, Mr.
Bowers said. He said the best government policy for 1992
would be to let 366 days pass before acting. "Don't just do
something, stand there," he said.
   Most of the factors that caused the pause in the recovery
last fall have been corrected or soon will be, said Kenneth
T. Mayland, senior vice president and chief economist for
Society Bank. He said the Federal Reserve Board was too
cautious about lowering interest rates last spring and
summer, and that the money supply stopped growing last April.
More recently "the Fed got religion," and its more aggressive
policy has the money supply growing again, he said. He said
M-2, a broad measure of money supply, "is growing at a 3.4%
rate and the growth rate is accelerating."
   Also, the dollar rose 18.5% against a trade-weighted
package of currencies between February and July last year,
which slowed export sales somewhat, Mr. Mayland said. But the
dollar has fallen 12.5% since July 1, he said, which will
result in export growth of 4% to 6% this year, even if major
foreign economies slow down.
   A third factor retarding economic recovery was a 1991 tax
increase totaling about $50 billion, including higher
federal, state and local taxes, Mr. Mayland said. This year,
by contrast, there is likely to be a federal tax cut, he
said.
   With all three major policy factors positive, the economy
will be growing "in the 4% to 4.5% range" in the second half,
Mr. Mayland said.
   Theodore H. Tung, senior vice president and economist for
National City Bank, was the most conservative of the group.
He said the economy "will move sideways at best" in the 1992
first half, but will grow at a 2.5% to 3% annual rate in the
second half.
   Mr. Tung said continued job cuts at major corporations
will constrain both consumer purchasing power and consumer
confidence for some time yet. Major companies must
restructure to survive, he said, and that process won't end
soon. "Also, the defense industry is in decline," and nothing
is likely to change that. Finally, demographics are negative,
he said. A declining number of people in the
18-to-34-year-old age group will damp down sales of homes and
automobiles.
   Nonetheless, Mr. Tung predicted "a double digit rise" in
after-tax corporate profits this year.
   The economists said most of the decline in interest rates
has occurred, but that there probably will be some further
slide in both short-term and long-term rates over the next
few months. However, most were quite optimistic about stock
market prospects.
   Robert J. Stalla, special consultant to McDonald  Co.,
emphasized the importance of interest rate trends on stock
prices. Based on trading patterns of the last 30 years, he
said, the Standard  Poor's 500-stock index could range
between 394 and 475 during 1992, he said.
   That price range assumes that aggregate per-share earnings
for the SP 500 will rise about 11% this year, and that the
price-earnings ratio on the SP index stays within a range
that has prevailed the last 30 years in terms of its
relationship to the yield on three-month Treasury bills.
   Mr. Bowers was the only member of the panel to express
concern about inflation. "The inflation monster hasn't been
killed," he said, and it could be a problem a year from now.
Mr. Bowers said "1993 should be something of a boom year,"
that could trigger inflation "if we don't do something about
the government deficit."
   If interest rates begin to rise later next year as a
result, stock prices probably would drop, Mr. Bowers said.
   The other economists said inflation was likely to remain
in the 3% to 4% range, somewhat below the about 4.5%
prevailing rate during the late 1980s.