International:
   Germany Slides
   Into Recession,
   Sees Difficult '92
   ----
   By Terence Roth
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
But now even they are worrying aloud. Record interest
rates and double-digit 1992 wage demands by militant trade
unions could force the economy into a prolonged retreat at a
time when unified Germany needs all the financing power it
can get.
   The growing edginess in Bonn was enough to trigger a
cabinet rift last week over an Economics Ministry proposal to
cap civil servants' pay increases, considered a benchmark for
industry wage talks. A threatened steel strike and wide gap
between management and labor in other talks raise the
likelihood of rising labor tensions early this year.
   In German economic lexicology, recession is almost as
unutterable as inflation. Since 1989, "boom" was the only
word to describe how massive recovery programs for eastern
Germany pumped billions of marks into western German order
books.
   Yet after two years of rapid, heavily subsidized
expansion, western Germany's economy -- Europe's largest --
clearly has stalled. Unity-related tax increases, heavy
government borrowing, interest rate increases, flagging
exports and a ballooning welfare budget have taken their
toll.
   "We are in a recession now, and we won't emerge from it in
the first half of 1992," said Norbert Walter, chief economist
for Deutsche Bank AG. "Germans only speak about a recession
when it is over. And it will also be the case in
official-speak this time," he said.
   Western Germany's gross national product, its output of
goods and services, fell 0.5% in the second and third
quarters from the preceding periods, qualifying for the U.S.
definition that two consecutive periods of decline mean that
an economy is in recession. Many economists expect similar
quarter-to-quarter retreats for the fourth quarter of 1991
and the first period of 1992.
   German policy-makers focus on year-to-year GNP changes, at
least publicly. These continued to show gains in the second
half, largely carried by the momentum from a booming economy
in the first half. Yet the distinction could soon become
moot. Many economists say German GNP also began declining in
year-on-year terms beginning in the fourth quarter, a trend
seen holding until the second half of 1992.
   Orders to western Germany's manufacturing industry have
been declining since July, industrial output has fallen
steadily since September, industry inventories are piling up
and seasonally adjusted joblessness is on the rise.
   For now, the consensus is that Germany's recession will be
shallow and brief, particularly if an expected revival in the
U.S. economy generates new global demand by mid-1992.