Who's News:
   Northrop Severs
   Link to Retired
   Chairman Jones
   ----
   By Rhonda L. Rundle
   Staff Reporter of the Wall Street Journal
Despite Northrop's close identification with Mr. Jones,
the announcement of his departure came in a routine press
release about the board changes that didn't even mention his
former titles of chairman and chief executive officer.
   Reached at his office here, where he is involved with
charity and conservation fund-raising activities and a
vineyard operation, Mr. Jones said the mandatory replacement
of directors at 70 had had his support as "a logical and
graceful way" to build a younger board for Northrop.
   Also retiring as a director is William F. Ballhaus, 73.
Northrop said he remained on the board despite his age
because the mandatory retirement rule went into effect after
his last re-election.
   Mr. Jones's exit from the board brings to an end his
sometimes stormy 39-year career at Northrop. He was
considered an industry maverick who presided for two decades
over one of the most successful military programs of all
time, the F-5 fighter. Winning the B-2 stealth bomber
contract was a major coup, although the program will end far
short of its promise.
   Mr. Jones's announcement in April 1989 that he would step
down as chief executive, after 30 years, came amid questions
about payments to South Korean businessmen. U.S.
investigators charged that the 1984 payments were meant to
induce Seoul to buy F-20 planes. Northrop said the funds were
for a Seoul hotel complex.
   But Northrop's executive committee and outside directors
formally reprimanded Mr. Jones over his "management style" in
attempting to sell the jet fighters to the Korean government.
In September 1990, Mr. Jones resigned as chairman.
   Questions about Mr. Jones date back to the 1970s, when he
pleaded guilty to a felony count for creating a secret
political slush fund for contributions to President Nixon's
1972 campaign. Mr. Jones resigned as chairman for a time in
1975 after a Northrop report said he had "a heavy share of
the responsibility" for questionable corporate payments
abroad.
   Since Mr. Jones's retirement as a company officer,
Northrop has taken a number of steps to quietly distance
itself from its former leader. Last April, for example, the
company terminated a consulting contract with Mr. Jones,
although he will continue to draw payments under the contract
through this year.
   Among other board changes, Oliver C. Boileau, 64, a
Northrop vice president who is president and general manager
of the B-2 stealth bomber division, was elected a director,
succeeding F.J. Manzella. His retirement as executive vice
president was announced in November. Two people were
nominated to fill the board vacancies.