LTV to File Reorganization Plan Today,
   But Support by Creditors Isn't Assured
   ----
   By Christi Harlan and Dana Milbank
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
The steel creditors are also expected to throw a volatile
new issue into LTV's long-running bankruptcy proceedings by
suggesting that it is "clearly necessary" for the steel unit
to reject its collective bargaining agreement with the United
Steelworkers of America. Rejection of union contracts is
permissible under certain circumstances in bankruptcy-court
reorganizations.
   A union spokesman said such a move would be "of doubtful
legality," in part because rejection is prohibited under the
current union contract, which expires Aug. 1, 1993. The
spokesman called the steel creditors' statement
"sabre-rattling" but predicted a strike if the contract is
rejected. The steelworkers struck under similar circumstances
during the bankruptcy-court reorganization of
Wheeling-Pittsburgh Corp., another steelmaker.
   Renegotiating the steelworkers' contract already is a
stipulation for LTV's emergence from bankruptcy-court
protection, as is closing the sales of the company's
aerospace and defense units.
   Even with those issues pending, LTV projects that it could
emerge from bankruptcy-court protection late this year or
early next. The company has operated under the court's
protection from creditors for five years and seven months.
Its first reorganization plan, which was panned by creditors,
was filed in May.
   Some of the broader provisions of the new reorganization
plan have won backing from the steel unit's creditors and the
federal pension insurance agency, which has the power to
enforce LTV's liability for a $3.1 billion shortfall in the
steel unit's pension funds. Negotiations on the plan were
continuing this week with creditors of the parent company and
the aerospace unit.
   Under the new plan, the pension funds would receive the
bulk of LTV's cash, including a $1.5 billion upfront payment.
The remainder of the pension liabilities would be spread over
30 years.
   None of the creditors are expected to receive cash to
settle their claims, with the possible exception of the
aerospace creditors. Instead, the creditors would receive
stock in a reorganized LTV, albeit a leaner company than what
was projected in the reorganization plan submitted May 1.
   The original plan didn't contemplate the sale of LTV's
aerospace unit, which includes divisions that make planes and
missiles. The sale of the aerospace and defense units, which
acocunted for 39% of LTV's $1.51 billion in sales in 1991,
will leave LTV as a steelmaker with a small oil-and-gas unit.
   How such a trimmed-down company would fare in the
marketplace is a matter of dispute. Competing steelmakers
grumble that LTV has gained an edge because its bankruptcy
filing has allwed it to delay interest payments and cast off
some of its pension obligations, while other steelmakers
struggle to fund theirs.
   During the bankruptcy proceedings, LTV creditors approved
$2 billion in modernization and capital improvements, which
will allow LTV to emerge with some of the newest and best
technology in the industry. LTV also formed two
electro-galvanizing ventures with Sumitomo, the Japanese
steelmaker. And last month, LTV announced a $312 million
project to install a continuous caster at its Cleveland Works
by the end of next year, making LTV the only integrated
steelmaker with 100% continuous casting.
   Nevertheless, says Michael Shanahan, an Arthur D. Little
consultant, "LTV is going to have to face a lot more of the
total pension liability than they wanted or they would have
expected. They're going to be lean, mean, fit and nasty, but
they have to be incredibily competitive to absorb that
pension liability."
   While LTV is currently the largest supplier of sheet steel
to the automotive and appliance markets, it faces increasing
threats from imports and American minimills in a
steel-rolling market already hampered by overcapacity. Last
week, Nucor Corp., a minimill trying to break into the
flat-rolled busines, took another swipe at the integrated
steelmakers when it droped its prices by about 5%.