Why the Bundesbank Raised Rates
   ----
   By Roland Leuschel
How to explain such divergent economic policies? The
current picture of the major economies is rather mixed, to
say the least. In the U.S., Britain, Canada and Australia,
the recession has taken its toll. In all four countries real
gross domestic product is down from its level of a year ago.
In contrast, most European economies managed to chalk up
positive performances in 1991, although they posted slower
growth than in 1990.
   This situation has raised many questions, on both sides of
the Atlantic, leaving many wondering:
   Aren't the German and American decisions likely to cancel
each other out, and don't they run counter to the avowed
coordination of monetary policies by the G-7 nations?
   And, since the price of gold did not rise in response to
the Federal Reserve's rate cut, indicating that inflation is
not for the moment a threat, does that not mean that the
Federal Reserve is right and the Bundesbank is wrong?
   Understanding the Bundesbank's decision is not easy. There
were, however, at least four motives at work.
   1. The move indicated that parochial German politics
rather than an understanding of the global economy prevails
at the Bundesbank. The most internationally minded Bundesbank
officials, Chairman Helmut Schlesinger and Vice Chairman Hans
Tietmeyer, opposed the rate hike. The vote in favor of it was
carried by the representatives of the state governments on
the Bundesbank's board.
   The interest rate hike is the financial accompaniment to
an increasing mood of "Germany First." Germany decided last
month to recognize the independence of Croatia and Slovenia,
ignoring the objections of the U.S., France and the United
Nations. Recently, too, Germany has demanded that German be
introduced as one of the working languages of the European
Community, alongside English and French. No less symptomatic,
perhaps, is the fact that the interest rate hikes were
introduced shortly after European leaders gathered at the
Maastricht summit, where important decisions were taken
regarding the future European monetary union. The Bundesbank
clearly wanted to signal who is the master on board.
   2. The Bundesbank, unlike the other European central
banks, is not paying much attention to the gold price. It
appears instead to be concerned with the behavior of the
domestic money supply (currently at the higher end of the
target range) and of wage negotiations (many German unions
are demanding a 10% pay rise this year, exceeding the 4% or
5% that the Bundesbank finds acceptable). Neither is the
Bundesbank paying much attention to the German stock market.
At the end of 1990, only about 5% of the German population
held any stocks -- a figure well down from the level of the
1960s and much less than the 20% that owns them in the U.S.
   3. A growing number of European currencies -- unlike the
dollar and the yen -- have gradually reverted to a system of
near-fixed exchange rates through the European Exchange Rate
Mechanism (ERM). Since the German mark is the anchor of the
ERM, the Bundesbank feels it should seek to safeguard the
stability of the German currency in order to support the
credibility of the scheme as a whole.
   4. The integration of eastern Germany is proving to be an
expensive exercise. The budget deficit bulged to 5% of GDP in
1991. As a result, Germany needs all its domestic capital
resources and might even need to import funds. High interest
rates are essential to attracting the necessary capital. The
Bundesbank also feels that the German federal government has
pursued an unwarrantedly expansionist fiscal policy in order
to achieve unification. In no way does the bank intend to
accommodate this expansion by allowing the mark to
depreciate.
   Americans who are inclined to think that it is the Fed's
lenience, and not the Bundesbank's severity, that is correct
might want to recall that over the past 20 years, the U.S.
monetary authorities have permitted the dollar to lose nearly
90% of its value against gold. The price of gold has risen
from $40 an ounce in the early 1970s to $350. The dollar has
also been allowed to depreciate, though not as fast, against
the mark, sliding from 3.7 marks after the Bretton Woods
system collapsed in 1971, to fewer than 1.60 marks today. The
future will tell whether the latest monetary decisions were
warranted or not, and which was eventually right, the Federal
Reserve or the Bundesbank.
   The Federal Reserve tends to take a short-term view of the
stability of money; offering interest rate cuts whenever
inflation seems to have subsided. This is a policy favorable
to risk-takers, entrepreneurs and stock market investors, as
the chart shows.
   Germans, who lost all their savings in anti-inflation
monetary reforms in 1923 and 1948, take a longer view. That's
why the Bundesbank knows no compromise in the defense of the
mark. That is why it sometimes seems that the Bundesbank
favors the saver at the expense of the entrepreneur.
   ---
   Mr. Leuschel is chief strategist for Bank Brussels
Lambert.