Technology:
   Skeptics Question Development Progress
   Of Two New Digital-Recording Systems
   ----
   By Patrick M. Reilly
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
But the excitement that first surrounded the new systems
has faded to caution and skepticism over whether they will be
delivered on time and as promised. Sony, mysteriously, won't
even bring a working prototype of the Mini Disc to the big
trade show that opens in Las Vegas this week, despite months
of hype at international audio fairs.
   Philips Electronics N.V., the co-developer of the new DCC
tape format, will have at least two working DCC prototypes on
display in Las Vegas but has scrapped a world-wide DCC-launch
party set for Paris in April, moving the introduction back to
sometime next September.
   Both Sony and Philips are sticking to their promises of
delivering their digital recorders to retailers in 1992 and
deny industry speculation regarding production delays and
development problems. However, an ample supply of
recorded-music titles -- critical to consumer acceptance of
the new formats -- won't likely be available before 1993.
Confused and anxious about the shifting and vague launch
dates for the products, several record companies have put
their own release plans on hold.
   "There is a lot of interest in anything that is good for
the record industry, but we are still waiting for
specifications. Everything just isn't in place," says Jordan
Rost, vice president of marketing for Time Warner Inc.'s
Warner Music Group, whose record labels include Reprise,
Atlantic and Warner Bros.
   At least one manufacturer that had seemed eager to plunge
into the two new digital systems now seems to have backed
off. Pioneer Electronic Corp. had signed agreements with Sony
and Philips to produce both formats. But it won't unveil even
a prototype for either product at the show and hasn't decided
on a debut date.
   "We know people are looking to create excitement in the
business," says Mike Fidler, a Pioneer senior vice president,
"but there are questions about the technology and how people
are going to use these machines. There's still a lot of
unanswered questions."
   Another cloud over the two new formats is the uncertain
future of federal legislation that would protect
manufacturers from copyright lawsuits filed by music
publishers and would impose royalties on makers of
digital-recording machines and blank media; such royalties
would go to publishers and artists. The bill has been
approved by the Senate Judiciary Committee and is now headed
toward the House.
   Delays in delivering potential mass-market products like
DCC and Mini Disc, even by a few months, could hurt
manufacturers and retailers alike. The industry is running
out of hot, new products. Christmas sales, usually a reliable
boost, were largely a bust. Manufacturers cut costs to
dealers, and dealers resorted to heavy price-cutting to move
such hardware as camcorders and CD players. The snags in the
two new formats could also hurt sales of existing analog tape
and CD gear as consumers hold off purchases and wait for the
new technologies.
   As thousands of retailers and specialty-store buyers
assemble for the industry's semiannual bazaar, the absence of
a Mini Disc working model at the show is no cause for alarm,
says Mike Vitelli, a Sony senior vice president overseeing
the product. The company has already shown the device in a
private suite at the summer electronics show in Chicago last
June. "As far as Mini Disc, we've said it, and there's
nothing new to say," he adds.
   Sony has now licensed the technology to 14 disk and
hardware makers. Mr. Vitelli says converting CD-formatted
music to the new Mini Disc version isn't complicated. And a
Mini Disc plant in Terre Haute, Ind., now under construction,
will begin turning out prerecorded Mini Disc music titles by
next fall, producing up to 500,000 discs by year end.
   Still, industry executives consider the much-touted
product's absence at the show to be highly unusual behavior,
especially since Mini Disc is set for launch this year. Frans
Schmetz, a vice president at rival hardware maker Philips,
believes Sony's low profile is a sign that the Mini Disc
"probably doesn't have enough support from the music industry
to come out in Las Vegas."
   Philips says its own plans are on track. At the Las Vegas
show, the manufacturer will show a working DCC home deck and
personal portable players under the Philips name, and a car
stereo version in a nonworking mock-up. The Dutch electronics
giant says it will launch its machines in Japan, Europe and
the U.S. in early September, when it plans to ship large
numbers of DCC players to retailers.
   The original launch set for April was pushed back to "give
us more time to gear up in quantity by September," for DCC
players and prerecorded music titles, says Philips's Mr.
Schmetz.
   DCC clearly has a head start on Mini Disc. Tandy Corp.
will display a DCC home deck that will later be sold at its
Radio Shack stores for about $500. Tandy will also unveil the
first prerecorded title on DCC at the show. Japan's
Matsushita Electric Industrial Co., which developed DCC with
Philips, heads to Las Vegas with a strong hand, too. It will
demonstrate prototype DCC home decks, Walkman-like personal
audio units, and car stereos under its Panasonic and Technics
brands.
   The progress of Mini Disc and DCC is being watched closely
because the products' potential is enormous. At about $700
for Philips's first DCC decks, DCC is starting at a
reasonable entry price. CD players were introduced in 1983 at
about $1,000; today often priced below $200, they can now be
found in 30% of U.S. households. Philips says DCC's "market
penetration will go at least two or three times faster than
CD."
   Sony's Mini Disc, using a miniature CD that both records
and plays back music, will retail at less than $800 for a
portable unit. Both technologies deliver near-CD quality
sound and aim over time to replace the conventional tape
cassette. Notwithstanding the popularity of CDs, the trusty
audio cassette is still the world's most pervasive
prerecorded music format.
   But with a hopeful eye on the future, Tandy will hold a
concert at the Las Vegas show on Thursday to unveil "Digital
Compact Classics," billed as the first prerecorded title on
DCC tape. The concert will feature popster Peter Nero, who
will play piano accompanied by the Fort Worth Symphony
Orchestra. The gimmick? Mr. Nero will be live, the orchestra
will be on tape.