Wednesday's Markets:
   Greenspan
   Sends Prices
   Into Tailspin
   ---
   Dow Plunges 47.18,
   Bonds Fall on Hint
   Of Inaction at Fed
   ----
   By Douglas R. Sease
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Both the stock and bond markets opened on a stable footing
after President Bush's State of the Union address Tuesday
night, in which he laid out a package of proposals aimed at
stimulating economic growth. But later, Mr. Greenspan told a
congressional committee that he thinks interest rates are
already low enough to spark an economic recovery and that the
Fed probably won't hurry to push them lower.
   That upset bond investors, who had been counting on
another reduction by the Fed. And as long-term interest rates
headed higher, nervous stock investors grew fearful that the
higher rates could choke off an economic recovery even before
it begins.
   The sharp retreat came on the heels of the Dow
industrials' rise to a record Tuesday. If investors become
convinced that the Fed isn't going to help the economy, a
full-blown correction could materialize, some analysts
suggested.
   Thomas Gallagher, a political analyst for Shearson Lehman
Brothers, said investor reaction to Mr. Greenspan's remarks
yesterday indicate that monetary policy, not tax policy, is
the real driving force behind the economy and the markets.
"Fiscal policy is important, but it's still secondary to Fed
policy," he said.
   Analysts said the financial markets' early reaction to the
president's proposals indicated that there were few surprises
in the package, which is intended to spur both consumer
spending and investment. To some extent, investors appeared
to be willing to wait and see what compromises eventually
emerge after the Democrat-controlled Congress makes its own
proposals for economic stimulus. There is a lingering fear
that the investment portion of the administration's proposals
will be given short shrift in favor of a more immediate
consumer-spending stimulus.
   But other analysts suggested that bond investors were
already beginning to have second thoughts about the wisdom of
President Bush's proposals before Mr. Greenspan sent the
markets into a tailspin. Mickey Levy, chief economist at CRT
Government Securities, said he thinks the administration's
proposals, if adopted, would be both less stimulative and
more expensive than many people think.
   He noted, for instance, that the president's order to
reduce income tax withholding for the remainder of 1992 would
impose a substantial cost on the Treasury because it would
have to borrow to finance government operations rather than
use interest-free withholdings. And while the measure might
have some modest stimulative effect on consumer spending now,
consumers might have to ante up more next April in the form
of tax payments.
   "All they're really doing with that is shifting the tax
burden from this year to next year," Mr. Levy said.
   Mr. Levy also said that while early signs of recovery are
already apparent -- he expects the economy to be growing at a
rate of 2.5% later this year -- the recovery is likely to be
very uneven. He predicted that export industries will
continue to do well but that some of the lagging areas of the
economy -- retailing and automobiles, for example -- are
suffering from structural problems that go beyond economic
cycles. He said investors will have to be cautious about how
they play any recovery, as some of the companies that
normally produce big earnings gains and rising stock prices
in recoveries might not perform so well this time.
   In major market action:
                                                                                                       

   Stock prices plunged in heavy trading. Volume totaled
248.9 million shares on the New York Stock Exchange, where
1,054 issues fell and 653 rose.
                                                                                                       

   Bond prices tumbled. The yield on the Treasury's benchmark
30-year issue rose to 7.75%.
                                                                                                       

   The dollar was mixed. In late New York trading the
currency was quoted at 1.6014 marks, up from 1.6000 marks
Tuesday, but unchanged at 125.75 yen.