Commodities:
   Oil Prices Climb on Report OPEC May Agree
   At Geneva Meeting to Cut Output by 5% to 7%
   ----
   By Allanna Sullivan
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Crude oil for March delivery jumped 19 cents a barrel to
finish at $19.36. Heatingoil and gasoline prices rose as
well.
   There had been speculation in the market in recent days
about a possible 5% cut, but the MEES report appeared to give
credence to those rumors. "It certainly stirred things up, no
doubt about it," said Andrew Lebow, analyst for E.D.  F. Man
International Futures Inc.
   There have been voluntary cuts over the past few weeks by
OPEC members amounting to more than 400,000 barrels a day.
Only Kuwait and Iraq, neither of which is producing much oil,
haven't reduced output. But crude prices had declined sharply
in recent months as OPEC members pumped excess oil into the
markets, so those voluntary cuts weren't seen as enough to
bolster prices significantly.
   Additional reductions of 5% to 7% would bring OPEC output,
currently about 24.3 million barrels daily, down to between
22.6 million and 23.1 million barrels. Analysts say the
deeper cut would just about match projected demand for OPEC
crude in the second quarter, when the need for oil
traditionally slackens.
   Anticipation of OPEC cuts is expected to stabilize prices
but is unlikely to trigger a major bullish trend. "There's
still a 150 million-barrel surplus of oil, mostly distillate,
in inventory," Mr. Lebow said.
   Also helping to buttress buying was a report that Iraqi
and United Nations officials would meet again to discuss
renewing Iraqi oil exports. The gathering would take place in
Vienna on Feb. 5, just before the OPEC meeting. But despite
reports that progress was made when the two parties met this
month, substantive issues remain, and it's unlikely that any
Iraqi crude will make it into the marketplace for some
months, experts say.
   Separately, the London International Petroleum Exchange
yesterday launched a contract to trade unleaded gasoline. A
spokesman for the exchange said that about 270 contracts
traded, considered a brisk pace for the first day of a
contract. The contract trades in lots of 100 metric tons,
deliverable into the areas of Amsterdam and Rotterdam in the
Netherlands and Antwerp, Belgium.
   In other commodity markets yesterday:
                                                                                                       

   LIVESTOCK AND MEATS: Cattle futures prices rose on strong
demand and persistent optimism related to strength in the
cash market. Retailers bought large quantities of beef from
packers over the past two weeks, mainly because their meat
inventories had dwindled through November and December.
Yesterday the Chicago Mercantile Exchange's April cattle
contract rose 0.22 cent to 76.35 cents a pound, testing price
peaks set in October. However, not all analysts are convinced
the price strength will continue. Dan Vaught, livestock
analyst for A.G. Edwards  Sons Inc., St. Louis, said he
thinks retailers have more or less bought the beef they need
and that demand may now ease a bit. Without sustained retail
demand, prices are unlikely to continue to advance, at least
in the next few weeks. After that, prices may get support
from the traditional spring run-up.
                                                                                                       

   PRECIOUS METALS: Platinum prices rallied amid indications
of tight supplies of physical metal. Platinum for April
delivery rose $5 an ounce to $351.50. The most dramatic sign
of tightening supply has been a rise in lease rates, the cost
of borrowing metal, one trader said. The large supply
deposited by the former Soviet Union into Swiss banks last
summer as collateral for credit arrangements is rumored to
have been moved from the banks -- which had leased the metal
out -- and returned to Russia or some other "firm hands,"
parties that hold on to the metal rather than leasing it out
or selling it, they said. Also contributing to the tightness
is improving demand, they said. The petrochemical industry
has been buying recently, a trader said. People who use
platinum industrially might be nervous about low supply
levels, said John Brimelow, an analyst at BV Capital in New
York. He added that Japanese demand for physical metal has
been strengthening in recent months, even as Japanese
speculators sold platinum heavily. Mr. Brimelow said he
thinks platinum prices have already seen their lows for the
year, citing diminished supply from Russia and possibly
recurring disruptions in South African production.
                                                                                                       

   COTTON: Futures prices set new life-of-contract lows.
Cotton for March delivery finished at 54.18 cents a pound,
down 1.32 cents. Sharon Johnson, cotton specialist at Cargill
Investor Services in Atlanta, attributed the drop to price
cuts by Paraguay and the Commonwealth of Independent States,
which comprises former Soviet republics. Cotton from those
areas has been a key factor in pressuring world prices lower
this season, she said. Paraguay is apparently trying to avoid
a repeat of last year when it had unsold cotton at the end of
the season, she said, and the C.I.S. is desperately seeking
to generate hard currency. There's a lot of cotton available
in the world, she said, and as long as prices remain low,
there's no incentive for buyers to step up and cover their
long-term needs. Moreover, traders with bets that prices will
fall have no incentive to take profits -- by buying
offsetting contracts -- and are instead adding to their
"short" positions. "The market is giving absolutely no reason
not to be bearish," she said. Prices could fall near, and
possibly below, 50 cents, she said; that would be the lowest
since 1988.