Salomon Officials Spell Out Damage
   From Scandal, but Suggest Worst Is Over
   ----
   By Michael Siconolfi
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The booming new-stock issue business in 1991's fourth
quarter "was a once-in-a-decade opportunity -- and we were on
the bench," Deryck C. Maughan, Salomon's chief operating
officer, told institutional investors and analysts Friday.
"Boards of directors feel quite reluctant to offer lead
management {roles} while the firm is under investigation."
Salomon's stock-underwriting market share plunged to 1.9% in
the fourth quarter from about 11.5% before the scandal hit,
according to Securities Data Co. So far this year, its share
has rebounded.
   Mr. Maughan added that the Treasury-auction bidding
scandal, and the subsequent downgrading of Salomon's credit
ratings, has had a "real effect on our swaps and derivatives
business." Derivatives -- hybrid securities that move in
relation to an underlying index, stock, bond, currency or
commodity -- are a big profit center for many major Wall
Street investment banks.
   All this fallout has added up to skimpier profits for
parent Salomon Inc., which had a fourth-quarter loss of $29
million, though it had net income of $507 million for all of
1991. Most of the profits came in the first six months,
before the scandal surfaced.
   "It's quite clear," Mr. Maughan told investors and
analysts, that the Treasury-auction scandal had a
"significant impact on our earnings." But once Salomon gets
past the scandal, he asserted, the firm's earnings potential
is "remarkable."
   Indeed, Salomon's funding crisis appears to have passed.
Salomon officials said the firm has resumed selling
commercial paper and medium-term notes, after being forced to
suspend issuing such short-term IOUs in August following the
scandal.
   Separately, Salomon disclosed that it pulled out of
"speculative" stock trading for its own account, in a bid to
reduce the firm's risks. The pullback coincides with
Salomon's move to cut the power and clout of its stock
department. Speculative stock trading sometimes "was a hedge
against capital gains," quipped Warren Buffett, Salomon's
interim chairman, suggesting that the firm had lost money on
the stock trades.
   "This does not mean we won't provide capital to our
customers," Mr. Maughan stressed. "The two are
distinguishable, and some people would say we have resolved
some conflict" with the trading decision, Mr. Maughan said.
   Mr. Buffett also said the firm won't rule out buying
another business in the next few years. And he dismissed
speculation that Salomon's Phibro Energy Inc. unit would be
sold, asserting that there "are absolutely no plans" for a
spinoff or sale.
   Since August, Salomon officials said, 335 employees
resigned voluntarily, slightly higher than the 326 in the
year-earlier period. Although several senior employees have
defected, "it's simply not true that there's any kind of mass
walkout," Mr. Maughan said.
   In other matters, Salomon General Counsel Robert E. Denham
said the federal government is "nearing the end of the
investigative phase" of its probe into Salomon's
Treasury-market wrongdoing. Salomon has admitted that it
repeatedly violated Treasury-auction bidding rules, a
disclosure that led to the resignation of several top Salomon
executives and to civil and criminal investigations of the
firm by the Securities and Exchange Commission and Justice
Department, among others.
   Mr. Denham reiterated Salomon's belief that the violations
were the "actions of a few people" and "not central to the
way Salomon makes money." Still, Mr. Denham said, Salomon
"can't rule out the possibility of criminal charges."
   Salomon began negotiations last week with the SEC to
determine the sanctions and penalties it will face, people
familiar with the talks say.
   With all the probes pending, Salomon doesn't want to
freeze "like a rabbit in our headlights." But when the
investigations are over, Mr. Maughan said, "Salomon will
emerge a more-focused, more-profitable and more-cohesive
firm."