Foreign Exchange:
   Dollar Mixed as Foreign Central Banks
   Move to Bolster Their Own Currencies
   ----
   By Charlene Lee
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
In early trading Thursday in Tokyo, the dollar was at
133.80 yen, up a bit from 133.70 yen at Wednesday's Tokyo
close. The U.S. currency also was trading at 1.6640 marks,
down from 1.6744 marks Wednesday.
   "The Swiss National Bank started the move downward, and
there were a few other sellers and a few speculators," said
David Gilmore, senior foreign-exchange analyst for MCM
Currencywatch.
   The Swiss central bank confirmed it bought Swiss francs,
first for marks and then for dollars. Officials said the
moves were an extension of the bank's aggressive intervention
last Friday.
   Dealers said the interventions were aimed at slowing the
Swiss franc's erosion against the mark, rather than the
dollar, and underscored the Swiss central bank's desire to
cap the mark at 0.9100 franc.
   Traders said market players took the Swiss central bank's
action as a cue to unwind long-dollar positions ahead of
today's release of U.S. retail sales data for February.
   The Swiss intervention, coupled with the mark's strength,
helped keep the dollar under pressure all day, according to
Dennis Pettit, vice president and foreign-exchange manager in
New York for Long-Term Credit Bank of Japan.
   The Swiss central bank was first seen selling marks in
Europe at about 0.9068 franc at midmorning. Later, it sold
dollars at 1.5150-1.5170 francs.
   "There have been and continue to be a number of
long-dollar positions, and you have to give some thought to
taking profits," said Robert White, foreign-exchange manager
at First Interstate Bank of California, Los Angeles. A long
position in a currency involves holding it in anticipation
that it will rise.
   Analysts and traders were divided on the importance the
market would give to the U.S. retail sales figures for
February.
   According to an average of estimates from economists
polled by Dow Jones Capital Markets Report, retail sales rose
0.8% last month compared with a 0.6% rise in January.
Excluding autos, the economists estimate retail sales in
February rose 0.4% compared with a 0.6% gain in January.
   Mr. Gilmore of MCM Currencywatch said he doesn't believe
that the retail sales data, if they are in line with or
exceed forecasts, will provide enough impetus to support a
dollar rally beyond 1.6800 marks.
   A sell-off in the dollar "is a bit overdue," he said. "The
market is {fundamentally} ahead of the game," he added,
pointing to mixed signs of a U.S. economic recovery.
   However, Mr. White said good technical support for the
dollar points to an upward trend. "There are an ample number
of people looking to buy {the dollar} on the dips. There's a
very firm undertone. The fact that it didn't move up
{yesterday} means there's just not a lot of news to trade
on," he said.
   The yen, meanwhile, continued to lose ground against the
dollar and mark, despite several attempts by the Bank of
Japan early yesterday to support the yen. Dealers said the
bank sold dollars in at least three separate intervention
rounds, starting at 133.40-133.50 yen.
   The Bank of Japan succeeded in driving the dollar to an
intraday low of 132.86 yen. But as in previous intervention
attempts by the bank over the past month, players merely
bought more dollars on the dips, traders said.
   "The {Bank of Japan} is clearly unhappy with the
dollar-yen {rate} because it wants to cut interest rates, but
can't with a weak currency," Mr. Pettit of Long-Term Credit
Bank of Japan said.
   Analysts believe Japanese monetary officials may have to
cut the official discount rate, currently at 4.5%, by
three-quarters of a percentage point to stimulate a slowing
economy. The Nikkei index of Tokyo stock prices closed
yesterday at 20,592.14, its lowest level since Oct. 1, 1990.
   In cross, or non-dollar trading, the German currency was
changing hands at 80.19 yen late in New York yesterday, well
above 79.56 yen on Tuesday.
   The Bank of Canada took the currency market by surprise,
selling U.S. dollars for the second consecutive day. The
Canadian central bank sold a moderate amount of dollars at
1.1950-1.1955 Canadian dollars, dealers said.
   Traders said the move was unexpected because the Bank of
Canada sold the U.S. dollar at levels below its day-earlier
intervention level at 1.1963 Canadian dollars.
   Michael Wissell, manager of corporate foreign exchange for
Toronto Dominion Bank, said the U.S. currency is headed for a
test of resistance at 1.2000 Canadian dollars by early next
week.