When Employees Own Big Stake,
   It's a Buy Signal for Investors
   ----
   By James A. White
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
These 10-percenters are a diverse lot. They include such
celebrated American names as Tootsie Roll Industries,
McDonald's, Wal-Mart Stores and Kellogg. Also on the list are
lesser-known Bandag, a tire retreader, and Hillenbrand
Industries, which makes caskets.
   "You don't have the adversarial tugs of war between
managers and shareholders because their economic interests
are totally congruent," says Mr. Cunningham. Executives take
a longer-term view and look ahead five years or more, because
"they make much more from being a shareholder than they do
from being a manager."
   Such ideas have been heard before. But Mr. Cunningham
offers numbers to back them up.
   Look what has happened to the portfolios he oversees that
have followed a strategy of buying only companies where
employees -- whether top management or factory-floor workers
-- hold 10% or more of the shares.
   Last year the portfolios Mr. Cunningham manages for
Alliance surged 41.5% including reinvested dividends. They
soundly beat the total return of 30.4% for the Standard 
Poor's 500-stock index. And back in 1990, when Alliance began
using the strategy it calls Active Investor to run mostly
accounts of wealthy families, results also topped the market:
a 0.9% gain vs. a 3.09% loss for the SP. Low turnover in the
portfolio, part of the strategy, also is helping results.
   The results are no fluke, contends Mr. Cunningham. He has
assembled data on the strategy going back to 1979, looking at
what he calls "active investors." He includes top managers
and their family trusts, lower-ranking employees, board
members and sometimes, because of their ties to management,
employee stock ownership plans.
   Over that time, a hypothetical portfolio of companies at
least 10%-controlled by such investors would have lagged
behind the SP 500 in only two years: 1980 and 1989. The
portfolio's annualized return over 13 years would have
averaged 27.17%, against 16.54% for the SP.
   More evidence on the prowess of stocks with sizable
employee ownership comes from new indexes compiled by
academics at New Jersey's Rutgers University. The Employee
Owners Index consists of 205 stocks with employee holdings of
at least 10%; each company has a stock-market value of $50
million or more. The index rose 35.9% last year, excluding
dividends. That compares with 26.3% for the SP 500 without
dividends.
   The new index gives equal weight to companies regardless
of their size. The Rutgers group also performed an alternate
calculation, the Employee Ownership Investor Index, that is
weighted by market value, so that larger companies hold
greater sway over the index. Because small stocks excelled in
1991, this index showed that companies with large employee
stakes gained 25.6% for the year, slightly behind the SP.
   Returns of companies with heavy employee ownership varied
greatly last year by industry under both index calculations.
Stocks with 10% employee ownership in the technology,
financial and industrial categories, for example, outstripped
the collective results of their respective Dow Jones Equity
Market Index industry groups; companies with high employee
ownership among utilities and consumer noncyclical companies
did far worse than their overall industry groups.
   Such variations were unexpected, says Prof. Joseph Blasi
of Rutgers. "Most investors I've talked to think that
employee ownership is a unified phenomenon, either positive
or negative," he says. "The big surprise is that this is
industry-group specific."
   At Alliance, Mr. Cunningham agrees that having large
blocks of stocks in the hands of insiders is far from a
guarantee of success. "You're looking for an organized
pattern of ownership, a base that has been there a long time
and that understands the company," Mr. Cunningham says. And
it's crucial that these holders be active in the company;
big-block holders who merely count dividends often "do
terribly," he says. Holders don't have to be individuals, as
in the case of Kellogg where "a trust holds a lot of the
stock, but they have good management."
   Not all companies with active shareholders are promising,
Mr. Cunningham cautions. Alliance manages about $60 billion
under numerous strategies. Mr. Cunningham, who manages
several hundred million dollars of that, relies on Alliance's
legions of analysts to help pick 40 stocks with the strongest
growth prospects from among a pool of some 270 companies
meeting his Active Investor requirements. Publicly traded
Alliance, itself held 55% by Equitable Life Assurance Society
of the U.S. and 17% by employees, is excluded from the buy
list; Dow Jones, publisher of this newspaper and nearly 50%
family owned, is in the pool of candidates, but isn't
currently held in the Active Investor portfolios.
   The Alliance strategy puts a premium on company
management. "No matter how smart the analysts are, they can't
know as much as the people running the company," Mr.
Cunningham says. As a result, unexplained insider selling is
closely watched as a trouble indicator. "If they buy, we like
that," the money manager says. "If they say, `I want to
diversify,' that would trigger us getting out."
   Food companies have been favorites under Alliance's Active
Investor strategy. They made up 27% of portfolio holdings at
year end, and still account for about 19% after some
profit-taking. In addition to Kellogg and Tootsie Roll, food
holdings include Anheuser-Busch, Gerber Products, J.M.
Smucker and Wm. Wrigley Jr.
   Many stock picks in the Active Investor portfolio are
dominant players in industries with predictable growth.
Witness casket-maker Hillenbrand, with 62% of its shares held
by the Hillenbrand family, including the chief executive
officer. "They have over 70% of the casket business, which is
a steady-state industry, and they `backward integrated' from
caskets to hospital beds," Mr. Cunningham. "It just looks
like a jumbo jet taking off."
   Also an industry leader is tire-retreader Bandag, where
the Carver family and other insiders hold about 70% of the
shares. Mr. Cunningham's assessment: "They are the best in a
very reliable, razor-blade-type business." Another favorite
is the paint and coatings maker Valspar, held 16% by insiders
and 20% by Norwest Bank of Minneapolis.
   The most volatile stock in the Active Investor portfolios
is recently added General Dynamics, where the Crown family
holds about 20% and management also has a big stake. The bet:
"You're going to see survivors in the defense industry, even
with the {military-spending} cutbacks," says Mr. Cunningham.
The stock has risen to 59 3/8 from a 12-month low of 20 1/4;
"General Dynamics is generating a lot of cash, and the belief
is that the company will continue to do that."