Economy:
   Democrats Advance Tax 'Fairness' Bid
   ---
   Panel Pushes Middle-Class Relief,
   Aiming to Embarrass Bush
   ----
   By Jackie Calmes
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The Democrats now will go on to draft an alternative by
the weekend, built around an even bigger middle-income tax
cut. The Democratic bill will also include business tax
incentives similar to Bush administration proposals.
   The latest action underscores the tension that will shape
this year's tax bill and possibly derail it. Democrats are
eager to win the allegiance of the vast middle class by
pushing measures that tilt the tax code in its favor. But
with a recession undermining the nation's economy, both
parties are equally eager to enact measures to spur growth.
The two goals are frequently in conflict.
   By shelving a middle-class tax cut until some indefinite
time, Republicans had hoped to set themselves apart from the
congressional Democrats and emphasize their commitment to
growth. "We decided we had to stake out some territory for
ourselves," said a top GOP aide. Ironically, that territory
is shared by the man who has become the Democrats' leading
contender in the New Hampshire presidential primary -- former
Massachusetts Sen. Paul Tsongas. Mr. Tsongas opposes a
middleclass tax cut and has criticized his Democratic
colleagues for "pandering" to middle-class voters by calling
for one.
   Many Republicans also saw the push for tax fairness as a
political trap for a president who has sworn not to raise
taxes. That's because Democrats have vowed to raise taxes on
the rich to pay for their cut for the middle class. "We don't
want a tax-rate increase," said a White House official,
explaining the decision to put off any middle-class relief.
   Treasury Secretary Nicholas Brady was quick to criticize
the committee's partyline vote, complaining that it had
selected only the tax provisions from the Bush budget and
dropped the offsetting spending cuts. "We hear the Democrats
plan to meet in closed session this weekend and craft a bill
to raise Americans' tax rates," he said. "The president
wants, and the American people deserve, immediate action on
his economic package."
   But with Republicans seeming to take themselves out of the
competition for middle-class voters' allegiance, Democrats
are rededicating themselves to the effort.
   "I can see no justification for reporting capital gains
relief for rich investors today while working families with
children wait for a second tax bill that may never come,"
said Ways and Means Committee Chairman Dan Rostenkowski (D.,
Ill.).
   The dropping of a middle-class tax cut "is indicative of
where their interests are. They never really were for that,"
said House Majority Leader Richard Gephardt (D., Mo.). "A
combination of a middle-income tax cut along with other
growth incentives can be the best kind of package."
   Defining the nation's middle class is itself a difficult
issue. Robert Reischauer, director of the Congressional
Budget Office, said a rough definition would be anyone who
isn't in the richest one-fifth of the population or the
poorest one-fifth. That takes in families of three with
annual pretax incomes between $15,000 and $60,000 a year.
Even the typical two-earner family had income of only $46,777
in 1990, according to the Census Bureau.
   The middle-income tax cut in the president's budget, on
the other hand, would provide its most generous benefits to
families earning as much as $157,900. Members of Congress
also often like to picture themselves as members of the
middle class, even though they make $129,500.
   At yesterday's Ways and Means session, even Democrats who
support the president on capital gains joined in chiding the
Republicans for dumping the middleclass tax cut. And Rep.
Thomas Downey (D., N.Y.), alluding to Mr. Bush's combative
statement in his State of the Union speech that "battle" will
be "joined" if Democrats don't pass his economic program by
March 20, commented, "I think we've moved up the date of the
issue being joined."
   In another salvo in the rhetorical war, Democrats
yesterday released an analysis from the Congressional Budget
Office showing that Mr. Bush's revised capital-gains proposal
would be more than twice as generous to the wealthiest 1% of
taxpayers as his initial proposal last month. The new
version, unlike the first, would allow taxpayers subject to
the 24% alternative minimum tax to pay the proposed 15.4%
capital-gains tax on sales of real estate and small
businesses. The alternative minimum tax affects taxpayers who
have so many deductions that they would otherwise pay little
or no income tax.
   Still, a sizable minority of Democrats favor a
capital-gains tax cut, and Rep. Rostenkowski predicted
Congress will pass one. Likewise, Democrats are expected to
propose variations on Mr. Bush's provisions giving an
investment tax allowance to businesses and restoring real
estate entrepreneurs' "passive loss" deductions.
   Paying for all that and a middle-class tax cut will be
difficult. For example, the administration's streamlined tax
package would cost $31.3 billion over six years, according to
Congress's tax analysts. And Mr. Rostenkowski's proposed
two-year tax cut of as much as $400 annually for middleincome
workers would cost $45.9 billion.
   He has proposed to raise $45 billion through 1997 by
imposing a new 35% top rate on individuals with taxable
incomes of at least $85,000 and couples with taxable incomes
of at least $145,000; a 10% surtax on millionaires; and a
percentage-point increase in the alternative minimum tax. But
recent estimates by Congress's Joint Committee on Taxation
show his tax increase would raise $63 billion over six years,
not $45 billion.
   That would give Democrats some breathing room. They could
use the roughly $18 billion difference to offset the cost of
some business tax breaks. Or they could raise the income
thresholds for those hit by a tax increase; some Democrats
are afraid to vote for a tax increase unless it clearly hits
only the very rich. Or they could do a little of both.
   ---
   David Wessel contributed to this article.