What Bush Must Do After His Deadline
Dear Mr. President:
   In your State of the Union address of Jan. 28, you
described the nation's economic ills and outlined a series of
initiatives to address them. Quite appropriately and quite
courageously, you not only challenged Congress to pass your
proposals but gave the institution a specific deadline --
March 20. It is now clear that Congress will not approve your
proposals, but instead will send you a bill that is wholly
inadequate -- a bill we urge you to veto.
   In that same State of the Union address, you stated that
if Congress does not approve your proposals by March 20, "the
battle is joined." We urge you to fulfill that promise by
taking unilateral action to address the economy and improve
the effectiveness and accountability of government in
general. We have outlined a series of such initiatives. We
urge you to give them careful consideration and commence
appropriate action immediately following Friday's deadline.
   To decrease tax rates on capital and to stimulate
investment, we urge you to:
   1. Direct the secretary of treasury to index capital gains
and depreciation for inflation. For both capital gains and
depreciation, the "cost basis" is determined not in
legislation but in regulation. The secretary of treasury
could cut tax rates on capital simply by defining the cost
basis as the original cost adjusted for inflation. This not
only would promote economic growth but would end the practice
of requiring people to pay taxes on phony gains attributable
to inflation.
   To reduce the regulatory drag on the economy, we urge you
to:
   2. Establish a regulatory budget and cap it. One recent
study estimates the annual cost of federal regulation to be
$400 billion. At least until economic growth is restored, the
regulatory drag should not be allowed to increase. Thus, we
urge you to direct all agencies to submit their regulatory
proposals and then approve them only when accompanied by
initiatives to reduce the overall cost of regulation by a
like amount.
   We suggest that you ask the vice president to administer
this regulatory budget program through his Council on
Competitiveness and through the Office of Management and
Budget's Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs. To
accomplish this initiative we suggest that you extend the
90-day regulatory review process and moratorium announced in
January (including the targeting of existing rules for
review) and request the so-called independent agencies to
abide by regulatory Executive Orders.
   We also urge you to address the immense bottleneck in our
financial institutions. At present, monetary policy to enable
or promote long-term growth is hampered severely by unusually
stringent capital requirements for banks and savings and
loans.
   3. Direct the Comptroller of the Currency, the Federal
Reserve System, and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
to liberalize capital requirements by adopting the "Basel
standards." Following Congress's failure to make fundamental
reforms in the deposit insurance system, the financial
regulators adopted a too-stringent set of capital
requirements, the result being that banks and SLs are unable
to expand the supply of credit at an appropriate rate. As
Martin Feldstein pointed out recently, adopting the
internationally recognized Basel standards "would increase
bank lending, stimulate recovery, and help to provide funds
for sustained expansion."
   Although the effect on the economy would not be as
immediate or as direct as in the case of the initiatives
listed above, we urge you to endeavor to control the overall
level of government spending and eliminate waste.
Specifically, we urge you to:
   4. Take initiatives to reduce the level of federal
spending. We urge you to submit a series of rescissions to
Congress to eliminate low-priority spending in current
appropriations and then work to obtain discharge petitions to
force up-or-down votes. We also urge you to announce your
intention to veto any appropriations that increase spending
by more than the rate of inflation. Even without changes in
the tax code, every dollar saved is a dollar that must not be
borrowed and on which interest need not be paid.
   5. Direct all agencies not to spend funds in a manner
inconsistent with presidential policy unless mandated by law.
It is clear that appropriations report language does not meet
the presentment clause of the Constitution and therefore does
not constitute law. Far and away, the most detailed spending
directions are found in the committee reports that accompany
appropriations bills, not the actual bills that are passed by
Congress and signed into law. It is by such means that most
"pork" enters the budget. Thus, we urge you to direct
agencies not to spend appropriated monies for low-priority
programs at the expense of more appropriate projects.
   We urge you to consider additional items to improve the
functioning of the economy and of government itself. These
include:
   (a) directing the secretary of treasury to issue bonds
indexed for inflation (to minimize interest cost to the
government and to lower interest rates in the economy),
   (b) directing the secretary of commerce to minimize
unwarranted affirmative findings under the antidumping
statutes (to reduce costs to consumers),
   (c) directing the secretary of agriculture to implement
the agricultural marketing order program so as to minimize
restraints on the supply of foodstuffs (to reduce costs to
consumers),
   (d) directing the secretary of labor to inform workers of
their rights under the Beck decision (to increase worker
take-home pay) and to revise definitions of "prevailing
rates" under the Davis-Bacon law (to reduce government
construction costs),
   (e) implementing productivity improvement goals for each
federal agency, instructing agency heads to reduce personnel,
and privatizing additional programs (to reduce costs and
improve services),
   (f) directing agencies to grant appropriate waivers to
state governments with respect to Medicaid and other support
programs (to improve coverage and lower costs), and
   (g) enforcing Executive Order 12606 requiring agencies to
assess the impact of their regulations on the family.
   Mr. President, the events over the past several months
have demonstrated the existence of an additional problem of
enormous proportions: the lack of accountability in Congress.
Voters may decide on the qualifications of individual
candidates, but their ability to affect the accountability of
the institution as a whole is indirect at best. Therefore, we
believe you should:
   1. Submit omnibus legislation to apply all laws to
Congress. Probably more than any other single initiative,
making Congress live by the laws it applies to everyone else
would increase the institution's accountability. Such
legislation would include not only well-publicized items such
as race and sex discrimination, but laws and regulations
relating to ethics and conflicts of interest that now apply
to persons in the executive branch.
   2. Submit a recession to reduce appropriations for the
legislative branch. A major reason for the lack of
accountability in Congress is that over the past two decades
the institution has grown in topsy-turvy fashion. It is now
rife with warring factions, politicized staff, enormous waste
and little regard for the taxpayer. Cutting legislative
appropriations would focus the minds of congressmen more on
the responsibilities, rather than the accouterments, of
office.
   We note with approval the news that the U.S. Attorney for
the District of Columbia is investigating reports of
congressional malfeasance. If violations of law are
uncovered, we believe those responsible should be prosecuted
in the same manner as they would be if they did not hold
positions of privilege and power.
   Mr. President, we respectfully urge you to take quick,
decisive action following March 20 to revitalize the economy
and secure accountability in Congress.
                                                                                                       

   Gary L. Bauer Assistant to the President for Domestic
Policy, 1987-88; Robert P. Bedell, Administrator, Office of
Federal Procurement Policy, 1986-88; Paul N. Beckner,
President, Citizens for a Sound Economy; James H. Burnley IV,
Secretary of Transportation, 1987-89; Henry Butler,
Professor, George Mason School of Law; Charles J. Cooper,
Assistant Attorney General for Legal Counsel, 1985-88; W.
Mark Crain, Special Assistant to Director, Office of
Management and the Budget, 1987-88; Becky Norton Dunlop,
Assistant Secretary, Interior Department, 1988-89; Stephen
Glazier, Attorney; Michael J. Horowitz, General Counsel, OMB,
1981-85; James C. Miller III, Director, OMB, 1985-88; Timothy
J. Muris, Execeutive Associate Director, OMB, 1985-88;
Theodore B. Olson, Assistant Attorney General for the Office
of Legal Counsel, 1981-84; Daniel Oliver, Chairman, Federal
Trade Commission, 1985-89; Paul Craig Roberts, Assistant
Secretary, Department of Treasury, 1981-1982; Richard W.
Rahn, Vice President and Chief Economist, U.S. Chamber of
Commerce, 1980-91; Mark Sullivan III, General Counsel,
Department of Treasury, 1988-89; Robert D. Tollison,
Director, Bureau of Economics, FTC, 1981-83.