Marketing  Media -- Advertising:
   Some Winter Olympians Begin
   To Rack Up Endorsement Offers
   ----
   By Joanne Lipman
Mr. Eldredge and Ms. Terwilligar may be the first among
America's athletes to trade on Olympic glory -- but only by a
hair. Speed skater Bonnie Blair's agent reports a flood of
phone calls from soft drink, fast food and other companies
following her two goldmedal performances. And ad executives
say figure skater Kristi Yamaguchi, currently in first place,
will hit the endorsement jackpot if she skates away with the
gold tonight.
   In the coming weeks, ad executives expect the two female
skating stars and, to a lesser extent, a third -- mogul skier
and gold medalist Donna Weinbrecht -- to cash in with some
visible endorsement deals, including star turns in ads. But
most other Olympic athletes who try to dip into the
endorsement pot will come up dry. America's paltry collection
of medals, and its dearth of compelling personalities, means
few stars were born in the snowdrifts of Albertville.
   In fact, some of the most highly touted athletes watched
tens of thousands of dollars of potential endorsements
evaporate after disappointing performances. Skier A.J. Kitt
and speed skater Dan Jansen had been at the top of almost
every advertiser's list. But neither won even a bronze medal.
   Other athletes who come home empty-handed face similarly
dim prospects. Even Mr. Eldredge and Ms. Terwilligar, both of
whom have received plenty of good press, probably won't be in
the public eye for long. A Nuprin spokeswoman says the two
won't be part of the brand's continuing "Nupe it" campaign
starring tennis great Jimmy Connors. The ad they star in is a
one-time-only "salute" to them, she says, and they weren't
paid for it.
   Be prepared to see plenty of a select few others, though,
especially speed skater Ms. Blair. Not only did the skater
repeat her 1988 gold medal triumph, but "her interviews were
terrific; she was a smiley, fresh, all-American girl," says
Nova Lanktree of Burns Sports Celebrity Service in Chicago,
which matches athletes with advertisers. Ms. Lanktree says
she has gotten more advertiser inquiries about Ms. Blair than
about any other Olympic athlete.
   Ms. Blair, who signed on with the professional management
firm of Advantage International two years ago, already has a
number of advertiser affiliations, including Visa, Evian and
Xerox. But she mostly has made personal appearances, rather
than starring in ads -- a situation her agents hope they can
turn around with the new gold medals. Helen Wald of Advantage
International, interrupting her conversation to field
frequent phone calls about Ms. Blair, says the firm is
considering a host of offers: "It's a nice feeling."
   Several ice hockey players also have endorsement potential
should the team win the gold, particularly goalie Ray
LeBlanc, ad executives say. And Nancy Kerrigan, the figure
skater currently in second place, also may be able to cash
in, they say. Ms. Kerrigan already appears in a Texaco
commercial, although she isn't identified in it.
   The Americans face stiffer competition for endorsements
than ever before, though, and from an unlikely source: the
former Soviet bloc. Katarina Witt, the 1988 figure skating
gold medalist, is by far the most commercially successful
1988 Olympian -- she even stars in a Diet Coke commercial --
despite the fact that she hails from the former East Germany.
Several top athletes from Russia and Eastern Europe have
taken a cue from Ms. Witt, and have retained U.S. agents to
find commercials for them, too.
   Michael Goldberg, whose Marco Entertainment represents
such U.S. figure skaters as Tonya Harding and Christopher
Bowman, recently added to his roster two Russian pairs
medalists, along with gold medal figure skater Viktor
Petrenko of Ukraine.
   Mr. Petrenko "has matinee idol looks, the girls scream,"
Mr. Goldberg enthuses. And while male figure skaters have
traditionally had little endorsement appeal, he concedes, "if
anyone can break through," Mr. Petrenko can.
   ---
   Philip Morris Rebudgets
                                                                                                       

   Philip Morris Cos., the second-largest U.S. advertiser, is
budgeting a "slight overall increase" in ad spending this
year. But chairman and marketing whiz Michael A. Miles says
he intends to get his money's worth.
   Yesterday, Mr. Miles indicated in a meeting with
securities analysts in Florida that the money behind
campaigns that don't jingle the cash register would be
reallocated. "Where we aren't satisfied with our advertising
-- until we see a way to fix it -- we are shifting dollars
into consumer promotion," he said.
   A company spokeswoman declined to identify those brands.
   Philip Morris spent $2.21 billion in 1990 on ads for
everything from salad dressing to cigarettes, according to
the trade magazine Advertising Age.
   Mr. Miles emphasized spending would increase only for
advertising that "either builds volume profitably or
ferociously defends our core brands and categories." Food
brands getting strong support, Mr. Miles said, include
Jell-O, handled by Young  Rubicam; Miracle Whip and Kraft
cheese singles, handled by WPP Group's J. Walter Thompson;
and pourable salad dressings, handled by Leo Burnett Co.
   Mr. Miles emphasized that marketing support for premium
cigarette and beer brands would continue. "It's It. And
That's That," Leo Burnett's new Miller Lite campaign, is
"improving Lite's awareness, image, and usage measures," he
said.
   ---
   Rosenfeld Scales Back
                                                                                                       

   In the wake of the loss of its big Royal Caribbean Cruise
Line account, New York agency Rosenfeld, Sirowitz, Humphrey 
Strauss is expected to dismiss as many as 40 of the 140
people on its payroll, industry executives say.
   Agency co-chairman Hal Strauss said the staff reductions
wouldn't be that severe, but confirmed that "necessary
cutting back" was under way.
   Meanwhile, Royal Caribbean's abrupt move of its $35
million account to McKinney  Silver of Raleigh, N.C., leaves
another cruise account up for grabs. McKinney had to resign
Kloster Cruise Ltd.'s estimated $25 million Norwegian Cruise
Line account in order to take on Royal Caribbean.
   ---
   Ad Notes. . . .
                                                                                                       

   REEBOK: Reebok Intenational, Stoughton, Mass., signed
Toronto Argonaut wide receiver Raghib "Rocket" Ismail to
endorse its new Pre-season sneaker and apparel line. Mr.
Ismail will appear in commercials set to break in June. Terms
of the contract weren't disclosed.
                                                                                                       

   WHO'S NEWS: Three executive vice presidents at Bayer Bess
Vanderwarker were named managing directors -- Robert Irvine,
54 years old, Richard Corelitz, 42, and G. Brian Goodall, 44.