Duty Free Agrees
   To Buy UETA;
   Stock Rises 14%
   ----
   By Suein L. Hwang
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The acquisition, which will give Duty Free its first
presence in the Mexican border market, is a "tremendous
growth opportunity," declared Skip Helm, an analyst at
William Blair  Co., Chicago. "It clearly raises the
company's profile in the business."
   While the company also operates dutyfree shops in airports
and on cruise ships, Duty Free currently garners over 50% of
its revenue -- which totaled $188 million in the year ended
Jan. 31 -- from the U.S.-Canada border.
   Under terms of the definitive agreement, Duty Free will
acquire UETA, a privately held San Antonio, Texas, company,
through the issuance of 4.35 million shares of Duty Free
stock, which represents about 18% of the total shares
outstanding. Given the jump in Duty Free's shares yesterday,
the transaction is currently valued at more than $225
million.
   According to a company spokesman, the acquisition will
have an immediate positive impact on Duty Free's fiscal 1993
year, increasing earnings per share by "a handful of
pennies." Some analysts have said the addition of UETA's
operations will increase year-end per-share earnings by about
five cents.
   Analysts' estimates for the year ending Jan. 31 have
ranged between $1.28 to $1.35 compared with earnings of $23.8
million, or $1.08 a share, in fiscal 1992.
   The acquisition, subject to approval of UETA shareholders
and clearance by the Federal Trade Commission, will add more
than $150 million in sales to fast-growing Duty Free. UETA
operates about 30 dutyfree stores at 14 border crossings on
the U.S. side of the border with Mexico.
   Duty Free has grown rapidly in recent years, from revenue
of $46 million and net income of $3 million for the year
ended Jan. 31, 1988, to last year's net of $23.8 million and
$188 million in sales.
   With 24 million shares outstanding prior to the proposed
acquisition, the company has a market value in excess of $1
billion. Its stock price has been quite volatile this year
and last, responding to expectations of higher or lower
international travel volumes and to reports of possibly
higher sales and excise taxes on purchases above the $100
Canadian duty-free allowance. It traded as low as the mid
$20s in 1991 and dipped under $40 during February.
   If completed, the UETA transaction would be the latest in
a string of ambitious acquisitions that first gave Duty Free
its presence on the U.S.-Canada border in the late 1980s. The
company is still looking for a way to enter the duty-free
market in the Caribbean, but a spokesman said that no
discussions are under way.
   The latest announcement seems to have only strengthened
Wall Street's interest in Duty Free stock. Despite the
company's soaring stock price, Mr. Helm maintains his "buy"
rating and predicted the merger will increase the company's
earning growth rate another 10% on top of his previous 20% to
25% estimate. "This closes the loop; they now have virtually
all crossings on the northern and southern borders," he said.
Earlier this month, Duty Free's shares climbed after a Morgan
Stanley strategist placed Duty Free on his special list of 10
stocks that were "particularly attractive on a short-term
basis."