Alyeska Pipeline
   Service Criticized
   By an Ex-Inspector
   ----
   By Allanna Sullivan
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
In addition, pressure vessels have been uninspected for
over a decade, leaks and vapor losses exist without regard
for damage to the environment or worker health.
   But possibly the most serious problem, Mr. Plumlee says is
that as a result of shoddy quality control "no one knows the
actual condition of the pipeline."
   The pipeline carries crude oil produced on the North Slope
of Alaska to a terminal in Valdez where it is loaded onto
tankers for shipment to the lower 48 states. One-quarter of
the nation's oil supply is shipped to market via the
pipeline.
   Mr. Plumlee, who has 18 years of experience as a quality
control inspector, was fired from his job with Alyeska in
November after he refused to accept a cut in pay and a
demotion, he says. He has filed a complaint with the Labor
Department and an affadavit with certain U.S. lawmakers,
including Congressman John Dingell (D., Mich.), detailing
what he believes are safety and quality control problems at
Alyeska.
   He is being represented in his actions by the Government
Accountability Project and the Hamel Environmental
Accountability Project. Both groups provide help to
whistle-blowers. Thomas Carpenter, an attorney representing
the two groups, was "especially critical of Alyeska's
harassing, intimidating and interfering with the professional
responsibilities of the pipeline inspectors." Mr. Carpenter
said such harassment in the nuclear industry is considered
criminal.
   A representative of Congressman Dingell says the documents
provided by Mr. Plumlee yesterday are being reviewed. All he
could say for the moment is "the allegations are serious."
   Mr. Plumlee also charges that inspectors at Alyeska have
been intimidated and harassed as they tried to do their jobs.
As a result, some have quit and others have been fired,
including him. The former inspector says that he provided a
file of documents outlining safety and technical problems
within Alyeska to the company's legal department, but it was
returned to him without comment or instructions.
   William Howitt, vice president of engineering who oversees
quality control for Alyeska, said in an interview that he is
confident that Alyeska and government officials know exactly
what's happening on the pipeline. "That no one knows the
condition of the pipeline is untrue," he said.
   Problems with the pipeline aren't new. Within the last few
years, massive corrosion along the 880-mile length of the
pipeline was discovered. A huge piece of pipe at Atigun Pass
was just replaced last spring.
   Alyeska, in Anchorage, Alaska, is a consortium of seven
oil companies which includes Atlantic Richfield Co., British
Petroleum Co. and Exxon Corp.