International -- Washington Insight:
   Would-Be Dictators Are Watching to See
   If OAS Can Restore Democracy in Haiti
   ----
   By Robert S. Greenberger
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Last week, after long negotiations, Mr. Aristide agreed to
accept as his prime minister one of his harshest critics.
That move could prove to be a first step toward Mr.
Aristide's return. But a bitter ratification fight in Haiti's
parliament is likely, and it isn't certain the military will
accept the deal.
   "All the generals in Latin America are watching this
process," says Jean Casimir, who was appointed by Mr.
Aristide to be Haiti's ambassador to the U.S. "It is over
three months {since the military takeover}, and those who
plotted the coup are still in power."
   President Bush has a stake in the restoration of Haiti's
legitimate government. If a prolonged economic embargo
destroys Haiti's fragile economy, refugees could flood into
Florida, creating new tensions and economic burdens in that
state, which holds a presidential primary in March.
   Some Haitians say the administration hasn't applied
pressure on Haiti in the most effective way. Last fall, the
administration said it would consider freezing any U.S.
assets of military officers who participated in the coup, and
of their wealthy Haitian backers. Mr. Casimir also said the
administration was considering temporarily lifting U.S. visas
for these people, who travel frequently to the U.S. to shop
or visit relatives.
   But neither step was taken. A State Department official
said, "The purpose of the embargo was to bring the parties to
the table to get negotiations going to resolve this crisis."
With this process now under way, he said, "we aren't going to
take steps to add to the embargo at this point."
   Rep. Robert Torricelli (D., N.J.), chairman of the House
Foreign Affairs subcommittee on Western Hemisphere affairs,
believes that only the threat of military action by other
nations in the region would persuade those who seized power
in Haiti to restore democracy.
   "There was an opportunity here for the big countries in
Latin America to show that they are ready to collectively
participate in the restoration of a democratic government and
the defeat of a military coup," Rep. Torricelli says. "That
would have put every potential despot in the region on
notice." Now, he says, "it is a lost opportunity."
   Mr. Torricelli and others concede that one difficulty in
getting support for stronger action against Haiti has been
Mr. Aristide's record. He was overwhelmingly elected in
Haiti's first free election and is immensely popular with the
poor. But his fiery rhetoric sometimes incited class
violence. "The democratic process doesn't always produce
perfect results," says Mr. Torricelli.
   With little inclination toward military action, OAS
members formed a consensus on the economic embargo. But it
has been a blunt instrument, punishing mostly the urban poor
and having minimal impact on the privileged. Now, says a
congressional aide, there's concern that the embargo may be
wrecking Haiti's feeble economy beyong repair.
   U.S. officials believed that a key to the embargo would be
blocking shipments of oil to Haiti. Privately, they estimated
last year that Haiti would run out of fuel by December,
bringing the military and its supporters to their knees. But
at least two oil tankers -- one from Europe, which isn't
participating in the embargo, and one from Colombia, which
says it thought the cargo was headed for the Bahamas -- have
slipped through the embargo.
   In Haiti, the intimidation of Mr. Aristide's supporters
continues. Last month, a pirate radio station calling itself
Radio VSN-57, a name once used by the dreaded Tontons
Macoutes secret police during the Duvalier dictatorship,
called for violence against more than 100 Aristide
supporters, according to a report by several organizations,
including Americas Watch, a private human-rights group.
   "If democracy can be restored in Haiti, it would provide a
couple of grains of sand on the side of the balance against
military coups," says Peter Hakim, staff director of the
Inter-American Dialogue, a private group.