First City Bancorp.
   Of Texas Is Said
   To Seek a Rescue
   ----
   By Todd Mason and Kenneth H. Bacon
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
Under the plan, an acquirer would contribute $300 million
to $400 million of new capital. The FDIC, meanwhile, would
absorb losses on questionable assets above an undisclosed
level, but regulators wouldn't close the $10 billion bank.
The "stop-loss" provision would kick in after several years
to prevent the buyer from falling into a "black hole" of deep
losses if Texas real estate values decline sharply from
current levels, people familiar with the plan said.
   According to these people, First City believes its capital
and reserves are adequate to protect the buyer and the
government. A First City spokesman declined comment.
   Such a transaction would be desirable to shareholders,
since their stock would presumably retain some value, rather
than be rendered worthless if regulators close the bank.
Indeed, buoyed by rumors that the bank may be saved, and by
an article in yesterday's American Banker describing parts of
the proposal, First City common shares rose 62.5 cents in the
past week to $2.125 in New York Stock Exchange trading.
   But analysts said that keeping the bank open would present
some formidable problems to acquirers, and several doubted it
would work. Among other things, an open-bank arrangement
would expose buyers to outstanding lawsuits against First
City and lock them into costly leases on bank facilities.
   What's more, it's far from clear that First City will be
able to stanch the flow of red ink before its thin capital
cushion disappears. An earlier rescue effort, led by former
Chicago banker A. Robert Abboud and involving $1 billion in
federal funds, came apart due to First City's heavy exposure
to Texas real estate and risky loans to heavily indebted
companies. First City has posted total losses of $383.1
million in the last two years, leaving it with a 3.1% ratio
of equity to assets.
   "I'm from Missouri on this one," said Sandra J. Flannigan,
a banking analyst with Alex. Brown  Sons. "Buyers are going
to be very, very leery about not being able to break leases
or close off lawsuits."
   Still, despite its troubles, analysts say the company has
a valuable franchise. With 85 branches in Texas, First City
represents the last major entry into the nation's
third-largest state. Several prospective buyers are
understood to be looking at the company, including
BankAmerica Corp. of San Francisco; Banc One Corp. of
Columbus, Ohio; and NationsBank Corp., Charlotte, N.C. All
declined to comment.