In This Match, Some of the Keglers
   Were a Bit Unsteady on Their Pins
   ----
   By Carrie Dolan
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Top score came from a Brooklyn four-year-old, Dominick
Caraciola, who rolled a 114. He bested about 150 other tykes,
including 18-month-old Charlie Zaglin, also of Brooklyn, who
racked up a 10.
   The youngest contender was 16-month-old Riccardo Lippini,
of San Francisco, who spent much of the match crying on his
grandmother's lap. "He wants to go after the ball," she
explained.
   The infantile event was part of the National Bowling
Council's campaign to promote bowling as wholesome family
entertainment, "a way of sharing fun and strengthening
relationships and values." As part of the promotion, later
this month a farm tractor will deliver a load of free bowling
balls for the residents of Bowling Green, Fla.
   Baby-bowl lanes have inflatable "bumpers" to prevent
gutter balls. "It avoids the frustration children used to
feel," said Walter Hall, president of the Bowling
Proprietors' Association of America.
   The California contestants, most of whom were the
offspring of league bowlers, started strong. One compared the
sport favorably with playing with Barbie, and a
three-year-old boy said, "I like bowling with an orange
ball." But, as nap time approached, a few testy competitors
resorted to hitting one another and pleading to return to the
bowling alley's day-care center. One little girl, in tears,
asked a visitor: "Do I have to take another turn?"
   Eighteen-month-old Christopher TongYamashita, whose shirt
read "Monster for Sale or Rent," gave up, exhausted, after
the fourth frame. "I guess at two or two-and-a-half he'll be
bowling more," said his mother, Janice, who bowled a 279
while she was pregnant with him.
   "I had a real good season before the house took me off the
lanes," two weeks before Christopher's birth, she said. "They
were afraid that I'd get too excited while bowling." But she
thinks her son's a natural. "I said he was going to be born
on my league night, and sure enough he was."