Marketing  Media:
   Seven-Up Says
   Coke Campaign
   Is a Real Lemon
   ----
   By Michael J. McCarthy
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Coke is doing so, the lawsuit contends, to persuade some
of the 74 independent bottlers that currently distribute both
Coke and Seven-Up products, to sever ties with Seven-Up.
Bottlers buy concentrate from Coke or Seven-Up, mix it with
carbonated water, bottle and can it, and distribute it in
retail outlets.
   The lawsuit seeks unspecified compensatory damages and
punitive damages of at least $500 million.
   A spokesman at Coca-Cola, based in Atlanta, said the
company hasn't seen the lawsuit and had no comment.
   The complaint underscores the interdependency of the large
soft-drink companies for brands and distribution, and how
their marketing interests can come into sharp conflict.
Independent Coca-Cola bottlers distribute about 7% of
Seven-Up's volume in the U.S.
   At the same time, Coca-Cola has been making a bigger push
into the lemon-lime market, the second-biggest soft-drink
category after cola, with its own Sprite brand. And that push
has paid off. Combining regular and diet versions, Sprite
surpassed Seven-Up in 1988, and drove its lead in the
lemon-lime market last year to nearly 39%, according to the
Maxwell Consumer Report, a trade publication, compared with
31.4% for Seven-Up. Pepsi's Slice accounted for only 11%.
   "Coca-Cola has become a major factor in the lemon-lime
marketplace," says Jesse Meyers, publisher of Beverage
Digest.
   Indeed, the lawsuit argues that once Seven-Up is dropped
by a Coke/Seven-Up bottler, it is very difficult for Seven-Up
to remain an effective competitor in that franchised
territory. The consequence of that is a weaker Seven-Up,
which is already highly leveraged, and less soft-drink
selection and higher prices for consumers, the lawsuit said.
   Seven-Up charged that last March, Coca-Cola approached the
Nacogdoches Bottling Co. in Texas, giving it material with
false and misleading information about Seven-Up. In January,
the Nacogdoches bottler said it planned to cancel its
contract with Seven-Up, ending a 20-year relationship.
Seven-Up said Coke is making similar presentations to other
independent Coke bottlers in Texas and around the country in
an attempt to interfere unlawfully with Seven-Up's contracts
and business relationships.
   Seven-Up said it is asking the court to enjoin Coke from
engaging in additional unlawful conduct.
   Bottlers said that Seven-Up filed the lawsuit because it
so depends on the reach of Coke's distribution systems to get
its products to consumers. "They're fighting to stay with
Coke," said one bottling company executive.
   Seven-Up, based in Dallas, is a unit of Dr Pepper/Seven-Up
Cos.