REVIEW  OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   Species Act, Endangered
-- Congress appears ready to add 18 million acres to the
94 million already in the nation's wilderness reserves, eight
million of the increment coming in the form of California
desert.
   -- The Alaskan wilderness, more than half the country's
total, has been put off-limits to oil drilling a mere six
months after the U.S. fought a war to preserve such access in
the Persian Gulf. Virtually the whole California coastline
has been similarly blocked out.
   -- The new Clean Air Act kicks in, with surprises all
around. California leads the way: Instead of taking off the
road the 10% of autos that cause 80% of the pollution, it
mandates new gasoline formulas that will cost 16 cents more a
gallon.
   -- The timber industry of Oregon is decimated by
restrictions on "old growth" harvesting in the interest of
the lawsuit-protected spotted owl. Northward in Washington --
where the bum economy arrived with sudden force --
hydroelectric-power rates are hostage to a subspecies of
salmon.
   -- The insatiable litigation maw known as Superfund
continues to eat up millions of dollars that long ago could
have cleaned up much of the country's truly toxic waste.
   -- And the terraqueous treasure known as wetlands is
somehow discovered wherever the bulldozers roam, as policy
makers seek to inscribe in bedrock a commitment to "no net
loss" of what we never knew we had.
   The fact that much of the human species is hurting
economically may not count for much with crusading
ecologists, for whom they are not the favorite fauna anyway.
But these Homo sapiens do sometimes cast ballots, and we
suspect the last word hasn't been heard yet on environmental
overreaching.
   Consider the new dynamics around the interesting race next
year for the U.S. Senate in Oregon. Incumbent Bob Packwood,
once green to the toes of his boots, says he'll campaign on
behalf of loggers and other resource users, and against the
excesses of the Endangered Species Act. Some say this is a
cynical pose by a desperate politician, but Oregon elections
aren't usually won by romancing the roughnecks. It's a place,
as Mr. Packwood noted not long ago, where stocking lake trout
was attacked as a form of pollution.
   As that pivotal campaign unfolds, the hallowed Endangered
Species Act itself comes up for renewal in Congress. Mr.
Packwood's senior colleague, Mark Hatfield, predicts a waning
of support for the law as its effects spread beyond the
Northwest timber industry.
   The Oregonian newspaper notes that Mr. Hatfield was one of
the legislation's original sponsors. But now that teary-eyed
federal judges have gotten hold of it, he thinks "it is being
applied far beyond the scope of what any of us who helped
adopt it intended." The act has moved from outlawing the
wanton killing off of a species to barring the disturbance of
vast habitats.
   A pair of judges has brought to a standstill the
old-forest cut in Oregon, while a tangle of other procedures
pits the spotted owl against the loggers. When the issue is
at least partially settled, 30,000 to 60,000 jobs by
conservative estimate stand to be lost (add to that the
loggers' families).
   There are likely to be more such cases. In addition to
about 700 species already listed, an additional 3,500 are in
line for protection. According to a skeptical cover article
about the species act in the January issue of the Atlantic --
another sign of a countercurrent -- 100 million species may
exist, with barely 1% of them yet having a name. World-wide,
we may be losing 50,000 a year, with perhaps 4,000 at risk of
extinction in the U.S. by the end of the century.
   The potential costs of enforcing the act are enormous.
Most of the direct outlays are being eaten up by hyped
species such as the spotted owl, but "recovery" of all those
listed is estimated to run nearly $5 billion over 10 years,
and that doesn't take into account the economic losses
suffered when private and public projects must be stopped.
   In California, an attorney for developers claims that more
than $6 billion is at stake in the listing of a bird called
the gnatcatcher, and notes, "In the nearly two decades of the
act's operation, the Fish and Wildlife Service has never made
an offer of compensation for the destruction of property
rights. . . ." The gnatcatcher is a vexing obstacle, builders
maintain, because Fish and Wildlife says the creature has
only 54,000 acres of habitat left -- but won't identify where
exactly that turf is supposed to be. And while it is saving
the gnatcatchers, California must look out for the Sacramento
Delta smelt, at an estimated $12 billion recovery cost.
   The point that Oregon's Senators and the Atlantic
magazine's authors would make is that priorities need to be
established, both among endangered species and between those
species and man. Moreover, environmental scientists have
sometimes been proved wrong in insisting that particular
habitats were irreplaceable. Remember the snail darter, later
found far away from the Tellico Dam?
   The Supreme Court has ruled "the plain intent of Congress"
in passing the 1973 law was that extinction be stopped in all
cases, regardless of cost. And it's true that the
environmental movement has had a good long run through a
political system willing to indulge its disdain of costs. But
in a functioning political system there are limits to costs.
The movement's willingness to sacrifice tens of thousands of
loggers for an owl may have been the symbolic break point.
   When House Speaker Tom Foley (from Washington state) asked
congressional scientific committees last fall to review the
act with its economic effects in mind, it was yet another
indication that the ground had shifted. The defeat in 1990 of
major environmental initiatives in California and Washington
registered politically, just as science and sometimes the
media reflect intellectual questioning.
   If the Bush administration doesn't flinch, the
reauthorization of the Endangered Species Act will become the
focus of this debate. The pendulum still has quite a ways to
swing back. The greens remain a powerful force. But at any
number of field-study sites, word processors and precinct
meetings, the ecosystem of human decision-making is
undergoing change. A more balanced order cannot come soon
enough.