Baby Bells Face the Growing Threat
   Of Legislation Over Information Services
   ----
   By Mary Lu Carnevale
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Rep. Jack Brooks, chairman of the House Judiciary
Committee, has called for an antitrust approach to
telecommunications legislation. The Texas Democrat is
expected soon to introduce a bill that would limit the Bells'
ability to provide information services or long-distance
service or manufacture telecommunications gear.
   The bill, he indicated, would be based on the principles
of the 1982 consent decree that broke up the Bell System.
That decree barred the seven local phone giants from entering
new markets unless they could show "no substantial
possibility" of using their monopoly power to hinder
competition. The Baby Bells now handle more than 99% of the
local telephone traffic in their territories.
   Such legislation would reverse last year's court decisions
allowing the seven regional phone giants to provide
information services. The same antitrust standard also would
apply to manufacturing and long-distance businesses.
   But at a hearing last week, Mr. Brooks warned Bell
opponents, including newspaper publishers, long-distance
companies, the cable industry, telephone equipment makers and
information service providers, that he would reject any
legislation that doesn't take into account developing
competition. The Bells, he said, shouldn't be "forever
hardened into a mold that is impervious to free-market forces
even if a competitive environment is fostered over time."
   Some interest groups expect Mr. Brooks to get into a
jurisdictional fight over the issue with Rep. John Dingell,
the Michigan Democrat who heads the House Energy and Commerce
Committee. Aides, however, have noted that the two powerful
chairmen are personal friends whose jurisdictions often
overlap. At the hearing, Mr. Brooks told a standing-room-only
crowd to expect consensus.
   The Energy and Commerce Committee's telecommunications
panel has floated a series of draft bills that would allow
the Bells -- with stringent safeguards -- into manufacturing
and information services. A compromise between the two panels
is likely to require the Baby Bells to run new businesses
from separate subsidiaries, limit transactions with the phone
companies and follow strict accounting rules.
   Chairman Edward Markey of the telecommunications panel has
promised to turn to Bell legislation once the committee
finishes thorny legislation to curb runaway cable rates and
inject some competition into that monopoly industry. An aide
to Chairman Dingell even suggested that the Bell legislation
"could be grafted onto a cable bill." That could open the way
for the phone companies to provide cable television
programming, something the White House has advocated.
   Several new forces could propel legislation. Last summer's
court decision allowing the Bells into information services
incited the nation's newspaper publishers, who fear losing
advertising revenue to electronic yellow pages and shopping
services run by Baby Bell information units. They also worry
that phone companies, in an effort to boost their own
information businesses, would give their rivals inferior
phone service.
   Moreover, American Telephone  Telegraph Co., for the
first time, joined the chorus calling for legislation. ATT
is worried that the Bells may soon win court approval to
compete in long-distance service. At the hearing, ATT
Chairman Robert Allen took off the gloves and accused the
Justice Department of "losing its memory and its compass."
Mr. Allen offered the lawmakers a litany of Baby Bell
encroachments on consent decree restrictions -- all with the
approval of the Justice Department. In addition, ATT is
concerned about Bell lobbying power; the phone companies last
June won Senate approval to manufacture telecommunications
gear.
   The Bells' latest tack has been to try to persuade the
courts to allow them into new fields unless it is "certain"
they would lessen competition.