To Be or Not to Be Is the Question,
   And Anything Goes Is the Answer
   ----
   By Suein L. Hwang
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The eclectic group Medicine Show promises six Shakespeare
plays and 30 Cole Porter tunes in less than three hours, and
makes good with the aid of lightning-quick costume changes
and equally fast switches from serious Shakespeare into song.
(A purist might allow that the plays mainly hit the high
points.)
   Picture Macbeth, dressed in clashing plaid sport coat,
pants, socks and tie, surrounded by three similarly
plaid-clad witches, launching into a solo: "You're a Bad
Influence on Me." A half-hour later, Cordelia swears her
loyalty to King Lear with "My Heart Belongs to Daddy."
   Even Shakespeare's darkest moments don't escape
Porterization. In the last scene of "Hamlet," dead characters
strewn across the stage arise to a brisk early Porter ditty,
the "Heaven Hop."
   Medicine Show has never never lacked ambition. Last year
it revived E.E. Cummings's play "Him," an abstract work with
125 roles and a huge elephant above the stage. The concept of
combining Shakespeare with mostly obscure Porter songs came
gradually to the generally serious group. It had finished a
grueling two-year stint doing an Edgar Allan Poe collection
and began performing early Porter musicals to relieve
members' depression.
   "People hated the {Porter} books but liked the songs, so
we finally matched them with books of some value," says
Barbera Vann, co-artistic director. Medicine Show prefers
material from the lesser-known Porter shows, such as "50
Million Frenchmen" and "Paris," because "people do the big
ones all the time," says co-director James Barbosa.
   Thus, the audience encounters a disillusioned Hamlet
violently rejecting Ophelia's attempts to rouse him from his
depression. "Get thee to a nunnery]" he shouts, only to find
the Porter-style Ophelia talking back: "I'm so awfully weary
of doing what I should/Please don't make me be good."
   "Mr. Shakespeare  Mr. Porter Join Forces" is in its
second run on the Lower East Side. Its creators have hopes
for an eventual off-Broadway run -- not to mention a theater
that doesn't have to turn off the noisy heating fan during
performances.