International:
   Coup Was Plotted by Soviet Officials
   Long Before August, Investigators Say
   ----
   By Laurie Hays
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Mr. Gorbachev survived the coup attempt, but it so
weakened his government that he was out of a job anyway
within months as the Soviet Union crumbled and was replaced
by a commonwealth of 11 former Soviet republics.
   The report by Mr. Lisov and Russian prosecutor Valentin
Stepankov didn't offer many new details about the coup,
despite four and a half months of work by a team of
investigators. The trials will begin after the defendants
have had a chance to review the volumes of material compiled
against them and Mr. Lisov indicated he was reluctant to be
more specific about who did what and when, because he didn't
want to prejudice the trial.
   Mr. Lisov emphasized that the plot hadn't been spontaneous
and the idea of taking power from Mr. Gorbachev had been
building as the country became more democratic. As many
observers have already surmised, the final "danger signal"
that swung the plotters into action was the decision to sign
a new union treaty among the Soviet republics on Aug. 19. The
plotters began meeting two days before and worked out a coup
plan, though not on paper, Mr. Lisov said.
   Mr. Lisov said credit for defeating the coup belongs to
Russian President Boris Yeltsin and the Russian people who
stood outside the republic's parliament in Moscow. While many
people, including Mr. Gorbachev and President Yeltsin, have
been interviewed by the investigators, charges were lodged
only against those who actually planned the coup and not
those who supported it politically, Mr. Stepankov said. The
plotters are charged with conspiring to seize power and could
receive the death penalty.
   The 15 were originally charged with high treason, but Mr.
Lisov said their actions didn't fit that charge because it
wasn't clear which country they were betraying as the Soviet
Union no longer exists. A separate investigation is being
conducted on the disappearance of party funds, Mr. Lisov
said.