The Third Death of the Gold Standard
   ----
   By Paul Fabra
However, the need for a sound currency is so deeply linked
with a well-functioning free-market economy that a revival of
the gold standard was urged upon the world by the U.S. itself
after World War II. The world is still reaping the fruits of
this revival in the form of free trade, initiated in the late
1950s and early '60s during the golden age of the General
Agreement on Tariffs and Trade and the beginning of the
European Common Market. But the gold-based Bretton Woods
System collapsed between 1971 and 1973. Since then, the
gold-standard spirit has been best kept alive by the German
Bundesbank.
   The Bundesbank is commonly blamed for high interest rates,
but until recently Germany, along with Switzerland, has been
the country where borrowing -- and especially long-term
borrowing -- was the cheapest in the world. The main reason
this is no longer the case is not reunification but the fact
that German monetary policy fell victim to strong and badly
timed pressures from abroad. An example is the huge creation
of money from 1987 to 1988 as a consequence of the
Bundesbank's support for the dollar and rescue of the French
franc under the Chirac-Balladur government.
   For political reasons, the Bundesbank has been
increasingly obliged to practice what it dislikes most --
dirty floating. A genuine gold standard shares two essential
features with clean floating: It subordinates monetary policy
to the achievement of domestic stability, and it does not
allow a central bank to print money by purchasing foreign
currencies.
   It is argued that by deciding to set up a so-called
"independant" European central bank, the 12 heads of state
and governments convened in Maastricht last month have
adopted the "German model." But they have done so only in a
cosmetic way. It turns out that the best of the Germany's
past 40 years of experience has been discarded. All through
this period Germany, in contrast with its neighbors, has
avoided "stop-go" and the so-called policies of austerity,
indefinitely prolonged under the name of "wage discipline"
and the like. The reason for this has been the Bundesbank's
rapid reaction to any disturbances threatening the reasonable
stability of the purchasing power of its money, whatever the
state of the economy. In short, monetary policy was not aimed
at fine-tuning economic activity.
   The monetary and economic philosophy behind the most
important provisions of the Maastricht agreement takes a
quite different approach. I would call it the "Delors model,"
an ordinary mix of social democracy and second-rate monetary
doctrine inspired by a consensus among international
"experts." To get to the crux of the matter, let's look at
the method of assessing which nations will, in 1997 and
later, be deemed fit to participate in the monetary union.
According to the Maastricht criteria, approved with the
decisive support of France, only France, along with Denmark
and Ireland, could join -- and so renounce forever the option
of devaluation. "Vive le President Mitterrand]" Among the
conditions set, a prominent one is that a country should not
run an "excessive budget deficit." What does that mean?
   Originally, the Germans proposed a criterion that had a
decisive merit: Its fulfillment would have automatically
redressed a government's budget difficulties by allowing only
government investment expenditures to be financed through
deficits, that is to say through borrowing. This solution
renders public capital spending contingent upon the market's
capability and willingness to finance it. To be sure, it also
has its drawbacks. In the real world, the line dividing
ordinary expenditures and investment expenditures is not
clear cut. But this criterion is much clearer than the one
chosen at Maastricht. Moreover, it provides political
accountability because people can understand its meaning
through their own experiences.
   According to the Maastricht agreement, an "excessive"
deficit is basically a deficit exceeding 3% of gross domestic
product. In spite of the modern prejudices in favor of
measurements related to national accounting, there is no
significant relationship between the amount of "sustainable"
borrowing and a country's gross domestic product. In France,
for example, the above mentioned percentage currently stands
at a low 1.5%. But this figure says nothing about the major
handicap in French budgetary policy -- the fact that
servicing the national debt pre-empts a rapidly and ominously
growing share of public expenditures. The percentage of the
public expenditure dedicated to debt-servicing was 12% in
1991 compared to 4% in 1980, and the percentage is still
growing.
   For still more compelling reasons, the Delors approach
ignores what the business of money and credit is all about.
One of the tenets of the Maastricht agreement is that not
only will there be a single currency (or national currencies
"irrevocably" fixed with one another) for the united Europe
but also that the central bank will conduct a single monetary
policy. The rationale for that is that there can be only one
interest rate for assets of the same maturity and risk for
all the participants, whatever the currency denomination of
the assets.
   But this misses the point. It is artificial to devise a
monetary system in which differences in interest rates among
countries will depend only upon "risk," i.e. upon the average
quality of the signatures of the debtors in each participant
country. In the real free market, international interest
rates depend also upon other factors -- which vary from
country to country -- such as the level of wages, the
profitability of investments, budget deficits, tax systems.
   If dollars are commonly used in Moscow, they are surely
not lent there at the same rate as in New York] The
Maastricht agreement cannot be applied without creating
intolerable tensions among nations. For example, on the basis
of a single interest rate, Germany would have to indefinitely
support a French socialist government.
   The European Community has been a success story because
the whole structure was founded upon the understanding that,
even in matters where unanimity is not required, no member
state should be forced into accepting what it considers
dangerous for its own interests. That has provided an
efficient check against both arrogance and over-ambition.
   It is a fact that the Germans are one of the few peoples
in the world who are in love with their central bank. The
mark is widely viewed by the German population as a condition
for prosperity. But Germany in general and Chancellor Helmut
Kohl in particular are also rightly afraid that unified
Germany will be rejected as a "normal" partner by France.
   President Mitterrand has played for months on this "German
uneasiness" in the most outrageous way, with the objective of
imposing upon Bonn the sacrifice of the mark on the false
assumption that the level of interest rates in France is
"dictated" by the gnomes in Frankfurt. (Why was it not so
when the German rates were several points lower than in
France?) By so doing Mr. Mitterrand has satisfied what has
become an obsession for a majority of the French
establishment -- how to curb Germany when it is still
possible to do so. This desire is so emotional that nobody
sees the contradiction with the other French dream: To
transform the EC into a superpower.
   The French obsession with Germany has led to another and
possibly tragic misjudgment. The "strong" mark is viewed as
an instrument for a strong Germany, whereas it has proved to
be, since 1948, a factor of moderation. The money is "strong"
because the government cannot manipulate it at will; it is
strong because credit is allowed to expand in conformity with
the strict practices that would prevail under a gold
standard. That means that German corporations do not have
unlimited power to invest in or buy foreign corporations.
   One cannot wish that Germany will go on being a balanced
country with restrained ambitions and, as the French have
done in Maastricht, introduce into Europe's future the
"socialist national" notion of an industrial policy -- i.e.
subsidized and unchecked industry -- and an ill-defined ECU.
Yet, that was basically the Mitterrand stance.
   ---
   Mr. Fabra writes for the French newspaper, Le Monde.