RTC Attempts
   To Recoup Fees
   Of $1.2 Million
   ----
   By Paulette Thomas
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The hurried attempt to reconcile the books followed the
takeover of 140 SLs nationwide during three months in 1990.
It led to what is probably the biggest blunder by the agency
so far. An RTC spokesman said that several Denver employees
have been reassigned, and several Washington officials have
been sent to Denver to oversee the region.
   "There is no question that this project went awry," Sen.
John Glenn (D., Ohio), chairman of the Governmental Affairs
Committee, said at a hearing to review the contract. "The RTC
circumvented its own contracting procedures."
   A small Denver company, Financial Management Task Force,
was awarded the work, even though its annual revenue was only
$1 million in 1990. The RTC's inspector general is
investigating why the job was given to a small company that
had to hire hundreds of temporary workers for the project.
The agency also has hired an accounting firm to audit the
company's performance.
   The inspector general for the RTC has alleged that $1.2
million in payments to Financial Management Task Force are in
violation of the contract. Most of this disputed sum involves
billing for employee work. Jay Horowitz, a Denver attorney
for the company, said it will fight any attempts by the RTC
to recover those funds. The agency is renegotiating the
contract, and already has wrung out savings of slightly more
than $1 million.
   Agency officials described the contract as a good faith
effort to get a complex job done quickly. Sherwin Koopmans,
western regional vice president for the agency, said that a
competitive bid on the job would have required an additional
four to six months, and the SL books were already
dangerously out of balance with the regional RTC records.
   "We thought we had the authority to do what we did," said
Mr. Koopmans. "It was never our intention to hide anything."
   In Washington, after the contract was awarded, several
officials tried to overturn it. "I knew it was a stretch,"
said David Cooke, the head of support operations at the RTC.
But after the contract was awarded, he said, "I didn't want
to interrupt the work."
   John Adair, inspector general for the RTC, estimated that
the agency might have saved as much as $3.9 million if it put
out the work for competitive bidding.