Moody's Strips
   Triple-A Rating
   Off IBM Debt
   ---
   Computer Maker's Grade
   Drops by Two Notches;
   Firm's Stock, Bonds Slip
   ----
   By Michael W. Miller
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
"IBM just doesn't have the level of dominance it had when
it had the triple-A rating," said Byron Walker, the Moody's
analyst responsible for IBM.
   Moody's downgraded IBM's rating to double-A-2, two notches
below its top rating of triple-A. The new rating affects
about $18 billion of long-term IBM debt, Moody's says.
   A lower credit rating typically raises the cost of
borrowing in the credit markets, and lowers the market value
of bonds outstanding. Prices of IBM 8 3/8% debentures due
2019 were quoted late yesterday at 99 bid, down one-half
point from late Tuesday.
   IBM issued a statement that it was "disappointed" by
Moody's decision. "We believe the impact of this action on
our world-wide financing requirements will be minimal," it
added.
   IBM called its balance sheet "strong" and said it is
confident of its "continued capability to provide sufficient
cash flows to cover interest obligations and dividend
payments."
   IBM shares were quoted at $87.375, down 87.5 cents in New
York Stock Exchange trading. Analysts said any increased
borrowing costs from the downgraded rating wouldn't be
significant to IBM's bottom line. "It's more a psychological
change than a financial change," said Stephen Cohen, an
analyst with SoundView Financial Group Inc.
   Moody's statement about the downgrade cited IBM's
"deterioration in its competitive position and reduced
influence over its customer base." It called IBM's recent
plans to reorganize into more autonomous operating units
"positive for the long term," but added that the changes will
involve short-term costs.
   The rating service added that it still considers IBM "an
exceptionally strong credit" with "a solid balance sheet and
an ability to generate substantial cash flows."
   IBM posted its first ever annual loss in 1991, as it
struggled to cope with a mounting recession and incursions
onto its historical turf from cheaper desktop computers.
   The company has enjoyed a triple-A credit rating ever
since it first entered the debt markets in 1979. Moody's
chief rival Standard  Poor's still has IBM at a triple-A
rating, though last August it changed IBM's outlook to
"negative" from "stable."
   Moody's placed IBM's ratings under review in December. IBM
also appeared to signal that its rating was in jeopardy when
its 1991 annual report failed to include its customary
statement that it intends to maintain its triple-A rating.
   Moody's action removes IBM from an elite fraternity of
triple-A rated companies. Only 13 industrial companies
currently enjoy triple-A ratings from Moody's, a list
dominated by pharmaceutical makers: American Home Products
Corp.; Amoco Corp.; Bristol-Myers Squibb Co.; Emerson
Electric Co.; Exxon Corp.; General Electric Co.; Johnson 
Johnson; Kellogg Co.; Eli Lilly  Co.; Merck  Co.; Minnesota
Mining  Manufacturing Co.; Pfizer Inc.; and United Parcel
Service of America Inc.
   Moody's downgrade from triple-A to double-A-2 affected
senior debt of IBM and two units: IBM Credit Corp. and IBM
International Finance N.V. It also downgraded IBM convertible
subordinated debt to double-A-3 from double-A-1.