Politics  Policy:
   Windy City Democrats, Victims of Redistricting,
   Swap Bitter Blasts as Political Traditions Clash
   ----
   By David Rogers
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
"Marty Russo writes the laws. And Bill Lipinski breaks
them," reads a Russo flier accusing his rival of hustling
public employees and enriching himself at taxpayer expense. A
Lipinski radio ad, scheduled to air today, recites a long
list of corporate campaign contributions to Mr. Russo and
then tells voters bluntly, "He's for sale. Are you?"
   The campaign is a classic case of inside-the-Beltway vs.
inside-the-district politics. Mr. Lipinski, a 54-year-old
member of the Public Works Committee, embodies Chicago's old
political machine. After a decade in the House, his greater
power still stems from his position as leader of the 23rd
Ward; his congressional staff has contributed thousands of
dollars to his ward organization. Mr. Russo, a 48-year-old
former prosecutor, was swept into office in the
post-Watergate election of 1974; with his seat on the Ways
and Means Committee, he symbolizes a more modern breed of
politics based on PACs rather than precinct captains.
   While Mr. Lipinski tends to local issues, "Marty's all
national," says Mike McKeon, Mr. Lipinski's pollster. "We
discuss roads and bridges, Marty talks about national health
insurance."
   Few cities but Chicago could still offer such a matchup.
And few races better illustrate how perceptions of power can
shift in this year of angry, anti-Washington politics. In
today's climate, Mr. Lipinski emerges as less a ward boss
than as modest "Bungalow Bill," the perennial alderman. By
comparison, Mr. Russo is hurt by his high profile in
Congress, and by the charge that he is part of a cosmopolitan
elite that has forgotten its roots.
   "They have become what they were against," Mr. Lipinski
says of his rival and others in the same post-Watergate
class. A Lipinski leaflet on Rep. Russo's "fast life" lists
trips abroad and thousands of dollars in golf clothes from
corporate interests. A radio ad punctuated with the refrain
"Barbados" cites an ABC News report on Mr. Russo's travels
with Ways and Means colleagues in the Caribbean. A brochure
reprints resort photos from the same report with the message:
"It's not where they were that Easter Sunday, it's what they
did that is unforgiveable."
   In Washington, Mr. Lipinski drives a racy Fiat with vanity
plates and is close to Majority Leader Richard Gephardt. But
he prefers to maintain a low public profile in a style
tailored to the "us" vs. "them" politics of these
neighborhoods. His inner sanctum here -- a striking
black-and-chrome room with handsome reproductions of the
stylized Barcelona chairs designed by Chicago's Bauhaus
architect Mies van der Rohe -- is tucked away in a warren of
nondescript offices.
   He maintains close relations with Michael Madigan, the
taciturn speaker of the Illinois House and leader of the ward
neighboring his own. Most of the 80 precincts under Mr.
Madigan are now represented by Mr. Russo, but in what many
see as a fateful decision, the speaker has cast his lot with
his fellow ward leader, Mr. Lipinski.
   Mr. Russo isn't without resources. He is expected to
outspend Mr. Lipinski by a 3-to-1 margin; already, he has
raised more than $500,000 from PACs, and has lent his own
funds to support the campaign. Still, Mr. Russo, a muscular,
sometimes bullying man, can seem almost boyish next to the
stern-faced organization pitted against him.
   Ironically, he has prospered in the House by being
identified with Chicagoans' legendary toughness. But now he
finds himself under attack as being out of touch with those
very Chicagoans. "I haven't forgotten my roots," he says
angrily. But while Mr. Lipinski recites each mundane detail
of the public-works dollars he has brought home, Mr. Russo is
still struggling to adapt to the local concerns of
recession-minded voters
   "Nobody ever expected me to win," he says, looking back.
"I've had a good run, 18 years. I was never supposed to be
here anyway."
   To win, Mr. Russo must hold down the margins in the city
wards if he is to recover in the surburbs. But the power of
the machine is already seen in a concerted effort to purge
some voters from the rolls and facilitate thousands of
absentee ballots for others. "I take my orders from Mr.
Madigan, he's a classy guy," says a precinct captain who has
helped Mr. Russo in the past but will now back his rival.
"The tide is going with Mr. Lipinski. Nothing personal.
Basically, he's from the neighborhood."