Deadline Looms While Congress Dozes
   ----
   By Bob Dole
Unfortunately, a lot of congressional Democrats need to
get their hearing checked. Congress is striking zero. Zero --
at midnight, that's how many days will remain in President
Bush's challenge to Congress for action on a responsible
economic growth package. Zero is what the Democrat-controlled
Congress will have to show for its efforts. And zero is what
the American people have every right to call a Congress that
has put the political goals of the Democratic majority above
those of the nation.
   The American people don't care who's up and who's down
politically. They have no interest in the ongoing winter
Olympics on Capitol Hill where the world-class game of
politics-as-usual has once again earned no medals for
achievement or courage.
   I would be the first to admit that none of the short-term
economic growth plans is going to make the economy rocket out
of the blocks. I would also be the first to admit that, like
it or not, partisan politics is a fact of life in Washington.
But there are times when we should be able to take some
positive action, to do it without raising taxes, and to do it
within a reasonable period of time -- especially when you
consider all the encouraging signs from many sectors of the
economy. It appears there is a recovery getting underway --
slowly yes, too slowly for many, and still a long way to go.
But there are solid indications of a pick-up in real estate,
construction, factory output, the lowest trade deficit in
nearly a decade and an inflation rate that remains under
control.
   That's why President Bush was right to stay away from tax
increases, and to stay on the path of targeted, common-sense
growth incentives.
   With his March 20 deadline for action, President Bush made
a reasonable request -- and Congress is flunking the test.
Instead of getting timely action, the American people were
treated to the Democrats' cynical class warfare rhetoric:
Republicans are "protecting the rich," the president of the
United States just doesn't care about domestic issues, and
that Democrats are the good guys, ready to soak the rich,
sock it to business and save the middle class. Coming from
the party that just about taxed the middle class out of
existence and fought Ronald Reagan's tax cuts every step of
the way, it all sounds more than a little hokey.
   The good news is, the American people are too smart to
fall for gimmicks. A lot of congressional Democrats didn't
fall for them, either -- so many, in fact that despite big
majorities in both houses, the Democrats' own tax plans
passed by anemic margins of 11 votes in the House and three
votes in the Senate.
   What were the Democrats afraid of? Perhaps they feared
that they might look "weak" meeting a deadline. Perhaps they
feared the president's plan might actually help improve the
economy, save jobs and help businesses up and down Main
Street, and that the president might even get some of the
credit. If you ask me, the Democrats had a chance to share in
the credit -- they could have been part of the solution by
joining with the president. Regrettably, Congress chose to be
part of the problem.
   Oh, the Democrats were very accommodating, they will tell
you, willing to include "modifications" of the president's
growth initiatives in their proposal. Their idea of growth
was to deny benefits to more than 80% of first-time
homebuyers by limiting the $5,000 homebuyer tax credit to the
purchase of new homes only, and to sock small businesses with
a big tax increase, taking 89% of their bill's revenue from
unincorporated business income, despite the fact that small
businesses create 60% to 80% of all new jobs every year.
Let's face it, the Democrats held any solid growth incentives
hostage to a tax increase -- no tax increase, no growth bill
was their bottom line.
   The last time I checked, the Democrats had their way at
1990's so-called Budget Summit, winning tax hikes on working
and earning America, including the misguided luxury tax,
which promised to squeeze an avalanche of greenbacks from the
rich, but instead buried many middle-class workers in pink
slips. Ask the folks building and selling boats, cars,
planes, furs and jewelry on the Democrats tax hit list, and
they will tell you their jobs are necessities, not
"luxuries."
   These days, you don't hear the Democrats brag much about
their Budget Summit "achievements." In fact, many are
demanding we tear down the "fire wall" of protection against
deficit spending.
   In his inaugural address, President Bush said he didn't
come to Washington to bicker with Congress. Well, the zero
Congress hasn't lived up to its end of the bargain. So don't
be surprised if one of this year's big campaign issues isn't
who's protecting the so-called rich, but who's protecting the
status quo. I challenge my colleagues -- Republicans and
Democrats -- to look at the polls, listen to the people, and
learn from this week's votes: the American people are tired
of politics-as-usual on Capitol Hill. American taxpayers are
paying us to create jobs, not create excuses. It's time to
put America first, America second, and politics last -- for a
change.
   In their effort to embarrass the president, the Democratic
majority has embarrassed no one but itself. For the no-show
performance on economic growth, the president and the
American people have no one to blame but the folks inhabiting
ground zero.
   ---
   Sen. Dole of Kansas is Republican leader in the Senate.