Technology:
   Claim Is Made
   For Improving
   Display Screens
   ----
   By G. Pascal Zachary
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Skeptics say the company has a long way to go before
demonstrating that its unorthodox approach will win a
following in an area dominated by Japanese industry. The
company's concept involves lifting the performance of
"passive" liquid crystal displays (LCDs) toward the quality
range of the far more expensive "active-matrix" LCDs, in
which the Japanese lead.
   "This sounds like a baroque approach that defies easy
analysis," said Richard Flasck, president of RAF Electronics
Corp., a display engineering concern in San Ramon, Calif.
"They should have to prove to me."
   Even In Focus says it needs to make further improvements
in its technique and won't introduce products based on it
until next year. Still, the company's success would be a
significant sign that the U.S. is gaining strength in the
closely watched and politically charged field of display
technology. Last year, the U.S., which is trying to encourage
domestic suppliers of displays, slapped import duties on some
Japanese-made displays because they had allegedly been sold
in the U.S. at below production cost. Supporters of the move
claim that U.S. electronics companies are at a crucial
disadvantage if they don't have domestic supplies of
displays.
   More than a decade ago, the U.S. ceded leadership in this
important field to Japanese industry. But recently, a slew of
American companies have shown a renewed interest in designing
and making displays. Just last month, Micron Technology Inc.,
a big U.S. chip maker, rescued a struggling domestic display
maker in hopes of cracking this potentially lucrative market.
   The invention by In Focus, which is expected to be
announced today, is considered novel because, without adding
much to the cost of manufacturing, it improves the video
capability of passive LCDs. In the past decade, Japanese
electronics companies collectively have spent billions of
dollars to develop active-matrix color displays that are just
now being built into notebook computers.
   Partly because Americans are so far behind the Japanese in
active-matrix, they are trying to improve older and simpler
display technology. "Generally, the approach that Americans
have been taking is to concentrate on clever ways to wring
more performance out of passive LCDs. {In Focus} has hit on a
clever idea," said Tom Long, executive director of the
American Display Consortium, a U.S. group that doesn't
include In Focus but is familiar with its research.
   Passive LCDs are widely used in everything from Nintendo's
portable Game Boy to wristwatches to notebook computers. But
today's passive LCDs usually turn into mush when trying to
display moving pictures, especially color ones. The drawback
of active-matrix, which display video images that seem almost
as crisp as those shown on conventional televsion screens, is
cost. These screens add about $2,000 to the price of a
notebook computer.
   "If {In Focus} can truly get that kind of performance, you
wouldn't need expensive active-matrix screens," said Sol
Sherr, a consultant in Old Chatham, N.Y., who hasn't seen a
demonstration of In Focus invention but specializes in
display technology.
   Mr. Sherr said that the advance in LCDs, if successfully
commercialized, could cut the price of a notebook computer
with multimedia or video capabilities by at least one-third
on models priced at more than $5,000. Today, the
active-matrix screen is the single most expensive part of
high-end notebooks.
   Paul Gulick, vice president of technology at In Focus,
said the company has only demonstrated its new approach in
the laboratory. He said the company, which currently makes
screens for high-end projection systems, will introduce
projection products employing the technology next year. But
he said the company lacks the resources to produce finished
screens for use in computers, so it wants to license its
techniques to screen manufacturers and systems makers.
   Several major manufacturers of display screens are
discussing the possibility of licensing technology from In
Focus, Mr. Gulick said, including Seiko-Epson, a leading
Japanese display-screen maker.
   "It is clear {In Focus's} approach has tremendous merit,"
said an executive with Seiko-Epson, which is a group of many
companies. The executive, who asked not to be named, said the
company has been favorably impressed with demonstrations of
the technology.
   Mr. Gulick said the heart of In Focus's invention involves
mathematical formulas, or algorithms, that are hard-wired
into the electronic drivers that control the liquid crystals
sandwiched in between glass making up the screen. By applying
different signals to the liquid crystal, In Focus is able to
take advantage of faster materials, which can handle
video-speeds, while still maintaining high-contrast ratios.
It is generally believed that speeding up passive liquid
crystals will result in diminished contrast, or a poor
picture.
   In Focus reported earnings of $709,000, or eight cents a
share, on revenue of $12.7 million for its fourth quarter
ended Dec. 31. For the year, the company earned $4.7 million,
or 53 cents a share, on revenue of $49.5 million.