Two Whitney Partners Resign in Split
   Over Interest in Ailing Prime Computer
   ----
   By William M. Bulkeley
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The dissension at Whitney, a closely held New York firm
that owns most of Prime's stock through its DR Holdings Inc.
unit is further evidence of the shaky condition of Prime and
the risks of LBO's in the cyclical, investment-intensive
computer industry.
   Whitney also wrote down its $105 million equity investment
in the Natick, Mass., computer firm, said Steven Galante,
editor of Private Equity Analyst, a West Newton, Mass.,
newsletter that first reported the changes. "Prime has been a
distraction for the Whitney organization," he said.
   Whitney partners failed to return numerous phone calls.
Prime said that Whitney's managing general partner, Benno C.
Schmidt, and two other partners, Peter Casselman and James
MacDonald, resigned from Prime's board. John Cunningham,
former president of Wang Laboratories Inc. and Andrew Sage,
former managing partner of Lehman Brothers, were added to
Prime's board leaving one seat vacant.
   Prime's largest creditor is Shearson Lehman Brothers Inc.,
a unit of American Express Corp. that led the LBO and wasn't
able to refinance a $500 million bridge loan when the junk
bond market collapsed just after the deal was completed. A
Shearson spokesman said the firm hasn't written down the debt
and considers it as good as money "based on Prime's
projections." Two Shearson employees remain Prime board
members. However, Shearson has written down the $66 million
value of its Prime stock to $10 million.
   Prime's $1.24 billion in debt has bogged it down. In its
most recent financial report, it reported a loss for the
third quarter ended Sept. 30 of $50.5 million on a 17% sales
decline to $315.8 million from $378.7 million.
   Prime is restructuring by slashing its computer
manufacturing business and focusing on selling software,
especially the computerized design products made by its
Computervision subsidiary. Since the LBO, Prime's employment
has been cut to 7,000 from 12,700. Much of its debt has been
restructured to permit payment in kind rather than in cash
until 1995.
   Nevertheless, Standard  Poor's Corp. last month cut
Prime's debt rating to triple-C-minus from triple-C.
   For Whitney, one of the nation's oldest professional
venture capital firms, the Prime problems are embarrassing as
well as financially painful. It hadn't had much experience in
leveraged buy-outs when Messrs. Planitzer and Ackerman
convinced other partners to serve as the white knight
rescuing Prime from a hostile takeover offer by raider
Bennett LeBow.
   But buying Prime involved "three initial problems -- there
was a high initial purchase price; interest rates were high
and principal payments were high," said Mr. Cunningham, the
new board member. "If you strip out the debt, it's a pretty
well run business. The problem is they have tremendous debt
service."