Enterprise -- Talking Strategy:
   SCOR Funding Provides Short Form for Going Public
   ---
   Process Helps Small Firms Tap Markets
   With Less Difficulty and Expense
   ----
   By John R. Emshwiller
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Created in the late 1980s by government regulators and
securities attorneys, SCOR now is available in 21 states,
about double the number only two years ago. (SCOR is also
known as ULOR, for Uniform Limited Offering Registration.)
SCOR enables small companies to go public with less
difficulty and expense than a traditional securities offering
usually involves.
   Consider the situation at Spokane Pres-To-Log, a
40-year-old maker of logs from waste wood. The Spokane,
Wash., company was acquired about three years ago by an
investment group and needed funds to expand, says President
Gary Schroeder. Banks didn't seem interested and venture
capitalists wanted too big a stake in the company, he says.
So, Pres-To-Log is making a $1 million SCOR offering in three
states -- Washington, Idaho and Montana.
   Mr. Schroeder says that if all 200,000 shares,
representing a 25% stake in the company, are sold, the cost
of the offering will be about $130,000 -- roughly half the
cost quoted him for a traditional offering. Most of
Pres-To-Log's costs come from using a broker to market the
SCOR offering.
   Nobody appears to know the total number of SCOR financings
nationwide. But authorities think SCOR is still so
little-known that only a few dozen small companies have tried
it. All the same, SCOR use is picking up, despite drawbacks
such as the absence of an active aftermarket for SCOR
securities. Washington state, by all accounts the SCOR
leader, says it received 14 applications last year, compared
with four in the program's first year in 1988.
   Moreover, proponents believe SCOR is about to come into
its own. For instance, the Pacific Stock Exchange has asked
the Securities and Exchange Commission to permit it to list
smaller companies that go public through the SCOR process.
   The Pacific exchange's proposal would "be a big step
forward {and} spark more {SCOR} offerings," says Drew Field,
a San Francisco consultant and the author of a recent book
about companies going public.
   With the economy in the doldrums and credit tight,
government officials and others are scrambling to help small
businesses tap into the equity markets, particularly with the
recent surge in stock prices. SEC Chairman Richard Breeden
recently said greater access to capital markets for small
firms is one of his top priorities for 1992.
   SCOR proponents take heart in such developments.
Eventually, SCOR "will be a very major thing in capital
formation in the U.S.," says Greg Toms, manager of the
small-business section of the Washington state securities
division.
   But even proponents say the SCOR process isn't suited to
every small company. A company can raise a maximum of only $1
million from each offering. Moreover, each share must be sold
for at least $5. These rules -- which means that no more than
200,000 shares can be offered -- are aimed at making the
stock less attractive to stock manipulators. It is easier and
cheaper for crooks to double the price of a five-cent stock
than of a five-dollar stock, regulators say.
   SCOR was created as an alternative to existing methods of
going public. One such method is merging with a publicly
traded shell company. But this has drawbacks. For one thing,
the entrepreneur has to accept the shell's existing
shareholder base, which could turn out to be a group of stock
scammers. There were so many frauds perpetrated through shell
companies in recent years that regulators look "askance" at
shell companies, Mr. Toms says.
   A company can also make an initial public offering
registered with the SEC. But on a $1 million offering, a
company could pay as much as $100,000 in legal fees to meet
SEC disclosure and auditing requirements, says Mr. Toms, the
Washington state regulator.
   Of course, an entrepreneurial firm can avoid an SEC filing
by selling stock in just one state -- and deal with that
state's securities regulators. While this could cut down the
cost, however, it also severely limits the market. If, by
mistake or otherwise, stock was sold to a resident of another
state, that would violate SEC rules and "could jeopardize the
entire offering," Mr. Toms says.
   SCOR allows for a multiple-state stock offering with only
minimal notification to the SEC. There is a standardized SCOR
disclosure statement. The form has 50 questions about the
company's business, finances, marketing strategy and
management. This fill-in-the-blanks approach aims to break
down the "jargon and abstractions" that go with an SEC
disclosure statement, says Mike Liles, a Seattle securities
attorney who helped design the SCOR form.
   On SCOR offerings, "we have seen legal costs as low as
$5,000," says Ron Schutz, an investment specialist with
Washington state. There are also generally less stringent
accounting requirements in a SCOR offering, adds Washington's
Mr. Toms.
   Moreover, some states give free counseling on how to fill
out the SCOR document. With Washington state's help, Laser
Fabrication almost completely avoided using attorneys, says
company co-owner Schyler Mitchell. Mr. Mitchell says that so
far his firm has tentative commitments from friends and
others to buy about $300,000 of stock.
   Although some companies market SCOR stock themselves,
others use brokers. Dr. Cookie Inc., a Bothell, Wash., cookie
company, had planned to sell $500,000 of stock in a 1989 SCOR
offering, but ended up raising only $175,000. "Selling takes
a lot of time, which {we} didn't have running a growing
business," says Gail Yarnall, general manager. Dr. Cookie is
planning a new SCOR offering, seeking $625,000, and intends
to use a broker this time, she adds.
   Going it alone in the selling process works best for
concerns with a large group of customers or employees as the
potential investors, companies find. Real Goods Trading Co.,
a Ukiah, Calif., mail-order retailer, is making an 11-state,
$1 million SCOR offering by targeting about 15,000 customers.
The firm already has sold over $800,000 in stock to more than
600 investors, says John Schaeffer, Real Goods founder and
president.