Peasant Power:
   A Dash of Capitalism
   Just Might Help China
   Control Its Population
   ---
   Businesses for Poor Women
   Include Discussion Groups
   That Aid Family Planning
   ---
   Mrs. Liu's Hopes Lie in Pigs
   ----
   By James McGregor
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
It isn't easy to fool this Filipino aid worker, who is
leading a United Nations effort to rescue China's rural
family planning program. The Chinese government is finding it
ever harder to strong-arm Chinese women into limiting their
families, especially in the impoverished hinterlands. So
instead of force, Ms. Villareal has concocted a program that
combines gentle persuasion with hard cash.
   By mixing IOUs, IUDs and the profit motive, she is
penetrating the outback of the world's last Communist giant
with an innovative program. Contraceptive Capitalism, you
could call it.
   The details are complex, but the idea is simple: Turn
unschooled peasant women into entrepreneurs, making them too
busy, and too successful, to want to have broods of babies.
"You can't move the Chinese unless there's money involved, no
matter what they say about Mao and all that," says the
56-year-old Ms. Villareal. "I knew I needed a capitalist way
that fit well in this socialist society."
   Despite one of the strictest birth-control programs in the
world, overpopulation continues to be China's paramount
problem. China has as many people -- some 1.15 billion -- as
Europe and North America and South America combined. It grows
by 46,000 people a day. Chinese researchers say the country's
land mass and resources are best suited for a maximum
population of about 700 million.
   China estimates that since its strict one-child policy
began in 1979, the country has avoided 200 million births.
But the program has incurred severe criticism for its harsh
sanctions, including heavy pressure to have abortions. And in
any case, the policy now is crumbling where it most matters
-- in the countryside, where 70% of people live. Nowhere is
the fragile equation of Chinese life -- supporting 22% of the
world's population on 7% of the world's arable land -- more
visible than the unforgiving farmlands of the remote
northwest.
   Here in Gansu Province, a vast moonscape of dry gulches
and hardscrabble farms, the soil is so parched that it
crackles underfoot. Farmers scatter rocks on their fields to
catch condensation when night turns to day. Yet this land of
cave dwellings, mud huts and minority tribes is swamped with
children. They have dirt-smeared faces, tattered clothing and
the hard-eyed stare of the malnourished. Many families have
three or four, some have five or six.
   Perhaps partly because the breakup of communes has given
these peasants a sense of economic independence, they have
been returning to large families, on the premise that more
children mean a better life -- extra field hands, and care in
old age. In fact, it is a vicious circle, says Yuan Shaofu, a
Beijing economic development official: "The more children
they have, the poorer they become, and the poorer they
become, the more children they have. We have to link the
peasant's interests with the state's."
   The U.N. system does this by concentrating not on
penalties but on profits. It works in a circuitous way by
lending money to rural enterprises, whose loan repayments are
channeled to women's groups. Armed with this borrowed cash,
the women turn into entrepreneurs.
   Along the way, loan interest is used to establish women's
clinics and training classes for child care, family planning,
literacy and personal finance. The idea is to build small
economic systems run by women in poor villages. In turn, the
women's groups provide a forum for peer pressure to promote
family planning.
   Why not simply start the women's groups and skip the loans
and entrepreneurship? The answer is, as Ms. Villareal
realized, that the Communists would never accept outsiders
organizing citizens' groups. But she knew that foreign
investors often can call their own shots. So she turned birth
control into an investment program. "To get to this level in
China, I've had to buy my way in," she says. "There is no way
we could just come in here and form women's groups."
   The program was patched together through trial-and-error
by Ms. Villareal, whose varied background seems to help her
instinctively figure out a place as confusing as China. She
spent much of her childhood slogging through the Philippine
jungles with her father's band of anti-Japanese guerrillas.
In the 1960s, she was a nun in America, working as a
psychological counselor and studying economics at Fordham
University. Today, she shuffles about dusty Chinese villages
in white sneakers and pressed blue jeans, a cigarette always
dangling from her lips.
   Ms. Villareal calls the shots on the U.N. Population Fund
investments, which now total $5.8 million in 36 factories in
six Chinese provinces. In Longxi County, the U.N. backed a
carpet factory and a noodle factory, which Ms. Villareal
found with the help of China's trade ministry. The U.N.
donated the money to the county, which lent it to the
factories. They must repay in three annual installments.
   A clinic in each factory is set up as a family planning
and health-care center. They have links to other communities.
The carpet factory has spread into remote mountain villages
where some 750 women make carpet pieces. More than 8,000
peasant families now supply potatoes and wheat to the
vermicelli noodle factory. The factory's byproduct waste
feeds pigs.
   Pigs like those raised by Liu Lifang. Perched on a tiny
wooden stool in her one-room, mud-walled home, Mrs. Liu
watches her two-year-old toddle across the dirt floor. She
says he will be her only child.
   "My parents had six children. My husband has five
brothers. But if we follow this tradition of a big family,
our lives won't get any better," the red-cheeked 26-year-old
says. "I need to spend my time earning money to improve our
lives."
   Mrs. Liu says that her focus has changed from raising
babies to tending pigs. Like most of her neighbors, she and
her husband are accustomed to living on the edge. In good
years, they have earned near the $60 annual per capita income
in this impoverished region by growing watermelons and wheat.
But in her women's group, Mrs. Liu studied loans along with
birth control and literacy.
   The women were given a year to devise new sources of
income for their villages. Then, when the factory repaid its
first loan installment to the county, the county lent the
money to the women's groups. Mrs. Liu borrowed some of it to
buy pigs. Now she has 14. She says she spends about the yuan
equivalent of $55 to purchase and raise a pig that sells for
$85 to far-wealthier Chinese in the cities.
   As the money rolls in, she sketches her plans for a new
home. It will be a three-room house made of bricks, concrete
and wood instead of straw and mud. Mrs. Liu figures that by
1995 she will have saved the $1,500 she needs to build it.
   Other groups are using their loans not to buy pigs but to
make handicrafts or plant new varieties of crops. Like the
factories' loans, the women's loans must be repaid in three
annual installments, with the money then re-lent to other
groups.
   "Women are asking when we are going to start another group
-- everybody wants to get in," says Li Yuzhuo, the leader of
Mrs. Liu's group. "The women learn how to earn money and they
also give each other a lot of peer pressure not to have too
many children."
   This program could be important to U.N. family planners as
well as to China. The U.S. in the mid-1980s canceled its $46
million annual contribution to the U.N. Population Fund to
protest China's heavyhanded policies. But U.N. population
workers have stayed in China, trying to soften the
government's worst tendencies.
   "Imagine the starvation and horror if China didn't do
family planning" at all, says Sterling Scruggs, director of
the U.N. fund's Beijing office. He argues that "the U.N. has
exposed the Chinese program to global influences and
principles."
   The U.N. is working to reduce abortions by pumping money
into modern contraceptive factories. Some 60 million women
use a Chinese-made steel ring IUD that has a failure rate of
more than 10%. This alone leads to most of China's 10 million
to 11 million abortions a year. The U.N. is financing
factories for "Copper T" IUDs, which are more reliable.
   "Look, our central planning system has problems," says
Wang Bing, a senior Gansu economic development official, as
he walks by young women sitting on straw mats bundling
noodles for packaging. "The U.N. coming in here acts as a
catalyst. It gets us all to cooperate and brings in new ideas
and skills that get things moving."
   The U.N. program has been operating less than two years,
so it is impossible to tell whether participants will stick
to the one-child policy that is strongly encouraged by their
women's groups. But officials from the U.N., the trade
ministry and the Agricultural Bank of China have discussed
the possibility of China duplicating the U.N. program with
domestic bank loans.
   "You can't change things in China or anywhere else unless
you can first show them a way," says Ms. Villareal. "The good
thing about China is that if they see something that works,
you don't have to tell them to expand it."