International:
   Business and Government Leaders Lose
   Patience as GATT Talks Remain Stalled
   ----
   By Tim Carrington
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Juergen Moellemann, Germany's economics minister, called
for a special summit of the Group of Seven industrialized
nations if the trade talks remain stalled in the spring.
Others said that might be too late. Richard Cooper,
international economics professor from Harvard University,
said he doubted that yet another G-7 endorsement (there have
been five since the talks began) would help much, unless the
heads of state threatened to complete the intricate
negotiations themselves. "The threat of having heads of
government close this deal would be enough to goose the
negotiators," he reasoned.
   Behind the joking, however, there's considerable anger
over the logjam, and much of it is directed at European
farmers, widely perceived to be the chief impediment to a
compromise.
   "The money we earn on industrial trade is used to pay for
subsidies for unacceptable agricultural policies," said Mr.
Moellemann. "We're paying subsidies for the production of a
surplus, and we are paying subsidies for the storage of a
surplus, and we are paying subsidies to sell it at
belowmarket prices. If our international trading system is
the victim of this, it's really ridiculous."
   This and other statements of exasperation suggest that
even if Europe's vocal farm lobbies manage to hang on to
their generous supports at the expense of the GATT talks,
they will have lost an immeasurable level of good will and
patience.
   And while farmers, representing less than 5% of the
European Community economy, have dominated the trade debate
so far, other businesses are getting involved, albeit at the
11th hour. Harald Einsmann, president of Procter  Gamble
Europe, said he has launched a letter-writing campaign to
businesses his company deals with in hopes they'll work to
offset the farmers, who have mounted periodic demonstrations
against the GATT trade deal, which would bring about deep
cuts in trade-distorting farm subsidies.
   It's estimated that the EC devotes about 1.5% of its gross
national product to farm subsidies. The EC's common
agricultural program doesn't just cost EC taxpayers and
consumers billions of dollars, but it chokes off farmers from
places such as Argentina, New Zealand and Poland.
   But business leaders at Davos felt that European farmers
aren't the only threat to expanding global trade. Many are
equally worried about American politicians, some of whom have
taken to blaming the U.S. recession on other countries, such
as Japan. Their America-first rhetoric has sparked fears
elsewhere in the world that if Europe can't stop extending
favors to farmers, and America turns inward, international
trade could stagnate.
   U.S. Sen. Bill Bradley acknowledged the protectionist
voices in his country, but the Democrat made an impassioned
pitch himself for negotiators to close the GATT trade deal,
which wouldn't just affect farms but would bring services
under the multilateral trade system, as well as intellectual
property, such as patents and drug formulas.
   "Time's running out," Sen. Bradley warned. "This GATT
negotiation will play the same role that the Bretton Woods
agreement did after World War II: It'll set the path for the
next generation." (The Bretton Woods pact provided for the
formation of the International Monetary Fund.)
   Government and business leaders also focused considerable
attention on the formation of trade blocs: a European bloc; a
North American bloc, and an Asian bloc. Increasingly business
leaders seem assured that a world arranged in trade blocs
isn't necessarily a world shackled by protectionist rules.
None of the blocs views itself as even potentially
self-sufficient, and each needs relatively open trade with
the rest of the world.
   But global companies are counting on GATT to keep the
blocs from reverting to the exclusionary tendencies that,
say, the German-East European-South American bloc practiced
in the 1930s.
   "There lurks in regionalism the danger that it could
become exclusive," says Harvard's Mr. Cooper. "In the context
of a failed GATT round, a reversion is more imaginable."