Winter Olympics 1992:
   Scalps in the Alps, Izdag's Zigzags
   And Other Tales of the 5-Ring Circus
   ----
   By Roger Thurow and Craig Forman
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
"It's very sad for my fans," said Ms. Bournissen, a cheery
smile masking any disappointment. "But I am an athlete. And
sometimes skiers fall."
   Contemplating life beyond these Olympics, she summoned the
optimism of Scarlett O'Hara and shrugged, "Tomorrow is
another day."
   The day after tomorrow, the five-ring Winter Olympic
circus folds its tent and leaves the global village for two
years. Ms. Bournissen and many other athletes will rejoin the
World Cup circuit. Ray LeBlanc, the nimble goaltender who has
led the surprising Americans to the hockey semifinals, will
return to his minor-league team in Indianapolis. Coffee in
the French Alps will once again cost one dollar instead of
three.
   The conventional way of judging Olympic performances is to
count medals. But there are other ways:
                                                                                                       

   The Falling-Down Olympics
                                                                                                       

   In falling down, Ms. Bournissen has had a lot of company.
A number of big-name skiers crashed out of the Olympics. So,
too, did a host of skaters, bobsledders and lugers --
including an impressive list of medal favorites. Some blamed
the slopes, others the ice, others nerves.
   No one, though, fell more often than Brahim Izdag, a
25-year-old Moroccan skier, who toppled three times in the
men's super giant slalom before finishing in 93rd, and last,
place. He blamed himself.
   "The first time, I slipped but I made it past the gate. I
got up and set off again," he explained to anyone who asked.
"As for my second fall, I missed the gate by a meter. At that
point, I nearly gave up, but I heard the public cheering me
on. I sidestepped up to the gate again and off I went. In the
third fall, I got my skis tangled up four meters from the
finish. But when I arrived, I was pleased."
                                                                                                       

   The Swiss Miss
                                                                                                       

   Switzerland has more mountains than most countries, but
you would never know it from the Swiss performance here. One
of Switzerland's worst Olympics ever has left a nation in
mourning. After the favored Swiss skiers failed to win a
medal in the men's downhill, the Zurich tabloid Blick ran a
swath of black across the top of its sports section. It wrote
only: "Here is where we would have reported about the gold
medal."
   Things got worse. The skiers continued to perform far
below expectations and the hockey team was embarrassed by
archrival France. All the Swiss have to show so far is a lone
gold from the bobsledders and a bronze in the men's Alpine
combined.
   Heidi Zurbriggen, one of the disappointed Swiss skiers,
says it's nothing more than "crazy timing" that the Olympics
caught the Swiss off their peak. But other Swiss see
something graver: existential confusion.
   After turning 700 years old last year, the country is
preoccupied by doubts over its future, says Klaus Zaugg, a
Swiss sports journalist. "All there are are questions," he
says. Like, will Switzerland join the European Community?
Will the economy pull out of its malaise?
   Winning the downhill seems to pale in comparison.
   "We just don't have the spirit," laments Mr. Zaugg.
                                                                                                       

   The Gougers
                                                                                                       

   After three years of no snow and hard times, locals
couldn't wait for saps from around the world to come to town.
Here in Meribel you can get taken to the cleaners at the
laundromat, clipped at the barbers, and roasted at a bar and
grill called Chez Kiki.
   The attitude seems to be: Grab while the grabbing's good,
for next year there may be no snow, and no tourists.
   At Kiki's, they are too busy slapping steaks on the grill
for guests from CBS and Olympic corporate sponsors to talk
about how much they've raised their prices. But locals say
that prices have been jacked up all around the Olympic area
by 30% to 50% above their regular, resort-inflated rates.
   Some places don't even try to hide the gouging. At
Snowtime's Parc Alpin Hotel, signs in every room say the
normal rate is $100 a night. But for the Olympics, management
has crossed out those prices and written in a new rate: $200
a night.
   Then there are the ticket scalpers. A British man ("they
call me Murphy") rules the main street of Meribel minutes
before the U.S.-Sweden hockey game. "Who needs tickets?" he
yells, drawing an immediate crowd. He's already unloaded 62,
selling most of them to other touts for double the $60 face
value. They, in turn, redouble the price.
   "This place is made for us," Murphy says, pointing to the
hockey stadium, which holds no more than 6,000 people. A
ticket agent in Stockholm, he simply bought the bulk of his
Olympic tickets himself, and now has a network of scalpers
roaming the Games. With the American hockey team doing well,
he has no shortage of takers in Meribel.
   After a week of scalping, Murphy says he has already
broken even, with the hockey semifinals and finals yet to
come. "From now on, it's all gravy," he says.
   But the competition is heating up. An American approaches
with three tickets for a semifinal game. "What do you want
for 'em," Murphy screams. Told they'll cost $250 each, Murphy
is outraged at being beaten at his own game.
   "What's going on here?" he asks. "Everybody's a scalper."
                                                                                                       

   Bon Voyage
                                                                                                       

   Some won't be sad to see the Olympics go. The Games have
left several Savoy towns millions of dollars in debt, and are
likely to fall 5% short of meeting the organizer's goal of
breaking even, according to Jean-Claude Killy, the Games
co-president.
   In tiny Brides-les-Bains, (pop. 610), home of the main
athletes' village, the Games have saddled the town with a $10
million debt. Mayor Jean-Francois Chedal bumped into protocol
problems with Vice President Dan Quayle, and then ran into
public-relations problems with the international press corps.
   On paper, Brides-les-Bains looks a loser. But despite the
hassles and the inconvenience, Mr. Chedal says the town will
miss the Games.
   "There are always problems," says the mayor. "But I know
that 10 days from now I'll be sad."