Scotts Co. Shares Sprout Some Gains
   After Company's Initial Public Offering
   ----
   By James C. Hyatt and Dave Pettit
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
The stock, sold at $19, opened at $24.25 and traded as
high as $24.50 a share before closing at $22.25. Many initial
buyers chose to take their instant profits; first day volume
on the 12.5 million share offering was about 9.5 million
shares. Investor interest boosted the offering from the
initial two million shares at an estimated $15 to $18 a
share. In addition, underwriters exercised an option to
purchase an additional 1,875,000 shares. Thus, the offering
raised about $273 million.
   Scotts, trading under the symbol SCTT on the Nasdaq
market, was the largest in the over-the-counter market since
a 1987 offering by McCaw Cellular Communications valued at
$282.9 million.
   For the year ended Sept. 30, 1991, the company had net
income of $4.3 million, including a $2.6 million gain from a
tax-loss carry-forward, compared with a year-earlier loss of
$6.9 million.
   Scotts chairman, Tadd C. Seitz, said "our buyers are
optimistic" about 1992 prospects. Of course, he noted, the
company is "somewhat dependent on the spring weather. We
never know exactly when spring is going to come" and prompt
homeowners to start thinking about their lawns.
   This year, he said, Scotts has imposed a modest price
increase of less than 2%, reflecting moderate commodities
costs as well as internal cost controls. Scotts has two new
major products planned this year, he noted, including
Patchmaster, a combination lawn seed, fertilizer and mulching
material for lawn repair, and a new line of golf course
fertilizer using new Poly-S coating technique to release the
material over a longer period of time.
   The sale represents a hefty gain for existing shareholders
who sold four million shares in the offering; they had paid
about $27 million or $2.29 a share for their stake, and will
still hold about 38% of the company. Goldman, Sachs  Co.,
First Boston Corp. and Kidder, Peabody  Co. were
underwriters.
   With 20.3 million shares outstanding, the offering price
valued the Marysville, Ohio, company at about $385 million,
pleasing to investment firm Clayton  Dubilier Inc., which
led a $204 million leveraged buy-out of O. M. Scott  Sons
Co., formerly owned by ITT Corp., in 1986.
   Scotts is the latest in a growing number of so-called
reverse-LBOs, seeking to raise money in the new-issue market
to cut acquisition-related debt and generate profit for
buy-out investors.
   The selling shareholders included a limited partnership
run by Clayton  Dubilier, and Foreman Associates, a firm
whose partners include an affiliate and former employees of
Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc. Drexel became involved in 1988,
helping to arrange high-yield or "junk" bond financing when
Scotts purchased another company, Hyponex.
   Scotts' filing said it still owes $172.4 million in
long-term debt, and plans to use most of its proceeds to trim
long-term debt to $54.6 million and boost capitalization. The
company also faces possible fines related to environmental
issues involving discharge of substances at two sites in
Ohio, and alleged failure to obtain a required Clean Water
Act permit at a peat harvesting site in New Jersey.