Health:
   Food Industry
   Finds Label Plan
   Hard to Swallow
   ----
   By Richard Gibson
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Moreover, the industry is unhappy that FDA Commissioner
David Kessler today is expected to publicly endorse a
simplified food label for children. That suggestion, which
Dr. Kessler has been pushing behind the scenes, violates the
intent of the labeling overhaul his agency announced only
last November, food executives maintain.
   "Just a year ago, Congress decided we were going to have
one national food label. Now the agency is suggesting we
create a different label for different foods for a different
group of consumers," complains C. Manly Molpus, president of
the Grocery Manufacturers of America Inc., a key trade group.
   The food industry says it agrees that consumers deserve
better information on what is in the food they eat, and it
initially embraced the FDA's proposal. But after wading
through some 200 pages of regulatory fine print, companies
now say complying will take a lot longer and be more costly
than they had thought.
   At the very least, they are likely to ask for a year's
delay in meeting the new label mandates. Right now, the
proposal calls for compliance by May 1993. "Frankly, we don't
think it's doable," says Rick Guardia, vice president for
scientific relations at Philip Morris Cos.' Kraft General
Foods, which has an estimated 15,000 labels to revise.
   The FDA says it is prepared to hear the industry out. "If
a company can demonstrate economic hardship, the secretary
{of Health and Human Services} can extend {compliance} up to
one year," says F. Edward Scarbrough, director of the FDA's
Office of Nutrition and Food Sciences.
   The likelihood of a separate label for kids ages six
through 12 has increased the industry's concerns about the
nutrition-information labeling process and Commissioner
Kessler's goals. A pediatrician, Dr. Kessler apparently long
has favored such a label, but without federal authority to
mandate one has turned to the private sector for help.
   Today he is expected to back what he calls the Children's
Food Labeling Initiative before a research and advocacy group
in Washington called Public Voice for Food and Health Policy.
On Wednesday, Kidsnet, an educational clearinghouse supported
by foundations and the broadcast industry, will be the host
for a meeting of nutritionists, educators, representatives of
the food industry and others to explore how to proceed.
   No one is sure what a label for kids would look like, but
advocates say it could be supported with educational
material, perhaps including computer software, as well as
public-service announcements during Saturday morning cartoon
shows.
   But some food-industry representatives question the
practicality of putting a second nutrition content label on
products. "I don't know how you can do that on a can of tuna
fish," says Jeffrey Nedelman, a vice president at the Grocery
Manufacturers' association. He also cites recent polls
indicating that children know more about nutrition than many
of their parents.
   Label clutter is a major industry concern. If the current
proposals hold, products making such comparative claims as
"less fat" would have to justify them on a package's front.
   "The additional statements we'd have to include would make
it very, very difficult for us to have a label that looks
good," says Kevin Chumney, director of government regulations
for Campbell Soup Co. The result "may be more confusing to
the consumer than we've got now" and penalize more nutritious
products, he worries.
   Another complaint is over the FDA's proposed definition of
"low-fat" as an item containing no more than three grams of
fat per 100 grams of food. Manufacturers of cereals, breads
and crackers say that is unfair to them. "Consumers don't eat
100 grams of biscuits. They eat biscuits one at a time," says
Guy H. Johnson, director of nutrition for Grand Metropolitan
PLC's food sector, which includes Pillsbury Inc. He doubts
that some reduced-fat cake mixes could be reformulated to
comply, thus threatening their future.
   But the FDA's Mr. Scarbrough says the definition was based
on the daily intake of such foods as margarine and cheese,
and says the agency is willing to listen to suggestions.
   The FDA is expecting a deluge of reaction to its labeling
proposal. Comments are due by the end of February and could
take months to sift through -- again, raising questions about
whether final regulations can be completed by this November's
deadline.
   Their publication is certain to set off a stampede.
Kraft's Mr. Guardia notes that virtually every food product
in supermarkets must undergo content analysis, meaning many
thousands of laboratory hours. Printing labels, the final
step, not only is time-consuming but also a specialized field
with few practitioners. Thus, a huge backlog is anticipated.
"The demand and supply situation could raise {printing}
costs," Mr. Guardia says. "That could be very significant for
a big company." He estimates Kraft's relabeling bill will be
tens of millions of dollars.
   What the eventual labels will look like also may not be
known for months. Of seven formats already tested, several
"didn't work as well as the current one," says FDA researcher
Alan Levy. One format, which uses words such as "high" and
"low" to indicate the amounts of key nutritional components
in an item, proved less informative than one giving
percentages of recommended daily intake. Mr. Levy says the
agency wants a label that easily helps consumers "form a
global impression of a product's healthfulness."