Washington Wire:
   A Special Weekly Report From
   The Wall Street Journal's
   Capital Bureau
   ----
   Compiled by Ronald G. Shafer
The prime beneficiary is a proposal pushed by Democratic
House Majority Leader Gephardt that would in effect force
Japan to cut back auto exports to the U.S. While Bush was in
Japan, Gephardt spent the week traveling to auto plants in
Tennessee, Ohio and Detroit to promote his plan.
   "The president's trip brought this issue center stage,"
says Democratic Rep. Levin of Michigan.
                                                                                                       

   DEMOCRATS GROPE for a consensus reply to Bush's "economic
growth" plan.
   Congressional Democrats divide over what to do with an
expected peace dividend from defense cuts. Senate Finance
Chairman Bentsen proposes financing a $72.5-billion,
five-year tax cut. But powerful Senate Appropriations
Chairman Byrd insists that any defense savings are needed to
maintain domestic programs. House Democrats tend to side with
Byrd.
   Bush will demand in his State of the Union speech that
Congress devote the peace dividend exclusively to tax cuts or
deficit reduction. But that would mean bipartisan talks to
reopen the 1990 budget law, a risky move in an election year.
House Democratic leaders want to stick to the law as much as
possible; Senate Leader Mitchell and Budget Chairman Sasser
want to junk it.
                                                                                                       

   GROWING DISPUTES among former Soviet republics create U.S.
policy dilemma.
   Officials concede the U.S. can do little to defuse
arguments between Russia and Ukraine over control of the
former Soviet Black Sea fleet and an army communications
facility. They worry that the disputes may be the first of
many over military issues between republics because of the
vague pact that created the new commonwealth.
   Some analysts say the U.S. decision to put off recognizing
some Islamic republics hurts U.S. influence there. Critics
also fear the U.S. undercuts Ukraine's desire to shed nuclear
arms; they say the U.S. is inadvertently signaling that such
arms are good bargaining chips by rushing to recognize those
republics with nuclear weapons.
   NATO officials worry that there's no sign of agreement
among the republics on how to allot arms cuts agreed to
earlier by Gorbachev.
                                                                                                       

   RADICAL REDUCTIONS in U.S. nuclear arms are discussed
separately by a small group of White House aides, House Armed
Services Committee Chairman Aspin, former defense chief
McNamara and some think-tank experts. Dismantling 80% or 90%
of long-range nuclear missiles, argues nuclear expert Max
Singer, would encourage the former Soviet republics and other
nations to reject nuclear arms.
                                                                                                       

   FREEING OF HOSTAGES in Lebanon leads U.S. analysts to
conclude that Iran had more control over the hostage-holders
than had been known. "It was close to total," says one
terrorism expert. While Iran's role in the releases is
praised, it also leaves a bitter taste among officials who
now think Tehran could have acted sooner.
                                                                                                       

   "RAMPANT" ABUSES of human rights in Pakistan are protested
in a letter to Bush from four key House committee chairmen.
Reps. Aspin, Fascell, McCurdy and Solarz cite "almost daily
reports of arrests, torture, murder, rape and abuse" against
opposition leaders. They suggest no resumption of U.S. aid
even if Pakistan satisfies U.S. concerns about nuclear
proliferation.
                                                                                                       

   BUCHANAN BLITZ: The GOP challenger maps a TV and radio
assault, including paid ads, in New Hampshire's primary. One
ad will portray Bush adviser Charles Black, whose PR firm has
Japanese clients, dressed in a kimono. Bush's strategists
push to persuade him to mix with ordinary voters on his first
trip to the state next Wednesday.
                                                                                                       

   DEMOCRATIC CONTENDERS for president look beyond New
Hampshire.
   Harkin and Kerrey open offices in South Dakota for its
Feb. 25 vote; Clinton may join them soon. "It looks good
because TV is so wonderfully cheap there," says Paul Tully,
the Democratic party's political director. Kerrey, Harkin and
Clinton also push hard in Colorado's early March contest to
appear as appealing Western candidates.
   Clinton focuses more on the March 3 primary in Maryland,
hoping to gain former Wilder supporters in one state where
the Virginia governor had strength. A Clinton win in the
border state would give him momentum for the next week's
Super Tuesday contests in 12 states, most in the South.
Tsongas, if he does well in New Hampshire on Feb. 18, looks
seriously to Maine's caucuses the next week.
   Only Brown risks taking on Iowa's Harkin in his state's
Feb. 10 caucuses in hopes of a strong, headline-making second
place finish.
                                                                                                       

   MINOR MEMOS: The New Hampshire chairman of Buchanan's
presidential campaign calls Quayle "the pit puppy for the
Bush administration." . . . One irreverent idea for naming
the young commonwealth of former Soviet republics: ACNE, for
Association of Countries with No Economies . . . Bush's talk
to school children last fall that stirred controversy because
of its production costs draws more than 250,000 mostly
favorable letters from young students.