Rite Aid Ends Bid
   For Revco; Support
   Given to Eckerd
   ----
   By Gabriella Stern
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Rite Aid President Martin L. Grass said the company
withdrew its plan for Revco because "the price was just
getting out of hand." Rite Aid, a drugstore operator and
specialty retailer based in Shiremanstown, Pa., was offering
about $735 million. "We didn't want to continue, so we pulled
the plug," Mr. Grass said. After the company withdrew its
bid, Rite Aid stock was quoted at $21.625 a share, up 37.5
cents, in late New York Stock Exchange trading.
   Revco's creditors voted last week on reorganization plans
submitted by Rite Aid, Eckerd, and a management-backed group
consisting of bank and trade creditors and note holders. None
of the plans received sufficient votes to be confirmed.
   After the vote, Eckerd, a closely held Clearwater, Fla.,
retailer and drugstore operator, sweetened its bid for Revco
in an effort to lure creditors who had voted for the other
plans.
   People close to the creditors said one large creditor,
Apollo Advisors, a Los Angeles investment company headed by
Leon Black, a former executive with Drexel Burnham Lambert,
was instrumental in forging an agreement between Eckerd and
creditors. That accord involved concessions by banks to trade
creditors and noteholders. Apollo, which acquired Wells Fargo
 Co.'s Revco loans last year and is the single largest bank
creditor, declined to comment.
   Eckerd sweetened the pot by offering $43 million in cash
to note holders and trade creditors. Eckerd also offered the
creditors better terms on the new secured Revco debt. Mark
Schnitzer, an analyst with Dabney/Resnick  Wagner Inc., Los
Angeles, said Eckerd's new offer adds about $50 million in
value for creditors. The plan has been valued $735 million to
$969.6 million.
   Bill Jacobs of First Boston Corp., who represents the bank
creditors, said the revised Eckerd plan "represents a new
consensus among the creditors and presents an excellent
opportunity for the bankruptcy court to bring this matter to
a speedy conclusion. We expect all the major parties to go
before the judge and say, `We all agree.'"
   A Revco spokesman indicated management would accept the
new consensus.