Foreign Job Bid
   By Southern Co.
   Probed by SEC
   ----
   By Martha Brannigan
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Last October, Southern fired Jeffrey R. Hamburg as
president of Southern Electric International, a Southern Co.
unit, in the midst of the company's internal investigation.
Southern said that Mr. Hamburg hadn't measured up to the
company's "business standards." But it didn't elaborate. Mr.
Hamburg promptly filed a civil suit in Georgia state court
against Southern and its officers, contending that they had
"destroyed" his reputation.
   Recent filings by Southern Co. in that suit provide more
details of the company's concern about the so-called Pego
project in Pego, Portugal. In court documents, Southern said
it became concerned about what it alleges were efforts by Mr.
Hamburg to pay $250,000 to HLC-Trading LDA, a Lisbon-based
company that is a joint-venture partner in the Portuguese
project. In its court papers, Southern Co. alleges that Mr.
Hamburg knew as early as spring 1991 that HLC-Trading "wanted
to make payments that would be improper and perhaps illegal."
   Southern Co. says that Mr. Hamburg persisted in efforts to
make the $250,000 payment to HLC-Trading, even after Southern
Co. officials advised him not to do so. The company also says
that Mr. Hamburg knew such payments were against company
policy and contrary to contracts governing its Pego bid.
Southern Co. adds that it halted the process before any money
was given to the partner.
   In Lisbon, officials at HLC Trading, controlled by Horacio
Carvalho, couldn't be reached for comment. Kevin
Getzendanner, an attorney for Mr. Hamburg, denied the
company's assertions, saying: "Neither {Mr. Hamburg} nor
anyone at the company did anything in violation of the law or
of company policy as far as he knows."
   Meanwhile, the government of Portugal has decided to scrap
results of the controversial bid and start again. Last
summer, it had narrowed the field to two contenders, one of
which is a joint venture among Southern Co., HLC-Trading, and
RWE Energie AG in Essen, Germany. Southern said it's
continuing discussions with RWE about whether to submit a new
bid.
   The project is to complete construction of two
300-megawatt coal-fired plants for Electricidade de Portugal,
that country's power agency. A Southern Co. spokesman has
estimated the total cost of the project at more than $1
billion.