LEISURE  ARTS -- Mobile Guide:
   A Place of Penance
   ----
   By Nicholas King
The village square is a wide, irregular, sunlit place,
surrounded by houses, a church and a barrack-like
administrative building, all low and quiet. The post office,
the gas station and the convenience store are out of sight
down at the level of the highway.
   A single car is parked before the little church of Santo
Tomas. Its driver is a middle-aged woman who spent the first
eight years of her life here. Then her family moved to
California and she hasn't been back until now. We try to go
in but the church door is locked, and there is no one in the
little parish house around the sanctuary side.
   A bulletin board with a schedule of Masses hangs from the
church wall. Like other churches in these pueblos, it is an
active place of worship, closed in the offhours as a
protection against souvenir pickers. Through a side window I
can see that the interior follows the patternbeamed roof,
white plastered walls. The window is too small for me to see
the sanctuary, but it almost certainly contains one of those
painted "retablos" splashed with naif saints that are the
principal decoration of such shrines.
   Outside, Santo Tomas has that familiar crouching look of
the adobe church, the brown paint peeling here and there off
the walls, its facade balcony surmounted by twin wooden
turrets flanking a pierced bell bracket. A low parapet
encloses an arrangement of shrubs and footpaths. A white
pickup truck comes up the hill into the square, skirts its
edge and disappears behind a plume of cocoa-colored dust.
   Farther up the hillside a pair of stony ruts lead to an
upper pasture overlooking the valley with a longer view.
Three black wooden crosses eight feet high stand at the edge
of the cliff. In front of them, and behind a chain with a
"Keep Out" sign, is a one-story chapel of rose adobe,
boatshaped with only one or two small square windows
shuttered tight. At the stern end perches a little bell and
its iron wheel-cradle. There is no spire or tower, only near
the front end a black stovepipe rising from an adobe cone.
   This is one of the celebrated moradas, or penitential
chapels, which once were common but now are rare. They were
used by the brotherhood of "penitentes," whose rituals
included processions of flagellants and re-enactments of the
Crucifixion in Passion-play style. These ceremonies were held
during Holy Week fairly openly, often at night.
   Then they were discovered, and disrupted, by curious
outsiders and eventually even more by tourists. On one
occasion, people drove their cars up close to the ceremonies
and turned on their headlights. Naturally, the idea of the
faithful lashing themselves, even though it was in
remembrance of the scourging of Christ, came to be regarded
as something strange and macabre. The church itself by that
time was officially disapproving, and the penitents either
stopped their observances or held them thenceforward in
semi-secret.
   So there is uncertainty about what goes on here and when,
and in the tourist business a reluctance to go much further
by way of explanation, as though these moradas were sources
of embarrassment, theaters of incomprehensible and therefore
foreboding rites. Yet the idea of atonement through suffering
can be a deeply held, almost instinctive one, outside the
church as well as within it.
   Penitential rites can be freely witnessed in Spain, for
example, during Lent. The Holy Week processions of parishes
with their men in their ominous high conical hats and masks,
chained to the platforms of their particular Virgins, moving
by torchlight through the dark, narrow streets are one of the
most impressive spectacles of Christendom.
   They often used to make non-Catholic tourists highly
uncomfortable, for these penitents are dressed exactly like
the penitents of the Inquisition (not to mention of the more
gruesome drawings of Goya) and the auto-da-fe.
   The penitentes of New Mexico go back to 1598, when the
order was introduced by Franciscan monks. The Franciscans
left in 1828 as a result of the attitude of revolutionary
Mexico, and the great Archbishop Jean Lamy later in the
century maintained this hostility in accordance with the
evolution of Roman Catholic doctrine toward public penance.
   Penance is clearly a living if infrequent practice here.
The chapel's walls are crisp and its lines are clean. The
place is kept up. The great black crosses are straight up and
solid in this lip of ground that overlooks the valley and the
surrounding badlands.
   Down the hill on my way north I stop at the post office,
but the man there says he isn't a local and doesn't know much
of anything about the chapel up above. Neither does the woman
at the gas station across the highway. She knows what it is,
but little more: "I think people come here to use it in the
spring."
   ---
   Mr. King is director of the Foreign Press Center in New
York.