In Idaho, the NEA Is as Radical as Apple Pie
   ----
   By Julie Fanselow
But critics and pundits who question the NEA's existence
are ignoring the endowment's role in supporting the arts in
smalltown and rural America. In spring 1990, the Idaho
Commission on the Arts distributed grants totaling $447,219.
Of that amount, 38% -- nearly $170,000 -- came directly from
the National Endowment.
   That $170,000 represented more than five times as much as
the endowment gave the University of Pennsylvania's Institute
of Contemporary Art to help fund the infamous exhibit by
photographer Robert Mapplethorpe. That show, which included
seven or eight homoerotic images (out of 120 photos), touched
off the arts funding flap.
   Where did the money go in Idaho? Well, $4,250 went to the
Idaho Dance Arts Alliance, which used its funds to run
workshops for children. Lincoln Elementary School in Twin
Falls received $1,300 for an artists-in-residence program
that in the past six years has brought a mime, a dancer, a
storyteller, a painter and a puppeteer to its classrooms.
Principal Ted Popplewell says the visitors help children
realize it is possible to make a living in the arts, and
teachers have also seen improvement in students' social
skills and self-esteem following the artists' residencies.
   The College of Southern Idaho used its $3,900 grant to
fund its annual Arts on Tour series, which regularly features
such bastions of performing arts morality as Brigham Young
University's International Dancers and a holiday run of "The
Nutcracker." The Idaho School for the Deaf and the Blind
received $825, which paid for an on-campus performance and
workshop by a professional ballet troupe. Arts programs "give
the students another type of language," says school
Superintendent Jim Rainier. "It expands their horizons."
   The NEA gives direct grants to arts organizations, too,
and the University of Idaho's Lionel Hampton/Chevron Jazz
Festival is one such recipient. Lynn Skinner, festival
director, said the $15,000 received from the NEA in 1991
helped bring big-name jazz stars, including Al Jarreau and
Herbie Mann, to campus, where they performed and offered
dozens of workshops.
   Since the Mapplethorpe incident, the NEA has been painted
in broad brushstrokes as a shameless peddler of pornography.
The Rev. Donald Wildmon's American Family Association,
through intensive direct mail campaigns and full-page
advertisements, has called for the agency's abolition. Mr.
Wildmon says artists have no more right to be federally
funded than do truck drivers or carpenters.
   NEA critics ignore the good the arts endowment has done.
In 1965, when the endowment began, there were 60 local arts
councils in the U.S.; today, there are more than 3,000. In
1965, there were 110 professional orchestras in the U.S.;
today, there are at least 220. "American Playhouse" and "Live
From Lincoln Center" are other endowment-supported projects
that reach every American with access to public television.
   It would be simplistic to tie the nation's flowering of
cultural activity solely to the NEA. But those grants have
made a difference, not just to the Eastern art elite and not
just to starving artists. In its 27 years, the NEA has given
more than 90,000 grants. Fewer than 25 have generated
controversy.
   Those who would abolish the NEA need only look to places
like Idaho to learn that most of the time the endowment does
its job quietly and well, bringing arts to every American. It
should be allowed to continue to do so.
   ---
   Ms. Fanselow is a free-lance writer living in Twin Falls,
Idaho.