Nestle May Seek
   To Negotiate
   On Perrier Bid
   ---
   Agnelli Camp Resists Talk
   Of Swiss Management;
   IFIL to Raise BSN Stake
   ----
   By Charles Fleming
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Nestle and its French ally Banque Indosuez earlier this
week bid 13.3 billion French francs ($2.46 billion) for
Perrier. This effectively countered a friendly Agnelli offer
for holding company Exor S.A. that would give the Italians
effective management control over Perrier.
   Exor owns 34% of Perrier stock and Exor allies Saint Louis
S.A. and French banking group Societe Generale each own a
further packet of shares, giving the Agnelli camp 49.3% of
Perrier stock in all. But Nestle and Indosuez are contesting
in two separate French courts whether Saint Louis has full
rights to its 13.8% Perrier stake, because of allegations it
acquired the shares unfairly earlier this month.
   Nestle Finance Director Reto Domeniconi said yesterday
that Nestle could set aside its differences and cooperate
with the Agnelli family, which also controls Italy's Fiat
S.p.A. auto maker.
   "At this point it seems to me that we could keep, say, 45%
{of Perrier's capital} and begin cooperation," Mr. Domeniconi
told the Reuters news agency.
   "I don't see why we couldn't find a solution whereby we
could work side-by-side with the Agnellis in Perrier, since
we would be managing the group," the Nestle executive said.
   However, a source close to the Agnelli camp, who asked not
to be identified, dismissed Mr. Domeniconi's comments,
referring to them as aggressive and saying that they laid no
foundation for negotiations. "They want management control
and they want to cut up Perrier," he said, referring to
Nestle's agreement to sell Perrier's still water subsidiary
Volvic to French food company BSN S.A. in case of victory.
   The same source also said there had been no direct contact
between the different groups so far this week and suggested
that this was unlikely until two French courts offer their
separate rulings on the contested Perrier shares held by
Saint Louis, which wouldn't be until next month at the
earliest.
   Separately, IFIL S.p.A., a major holding company of
Italy's Agnelli family, wants to increase its 5.8% stake in
BSN, but has no intention to take control of the French food
group, IFIL Chairman Umberto Agnelli said.
   Referring to a statement made last week in Brugge,
Belgium, Umberto Agnelli, who is the younger brother of Fiat
Chairman Gianni Agnelli, said: "I confirm. We want to raise
our stake in BSN. But this doesn't mean we want to go beyond
our clear accords" with BSN Chairman Antoine Riboud.
   Last week, Mr. Agnelli said the acquisition of an
additional stake in BSN would require Mr. Riboud's consent.
   Umberto Agnelli also suggested Exor wouldn't launch a
counter bid for Perrier, adding that its friends in the
French holding company and in Perrier are confident they can
keep control of the French mineral water group.
   Mr. Agnelli also supported Perrier's opposition to
Nestle's bid because it would "dismantle the company."