Refco Runs Afoul
   Of U.S. Regulators
   For the Fifth Time
   ----
   By Kevin G. Salwen
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Refco settled the charges without admitting or denying
wrongdoing and agreed to pay a civil fine of $440,000. Mr.
Friedman of Palm Beach, Fla., also settled the agency's
charges, agreeing to pay $150,000 and severing all ties to
the firm. He held the title of "chairman emeritus" and
handled some accounts. He also will have his floor-broker
registration revoked, the CFTC said.
   While the firm agreed to "cease and desist" from
violations of the Commodity Exchange Act as part of the
settlement, similar accords in the past have had little
impact. Refco already was under three cease-and-desist orders
from the agency for failing to supervise and other alleged
wrongdoing.
   CFTC Enforcement Director Dennis Klejna said the repeated
problems at the firm were a major reason for the stiff
penalty over apparently minor violations in a thinly traded
contract. "The important thing from the enforcement
standpoint is that they violated three different
cease-and-desist orders," he said. "That provided us with a
lot of concern." In addition to the three other settled cases
with the CFTC, another Refco administrative case is on appeal
to the full commission.
   Refco, the major unit of Refco Group Ltd., which has about
$2 billion of assets, said it cooperated with the CFTC
investigation. "It is Refco's policy to comply with all
applicable laws, rules and regulations, including those of
the Commodity Futures Trading Commission and governing
exchanges," a spokeswoman said. She added that Refco settled
the case "to maintain a positive working relationship with
the CFTC" and avoid litigation costs.
   In addition to having his floor license revoked, Mr.
Friedman, 78 years old, is barred from all futures and
options trading for two months, followed by a six-month ban
from trading pork-belly futures and options. "Mr. Friedman
just felt it was in his best interest to settle the matter
rather than to fight it," said his lawyer, Ronald Filler. "We
don't have any comments on the merits involved in the
situation." A Refco official said the firm has now "severed
all ties to our founder."
   The administrative case stems from Mr. Friedman's
pork-belly trades on behalf of Isadore Friedman, who was a
longtime customer of the firm and died last year. The agency
said the two men, who weren't relatives, bought futures in
conjunction and should have pooled their trades for
calculations of position limits.
   The CFTC's case follows a settlement by Refco 1 1/2 years
ago on similar charges. In that case, Refco agreed to pay a
$220,000 fine, which the commission doubled for this
complaint.