LEISURE  ARTS -- Business Bookshelf:
   A Bent Bank: The BCCI Saga, So Far
   ----
   By George Melloan
Mr. Abedi and his oil-wealthy Arab collaborators got away
with it for roughly 20 years. It was only last July 5 that
officials of the Bank of England, leading a sweep conducted
simultaneously in seven countries, walked into BCCI's 25
offices in the U.K., sent employees home, locked the doors
and began packing up bank records to be sifted for further
evidence of misdeeds. There had been plenty of hints over the
years that BCCI was a bent bank, but only after a Price
Waterhouse study discovered evidence of incredible
self-dealing -- including $313 million in loans outstanding
to a BCCI "shareholder," former Saudi intelligence chieftain
Kamal Adham -- did the British authorities feel armed with
sufficient evidence to shut down the bank's headquarters in
London and its other U.K. operations. Regulators in the U.S.,
France, Spain, Switzerland, Luxembourg and the Cayman Islands
did likewise the same day.
   The BCCI saga is by no means complete. In the U.S.,
Manhattan District Attorney Robert Morgenthau, the Federal
Reserve and the Justice Department still have open files,
particularly with regard to BCCI's control of First American
Bank Shares Inc., a large bank holding company in Washington,
D.C. First American's chief executive officer, Clark
Clifford, has been forced out and replaced by Nicholas
Katzenbach. Washington insiders are waiting with the usual
prurient interest to learn who among Washington's prominent
political figures -- if any-might have been tainted by BCCI's
nasty influence -- buying habits. What will happen to Mr.
Clifford, the 85-year-old eminence grise of the Democratic
Party who denied any knowledge that his friends at BCCI
secretly and illegally owned his bank, remains a subject of
speculation.
   And yet, incomplete as it is, the BCCI story is already
ripe for telling, and not surprisingly, two books have hit
the shops in a near dead heat this month. Both are
well-written by competent journalists, with the edge going to
"A Full Service Bank" (Pocket Books, 381 pages, $22), by
James Ring Adams, a former editorial writer for this
newspaper, and Douglas Frantz of the Los Angeles Times.
   Not only is their study of BCCI and its shady past
exhaustive, drawing on mountains of material unearthed by
many investigators, but it is also extremely readable. Few
novels could match the telling of how Robert Mazur, an
undercover investigator for the U.S. Customs Service, first
cracked the BCCI shell by posing as a financial "consultant"
arranging money laundering for the Medellin cartel. A tape
recorder concealed in his briefcase taped conversations with
BCCI officers in which he took pains to inform them that his
clients were just like Lee Iacocca, except "Iacocca sells
cars and they sell coke."
   The tapes established that the BCCI officers knew they
were laundering drug money in violation of U.S. law. But as
Mr. Mazur tried to work his way up the ladder to BCCI's top
brass, time ran out. Through a breakdown in coordination,
agents of other enforcement services shadowed his clients,
raising suspicions in Medellin. Then there was pressure from
Washington to wind up the investigation. So Mr. Mazur staged
a phony wedding in Tampa, Fla., with his fellow agent Kathy
Ertz, inviting his BCCI friends and drug contacts. Thinking
they were going to a bachelor's party, the celebrants were
chauffered in limousines to the NCNB Tower in downtown Tampa.
They alighted happily in the underground garage, but instead
of ascending in the elevators to fun and games they were
greeted in the "party" room by waiting drug cops, who said,
"Welcome to Tampa, you're under arrest."
   With the conviction on July 29, 1990, of five BCCI bankers
and one of their Medellin contacts, the Justice Department's
strange lethargy toward the BCCI case became increasingly
untenable. Mr. Morgenthau's investigators were bearing down.
The Journal's Peter Truell was uncovering new information.
Regardie's, a Washington business publication, had published
-- despite threats from First American -- an exhaustive
article suggesting that Mr. Clifford was a front man for
BCCI. Sen. John Kerry was conducting an investigation,
despite the cautioning of many of his Senate colleagues.
   The investigations all finally came to a head in December
with a BCCI guilty plea to New York and Justice Department
criminal charges. It agreed to forfeit $550 million to help
pay foreign depositors and shore up First American Bank in
Washington and Independence Bank in Encino, Calif., two of
its secret holdings.
   Serving a similar purpose, but far less exhaustively, is
"Dirty Money" (National Press Books, 235 pages, $21.95),
authored by Mark Potts of the Washington Post and two British
investigative reporters, Nick Kochan and Robert Whittington.
This book zeroes in on the central question: Why did it take
so long for banking authorities to catch up with BCCI? Ponzi
schemes, which depend on sucking in new money to disguise the
looting, usually don't succeed for so many years. The book
hints at the great unmentionable, that perhaps some friends
in high places were useful, when it mentions "persistent
unconfirmed reports that BCCI had Washington politicians on
its payroll and that it gave them highly favorable loan
deals.
   "Central to these rumors has been the purported existence
of a list, supposedly found among BCCI documents, of more
than 100 politicians that BCCI paid off."
   Later, in the same vein, the authors say that the kindest
explanation is neglect. But maybe it was incompetence, or,
"worst of all, deliberate decisions to look the other way,
perhaps in exchange for money or other favors."
   In short, the key question remains unanswered. But stay
tuned. There probably is more to come in this greatest bank
scandal of all time.
   ---
   Mr. Melloan is the Journal's deputy editor, international.