Plaintiffs Mull
   Settling Suits
   Against Milken
   ---
   Thrift Regulators, Investors
   May Accept $1.4 Billion
   From Defendant Group
   ----
   By Wade Lambert
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
But part of the incentive also stems from a provision in
the Drexel bankruptcy settlement. Under that provision, Mr.
Milken and former Drexel employees wouldn't face any future
claims if they agree to a settlement at least 20 days before
the March 5 confirmation hearing on Drexel's bankruptcy
reorganization plan.
   People involved in the litigation said settlement efforts
have picked up steam in recent days and predicted that an
agreement could be reached by the end of the month if
progress continues to be made. U.S. Judge Milton Pollack, who
called for the "global" settlement effort, "has been keeping
the pressure on," said one person familiar with the cases.
"He's very effective at getting people together."
   Judge Pollack ordered attorneys involved not to discuss
the settlement efforts. But it is understood that under the
settlement proposal, Mr. Milken's share of the payment would
be $1 billion, and the other defendants, mainly former
colleagues of Mr. Milken from Drexel's junk-bond department,
would contribute $300 million to $400 million. Mr. Milken's
lawyers offered details of the proposal in negotiations over
the weekend.
   Mr. Milken's share would include the $400 million that he
agreed to pay into a restitution fund when he pleaded guilty
in 1990 to six securities-related felonies. Mr. Milken, who
also paid a $200 million fine, last year began serving a
10-year prison sentence, which he is seeking to have reduced.
Mr. Milken and the other defendants have denied the
allegations of thrift regulators and other securities
litigants that they rigged the junk-bond market.
   A spokesman for Mr. Milken and other parties involved in
the settlement talks declined to comment.
   CNN reported Monday night that the settlement talks were
progressing rapidly.
   The main sticking point in the negotiations apparently
involves the non-cash portion of the settlement. A huge part
of the settlement will come from limited partnerships that
were set up by Mr. Milken and other Drexel employees. In
their lawsuits against Mr. Milken, thrift regulators allege
that the limited partnerships, which continue to operate,
were used to purchase and sell junk bonds as part of a scheme
to manipulate the market.
   The partnerships, estimated to be valued at $500 million
to $1 billion, are mainly headed by Mr. Milken's
co-defendants in the securities-fraud cases. But the two
sides in the lawsuits differ over the correct valuation of
the partnership interests that would be turned over in the
settlement. The partnerships are currently said to hold
warrants and other equity interests related to Drexel
transactions.
   Of the total $1.4 billion settlement proposal, between
$300 million and $500 million apparently would come from the
limited partnerships. Most of that amount would be from Mr.
Milken's share in the partnerships, and would count toward
his share of the settlement. In addition to valuing the
partnership interests, thrift regulators and the other
securities claimants in the case still have to decide whether
the total offered by the defendants is sufficient.
   The settlement will also cover Drexel's own suit against
Mr. Milken for breach of fiduciary duty. Drexel in its suit
blamed Mr. Milken for the demise of the firm, which ended up
paying $650 million to settle the government's case against
it in 1989 and which filed for bankruptcy-law protection in
February 1990.
   While settlement efforts continue, Judge Pollack in
federal court in Manhattan has halted all pre-trial fact
finding and the interviewing of potential witnesses in the
cases. If the negotiations fail, Mr. Milken could face a
trial in the Drexel suit as early as April, and trials in the
thrift regulators' suits against him are scheduled to begin
later this year.