For Competition in the Air, Bring Back Antitrust
   ----
   By Edward R. Beauvais
Airline deregulation had been premised on the theory that
significant barriers to entry did not exist in the industry
and thus, little or no government involvement was required to
assure a competitive environment. Unfortunately, since the
advent of deregulation, three daunting competitive barriers
have emerged: dominance of computer reservation systems by
the very largest carriers, frequent flyer programs and unfair
allocation of landing rights at capacity-controlled airports.
   The adverse competitive effects of these barriers were
exacerbated in the mid-1980s when the airline merger and
acquisition binge began. (It is interesting to note that
every merger or acquisition presented to the U.S. Department
of Transportation for consideration during this period was
approved.) These, not surprisingly, produced an oligopoly of
mega-carriers in the U.S.
   The result: More than 150,000 airline industry employees
have lost their jobs since 1988. The number of airlines in
operation today has dwindled to 10 and three of those are
operating in bankruptcy -- including ours. Of the 14 airlines
that have started up since 1978, only America West is still
flying.
   The comment most frequently heard from so-called experts
is that it would be OK if the industry shrunk to just three
airlines. It would still be competitive, we are told. Solid
evidence exists, however, that the three "chosen" carriers do
not compete vigorously with each other even today. If they
alone survive, it is unreasonable to believe that they would
suddenly become more competitive.
   No airline has ceased operation believing that it had a
great or promising future. They sold out or threw in the
towel because they saw the light at the end of the tunnel,
and it was red; they would never be able to compete in a
marketplace dominated by such significant barriers.
   If competitiveness is to be restored to the airline
industry, federal antitrust laws and certain regulations must
be enforced and several immediate actions must be taken:
   -- American Airlines and United Airlines, the two largest
carriers, must be forced to divest their computer reservation
systems. These systems are truly the 800pound gorillas of the
industry. Between 70% and 80% of all airline reservations are
made by these systems. Several objective studies have proven
conclusively that the carriers enjoy a huge market share and
economic advantage due to their ownership of the reservation
systems.
   -- Airport market access, which was the promise of the
Airline Deregulation Act, must become a reality. The act and
its promise were negated because economic policy suddenly
allowed the existing carriers to own, at no cost, arrival and
departure slots at capacity-constrained airports where no new
operations are feasible and that trade at such high prices
that only the mega-carriers can afford to buy them.
   -- Changes must be made in the frequent flyer programs.
These are on the verge of becoming serious competitive
barriers if they have not already achieved such status.
   -- The Wright Amendment, which established and preserves
Southwest Airlines monopoly at Dallas's Love Field, must be
rescinded by Congress. It's a flagrant violation of all free
enterprise fundamentals.
   The success of the U.S. economy is in large measure the
result of the willingness of the federal government to assure
a fully functioning marketplace. This was the primary reason
that the antitrust laws were established when the country was
faced with abuse of monopoly power in the 1890s, and that
regulation followed the manipulation of the financial markets
in the 1920s.
   It has been the abandonment of that role by the federal
government over the past 15 years that has led to a serious
deterioration in the quality of goods and services produced
in the U.S.
   If this situation is not reversed, key industries will
again be dominated by a few monopolies. The antitrust laws
are designed to protect the competitive integrity of every
U.S. industry. They remove restraints of trade and barriers
to entry. This, in turn, encourages new entries,
entrepreneurial innovation and the creation of new jobs.
   If we want the economy to recover, we must return to the
basics. We must remove the barriers preventing the creation
of new jobs.
   ---
   Mr. Beauvais is chairman and CEO of America West Airlines,
in Phoenix, Ariz.