Letters to the Editor:
   It's Legal, but Is It Ethical?
Under the latest redistricting scheme concocted by the
North Carolina Legislature, all that goes out the window. The
Democrat-drafted plan puts 17 counties in the new 10th
district, an incredible 11 of which are split.
   I realize that gerrymandering is legal, but service to the
people should also be of importance in the redistricting
process. It is quite obvious the General Assembly paid no
attention to the repeated pleas from citizens from across the
state to create compact districts without the needless and
senseless splitting of counties and even precincts. To serve
the people, you must know who they are. In some of my 11
split counties, Democrats have removed all the cities, which
would include the post offices and the major telephone
exchanges. Where do you have town meetings? Where do I or my
staff meet with constituents? It will be a logistical
nightmare. Many people will not know whom to vote for (or
against), and I pity the poor boards of election that must
print and distribute the ballots.
   All this may be legal, but it is also unethical and a
terrible way to treat voters. Voters in our state are staying
away from the polls in droves because they don't believe
their vote really matters. With this new redistricting plan,
they will be even more inclined to give up on our Democratic
government.
   P. Cass Ballenger (R., N.C.)
   Washington
   ---
   Your editorial states, "Democratic bosses in the
Legislature allowed one of Mr. U.S. Rep. Rose's own
staffers to draw bizarre districts that make no geographic
sense." As explained to the Senate committee, the idea for
the proposed Charlotte to Durham district originated not with
Rep. Rose or his staff or Democratic bosses. It was proposed
to the Justice Department on Aug. 5, 1991, by Republican
state Rep. David Balmer of Charlotte in his brief outlining
why North Carolina should have two black congressional
districts. Rep. Balmer, on the first day of the Extra
Session, Dec. 30, 1991, reintroduced a plan with this
district and an eastern rural black district that greatly
resemble the ones in the enacted plan.
   I would also note that your map of North Carolina, which
you credit to the General Assembly, cuts off the western 200
miles of North Carolina. We did not prepare such a map, which
if true would do more damage to North Carolina than any
redistricting proposal.
   F. Cohen
   Director of Bill Drafting
   North Carolina General Assembly
   Raleigh, N.C.
   ---
   Your description of North Carolina's 12th congressional
district -- "a long snake that winds its way through central
North Carolina for 190 miles. . . . For much of its length,
the district is no wider than the Interstate 85 corridor" --
brings to mind a remark that Texas state Sen. A.R. "Babe"
Schwarz made about one of his state's congressional districts
in the 1960s.
   To secure veteran Congressman Olin "Tiger" Teague a safe
seat, the map makers strung together a series of counties
running halfway across Texas from Fort Worth to the Gulf of
Mexico.
   Said Sen. Schwarz: "If you drove through that district
with both car doors open, you'd kill everybody in it."
   Griffin Smith Jr.
   Little Rock, Ark.