Technology:
   U.S. Cancels Contract With CompuAdd
   And Sysorex After Large Rivals Protest
   ----
   By Hal Lancaster
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The total value of the contract was estimated at $1
billion. The Air Force projected revenue for the first year
alone at $398 million for CompuAdd and $267 million for
Sysorex. By comparison, CompuAdd had total sales of $515.6
million in 1990, and Sysorex had sales in the year ended last
Sept. 30 of $90 million.
   Eight companies protested the award, contending that the
Air Force didn't get the best value for the contract as
called for in the initial bid solicitation. The protesters
also questioned the ability of the two companies to fulfill
the contract.
   Those filing protests were Apple Computer Inc., General
Motors Corp.'s Electronic Data Systems Corp. unit,
International Business Machines Corp., Zenith Data Systems
Corp., Government Technology Services Inc., Memorex Telex
N.V., International Data Products Corp. and AST Research Inc.
   The protesting companies complained that in using a
fast-track procurement procedure, the Air Force didn't
provide them the opportunity to correct deficiencies and make
a final offer. "When you eliminate 20 of 22 vendors without
discussion, at that point you violate the Competition and
Contracting Act," said Bob Becker, vice president and general
manager of AST's federal systems division. Air Force
officials couldn't be reached for comment.
   A spokesman for another protester said the initial bid
solicitations called for the Air Force to seek the best
value. "They made the decision on criteria other than best
value," the spokesman said.
   Officials of both CompuAdd and Sysorex said their bids
were in compliance with the contract's provisions. Judy
Bitterli, director of corporate sales for CompuAdd, said the
company hadn't submitted the lowest bid the first time around
but had won the contract on the basis of the quality of its
product, its three-year warranty and its track record in
supplying computers on short notice to last year's Operation
Desert Storm, the U.S.-led effort that expelled Iraqi
invaders from Kuwait.
   In the case of Desert Storm, Ms. Bitterli said, the
company was asked a week before Christmas of 1990 to deliver
$20 million of computers to Saudi Arabia by Jan. 14. "At the
time, we only had 30% of the raw goods in-house," she said,
but CompuAdd delivered the computers on time.
   Both companies said they intended to bid again. "We are
not only going to rejoin the bidding, we're going to re-win
it," Ms. Bitterli said.
   But winning again won't be easy. For one thing, pointed
out Ron Maylor, Sysorex's senior vice president, their
winning bid has now been disclosed publicly, giving other
bidders more information to consider in making new bids. And
both companies said they expect the bidders to be more
aggressive in the second round.
   Ms. Bitterli said she expects the new bidding process to
be completed by March. Companies that submitted competitive
bids the first time will receive evaluations of those bids
from the Air Force and be given a chance to correct
deficiencies and revise their offers. It wasn't immediately
known how many of the 22 bidders would be invited to submit
new bids.