Housing Starts
   Rose in December
   But Fell for Year
   ----
   By Paulette Thomas
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Actual starts for 1991, not seasonally adjusted, totaled
one million, compared with 1.1 million in 1990. "It was
disastrous," said Thomas Holloway, economist for the Mortgage
Bankers Association. Last year was the slowest since the
325,000 starts in 1945, when a slightly different government
survey method was used.
   Economists expect an upturn in construction this month,
following the huge, one-point rate decrease by the Federal
Reserve Board in late December. An informal member survey by
the mortgage bankers indicates record-level home refinancings
are continuing this month, and, more important, the survey
also portends an increase in home sales and construction.
"The dramatic rate cuts are working their way into the system
now," Mr. Holloway said.
   In December, single-family home construction showed the
biggest improvement, rising 18% to a 948,000-unit annual
rate. In contrast, the rate for multifamily building fell
steeply to 99,000 new units from 132,000 units. Building
permits, an indication of future construction, rose for both,
by 5.8% to one million for single-family homes, and 13.5% to
168,000 for multifamily homes.
   Every region showed overall construction increases in
December, except the West, where construction fell 6.7%. All
numbers are seasonally adjusted.
   The improved starts, however, aren't enough to kick the
economy out of its doldrums, particularly with consumer
confidence indexes still in the tank. "The single-family
housing market seems like the only key piece of the economy
that seems to be showing any life in the fourth quarter,"
said David Seiders, economist for the National Association of
Homebuilders.
   He predicts 1.2 million homes will be built in 1992,
including one million single-family homes.
   ---
   Corrections  Amplifications
                                                                                                       

   HOUSING STARTS of single-family homes rose 4.2% in
December, according to Commerce Department figures. The
percentage increase was incorrect in Thursday's edition.
   (WSJ Jan. 27, 1992)