U.S., Japan Reach Accord
   On Series of Trade Measures
   ---
   Word of Agreement Follows
   Assertions of Differences;
   Details Set for Release
   ----
   By Christopher J. Chipello and Michel McQueen
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
While working-level officials bargained over the action
plan, President Bush and Japanese Prime Minister Kiichi
Miyazawa announced yet another initiative, a grandly titled
"Strategy for World Growth," which U.S. officials described
as a major commitment on both sides to pursue domestic
policies that will improve their countries' -- and thus the
world's -- economic performance. While the document was
mainly a reiteration of previously adopted measures, senior
U.S. officials sought to portray it, and the rest of the
day's deliberations, in the most positive light.
   A joint statement on the growth strategy, issued before
Mr. Bush became indisposed at dinner yesterday, included a
passage that appeared to endorse the dollar's recent weakness
against the yen. According to the document, Mr. Bush and Mr.
Miyazawa "reviewed developments in financial markets and
agreed that recent exchange-rate movements were consistent
with current economic developments. They expressed confidence
that the above measures and developments will contribute to
correction of external imbalances." A stronger yen makes
foreign goods cheaper for Japanese buyers and, in theory,
should stimulate imports by Japan.
   U.S. Treasury officials confirmed that the language was
meant to endorse the recent strength of the yen against the
dollar.
   U.S. Treasury Secretary Nicholas Brady, who arrived here
Tuesday night to make the announcement, lauded Tokyo's
commitment to make greater public investments, to stimulate
domestic demand and achieve a growth rate of 3.5% next year.
Both the commitment and the 3.5% target were Japanese policy
before the "Strategy for World Growth" was announced,
however. A senior administration official also implied that
the Dec. 30 cut in the Japanese discount rate was coordinated
with similar rate cuts in the U.S. "I'm not going to say if
they were or weren't {coordinated}," the official said, "but
they're awful close together if they weren't coordinated."
   Mr. Brady dispatched his chief international deputy, David
Mulford, to brief the Europeans on the U.S.-Japanese talks.
Mr. Brady said that finance ministers of the Group of Seven
industrialized countries will assemble sometime around Jan.
25. Even in Europe, where interest rates have been rising
lately, there is new awareness of the need for the G-7 to
help restore world-wide economic growth, a Treasury official
said. The official also said that Mr. Miyazawa wants to avoid
a repeat of the late 1980's when Japan's trade surplus
mounted as domestic demand waned.
   Another senior U.S. official involved in the trade talks
told reporters earlier in the day that the trip had been "an
enormous success already" and that "the government of Japan
recognizes that they've got to do something in a pro-active
way to change that {perception that Japan's markets aren't
open} in short order, and also recognize that they're not
doing it on a charitable basis to U.S. firms or the U.S.
government."
   But privately, U.S. officials conveyed a different
message. A lengthy negotiating session ended with
import-target levels for several sectors still unresolved,
U.S. Secretary of Commerce Robert Mosbacher told Kozo
Watanabe, Japan's Minister of International Trade and
Industry, of his dissatisfaction with the negotiations so
far. Aides said Mr. Mosbacher believed the Japanese
government was simply responding to immediate pressures and
was trying to acknowledge the complaints while making minimal
concessions.
   In related developments, several Japanese auto makers
unveiled plans to promote sales of U.S. cars through their
dealership networks, and some also announced further
increases in their planned purchases of foreign auto parts.
The flurry of 11th-hour announcements appeared to reflect
heavy pressure by U.S. officials on the Japanese government
to produce the biggest possible goals for imports in an
industry that accounts for about three-fourths of the $40
billion Japanese trade surplus with the U.S.
   Other issues that remained under discussion Wednesday
evening were Japanese government purchases of foreign
computers and the allegedly closed nature of Japan's
flat-glass and paper markets.
   But autos and auto parts were the focus of attention, with
several of Japan's biggest car companies unveiling further
measures to bolster U.S. sales here.
   Toyota Motor Corp. said it is considering a plan to sell
as many as 5,000 General Motors Corp. cars a year through its
affiliated dealerships. Honda Motor Co. said it will triple
its sales of Chrysler Cherokees. And Mitsubishi Motors Corp.
said it will increase the number of U.S.-made vehicles it
sells in the Japanese market to 6,000 in the fiscal year
beginning in April 1995, up from the 1990 level of 2,543
units. Just two weeks ago, Mitsubishi had set the 1995 goal
at 4,000 units. The total is expected to include
Chrysler-brand models produced by Diamond-Star Motors, a
joint venture of Chrysler and Mitsubishi.
   Although the goals seemed modest for the world's
second-largest car market, actual sales results will of
course depend on the reaction of Japanese buyers, who
generally have a poor image of U.S. autos. A Tokyo television
station aired man-in-the-street interviews yesterday morning
but failed to find a single person interested in buying an
American car.
   In a measure aimed at helping to improve the image of U.S.
cars, the government-affiliated Japan External Trade
Organization was reported to be planning a one billion yen
($8 million) program of nationwide trade fairs to promote
foreign cars in Japan.
   Car makers also continued to announce further increases in
goals for purchasing foreign parts. So far, Japan's Big Five
auto makers have set procurement goals for the year ending in
March 1995 of about $20 billion in foreign parts, including
parts purchased for use in U.S. plants. That compares with
about $8 billion in the fiscal year that ended last March and
is 20% above targets unveiled a few weeks ago. It wasn't
clear how much higher U.S. officials were hoping to see the
figure go.
   "It's not a matter of us accepting anything," said a
senior administration official. The official also said one
unresolved issue on automotive trade concerned methodology
for a planned joint study to analyze how U.S. and Japanese
auto makers choose suppliers for their auto parts.
   Whether the flurry of measures will make a significant
dent in the bilateral trade surplus in the near term seemed
doubtful. And a senior administration official acknowledged
that merely spelling out proposed remedies in the action plan
won't put an end to the trade issues, all of which have been
the subject of continuing bilateral negotation.
   In his meeting yesterday morning with Mr. Miyazawa, Mr.
Bush described the auto issue as a crucial one. But,
according to a Japanese Foreign Ministry spokesman, Mr. Bush
also noted that German cars have sold much better than U.S.
cars in Japan and suggested there may be lessons in that for
the U.S. industry.