Marketing  Media -- Advertising:
   Some Executives See Hints of Turnaround
   ----
   By Joanne Lipman
Mr. Manning is one of a small but influential number of
agency chief executives interviewed recently who say they
sense the beginning of a turnaround in their beleaguered
industry. None sees a return to boom times, but all can
pinpoint anecdotal evidence of the first flutterings of
recovery. Cautiously bullish, they predict a strengthening in
the second half of the year, and they make their predictions
with more confidence than they have had in a long, long time.
   Roy Bostock, chief executive officer of D'Arcy Masius
Benton  Bowles, says he "is on the optimistic side" because
he expects lower interest rates to fuel a second-half
recovery. He even has some evidence to back him up: Recently,
he reviewed spending plans of his agency's top 25 clients,
and found their plans are "a little more bullish" than they
had been in the recent past. His agency's big clients include
Procter  Gamble, Burger King, Anheuser-Busch and Kraft
General Foods, which two weeks ago announced it is increasing
ad spending this year.
   Spending plans for most clients have been boosted to the
levels of two years ago, Mr. Bostock says. And although most
advertisers spent far less last year than they initially
planned, this year "my bet is most of those plans will
materialize," Mr. Bostock says.
   "Things are picking up," agrees Martin Puris, chief
executive officer of Ammirati  Puris, which handles upscale
clients such as BMW, Wedgwood and Nikon. The nation in
general, and clients in particular, have been in a
"psychological recession," he says, and it "has bottomed out.
People are ready to move forward." In just the past three
months, Ammirati has hired 41 employees to keep up with
clients' increased advertising activity.
   The omens are good so far at Interpublic Group's
McCann-Erickson, too, where ads are created for the likes of
Coca-Cola Co. and General Motors. January numbers came in
stronger than expected, and Robert James, chairman and chief
executive officer, says he is encouraged by strengthening
retail sales figures.
   "I ain't putting any bets down yet," says the
characteristically blunt-spoken Mr. James. "But for the first
time, I'm starting to let myself believe that there's some
hope here."
   Allen Rosenshine, the usually circumspect chief executive
officer of Omnicom Group's BBDO, is confident enough these
days to predict 8% to 10% world-wide revenue growth for 1992.
If the effect of acquisitions and divestitures is added in,
growth will be 10% to 12%, he says -- and "these are
conservative estimates." He expects profit levels to increase
even more, a result of improved margins.
   Mr. Rosenshine still has doubts for the long term. He
chalks up the expected improvement not to an economic
turnaround, but to election year maneuvering: "It's obvious
the administration will have to do something" to ease the
economy, he says. Still, he figures a short-term breather is
better than no breather at all.
   While the more bullish CEOs are gaining in numbers and in
confidence, plenty of other agencies remain mired in a
malaise without any end in sight. A number of agency chief
executives, who too often have wrongly predicted an impending
recovery around every corner, are reluctant to be proven
wrong yet again.
   Others just don't see any evidence of a turnaround.
Saatchi  Saatchi Advertising and Interpublic's Lintas are
among those cautioning against too much optimism. At Lintas,
whose $60 million MasterCard International account just
announced a review, "I don't see any exuberant new attitude
on the part of our clients. I'm taking a very cautious view,"
says Ken Robbins, chief executive officer. Adds Edward Wax,
Saatchi's chairman, "It's the same as it has been for the
past two years."
   ---
   Anheuser Media Move
                                                                                                       

   Anheuser-Busch said it was pulling inhouse some $400
million-plus in media buying and planning for its beer
brands, currently split between D'Arcy, Masius, Benton 
Bowles and Omnicom Group's DDB Needham.
   "We think we can do it more efficiently," said Anthony
Ponturo, vice president of corporate media at Anheuser-Busch.
"And we like the control." Anheuser-Busch's in-house media
concern has handled national broadcast media buying for all
of its beers since the unit was created in 1986. Its new
responsibilities, covering all other buying including print
and local broadcast, are set to take effect by July, the
company said.
   The move, first disclosed in Advertising Age, leaves the
ad agencies handling only creative duties. DMBB's St. Louis
office loses at least $140 million in billings connected with
the outdoor, local and sports media it buys for
Anheuser-Busch beers, in addition to media-planning billings
for Budweiser, O'Doul's and Natural Light brands. DDB
Needham's Chicago office loses planning billings for Bud
Light, Bud Dry, Busch and Michelob beers.
   ---
   YR Merges Units
                                                                                                       

   Young  Rubicam said it was merging its sales promotion
unit, Cato Johnson Worldwide, into its direct marketing unit,
Wunderman Worldwide.
   The newly formed Wunderman Cato Johnson claims combined
billings of $1.1 billion. Wunderman Chairman Lester Wunderman
retains the top title. Wunderman president and chief
executive John Sanders and Cato president and chief executive
Jean-Paul Lafaye will share those titles at the new concern.
Mr. Sanders will oversee the company's North and South
American operations and those of its Asian joint venture,
Dentsu Wunderman Direct. Mr. Lafaye will oversee European and
Australian operations.
   Mr. Sanders said the merger won't result in layoffs. The
two units will continue in separate offices, integrating over
time "as clients and the market dictates," said a spokesman
for closely held YR. Competitors speculated Cato's sales
promotion billings were flagging, but YR insisted the move
was strategic -- not financial. "We were seeing overlap and
competitiveness between Wunderman and Cato," said Mr.
Sanders. "The object was to simplify and clarify" their
services.
   ---
   Ad Notes. . . . LOTTERY REVIEW: The California Lottery is
hunting for a new ad agency for its $25 million account,
currently handled by Interpublic Group's Dailey  Associates.
Dailey's contract wasn't due to expire until next year, but a
new marketing director wanted to put the account up for
review, a lottery spokeswoman said. Dailey has been invited
to participate. The new three-year contract is set to start
July 1, with extension options for two more years.
                                                                                                       

   BURGER KING: CK Co., New York, filed a federal lawsuit
against Burger King and Saatchi  Saatchi, charging the Miami
fast-food chain with copyright infringement. CK alleges the
animated characters that Burger King uses in its Kids' Club
are copies of CK's own Curious Kids characters, developed for
educational and licensing purposes in the early 1980s. CK is
seeking estimated damages of $200 million. Burger King, a
unit of Grand Metropolitan PLC, said it wasn't aware of the
suit, but had earlier determined that "CK's claims are
entirely without merit."