Politics  Policy -- Campaign '92:
   Bush, Returning to New Hampshire, Could Get
   A Flinty Reception From Granite State's Voters
   ----
   By John Harwood
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
"He does well as far as the foreign aid goes," grouses
Jack Brooking, a 48-year-old trucker. "Right here, I don't
think he knows too much what's going on. If Bush was one of
us, he'd do something about the people starving to death in
this country."
   What's going on in New Hampshire -- as Mr. Bush will
discover when he arrives in this venerable seacoast town --
is a calamitous economic downturn that has spread fear and
anxiety through households in every corner of the state.
Pease Air Force Base, where the president will land,
essentially shut down last year, taking 800 civilian and
3,400 military jobs with it. The nearby Portsmouth Naval
Shipyard, where negotiators drafted the peace treaty that
ended the Russo-Japanese War just after the turn of the
century, has sliced 1,100 jobs in the past year, and there
are rumors of more layoffs to come. And in every day's
newspapers and newscasts, Mr. Bush gets blamed for economic
decline by GOP primary challenger Patrick Buchanan and the
Democratic presidential field.
   "If you were to pick a state to start the campaign in, it
would not be New Hampshire," says Republican Gov. Judd Gregg,
the president's campaign chairman here.
   New Hampshire and Mr. Bush have had a critical if erratic
courtship over the years. In 1980, his "Big Mo" following his
victory in the Iowa caucuses was abruptly halted when Ronald
Reagan clobbered him here. Then came 1988, the no-new-taxes
pledge and the primary victory that smoothed his path to the
presidency.
   Now, while nobody expects him to lose the GOP nomination,
an unimpressive majority over Mr. Buchanan here would signal
a dangerous vulnerability in the general election. The latest
New Hampshire Poll, conducted last week by the American
Research Group, showed the president leading by the
lackluster margin of 46% to 30%.
   As Mr. Bush prepares for an initial 12-hour foray here,
Mr. Buchanan's guerrilla campaign -- helped by support from
the ever-irascible, right-wing Manchester Union-Leader -- is
crisscrossing the state daily in a bid to harness voter
discontent.
   Last week's gimmick was a powerful rooftop searchlight
that Mr. Buchanan shined into the winter's night sky to mock
the president's absence during a 12-day trip to Asia. "George
Bush seems to want to be president of the world, not
president of the United States," Mr. Buchanan told a cable-TV
interviewer in Portsmouth.
   But Mr. Buchanan's effort is a loosely organized,
hit-or-miss affair. His pollster resigned last week in a
dispute over management and tactics. Though the TV
commentator is greeted effusively in shops and on street
corners, it isn't clear how much that will translate into GOP
votes on Feb. 18. "I've got a campaign slogan for you --
`Wake up, George]'" salesman Steve Chugg tells Mr. Buchanan,
before allowing that he's a member of the state Democratic
committee.
   Mr. Bush's backers say the market for Mr. Buchanan's
"America First" attacks on the administration's free-trade
policies is limited in a state whose economy now depends
heavily on exports. Mr. Buchanan hasn't much at all to say
about health care, another big issue here. Beyond a core of
perpetual malcontents and far-right conservatives -- fewer
than 20% of the GOP primary vote, by most estimates -- Mr.
Buchanan will have trouble building a constituency, Gov.
Gregg says. Yet the challenger, who lumps Mr. Bush with
congressional Democrats as he blasts the "one-party
government" in Washington, remains positioned to harvest
disenchantment with politics-as-usual.
   "We're not really running against him," a top Bush
strategist said last week. "We're running against ourselves."
   That's precisely where Mr. Bush is struggling, as a visit
to Cuzzin Richie's makes clear. Waitress Joyce Mason, whose
previous employer, a once-thriving Italian restaurant, has
shut down, frets that "if I was to lose my job today, I
wouldn't get one." Every day, Manager Peter Pierce says,
skilled-trades workers accustomed to earning $35,000 a year
apply for $5-an-hour dishwashing work. The truck stop itself
remains profitable, but proprietor Michael Neves is
struggling to avoid foreclosure late this month because of
difficulty borrowing money for another venture for which the
truck stop was put up as collateral. "In New England, it's
next to impossible to borrow money right now," he says.
   Mr. Pierce supported the president in 1988, but remains
uncommitted five weeks before the primary. While Mr. Bush
"got geared up for the Persian Gulf situation," he "hasn't
really put forward anything" to handle domestic issues, Mr.
Pierce complains. "What people are really looking for is a
little bit of leadership."
   Such expectations heighten the stakes for Mr. Bush's Jan.
28 State of the Union address, in which the president will
lay out a new economic program. The elements of that program
have become all the more important because of the almost
universally negative reviews of Mr. Bush's just-completed
Asia trip. "Thirsty men want beer, not explanations," says
Thomas Rath, a former state attorney general and a Bush
adviser in Concord. "What {voters} are going to say is, `Can
I go down and apply for a job tomorrow?'"
   Indeed, Vice President Dan Quayle, campaigning in New
Hampshire last week, hinted that the president may bring more
good news when he arrives tomorrow on top of the
election-year assistance the administration has already been
doling out in recent weeks: increased small-business lending
and a passport-processing center that will employ 400 people
at a redeveloped Pease air base.
   Gov. Gregg and his father, former Gov. Hugh Gregg, are
also cranking up a Bush organization that was first assembled
during the 1980 campaign. The elder Gregg says he's "very
concerned" that presidential security requirements won't
permit the sort of down-home campaigning that helped Mr. Bush
in 1988, but he has formidable resources at his disposal. The
president will campaign here at least twice more after this
week, and Vice President Quayle and cabinet members will
blanket the state. Gov. Gregg, Sen. Bob Smith and former Sen.
Gordon Humphrey co-signed an appeal for solidarity that was
mailed to 15,000 "fellow conservatives" last week, and the
Bush-Quayle campaign plans to contact each of the state's
210,000 Republicans by phone and mail before the primary. A
TV blitz is expected to begin soon after the State of the
Union speech.
   "I don't think you can make up for three years of neglect
with a couple of weeks of gifts and attention," Mr. Buchanan
insists. But he concedes that the "royalist and loyalist" GOP
electorate here may ultimately unite behind the president.
University of New Hampshire political scientist David Moore,
whose recent polls show Mr. Bush still popular among
Republicans here, says Mr. Bush "could very well smother
Buchanan without much difficulty."
   Yet Mr. Rath frets that "this is a very volatile, queasy
electorate" and that Mr. Buchanan's angry supporters may be
more motivated than Mr. Bush's larger following to turn out
on Election Day. And if that embarrasses the president by
giving Mr. Buchanan a third or more of the primary vote,
that's just what some Republicans here have in mind. "I
really think he {Mr. Bush} pays too much attention to
{events} abroad," says Meredith Gadbois, a 41-year-old
housewife who heard Mr. Quayle address the Littleton Chamber
of Commerce last week. "I think he ought to be scared a
little bit."