Autos:
   Despite Big 3's Claims of Higher Quality,
   Japanese Still Boast Fewer Safety Recalls
   ----
   By Neal Templin
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Of course, the Big Three sell almost four times as many
cars and trucks in the U.S. as the Japanese. But even
adjusting for that, the numbers are way out of whack. While
Honda recalled one car for every 24 it sold last year, both
Ford and Chrysler recalled more than three-quarters of the
number that they sold. Just yesterday, Ford said it is
recalling 689,000 1988-1991 Taurus and Sable models because
of a defect in the front brakes.
   "The recall comparisons reinforce the view that the Big
Three really haven't completely closed the gap with Japan,"
says analyst Susan Jacobs of Jacobs Automotive, a Little
Falls, N.J., consulting firm. "If you bring out a product
right the first time, there won't be a recall."
   What's more, Japanese cars continued to dominate Consumer
Reports magazine's list of recommended vehicles, released
yesterday. There were a few bright spots for Detroit, though,
notably GM's Saturn cars, which the magazine said had
"exceptional first-year reliability, a breakthrough for a car
designed and built in the U.S."
   Detroit maintains that the recall numbers are misleading
because last year's recalls include models from previous
years when their quality wasn't as good as it is today. The
current Ford cars "are surpassing many of the Japanese in
quality," asserts Ross Roberts, general manager of Ford's
largest marketing division. Ford recalled 2.3 million
vehicles last year, but nearly two-thirds of them were from
previous model years, company officials note.
   Still, some of Detroit's latest models are being hit with
worrisome safety recalls. Just last month, Chrysler quietly
recalled 19,000 1992 model cars and minivans because of a
defective bolt that could cause the vehicles to lose
steering. And Ford announced in November that it was
recalling 755,700 recent-model trucks -- including its
red-hot Explorer sport utility vehicle -- because the
vehicles may roll away when the automatic transmission is
left in the park position. Ford has received 500 reports of
runaway trucks.
   In the Taurus/Sable recall announced yesterday, Ford says
the cars' brake rotors can become corroded and malfunction.
As a result, the cars may take longer to stop and pull to one
side. The recall affects only cars sold or registered in 14
Midwestern and Northeastern states where road salt is used
heavily. Ford says it isn't aware of any accidents caused by
the defect.
   The Japanese aren't immune to recalls. Nissan last year
recalled 33,000 vans after it received 20 reports of engine
fires caused by leaking power steering fluid. Back in 1989,
Toyota had to recall its newly launched Lexus luxury car
because of a serious cruise-control defect.
   Honda has an impressive recall record the past three
years, but it recalled more than 700,000 vehicles in 1988 and
is expected to announce in the next few days another big
recall of Honda Accords built in the mid-1980s that are prone
to fuel leaks.
   Even so, all three Japanese companies had significantly
lower recall rates in 1991 than their U.S. counterparts. The
numbers bounce around a lot from year to year, and Ford and
Chrysler each had relatively few recalls in 1990. But over
the past three years -- 1989 through 1991 -- two of the three
Japanese companies had far lower recall rates than any U.S.
car maker. The exception is Nissan, which recalled 750,000
trucks in 1990 because of a technicality: The vehicles
carried an incorrect tire-inflation sticker.
   Virtually all recalls today are classified as voluntary
actions by car makers, which are required to tell the
government promptly of any defects. In reality, car makers
often don't initiate recalls until they learn that the
federal traffic safety agency has launched its own
investigation of a suspected defect.
   As a result, safety recalls aren't the definitive measure
of quality, particularly on any specific model. A model with
exceptionally high overall quality ratings -- such as the
Lexus -- may be hit with a safety recall while another model
with lousy paint and loose trim may never get a safety
recall.
   Sometimes, too, alarming safety problems don't result in
recalls. Last December, GM sent letters to 1.5 million owners
of 1986 and 1987 cars that are prone to stalling. The problem
has been linked to 300 accidents and one death, GM says.
Still, the federal traffic safety agency didn't require a
safety recall once GM had sent out its letters.
   But over time, high numbers of recalls often indicate high
numbers of other car problems, says Derek Tetlow, a Nissan
engineering executive. "Recall problems are just the tip of
the iceberg of the types of problems you have with vehicles,"
he says. "These are just the serious ones."
   Reducing the high number of safety recalls has proved an
elusive task for Detroit. The Big Three say one reason --
GM's tactics on the stalling problem notwithstanding -- is
that they initiate recalls today for problems that they
probably would have ignored in the past. Chrysler, for
instance, recalled 640,000 minivans last year after receiving
just four reports of a damaged seat-belt anchor.
   "We bend over backwards to make sure if there's any
question the vehicles are brought in," says Dale Dawkins,
Chrysler's director of vehicles compliance. "If that makes
the numbers big, so be it. The arithmetic of recalls doesn't
make a difference to what we're going to do."
   Nonetheless, Detroit's bigwigs have complained to
underlings for years about the high number of recalls, partly
because they're so expensive. Some of the large ones cost
tens of millions of dollars, which is why Ford and GM won't
announce a major recall unless it has been approved by their
top officers.
   Car makers also worry about what safety recalls do to
their image. That's why Ford, while acknowledging that it
recalled one vehicle for every 1.3 that it sold last year,
notes that the recalls totaled "only" 6% of the 38 million
Fords on the road.
   It's also why Chrysler and Toyota rarely announce their
recalls. Instead, both usually send out letters to affected
owners without issuing a news release. That way, the news
media rarely report the recalls until they appear in the
traffic-safety agency's monthly report.
   "You get a double hit" of bad publicity by announcing
safety recalls, explains Tom Houston, Chrysler's manager of
media relations, "because you get another hit when the
federal government puts it out."