What's News --
   World-Wide
The Supreme Court denied former Ku Klux Klan leader David
Duke's latest attempt to get on Georgia's Republican
presidential primary ballot.
   ---
   Thousands of Communists clashed with riot police in Moscow
as the protesters marched to the Kremlin, denouncing
President Yeltsin as a traitor and demanding restoration of a
united Soviet army. The demonstration marked the most violent
unrest in the Russian capital since the Soviet Union was
dissolved in December.
   ---
   Arabs and Israelis halted their shooting in southern
Lebanon for the first time in a week, and about 200 Shiite
guerrillas left the battle zone. On Friday, Israeli troops
withdrew from two villages after a brief incursion northward
from Israel's self-declared security zone. A new round of
Mideast talks is due to start today in Washington.
                                                                                                       

   Israeli cabinet ministers urged the White House to stop
linking approval of loan guarantees to a halt in Jewish
settlements in the occupied territories. Settlement leaders
said they met with Prime Minister Shamir, who assured them he
would push for the development of the West Bank and Gaza
Strip.
   ---
   The Bush administration lifted trade sanctions it imposed
on China because of Beijing's role in exporting missile
technology to the Third World. The action clears the way for
renewed U.S. sales to China of sensitive, military-related
equipment and of satellite parts and high-speed computers.
   ---
   The Senate passed, by a 93-1 vote Friday, a higher
education bill that increases federal grants and loans to
middle-income college students and cracks down on schools
with high rates of student loan defaults.
   ---
   John E. Frohnmayer resigned under fire Friday after a
stormy three-year tenure as chairman of the National
Endowment for the Arts, during which he was criticized by
conservatives for funding sexually explicit art. Frohnmayer,
49, also was attacked by some unconventional artists for
rejecting their requests for federal grants.
   ---
   Fifteen Iraqi opposition leaders met in Saudi Arabia to
seek a united front capable of toppling Saddam Hussein. The
closed-door session in Riyadh was the first such meeting to
be officially sanctioned by Saudi authorities since the Gulf
War ended.
                                                                                                       

   A Pentagon draft report says Iraq's civilian
infrastructure suffered greater damage during the Persian
Gulf War than was intended because the Defense Department
failed to communicate target restrictions, according to the
New York Times.
   ---
   About 15,000 people rallied in Titograd, the capital of
Montenegro, to demand that their small Yugoslav republic join
four others in seeking independence. The governments of
Montenegro and Serbia are the only two of Yugoslavia's six
republics that have agreed to stay in the federation.
   ---
   Pope John Paul II urged economically advanced countries to
help save Africa from "the tragic spread of AIDS," which he
said is undermining the continent's development. The pontiff,
who spoke in Banjul, Gambia, is on an eight-day visit to West
Africa.
   ---
   At least seven people were killed in artillery fire in the
capital of the disputed Nagorno-Karabakh region of
Azerbaijan. More than 100 shells reportedly were fired at
Stepanakert, where the targets were said to include a
military barracks. Armenians and Azerbaijanis have been
fighting over the disputed enclave for four years.
   ---
   Haiti's quarreling factions conferred in Washington and
weighed a proposal by the Organization of American States for
restoration of democracy to the Caribbean nation and for the
return to power of exiled President Aristide, ousted in a
Sept. 30 coup.
   ---
   Leftist guerrillas bombed a truck carrying army troops in
Colombia, killing 15 people, authorities in Bogota said.
Saturday's attack, on a jungle road about 90 miles north of
the capital, occurred hours after the rebels had requested a
delay in the resumption of peace talks with the government.
   ---
   The 1992 Winter Olympics closed in Albertville, France.
Germany was No. 1 in the final medal count, winning 26; U.S.
athletes took home a total of 11 medals.
   ---
   Died: Eugene R. Black, 93, president of the World Bank
from 1949 to 1962, Thursday, in Southampton, N.Y.
   (See related letter: "Letters to the Editor: Africa and
AIDS" -- WSJ March 18, 1992)
   920224-0023