Bethlehem Steel
   Agrees to Payments
   In Pollution Case
   ---
   By Bruce Ingersoll
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
In a statement, Bethlehem Steel said, "The problems of the
past are being corrected and we are making provisions for the
future, which include using a broad range of environmental
controls and technologies in our operations and continually
improving our operating practices."
   The $32 million will finance a variety of new pollution
controls, including some on technology's "cutting edge," at
the Bethlehem facility, an EPA spokeswoman said. The company
already has invested $1.6 million at the Johnstown facility
to reduce emission of particulates, which are tiny particles.
   The decrees, coupled with an earlier agreement to curb air
pollution at the company's Burns Harbor, Ind., facility, wrap
up more than four years of litigation between the steelmaker
and the government over air-pollution violations.
   When the agency sued Bethlehem Steel in August 1987, one
of its primary objectives was to curb potentially toxic
emissions from coke ovens at the Bethlehem and Burns Harbor
facilities. Yesterday, the agency characterized coke-oven
pollution as "an organic soup of known carcinogens."
   The decrees, said regional EPA administrator Edwin
Erickson, will "significantly improve" air quality,
particularly in "reducing the threat of cancer from coke-oven
emissions in Bethlehem."
   In a May 1991 settlement, Bethlehem Steel agreed to pay
$600,000 in civil penalties and to change its coke-oven
practices, among other things, at Burns Harbor.
   Under yesterday's agreements, the company will pay a $1.7
million penalty for particulate violations at the Johnstown
mill's electric-arc furnace. The proceeds will be split by
the EPA and the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental
Resources.
   The second penalty -- $5 million -- will cover air
pollution violations at the Bethlehem mill. The EPA will
receive $3.5 million and the state agency $1.5 million.
   The decrees are to be formally entered as court orders
after a 30-day period for public comment.