Law:
   Job Interviews
   Pose Rising Risk
   To Employers
   ----
   By Junda Woo
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
In the age of litigation, job interviews can easily
provide fodder for hiring-discrimination lawsuits. Though
such claims are seldom brought and hard to prove, lawyers and
consultants say the interview mine field is growing more
treacherous as the law gets tougher.
   In July, when part of the Americans With Disabilities Act
takes effect, interviewers will have to increase their
vigilance about questions regarding disabilities or medical
histories. These subjects will be barred unless the applicant
brings them up. "There's a whole lot of confusion, and it's
going to get worse," says Diane Afes, project director of
Operation Job Match, a Washington, D.C., group that helps
people with disabilities find work.
   The latest widely publicized job-interview case involves
Delta Air Lines, which was the target of 62 civil complaints
filed by the New York City Human Rights Commission, each
involving a potential penalty of $100,000. Delta applicants
charge that they were asked about sexual preferences, birth
control and abortions. One says she was even asked about her
son's relationship with his natural father. A spokesman for
Delta, Neil A. Monroe, says the Atlanta-based carrier never
asked inappropriate questions and didn't discriminate.
   Whatever the merits of those charges, discriminatory
interview tactics are surprisingly common, according to
lawyers, job hunters and employment consultants.
   "We see discriminatory questions continuously," says James
Challenger, president of Challenger, Gray  Christmas Inc.,
an outplacement firm in Chicago. Companies get away with more
in a recession because people are more desperate for jobs, he
says, adding that he advises applicants to answer all
questions because "the company has the cards."
   Discrimination specialists say small businesses are the
worst offenders and that the most common gaffe is asking a
woman about child care, an inquiry that assumes women are
responsible for child rearing. A paramedic supervisor in
Crown Point, Ind., made that mistake in 1987, and the woman
he had interviewed was initially awarded $60,000 in damages
and attorney fees. After a four-year battle, an appeals court
reversed the decision, saying that while the supervisor had
asked the question, he hadn't discriminated in hiring.
   Big business, despite training programs for interviewers,
also is vulnerable to discrimination suits, according to a
recent survey. When 200 interviewers and recruiters for
Fortune 500 companies were shown a dozen "inappropriate"
questions, 70% thought at least five were safe to ask,
according to Hanigan Consulting Corp., a New York recruitment
consulting firm. The five varied among those questioned.
   Most knew that inquiries relating to age or sex are
forbidden under anti-discrimination laws. Questions about
arrest records, though flagged as a problem by fewer
recruiters, also could trigger litigation because an
individual must be presumed innocent unless convicted of a
crime.
   The survey also touched on hazier areas, such as asking
applicants whether they know someone at the company. The
consulting firm's president, Maury Hanigan, says such a query
might reveal a bias toward white, middle-class men, who are
most likely to have friends at many companies. Another
possibly dangerous question would be whether the applicant
could travel on weekends. Because Orthodox Jews can't travel
on Saturdays, questions along these lines might be construed
as betraying religious discrimination. "Some companies know
the exposure risk and just decide to take it," Ms. Hanigan
says.
   The odds are with such companies. Hiring discrimination
cases are among the hardest to prove, says Joseph M. Sellers,
an attorney with the Washington Lawyers Committee for Civil
Rights Under Law. "It happens a lot, but most people aren't
inclined to want to sue," Mr. Sellers says.
   Businesses say most discriminatory questions get asked
accidentally. Often, the artless questioner only interviews
people a few times a year and feels no need to learn more
sensitive tactics. "We may still have people who may be
consciously biased, and that is a problem on one level," says
Gerald H. Parks, a human-resources manager for General
Electric Co. "But a lot of it is unconscious."
   One problem for interviewers is that there's no standard
list of taboo questions. The Equal Employment Opportunity Act
bars discrimination on the basis of age, race, color, sex,
religion or national origin, but doesn't specify what is
discriminatory beyond that. Discrimination laws also differ
from state to state.
   Still, businesses can easily avoid trouble, says Robert C.
Christenson, an Atlanta lawyer who represents companies in
discrimination cases. The best approach is to conduct a legal
seminar with employees who do hiring. With a little practice,
they learn to turn a risky question such as "Do you have
children?" into "Is there any limit on your ability to work
overtime?"
   "You need to focus on the technical qualifications of the
job," Ms. Hanigan says, adding that even conscientious
interviewers can slip up during informal lunches with
candidates. "Sort of general-interest or curiosity questions
have no place while you're in the hiring mode."