Letters to the Editor:
   Get 'Em Hooked While They're Young
The same issue of the Journal also mentioned that Philip
Morris has agreed to run "anti-smoking" messages as part of
its sponsorship of a major road race in New York. Maybe Mr.
Crovitz would reply to that, "See] See] They really don't
want young people to smoke]" As Fred Rogers might say: "Can
you say `reverse psychology'?" Of course, the tobacco
companies want young people to smoke; if they don't start as
children or teen-agers, they will most likely never become
addicted.
   Clearly, the tobacco industry has become a "genocide
syndicate," killing 500,000 Americans each year with a
product that is deadly when used as intended. And they kill
millions more each year in other parts of the world. The only
good coffin nails are those that go into the coffin of the
tobacco industry.
   David A. Fusco
   Executive Director
   Arlington Citizens for Clean Air
   Arlington, Texas
   ---
   Mr. Crovitz is disingenuous when he says smokers now suing
tobacco companies "are typically people who smoked despite
knowing better." The tobacco companies are facing lawsuits
now in large part because they successfully stonewalled on
the health issue for many years and employed hardball PR
tactics to challenge and ridicule virtually every scientific
study that linked smoking to health risks. The tobacco
industry said in effect, "You haven't proven anything
concrete yet because you haven't produced the smoking gun" of
direct causation.
   An ironic result of these campaigns was that smokers
(including me for several years) were able to rationalize on
the health risk -- "Hey, if smoking causes cancer, what about
all those old guys who've smoked two packs a day all their
lives?" As a consequence, smokers were lulled into believing
the health risk issue was greatly overblown and kept on
puffing through the '60s and '70s. Meanwhile, the tobacco
industry, aware that many of its best customers were dying
off, targeted "replacement" smokers -- young people and
blacks. I'm no lawyer, but it seems clear there is now a
"smoking gun," and its pointed directly at the tobacco
companies.
   Garland Bradshaw
   Warren, Ohio