Nomura Analysts Break Tradition
   By Giving Investors the Bad News
   ----
   By Quentin Hardy
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Nomura Research's Japanese compatriots are shocked by the
firm's assault on tradition. "What Nomura is doing is
remarkable," says an official at Daiwa Securities Co., who
didn't want to be identified. "Our company doesn't have such
a plan. In Japan, we don't disclose negative information."
   But with the Japanese securities industry on the ropes,
stock analysts are increasingly under pressure to attract
clients, and may find a virtue in negativity. Volume on the
Tokyo Stock Exchange -- which three years ago was as high as
two billion shares a day -- has exceeded 300 million shares
just once this year; trading frequently falls to below 200
million shares. Current volume levels are less than half the
estimated minimum needed for Japanese brokerage houses to be
profitable.
   Of course, U.S. securities analysts are often reluctant to
issue "sell" recommendations, either at home or abroad. Not
only is bad news a downer for most clients, but a broker's
list of prospects interested in a sell report is limited to
investors holding the stock, and the few who prefer to short
the market. With a "buy" order, the salesman can call anyone.
   Nevertheless, U.S. and European brokerage houses do tell
people to unload stocks. Japanese houses don't.
   To a Western observer, Nomura Research's experiment with
gloom may seem remarkably mild so far. The negative ratings,
published in the institute's weekly magazine, name stocks
that Nomura Research thinks will underperform the Tokyo stock
market by more than five percentage points in the coming
three- and 12-month periods. The institute also rates those
stocks expected to perform better than, and in line with, the
market.
   Of the 51 companies Nomura Research has reviewed so far as
part of its new strategy, 20 are rated negative for the short
term. Just five are expected to continue to underperform the
market over 12 months.
   And when Nomura Research is critical, it's for very polite
reasons. Japan's Arabian Oil Co., for example, is given a
poor outlook because of a bearish oil market.
   Kyocera Corp., Nomura says, faces poor domestic demand.
All of the companies Nomura Research rates low can similarly
ascribe their problems to external factors.
   There are no reviews of companies with such internal
problems as high debt or too much capacity, though foreign
securities research firms find scores of Japanese companies
with such woes.
   "We did talk about Minolta {Camera Co.}, and their patent
struggle with Honeywell {Inc.}," in which the Japanese
company lost a $96 million decision for patent infringement,
says Yukio Suzuki, head of research at Nomura Research. "But
investors knew about that already," he is quick to add.
   Japanese brokerage firms traditionally issue two kinds of
recommendations, which amount to "buy" or "hold." A judgment
of "sell" -- deemed to show insufficient confidence in a
Japanese company, which could also be a potential customer
for securities underwritings -- has always been considered a
four-letter word among Japanese analysts, and this has
affected how institutions and individuals trade stocks in
Japan.
   Stockbrokers can give buyers enough cheery reports to
choke the biggest bear, while pessimists and profit-takers
have received little published research support. A powerful
customer might get an informal negative view, but there has
always been an aversion to publicly talking down companies.
   Even Nomura Research, which plans to pass its put-downs to
Nomura's brokers, is impressively polite about the negative
ratings. "Japanese investment society is a little different,"
Mr. Suzuki says. "For some problem companies, we hesitate to
publish" bad ratings. When Nomura Research does bash a
company, "I have to go to the company and explain," Mr.
Suzuki says.
   Before small investors read the evaluations, "we have to
educate Nomura salesmen," he says. Nomura's "underperform"
rating of a "relatively bad" company is, he insists, not so
much a "sell" signal as "an expression that's good for
Japanese investors."
   Western securities firms have been all too happy to
downgrade Japanese companies and give "sell" recommendations,
drawing the ire of some targets but also winning business
from big investors happy to hear contrary views.
   Mr. Suzuki expects Nomura Research eventually to rate more
than 400 companies under his three-category scale, which he
hopes will bring more customers to Nomura. That would be
welcome: During the past 12 months, Nomura's stock has
underperformed the market by 7.8 percentage points.