Marketing  Media:
   Effort to Recall
   Drip Coffee Makers
   Is Renewed by GE
   ----
   By Robert J. Brennan
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Although the GE spokesman said the recall effort so far
was considered very successful, a spokesman for the safety
commission in Washington said, "We thought they needed to get
more back, and we advised them to do some further publicity."
   About nine million of the appliances were made between
1976 and 1984, and sold for between $20 and $50. The GE
consumer appliances spokesman said the average recommended
useful life for such small appliances is six to seven years,
putting even those existing coffee makers beyond their
recommended life. Although "many of them are still being used
with no apparent problem," he said, GE is pressing for
further returns to reduce the potential for future accidents.
The units were manufactured before April 28, 1984, when GE
sold its small-appliance business to Black  Decker Corp.
   GE and the federal Consumer Product Safety Commission
announced the recall in March 1991. The company said it has
received about 500 complaints of overheating by the units,
and several cases were alleged to have caused fires that
resulted in death or serious injury. About 380 of the
complaints include property-damage claims ranging from $300
to as much as $1.3 million, GE said.
   GE said it was continuing to offer owners $10 for each
unit returned, to be mailed when it receives the returned
unit. It said it also is providing consumers with prepaid
mailing cartons for the units, and will arrange pickup of the
units at consumers' homes. As GE said previously, its Space
Maker drip coffee makers and its percolators aren't involved
in the recall. It said owners of the coffee makers should
call a special toll-free line for the recall, (800) 443-9000.
   A spokeswoman for Black  Decker, Towson, Md., said it
solved the fuse problem when it bought the appliance line by
adding a second fuse to the coffee maker. She said Black 
Decker has never had a recall or regulatory action in
connection with the coffee maker.