How Israel Spends $1.8 Billion a Year
   At Its Purchasing Mission in New York
   ----
   By Edward T. Pound and David Rogers
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
The lifeblood of the mission's operation is a $1.8 billion
military aid program that is unique in its size and the
discretion permitted by the U.S. Israel relies more than any
other aid recipient on commercial sales rather than the more
conventional government-to-government deals, which give the
Pentagon greater control. In the past four fiscal years, the
New York mission estimates it spent a total of $5.7 billion
in U.S. military assistance, of which 60%, or $3.42 billion,
went to commercial contracts.
   Coordinating this spending through the mission gives
Israel greater purchasing power and avoids administrative
costs. But the result is to heighten the role of the New York
mission as both the bargaining unit and overseer of Israel's
procurement program.
   About 40 people oversee the operation, which relies on a
much larger, rotating staff of nearly 190 Israeli college
students to implement the multitude of purchase orders. The
turnover strengthens the hand of career military officers,
whose seniority and grasp of technology make it easier for
them to control the civilian staff. Gen. Rami Dotan exploited
these opportunities and was driven in part by his ambition to
circumvent New York and gain control over the Air Force's
engine budget.
   Israel, the largest recipient of U.S. military and
economic aid, enjoys unusually wide latitude in spending the
funds. For all other countries but Israel, the Defense
Security Assistance Agency (DSAA) insists on disbursing U.S.
aid dollars directly to contractors, even in the case of
commercial sales. But the Israeli mission is free to pay
suppliers itself and later seek reimbursement from its aid
account, while earning interest from the U.S. Treasury.
   The result is to further distance DSAA from dealing with
the contractors receiving aid funds. Under the rules for
Israeli aid, the U.S. government isn't required to make a
prior financial review of contracts of $500,000 or less,
representing 89% of the orders typically placed by the
mission. In total dollars, they are far less -- about 16%.
This adds up to $912 million over the past four years.
   The system was ripe for the schemes of Gen. Dotan.
Pentagon records indicate that he and his allies parceled out
work orders to stay under the $500,000 threshold. Records
show, for example, that a U.S. company in which Gen. Dotan
held a secret financial interest received $7.1 million broken
into 47 purchase orders averaging $151,000.
   Israel enjoys other special benefits in how it spends
military aid. Unlike other countries, Israel is free to spend
much of its aid within its own borders -- as much as $475
million this year. Congress's General Accounting Office has
criticized the Pentagon for allowing Israel to spend this
money freely -- for fuel, ammunition and other military
staples, instead of entirely on "advanced weapons systems,"
as the GAO says the law requires. The Pentagon's "flexible
approach," the GAO says, is "tantamount to a cash transfer
program." The Defense Department rejects the GAO's assertion.
   The Dotan Affair has brought renewed scrutiny to the
mission, where officials count themselves among the general's
victims. "Dotan cheated everybody," says a high procurement
official who likens the scandal to an "earthquake." In the
wake of the scandal, two lesser but still embarrassing cases
of wrongdoing involving buyers have been flushed out. And
after ignoring critics in the past, mission officials now say
there is an effort to tighten rules generally.
   In a direct challenge to the military old-boy network,
Moshe Kochanovsky, the director of the New York mission, has
ordered buyers to report cases in which former defense
officials are working for companies seeking business from the
mission. The directive should keep the buyers busy: Many U.S.
firms are represented by former Israeli generals and defense
officials.
   Although commercial sales will continue, the new policy
also gives preference to government-to-government
transactions that can be better watched, even if these
transactions come at a higher cost than commercial deals. "We
want to use this opportunity to rock the boat a little bit,"
says an Israeli official. "It is a good opportunity."
   (See related story: "The Money Trail: U.S. Firms Are
Linked To an Israeli General At Heart of a Scandal --- Funds
for Defense Contracts Were Diverted, but Why? Investigations
Broaden --- Bundles of Cash in a Mercedes" -- WSJ Jan. 20,
1992)