Canadian Firms' Shipments, New Orders
   Drop Again, Reflecting Economy's Woes
   ----
   By John Urquhart
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
January was the fifth consecutive month in which shipments
and new orders declined and the ninth consecutive month in
which unfilled orders dropped.
   The downturn has driven some companies out of business and
prompted others to abandon production in favor of more
limited assembly or distribution activities, said Jayson
Myers, chief economist of the Canadian Manufacturers'
Association.
   Some companies, in search of a more hospitable
environment, have moved their operations to the U.S. Lawson
Mardon Group Ltd., a packaging manufacturer, said last week
that it was closing a Toronto packaging plant and moving
production to a new factory near Syracuse, N.Y., to be more
competitive in the U.S. market.
   Steven Langdon, an opposition New Democratic Party member
of Parliament, blamed the government's fiscal and monetary
restraints for much of the manufacturing industry's
difficulties. "This government is turning Canadian factories
into ghost towns," he told the House of Commons.
   Gilles Loiselle, minister of state for finance, said "the
manufacturing industry is indeed going through a very
worrisome period." He attributed the industry's difficulties
to "very weak" Canadian and foreign demand for manufactured
goods.
   Manufacturing employment has declined for the past five
months and a recent government survey said manufacturers
intend to cut their plant and equipment spending 4.2% this
year following a 14.6% reduction last year.
   The downturn is more broadly based than in the past,
hitting manufacturing in all provinces, said Mr. Myers. In
the 1991 fourth quarter, manufacturers operated at 70.2% of
capacity, down from 71.7% in the preceding three months.
   Much of the weakness in January activity was attributed to
the auto industry. Shipments of transportation equipment,
including autos, dropped 4.8% in January from December and
unfilled transportation equipment orders declined 1.3%.
   Paul Ferley, Bank of Montreal's senior economist, said the
January manufacturing figures "don't inspire much confidence
that things are going to turn around soon." But he said a
pickup in the U.S. economy, particularly a recovery in the
auto market, would provide a big boost to Canadian producers.
He noted that the U.S. takes more than 75% of Canada's
exports.