Annuities: Treasury's Switch May Spur Buying
   ----
   By Ellen E. Schultz
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The Bush administration's original plan would have applied
to all annuity contracts entered into starting last Saturday.
Insurance executives warned that the deadline would dry up
annuity sales almost immediately.
   But late Friday, the Treasury Department said that the
provision instead would apply to all new annuity contracts
entered into on or after the day the tax-law proposal is
signed into law by the president after being passed by
Congress.
   That change could trigger a rush by investors to buy
annuities before Congress makes a decision. The president has
asked that Congress adopt his tax plan by March 20.
   "Now would be the time to buy," says Geoff Bobroff, a
senior vice president who analyzes annuities at Lipper
Analytical Services Inc. in Denver.
   The change in the effective date also could turn a time of
gloom for insurance agents and brokers who sell annuities
into the marketing opportunity of a lifetime. "There could be
a renewed enthusiasm on the sales side to get people to come
on board," says Mr. Bobroff.
   However, he cautions that annuity marketers could shoot
themselves in the foot if their efforts are too aggressive.
"If they get to the point of running full-page ads, they
could incite certain members of Congress to alter the status
of annuities," he says.
   The Treasury Department for years has been wanting to kill
the tax advantages of annuities because many investors use
them as a form of tax shelter rather than as a retirement
savings program.
   Annuities are intended to supply people with a savings
vehicle for retirement that would begin to provide them with
a steady income in their old age. As with an individual
retirement account, earnings in an annuity build up without
being taxed until the money is withdrawn. But unlike an IRA,
an annuity isn't subject to limits on contributions.
   Because of the tax advantages, people have been shoveling
billions of dollars into annuities in recent years. But fewer
than 10% of the investors who have purchased around $40
billion in individual annuities choose lifetime payouts. Most
take lumpsum payouts or payments over a period of years,
suggesting they are using annuities as a tax-sheltered
savings vehicle.
   That's what the administration proposal would put an end
to. The proposal would generally allow individuals
tax-deferred build-up of earnings only in annuities with
"substantial life" contingencies -- that is, annuities that
pay out a lifetime income based on the individual's life
expectancy.
   The $120 billion or so in group annuities in company
pension and retirement plans would not be affected by the
administration proposal. Also excluded would be "structured"
annuities that employees receive when their pension plans are
eliminated. And the proposal would not change the tax status
of individual annuities that investors already own.
   Lipper's Mr. Bobroff cautions that investors who rush to
buy individual annuities now should remember that Congress
has the power to make the provision retroactive to the date
it was proposed. For example, in the Tax Reform Act of 1986,
the elimination of passive loss deductions for real estate
was made retroactive to the proposal date.
   On Friday, stocks of some insurance companies that rely
heavily on annuity sales ended lower. Conseco Inc. shares
tumbled $7 to $68.25 in New York Stock Exchange trading.