Science:
   Research on Lead Poisoning Is Questioned
   ----
   By Gary Putka
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Dr. Needleman's work helped awaken scientists and
regulators to lead's hidden dangers. His findings that lead
can damage the intelligence of children -- who typically
ingest it from eating paint chips or dust in old homes --
helped prompt U.S. environmental and health officials to
tighten guidelines on acceptable levels.
   Although no one disputes that lead in the body is
dangerous at some level, some scientists say that if Dr.
Needleman were discredited, the rationale for the tightened
federal restrictions could be called into question.
   Dr. Needleman's case is being closely watched by many in
the scientific community who are angry at the NIH for what
they see as overzealousness in its investigations, which have
recently impugned several other prominent scientists. The
case has also caught the attention of environmentalists, who
are encountering increasing criticism of the research
supporting federal regulation of substances such as dioxin,
radon, alar and other hazards.
   Two scientists say their reviews of Dr. Needleman's work
suggest that he misrepresented data in two studies. One of
the studies, published in 1979 in the New England Journal of
Medicine, is recognized as the first that demonstrated low
lead levels in the body could damage intelligence even when
there were no physical symptoms of poisoning. Also under
scrutiny is a 1990 follow-up on that work.
   Dr. Needleman's accusers, Prof. Claire B. Ernhart of Case
Western Reserve University in Cleveland and Prof. Sandra
Scarr, a child development specialist at the University of
Virginia, filed a complaint with the NIH in May that led to
the Pittsburgh inquiry.
   The inquiry panel at Pitt, a copy of whose report was made
available to The Wall Street Journal, recommended that Pitt
conduct a full investigation of Dr. Needleman. The report
said it is "doubtful" that the two reports by Dr. Needleman
"represent a fair and accurate ascertainment" of the
relationship between lead and intelligence quotients in the
first and second graders under study. Based on its findings
that Dr. Needleman omitted key data from his reported
results, the panel also said that "it is not able at this
time to exclude the possibility of research misconduct in
terms of misrepresentation."
   Dr. Needleman strenuously denies he has misrepresented
research data or done anything wrong, and he argues that he
is the victim of a lead industry effort to protect its
franchise. Dr. Ernhart has received research grants from the
lead industry, and Dr. Scarr was once retained as an expert
witness on behalf of a company sued by the government in a
lead cleanup case.
   The Pitt panel's report, Dr. Needleman says, "was
tendentious, uninformed and wrong." He adds, "They were wrong
on every count, and that's puzzling to me. What happened is
they chose not to read the things I gave them -- or if they
read them, they chose to ignore them."
   The dispute is being played out against a backdrop of
increasing congressional and public concern about lead.
Congress is currently considering about a dozen bills on
lead, including measures that would compel sellers to
disclose to buyers lead's presence in houses, provide more
money for lead screening and tax lead to pay for abatement.
Screening of young children for lead is also on the rise.
   The Centers for Disease Control lowered its threshold
definition of dangerous levels of lead in the blood last
October. The CDC reduced the threshold by 60%, to 10
micrograms a deciliter from 25 micrograms a deciliter. In
terms of weight, the new standard is roughly equivalent to
one part per 10 million. Dr. Needleman was one of 14
scientific advisers who aided the CDC in deciding on the new
standard.
   Dr. Needleman has mounted an aggressive campaign in his
defense and has received the backing of other prominent
scientists. In an unusual move, the Faculty Assembly at Pitt
on Tuesday passed a resolution supporting his demand that the
investigation of his work be conducted in open proceedings.
The university's rules call for the investigation to be
conducted in secret.
   Over the last decade, Dr. Ernhart, a sometime rival of Dr.
Needleman's in lead research, has criticized him frequently
in scholarly journals, professional meetings or through
reporters. She says she has faced professional ostracism
because she has taken on Dr. Needleman, and she says she
resents his charges that she is a shill for the lead
industry.
   "One of his responses has been to shout me down at
professional meetings, another has been to claim I am an
employee of the lead industry," she says. "I know some people
who are skeptical of his work but will not speak out because
of fear of loss of grant work."
   Drs. Needleman and Ernhart "hate each other's guts," says
Donald Hutchings, editor of the journal Neurotoxicology and
Teratology. "They've declared war on each other."
   The dispute between Dr. Needleman and his critics began
after he published his 1979 paper. Seeking a better way to
measure lead in the body than blood tests, Dr. Needleman came
up with the idea of measuring lead in teeth, a more accurate
barometer of cumulative lead exposure.
   Collecting fallen-out baby teeth from thousands of
children in Chelsea and Somerville, Mass., he sorted out the
highest-lead children and the lowest-lead children and gave
them an IQ test. He reported that the low-lead children
scored an average of four points higher -- 106.6 compared
with 102.1.
   Dr. Ernhart soon started to raise questions about Dr.
Needleman's methodology in scientific journals. In 1983, the
Environmental Protection Agency convened a panel of six
scientists, including Dr. Scarr, to review Dr. Needleman's
work, and also some work of Dr. Ernhart, during consideration
of new clean-air standards. The panel found that Dr.
Needleman's study, contrary to its conclusions, did not prove
a link between lead and intelligence deficits. It found that
Dr. Needleman didn't adequately factor in some of the other
variables that could account for the IQ difference, including
age. It also questioned why Dr. Needleman seemed to have done
some analyses that did factor in age but didn't include them
in his findings. And it questioned why Dr. Needleman tested
270 high -and low-level lead students but only reported the
results of 158 of them.
   The Pitt inquiry panel said there were other flaws in the
study. It said that more than a third of the students who
were in the tested group didn't meet Dr. Needleman's own
criteria for high-lead and low-lead children. Based on a
random sample taken of all the children in the study, it also
found that many of them should have been tested but weren't.
In addition to age, it found that other possible explanations
for the IQ differences weren't factored in. The panel said it
found no evidence of falsified data.
   Dr. Needleman says that the EPA panel's charges were
inaccurate and never included in the public record. He also
says that the members of the Pitt panel didn't understand his
criteria for selecting children, which he insists that he
followed. He says that the scale scores he used for measuring
IQ already factored in age, meaning he didn't have to. As for
the group of children tested but not reported on, he says
that he excluded them for a variety of legitimate reasons
fully disclosed in the paper -- including whether they had
previous lead poisoning or head injuries that would throw off
their IQs.
   Whatever the merits of the criticisms of Dr. Needleman,
some scientists, including officials of both the CDC and the
EPA, say that the discrediting of his work wouldn't affect
current federal regulations on lead. "Those studies are
passe," says Lester Grant, director of the EPA's
environmental criteria office. "You have a much larger base
now of better studies that demonstrate lead's effects at
lower levels."
   But others, including Dr. Scarr, disagree. She says that
the bulk of studies conducted since Dr. Needleman's 1979 work
present inconclusive findings.