Technology  Medicine:
   Inventors of PC Spreadsheet to Unveil
   New Version for Pen-Based Computers
   ----
   By William M. Bulkeley
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The two men have developed a $295 spreadsheet called At
Hand for Slate Corp., a closely held Scottsdale, Ariz., firm
that is producing software for the nascent pen market. In
fact, the pen market is so new that At Hand won't go on sale
until after GO Corp., Foster City, Calif., completes work on
an operating system for pen computers early this spring.
Users control pen computers by writing on their screens with
a pen-like wand.
   Pen computers "open up spreadsheets to people who aren't
comfortable with keyboards," says Mr. Bricklin, who is vice
president of Slate's Boston area development center.
Demonstrating At Hand, he prints three numbers in a column;
the computer recognizes them and turns them into neat type.
He taps twice at the top of the column and makes a plus sign
at the bottom; the computer totals the figures. "You can do
back-of-the-envelope calculations in a boardroom or on a
kitchen table," he says.
   The pen computer can also hold huge spreadsheets developed
using Lotus's 1-2-3 or Microsoft Corp.'s Excel, so users can
carry the information around or see the effect of changing
just one or two numbers by hand.
   Mr. Bricklin was 28 and studying at Harvard Business
School when he designed VisiCalc in 1979. Mr. Frankston, who
he had known as an undergraduate at Massachusetts Institute
of Technology, did most of the programming. VisiCalc, which
ran on an Apple computer "really created the personal
computer market," says Esther Dyson, editor of Release 1.0,
an industry newsletter.
   VisiCalc was snapped up by Wall Street analysts, corporate
strategic planners and recently minted MBAs. "It was the
first product useful to large numbers of people that
corporations would spend money on," says Ms. Dyson.
   The two men started a programming company called Software
Arts Inc. and planned to build a giant. But they became
embroiled in litigation, and they misread the market's move
to the International Business Machines Corp.'s personal
computer. Lotus's 1-2-3 quickly took over the spreadsheet
market. In 1985, debt-ridden and discouraged, they sold
VisiCalc to Lotus where Mr. Frankston went to work.
   Mr. Bricklin, who says resignedly, "I didn't even become a
millionaire off of VisiCalc," started programming in his
house. "Dan Bricklin's Demo Program" became popular among
hard-core programmers, and a program for laser printers met
moderate success.
   Messrs. Bricklin and Frankston came together again at
Slate when they became intrigued by the potential of pen
computers. Mr. Bricklin says he designed the prototype of the
product and Mr. Frankston wrote a "scripting language" that
lets users program the pen computers; other programmers did
most of the programming.
   The market potential for At Hand is unclear. Will Fastie,
a software analyst with Alex. Brown  Sons in Baltimore, says
he thinks most pen computers will be used by corporate sales
and service organizations where people will fill out
electronic forms on the screens. "I personally am a little
skeptical of the appeal of horizontal applications," such as
spreadsheets, he says. Ms. Dyson adds, "they've done a nice
spreadsheet, but it won't play the same role in pens that it
did for the PC."
   Mr. Bricklin, who still wears the long black beard and
plaid work shirts he sported in his college days, figures At
Hand wins either way. "For people who have never bought a
computer, this could be a reason to buy it. Other people will
buy the pen computers for custom applications and then
they'll add this."