International:
   Guards at Jerusalem's Invisible Border
   Draw Criticism of Israelis, Palestinians
   ----
   By Amy Dockser Marcus
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Despite his M-16 rifle and special protective jacket
against knife attacks, Mr. Karadi says it can still be
disquieting to walk through Jerusalem's Old City, something
he thinks few Israelis truly understand. "People complain
that we're violent but they don't understand that we have
rocks and molotov cocktails thrown at us night and day," he
says.
   The Old City was once regularly filled with Israelis who
came to bargain and shop. Now Mr. Karadi and his men are
almost the only Israelis in sight, patrolling the invisible
border that has divided Arabs and Israelis in Jerusalem since
the outbreak of the intifada.
   Outside the house owned by right-wing Housing Minister
Ariel Sharon, a 21-year-old border policeman says he isn't
afraid to guard the house, despite the fact that it's been
the site of a number of recent knife attacks. But he is
realistic about how the border police are viewed by the
city's residents: "They hate us for being here," he says.
   That is a view shared by some Israelis who are
uncomfortable with the notion that the border police, rather
than the Israeli army, has primary responsibility for
handling the intifada.
   Mr. Karadi counters that, unlike the army, the border
police are specially trained for confronting civil unrest.
But Israel Shahak, chairman of the Israeli League for Human
and Civil Rights and a long-time critic of the border police,
says using the border guards to do the dirty work of the
intifada allows Israelis to avoid coming to terms with the
reality of the Israeli occupation of the West Bank. "I think
the border guards have actually helped prolong the intifada,"
he says.
   Gadi Lieberman, commander of the border police in
predominantly Arab East Jerusalem, rejects that idea. "We are
at war everyday but it's an odd war because we aren't allowed
to shoot. If we didn't have restrictions, we could have
stopped the intifada by now," he says.
   Mr. Lieberman acknowledges that instances of border
policemen abusing their power do exist. Just last month, a
border policeman was sentenced for killing a 13-year-old
Palestinian boy in a refugee camp and three others were being
investigated for allegedly beating an Arab resident of
Jerusalem. But Mr. Lieberman says these are exceptional
cases.
   Back in the Old City, Mr. Karadi is navigating his way
through the twisted warren of alleyways that lead into the
heart of the Arab quarter. "This is where we found the body
of a religious student who was murdered," he says, pointing
to a wall spray-painted with graffiti. "This is the street
where his killers lived."
   While Mr. Karadi says that most of the shop-owners in the
Old City are peaceful people who would like to see the
intifada end and tourists and Israelis return, he still must
regard everyone with suspicion. "Most of the knife attacks
have been by women. An elderly woman looks innocent but then
she suddenly takes a knife out of her bag and stabs you," he
says.
   Mr. Shahak, the human rights activist, says that despite
efforts by the border police to change their image, the
violence is bound to continue because stopping the intifada
requires a political solution rather than the use of force.
But that is a notion that Mr. Karadi, for one, appears
unwilling to consider, at least publicly.
   "Our job is to provide security so that the government can
make a political decision without pressure," says Mr. Karadi.
"We can provide security forever. We won't be the ones to
break first. The terrorists will."