Speaking of Business:
   Why the Third World Is Embracing Free Trade
   ----
   By Lindley H. Clark Jr.
There were exceptions. The Asian tigers -- South Korea,
Taiwan, Singapore and Hong Kong -- opted increasingly to open
their markets. It worked, too, but the four examples seemed
to do little or nothing to convince other developing
countries that this was the real road to development.
   Then, about 1980, things began to change. Developing
countries, which had fought off free trade like the plague,
suddenly seemed to decide that it was their economic
salvation.
   Why the rush to free trade? Why did it take so long to
develop? And, perhaps most important of all, will it last?
Dani Rodrik, who somehow manages to divide his time among the
Hoover Institution, Stanford University, Harvard and the
National Bureau of Economic Research, deals with those
questions in a new paper (NBER Working Paper No. 3947).
   The author offers a variety of examples of the rush to
freedom, including countries in Latin America, the Caribbean,
Africa, Asia and the Mideast. As he remarks, putting all
these countries together with the newly opening-up nations of
Eastern Europe adds up to a genuine revolution in policy
making.
   The transition was a long time coming in part because many
politically well-connected people had an interest in the
status quo. Tariffs and quotas limit the low-cost,
high-quality imports that otherwise would compete with the
products of domestic manufacturers, an arrangement the
manufacturers would like to see continue.
   It is possible to demonstrate that the average citizen and
the entire economy would benefit from the elimination of such
special privileges, and Mr. Rodrik does so, quite
persuasively. "At this point," Mr. Rodrik writes, "the
economics professor usually stops and rests his case, feeling
smug after this unassailable demonstration of the superiority
of free trade."
   But the gains from free trade are widely dispersed and
difficult to see. They may materialize only over a period of
considerable time. A domestic manufacturer, on the other
hand, can claim, accurately or not, that a new higher tariff
"saved" the jobs of 1,000 workers, and in the U.S. he can
even bring some of those workers up to Congress to argue for
tariffs. Only an occasional economist ever shows up in
Washington to lobby for free trade.
   It's awfully hard for a politician to take income away
from one group to give it to another group -- when he can't
quite understand how and why that other group is benefiting.
   So how did the developing countries ever get started
toward free trade? To some extent, the answer is that they
got pushed. All of the oil money the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries was getting was going into the
banks, and the banks were "recycling" it to the developing
countries. But the Third World couldn't use the money
productively and soon was deeply in debt.
   The World Bank and the International Monetary Fund bailed
out many of the debtors, but in return insisted on broad and
often painful economic reforms -- including free trade. Some
of the debtors had friends in the industrial world and
managed to soften the World Bank-IMF prescriptions. In most
cases, too, reform had a home-grown element. The debt
situation had become so desperate that many countries were
ready to experiment with something as new as free trade.
Mexico, for instance, has moved more aggressively to trade
freedom than the World Bank intended.
   With year after year of negative growth and with inflation
running into triple digits, it's hardly surprising that
countries became willing to experiment. One of the more
interesting experiments came in Chile. In 1973 Chile had the
same problems as its neighbors, high inflation and very low
growth. The country also had a Marxist government, which was
pushed out by Gen. Augusto Pinochet, a dictator.
   Gen. Pinochet was in no rush to get the country back to
democracy, but he had thoughts about the economy -- mostly
opening it up and slowing inflation. The reforms worked,
leading some skeptics to say that an essential element in
such reform was dictatorship. But the country had a free
election, democracy was restored, and free trade was hardly
an issue in the voting. Free trade was a success, and it's
hard to argue with success.
   Will it last -- in Chile and elsewhere? The growing number
of successes are one thing that it has going for it. In
addition, nations have become increasingly aware that free
trade sells better when it's linked with anti-inflationary
reform. Free trade may be hard to see, but everyone can
appreciate stable prices. As Mr. Rodrik concludes, "Nothing
will help sustain open trade policies more than a stable
macroeconomic environment."