Biotechnology
   Product-Review
   Rules May Ease
   ---
   White House Wants to Lift
   U.S. Tests of Genetically
   Engineered Organisms
   ----
   By Bob Davis
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The White House is backing a plan to loosen rules
governing biotechnology, which has been heavily regulated
since the 1970s for fear that genetically altered microbes
could spread rapidly through the environment, causing large
and unanticipated damage. A senior administration official
said that biotechnology research has progressed enough that
scientists can anticipate which genetically altered traits
won't lead to harm. "With benign changes, you don't need
government approval," the official said.
   Currently, the Environmental Protection Agency approves
genetically altered plants or micro-organism that could
spread into the environment. To get EPA approval for
pesticides, companies conduct small-scale field tests to see
if genetically engineered products cause harm once released.
If the pesticides pass that test, they must be field-tested
on areas larger than 10 acres.
   According to the administration plan, university review
boards, rather than the EPA, could decide in some cases
whether field tests are necessary. The administration is
expected to propose that certain genetically engineered
traits, which haven't yet been determined, wouldn't require
field testing. A larger field test would be required for
pesticides, but it isn't clear whether other genetically
engineered products would require that large-scale test.
   The EPA has been in a battle with the White House Office
of Management and Budget about how to craft rules governing
biotechnology. The EPA has been pushing to keep broad
jurisdiction over genetically altered products, and grant
only limited exemptions.
   But administration officials say the agency has agreed to
submit for public comments pesticide regulations that propose
review by university or other outside boards as an "option."
The officials believe that the moratorium will be used to try
to resolve that fight, and push for lessened regulation.
   Bruce Mackler, general counsel of the Association of
Biotechnology Companies, Washington, D.C., said the
administration proposal would represent "a great step
forward" and would encourage investment in biotechnology.
Biotech regulation "now is like a black box," he said. "You
put it in, but you never know when it will come out." The EPA
now is evaluating genetically engineered pesticides and is
responsible for oil-eating microbes, among other products.
Last year set a record for new and secondary public offerings
of biotechnology stocks, with the industry raising more than
$2 billion.
   But Nachama Wilker, executive director for the Council for
Responsible Genetics, a watchdog group in Cambridge, Mass.,
said that loosening regulation could "endanger public health
and safety." Universities couldn't be trusted to impartially
decide which biotech products didn't need field-testing, she
said, because their review boards are frequently filled with
scientists who have financial stakes in biotech companies.
   The biotechnology proposals will be overseen by Vice
President Dan Quayle's Council on Competitiveness, which is
coordinating the regulatory review. The goal of the review is
to reduce the cost of regulation on business. But it is also
intended to boost President Bush's re-election chances and
deflect charges that he pays little attention to domestic
issues and that regulation has grown during his time in
office.
   As part of the review, the administration also intends to
issue a report on telecommunications regulation,
administration and Federal Communications Commission
officials say. The report would largely weave together
positions taken by the FCC, Commerce Department and Justice
Department to increase competition in telecommunications. But
the administration hopes that having the imprimatur of the
White House will improve the chances that the changes will
occur.
   Among the proposals being considered are auctioning to the
highest bidder frequencies needed for new consumer products,
such as calculator-sized telephones, and reducing regulations
so that telephone companies can get into the cable television
business and cable TV operators can get into the local
telephone business. Many of these changes would require
legislation.
   In addition, the White House will review changes,
suggested by the Justice Department, to extend the reach of
federal antitrust laws to allow U.S. prosecutors to go after
foreign cartels that lock out U.S. exports. Currently,
antitrust enforcers have to prove harm to consumers. Under
the new policy, it would be enough to show harm to exporters,
regardless of whether consumers were harmed, says an
administration official.