Gun Control and Sheep for the Slaughter
   ----
   By Mark D. McLean
The first recorded examples of weapons control are found
in the Old Testament. The Judge Deborah remarks in her
victory song, "Neither shield nor spear was seen among forty
thousand in Israel" (Judges 5:8). 1 Samuel 13:19-22 records
that the Philistines would not allow the Israelites to have
any blacksmiths "lest the Hebrews make a sword or spear" (1
Samuel 13:19). As a result, on the day of the Israelites'
battle with the Philistines, none of the 600 men with Saul
and his son Jonathan were armed with swords or spears. Only
Saul and Jonathan had weapons.
   The purpose of weapons control has not changed over the
centuries. Its goal is to control any segment of the governed
population seen as dangerous to the "public safety."
Governments have always found it easier to impose the "will
of the people" upon the people if the people are unarmed. The
question that needs to be faced with as little emotional
baggage as possible is "who in the U.S. constitutes the
population we need to control with gun-control laws?"
   In spite of the great psychological and physical harm done
to individuals and our society as a whole by violent
criminals, no matter what weapon they use, violent criminals
still represent a small percentage of our total population.
Approximately 3% of the American population committed violent
crimes in 1990. The issue is how best to control that violent
minority. Given our limited resources of both law enforcement
personnel and finances, how can we best use them to lessen
the criminal abuse of weapons?
   Well-crafted legislation allowing qualified private
American citizens to carry a concealed weapon for the defense
of their own lives or the lives of others in a legitimate act
of law enforcement would have made Hennard's attack unlikely;
at the very least, it would have made it impossible for him
to kill so many people.
   It is no coincidence that the same criteria that make one
ineligible to own any firearm are those that make one
ineligible to vote-conviction on a felony charge,
certification as mentally incompetent, or being an alien. By
what criteria have congressional supporters of more
restrictive gun legislation judged their constituents
incompetent to own and bear firearms safely and legally in
defense of themselves and their communities from the violent
criminal minority?
   The homicide rate in Florida fell after the permit to
carry laws were eased. The same is true of a similar easing
of carry laws adopted in Oregon in 1989.
   Ask yourself: Do I believe myself mentally and morally
competent to own and bear arms, including a concealed
handgun, safely and legally in accordance with all local,
state and federal regulations? Then contact your elected
officials and ask them if they believe they and their
constituents are mentally and morally competent to do the
same.
   If they don't have faith in their own mental and moral
competence, do you want them to be your representatives in
government? Ask those who don't believe you and their other
constituents are competent to own and bear arms what you have
done to warrant such a verdict against your ability to
function as a competent citizen. Where does this radical lack
of faith in the character of the American public come from?
   How easy will it be for the next madman to find a group of
people to slaughter with nearly 100% assurance that none of
them will be able to resist his onslaught? That will depend
on the type of gun control legislation we embrace between now
and then.
   ---
   Mr. McLean, an associate professor of biblical studies and
philosophy at Evangel College, is a volunteer police chaplain
in Springfield, Mo. He carries no weapon.