Going Home Is Hard to Do
   ----
   By Adam Garfinkle
To make matters worse, the U.S. government really has no
idea how to close foreign bases, and for good reason: lack of
experience. It knows how to open bases, but closing them is
not just the same process run backwards. It is hellishly
complicated, politically sensitive and expensive. Not
surprisingly, therefore, no one in the Pentagon wanted to
take charge of doing it.
   Last summer, after the closings announcement, the Office
of the Secretary of Defense searched the organizational chart
of the world's largest office building and hit upon a
sprawling bureaucracy-within-the-bureaucracy, called Planning
and Logistics (PL), as the logical place to site the
process, for the simple reason that PL is charged with
closing domestic bases. PL disagreed, and tried to pass
responsibility to a tiny four-man office called Foreign
Military Rights Affairs (FMRA)the lawyers charged with
writing the actual legal documents that U.S. negotiators
carry with them to Manila, Lisbon, Ankara and elsewhere. But
the job was too big for FMRA and, in the end, PL got stuck
with the task. It continues to resist, however, in that
curious way that only large bureaucracies can: collective but
simultaneously anonymous insubordination.
   Thus, no standard procedure or coherent staff yet exists
to consider the financial, logistical, political and
strategic elements of closing bases. The few congressional
staff inquiries that have gone over to the Pentagon about
this problem -- mainly Congressmen hoping that the closing of
a facility abroad might offer an opportunity for the opening
of a pork barrel facility in their districts -- have either
not been answered satisfactorily, or have not been answered
at all.
   PL was not just being coy in trying to avoid the job. It
knows what an awesome and thankless burden it is, as a
concrete illustration or two shows.
   If, as seems likely, the U.S. leaves Torrejon air force
base in Spain, how should it compensate strategically to
maintain the same military reach with respect, say, to the
Middle East? If Torrejon is abandoned, does that make
negotiations with Portugal over the Azores or with Italy and
Greece more important? It does. Won't the Portuguese, Italian
and Greek governments, knowing the increased value of their
facilities, demand more money? They will. Should we pay it?
To all three or just one or two? If one or two, which one or
two? Americans both inside and outside the government will
not easily agree on the answers to any of these questions.
And that is where political problem number one begins: One
cannot sensibly go about closing certain bases without
rethinking the uses and costs of the ones that will remain
open.
   Another bedeviling aspect of the problem is more
technical. If the U.S. leaves Torrejon, should it take the
bulk of its physical property with it, which includes fuel
lines, air traffic electronics and even street cleaners? If
it does, it could render the base unusable for Spain, hurt
NATO, and sour U.S.-Spanish relations. The U.S. obviously has
no interest in that, but there will be bureaucratic and
political pressures for the U.S. to take its property with it
when it leaves.
   The political reason for demanding that America take its
property home with it is that many enterprising Congressmen
see the relocation of overseas assets in their home states
and districts as a way to buffer the economic downside of
domestic base closings. As soon as trouble over the
Philippine bases arose, for example, some Philadelphia area
Congressmen began lobbying for reconsideration of the
decision to shut down the Philadelphia Naval Yard. The truth
is, however, that much of the equipment the U.S. owns at
Torrejon and elsewhere is obsolete, redundant because of U.S.
domestic base closings, and more expensive on balance to
bring home than to give away.
   But if the U.S. government gives the equipment to Spain,
under what circumstances should it be done? How many
Americans should remain to work the facilities until the
Spanish can take over? Should the U.S. train the Spanish? Who
should pay whom to do so and how much? Thinking
strategically, should the Pentagon press for an access accord
to Torrejon, which is not as secure a footing as a base but
is better than nothing? Or would that be counterproductive in
the context of Spanish democratic politics today? Tough
questions, every one.
   Another example. On Oct. 24 and 25, an army of German
military bureaucrats descended on Washington officialdom
making a series of demands about the adjustment of U.S.
basing rights in their country. Among their demands was that,
when the U.S. vacates bases in Germany, it pay for
environmental clean-up in accord with German law and
standards. The Government Accounting Office began some years
back to estimate how much it would cost to clean up U.S.
bases all over Europe (and elsewhere); the numbers were so
huge that the report was squelched, and was released in May
only in "sanitized" form. One Pentagon professional told me
that the real numbers are "utterly staggeringalong the lines
of another SL debacle."
   In addition, the Germans, and not only the Germans, see
the residual value of the land that bases are situated on as
being far less than the Pentagon does. Also, disagreements
over the terms of closing certain bases will affect the
status of negotiations over the bases that will remain. On
remaining bases, for example, the Germans want new
restrictions with respect to overflight corridors, training
schedules and a variety of other matters. New restrictions
and costs may make the remaining bases relatively
unattractive and excessively expensive.
   So what is to be done? Give in, or get involved in a
protracted and debilitating argument with the most important
country in Europe?
   These are the sorts of problems that the U.S. government
will have to manage for years to come. This means, among
other things, that the U.S. will need to develop new forms of
patience in dealing with its Cold War allies. Negotiations
with friends, ironically, are often more difficult that
negotiations with adversaries, if only because expectations
of agreement are high. When such expectations are repeatedly
disappointed, in the end friends become less friendly.
   ---
   Mr. Garfinkle, political studies coordinator at the
Foreign Policy Research Institute in Philadelphia, is working
on a book dealing with U.S. foreign military bases after the
Cold War.