Don't Expect to See
   This Record Holder
   In the Winter Games
   ---
   Tom Sobal Dominates Races,
   So Why Isn't He Famous?
   Ask His Buddy Maynard
   ----
   By Marj Charlier
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
No, what really frosts Mr. Sobal is that the race wasn't
long enough.
   This was his chance, you see, to break three hours in the
year's only snowshoe marathon. And while he finished at 2
hours, 59 minutes, he felt from his pace that the course was
not a legitimate 26.2 miles. Angry that his time is thus
"bogus," he throws his snowshoes in the back seat of a
friend's car and threatens to quit the sport altogether. "If
anyone wants to buy these, get a name and phone number," he
says. Then he trudges off to thaw his beard and frost-nipped
face in a hot tub.
   Oh, by the way, Mr. Sobal won the race.
   This skinny 34-year-old may be the best -- and
hardest-working-athlete you have never heard of. He wins a
lot, but in esoteric winter events that rarely rise above the
agate type in the sports pages. Last February, for example,
he won the 100-mile Iditashoe snowshoe race in Alaska,
cutting the course record by three hours, to under 24 hours.
He holds the records for all three of Colorado's major burro
races -- marathon-length affairs in which man-burro twosomes
scamper over rocky mountain passes. He also holds the record
for the annual Doc Holliday 35-mile high-altitude run, as
well as dozens of other foot and snowshoe races in the
Western mountains.
   But even with these credentials, Mr. Sobal is forced to
run on the cheap. The only sponsor he could scare up for the
big snowshoe race was a running club in his hometown of
Leadville, Colo. It gave him $150 to help pay for a red-eye
flight to Minneapolis. From there he had to hitch a ride to
Duluth. He has tried attracting snowshoe manufacturers and
smallish sports-accessories companies, but with little luck.
"Corporations want someone who is almost as big a brand name
as the product they're marketing," says Jim Andrews,
editorial director of IEG Sponsorship Report, a publication
of International Events Group in Chicago. Snowshoers don't
fill the bill.
   Besides, Mr. Sobal doesn't exactly exude the matinee-idol
image of a Carl Lewis or a Joe Montana. At 6-foot-3-inches
and 165 pounds, he is rail thin. A skinny 18-inch braid
snakes down the middle of his back, and his full beard turns
into a hairy icicle in snowshoe races. He is also shy.
   Mr. Sobal isn't complaining, mind you. He chooses his
sports because they are local ones, not because they promise
endorsements. "I think if you live in the mountains, you
should do mountain sports," he says.
   Mr. Sobal actually began his running career on flat land,
in Gary, Ind. After an embarrassing performance on the
highschool cross-country team, he and a friend decided to run
every day over the summer to improve. They did, securing top
spots on the team the next fall. But the rebellious teen-ager
balked at the coach's orders and quit.
   After college, he drifted into seasonal jobs, like cooking
for a Colorado dude ranch, while continuing to run. He soon
discovered he ran better at high altitudes than at sea level
and went searching for a mountain town where he could live
and train for more serious competition. One day in 1987, he
rode his mountain bike into two-mile-high Leadville
(population 2,067), where the Climax Molybdenum mine had just
shut down. Rent was cheap, the people friendly, and he
stayed.
   In the winter, Mr. Sobal runs six- to 13-mile snowshoe
loops daily and swims three or four miles a week in the local
public pool. In the summer, he runs at least 80 miles a week,
about half of that with his racing partner Maynard, a burro
owned by a Leadville dentist. Mr. Sobal bicycles to his
15-hour-a-week jobs -- a local snowshoe factory in the winter
and a bike shop in the summer. He says he trains so much he
doesn't have the time or energy for a full-time job.
   All this makes Mr. Sobal a rare physical specimen. He has
a resting heart rate around 50, about the same as a
world-class athlete's, and he has suffered few injuries. He
says he once ran a mile in four minutes and 18 seconds, and
while that won't frighten any world-class milers, it's still
impressive. It is even more impressive considering he did it
at 8,000 feet and then, 10 minutes later, ran another mile in
four minutes and 25 seconds.
   r. Sobal thinks there are plenty of athletes who could
compete with him in his sports if they wanted to. But not
many do. He organizes snowshoe races in Leadville, but the
turnout is always disappointing. About 40 showed up for a
20-mile race in January. (He won.) "I asked my friends what I
was doing wrong in organizing the thing," he says. "They tell
me the sport is just too hard."
   So few are people with his kind of rarefied competitive
fever that when Mr. Sobal found one, he married her. He and
his wife, Melissa Lee, met while competing in an
ultramarathon (a run of more than 26.2 miles). She is also
the only woman ever to complete the 100-mile Iditashoe. But
even the hardy Ms. Lee doesn't find it easy to live with a
man who believes that every household should have only one
dish per person (she's gotten him up to seven, total) and who
keeps the thermostat at a bone-chilling 45 degrees Fahrenheit
in the winter. And "that's a compromise," says the
Florida-born Ms. Lee. "I can lie in bed at night and see my
breath."
   But the sacrifices are worth it for all the prize money,
right? Well . . . Over the past 18 years, Mr. Sobal says, the
miles he has run have outnumbered the dollars he has earned.
Competing in 15 events covering 326 miles last year -- and
winning 10 of them -- Mr. Sobal earned only a couple of
thousand dollars. For winning the Iditashoe, he and his wife
each received three ounces of gold, worth about $1,000. By
the time they paid expenses, they had $350 left. The victory
at Beargrease earned him a gift certificate to the Ground
Round Restaurant; he gave it away because he is a vegetarian.
He splits his burro-race winnings with the animal's owner.
   Mr. Sobal and his wife live frugally, helped somewhat by
Ms. Lee's work as a massage therapist. They housesit in
exchange for cheap rent. The only shoes Mr. Sobal owns are
running shoes and snowshoes, and his clothes are layers of
inexpensive running knits.
   But his goal isn't riches, it is "improvement," he says.
He still hopes to run a legitimate snowshoe marathon in less
than three hours. Looking much further ahead, he and a friend
have a pact to run a marathon when they turn 100.
   Why does he do it? "Everyone has to have a passion in
life," he says. "To some people their passion is their jobs."
His is running.
   And to Mr. Sobal, the meager returns are fine. He looks
out his window each day at the mountain view and considers
himself lucky, because, he says, "I'm living my dream."