Study Proposes
   Major Changes
   In U.S. Auctions
   ----
   By Kevin G. Salwen and John Connor
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
But the report, which is set to come out next week, is
expected to propose a series of changes that cumulatively
could bring major changes to the market. Those
recommendations remain subject to last-minute haggling, but
they are likely to include:
   -- Creating rules that, for the first time, would regulate
how brokers can sell Treasury securities;
   -- Agreeing to a plan to codify auction rules, which until
now have been a haphazard set of piecemeal guidelines;
   -- Forcing firms to tell the government more about their
large holdings or short positions, though this area remains
in some dispute; and
   -- Studying whether the government should experiment with
selling its debt through different auction systems.
   As a result of Salomon's admission five months ago that it
committed widespread illegalities at Treasury-securities
auctions, the world's largest debt market already is a
different place. Indeed, in October, Treasury took its first
swipe at shaking up the market's old-boy network.
   Those earlier changes broke up the near-exclusive domain
of the 39 "primary dealers," the tight-knit club of top
bidders. In another move that further devalued the franchise
of the primary dealer, the government reversed a longstanding
policy that gave a narrow group of bidders advance word on
its financing needs. In addition, auction bids are now
spot-checked for accuracy, and large winning bidders now must
provide written verification that they actually made their
bids.
   But the new report will take a broader look at the market.
Some of its recommendations can be implemented
administratively by Treasury. Others must wait for Congress
to reauthorize the Government Securities Act, which expired
months ago. Still others will have to be proposed by the
agencies for future legislation.
   The report won't affect any enforcement action that the
SEC or other arms of the government might take against
Salomon or its current or former executives.
   Congress already is eager to act on the report. Yesterday,
J.J. Pickle (D., Texas), who heads the House Ways and Means
Oversight Subcommittee, announced hearings Feb. 3 on the
report's findings.
   Here is a look at some of the likely recommendations:
                                                                                                       

   AUCTIONS
                                                                                                       

   The report is expected to back taking a harder look at the
auction process, which is at the heart of the way the
Treasury sells, and dealers buy, debt. But before acting,
officials want to wait a few months, until the archaic
auction process is automated. Treasury has the authority to
make such changes by itself, without waiting for
congressional approval.
   In particular, some of the regulators doing the study
strongly back experimenting with a so-called single-price
auction, in which all accepted bidders would receive their
securities at one price, the lowest winning bid price.
   Currently, Treasury securities are sold to the highest
bidders at the prices they actually bid. Economists love the
single-price auction idea, arguing that it would allow
bidders to be more aggressive without having to worry about
being forced to buy the debt at a much higher price than
their rivals.
   The big problem, people familiar with the report say, is
that the auction process is now almost entirely manual, with
bidders literally dropping slips of paper into a box at the
New York Federal Reserve Bank. The process must be automated
before the government offers alternative systems. Regulators
are committed to having the system automated by year end, at
which time, says one person, "It's worth trying to do a whole
bunch of new things."
                                                                                                       

   LARGE POSITION REPORTING
                                                                                                       

   This one appears to be a front-runner, though the Fed and
SEC are having a lastminute squabble over the rule, which
would force big investors to tell the government when they
have a large long or short position in a certain bond or note
issue.
   Stephen Thieke, president of J.P. Morgan Securities Inc.,
and a former senior official at the New York Fed, calls
large-position reporting "one of the more likely changes to
be implemented."
   The idea surfaced in the House Telecommunications and
Finance Subcommittee in the wake of the Salomon scandal as
the more burdensome "large trade reporting," which would have
forced firms to tell the government about each large purchase
or sale. It was modeled on securities laws that allow the SEC
to force investors to tell it when they make a large stock
trade.
   Bond dealers objected that large-trade reporting would be
too costly, and now are backing large position reporting as
the lesser evil.
   In late October, Assistant Treasury Secretary Jerome
Powell said the department was "actively examining" the
issue. New York Fed Executive Vice President Peter Sternlight
backed such reporting even before the Salomon problem broke,
saying in a memo last summer that, "a status quo approach
risks the development of a tainted market." The SEC also
strongly backs the plan. But for all that, Fed officials
think it is an unnecessary burden to dealers and will provide
the government with information it already can get through
other means.
   The information probably would be collected by federal
regulators and kept on file in case of a problem with an
auction or a security. For example, regulators investigating
the Salomon scandal are looking at a $6 billion position that
the firm contends money manager Steinhardt Partners L.P.
held. With large position reporting, regulators would have
been able to uncover Steinhardt's holding without asking the
firm for information.
   One big problem exists, though. Large foreign investors,
who are massive buyers of Treasury debt, are skittish about
providing information to the U.S. government and possibly
other investors. Regulators would have to assure foreigners
that the data wouldn't be disclosed to the public.
   It isn't clear whether the Treasury has the authority to
force disclosure of large positions, or would need to be
given that power by Congress.
                                                                                                       

   SALES PRACTICE RULES
                                                                                                       

   Treasury securities currently are resold to the public
with virtually no regulation by a federal authority. That's
the result of an odd piece of 1986 legislation, the
Government Securities Act. Back then, when lawmakers were
putting together the first set of parameters to regulate the
Treasury-bond market, they succumbed to outside pressure and
"carved out" sales practices.
   Five years of financial scandals later, introducing sales
practice rules still requires congressional action, but it is
seen now as a done deal. The National Association of
Securities Dealers, which oversees the over-the-counter stock
market, will be given primary oversight authority. The only
remaining question is who will keep tabs on the NASD.
   A bill pending in the Senate would give the SEC oversight
authority, but allow Treasury to veto any action that the
department thought could damage the market. The SEC and Fed
want to block giving Treasury veto power. Treasury and the
SEC may agree in the study to disagree, leaving the issue to
Congress. But either way, the industry almost certainly will
get its first sales practice rules.
                                                                                                       

   35% RULE
                                                                                                       

   There was much discussion of this limit in the wake of the
Salomon admission. But that concern seems to have dissipated,
and the study probably won't address the issue at all.
   The basic problem is that a well-heeled firm such as
Salomon and two of its customers can legally corner the
market for a bond issue simply by bidding the same price for
35% apiece, currently the limit for what any single entity
can bid in an auction.
   Following the squeeze in the two-year May note auction
last year, in which Salomon and its customers bought 87% of
the securities auctioned by the Treasury, there was talk that
the limit should be cut to 25%. That apparently has gone by
the board, though Treasury could still make such a move
unilaterally through its administrative rule-making
authority.
                                                                                                       

   AVOIDING SQUEEZES
                                                                                                       

   The biggest worry for any market player trying to corner
the market is that after the player scoops up the lion's
share of the bonds, the government will bust the squeeze by
selling more. Through strict supply and demand, the investors
would then be stuck holding securities that are worth less.
   Squeezes aren't uncommon in the government-securities
market, because it is legal to bid for large chunks (see 35%
rule, above). So the government is considering threatening to
issue more securities in an effort to block squeezes. While a
threat, implied or explicit, would probably be enough to
deter firms from trying to corner the market, the report
isn't likely to take a firm stand here.
   Still, there is considerable discussion on how to avoid
squeezes in the future and the administration may offer up a
few ideas on the subject.
                                                                                                       

   CODIFIED RULES
                                                                                                       

   Current rules in the auction process have a Biblical
quality to them, being "handed down from generation to
generation," says one person involved in the report. Now it's
time to put the gospel into written form and centralize it in
one spot.
   The Treasury has said that it plans to put out those rules
in a filing, and publish it in the Federal Register for
public comment.
   ---
   David Wessel contributed to this article.
   ---
                   New Rules; Old Market
                                                                                                       

   A report to be released next week by the Treasury
Department, Federal Reserve Board and SEC is expected to
propose:
                                                                                                       

   -- Setting sales practice rules for brokers of Treasury
securities.
                                                                                                       

   -- Codifying auction rules for brokers of Treasury
securities.
                                                                                                       

   -- Requiring investors to disclose large positions to the
government.
                                                                                                       

   -- Studying how the government could change the way it
auctions debt.
                                                                                                       

   -- Not changing the 35% limit for which each dealer or
customer can bid in a single auction.