Petro-Canada Could Report '92 Profit
   Despite Big Losses, Write-Downs in '91
   ----
   By Suzanne McGee
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The company announced last week that it plans to take a
369 million Canadian dollar (US$314.4 million) charge against
its fourth-quarter earnings to reflect a write-down in book
value of some of its refining and marketing assets. It
expects to report 1991 results Feb. 20. Petro-Canada also
said it will freeze the wages of all salaried employees,
including top executives, at 1991 levels this year.
   Petro-Canada has been hardest hit of Canada's three major
oil-refining concerns, all of which are suffering from a 10%
decline in demand for refined crude products and a surplus of
refining capacity. For the first nine months of 1991, it
reported a net loss of C$234 million, of which C$106 million
was attributable to the "downstream" operations.
   "We don't see all that lost demand coming back quickly,"
said Mr. Twiss, adding that Petro-Canada would be "happy" to
see a 1% growth in demand for refined crude products this
year.
   Even if business conditions continue to be weak, Mr. Twiss
said, Petro-Canada expects to return to financial health by
1993 or 1994.
   "The measures that we've announced will allow us to
operate at a reasonable level of profit, even without
assuming an improvement in the economy," he said. After years
of having its returns on capital in the refining operations
languish below industry averages of about 5%, Mr. Twiss said,
the cost-cutting measures should allow Petro-Canada to reach
its goal of an 8% to 10% return on capital within two or
three years. In 1991, he said, the company had a negative
return on capital employed.
   Industry analysts expect Petro-Canada's drastic measures
to cut its retail outlets and slash refining capacity to be
followed by similar moves at the country's largest refiner,
Imperial Oil Ltd., 70%-owned by Exxon Corp.
   Imperial, which last week reported its first-ever annual
loss, is expected to announce the closure of two of its
smaller refineries, in Vancouver, British Columbia, and
Dartmouth, Nova Scotia. The company could also cut a number
of additional jobs throughout the organization, analysts
said.
   A spokesman for Imperial would say only that an
announcement will be made "within weeks" on the measures it
will take to deal with the overcapacity in Canadian crude-oil
refining.
   Petro-Canada's Mr. Twiss said he hopes that a tightening
of refining capacity will produce more realistic prices at
the gasoline pump. "It's time to return to price conditions
that reflect the heavy costs associated with the industry,"
he said. "Full-scale price wars hurt us all."
   Separately, Standard  Poor's said it downgraded the
long-term debt of Petro-Canada to triple B-minus from
triple-B-plus and cut its rating of the company's commercial
paper to A-3 from A-2. Mr. Twiss said the move, which
followed a similar rating reduction by Moody's Investor
Service last week, wasn't unexpected. He said that it affects
about C$600 million of the company's C$1.6 million of
long-term debt but that Petro-Canada doesn't have any
commercial paper outstanding in the U.S.
   "This just makes the chance of a U.S. commercial-paper
program less likely," he said.