Credit Cards:
   Amex Cards
   Don't Accept
   Toronto Bistro
   ----
   By Suzanne McGee
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
"Why should we keep turning the other cheek?" asked Ivan
Shaffer, a spokesman for American Express Canada, who said
the company has received complaints from card members about
the display cards.
   The Toronto confrontation follows several months of
confrontations between the charge-card concern and businesses
that accept the card. Last month saw the beginning of a more
hard-line stance by American Express, when it cut off Laura
Ashley Holdings PLC, after the British retailer encouraged
customers to use other credit cards.
   In the case of La Bodega, the table cards point out that
the restaurant pays, including federal and provincial sales
taxes, 4.65% to American Express, 1.95% to Visa, 1.66% to
Mastercard and 3.73% to enRoute (a travel and entertainment
card marketed by Air Canada) when customers charge their
meals. "Which card would you prefer to use?" it asks.
   Mr. Shaffer said disclosing that information violates La
Bodega's agreement with American Express, and is an attempt
to prevent card members from using their cards."In our
contract, service establishments agree to welcome card
members," he said.
   But it may be that American Express is attempting to stop
any larger revolt, such as the one that took place in Boston
over the summer. In that case, a large group of Boston
restaurateurs protesting the fees threatened to drop the card
because of the rates, a move which resulted in the
introduction of lower charges for establishments with high
volume that used an electronic payment method. The cut-off of
La Bodega is the first of its kind in Canada, Mr. Shaffer
said.
   Tomorrow, the Toronto Culinary Purchasers' Society, a
group formed for restaurateurs to negotiate better prices
from their suppliers, will meet to discuss ways in which
members can support Mr. Wharton. Fabian Siebert, president of
the organization and owner of Marcel Bistro, a Toronto
restaurant, says that one of the measures under discussion at
the meeting will be a boycott of American Express cards by
association members.
   Mr. Siebert says the rate cuts that followed last year's
revolt by Boston restaurateurs have been of little benefit to
small and medium-sized establishments, those whose patrons
charge less than C$1 million (US$869,300) annually on
American Express. He also said the group must take a stand on
behalf of Mr. Wharton.
   "If we let {American Express} get away with this extreme
action, it will be allowing them to dictate whatever they
want to restaurants," Mr. Siebert said. He added, however,
that "We want to avoid a war with American Express, because
they're a business partner and because we wouldn't win it
anyway."
   Mr. Wharton contends his table cards were just intended to
inform his patrons of their options, not to coerce them into
choosing another card. He says American Express's response is
"heavy-handed" and he might take legal action for breach of
contract.
   "It's become very costly for us to take this card,
especially in a recession, and we felt our customers should
be aware of this," said Mr. Wharton, who has been accepting
American Express since he opened his restaurant 17 years ago.
   At least one other Toronto eatery is handing out the same
information on credit card rates to customers in the folders
that contain their bills. The owner, who said he doesn't want
to be identified for fear American Express might cut off his
establishment as well, said that he would be reluctant to
support a boycott but that he's equally reluctant to continue
paying heavy fees to American Express.
   Some analysts express understanding for American Express's
actions. "I'm not surprised they're playing hardball. It's
exactly what they have to do," said David Robertson,
president of The Nilson Report, a newsletter for the credit
card industry. "They can't let their cardholders think the
card is useless and have them put it away in a drawer. That's
the worst thing they can do."
   The issue goes to the heart of the company's
profitability, observers say. Mr. Shaffer, who says American
Express Canada has amicable relations with all but a handful
of its service establishments, said the company couldn't
lower its rates even if it wanted to.
   "We earn our money from the discount fees charged to
restaurants and retailers," he said. "Bank cards earn their
money by charging interest rates of 20% on unpaid balances."
American Express card members are required to pay off their
full balances monthly and pay no interest fees.
   Mr. Shaffer also said American Express offers retailers
and other service establishments a "value-added service"
through their marketing campaigns, such as a plan to
encourage dining out launched in Canada in September.
   But many restaurateurs aren't swayed by such arguments.
"I'd rather see the rates cut, and use my own money to do my
own promotion, and I've told them that," Mr. Wharton said.
   Donald Auriemma of Auriemma Consulting Group, Garden City,
N.Y., said that while it is too early to say how the
recurring problem of merchants' discontent with rates will be
resolved, he says part of the solution will lie in American
Express's marketing.
   "They'll have to turn up the marketing burners and the
sales burners to prove they're able to deliver premium
service for the premium price they're demanding," he said.