China Has Technology to Give Bombers
   Long Flight Range, Worrying Neighbors
   ----
   By Nayan Chanda
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Citing intelligence reports, administration officials said
the Chinese recently tested a prototype refueling technology.
   Two years ago, the Bush administration stopped the sale of
an American aviation company, Mamco Manufacturing Inc., to
China National Aero-Technology Import  Export Corp. for fear
it would give China access to in-flight refueling technology.
Earlier, a proposed sale of aerial refueling technology to
the Chinese by a British company was halted by the
Coordinating Committee on Export Controls, or Cocom, which
monitors Western technology sales to communist countries.
   The U.S. has been investigating alleged Israeli transfers
of sensitive U.S. military technology to third countries.
That isn't the case here because Washington had refused to
give in-flight refueling know-how to Israel on the grounds
that it would give it unnecessary offensive capability. But
Israel developed the technology with unspecified foreign
assistance and is known to have supplied it to South Africa.
   In January 1974, China captured the Paracel islands in the
South China Sea from the U.S.-backed South Vietnamese army.
Fourteen years later, the Chinese navy forcefully evicted the
communist Vietnamese from Fiery Cross island, north of the
main Spratly chain.
   But military analysts say a lack of air support -- the
Spratly chain is 620 miles from China's nearest air base in
Hainan -- has restricted Chinese activity in the area. The
country's longest-range bomber could barely make a return
trip from the Spratlys.
   But that handicap will end soon, when a fleet of
Chinese-built A-5M Fantan and F-82 twin-engine
fighter-bombers fitted with in-flight refueling ducts are
introduced into service. The U.S. officials said Chinese B-6
Badger bombers are being converted to aerial tankers, giving
China air superiority in any future operation against islands
in the Spratlys occupied by Vietnam, the Philippines or
Malaysia.
   Last month, China stunned its neighbors by promulgating a
law that all but turns the South China Sea into a Chinese
lake. The law proclaims Diaoyutai -- also known as Senkaku,
off the northeast coast of Taiwan -- and the Paracels and
Spratlys to be Chinese territory, and says China has "the
right to adopt all necessary measures to prevent . . . the
harmful passage of vessels through its territorial waters."
The law appears to have reversed China's stance that the
question of sovereignty should be shelved in order to jointly
develop the area's economic potential. Japan, which controls
Senkaku, and Vietnam, which still holds parts of the
Spratlys, protested, as did other Southeast Asian countries.
   Meanwhile, China is strengthening its naval and air
capacity in the South China Sea islands. To bring its air
power closer, China has built a runway and related facilities
on Woody Island in the Paracels. "Clearly, the Chinese are
developing the place as a staging area for operation in the
Spratlys," a U.S. official said.
   U.S. officials said no drilling has yet been done, but the
Chinese seem to believe the seabed contains oil. Because
estimates of China's oil reserves suggest the country will
become a net oil importer in the next century, Beijing is
placing importance on developing the Tarim Basin in Xinjiang
province and the South China Sea.