Tandy to Open 160,000-Square-Foot
   Consumer Electronics Store in Oregon
   ----
   By Hal Lancaster
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
With the company's flagship Radio Shack stores suffering
from sluggish sales, Tandy has been experimenting with a
number of new retail formats, including VideoConcepts, McDuff
and the Edge in Electronics, all mall-based stores; McDuff
Electronics  Appliance SuperCenters and Computer City, a
computer superstore concept launched last year.
   But the Oregon store, which has been code-named Project
Thunder and will carry name-brand personal computers,
consumer electronics and home appliances, is considerably
larger than any of Tandy's current retail outlets. The
Computer City superstores are the company's largest opened to
date, averaging about 25,000 square feet each. By comparison,
the average warehouse club is about 100,000 square feet,
although some operators have been experimenting with formats
as large as 200,000 square feet.
   The Tandy spokesman wouldn't comment on what the store
will be named, although he said it would be a new name. He
also wouldn't confirm that the company is already planning a
second megastore.
   Analysts expressed surprise that Tandy is entering such
risky, uncharted waters. Seymour Merrin, a computer retailing
consultant, called it an "enormously risky venture" because
of its size, the size of the market and because Tandy has
never been the low-price retailer. "To draw enough people to
pay for that kind of space, you have to have very low
prices," he said. "I'd be scared to death."
   Dennis Telzrow, a securities analyst with the
Principal/Eppler Guerin  Turner in Dallas, called it a
"tough business with narrow margins." But, he said, Tandy has
recognized that it needs to experiment with new formats
because "the Radio Shack format has been stagnant." Even if
the new megastore flopped, he added, Tandy wouldn't be
materially hurt because of its size.
   Mr. Telzrow speculated that Tandy may have chosen a
smaller market because there would be fewer competitors and
it could gain a dominant market share. "With Computer City,
the company said it was important to be first or second in a
city because there are only going to be a few of these," he
said.