Credit Cards:
   American Express Cuts Optima Rates For Prompt Payers
   ----
   By Peter Pae
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
In "repositioning" the Optima card, American Express said
it is instituting a rate structure that would be tied to the
spending and bill-paying habits of its cardholders. An Optima
cardholder, for example, who has a one-year history of paying
credit-card installments on time and who has spent more than
a $1,000 during that period, would pay a 12.5% interest rate.
The 14.75% rate applies to new members and existing
cardholders who meet the credit-history criterion but not the
spending requirement. The industry average is about 18.8%.
   The rate incentives are even more important for Optima
cardholders, because 95% of them use the card as a short-term
loan. For other credit cards, only about 50% don't pay off
the full balance each month.
   "It's going to stem its delinquency problems and help in
retaining customers," said Robert McKinley, president of
industry research firm RAM Research Corp. "It's a positive
step for American Express." The Optima credit card is issued
only as a companion card to the American Express "green" or
"gold" charge cards, which have been hurt by increased
competition from bank credit cards.
   While a number of big banks increasingly have turned to
lowering rates as a way to stem defections of its best
customers, American Express would become the first major
issuer to proactively reward existing customers for card
spending and paying bills on time.
   "It's a novel, no-nonsense approach," said David
Robertson, president of the Nilson Report, a Santa Monica,
Calif., newsletter for the industry. "It's a tip-off that the
industry will be moving to it."
   Indeed, Citicorp, the largest credit-card issuer in the
U.S., said that it plans to begin a test of a "Gold Choice"
card with a similiar method for rewarding prompt payments
this month. A Citicorp spokesman said the card would be
offered to customers at 15.9% but rise to 19.9% if the
cardholder misses a payment. The rate would return to 15.9%
if the cardholder pays the bill on time for a year.
   The new rate structure for Optima is part of American
Express's efforts to return the credit-card business to
profitability and fend off competitors encroaching on its
market share. Last fall, American Express wrote off $265
million against earnings as a result of Optima's troubles
with delinquencies, which rose to a rate of 10%, double the
industry average.
   American Express has since taken a number of steps,
including the dismissal of several Optima executives and
scrapping of its plans to issue the card independent of the
   "green" charge card. In the latest announcement, Optima's
new president indicated that the company was tightening
credit requirements for new card members and restricting cash
advances based on the cardholders credit history with
American Express. The company is also restructuring its
operations in Jacksonville, Fla., to concentrate more on
recognizing potential delinquencies.
   But the cornerstone of the latest revamping is the new
rate structure, said Frank Skillern, the new head of Optima.
"The beauty of this American Express strategy is that as
more people qualify for the lowest rate, the more profitable
our business will become," he said.
   ---
   Rating Customers
                                                                                                       

   American Express's Optima card interest rate structure
                                                                                                       

   -- 12.5%: For customers who have had the card at least one
year, made no delinguent payments in the last year and spend
at least $1,000 on the card during the year.
                                                                                                       

   -- 14.75%: For new and existing cardholders who have been
in good standing for one year either on an Optima or an
American Express charge card account.
                                                                                                       

   -- 18.75%: Accounts that have had one or more late
payments during the past 12 months.