LEISURE  ARTS -- Bookshelf:
   Are the Japanese Burrowing From Without?
   ----
   By Jim Powell
Despite this embarrassment, Mr. Prestowitz raised
protectionist money and launched the Economic Strategy
Institute. It helped fund new broadsides, including Robert L.
Kearns's recent "Zaibatsu America: How Japanese Firms Are
Colonizing Vital U.S. Industries" (Macmillan/ Free Press, 256
pages, $22.95), which warns about the supposed menace of
Japanese investment and argues in favor of zaibatsu-style
protectionist cartels to maintain American competitiveness.
   It is Mr. Kearns's misfortune to have his book published
more than a year after the Japanese began pulling their money
out of the U.S. During 1991, Japanese acquisitions of U.S.
companies plunged 68%, mostly because our real interest rates
are among the lowest in the world. Investors are seeking
higher returns elsewhere. Moreover, the 40% plunge in the
Japanese stock market, trouble in the Japanese property
market and the declining fortunes of Japanese banks have made
financing acquisitions more difficult.
   Far from being a threat, foreign investment has been a
tremendous boon to the U.S. Properties aren't being lost,
stolen or given away -- they're purchased. This means
foreigners bring capital here. The more capital, the more
jobs, and the higher those jobs pay. During the heyday of
foreign investment in the late 1980s, jobs were being created
fastest in the upper end of the wage scale. Foreign
investment has always involved valuable know-how as well as
capital.
   There's nothing novel about any of this. For thousands of
years, people have prospered to the degree they could
cultivate contact with the outside world. Civilization
developed along trade routes. In ancient Athens, most
businesses were owned and operated by foreigners. Byzantium
prospered largely because its markets were open to everyone
-- Jews, Russians, Tartars, Venetians, Arabs, English. In the
17th century, the Netherlands welcomed immigrants and foreign
capital, and its prosperity was the envy of Europe. By the
next century, Dutch investors provided an estimated quarter
of the capital needed to finance the Industrial Revolution.
   The British and Dutch subsequently helped finance economic
development in North America, which was further energized by
the arrival of tens of millions of immigrants. Although the
U.S. had many high tariff rates in 1900, some 60% of imports
came in duty-free, and there weren't any quantitative import
restrictions. Japan boomed by privatizing government
enterprises, importing foreign know-how and maintaining
average tariffs around 5% for 40 years.
   Mr. Kearns claims that Japan refutes all this experience
and supports the theory that a nation can prosper by pursuing
protectionist cartels. In fact, Japan's experience is
consistent with what we've observed around the world. The
most successful Japanese industries -- consumer electronics,
motorcycles and automobiles -- have been the least protected,
least subsidized and most intensely competitive, while the
most heavily protected and subsidized industries have
performed the worst.
   More Japanese government benefits have gone to agriculture
than any other sector, and it's painfully backward. Japanese
food prices are often several times higher than world levels.
National, prefectural and city governments have done much to
protect small business. The most conspicuous result is the
backward distribution sector. Subsidies for Japanese coal
mines didn't produce world-class competitors. The subsidized
Japan National Railway, now being privatized, was long among
the most notoriously overstaffed in the non-communist world.
The government provided enormous benefits for the
shipbuilding industry, yet it declined for years. The
Ministry of International Trade and Industry showered six
aluminum producers with special breaks, but the run-up of oil
prices in the 1970s turned this policy into a source of
horrendous losses.
   Industrial policy for petrochemicals backfired similarly.
The Japanese government subsidized steel, contributing to a
costly glut in the 1980s. Heavy regulation of Japanese
financial markets brought cartels, sky-high commissions and
corruption, but didn't prevent a stock market crash.
   "Zaibaitsu America" is just another clump of the
xenophobic mud that Republicans and Democrats alike are
heaving during this year's political campaigns. Mr. Powell
writes on international business and economic policy.
   ---
   Correction
                                                                                                       

   A Feb. 24 review of Robert L. Kearns's "Zaibatsu America"
incorrectly stated that the Economic Strategy Institute had
"helped fund" the book. In fact, while Mr. Kearns was a
fellow of the institute during the final stages of the book's
preparation, the institute did not help fund "Zaibatsu
America."
   (WSJ March 9, 1992)
   920224-0161