Technology  Health:
   Makers of Breast Implants Are Pressed
   On Whether They Disclosed Health Risks
   ----
   By Bruce Ingersoll
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
In a letter to Dow Corning, the groups sought to
establish, among other things, when executives became aware
of potential adverse effects of silicone implants.
   The company, a joint venture of Dow Chemical Co. and
Corning Inc., has been battered lately by news stories about
internal memos and other documents indicating that between
1975 and 1985 the company put off safety studies and failed
to warn surgeons and women of apparent health risks. The San
Francisco Examiner was the first to report the contents of
sealed documents produced in a product-liability case against
Dow Corning in San Francisco.
   The letter was also sent to Bioplasty Inc., St. Paul,
Minn., and to Mentor Corp., and McGhan Medical Corp., both of
Santa Barbara, Calif.
   At the same time, the Bush administration came under
growing political pressure to expedite a government decision
on whether silicone implants should remain on the market. On
Jan. 6, Food and Drug Administration Commissioner David
Kessler called for a moratorium on the use of silicone
implants, pending a review of new information, including
documents from the San Francisco case and from one pending in
Michigan.
   In a letter yesterday to Health and Human Services
Secretary Louis Sullivan, Reps. Robert Torricelli (D., N.J.)
and Don Sundquist (R., Tenn.) urged the National Institutes
of Health to assemble a blue-ribbon panel to rule on implant
safety. It would supplant an FDA advisory panel that Dr.
Kessler plans to convene in mid-February.
   The lawmakers argued that the FDA panel lacks the
expertise to evaluate case reports from rheumatologists that
indicate a possible link between silicone gel and
immune-system disorders in women.
   They also criticized the FDA for not releasing the new
evidence cited by Dr. Kessler. "Women need this new
information, and they need it now," said Rep. Torricelli.
   Meanwhile, FDA officials, fed up with such criticism,
blamed the delay on Dow Corning. They said the company has so
far refused to let the agency make public its confidential
pre-marketing application and to waive secrecy agreements in
the San Francisco and Michigan cases.
   At the FDA's behest, the Justice Department has been
sounding out Dan Bolton, the attorney who won a $7.3 million
judgment against Dow Corning for a woman with ruptured
implants in the San Francisco case, about legal strategies to
obtain the release of sealed corporate documents.
   In Midland, Mich., Dow Corning spokeswoman Barbara
Carmichael complained about the FDA's "lack of specificity"
in requesting the release of documents.
   "The FDA isn't in any predicament," she said. "All they
have to do is tell us what documents they want." But she
added that the company doesn't plan to release any documents
"that don't deal with science."