Preferred Clients:
   With Big Loans Slow,
   Major Banks Romance
   Local Midsized Firms
   ---
   Lenders Like the Margins,
   Extended Relationships
   And Low Rates of Default
   ---
   Credit Standards Stay Strict
   ----
   By Steven Lipin
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
"We were pleasantly surprised. The competition was active,
very aggressive," says the 64-year-old chairman, who chose
Chase Manhattan Bank, Brown Brothers Harriman  Co. and a
longtime Hartog lender, Bank of New York Co.
   Although few companies are being courted by 12 banks, Mr.
Hartog's success does reflect a changed financial climate.
With big-ticket banking in the doldrums, major banks are
trying harder to woo small and midsized local businesses.
   Once the backwater of corporate banking, the middle market
is one of the few high-margin lending businesses left, not
having been taken over by securities firms that arrange
commercial paper or other offerings. Midsized companies
traditionally pay relatively high interest rates, and not
many default.
   Moreover, the middle market is one of the last bastions of
relationship banking, the tradition of long-lasting, mutually
beneficial ties between a corporate borrower and its lenders.
In re-emphasizing relationships, banks have come a long way
from the 1980s, when they financed raids against clients and
many saw old ties as old hat.
   But banks aren't chasing after middle-market companies the
way they used to chase leveraged buy-outs and commercial real
estate loans. While increasingly lending to the middle
market, banks also are raising their standards in hopes of
weeding out shaky borrowers. "Banks are scared to make bad
loans," says Steven Sklar, chief financial officer of
Biocraft Laboratories Inc., who recently arranged a loan with
a new lender for the generic-drug maker in Fair Lawn, N.J.
"But once you convince them you're a good risk, it's very
competitive."
   A similar shift toward midsized businesses occurred in the
early 1980s, after Third World lending died out; banks such
as Citicorp set up far-flung loan-production offices to
target midsized businesses all around the country, only to
later retrench after local companies shunned them. Now,
banks' renewed emphasis on customers in their own back yards
is part of a broader shift away from large corporate and
international banking. Many lenders are building up branch
networks in an attempt to become regional powerhouses rather
than global players.
   "Banks are returning to their roots," says Robert Greene,
chief credit officer at First Interstate and president of
Robert Morris Associates, a lenders' trade group. "And that
means more competition in the middle market."
   The competition is rising all across the country. Barnett
Banks Inc., of Jacksonville, Fla., recently said it hopes to
reduce its real-estate portfolio and target small-business
customers. In Chicago, First Chicago Corp. and Continental
Bank Corp. have shrunk their big-business operations and
increasingly are going after midsized businesses. In Los
Angeles, First Interstate Bancorp has made a similar shift.
   Nowhere is the competition hotter than in the New York
region, home to the country's largest pool of midsized
companies. Those targeted are the roughly 11,000 firms with
sales between $10 million and $250 million. Like Hartog
Foods, many are family-owned. The tens of thousands of
smaller firms aren't being ignored, either. "It's fertile
ground just by the sheer size alone," says Joseph Maloney, a
senior vice president at Bank of New York.
   So, the giant banks are on the march. On Feb. 11, Chemical
Banking Corp., which already has 51% of New York's middle
market, blitzed the local business community, sending out 800
officers to call on some 3,000 companies. The hawkers
included Chairman John McGillicuddy and President Walter
Shipley, who usually aren't out pounding the pavement.
   Chemical, which recently merged with Manufacturers Hanover
Corp., preceded the blitz by giving out Nestle Crunch bars
mocking the credit crunch. It also held an early-morning
meeting that was more like a pep rally than a bankers'
meeting. "We've softened up the targets with over 9,000
ounces of chocolate," Frank Lourenso, Chemical's chief of
middle-market lending, told his staff. "Now, let's hit the
beaches."
   Greenberg's Bakery is the kind of business Chemical is
winning. The cake maker is going after the wholesale-dessert
business to balance out its holiday-dominated sales, and it
wants to modernize and add capacity, says owner Seth
Greenberg. But Citicorp, his longtime bank, turned him down
for a $500,000 loan. Chemical came through.
   Chemical's New York rivals are active, too. Bank of New
York is beefing up its middle-market staff. Chase Manhattan,
which got its foot in Hartog's door through blind
solicitations, has a new direct-mail campaign. After a period
of retrenchment, National Westminster Bancorp has set tough
production quotas for officers. And in New Jersey, First
Fidelity Bancorp. sent out all its calling officers one day
in November after getting a jump on its rivals in cutting its
prime rate, the basic rate on business loans.
   Even now, however, banks are underplaying the middle
market in favor of big-ticket lending, in the view of William
Lawrence, a Pace University economist and director of
Manhattan's Small Business Development Corp. Given the
layoffs by many large employers, "small business could be the
biggest potential growth area for the banking industry," he
adds.
   With middle-market loans tied to the prime rate and the
prime rate declining more slowly than many other rates,
profit margins "haven't been pinched" despite the pickup in
competition, says Robert Burke, head of Midwest banking at
First Chicago. Banks are eager to lend to the middle market,
but also eager to maintain the profitability of the business.
In fact, the average rate charged midsized companies widened
significantly last year to nearly a full percentage point
over prime, according to Loan Pricing Corp., a New York firm
that analyzes commercial loans. Now, such loans are yielding
many banks three percentage points over their cost of funds.
"There's not much else that earns those returns," says Steven
Miller, an analyst at Loan Pricing.
   Middle-market profits are high even though the banks'
costs are high; after all, it costs more to lend 100 clients
$1 million each than to lend one client $100 million. On the
other hand, the 100 clients reduce risk by diversifying the
loan portfolio -- if the bank doesn't push into new markets
without knowing much about them.
   Right now, many bankers say, loan demand from
credit-worthy borrowers is light -- and that's partly why New
York banks are wooing each other's clients. "We are booking
business, but it's at the expense of our competitors,"
Chemical's Mr. Lourenso says. "The overwhelming majority of
our customer base is in a `How do I survive the recession?'
state of mind." Many companies have trimmed inventories and
held back on capital spending.
   In a January survey, the National Federation of
Independent Business found demand for credit at record lows.
And only 4% of the business people surveyed called financing
their main problem; in the 198082 credit crunch, that figure
topped 30%. "Banks have the money to lend. They just don't
have the customers," says William Dunkelberg, the group's
chief economist.
   For some small and midsized companies, however, finding a
new lender has become difficult. Most banks have tightened
lending standards and are demanding additional documentation.
Many also prefer to make loans for the purchase of equipment
or hard assets that can serve as collateral and generate
revenue.
   Even some borrowers understand why banks are tightening
up. James Roenitz, chairman of Landmark Group, a Plymouth,
Wis., holding company for some midsized businesses, says his
banks have raised their credit standards, but he doesn't
believe they are too conservative. In the past, he says,
"many were too damn liberal."
   However, some companies need financing desperately. Norman
Spector, chief executive of Norsal Corp., says European
American Bank pulled the plug on a $300,000 revolving credit
line. That action, he adds, could have sunk the Long Island,
N.Y., manufacturer of radar equipment, which has 25 employees
and annual sales of $2 million. Chemical came up with a
revolving credit but refused an additional short-term loan to
help meet seasonal cash-flow needs. However, Chemical let
Norsal postpone payments on the principal of the revolving
credit for three months.
   Some borrowers are miffed by banks' delays. Marco
Marchetti, owner of a distributor of foreign publications
called Speedimpex Inc., wanted to buy a property after
outgrowing a leased building in Long Island City. He needed a
$1.2 million mortgage quickly. But Citicorp, his bank for 25
years, resisted making a loan until the company's fiscal year
ended, even though its sales were up 15%. Mr. Marchetti had
already been approached by Chemical, and he called its loan
officer. Within a week, he had a mortgage there, and severed
all ties with Citicorp.
   "Citicorp thought I was bluffing," Mr. Marchetti says.
"They were shocked."
   Although he suspects Citicorp isn't much interested in
lending to midsized companies, the bank denies that. In any
case, Citicorp is one of New York's chief lenders to small
companies, those with $1 million to $10 million in sales. It
is starting an ad campaign directed at them.
   A problem much like Mr. Marchetti's faced Walter Williams,
chief financial officer of Zilog Inc., a fast-growing
semiconductor maker in California's Silicon Valley. When
Zilog wanted a $20 million credit line, "our prior bank
wasn't that aggressive." But after he sought out other banks,
he quickly had about half a dozen pursuing his business. He
gave it to First Interstate and Bank of Boston.
   In making loans, many banks are hoping for much more than
just collecting interest payments. When Weiss, Peck  Greer,
a New York investment firm, was seeking $17 million to help
finance its acquisition of a Fort Wayne, Ind., processor of
health-care claims, four banks "were aggressively going after
the business," says Peter Pfister, a partner in the New York
firm. Still, some wanted up-front fees of 2% of the loan and
rates one to 1.5 points over prime-terms associated with
highly leveraged loans, which this was not. Harris Trust 
Savings in Chicago bid aggressively at prime plus 0.25 point
with upfront fees under one point. It won the business.
   But Harris knew that the cash-management needs of the firm
being acquired ran to $1.2 billion annually. And Harris is
nudging customers to use it for a range of services.
Moreover, corporate business often leads into a customer's
personal business, such as credit cards, certificates of
deposit and money management.
   By cross-selling other businesses that don't require a lot
of capital, lending can be made more profitable "as you get
your tentacles into the company," says Diane Grossman,
banking analyst at Salomon Brothers. First Manhattan
Consulting Group, a financial-consulting firm, estimates that
lending alone earns a return on equity of about 10%, but
adding the deposits, cash management and other fees can raise
returns above 20%.
   "We don't want just the loan," Chemical's Mr. Lourenso
says. "We want the whole relationship."
   Although lending banks usually don't demand business such
as a company's checking account, most customers willingly
grant it. "There's no reason to have two banks," Mr. Spector
of Norsal says. After his firm got its loan from Chemical, he
gave Chemical his payroll account, checking account and
virtually all the company's banking business.
   Aside from convenience, medium-sized companies consider
the relationship with their banks worth more than saving a
few dollars on a fee. Margaret Johnson, chief financial
officer of Peer International Corp., a New York music
publisher, says she wouldn't play one bank against another --
a tactic common in large-scale deals -- because it might sour
the relationship, even though Chase and Chemical are vying
for her business. "For the long pull, I don't believe it's
wise," she says. "We want to form strong bonds."