Winter Olympics 1992:
   Use of Disposable Facilities for Games
   Drawing Fire From Environmentalists
   ----
   By Ken Wells
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
His radical idea is gaining credence and support among
numerous mainstream conservation groups and some sports
federations, which are in turn pushing Olympic officials to
consider the concept. In an era of increasing environmental
consciousness, many now believe that re-creating Winter
Olympic facilities every four years, at the expense of the
globe's dwindling undeveloped mountainscapes, amounts to
environmental, and often, economic folly.
   For this year's Games, French government and local
interests have spent $1.8 billion transforming 13 small
Alpine villages and their surroundings. While revitalizing
the region's infrastructure, and unquestionably providing a
short-term economic boost, the construction spree has sparked
perhaps the most heated environmental debate in French
history.
   French Olympic organizing officials say they diligently
considered environmental concerns in their planning. "We have
made some mistakes, surely," says Michel Barnier, co-chairman
of the Albertville Olympics organizing committee. "But
overall is the effort worth it? Absolutely."
   But detractors say organizers gave lip service to the
environment while plowing ahead with mega-projects that have
not merely disfigured the landscape but in some cases caused
long-term damage. The Rhone Alps Federation for the
Preservation of Nature ticks off a list of alleged
environmental sins: A new freeway was hastily pushed through
fragile wetlands and forests without regard for environmental
impacts; new ski runs were bulldozed across unspoiled
high-altitude alpine meadows, ignoring existing alternatives;
gargantuan ski-jumping areas, bobsled and luge runs and
parking lots have been carved into mountainsides where the
geology is known to be unstable; and towering office and
condominium complexes have been thrown up in villages and
forests where they are out of character with their
surroundings.
   "It's a disaster," fumes Monique Gautier, a college
biology teacher and member of the federation. Moreover, there
were already enough lifts to carry 1.5 million skiers an hour
in the Alps, and enough ski runs, if placed end to end, to
circle the globe twice, she says.
   Indeed, critics worry that the Albertville Olympics may
prove not merely an environmental flop, but ultimately a
financial one as well. Though projects have been heavily
subsidized by the French government and private sponsors,
almost all of the 13 Albertville-region villages have taken
on large debts in return for a piece of the Olympic pie.
   The result, some fear, is a glut of facilities that may
have little commerical future after the Olympics. More than
$20 million, for example, went into the construction of five
ice rinks in five separate villages. The region supported
none before.
   In La Plagne, home to a new $40 million, ammonia-chilled
bobsled and luge course, Mayor Colette Paviet-Salomon says
residents are worried about the longterm commercial viability
of a facility for a sport with only 3,500 practitioners
worldwide.
   Sobering for all of these villages is the experience of
Grenoble, the 1968 Winter Olympics host, which finds itself
saddled with Olympic debts -- and white elephants -- more
than two decades later. Two major facilities, its Olympic
bobsled run and its ski-jumping course, have both been
abandoned. A nearby ski area that was built for the Olympics
has fallen on hard times. The fate of the bobsled run is
uncertain, but town officials recently put the ski jump up
for sale for one French franc, hoping to avoid the cost of
tearing down the structure.
   Albertville Olympic officials dismiss such comparisons.
They contend the Grenoble ski jump and bobsled course
suffered from poor locations and designs, and have
subsequently been made obsolete by improved design and
construction techniques. But Bruno Veillet, a Rhone Alps
Federation for the Preservation of Nature director, says
Grenoble organizers back then were full of blithe assurances
that the facilities would become the permanent centers of
French bobsleding and ski jumping.
   Environmental concerns have clearly begun to be heard in
the corridors of the International Olympic Committee. IOC
President Juan Antonio Samaranch has said the IOC will at
least consider using existing facilities for future Olympics.
   But the IOC says that decisions about the exact location
of Olympic facilities, and their scale, are left to the local
organizing committees. And such groups, typically dominated
by pro-growth, Chamber of Commerce-type officials, are
disposed to create Olympic facilities from scratch.
   Still, the notion that the Olympics need to be more
ecologically friendly isn't going away. The World
Conservation Union, a global habitat protection group, says
it will press the IOC to form a special environmental
committee to consider, among other things, the re-use of
Olympic sites. And some sports federations, racing ahead of
the IOC, are taking steps to ensure that their sports aren't
tarred as environmental bad guys. Klaus Kotter, president of
the International Bobsleigh Federation, says his group has
formed a committee to help future Olympic organizers avoid
"environmental sins."