Global View:
   Steering Clear of Russia's Mafias
   ----
   By George Melloan
It should not be especially surprising that Russia is
afflicted with crime and disorder. The degree of order and
security that existed before the collapse of communism was
greatly exaggerated in communist propaganda. In the Brezhnev
era, in particular, corruption began at the very top and
filtered down. Western Europe's drug-control agencies for
years charted large-scale movements of heroin through the old
Soviet Union from sources in the Far East. Some was sold in
the U.S.S.R. and some found its way to Western Europe. Crimes
of violence were common enough, in part because of crowded
living conditions and a high rate of alcoholism.
   Moreover, the state itself, through the secret police,
routinely engaged in what would be crimes in any free society
-- blackmail, housebreaking, theft, assault and even murder.
Today's mafias include former secret policemen among their
members, now plying their former trades for private gain
rather than on behalf of the state. Then there are various
ethnic mafias, such as the Chechen from the Trans-Caucusus
region. They would most nearly correspond to the Sicilian
Mafia because the Chechen, like the Sicilians, long ago
formed secret societies as a way of defying the rule of
distant governments.
   Finally, there is the attitude toward private ownership
that communism fostered. Because communist theology deemed it
sinful to own private property, it hardly could be expected
that Russians would grow up with respect for the property
rights of others. And since the party and its rules were so
little respected, cheating against rules of any kind was
often the norm. A Russian college professor told me years ago
that the most important thing he noticed when he emigrated
and found work in an American university was that American
students did relatively little cheating compared with their
Russian counterparts.
   So under the laws of supply and demand, it is only natural
that private security firms and consultancies offer ripe
opportunities for Russians with a yen to be entrepreneurs.
Ms. Ponomareva, interviewed in Brussels where she spoke last
week to a businesswomen's group, is general director of a
three-year-old firm called Information Agency "RAU-Press."
She has a Ph.D. in political science and was a university
professor before launching her new career as a consultant.
   She says her firm employs several lawyers who specialize
in helping foreign investors find reliable partners or in
helping them get their money back if they have been defrauded
by unreliable partners.
   Her lawyers, she says, "know all the tricks, they know how
to bargain, they know how to press people to give the money
back. We address the court if there is any necessity. They
can just go and say, `OK, guys, if you don`t want to give the
money back to the client, you'll face trouble.' We can even
arrest a bank account if it is necessary."
   But the advice goes beyond that. In the new Russia, it is
possible for foreign investors to own buildings and obtain a
long-term lease on land. But this entails obtaining the lease
and necessary permits from local units of government, such as
one of the district governments in the city of Moscow. Since
there is still some confusion about which level of government
owns which piece of property, however, problems can arise
here too.
   Further, her agency offers advice on which local
governments are cooperative and efficient and which are not.
The Journal's Eugene Carlson wrote a few days ago of how an
American firm's caviar shipment from Russia's far east was
held up by a low-level customs official who thought exports
"unpatriotic," which gives some idea of how foreign
businesses can fall victim to the kind of arbitrary decisions
that were the stock in trade of communist bureaucrats. But if
"RAU-Press" and other Russian consulting agencies function as
they should, the word may soon get around as to which local
authorities investors can safely deal with and which they
can't. In short, Russia may develop a market for honest and
efficient bureaucracy.
   Of course, there also are some problems dictated from the
very top. Boris Yeltsin's government, in its efforts to
balance the Russian budget and move the ruble toward
convertibility, has resorted to draconian taxes, particularly
on hard-currency earnings. The result has been that foreign
investors and their Russian joint-venture partners have been
structuring deals so as to keep hard currency abroad and free
of tax. Russia's private banks are trying to set up offices
abroad to facilitate such deals, allowing firms to borrow
rubles against hard-currency deposits abroad.
   Ms. Ponomareva believes that the tax on hard-currency
earnings, clearly a mistake, soon will be reduced or lifted.
She also believes that a law will be passed allowing both
Russians and foreigners to obtain clear title to land,
further facilitating the formation of new businesses and
joint ventures.
   Meanwhile, small private businesses are sprouting in
Moscow and other cities. One of the favorite ways of going
into business under today's hard economic conditions is to
open what in Russia is called a "commercial" shop. In the
West, this might be called a "consignment store" or a
secondhand shop, a place where people can bring their
belongings for resale. She says 15 to 20 commercial shops
have sprung up in her own neighborhood near the Arbat section
of Moscow in the past year.
   In short, Russia is making a beginning at private
business. It will be severely handicapped by its mafias,
which, as Ms. Ponomareva says, have a nose for seeking out
foreigners to victimize. It will continue to be handicapped
as well by the uncertainties surrounding the ruble, although
the ruble seems to be recovering from its initial plummet to
a near-valueless level after prices were freed in January.
Russia right now is a bit like America west of Dodge City in
the mid-1800s. Until Boris Yeltsin can restore order, maybe
guides like Irina Ponomareva can help new settlers through
the badlands.