Foreign Exchange:
   Dollar's Gains Are Marginal as Market
   Awaits Release of U.S. Employment Data
   ----
   By Charlene Lee
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
In early trading Friday in Tokyo, the dollar was at 131.80
yen, down slightly from 132 yen at Thursday's Tokyo close.
The U.S. currency also was trading at 1.6709 marks, down from
1.6725 marks Thursday.
   "Overall, the market is interested in owning and holding
dollars," said Joe Sabbagh, chief trader at European American
Capital Corp. But he added that the market's short-term path
"is going to be laid out with the unemployment numbers."
   Traders have been awaiting the unemployment data, which
are expected to provide an early indication of the U.S.
economy's performance last month.
   According to an average of estimates from economists
surveyed by Dow Jones Capital Markets Report, nonfarm
payrolls are believed to have expanded by 10,000, compared
with a drop of 91,000 in January. The civilian unemployment
rate is seen as having remained unchanged at 7.1%.
   Noting the dollar's almost uninterrupted rise against the
mark and yen this week, observers said participants were wary
of pushing the U.S. currency much higher.
   The dollar met solid resistance at its session highs of
1.6800 marks and 132.43 yen. The U.S. currency was spurred to
those levels early in the North American session by a
favorable U.S. weekly jobless claims report.
   Initial claims for state unemployment benefits fell a
seasonally adjusted 21,000 in the week ended Feb. 22,
compared with a revised increase of 6,000 the previous week.
The rise in the previous week's jobless claims originally was
put at 7,000. Expectations were for a far more modest decline
of 5,000 claims in the most recent week.
   Traders said players jumped at the opportunity to take
profits on dollar holdings at the session's highs and square
their positions ahead of today's unemployment report.
   "The market wasn't in that much of a mood to test
resistance levels. The dollar bulls have done really well
this week. They don't need to force the issue," said Michael
Faust, a foreign-exchange analyst for MMS International.
   William Orsini, Bank of Montreal's senior manager for
treasury markets in New York, said participants were
reluctant to take the dollar beyond 1.68 marks because they
feared Germany's Bundesbank would regard such a move as "too
quick, too far," and seek coordinated intervention with other
central banks.
   Dealers said the market is expecting not only an expansion
in February's nonfarm payrolls, but also a revision narrowing
January's decline. If that is the case, they added, the
dollar could see a quick spike upward to 1.7 marks and 133
yen.
   However, traders and analysts were split on how the dollar
will react if the figures are below expectations. Some
predict a sell-off taking the dollar as low as 1.65 marks,
while others contend a dollar-bullish market might shrug off
such news since employment usually lags behind other economic
indicators.
   Against the Japanese currency, traders said the dollar
encountered difficulty sustaining buying interest around
132.4-132.5 yen. They said Japanese players are holding a
large amount of dollar puts, or options to sell the U.S.
currency, at 132.4132.5 yen.
   But observers expect the yen to remain weak over the
longer term. During yesterday's Asian session, the Japanese
currency encountered selling pressure on the heels of a
report released late Wednesday by Washington-based
consultants Johnson Smick International.
   The report said the Bank of Japan would likely ease the
official discount rate by 0.75 percentage point from the
current 4.5% later this month.
   Although the dollar wasn't directly boosted by the report,
Mr. Faust of MMS International said that it "gave people no
reason to pull back" from dumping yen.