International:
   German Firms Bemoan Production Costs
   ---
   High Wages, Taxes Are Helping
   To Send Jobs Abroad
   ----
   By Terence Roth
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Indeed, Daimler-Benz recently started obtaining diesel
engines and auto parts from foreign sources at half the
German cost. The company not only isn't likely to build any
more major plants in Germany but also wishes it could reverse
its decision to locate its newest car plant, due to be
completed this year, in Rastatt, Germany. It is even
considering producing Mercedes cars in Mexico and Russia.
   Robert Bosch G.m.b.H. last year decided to cut at least
500 jobs by closing a German plant and transferring its
production of car stereo speakers to Malaysia. Bosch has also
transferred much of its production of cassette-player
components to Mexico and gas gauges to Portugal and Turkey,
and it recently began producing generators in Wales.
   Of the 51 billion marks ($32 billion) that Volkswagen AG
plans to invest by 1996, more than half will flow out of
Germany for the first time and into low-cost production sites
in Portugal, Spain, Mexico, China and Czechoslovakia. Siemens
AG is shifting some of its basic production into Eastern
Europe and Turkey.
   The list keeps growing. German industry groups estimate
that jobs are being exported at a rate of more than 100,000 a
year, and that doesn't take into account foreign companies
that may be bypassing Germany in favor of lower-cost European
locations. If production continues to move abroad, Germany's
traditional trade surpluses could soon disappear.
   German executives maintain that costs are often the
driving motive for pulling out of Germany. What it all adds
up to is that Germany is becoming less attractive as a
manufacturing base at the same time other European countries
such as Spain and Portugal are improving their productivity
and industrial infrastructures. The flight of capital exports
German jobs and diminishes Germany's potential future
economic growth and tax base. For Eastern Europe and Southern
Europe, Germany's loss is their gain.
   In 1990 German companies invested a net 29.8 billion marks
abroad, nearly three times the 1988 capital outflow, while
net foreign capital investments in Germany totaled 2.9
billion marks. The gap continued to widen in 1991.
   From 1981 to 1989, Germany drew $14 billion in investments
from other Group of Seven industrial nations. By contrast,
France and Italy each pulled in $36 billion and Britain a
whopping $80 billion.
   "What is truly disturbing is that at a time when we need
all the foreign capital we can get after unity with the East,
we're getting only a tenth of what we are sending abroad,"
says Ottheinrich von Weitershausen of the Federal Employers'
Association, a leading industry group.
   Taken together, the disincentives for investing in Germany
appear formidable.
   German labor costs already are the highest in the world,
and labor unions are threatening to try to increase them this
year. At the end of 1990, the average German worker cost
37.88 marks ($23.50) an hour in wages and benefits, roughly
50% higher than average labor costs in the U.S., Japan,
Britain and France, and five times the wages and benefits of
Portugese workers. By 1995, the average working week in
Germany is contractually set to drift down to 35 hours a week
from 37.5 hours currently. German workers already spend fewer
hours on the job than their counterparts in any of the other
Group of Seven countries.
   Germany has lagged behind reductions in corporate taxes
since the late 1980s. At an average 50%, rates at which
corporate profits are taxed are half again as high as those
in the U.S., Japan and France.
   German companies also pay more for energy, for example 20%
to 40% more for electricity than competitors in the European
Community. Chemical maker BASF would have saved 100 million
marks on its power bill last year if it were paying French
rates. Costs associated with environmental protection are 60%
higher in Germany than the EC average, particularly affecting
smokestack industries strapped with some of the tightest
environmental legislation anywhere.
   Companies that can't easily move abroad are trimming staff
in basic production, where profit margins are more sensitive
to production costs. Fried. Krupp G.m.b.H. plans to cut
10,000 jobs after its proposed merger with Hoesch AG, another
steel and engineering group. Thyssen AG, the diversified
industry group, is trimming 10,000 jobs, too.
   The high cost of doing business has been a recurring
grievance for German manufacturers, a few of which started
shifting production to cheaper sites in the mid-1980s. But
these days the rhetoric has a sharper edge. The European
Community's single market looms after this year, and other
countries are moving to reduce their production costs even as
the German cost problem is growing worse.
   The exodus of jobs from Germany worries German policy
makers, who are furiously trying to talk militant trade
unions out of demanding another round of major pay raises and
more time off. German unions are threatening to strike for
wage increases of 10% this year after receiving 7% in 1991.
   Labor leaders show little inclination to moderate their
demands, dismissing predictions of an economic slowdown as
"propaganda." But Germany's business leaders argue that the
unions' stance could become self-defeating.