OTC Focus:
   Stock Prices Continue to Lack Direction;
   Earnings News Depresses Several Issues
   ----
   By Dave Pettit
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Total OTC volume rose to 204.5 million shares from 176.9
million Monday.
   Traders said investors remain cautious about the market at
its current level. Although the Nasdaq index has risen 8%
this year, it hasn't had a single-session move of more than
two points in either direction since last Wednesday, when it
posted an 11-point rally.
   Stirring the otherwise calm OTC market yesterday were
steep sell-offs in shares of companies including Sunrise
Technologies, which plunged 4 1/2, or 26%, to 13; American
Dental Laser, which dropped 3 1/8, or 32%, to 6 3/4; and Mid
Atlantic Medical, which lost 3, or 21%, to 11 1/4.
   Each of the companies made disappointing disclosures about
results. Sunrise and American Dental projected quarterly
losses, while Mid Atlantic reported lower-than-expected
fourth-quarter net.
   Sunrise Technology shares fell after the company said it
expects to post a loss from operations for the first quarter
because of reduced orders from American Dental. The latter
estimated that it had a fourth-quarter deficit of $1.6
million, and said it could post a similar size, or wider,
loss this quarter.
   Sunrise manufactures the dLase 300 dental laser, which is
marketed and distributed by American Dental. American Dental
attributed its expected disappointing results to decreased
sales and increased expenses. Costs in Europe expanded, it
said, because of its increased presence there.
   Mid Atlantic Medical dropped after the Rockville, Md.,
health care management services concern reported
lower-than-expected fourth-quarter earnings. The company had
net income of 23 cents a share in the latest period, up from
net from operations of 16 cents a share a year ago, but below
the 28 cents a share that one analyst surveyed by Zacks
Investment Research projected.
   Heart Technologies, a new issue, leapt to 25 3/4 from its
offering price of $18 a share, on heavy volume of 4.6 million
shares. The Bellevue, Wash., medical device company was the
subject of an offering of 3.8 million shares, including
300,000 sold by an existing holder.
   The issue was increased from an originally expected 2.5
million shares. Meanwhile, the offer was priced above the
anticipated $12-to-$14 range.
   Several analysts voiced caution about the sharp rise in
Heart Technologies. Piper Jaffray  Hopwood's Edward Mutsch
said the stock jumped to levels that were "clearly too high
and unsustainable," given the company's near-term prospects,
according to Dow Jones Professional Investor Report.
   Elsewhere, Vitalink Pharmacy Services finished at 17 1/2
in its first day of trading. The company, a unit of New York
Stock Exchange-listed Manor Care, was the subject of a 2.4
million-share initial public offering priced at $17 a share.
   Manor Care will retain an 81% stake in Vitalink after the
offering. Vitalink provides pharmacy services to long-term
care providers. Shares of Manor, a nursing home operator,
gained 1 to 25 1/2 in Big Board composite trading.
   Several other stocks slipped on troubling earnings news.
Among them was Intelligent Electronics}, which dropped 2 to
24 1/4 after the computer retailer reported net income of 28
cents a share for the first quarter, ended last month, down
from 36 cents a share a year ago. Revenue, though, rose to
$691.1 million from $431.7 million, largely because of its
acquisition of BizMart last year.
   American Travellers slumped 2 1/8 to 11 1/4 after it
posted reduced fourth-quarter earnings and restated its
results lower for the second and third quarters. The insurer
said its fourth-quarter earnings totaled 30 cents a share,
after it recorded a charge of six cents a share related to
settlement of litigation. In the year-ago period, it earned
31 cents a share.
   The company restated its second quarter net down to 25
cents a share, from a previously reported 33 cents, and
revised its third-quarter net to 28 cents a share, from the
35 cents a share it originally reported. American Travellers
said the changes were necessary to correct errors made in
recording certain expenses and acquisitions.
   United Gaming jumped 2 1/2 to 8 7/8, a move analysts tied
to the company's disclosure Monday that it agreed to operate
video poker machines in Louisiana. The stock rose 1 5/8
Monday.
   American Pacific lost 3 1/4 to 36 3/4. The company filed
with the Securities and Exchange Commission for an offering
of 1,550,000 common shares, including 200,000 to be sold by
existing shareholders.