Vacancies in Commercial Buildings Rose
   Last Year Despite Drop in Construction
   ----
   By Paulette Thomas
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
In previous recessions, a surge in construction helped
pull the economy out of the doldrums. But with so many
buildings idle, both groups expect a real estate rebound to
follow, rather than lead, a broader recovery. "We won't see a
turnaround in real estate markets until employment begins to
grow," predicts Arthur J. Mirante II, president and chief
executive of Cushman  Wakefield.
   The slow economy has taken a toll particularly on
industrial property use. In 1991, vacancies rose one full
percentage point to 10.2% from a year earlier, according to
the realtors society, a trade group. Moreover, absorption --
a measure of how much new space is occupied -- tumbled 40%,
the biggest drop since before the real estate boom of the
mid-1980s.
   Warehouses aren't empty due to a wave of new construction.
Construction of new industrial space last year plummeted to
57.5 million feet last year from 107 million a year earlier.
The trade group cited 27 cities where there was no industrial
construction at all -- a finding it called "stunning."
   Even with so little construction, industrial vacancy rates
at 10 cities topped 21%, led by Wilmington, Del., Quad
Cities, Iowa, and Jackson, Miss., all of which had 30% or
more of their industrial buildings vacant.
   "This is an industry in retreat," said Hugh Kelly, an
economist with Landauer Associates Inc., a real estate
counseling and research firm. He doesn't predict a decline in
industrial vacancies until 1993 at the earliest.
   Office space also continued to be gloomily underused.
Cushman's survey of 35 central business districts and 45
suburban markets showed that the office vacancy rate rose to
18.8% nationally at the end of 1991, compared with 17.6% a
year earlier. In suburban areas, vacancies increased slightly
to 21.4% from 21.1%, the company said.
   The realtor group polled 115 cities, and found office
vacancies up two points, to 18.9%, from its survey of a year
earlier. "No office markets can be said to be in a healthy
state of affairs this year," Mr. Kelly added.
   Office space construction also dropped last year. Only
53.5 million square feet were under construction at year-end
1991, compared with 93.5 million square feet a year earlier,
the realtor group said.
   Office vacancies were highest, according to both surveys,
in Los Angeles, New Haven, Conn., San Antonio, Texas, and
Dallas, all of which had office vacancies higher than 25%.