Business Brief:
   Synergy Group Joins Contest to Acquire
   Debt-Laden Petrolane Gas Service L.P.
Petrolane has been struggling with $1.06 billion in debt
outstanding, $375 million of which is in publicly traded junk
bonds. The company hasn't made a payment to senior creditors
or bondholders since mid-September.
   As with the other bids, it's difficult to put a value on
Synergy Group's proposal because it offers cash, notes and
equity in exchange for debt, and also seeks some debt
rescheduling. Synergy Group's proposal calls for holders of
Petrolane's junk bonds to swap their notes for $100 million
in cash, new Petrolane notes with a market value of $40
million and a 25% stake in the reorganized company, according
to a statement by QFB Partners, the joint venture of First
Boston Corp. and Quantum Chemical Corp. that owns Petrolane.
   Petrolane's senior creditors would be asked to agree to a
change in the repayment schedule and in some debt covenants
in exchange for an unspecified equity position. In addition,
Synergy has agreed to give QFB a 10% stake or $10 million as
a condition of the restructuring. Synergy officials couldn't
be reached for comment.
   Meanwhile, a bid by UGI Corp.'s AmeriGas propane unit
offers Petrolane's junk-bond holders $112.5 million in cash
and new subordinated debentures with a "fair market" value of
$56.5 million. UGI valued the offer at about 45 cents on the
dollar. UGI, based in Valley Forge, Pa., also would pay
Quantum and First Boston $5 million each.
   In contrast, a proposal by Empire Gas Corp. of Lebanon,
Mo., offers no cash to bondholders and scales back debt
payments. Under that bid, senior lenders would get reduced
repayments in the next two years in return for a 5% equity
stake in the restructured company. The junk-bond holders also
would get lower, rescheduled payments for a 25% stake. Empire
Gas would hold 60% of the new company, while QFB partners
would exchange its stake for the remaining 10% or future
payments from cash flow.
   Clayton  Dubilier, a New York leveraged buy-out firm,
withdrew its offer in December but has indicated that it
remains interested in acquiring the company, Petrolane said.