REVIEW  OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   Granting Choices
Education Secretary Lamar Alexander calls the program "a
G.I. Bill for Kids." "It gives low- and moderate-income K-12
students the same opportunities their younger and older
siblings have," he says. He thinks it would have the same
stimulative effect on elementary and secondary education that
the G.I. Bill had on universities after World War II.
   "People forget the G.I. Bill was bitterly opposed in
1945," says Mr. Alexander. Educators opposed its use in
private universities. Robert Hutchins, the president of the
University of Chicago, warned that it would create
"educational hobo jungles." Instead, American higher
education prospered. The G.I. Bill strengthened, not
weakened, public universities. "In 1945, some 80% of college
students went to private institutions," Secretary Alexander
says. "Today, 80% of students go to public or state schools."
He believes that most of the "choice grants" would be used to
send children to public schools, especially magnet schools or
special-education facilities.
   As for private schools, opponents of choice ask how
valuable $1,000 in federal and state scholarships would be to
a poor family struggling to make ends meet. They forget that
the typical private school charges less than the cost of
educating a student in public schools. Though no doubt
somewhat higher today, tuition in 1989 at Catholic elementary
schools averaged $924 and $2,299 for high school.
   Choice grants would be a boon to cities that favor
educational innovation, but have no money. Chicago Mayor
Richard Daley is on record as being interested in choice; the
prospect of extra federal dollars can only excite his
interest. Philadelphia's new mayor, Ed Rendell, should also
take note. A fully funded Bush proposal would mean $78
million in new education funding for parents in his nearly
bankrupt city.
   The Bush plan for "choice grants" puts Senator Edward
Kennedy, a primary enemy of choice, on the spot. Last month,
he killed a previous Bush choice proposal by saying that it
didn't address the financial needs of schools. The new Bush
plan provides some new federal education dollars, but it
gives parents the choice of where to spend them. If Senator
Kennedy blocks this idea, his agenda will be clear: Restrict
money to only certain kinds of schools, namely those captive
to unionized public-school monopolies.
   The performances of kids in America's public schools
aren't going to get better until parents become more
involved. With the opportunity of choice, parents will start
making qualitative distinctions among schools and, as
important, start paying attention to their kids' grades. The
Bush proposal, if the Democrats don't kill it, will get this
process started in the lower grades, the foundation of any
good education.