Technology:
   Sony Is Turning
   More Cautious
   After Reverses
   ----
   By Jacob M. Schlesinger
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Specifically, Mr. Iwaki said, Sony will be forced to cut
capital spending, squeeze more profitability out of its
mundane core businesses like televisions and videocassette
recorders, and strike up more alliances, particularly in the
elusive field of computers.
   In addition, Sony is trying to redefine its vision of its
computer/multimedia business. In the interview, Mr. Iwaki,
who is considered a contender to take over one of the
company's top spots when Chairman Akio Morita and President
Norio Ohga eventually retire, vowed an internal structural
shake-up. Currently, several teams spread across Sony's
separate audio, video and computer divisions are
independently developing computer products. But, Mr. Iwaki
said, "in two, three months' time I'm thinking of combining
them into one so that we can be effectively focused on one
area."
   Mr. Iwaki also said that Sony wants 10% of its sales to
come from computers five years from now, up from "almost
none" today. But "we're not really looking into the so-called
office market," he insisted. "We are looking for something
that combines with our current audio-video products." For
example, "In many homes you have five or six remote
controllers. . . . Everything can be controlled by one
{remote control device}, but you need some computer."
   Industry speculation has intensified in the past few
months about a broad relationship with Apple Computer Inc.,
especially since Sony this fall started making a laptop PC
model for the Silicon Valley company and has invested in an
Apple spinoff.
   Regarding Apple, Mr. Iwaki said only that the companies
are "still talking very much" and nothing is "completely
decided." He added that "we are keeping good friendships with
many people," including Apple, International Business
Machines Corp. and Microsoft Corp.
   The world-wide economic slowdown is partly at fault for
Sony's problems. It has amplified the costs of a series of
"miscalculations" that are "now forcing us to modify some of
our basic business -- not strategies but business-schedules,"
said Mr. Iwaki.
   "We spent a lot of R&D costs in the past three, four
years" in a range of new fields but "cannot get a return on
investment," Mr. Iwaki explained.
   Sony's past five years were marked by breathless
expansion, with annual sales more than doubling to 3.62
trillion yen ($29.04 billion) in the year ended March 31,
1991, from 1.45 trillion yen in 1986. The growth was fueled
by a series of hit products, most notably the lightweight
camcorder that revolutionized personal videos. Sony's rapid
growth helped push companies like Toshiba Corp. out of the
audio business. Sony also swallowed two U.S. entertainment
giants -- CBS Records, then Columbia Pictures Entertainment
-- for a combined total of more than $5 billion and
articulated a heady vision of a "hardware" and "software"
marriage.
   Many pundits argued that Sony, not such computer giants as
Fujitsu Ltd. or Hitachi Ltd., posed Japan's most serious
threat to the U.S.'s world-wide computer dominance. The big
growth area for computers in the 1990s, many argue, will be
the home market, where experienced appliance peddlers like
Sony have an edge.
   In November, though, Sony reported its profit for the
fiscal first half dropped 13.3% and that profit for the full
year would probably drop 19% -- the first annual drop in four
years. Two days later, it raised 118 billion yen by selling
shares in its Japanese Sony Music Entertainment unit. But the
share prices plunged 17% the day of the offering, making
investors leery of any new Sony issues.
   Mr. Iwaki said that various economic factors beyond Sony's
control -- including the sharp rise in the value of the yen
over the past year -- were partly to blame.
   But Mr. Iwaki confessed that other factors have also hurt.
"One of the miscalculations is high-definition TV," he said.
Sony and the other major Japanese electronics companies
poured billions of yen into HDTV development over the past
two decades, and "we thought high-definition TV would become
a real business." But Japan's efforts have stalled.
   Few Japanese leaders will acknowledge that their world
leadership in HDTV -- long a source of national pride -- has
turned into an embarrassment. But Mr. Iwaki, who is in charge
of Sony's High-Definition Promotion Group, is less delicate:
"Now it has more confusion. We're not quite sure if we wait,
will it come?"
   Sony's other major miscalculation was its hope for
multimedia, loosely defined as the blending of graphics,
video, sound and text. Yet that market, too, has to date
lagged far behind expectations. "We spent a lot of money on
this area, but still we don't have the answer yet," said Mr.
Iwaki. "In our modified business strategy, we are now looking
at this as slower growth."
   Sony has also stumbled in computers, an area that even
Sony bulls describe as its Achilles heel. The company never
seriously entered the personal computer market but got lots
of positive press for an engineering workstation it
introduced in 1987. After some early domestic success,
however, the machine never took off overseas and is losing
market share in Japan. Sony's Palmtop computer -- a handheld
PC that uses a pen-like stylus to enter data instead of a
keyboard -- is considered a novelty but a commercial flop.
Mr. Iwaki describes Sony's computer business until now as
"not really based on a grand design; it's a kind of a trial
and error."
   Finally, the competition has gotten much stiffer. "Sony
was too good," said Shoji Sakuma, executive vice president in
charge of consumer electronics at Matsushita Electric
Industrial Co. He argued that Sony in effect was a bit lucky
with its string of hits. And Mr. Iwaki conceded that the more
staid Osaka giant "has really hit Sony across the board" in
the past couple of years.