California Timber Reform Bill Lacks
   Landmark Status Once Hoped for It
   ----
   By Charles McCoy
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The governor hails the package as a triumph of balancing
timber protection and timber jobs. The current legislation is
based on proposals put forth by the governor after his
November veto of a somewhat more restrictive package which
had been feverishly opposed by some, but not all, of the
state's major logging concerns. Among other things, the bill
is designed to end clear-cutting in ancient forests and
expand protection of wildlife and watersheds in other
timberlands.
   Many pro-tree groups that supported earlier versions of
the legislation, however, say the final proposal contains so
many compromises and loopholes that it won't protect the
forests from continued heavy cutting. Even some big logging
company foresters privately say the new laws won't change
their operations significantly. Thus, the legislation, once
hailed as a possible model for helping resolve the broader
national debate over balancing conservation and jobs, now
seems unlikely to have much effect on the draining cycle of
court fights and regulatory battles over logging practices.
   "An opportunity has been lost," said Robert Hrubes, a
forestry consultant who helped draft earlier versions of the
legislation. Mr. Hrubes's clients have included both
environmental groups and state logging agencies. "The bottom
line is that this package won't solve any of the issues that
have polarized the timber companies and the environmental
commmunity."
   The latest legislation, in conjunction with emergency
regulations imposed by the state's Board of Forestry late
last year, does contain some increased forest protections. In
addition to restrictions on clear-cutting, the legislation
also expands some restrictions on the amount of cutting that
can be done close to streams, and on how soon logged areas
can be re-entered and logged again.
   The proposal does have some environmentalists' support,
including Hal Arbit, a wealthy private investor who spent $5
million of his own money backing a 1990 ballot initiative
containing much more severe logging restrictions. That
initiative narrowly failed, but it spooked some big timber
companies into negotiations with Mr. Arbit over forest
reforms. Mr. Arbit recently dropped his plan to finance
another tough anti-logging initiative this year.
   Critics of the latest bill include mainstream
environmental groups such as the Sierra Club and the
Wilderness Society, who say that it has become too vague and
places too much discretion in the hands of state forestry
agencies, which environmentalists regard as overly
sympathetic to timber companies. They note with some dismay
that Pacific Lumber Co., whose heavy cutting of old redwoods
since it was acquired by takeover artist Charles Hurwitz
several years ago has outraged environmentalists, now
supports the bill.
   Even supporters of the latest bill have been troubled by
the course the reform effort has taken. "We are getting some
landmark improvements," said Warner Chabot, a spokesman for
Mr. Arbit and other environmentalists backing the proposal.
"Is it everything we'd like? No. And it's been a very
divisive process. But there is a difference between what's
ideal and what's possible."