US Sprint Sale
   Gives United
   Telecom 100%
   ----
   By John J. Keller
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The purchase brings to a close one of the most contentious
partnerships in telecommunications history. Although Sprint
was formed as a 50/50 joint venture in 1986, GTE began its
pullout from Sprint three years ago when it sold 30.1% of its
stake to United for about $600 million. Since then GTE, based
in Stamford, Conn., has been a passive investor.
   United, Westwood, Kan., said it plans to finance the
Sprint purchase through a combination of short-term and
long-term debt. As of Sept. 30, United debt totaled $4.3
billion.
   For GTE, the Sprint proceeds won't go far enough to
relieve its debt burden from its merger with Contel Corp.
Yesterday Standard & Poor's Corp. put debt of GTE and its
subsidiaries on its CreditWatch list with negative
implications. S&P said it was concerned about the progress
GTE is making in reducing financial obligations which total
about $19 billion, including outstanding debt and preferred
stock.
   In composite trading on the New York Stock Exchange,
United's shares closed unchanged at $23.75 a share while GTE
shares fell 12.5 cents a share to $34.50.
   There has been speculation in the telecommunications
industry since last summer that United would purchase GTE's
stake and resell it to a foreign carrier. But United Chairman
William T. Esrey yesterday said this was never in the cards.
He said the partnership agreement precluded the companies
from selling their stakes to a third party and that it had
been United's intention since 1989 to own all of Sprint. In
fact, he said, United will change its name to Sprint sometime
in the next few months after the deal closes.
   Sprint's fortunes have been mixed. GTE and United argued
over how the company should be run as Sprint racked up more
than $2 billion in losses since the partnership was formed in
1986. In the third quarter ended Sept. 30, 1991, Sprint's
operating profit climbed to $90 million from $54 million in
the 1990 third quarter. The subsidiary's third-quarter
revenue grew 5.5% to $1.35 billion from $1.28 billion a year
earlier but fell slightly from the $1.36 billion of revenue
in 1991 second quarter. Sprint said its traffic volume growth
in the third quarter was "relatively flat" with the second
quarter.
   Sprint has suffered from billing problems and numerous
marketing foulups in the last few years. Sprint has been
"growing one and a half times the {annual} market rate" of 4%
to 6% in the corporate long-distance market, Mr. Esrey said.
But "we are not satisfied with what we're doing in the
smaller user, residential market where we have probably lost
a percent or something in market share."