Insurers May Limit New Coverage Tied
   To Implants if FDA Bans the Devices
   ----
   By Susan Pulliam
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Most insurance companies say they are awaiting the FDA's
ruling on breast implants before deciding whether to change
their policies on payment of claims related to breast
implants. The agency is expected to rule not only whether to
ban breast implants, but also on their safety.
   "If the FDA decides there is enough evidence linking
implants to {health problems}, we have to decide what we are
able to cover and what we are not for those conditions," said
a spokesman for Blue Cross  Blue Shield of California.
   The group of women most likely to be affected if the FDA
bans breast implants or links them to health conditions are
those who buy insurance under an individual policy, rather
than a group insurance plan. Insurers say they would not deny
coverage to women with implants or halt current coverage for
those with the devices.
   They may, however, restrict payment of claims related to
implants for new policies under "pre-existing condition"
clauses. Such clauses allow insurers to deny an applicant
coverage of health problems he has when he applies.
   Empire Blue Cross  Blue Shield, for example, says that it
will consider a breast implant a "pre-existing condition,"
meaning it would not pay claims for problems related to an
implant for 11 months. "We would cover them for any other
illness, but if it involves the implant, it would not be
covered," a spokesman said.
   Currently, most group health insurance plans pay for
claims from breast implant complications, a spokesman for the
Health Insurance Association of America said. He said most
group insurance plans pay for claims for those complications
whether the implant was considered reconstructive or cosmetic
surgery. Usually the initial surgical procedure is not
covered if it is considered cosmetic, however.
   Complications from breast implants are not always covered
under some individual and small group health insurance
policies, however. A spokeswoman for Mutual of Omaha said
that the company currently covers complications from breast
implants for reconstructive surgery under individual
policies. The company does not, however, cover health
problems that develop if the implant was considered cosmetic.
   Similarly, Empire Blue Cross routinely pays claims for
problems if the breast implant was used in reconstructive
surgery, but not if used for cosmetic reasons.
   If the FDA bans the devices, however, the Mutual of Omaha
spokeswoman said complications would not be covered under new
policies, regardless of whether the implant was used for
reconstructive or cosmetic surgery.
   "This would be in keeping with insurance companies' policy
of reducing their risk and leaving their policyholders at
risk for paying health-care costs," said a spokeswoman for
Citizen Action, an affiliation of state insurance groups.
   A spokesman for Blue Cross of California said it is
unclear what action the company will take if the FDA bans
breast implants. "Any individual who comes to us with a claim
would likely be subject to a medical review," he said.
Currently, the company does not link any claims it pays to
implants, he said.
   It is unclear whether insurers will pay for removal of
implants, depending on the FDA's decision. A spokesman for
Prudential Insurance Co. of America said that the company
will pay for complications or procedures if a doctor deems
them "medically necessary."
   The issue of whether insurers pay for such claims could
cause public relations problems for the insurance industry,
however. The spokesman for HIAA said he does not believe
insurers will change their policies based on the FDA's
ruling. Even if some do, he says, insurance will still be
available for those individuals through other carriers that
have not changed their policies.