The Outlook:
   Daunting Implications
   Of a Slow Recovery
   ----
   By Rick Wartzman
To many, the distinction between an actual recession and
an anemic recovery is irrelevant. When you use the "common
sense duck test," notes Michael Boskin, President Bush's
chief economist, most would agree that "it's been a lousy
period."
                                                                                                       

   But a slow-growth economy has significant implications --
especially during an election year. On the one hand, it means
that the unemployed still have a rough time finding jobs,
consumer confidence remains bleak and the possibility of
tipping back into recession is all the more likely. On the
other hand, the economy holds just enough promise for the
Federal Reserve to keep from easing interest rates further.
It is, in short, the economic equivalent of purgatory.
                                                                                                       

   Perhaps even more important is what the current state of
the economy may reveal about the future. Although it's a
mistake to confuse a regular business cycle with the forces
shaping the long-term economic landscape, slow growth has
become a theme that's common to both. In this sense, some
fear that the snail's-pace recovery is providing a taste of
things to come.
   Exactly when the recession ended and the recovery began
will be decided by the Business Cycle Dating Committee of the
National Bureau of Economic Research, a private group in
Cambridge, Mass. When making its official determination, this
panel of economists examines a range of data, from retail
sales to industrial production to gross domestic product.
                                                                                                       

   Since the second quarter of last year, real GDP has been
expanding steadily, but barely. In the past few weeks, clear
signs have emerged that the pace of growth is picking up.
Home sales and home construction are increasing, and that has
spawned scattered sales of furniture and appliances. The hope
is those early spring buds will flower into better growth
later this year. And some economists say they wouldn't rule
out a strong bounce back. Don't take slow-growth predictions
"as gospel," says American Enterprise Institute's Herbert
Stein, given how poorly economists have forecast aspects of
this cycle.
                                                                                                       

   Nevertheless, most analysts argue the recovery will
continue to be well below par. Among the reasons: continued
debt problems, corporate restructurings and a lack of the
kind of fiscal and monetary stimuli that have tweaked the
economy in the past.
   Moreover, the Japanese economy is putting on the brakes
just as the U.S. economy is starting to accelerate. Despite
all the talk about their "closed markets," the Japanese buy
more goods from the U.S. than any other country except Canada
-- nearly $50 billion a year. As their economy slows, ours is
sure to suffer. And in past slowdowns, Japanese industry has
responded by trying to ship even more goods abroad -- a
strategy that would cause a double blow to U.S. industry.
   At the Federal Reserve Board, top officials also say
they're worried about another spillover effect from Japan's
current problems. The sharp drop in the Tokyo stock market
may force Japanese investors to sell off U.S. securities and
pull their money home to cover losses. That, in turn, could
cause long-turn interest rates here to rise.
                                                                                                       

   In the White House, the implications of slow growth are
well understood. In the past, an economic recovery that began
by the spring would have been sufficient to re-elect a
president in November. But this time, the president's
advisers privately warn that growth likely won't be
sufficient to eliminate the economy as the top campaign
issue.
                                                                                                       

   For the rest of the nation, continued slow growth this
year will underscore already serious questions about the
longer-term. Real GDP grew at an annual average of 3.8% from
1961 to 1971, but it fell to 2.3% from 1981 to 1991. For a
year and a half before the recession, real GDP grew at an
annual rate of just about 1.25%. And the future is daunting.
Growth in the labor force, which helped fuel the expansion of
the 1980s, will be down sharply in coming years because of
demographic changes, according to the Labor Department. And
gains in productivity -- the measure of output per hour of
work -- have been disappointing for two decades. "We may just
have to lower our aspirations as far as growth is concerned,"
says Stanford economist Robert Hall, who chairs the Business
Cycle Dating Committee.
   The consensus is that near-term growth will be slow. But
even once the shackles are off, we may find we don't run as
fast as we used to.