Technology:
   Xerox Corp. Turns
   Facsimile Machines
   Into Computer Keys
   ---
   Software Uses Fax to Order
   Retrieval, Distribution
   And Storage From PC
   ----
   By Peter Pae
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Dubbed PaperWorks, the software allows users to retrieve,
store, distribute and organize documents without having to be
near their personal computers -- all on a single sheet of fax
paper.
   "It's technologically backwards, but socially very
usable," said Esther Dyson, editor of Release 1.0, a New
York-based computer industry newsletter.
   Several companies have developed software in recent years
that integrates personal computers with fax machines to carry
out various business tasks. Cardiff Software Inc. of Solana,
Calif., recently began shipping Teleform for Windows, a
software that allows computers to send customized forms via
fax machines; the forms can then be returned to the computer
by fax machine after they are filled out.
   Similarly, but with a new wrinkle, the Xerox software lets
users manipulate a personal computer by sending a single
sheet of paper to the computer. Users make check marks with a
pen or a pencil in boxes on the sheet and then fax the form
to their PC, which carries out the instructions.
   The instructions could be as simple as asking the computer
to retrieve a stored document or as complicated as having the
PC distribute several different documents to a number of
different people. To retrieve a document, for example, the
user indicates the document to be accessed, then faxes the
form to the computer. The software then automatically returns
the selected document to the fax machine. Distributing
documents would work in a similiar manner but the document
requested would be sent to other fax machines.
   There is a catch, however. The software can be used only
with Microsoft Corp.'s Windows program, and the computer has
to have a fax board installed that allows computers to dial
up fax machines.
   Xerox, based in Stamford, Conn., said that so far there
are only about 150,000 owners of computers with equipment
capable of running the software. But Xerox asserted that the
software could widen the market for the fax equipment and in
turn boost sales of the software. The software, developed at
Xerox's Palo Alto, Calif., research center, is priced at
$249.95.