Classified Data
   Sought in Lawsuit
   Against Pentagon
   ----
   By Rick Wartzman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
So far, the Navy has managed to keep the information
secret. But the dispute could come to a boil tomorrow, when a
closed-door hearing on the matter is held in U.S. Claims
Court in Washington.
   Separately yesterday, the Justice Department said it
formally notified McDonnell Douglas and General Dynamics that
it had dropped its criminal investigation into their
accounting practices on the A-12 project. The department's
decision was expected.
   It's unclear why the companies are pressing to disclose
the classified information, which apparently relates in part
to budgetary concerns. One person close to the case suggested
that while the Claims Court has the authority to consider
classified material, "marshaling evidence in a classified
environment is very, very difficult."
   The companies could be trying to gain leverage by exposing
embarrassing details about the government's role in the A-12
fiasco as the two sides push toward settlement talks. The
A-12, which the Navy once touted as its 21st-century dream
plane, was canceled a year ago after huge cost overruns and
schedule delays came to light.
   Tomorrow's court hearing comes on the heels of an
unsuccessful attempt by the companies to have the classified
information unveiled.
   Last November, the contractors lodged a complaint with the
Information Security Oversight Office, the federal agency
that is responsible for monitoring the government's
document-classification system. The essence of their
complaint was that the Navy already has made much of the
information in the 11 paragraphs available "in other
contexts." For example, the companies said information in
certain of the paragraphs could be gleaned through a reading
of unclassified accounting number codes used by the Navy.
   But last week, the oversight office responded that the
"information sought to be protected by the Navy" is
"legitimately classified."
   Meanwhile, in St. Louis, a spokesman for McDonnell Douglas
said the company is pleased "the grand jury has completed its
work" on the A-12 criminal case. A spokesman for General
Dynamics, based in Falls Church, Va., echoed those
sentiments.
   As previously reported, the Justice Department's decision
not to pursue the companies comes despite the urging of
Pentagon criminal investigators to prosecute the concerns for
allegedly submitting to the government false and inaccurate
cost and schedule data on the A-12. Both companies have
denied any wrongdoing.