Spain's Repsol
   Posts 3.6% Rise
   In 1991 Profit
   ----
   By Carlta Vitzthum
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
Consolidated net income at Repsol rose to 70.17 billion
pesetas ($680.5 million) from 67.7 billion pesetas a year
earlier, damped by the company's conservative provisioning
policy. The state-controlled company said it channeled 12.6
billion pesetas from asset sales into provisions to cover
pension funds and the cost of reducing its work force.
   In the past five years, Repsol has spent 85 billion
pesetas to cover stock depreciation, asset write-downs and
other extraordinary costs. "With this policy, {Repsol} seeks
to prepare for an uncertain international oil context, a very
bad situation in the international chemical market and the
liberalization of the domestic market," the company said.
   Given a relatively bright outlook for Repsol's 1992
performance, the government is likely to lower its 66.5%
stake in Repsol before summer, possibly through a convertible
bond issue to help the market absorb the new shares,
individuals close to the company said.
   Although details on the value of the launch weren't
provided, the individuals said the bonds are likely to be
offered in two tranches: one for the domestic market in the
spring, followed later by an international issue. About 50%
of Repsol's listed shares currently trade in New York.
   Analysts expect Repsol's net and operating profit to be
flat in 1992, hurt by a depressed petrochemical market. Also,
refining margins in 1992 are likely to fall sharply from last
year, when oil companies enjoyed windfall profits as a result
of the Persian Gulf War.
   Mike Crawshaw, an oil analyst at County NatWest in London,
said he expects profit to rebound in 1993, reflecting an
upturn in the petrochemical market.
   Profit from Repsol's growing natural gas activities also
will offset a possible reduction in refining margins, as
liquid petroleum gas prices are liberalized this year. Higher
LPG prices may boost group operating income by as much as 15%
a year, as prices are brought in line with the European
Community average, Mr. Crawshaw said.
   Although the deregulation of the Spanish oil market will
lead to greater competition, Mr. Crawshaw and other analysts
don't expect Repsol to feel the pinch until 1994 or 1995.
Newcomers to the Spanish market, such as Societe Nationale
Elf Aquitaine and British Petroleum Co., aren't likely to
start a price war until their Spanish units have competitive
retail networks in place, they said.
   Repsol said group operating profit surged to 129 billion
pesetas in 1992 from 111 billion pesetas a year earlier,
despite a sharp drop in operating profit at its petrochemical
unit to 1.22 billion pesetas from 24 billion pesetas.
   Boosted by a sharp drop in oil prices during the Gulf War,
operating income at Repsol's refining and marketing unit
soared 45% to 103.48 billion pesetas in 1991. The company's
exploration and production unit reported a 94% jump in
operating income to 10.5 billion pesetas.