Intel May Face Texas Instruments Bid
   To Sell Clone of Its Chip, Sources Say
   ----
   By Stephen Kreider Yoder
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
If the pair agreed on a deal, it could sharply raise the
stakes in the lucrative market for chips that are compatible
with Intel's microprocessors, the "brains" of today's most
popular personal computers.
   Advanced Micro Devices Inc., Sunnyvale, Calif., already
has grabbed significant market share with its clone of
Intel's 386 chip, helping drive down personal computer
prices. Several others, including Chips  Technologies, San
Jose, Calif., and Cyrix Corp. of Richardson, Texas, plan to
sell Intel-compatible chips this year, while several Asian
companies also have clones in the works.
   For Texas Instruments, acquiring a clone would give it a
quick entry into the booming microprocessor market, saving it
years of development time. Chips  Technologies announced its
Intel clone late last year after spending $50 million over
three years to develop it.
   More important, having the rights to an Intel clone would
allow Texas Instruments to create for its customers,
including its own divisions, a type of chip that is expected
to be a mainstay in future electronics products -- single
chips that combine standard microprocessor "cores" with a
selection of other circuits that tailor the chips for
specific niches.
   A Texas Instruments spokeswoman said the company doesn't
discuss "speculation or rumors of negotiations." But she
conceded that "we are considering how TI could provide a core
microprocessor, because it's something we believe is
important to our ability to offer valuable differentiation
and integration to our customers."
   Chip makers such as Intel and LSI Logic Inc., Milpitas,
Calif., are increasingly pushing such chips as they gain the
ability to cram a growing number of transistors on a chip.
Texas Instruments could quickly become a powerful player
because it is renowned for expertise in circuits that would
be logical mates to microprocessors -- circuits for
networking, graphics and processing digital signals, for
example.
   The deal could aid Chips  Technologies in a similar
fashion. Some analysts believe that, as part of any pact,
Chips  Technologies would obtain the rights to use certain
Texas Instruments circuits that the California company may
want to build into its own products. A Chips  Technologies
spokesman said the company didn't have any comment.
   Texas Instruments's backing would also make Chips 
Technologies' customers more comfortable in buying its
Intel-compatible chips, which the financially troubled
company's executives have said hold the only hope for future
profits.
   Officials familiar with the talks said that, in addition
to giving Texas Instruments the rights to use Chips 
Technologies' circuits in the Dallas company's chips, an
agreement would probably stipulate that Texas Instruments
make chips under consignment for Chips  Technologies, which
doesn't have its own factories. Texas Instruments, with its
huge patent portfolio and legal muscle, would provide Chips 
Technology with a powerful ally against any legal challenges
from Intel, Santa Clara, Calif.