Rule of Law:
   The RICO Monster Turns Against Its Master
   ----
   By L. Gordon Crovitz
Mr. Giuliani also lost the votes of several panels of
federal appeals judges, who reversed a string of his notable
white-collar convictions, including such Greed Decade cases
as GAF, James Sherwin, John Mulheren Jr., Robert Chestman and
Robert Wallach. The judges are saying that after prosecutions
of the obvious crimes committed by inside traders Ivan Boesky
and Dennis Levine, many of Mr. Giuliani's Wall Street targets
were innocent.
   More bad news for Mr. Giuliani came last week when his
successors in the U.S. Attorney's office took the judges'
advice and gave up on his infamous RICO case against
Princeton/Newport. This was the first securities firm charged
as a "racketeering" organization. It was also the test run
for Mr. Giuliani's criminalizing of tax, stock "parking" and
other technical offenses, which led to the granddaddy of
RICOs, Mr. Giuliani's case against Drexel Burnham Lambert.
   In 1987, Mr. Giuliani dispatched 50 federal marshals
outfitted with weapons and bulletproof vests to raid
Princeton/Newport's offices near the Princeton University
campus. He indicted the firm as a racketeering criminal
enterprise based on alleged tax fraud, but the defendants
argued the year-end trades were legal ways to reduce taxes.
Prosecutors demanded pretrial forfeitures under RICO in the
tens of millions of dollars, which led investors such as the
Harvard endowment to flee, sending Princeton/Newport into
pretrial liquidation. This sentence-first, verdict-later
twist included the irony that the Internal Revenue Service
said the firm actually overpaid its taxes.
   The 1989 trial also proved the power of RICO. Assistant
prosecutor Mark Hansen assured jurors that RICO meant never
having to prove a real crime. "You don't need a fancy tax-law
expert because common sense tells you it's fraudulent, it's
phony," he said. "If it sounds sleazy, it's because it is
sleazy." As this column has noted, this was akin to the lines
spoken in the movie "Treasure of the Sierra Madre" by the
Mexican bandits: "Badges? We ain't got no badges. . . . I
don't have to show you any stinkin' badges]" Tax law? We
don't need no stinkin' tax law.
   The jury convicted the Princeton/Newport defendants, who
were sentenced to jail, but even the Justice Department was
embarrassed. After the trial, it changed the RICO guidelines
for prosecutors to prevent such pretrial liquidations of
legitimate businesses or tax prosecutions masquerading as
racketeering cases.
   Last July, the Federal Court of Appeals in New York went
further. The judges reversed the RICO, tax and conspiracy
convictions against the Princeton/Newport executives. The
court said the defendants were denied a fair trial because
they had no opportunity to prove good-faith reliance on the
tax laws. Contrary to the position of the federal
prosecutors, tax experts matter in tax cases even if the
lawsuits are labeled as RICO. Prosecutors dropped the case
with the almost certain prospect that appeals judges would
reverse any convictions in this Keystone Kops case.
   This is not the last chapter on RICO. The only investment
banker now doing time in jail after a racketeering indictment
is Michael Milken. Like Drexel, Mr. Milken decided that
copping a plea to technical offenses was better than the
Kafkaesque experience of a RICO trial. He awaits word on
whether Judge Kimba Wood will reduce his 10-year sentence now
that he cooperated with prosecutors -- though unlike Mr.
Boesky, Mr. Milken apparently refused to offer "cooperation"
that would lead to convictions that appeals judges would
later have to reverse. Mr. Milken agreed to a plea bargain,
so his case is one of the few high-profile Giuliani
prosecutions that will never be reviewed by the skeptical
appeals court in New York.
   Prosecutors don't always take the judicial hint. They plan
to retry Mr. Wallach, the San Francisco lawyer and friend of
Edwin Meese. An appeals court in June reversed Mr. Wallach's
conviction under RICO and other charges relating to work he
did for the Wedtech defense firm. The judges said the lead
witness for the prosecution, a Wedtech official at the center
of the firm's corruption, committed perjury. The court
strongly suggested that prosecutors knew their witness was
lying and ruled the jury wouldn't have convicted Mr. Wallach
if it knew about the lies.
   Trial prosecutor Baruch Weiss said in a deposition last
week that his higher-ups on the prosecution team, including
now-Judge Louis Freeh, also condoned the perjury -- as if
this excused the abuse. Prosecutors plan to ignore
double-jeopardy rules to retry Mr. Wallach, though without
the RICO count. His lawyer, former Judge Robert Bork, should
ask Attorney General William Barr if any retrial is worthy of
the dignity of the Justice Department.
   Embarrassment alone probably won't kill RICO. James Regan,
who was the managing partner of Princeton/Newport and has a
new financial firm called Harbourtown Enterprises, should be
the first witness at the next congressional hearing on RICO.
"Whatever RICO's original purpose, Congress couldn't have
meant to delegate so much discretion to prosecutors," he
said. "Everyone asks if I'm going to sue the government for
my losses," Mr. Regan said. "The lawyers tell me the
government is totally immune from attack by us."
   Indeed, Mr. Giuliani is lucky that prosecutors so far are
not subject to federal sanctions for abusive RICO
prosecutions. The Supreme Court this week upheld a $1 million
penalty on the left-wing Christic Institute and its chief
conspiratorialist, Daniel Sheehan. Its 1986 RICO lawsuit
claimed that retired Gen. John Singlaub, former CIA official
Theodore Shackley and others were "racketeers" for helping
the Nicaraguan Contras. The trial judge dismissed the lawsuit
as frivolous and based on "unsubstantiated rumor and
speculation." The Christic Institute is a charter member of
"Citizens' Coalition to Support and Defend RICO," a lobbying
group that includes Ralph Nader organizations.
   Despite these horror cases, Congress and the Justice
Department insist on keeping RICO on the books. If he runs
for mayor of New York, Mr. Giuliani may find that voters in a
recession will link his criminalizing of capital with the
credit crunch. RICO is not yet dead, but sometimes judges and
voters get the last word.