What's News --
   World-Wide
The electorate's angry, volatile mood was reflected in the
first town to vote, Dixville Notch, where 11 out of 31
registered voters cast ballots for Andre Marrou of the
Libertarian Party, two more votes than the town gave Bush.
   ---
   Russia and the U.S. agreed to discuss a system to provide
early warning of ballistic missile attacks from other
nations, and to hold talks on proposed cuts in long-range
nuclear missiles. Separately, the military chief of the
Commonwealth of Independent States predicted its unified army
would fall apart.
                                                                                                       

   Washington and Moscow squabbled over last week's collision
of two nuclear-powered subs in the Barents Sea. A Russian
aide claimed the U.S. vessel that collided with a sub from
the former Soviet Union was operating secretly in Russian
waters. The U.S. said the subs were in international waters.
   ---
   Evidence in the U.S. and Japan indicates that women with
silicone breast implants are much more likely to have certain
human immune diseases than women as a group, an FDA panel was
told. The panel began meetings to decide whether implants'
use should be curtailed.
   ---
   A senior PLO official confirmed that the Palestinians
would attend next week's Mideast peace talks in Washington,
despite the arrest of two Palestinian delegates in Israel.
Meanwhile, Shiite Muslim guerrillas fired rockets from
southern Lebanon into Israel, and Israel struck back at three
Lebanese towns with an artillery barrage.
   ---
   The Bush administration plans to propose a new regulatory
framework for the emerging biotechnology industry that would
slash rules and spur commercialization of genetically
engineered products. Among the affected products would be new
strains of crops and microbes used to clean coal or produce
fuel.
   ---
   Libya produced two men the U.S. has accused of blowing up
a Pan Am jet in 1988 but insisted they will never be
surrendered for trial in the West. The Libyans, who were
shown to foreign reporters, are described in U.S. and U.K.
indictments as intelligence agents. Libya has opened its own
probe and says the men could be tried there.
   ---
   Irish legislators prepared to review a constitutional ban
on abortions amid mounting criticism over the case of a
14-year-old girl barred from seeking an abortion in Britain.
Prime Minister Reynolds invited opposition leaders to discuss
the issue generally rather than the "tragic circumstances" of
the girl, an alleged rape victim.
   ---
   The EPA has announced plans for a specific timetable to
narrow the scope of two hazardous-waste regulations that
industry officials have targeted as excessively stringent.
   ---
   Punjab braced for today's state legislative elections,
which are viewed as a confrontation between Sikh separatism
and Indian unity. Gunmen shot and killed 19 villagers in
southern Punjab yesterday, and Sikh rebels, who say the act
of casting a ballot would endorse Indian rule, have vowed to
kill the first five people who vote today.
   ---
   A Venezuelan military court charged 33 army officers in
connection with a Feb. 4 failed coup. The officers, mostly
majors, captains and lieutenants, face a maximum prison term
of 28 years. The defense ministry said 300 other officers
would be charged with taking part in the coup.
   ---
   North Korea's Kim Il Sung signed accords that call for a
reconciliation with South Korea and a nuclear arms ban. But
the Seoul government, still suspicious about Pyongyang's
intentions, urged its rival to sincerely implement the
accords, which are to go into effect today when the prime
ministers of the two nations meet.
   ---
   Ivory Coast authorities arrested the country's chief
opposition leader along with hundreds of his supporters after
rioting erupted during an anti-government rally in Abidjan.
The mass arrests came as about 20,000 demonstrators marched
through the capital, waving clubs and hurling rocks at
vehicles and shops, officials said.
   ---
   The U.N. said it believed indiscriminate shelling of
civilians in Somalia's capital had eased following a
U.N.-negotiated cease-fire. But a U.N. official added that
fierce battles were reported on the outskirts of Mogadishu.
Friday's cease-fire called for an immediate halt to fighting
and the signing of a truce agreement by the end of the month.