Who's News:
   SEC Names Peat Marwick's Schuetze
   To Post of Agency's Chief Accountant
   ----
   By Kevin G. Salwen
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The SEC is mandated by Congress to set accounting rules
for U.S. corporations, but it cedes day-to-day authority for
such standards to bodies created by the accounting industry.
In the past two years, SEC Chairman Richard Breeden has
prodded those groups to set standards that would force banks
and thrifts to carry financial products on their books at
current values. Most financial institutions now carry such
stocks and bonds on their balance sheets at cost.
   A 59-year-old Texan who would have been required to retire
from Peat Marwick in 18 months, Mr. Schuetze said yesterday
at a news conference that he plans to press the Financial
Accounting Standards Board into adopting such standards. But
he added that using current values for financial products is
only the first step.
   "We've got to crawl before we walk, walk before we run,"
said Mr. Schuetze. "If we can go further the next year or the
following year, that would be fine."
   Other Washington regulatory agencies, including the
Federal Reserve, have argued against adopting current
accounting, claiming that it could hurt banks and thrifts at
a time when they are fragile. But in naming Mr. Schuetze as
chief accountant, Mr. Breeden shows little sign of letting up
in the fight against what he has called "once-upon-a-time
accounting."
   Mr. Schuetze also said that simplifying accounting rules
would be a top priority for his stay at the agency, which he
estimated at five years. "I'm very much a proponent of
keeping accounting simple," he said, "simpler than it has
been over the past several years."
   As an example, Mr. Schuetze cited lease accounting, in
which corporate financial officers and others are forced to
wade through about a 100-page book to determine accounting
standards. He said he would work with the FASB and other
accounting bodies to try to convince them that it would be in
"everybody's best interest to have simpler rules."
   He said his immediate goal would be to fill four or five
senior accounting positions that have been vacant at the SEC,
which has been actively expanding its accounting staff in
several divisions to help detect fraud.
   In his new job, which begins Jan. 20, Mr. Schuetze will
earn $108,000 a year. He declined to say how much he earns
now, but did say he was making "more than that" at Peat
Marwick. Still, Mr. Schuetze said that "the accounting
profession has been very good to me, and I'd like to put
something back into the profession."
   Mr. Schuetze was a founding member of the FASB in 1973 and
is a former chairman of the American Institute of Certified
Public Accountants' accounting standards executive committee.