International:
   New Russian Economics Minister Expects
   The Ruble to Continue Getting Stronger
   ----
   By Adi Ignatius
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Mr. Nechayev takes control of the Economics Ministry from
Yegor Gaidar, who relinquishes the post of minister of
economics and finance. Mr. Gaidar, the chief architect of
Russia's current economic liberalization, will continue
"overall guidance" of economic policy, said Mr. Nechayev, who
had been Mr. Gaidar's first vice minister.
   The new minister discounted as insignificant several
protest rallies held recently against higher prices,
including a demonstration of some 7,000 protesters in Moscow
on Sunday. "A very difficult period has passed without major
social upheavals," he said. "Various political movements
criticize the government but don't offer any constructive
alternative."
   At the same time, he said, Russia will have to give in to
demands, ranging from easier credit to higher wages, in
certain key sectors. It has been under pressure to do so from
government ministries, enterprises and other interest groups.
For example, he said, Moscow recently yielded to demands for
higher pay from coal miners in the north in Vorkuta. "We had
to make some sacrifices to avoid drastic consequences," he
said.
   But Mr. Nechayev warned miners and others that if they
continue to put excessive pressure on the government,
hyperinflation could result. "I wouldn't like to see the
miners bring this government to its knees," he said.
"Otherwise, the whole economic plan could collapse."
   Mr. Nechayev also warned that an acute credit squeeze in
the next two months will result in a production decline of as
much as 50% in many industries. He predicted that many
workers will be forced to take unpaid leaves to avoid massive
and permanent unemployment.
   Mr. Nechayev said the ruble's recent strengthening, after
months of decline, is one of the "obvious successes of the
government." In the past few days, the ruble has been hard to
obtain and has been trading on markets at 70 to 80 to the
dollar, compared with levels of 200 to the dollar in recent
weeks. He suggested this was a result of the freeing of price
controls on Jan. 2 and hasn't involved any major central bank
intervention.
   The ruble is likely to strengthen to 50 to the dollar
soon, he said. Eventually, "we want to bring the ruble to 20
to 25" to the dollar. But some economists in Moscow expect
the opposite and believe the ruble's recent strengthening is
only temporary.
   Mr. Nechayev said Russia will move ahead quickly with
economic reforms. More prices, including that of milk, will
be freed from state control. The sale of state enterprises
will accelerate, he said. In Moscow, some 170 shops already
have been privatized, he said, and throughout Russia, a
fourth of all retail enterprises have taken steps toward full
privatization.
   The economics minister also said Russia has concluded
several important economic deals with Germany. He said Russia
plans to open several defense plants to German investors for
conversion to nonmilitary uses, including sewing-machine
production. The two sides also are close to an agreement on
the sale of Russian MIG-29 warplanes to Germany.