Technology  Health:
   Diabetes Drug Is Shown to Outperform
   Insulin Shots in Regulating Blood Sugar
   ----
   By David Stipp
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Adult-onset diabetes afflicts an estimated 10 million
Americans. Many cases can be controlled without drugs through
diet and exercise, but about a third of them require insulin
injections and might benefit from insulinotropin. The drug,
discovered in 1986 at Massachusetts General Hospital here,
has been licensed to California Biotechnology Inc., Mountain
View, Calif., which is developing it in collaboration with
Pfizer Inc., New York. Insulinotropin potentially will have
annual sales of $200 million to $400 million, estimates David
K. Stone, analyst with Cowen  Co.
   The drug won't be useful for treating diabetics with the
more severe juvenile-onset, or Type I, diabetes -- their
pancreases don't produce insulin, so insulinotropin can't
stimulate its release in them. But it may eventually displace
a significant portion of injectable-insulin sales, estimated
at more than $500 million annually. Eli Lilly  Co. is the
dominant seller of insulin, which also is sold by Novo
Industri AS of Denmark.
   Insulin induces liver and muscle cells to absorb glucose
from the blood, keeping blood-sugar levels under control as
they rise after a meal. When diabetics inject insulin,
however, its levels don't vary in concert with levels of
glucose. That can cause blood glucose levels to fall too
much, inducing dangerous "hypoglycemic" shock. Moreover,
scientists believe diabetics' wide swings in glucose levels
also cause many of the disease's complications, including
blindness, clogged arteries leading to heart disease, and
kidney damage.
   Animal studies have shown insulinotropin's
insulin-releasing effect falls off in conjunction with a drop
in blood sugar, indicating it can control glucose in a more
natural pattern than insulin injections can, said Joel F.
Habener, who is leading research on insulinotropin at
Massachusetts General Hospital. He added that unlike injected
insulin, insulinotropin doesn't expose muscle and other cells
to frequent doses of insulin -- another source of side
effects, including the breakdown of tissue at injection
sites.
   In the latest study, nine people with Type II diabetes and
two non-diabetic volunteers were given continuous intravenous
doses of insulinotropin while fasting and while eating at the
Boston hospital. During the infusions, their insulin levels
rose by a factor of three but, as hoped, fell as blood
glucose levels did. The results of the study are reported in
the February issue of the journal Diabetes Care.
   "We had no problems with hypoglycemia even with whopping
doses" of insulinotropin, said Dr. Habener. He cautioned,
however, that clinical tests on the drug are expected to
continue for at least two more years before it becomes widely
available to diabetics.
   Ken Luskey, California Biotechnology's director of
diabetes and obesity research, added that Pfizer is
separately conducting Phase II clinical trials with the drug,
aimed at establishing its efficacy. The results of those
tests haven't been disclosed.