Two Worlds:
   Work Ethic Aside,
   Some U.S. Employees
   Still Live Very Well
   ---
   A Look at Families in Detroit,
   Toyota City Shows How
   Americans Stay Ahead
   ---
   But in Japan, More Security
   ----
   By Christopher J. Chipello and Neal Templin
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
With all the controversy swirling lately over the American
work ethic, the circumstances of Detroit's Mr. Dankert and
Toyota City's Mr. Seo illustrate a simple fact: The standard
of living for many U.S. factory workers remains far higher.
Mr. Seo may have greater job security and peace of mind -- GM
could announce as early as today whether it will close Mr.
Dankert's plant -- but by almost every other measure, Mr.
Dankert's quality of life is superior, and would stay so for
a time even if he should be laid off.
   While no two workers' backgrounds are precisely the same,
Messrs. Dankert and Seo are roughly comparable in age,
seniority and work habits. The one difference is that Mr. Seo
has risen to group leader, supervising a crew of seven, while
Mr. Dankert remains a laborer.
   On a recent cold winter day, Mr. Dankert and his wife,
Sandra, sit in the living room of their $140,000 house
watching sports on television. The 40-year-old Mr. Dankert
seems unfazed by the prospect that his plant might soon close
and his job be lost. "We have been hearing the plant will go
down for four years. We have no control over it," he says.
"If it does, it does."
   If so, Mr. Dankert says he is willing to move anywhere in
the country where GM has an opening. He and his wife have
already decided that she will stay in Michigan if he has to
move. They both have family in Michigan and she earns about
$25,000 a year, including overtime, as a supervisor in a
plant that manufactures medicine bottles. Indeed, one reason
the Dankerts live so well is that Mrs. Dankert works. Mrs.
Seo doesn't. Although more Japanese wives are taking jobs
these days, few with young children work full time.
   Thanks to GM's contract with the United Auto Workers, Mr.
Dankert will receive nearly his full salary until September
1993, whether or not he works. But, he says, "I'm not
interested in milking them. I prefer to work."
   What Mr. Dankert takes in stride would cause intense
anxiety in Japan. Over lunch in the Toyota plant's bright new
cafeteria, a member of Mr. Seo's work group recounts with
astonishment a segment from a recent Japanese evening news
show: A manager at a U.S. auto company had lost his job,
prompting his wife to go to work. The U.S. manager's plight
"is unthinkable for us," says the 41-year-old Japanese
worker, Kaoru Yoshida.
   The only time in its 55-year history that Toyota has laid
off workers was in 1950, when postwar economic disruptions
brought the company to the verge of bankruptcy. While
Toyota's profits have dropped sharply during the recent
global slowdown in the auto industry, the only effect on
employment has been reduced overtime, something the in-house
union, the company and the government have all been urging
anyway. In addition, bonuses, which make up about a third of
total pay for Toyota workers, are likely to dip slightly.
   Mr. Seo's work schedule alternates from week to week. One
week he begins at 8 a.m. and finishes after dusk; the next,
he works from 8:30 p.m. to dawn. It is a routine the
42-year-old has followed for the past 24 years.
   These days, he puts in 25 to 30 hours of overtime in a
typical month. According to his boss, Mr. Seo is a hard
worker, but his greatest value as a group leader is his
ability to build team spirit.
   But apart from a traditional commitment to hard work,
structural factors play a role in Japanese work habits. If a
Toyota worker takes time off because he's sick, he doesn't
get paid for the first three days. From the fourth day, he
gets 80% of his pay. This encourages a worker to either show
up for work despite feeling ill or use up paid holidays until
he feels better. Workers do get full pay immediately if they
miss work because of a work-related injury. But some
employees of Toyota and other Japanese auto companies
complain that institutional and cultural pressures cause many
workers to keep plugging away despite nonvisible injuries,
such as back pain or wrist ailments.
   Mrs. Seo says she can't remember her husband's ever having
taken a day off because of sickness. He has never been
seriously ill and doesn't let a run-of-the-mill cold keep him
home.
   Mr. Dankert also works hard, fellow workers say. "He's the
kind of worker foremen want to work for them," says Bob
Harlow, president of the plant's union local. Like Mr. Seo,
Mr. Dankert goes to work when he has a cold. He almost never
takes his full four weeks of vacation.
   He has had sore wrists (diagnosed as carpal tunnel
syndrome) almost since he started working at GM in 1969.
There are days "when it hurts me to pump gas in my car," he
says. Although GM provides five days of paid sick leave a
year, he has taken only about four weeks off work because of
the wrist condition during his years at GM.
   For both families, work in the auto industry has meant
better lives. The Dankerts and the Seos all come from modest
backgrounds. Mr. Dankert's father was a GM worker who died of
a heart attack at age 43. Mr. Dankert remembers getting one
pair of shoes a year as a boy and using cardboard to cover
holes in the sole until the next pair arrived. Mrs. Dankert
grew up a coal miner's daughter in a tiny town in western
Virginia. Her family never went hungry, but she didn't eat
her first restaurant meal until she was a teen-ager.
   Mr. Seo's father operated a stall in a food market and
later worked for a wholesaler in a fish market in Nagoya,
about an hour's drive from Toyota City. Working in the fish
market meant rising as early as 1 a.m. to handle the day's
wares.
   The Dankerts still practice thrift. He saves $200 a week
out of his $737 a week salary, while she saves about $100 a
week. They're trying to pay off his house loan early by
sending an extra $100 with each monthly payment. They paid
cash for their last car, and have no debt on the cabin. Their
22-year-old daughter is married and has moved out of the
house, and their 16-year-old son will probably go to trade
school, which is much less costly than college.
   The Dankerts say they try to buy American-made products
whenever possible. He drives a 1979 Chevrolet pickup and she
a 1989 Chevrolet Cavalier. They also own a 1987 Oldsmobile
Cutlass 442. A few of Mr. Dankert's fellow auto workers drive
Japanese cars to work, something that baffles the Dankerts.
"I think people are going to wake up too late," Mrs. Dankert
laments, "and find they've lost their country."
   Much of what the Seos have has come from Toyota, and
driving anything but a Toyota car would be unthinkable. A
low-rate company mortgage helped the Seos buy their two-story
home in 1980 for 20 million yen (now $157,000). When Mr. Seo
trades in his 10-year-old Toyota Mark II later this year,
he'll buy another with a 20% employee discount and
low-interest loan.
   At home, Yuriko Seo serves visitors tea, crackers and
fresh strawberries, then withdraws to the kitchen until the
talk turns to the household budget. Like most Japanese
housewives, Mrs. Seo controls the purse strings. She spends
about $790 a month on groceries. About $160 a month of Mr.
Seo's salary goes straight into a company savings plan. And
$1,600 from each of his twice-annual bonus payments goes into
the nest egg, with some of the rest used to pay down the
25-year mortgage.
   Like most Japanese children, the Seos' nine-year-old and
12-year-old sons supplement their regular schooling with
afterhours lessons at private schools two or three days a
week, including Saturdays. But Mr. and Mrs. Seo try not to
push too hard. "I want them to learn how to get along in
social groups rather than just getting good grades," says Mr.
Seo.
   On Sundays, the boys, along with their six-year-old
brother, are required to do housework with their parents. The
family lunches at McDonald's, Kentucky Fried Chicken or a
sushi shop, and spends the afternoon at a park or at Toyota's
sprawling sports center in the city's northern hills.
   Neither Mr. Dankert nor Mr. Seo seems to feel much of the
rancor that has surfaced in the recent debate over Japanese
trade practices and American work habits. Mr. Dankert
believes GM is partly to blame for its loss in market share.
The company was hurt by quality problems and look-alike
models during the 1980s, he says. But the quality of GM cars
has now improved to where they are "comparable to Japanese
cars," he says.
   Nor does he blame Japanese companies for taking away
market share. "You can't be bitter," he says. "GM, Ford and
Chrysler had their chance to keep it."
   And Mr. Seo says he understands U.S. anger at recent
criticisms by Japanese politicians. "We've had some terrible
things said about us," he says. "Our tendency is to bow our
heads when someone bashes us. But deep down, anyone gets mad"
when insulted.
   Mr. Seo says the lingering caricature of Japanese workers
as "economic animals" grates on him. He proudly points out
lifestyle changes at Toyota: Fashionably appointed
dormitories are starting to replace the barracks-style
housing Mr. Seo once lived in; there are modern apartment
units for married couples temporarily priced out of the home
market by 1980s land inflation; and tavern tables in nooks
along the assembly lines are available during workers'
10-minute breaks.
   Mr. Seo took his allotted 20 vacation days last year --
something he didn't do until the past three years -- and
spent part of his time off in the mountains with his family.
Yet he's still not fully comfortable with the notion of
leisure. "We need to strive to find ways to have more space
in our lives," he says, but "to change too suddenly can make
people disoriented."
   Despite the advantages the American couple enjoys, there
is one glaring difference: their confidence in the future.
Mr. Seo not only feels sure of continued employment but also
expects his working conditions to continue to improve. Things
look much less certain to the Dankerts. "I worry about
America in general," says Mrs. Dankert as she finishes a meal
of take-out pizza with sausage and pepperoni. "Bob and I can
make it. We might not have this home, we might not have three
cars, but we can make it." Mr. Dankert adds, "I worry for the
kids, because there's nothing out there for them."
   (See related letter: "Letters to the Editor:
"Double-Income Yank Invalidates Comparison" -- WSJ March 18,
1992)
   920224-0119