Your Money Matters:
   Muni Fund Investors Are Making a Big Bet on Rates
   ----
   By Barbara Donnelly
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
But in trying to garner an extra couple of percentage
points of yield, these investors are parting company with
many other bond fund investors. Overwhelmingly, the municipal
fund investors have been buying funds chock-full of long-term
bonds that mature in 25 to 30 years. These are the bonds
whose prices rise and fall the most with changes in interest
rates.
   Yet investors who buy taxable bond funds are doing exactly
the opposite -- sacrificing yield for the safety of
shorter-term funds, which are less sensitive to interest-rate
changes.
   "A lot of money-market investors went into longer muni
funds to keep the yields up on their portfolios and preserve
their income," says William Fish, manager of municipal
research at Donaldson, Lufkin  Jenrette Securities Inc. But
he cautions, "They may not realize how easy it is to
potentially lose principal" when interest rates begin to
climb.
   A one-percentage point spike up in interest rates would
wipe some 12% from the value of long-term municipal bonds,
figures Hugh Lamle, executive vice president at M.D. Sass
Investors Services Inc. In the same event, intermediate-term
municipal bonds that mature in five to 10 years would stand
to lose not much more than 7%; short-term municipals, just 2%
to 4%.
   "Muni investors are so yield-oriented that they forget
about total return," which combines interest income and price
changes, adds Mr. Lamle. "They just get suckered in by the
lure of high yields, without being sophisticated enough to
focus on the risks."
   The contrast in the behavior of the two groups of
bond-fund investors is striking. Investors in taxable U.S.
government-securities and high-grade corporate bond funds
showed a marked aversion to risk last year. They allocated
most of their new investments, $8.6 billion, to short-term
taxable funds, which buy bonds with maturities of one to five
years. That compared with $4 billion that went into
intermediate-term bond funds and a paltry $2 billion to
longterm taxable bond funds, according to data from Lipper
Analytical Services Inc. The figures don't include closed-end
taxable bond funds that trade on stock exchanges.
   By contrast, when it came to municipal-bond funds,
investors put a whopping $18 billion into long-term funds.
That was 12 times as much as they put into short-term
municipal funds, and eight times more than they put into
intermediate funds. (That total doesn't even include the $7
billion of new money in closed-end tax-exempt funds, which
also buy long-term municipals.)
   But in "going long" for yield, muni-fund investors are
exposing themselves to the greatest potential losses of
principal if interest rates rise, as they eventually do when
the economy is operating at full steam.
   That is a significant point for investors to keep in mind
because the rush into long-term municipal-bond funds has been
taking place when long-term yields have shrunk to very skimpy
levels. Currently, highgrade 20-year municipal bonds command
yields of about 6.5%; they briefly sunk to these low levels
in late 1986 and early 1987, before a sharp rebound in
interest rates wiped out 25% of the bonds' value in six
months. Before that, municipal yields hadn't been this low
since 1979-80 -- but tax rates were much higher then, so on a
tax-equivalent basis, today's municipal-bond rates are much
lower.
   "Yields are at historically low levels for recent times. .
. and we know interest rates don't continue in the same
direction forever," says Ian MacKinnon, who heads the
fixed-income group at Vanguard Group of Investment Cos.
"That, combined with the huge flow of investors' money into
the long end of the muni market, creates a nagging concern
that (those muni investors) aren't fully cognizant of the
risks."
   While the amount of money invested in safer, shorter-term
municipal funds did rise smartly last year in percentage
terms, such funds remain a relative backwater in the overall
municipal fund business. Their 4.5% to 5% yields appear too
low to attract broad interest. And because there are
relatively few such short-term funds around, they attract
less attention than long-term municipal funds, and are easy
to overlook.
   There are just 16 short-term municipal funds and 32
intermediate-term municipal funds -- compared with 581
long-term municipal-bond funds. Long-term municipal funds --
with $145.45 billion of total assets -- dominate the
tax-exempt sector, accounting for 92% of all the money
invested in municipal funds. By contrast, only 71% of taxable
bond-fund assets are in long-term funds.
   Vanguard Group and other mutual fund companies are trying
hard to educate investors about interest-rate risk, but
shorter-term funds still sell best among municipal-bond
investors with "higher sophistication and more prudent
selection" than average, says Vanguard's Mr. MacKinnon.
   Another reason long-term municipal-bond funds may be
riskier now than ever is that tax-law changes in 1986 have
driven most banks, insurers and other once-big institutional
players out of the municipal market. For mutual-fund
investors, that means that if fund managers had to dump bonds
to raise cash so they could meet redemptions from
shareholders, there would be fewer potential buyers for the
bonds.
   "Instead of the triad of banks, insurers and individuals
supporting the market, you've got more of a one-legged stool,
with individuals predominating now," buying municipal bonds
both directly and through funds, says Donaldson Lufkin's Mr.
Fish. This lopsided market means "prices would have to fall
more now, on a relative basis, before they'd stabilize" in a
market rout, he adds.
   An extreme version of that scenario was played out in
1987, when a spike in interest rates caused a wave of
municipal-bond fund redemptions that fed on itself, causing
big principal losses to investors.
   Most pros say there is at most a one-in-five chance of a
similar reversal today. But they still say investors should
probably hedge their risks by buying intermediate-term
municipals, and limiting long-term holdings to 50% of bond
portfolios for the next year.
   Mr. Lamle of M.D. Sass is even more conservative. "I'd
stick to intermediates and leave long muni funds alone," he
says. And buying intermediate-term Treasury bonds directly in
the market could be an even better bet right now, he says,
since "they're higher quality and after taxes, (mutual-fund)
fees and expenses, the spread between muni funds and
Treasurys isn't particularly attractive."