REVIEW  OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   Political Pornography-II
Creating a second minority seat in the state to satisfy
Justice is easily done, but only by endangering Democratic
Rep. Charles Rose, a favorite of the House leadership. So to
save Rep. Rose, Democratic bosses in the Legislature allowed
one of Mr. Rose's own staffers to draw bizarre districts that
make no geographic sense.
   District 12 (depicted here in black) is a long snake that
winds its way through central North Carolina for 190 miles,
from Durham to Charlotte, scooping up isolated precincts with
nothing in common save a large number of minority voters (see
accompanying illustration -- WSJ Feb. 4, 1992). For much of
its length, the district is no wider than the Interstate 85
corridor that links the two cities. In one county, northbound
drivers on I-85 would be in the 12th district, but southbound
drivers would be in another. The next county over, the
districts would "change lanes," and southbound drivers would
be in the 12th District. How will candidates campaign in such
a monstrosity? "We'll just have rallies at every exit along
I-85," jokes state Rep. Mickey Michaux.
   The First District is equally senseless. It wanders from
the Virginia border almost to South Carolina. Two of its
parts appear to be connected only by a river, with the banks
on each side in other districts.
   The plan exposes what is wrong with the way districts are
drawn in many states. The new lines were approved by the
Legislature last month only days after their unveiling. There
was little public input, and some Democrats refused to vote
for the plan. Even black House Speaker Daniel Blue is
apologetic about the lines and calls them "ugly."
   High-tech computers now allow the crafting of districts
that are contiguous only in the wildest of imaginations. "At
some point somebody -- probably the U.S. Supreme Court --
will say this is ridiculous," predicts Thad L. Beyle, a
University of North Carolina political scientist. Indeed, if
inkblot maps such as North Carolina's aren't voided, the
principle that officeholders should represent communities
instead of scattered bits of real estate will be in jeopardy.
   Gerrymandering has created a situation akin to the "rotten
boroughs" that plagued Britain 175 years ago. Boundaries
hadn't been redrawn to reflect population changes for
centuries, with the result that some "rotten boroughs" had
few or even no voters at all. Many landowners had lifetime
seats in Parliament, and critics charged that the House of
Commons was merely another House of Lords. It took the
sweeping Reform Act of 1832 to bring fair districts and new
blood to Parliament.
   Something as dramatic may be needed here if American
democracy is to remain effective. The lengths to which
incumbents will go to protect their power and turf know no
bounds. North Carolina is proof of that.