Marketing  Media:
   Cable TV Industry
   Seeks Compromise
   On Regulation Bill
   ----
   By Mark Robichaux
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
A House telecommunications subcommittee is expected to
look at three pending cable regulation bills within the next
month or so. While President Bush has threatened to veto any
bill that reinstates cable regulation -- the industry was
widely deregulated in 1987 -- some consumer groups say that
lawmakers might support the bill because it is considered
pro-consumer.
   "If the cable industry were smart, they would now come to
the bargaining table," says Gene Kimmelman, legislative
director of Consumer Federation of America. "I'd be stunned
if the House did not vote similarly."
   But cable groups insist they have supported compromise all
along. Steven Effros, president of the Community Antenna
Television Association, says, "If a reasonable bill is
written that is not excessively regulatory, it might very
well pass." He describes the Senate bill as "demagoguery in
the highest order," and vows to continue to fight it.
   The cable industry says the government is in no position
to set rates for such programming as MTV, for example. Rates
set too low would crush creation of new programming and
hinder customer service improvements, and monthly cable rates
would increase if cable operators are forced to pay
broadcasters retransmission fees, the industry contends.
   But consumer groups have been pushing for strong
reregulation in response to cable companies' increasing rates
and "retiering," or removing staple programming such as Cable
News Network from their "basic" service. The practice is
aimed at avoiding regulation of what has been considered a
basic tier of service.
   The Senate bill prescribes regulation for the next tier of
service if fewer than 30% of a cable operator's customers
subscribe to only the basic tier. Rates beyond the basic tier
may also be regulated if tiering results in "unreasonable
rates."
   Some observers say the cable industry's best strategy
might be to delay the bill. Martin Franks, a Washington
liaison for CBS, says "If I were Jim Mooney, {president of
the National Cable Television Association} I would tack on
the wall of my office a big large sign that says `Delay.'"
But the association denies that it will attempt to delay the
House vote, and says it will work toward a more modest
version of a cable reregulation bill.
   Some congressional staffers say that a delay might come
if, for example, the House Judiciary Committee decides the
bill falls within its jurisdiction. The committee could hold
hearings on the retransmission consent provision, which
includes copyright issues, part of the committee's
jurisdiction.
   If passed, a House bill would likely go to a conference
committee, which would work to resolve differences in the two
bills.