Bush Planning
   Deregulation
   Campaign Push
   ---
   Broad Attack on U.S. Rules
   For Business May Form
   State of Union Theme
   ----
   By David Wessel
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The effort is being coordinated by White House Counsel
Boyden Gray and Michael Boskin, chairman of the Council of
Economic Advisers. They are working with Vice President Dan
Quayle and his Council on Competitiveness.
   "Given the the state of the economy, given that everyone's
looking at growth, you can't ignore the regulatory side," one
White House official said.
   The scope of the initiative hasn't been determined yet.
But some of the options mentioned in documents circulating in
the White House include asking Congress for legislation that
would give Mr. Bush power to ease regulations and seeking to
assert more White House control over independent regulatory
agencies.
   Less-controversial efforts also are being considered,
including reviewing old regulations, examining the
possibility of streamlining regulations within existing
statutes and searching for ways to remove red tape that may
hamper economic growth, according to officials familiar with
the project.
   As part of the effort, White House staff members have
enlisted outsiders to write op-ed pieces calling attention to
the problems caused by regulation. William Niskanen, a former
Reagan economic adviser, said he was contacted and asked to
endorse a moratorium on new regulations until the economy
returns to health.
   Officials said the campaign would augment the efforts of
the competitiveness council headed by Mr. Quayle, partly by
giving it more staff.
   The council already has made its mark as a counterweight
to the government's regulatory machinery. It was instrumental
in persuading the Environmental Protection Agency to drop a
proposed regulation that would have required municipal waste
incinerators to recycle at least 25% of trash destined for
burning. And it, among others, has pushed the Food and Drug
Administration to speed up approval of new drugs.
   The new White House initiative has been under discussion
for some time, but it was only formalized recently.
   ---
   Rose Gutfeld contributed to this article.