Global View:
   Post-Communism's Do-It-Yourself Needs
   ----
   By George Melloan
The big question, of course, is how much advice do the
Russians, Ukrainians, Poles et al really need. They have had
their fill of new economic plans designed by their communist
masters and the very expression "economic reform," uttered so
often and so vacuously by Mikhail Gorbachev, is enough to
make them gag. Economic freedom, not plans, is what they
mainly want.
   Economists are good at responding to demand, however.
Despite the best efforts of the Marxists, statists and other
contraption builders in college economics departments, most
American economists believe in markets. It doesn't take much
exposure to a Marxist department head to persuade a graduate
student that economists were never meant to rule the world.
   My own role here was in a panel discussion titled, "The
Road Back from Serfdom, a Tribute to Friedrich A. Hayek." The
subject and speakers were chosen by Samantha Carrington, a
professor at the University of California-Santa Barbara who
learned in her native Iran how authoritarian systems destroy
human creativity. At an early age she headed for the U.S. and
economic freedom. It's no accident that Friedrich Hayek,
whose book "The Road to Serfdom" in 1947 defined the
indivisible connection between political and economic
freedom, is one of her favorite philosophers.
   Other members of the panel were Ron McKinnon of Stanford,
whose analytical works have graced these pages; Abram Bergson
of Harvard, whose research long ago exposed the inefficiency
of the Soviet economy, and Janos Kornai of Harvard, a man who
learned the problems of communism firsthand in Hungary. The
British philosopher Sir Karl Popper, 89 and an early friend
of the 92-year-old Hayek, sent along a paper to be read by
one of his young associates.
   Sir Karl observed that Karl Marx's assertions on the
destructiveness of private capitalism were simply wrong. Yet
the Marxist drive to obliterate capitalism attained
widespread intellectual support and, ultimately, great
political power. Marxism was so fashionable by the time Hayek
was writing his most important works in the 1930s and 1940s
that it required moral courage to challenge all those
intellectuals who believed that people like themselves, given
sufficient power, could deliver "social justice." Having
positioned themselves on the side of the angels, Hayek's
adversaries described him as an enemy of the people -- merely
because he argued that equality of opportunity is just, but
attempts by government to create equality of result would
lead to tyranny.
   Now that the horrors of Soviet Marxism and its gulags and
KGB thought control specialists have come to light, only
Marxist diehards publicly challenge Hayek's assertions.
Indeed, Sir Karl argues that communism destroyed itself by
suppressing honest debate; it collapsed from the weight of
its own lies.
   But what about the "Road Back from Serfdom?" It was
apparent some time ago that real reform could not happen
until communism had totally collapsed. But even a transition
from statism to laissez faire requires public policy. Some of
the new post-communism leaders of Eastern Europe, such as
Czechoslovakia's highly respected Vaclav Klaus, are
themselves Hayekians, but they must operate in a political
environment. The old statists are chortling over the new
"chaos," but wiser people know open and free political and
economic systems always appear to be chaotic as debate rages
over necessary adaptations to changing conditions.
   How does one "privatize, marketize and monetize" wrecked
economies? That there will be plenty of western advice is
evidenced by the fact that U.S. Secretary of State James
Baker will convene an international conference in Washington
nine days from now to try to "coordinate" western aid
efforts. Money packages always come with instructions on use.
   All good economists agree that marketization requires
first of all a rule of law protecting private ownership;
people can't make efficient markets in things they don't own.
As to money, Samantha Carrington proposed a new dollar-backed
ruble to replace the existing one, which she believes will be
inflated out of existence. To bypass the state, she makes the
radical proposal of issuing the new ruble directly to all
citizens of the former U.S.S.R. as a means of restoring
liquidity and capital.
   Jeffrey Sachs of Harvard, Poland's principal outside
adviser, discussed the knotty problem of privatizing huge
state-owned industries. He proposed that workers and managers
be given minority ownership to win their backing for
privatization and to give them incentives for improvement.
Another large block of shares could go to public pension
funds and the like. This is a departure from the idea of
issuing vouchers or shares in industries to the public in
general. But it too has problems. Worker ownership
complicates the task of trimming work forces and might also
build a large political constituency in favor of continued
state subsidies, retarding restoration of sound fiscal and
budgetary policies.
   Yet privatizing the dinosaurs fortunately is not the only
game in town. As both Ron McKinnon and Janos Kornai stressed,
economies are built from the ground up, not the top down. New
businesses already have sprouted everywhere, over one million
each in Poland and the former East Germany. Mainly, all the
government has to do is legalize private ownership, sell off
shops and commercial space and get out of the way. Human
initiative, those famous "animal spirits," do the rest.
Millions of eastern Europeans are trying to emulate "the
American dream," even as the interventionist U.S. Congress is
doing what it can to kill it.
   Which, of course, is the sad note. As eastern Europe tries
to make its way back from serfdom, western policy makers are
not setting the best possible examples. Maybe the economists
here should have devoted less time to Europe and more to the
problems of George Bush.