Democrats Seek
   House Support
   For Tax Cuts
   ---
   Republicans Predict Veto,
   Say They Won't Change
   Bush's Seven-Point Plan
   ----
   By Jackie Calmes and John Harwood
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
GOP meetings continued late yesterday, however, and it's
unclear whether the Republican strategy will change in view
of Mr. Bush's weak showing in the New Hampshire primary. His
failure to include the proposed increase in the personal
exemption in his emergency "action plan" was lambasted in New
Hampshire by GOP rival Patrick Buchanan and Democrats alike.
   At the White House session early in the day, "the clear
consensus was we can't outbid the Democrats when they control
the Congress," said Rep. Vin Weber of Minnesota. "We could
beef up the capital-gains tax cut, we could make it more
attractive to real estate interests, we could put in the
middle-class tax cut, but no incentive we could offer would
help us win the vote."
   Instead, Republicans decided if they couldn't beat the
Democrats, they'd blast them. The GOP lawmakers condemned the
Democratic plan for raising taxes on upper-income individuals
to pay for a minimal tax cut aimed at the middle class. The
president's proposed personal-exemption increase, which the
Republicans insist they still support for later action, is no
more generous, however, and less so for some lower-income
taxpayers.
   "We see this whole first round as just a charade," said
Rep. Newt Gingrich of Georgia, the second-ranking House GOP
leader. He predicted Mr. Bush would veto the Democratic
proposal if it reached his desk.
   The Republican attack came from several fronts. White
House spokesman Marlin Fitzwater charged among other things
that the proposal "has little if any economic stimulus."
Separately, Treasury Secretary Nicholas Brady hurriedly
called in reporters to complain that the Democratic draft
would boost the budget deficit by more than $30 billion over
the first three years and trigger automatic spending cuts. He
noted that even former Sen. Paul Tsongas, the Democratic
front-runner in the New Hampshire primary, has said he would
"veto the Democrats' own plan."
   Meanwhile, House Democratic leaders braced for today's
party caucus, which was called to gauge reaction to the plan
agreed to last week among Democrats on the tax-writing Ways
and Means Committee. While many Democrats expect their side
to remain united, grumblings about the proposal are
potentially serious. In particular, some lawmakers are upset
that the plan provides a temporary tax cut for individuals
but a permanent one-percentage-point rate reduction for
corporations. These lawmakers think it should be the other
way around.
   "Of the Democratic members I talked to, every one
expressed some degree of anxiety about its provisions," House
Budget Committee Chairman Leon Panetta of California said.
"It's very possible that no tax bill passes," he added.
"Members may feel that the Democratic package has political
traps that they want to avoid and the Republican package
favors the wealthy and isn't paid for.
   Mr. Bush's plan to stimulate the economy centers on his
proposal to cut the tax on capital gains, or profits on the
sale of assets, from 28% to 15.4%. The plan also would allow
businesses to take an extra 15% depreciation allowance on new
equipment purchases this year, restore "passive loss"
deductions on rental properties for some real-estate
entrepreneurs, give a $5,000 tax credit to first-time home
buyers and allow some early withdrawals from Individual
Retirement Accounts for first homes, major medical expenses
and college.
   As an alternative, Democrats on the Ways and Means
Committee agreed to a package that includes the corporate
taxrate cut to 33%, a more generous passiveloss deduction, a
different capital-gains tax reduction, and the IRA withdrawal
provision. It doesn't include the home buyers' credit. The
plan's centerpiece is a proposal from Ways and Means Chairman
Dan Rostenkowski (D., Ill.) to give families a tax credit of
up to $400 in each of the next two years; the credit is aimed
at workers, as the amount is tied to a taxpayer's payroll-tax
liability.
   The package, which would cost an estimated $93 billion
over six years, would be financed through higher taxes on
upper-income taxpayers. The tax cuts for business and
investors seemed to have secured the support of conservative
Democrats, who otherwise might defect to support the
president's package. But those same provisions for economic
growth bother some liberals, who make up the majority of the
Democratic caucus. They fear the package may be too generous
on the business side and not enough so for individual
taxpayers.
   "I have some concern about the merit of some of the growth
proposals, concern that they could obscure the message of
middle-class tax relief," said Rep. Robert Wise of West
Virginia, chairman of the liberal Democratic Study Group,
after group leaders met yesterday about the package. "This
can be improved," he added.
   Some liberals want a middle-class tax cut to focus on
families with children, by providing a credit for each child,
and they want any tax relief to be permanent. At the same
time, they want to limit the corporate reduction to two
years; that's what Rep. Benjamin Cardin of Maryland proposed
unsuccessfully when the Ways and Means Democrats met
privately last week, and lobbyists for organized labor are
urging the same thing.
   Other Democrats, especially those from Rust Belt areas,
want some sort of investment credit targeted to heavy
industry. "If it were my doing, I wouldn't cut the corporate
tax," said one high-ranking House Democrat. "I would target
where I want the tax cut to go."
   In the corporate community, meanwhile, the Democratic
draft has caused a rift. Some capital-intensive companies are
lobbying for an investment-tax credit, while other companies
are lining up behind the Democrats' proposed rate reduction.
The Tax Reform Action Coalition, a broadbased business lobby
that was pivotal in helping Rep. Rostenkowski shape the tax
system's overhaul in 1986, is concerned that a corporate rate
cut will come at the expense of some of its members. Owners
of small Subchapter S corporations pay taxes as individuals;
under the Democrats' plan, they'd be hit with higher taxes to
help fund the lower corporate rate. "We think their
alternative is terrible," said D.J. Gribbin, a tax lobbyist
for the National Federation of Independent Business.
   Some Democrats are chagrined that the party is offering
its own capital gains provision after several years of
lampooning Mr. Bush's proposal as a giveaway to the rich.
Moreover, the Democratic alternative would apply only to
newly purchased assets, so it wouldn't benefit those people
many Democrats have professed to want to help-older taxpayers
who have long-held homes or farms to sell.
   Instead, the two-pronged provision would allow taxpayers
to avoid paying taxes on the portion of their profits from
asset sales that is due to inflation; the assets would have
to be held at least a year. The other part would allow
investors in certain small companies to exclude 50% of their
gain from taxes if they hold the stock for at least five
years.
   In the end, whatever else Congress and Mr. Bush might be
able to agree on, they are likely to collide over the
question of higher taxes to pay for the plan. Sen. Bill
Bradley (D., N.J.) predicts the Senate, too, will vote for
tax increases on top earners along with spending cuts to
finance its bill. Sen. Bradley is a member of the Finance
Committee, which begins drafting its own version next week.
"I would prefer not to raise people's taxes to restore
various loopholes," he said, "because the taxes are always
going to be on more people than anybody supposes when they
start."
   ---
   Rick Wartzman contributed to this article.