Foreign Exchange:
   Dollar Rally Ends as Currency Traders
   Again Focus on Economic Fundamentals
   ----
   By John van Rosendaal
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
In late New York trading, the dollar was quoted at 1.5160
marks, down from 1.5435 marks late Friday. Sterling was
trading at $1.8825, up 1.8% from 1.8490.
   The U.S. currency also was changing hands at 123.35 yen,
down from 124.65 yen late Friday. The dollar's most recent
close in that territory against the Japanese currency was
123.83 yen on Jan. 3, 1989. The dollar dropped to an intraday
low of 123.35 yen at 3:47 p.m. EST, a level not seen since
November 1988, when the dollar fell to 121.18 yen.
   In the first active trading day of the new year, many
participants sold the dollar, as they focused their attention
once again on fundamental factors undermining the currency,
especially the weak U.S. economy and wide interest-rate
differentials between the U.S. and its major trading partners
in Europe. Lower U.S. interest rates make dollar-based
investments less attractive to overseas investors.
   Investors then felt compelled to unwind long, or
overbought, dollar positions built up during the pre-weekend
rally, observers said. A long position in a currency is a bet
that it will rise in value.
   "The real reason {for yesterday's drop} is that the market
went home long" over the weekend, said Joseph Cambria,
foreign exchange manager at Banque Paribas in New York. "It's
basically a reversal of last week."
   The dollar was "progressively softer," said Alexis
McCarthy, a corporate foreign exchange trader at Banque
Indosuez, New York.
   Mr. Cambria suggested that the dollar's descent started
after last week's buying spree found no follow-through in
Asia and Europe yesterday. But John Lyman, senior customer
dealer at Bank of Tokyo, New York, said the slide actually
got its start Friday, when the dollar failed to breach
resistance at 1.5500 marks early in the New York afternoon.
   Late Monday in New York, traders took the dollar to new
intraday lows as they tested support levels, Ms. McCarthy
said.
   The market also is discounting pressure on the dollar
against the yen ahead of U.S. President Bush's planned
arrival today in Japan, she said. Mr. Bush and Japanese Prime
Minister Kiichi Miyazawa are expected to try to boost the
value of the yen against the dollar during talks this week.
   With the market watching economic fundamentals again, the
dollar is likely to weaken further, especially against
European currencies, traders said.
   "The interest-rate differential is far too compelling,"
Mr. Cambria said of the spread between U.S. and European
rates.
   Traders predict the dollar will continue its decline
against the yen. The U.S. unit is trending toward 120.00 yen,
said Bank of Tokyo's Mr. Lyman, which he attributed to
Japan's favorable current account picture and trade surplus.
   In early trading in Tokyo Tuesday, the dollar was trading
at 1.5175 marks, down from 1.5358 marks in Tokyo Monday. The
U.S. currency also was trading at 123.50 yen, down from
124.40 yen.
   Looking back, last week's rally wasn't warranted by
underlying factors, said Robin Cheung, a vice president at
Unibank A/S, New York. The dollar largely benefited from a
weakness of the mark, which softened on fears of possible
turmoil in former Soviet republics where prices on most
consumer goods were freed.
   Germany, and thus the mark, is seen as particularly
vulnerable to problems in the new Commonwealth of Independent
States because of its huge debt exposure and its proximity to
several members.
   But with no food riots so far, the threat to the German
currency has diminished, Mr. Cheung said, although he added
that it still overhangs the mark in trading against other
European currencies. Mr. Cambria of Banque Paribas, however,
said only "serious riots" would have an impact.
   Over the weekend, Western creditor nations of the former
Soviet Union agreed to allow the eight republics to suspend
certain debt payments until the end of 1992. The agreement
was said to involve debt totaling $3.2 billion.
   Meanwhile, the market didn't take a clue from the latest
U.S. auto sales, as results pointed to a mixed performance.
The figures for late December, showing sales at a
7.1-million-unit annual rate, weren't helping the dollar, Ms.
McCarthy said, partly because the higher sales might have
been caused by heavy rebates.