LEISURE  ARTS:
   On Records: The New Crop of Pop Releases
   ----
   By Jim Fusilli
Painful yet edifying, intelligent and valuable, "Magic and
Loss" is a superior work, an affirming elegy that celebrates
the spiritual value of memory and the boundlessness of
friendship and love; it is an album to share now and later.
With "Magic and Loss," Reed moves his artistry to another
plane.
   The singer Enya, having scored unexpected success with her
previous album, "Water Mark" (Reprise), returns to its style
with her latest, "Shepherd Moons" (Reprise), her third. Her
voice, reedy and under heavy rein, is swaddled in
electronics; at times, it is indistinguishable from its
accompanying synthesizers. Despite a couple of songs that
frolic with a Gaelic lilt, there is an eerie sameness to most
of the dozen tracks; tranquil, atmospheric, they are
unintrusive and relaxing. At best, they are appealing
splashes of sound; at worse, they beg to serve as the
soundtrack for a literal adaptation of a three-hankie romance
novel.
   On the other hand, Emmylou Harris is as natural a singer
as there is, and though it contains songs by Steve Earle,
Bruce Springsteen and John Fogerty, her latest live
recording, "Emmylou Harris and the Nash Ramblers at the
Ryman" (Reprise), is a bouquet of traditional country music.
The Nash Ramblers -- a quartet of string players who
alternate on mandolin, fiddle, dobro, banjo, upright bass,
guitars, adding honeyed harmony vocals over Larry Atamanuik's
"acoustic" drumming -- set the tone for a sound that, as
Harris says of the Ryman Auditorium, is laced with hillbilly
dust. Harris is in typically fine voice, sweet, steady,
emotional, as she pays tribute to her idol Bill Monroe on
several cuts, including his classic "Get Up John." "Where
would we be without Mr. Monroe?" she asks. "Guess Things
Happen That Way" chugs along, fed by Al Perkins's dobro, and
the a cappella version of "Calling My Children Home"
resonates, with Roy Huskey Jr. holding down the bottom end.
   The Bill Frisell Band -- Hank Roberts on cello, Kermit
Driscoll on bass, the great Joey Baron on drums and Frisell
on guitars -- makes music that defies easy classification,
and such is the case on its latest, "Where in the World?"
(Elektra Musician). The 10 tracks are sketches that go
delightfully awry: an offbeat folk tune that evolves happily
until Roberts injects a touch of doom; an African-influenced
number that threatens to lose its center; a hypnotic ballad
that hurdles at a dizzying pace; a growling guitar that
sounds as if it was recorded in a cavern on the way to hell.
Under it all, Baron plays the unexpected; he is a very
interesting drummer, investing each part of his kit with its
own smirking personality. As for Frisell, his sound is
defined by a peculiar phrasing on strings that might be made
of rubber; he moves cautiously, calmly (though always
ominously), then suddenly comes a piercing white wail, an
electric squeal, a jazz riff, the plink-plink of a banjo, a
blast of feedback.
   Nirvana's album "Nevermind" (Geffen) is so appealing --
with its savvy variety of sounds and textures, impish wit,
Kurt Cobain's versatile vocals, and lyrics that portray
teenage angst and ennui in a way that seems achingly familiar
and yet completely foreign at the same time -- and has hung
near the top of the charts for so long, that other
high-energy post-punk bands may gain a wider, mainstream
audience by association. Two such banks are Pearl Jam (like
Nirvana, based in Seattle) and Ned's Atomic Dustbin. Pearl
Jam's "Ten" (Epic) is a bit more ominous, a bit more metallic
than "Nevermind," but with the same potency and craft. Eddie
Vedder is an effective vocalist, surly and bold, and Mike
McCready on guitar revives the glory days of the wah-wah
pedal. Under the bombast, Jeff Ament is a melodic bassist. In
brief, a great album.
   Far less ferocious than "Ten," "God Fodder" (Columbia) by
Ned's Atomic Dustbin is high-energy U.K. pop, with a persona
that smacks of the toothy glee that probably pre-dates Peter
 Gordon, as sheets of sound, frenetic drumming and pumping
bass blend over cheery vocals. In brief, an album for people
who miss A Flock of Seagulls.