Law:
   Levi Tries to Round Up Counterfeiters
   ----
   By Carrie Dolan
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
"They've crossed the threshold," says Dave Saenz, Levi's
special counsel in charge of security. "The typical consumer
would not be able to detect that they are buying
counterfeits." The fakes bear labels saying that they're made
in the U.S. and proclaiming that their "colored tab and
stitched pocket design are registered trademarks to help you
identify garments made only by Levi Strauss  Co."
   "Only someone well-versed in the construction and
engineering" of Levi's could tell the difference, Mr. Saenz
says. There are a few identifying marks on the real McCoys,
but Levi doesn't want to tell consumers what they are for
fear of tipping its hand to counterfeiters. "If we make it
public, it will be duplicated next week," Mr. Saenz says.
(One difference is that real Levi labels note they are "made
from recycled paper.")
   Though the fake Levi's look nearly identical, the company
contends they may fall apart at the seams. "After a few
washes, belt loops fall off, rivets rust, and shrinkage
control is not what it should be," says Mr. Saenz. Levi
contends that poor-quality jeans will hurt its reputation.
   Counterfeiters are trying to cash in on the huge demand
for Levi jeans overseas. Though fakes have been seized in 31
countries, most are destined for the booming European market,
where Levi's are a status symbol, commanding up to $100 a
pair. In 1990 alone, the company's sales in Europe, where
Levi sells mostly jeans, rose 55%. But Levi can't meet
world-wide demand for its best-selling button-fly "501"
jeans, most of which are manufactured in the U.S.
   Counterfeiters are eager to take up the slack. To combat
them, Levi has spent about $2 million on more than 600
investigations, relying on a network of informants in Asia
and Europe and trying to build paper trails on the middlemen
who drive the market.
   Such investigation isn't without hazard. Mr. Saenz, Levi's
chief jeans detective in the field, recently recovered from a
bout of hepatitis he said was caught in the line of duty. In
Italy, the company's security people have received death
threats from illicit jeans dealers. One suspect, apprehended
in Detroit, said he formerly trafficked in drugs but switched
to pants smuggling because it was less dangerous and nearly
as lucrative.
   Other companies, including International Business Machines
Corp., have battled counterfeiters in China. A survey last
year by the Washington-based International Anticounterfeiting
Coalition found counterfeit apparel, shoes, watches, toys and
computers being produced in China, both for export and for
sale within the country. In some cases, counterfeit goods had
been sold as the real thing to Chinese universities and
government departments.
   "China has enormous capacity to produce high-quality
goods," says Thomas Bauch, Levi's general counsel, and with
the government loosening planning controls, factories now
have more autonomy. Levi says people falsely claiming to be
its representatives sign deals with factory managers, then
arrange for the goods to be purchased in other countries.
   Because many Western customs officials now know that real
Levi's aren't made in China, counterfeiters have shipped
their goods through Panama and taken them across the Mexican
border and even overland through Eastern Europe to disguise
their origin. Tracking down the fakes that make it through to
Europe is difficult because distribution there is dominated
by "Mom and Pop" outlets that sell small numbers of several
brands.
   But Levi's efforts have resulted in a number of lawsuits.
Last month, in its biggest case yet, Levi filed suit against
two people it says tried to "devise strategies to conduct and
implement a world-wide counterfeiting network." In the
complaint, filed in the U.S. District Court for Northern
Texas, Levi alleges that Michael Kelley and Herbert Hsu of De
Soto, Texas, placed an order for two million pairs of phony
stonewashed 501 jeans to be made by a Chinese factory for
about $5 a pair.
   Mr. Hsu couldn't immediately be reached for comment. Mr.
Kelley denies the charges, saying his company is a small
venture that does "whatever makes money," including selling
T-shirts and exporting powdered milk to Aruba. He says Mr.
Hsu was "our agent in China" but no longer works for the
company.
   In tracking down that case, Levi used Hong Kong
investigators who tipped off Chinese officials about a
factory where fake Levi's were being made. The authorities
raided Tianjin Garment Factory No. 7 and seized about 100,000
pairs of pants. (Levi doesn't know how many, if any, of the
bogus jeans made it to market.) The confiscated jeans are
being "de-labeled" in China, with local workers "picking the
stitching out of the pockets, removing the tabs and sanding
the Levi marks off each button," says Mr. Bauch.
   Trademark law is less than a decade old in China, and the
concept of such protection isn't always clear to workers. But
Levi says cooperative Chinese officials have closed some
factories producing counterfeit jeans and fined managers. One
manager had to sign a "self-criticism statement" that said:
"Due to the attraction of money, I traded in counterfeit
trademark labels, which were made in Macao and infringed the
rights of others unintentionally. After having been taught by
my comrades at the Administration of Industry and Commerce, I
understand my wrongs, and I will improve my mental pursuits
and will not repeat my error."
   Though he denies any wrongdoing, Mr. Kelley, one of the
defendants in the most recently filed case, says there's a
thriving market for Levi's. "I get faxes all the time" from
independent brokers offering to sell Levi's, he says. He
doesn't get involved, he says, because the jeans "never get
shipped."
   One person he knows put up a bond for 3.9 million pairs of
Levi's to be delivered in Miami, Mr. Kelley says, but when he
went to pick them up, "there was nothing there." Lots of
people think there's big money in Levi's, he says. "They all
think they're going to make a million overnight. They live in
a fantasy world."
   In the photograph accompanying this article, the jeans on
the left are counterfeit Levi's (see accompanying
illustration -- WSJ Feb. 19, 1992).