Foreign Exchange:
   Dollar Rally Expected to End, Leaving
   Currency to Continue Orderly Decline
   ----
   By Sharon R. King
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
The result probably will be a downward trend in the dollar
in the near term, analysts believe.
   Late Friday, a short-covering rally against the mark ran
out of steam after the dollar hit an intraday high of 1.550
marks shortly after noon EST. After the short covering and
dollar purchases by fund managers subsided, the dollar lost
some ground in light trading.
   Late Friday in New York, the dollar was trading at 1.5435
marks, up from 1.5310 marks late Thursday. The dollar also
was quoted at 124.65 yen, up slightly from 124.45 yen late
Thursday.
   In early trading in Tokyo Monday, the dollar was trading
at 1.5395 marks, up from 1.5173 marks in Tokyo on Dec. 31,
the last day of trading there before the New Year's holiday.
The U.S. currency was trading at 124.15 yen, down from 125.25
yen in Tokyo on Dec. 31.
   The weakness in the German currency on Friday came as
several members of the newly created Commonwealth of
Independent States followed Russia's lead and moved to
deregulate consumer prices in an effort to boost production
and generate a free market economy. Their actions raised
concerns that widespread civil unrest could erupt in the
former Soviet republics and that Germany, with its large debt
exposure to some of the republics, could be hurt.
   But the mark should soon stabilize as the market awaits
the outcome of the republics' moves, says William O'Grady,
financial and energy futures analyst for A.G. Edwards in St.
Louis.
   "There is some concern about what's going on in the old
Soviet Union, but those things weren't unexpected. We knew
they were going to deregulate prices and we knew that when
they did it, it wouldn't be pretty," Mr. O'Grady says.
   President Bush's meeting in Tokyo this week is expected to
have little effect on the dollar, which is largely expected
to stabilize against the yen ahead of Friday's employment
report.
   Expectations that President Bush will push for a stronger
yen to help narrow the U.S.-Japanese trade imbalance caused a
run-up in the yen last week. But analysts predict that little
concrete news will emerge from the talks, leaving the dollar
trading against the yen near current levels.
   "I don't think there's going to be a great deal of drama
from Bush's visit," says Alfonso Alejo, a senior corporate
foreign exchange dealer at Mitsui Taiyo Kobe Bank Ltd.
   Instead, the week's economic data releases -- such as the
late December U.S. auto sales reports due out today, the
December producer price index scheduled Thursday and Friday's
December unemployment report -- will have more impact on the
dollar's direction, Mr. Alejo says.
   For the most part, the data are expected to show weakness
in the economy and should push the dollar lower, Mr. Alejo
notes. "I don't think the market's really in a hurry to take
the dollar higher," he adds. "I think the downside is still a
greater danger. Fundamentally there's no reason to support a
dollar rally."
   Mr. O'Grady of A.G. Edwards notes that "if you expect
unemployment to rise, I don't see how you can be bullish in
the face of that. Maybe the Japanese would like to see the
dollar at 120 yen and Bush wouldn't mind; but if they make
that statement on Monday we'll be there on Tuesday. I think
everybody would like to see a much more orderly decline."
   A weaker dollar could see downside resistance between
1.5250 marks and 1.5000 marks, several analysts say. The
dollar also could see its trough at 122.00 yen, notes Jeff
Mondschein, managing director of foreign exchange for
Continental Bank N.A.
   But any weakness in the dollar brought about by negative
economic reports could trigger an opportunity for investors
to purchase cheap dollars, says Albert Soria, first vice
president and foreign exchange manager at the U.S. affiliate
of Kansallis Osake Pankki, of Finland.
   Overall, Mr. Soria expects the dollar to move higher this
week, testing 1.5600 marks on additional gains from the
covering of oversold dollar positions. He adds, "There are
still some substantial short positions that haven't been
covered yet."
   However, one wild card that could greatly influence the
dollar's near term direction is European investor sentiment,
analysts caution.
   In early December, those players were largely bullish on
the dollar. But by midmonth, their view had changed, and they
began dumping the U.S. currency before closing their books
for the end of the year, several dealers said.
   Because European investors were mostly absent from the
market last week, it is difficult to gauge what stance they
will take toward the dollar when they return to their desks,
the dealers add.