Law:
   BCCI Depositors Say Hill  Knowlton
   Misled Them and Charge `PR Fraud'
   ----
   By Jonathan M. Moses
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Because public relations firms are in the business of
trying to place even unpopular clients in a positive light,
the firms have much to fear from suits claiming that they
should pay whenever anyone has relied to his or her detriment
on PR.
   "If markets are influenced by the flow of information, as
seems to be increasingly the case, then it seems to me (that)
people in our industry are going to be exposed to these
lawsuits," warned John P. Scanlon, a partner in the New York
office of Sawyer Miller Group, a PR and consulting firm.
   In the BCCI lawsuit, a group of depositors allege that
more than 50 defendants, including the PR firm, misled them
about the financial condition and legitimacy of the bank. The
depositors claim they relied on such false representations
and thus were the victims of PR fraud. As a result, the
depositors want treble damages for the money they will lose
now that BCCI has been shut down by banking authorities
around the world. Hill  Knowlton, a unit of WPP Group PLC,
London, has denied any wrongdoing.
   Hill  Knowlton represented BCCI until the middle of 1990,
when the bank pleaded guilty to federal money-laundering
charges. Until the summer of 1991, the firm also represented
First American Bankshares Inc., a Washington bank that BCCI
has admitted it illegally controlled. In the lawsuit, filed
last month in Los Angeles federal court, Hill  Knowlton is
accused of "helping to circulate many of the false
statements" about BCCI.
   The depositors' legal complaint is vague, for the most
part, about specific acts Hill  Knowlton allegedly
performed. But it does accuse the firm of helping to
circulate and publicize false financial statements and of
misleading the public when it helped draft a reply to a
Regardie's magazine article linking BCCI to First American.
Frank Mankiewicz, Hill  Knowlton's vice chairman, says that
the firm simply helped First American circulate a response
that the bank itself had prepared.
   The suit by depositors is part of a broader effort to find
responsible parties, including accountants and other
professional advisers, who might have the resources to help
pay the claimants. BCCI isn't expected to be able to pay more
than 10 cents on the dollar to its creditors.
   Because few, if any, such suits have been filed in the
past, it's unclear what level of responsibility PR firms
might bear for any false information they disseminate. (True
representations would be protected under the First
Amendment.) No precise legal formula exists, although lawyers
say there may be analogies in laws guiding advertising
agencies and securities firms.
   The code of professional standards approved by the Public
Relations Society of America says that PR firms shouldn't
"knowingly disseminate false or misleading information." But
judges may find that too lenient a standard, lawyers say.
   A stricter standard exists in the Federal Trade Commission
rules for advertising agencies, said Richard Kurnit, a lawyer
at Frankfurt, Garbus, Klein  Selz, New York, who represents
advertising and public relations firms. Those rules state
that an ad agency must have a "reasonable basis" for the
truth of the information it puts in an advertisement.
   "If PR firms are strictly liable for the words a client
wants spoken, that would be awful," said Chad E. Milton, vice
president and assistant general counsel of Media/Professional
Insurance Inc. Mr. Milton, whose Kansas City firm insures
Hill  Knowlton, said it would be "an enormous burden" on PR
firms if they had to prove everything their client told them.
   Mr. Mankiewicz, who served as press secretary to the late
Sen. Robert F. Kennedy, said his presumption is that "people
have a right to be heard."
   William S. Lerach, lawyer in the Los Angeles office of
Milberg Weiss Bershad Specthrie  Lerach, who named Hill 
Knowlton as a defendant in the depositors' suit, said he
didn't believe a free-speech defense would stand in a fraud
case. "A PR firm has no more First Amendment right to lie
than BCCI," Mr. Lerach said.