`Mystery' Buyer
   Of Famed Building
   Identified at Last
   ---
   But Why Oliver Grace Wants
   Empire State Building
   Still Puzzles New York
   ----
   By Neil Barsky
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Mr. Grace, a second cousin to W.R. Grace  Co. Chairman J.
Peter Grace, appears to have gone to some lengths to remain
anonymous.
   Firms involved with the sale, including seller Prudential
Insurance Co. of America and its adviser, investment banker
Salomon Brothers, signed agreements pledging not to disclose
his name. Even executives from Empire State Building
Associates, the limited partnership that holds the lease on
the building, weren't told the buyer's identity.
   "Mr. Grace was firm that there be no public disclosure or
discussion about his identity," said one individual who
confirmed that Mr. Grace is the buyer.
   Real estate records list the buyer as "E.G. Holding, care
of Oliver Grace." The price paid was $40 million, on Nov. 27,
1991.
   Mr. Grace himself has refused to shed any light on the
matter. When told that his name appears on the records, he
responded, "I know nothing about that." And when asked if he
were the buyer, he said, "I don't want to comment."
   The mystery surrounding Mr. Grace's secrecy is compounded
by the fact that the price he paid for the building appears
difficult to justify on economic terms. The building is
leased to a partnership for the next 84 years. Moreover, the
rent Mr. Grace will collect is paltry and will decline as the
years drag on.
   The lease payments total only $1.9 million a year, less
than a 5% return on the $40 million investment. In 2013, the
payments drop again to $1.7 million for the next 63 years.
Finally, in the year 2077, control of the building would
revert to Mr. Grace -- who would then be about 120 years old.
   The best opportunity for Mr. Grace to make money on the
transaction would be to buy out the leasehold from the
partnership. Because he already owns the building, Mr. Grace
could have the inside track should the leasehold be sold. If
the leasehold didn't exist, the building could be worth as
much as $400 million, real estate experts say.
   Mr. Grace's purchase of the Empire State Building was one
of the few recent transactions in New York that was not a
distressed sale. (Ironically, most of the Salomon Brothers
executives who worked on the transaction were fired shortly
before the deal closed, as part of the firm's retrenchment.)
   Newspaper reports indicate Mr. Grace is an active investor
in a wide variety of companies through Sterling Grace Capital
Management, an investment firm that includes other Grace
family members. In 1990, Mr. Grace and his brother John R.
Grace reportedly waged an unsuccessful proxy battle for
Regional Bancorp Inc., holding company for Medford Savings
Bank. Mr. Grace is said to have more success with other
ventures, however.
   A spokesman for W.R. Grace  Co. said Oliver Grace Jr. is
a second cousin to company chairman J. Peter Grace and that
the company and J. Peter Grace had nothing to do with the
Empire State Building transaction.