Reform by the Russians, for the Russians
   ----
   By David Brooks
The Gaidar team is composed of a few score of men in their
30s. Many of them took their first trip to a foreign
economics conference as recently as 1988, but they have since
emerged as fearsome economists. "That is the best team that
it is possible to collect in Russia," says Polish economist
Jan Winiecki. "They educated themselves backwards, seeing the
problems and going back to find the right textbooks."
   Mr. Gaidar has since called in some outsiders -- Polish
economists Stanislav Gomulka and Jacek Rostowski, Richard
Layard from the London School of Economics, Anders Aslund
from Sweden and, at the 11th hour, Jeffrey Sachs from Harvard
-- but they are there merely to detect holes in the Gaidar
strategy or to serve as unguided propaganda missiles for the
Western market. The whole ethos of the Gaidar approach has
been that Russians are going to run this reform themselves.
At one point Boris Yeltsin observed that Russians are tired
of begging.
   That's an approach that's looking pretty good as today's
humanitarian aid conference convenes on Planet Debbie. It's
actually opening in Washington, but it seems out of this
world. The conference appears to be an effort to frame the
economic crisis as a "We Are the World" charity drive with
George Bush in the role of Bob Geldof. But the real issue of
the moment is economics not charity. As important as it is to
get the food in Russia distributed properly, if Mr. Gaidar's
reforms don't work, a few planeloads of Spam aren't going to
help much.
   The European delegations, who are not entered in the New
Hampshire primary, are going to want to talk about political
and economic aid, notably proposals for a ruble stabilization
fund, for aid to balance the budgets, the creation of a
payments clearing union and technical assistance.
   The danger of the conference is that the West may try to
turn Russia's transformation into a global rescue effort,
drawing Russia out of its self-reliant posture with billions
of aid dollars. Such an economic transformation would be
dominated by IMF conditions and timetables. It is perhaps
more than symbolic that today's conference is being held in
the host city of the IMF and World Bank and that Russia
wasn't asked to participate.
   At its best, the IMF uses its money to induce nations to
undertake courageous liberal reforms. But in Russia's case,
Boris Yeltsin already has more courage than the IMF. As Mr.
Gomulka notes, "Gaidar is too liberal for the IMF."
   As it happens, Mr. Gaidar and his team modeled their
strategy after the Polish reforms, which had IMF guidance.
The first steps were to liberalize (or at least raise) prices
and let the ruble float on international exchanges, steps
that went into effect on Jan. 2. The purpose was to let the
marketplace feed real information on the value of things via
the price mechanism. Foreign investment would be a step
closer and exports would be stimulated.
   The problem is that the ruble has gone crazy, plunging to
more than 150 to the dollar as Russians bet against their
government by buying dollars. Prices are absurdly out of
line, with senior Russian officials earning the equivalent of
a few dollars a month, and ruble-denominated items going for
virtually nothing in hard currency. Economist Judy Shelton
calls this the ruble gone bungee jumping.
   Now, some of the Western experts around Mr. Gaidar are
asking for a $5 billion ruble stabilization fund -- selling
dollars to Russians for rubles to bring down exchange rates.
Anders Aslund and Richard Layard argue that Mr. Gaidar's
reform cannot succeed without this Western help. If true,
this is worse than bungee jumping; it is jumping off a bridge
and hoping the West ties on the cord as you fall.
   It is possible that the stabilization fund could work as a
paper towel to soak up some rubles, if the ruble were to
bounce quickly back as Russian exports rose. But the paper
towel would be swamped if the monetary spigot weren't turned
off. The crucial factor is not Western aid, but whether the
Russians can find out what their money supply is, and control
it.
   In his 1991 book, "The Order of Economic Liberalization,"
Ronald McKinnon argues that the first step toward
liberalization is control of fiscal policy. In communist
economies fiscal and monetary policies are inextricably
linked because governments finance deficits by printing
money. If governments "prematurely" decontrol prices, float
exchange rates and privatize before controlling budgets and
money, then, he writes, "the traditionally passive Soviet
monetary system is likely to accommodate explosive,
confusing, and demoralizing increases in prices without any
well-defined upper limits."
   Mr. Gaidar's advisers understand that they must control
the deficit, which is 10% of gross domestic product. But
having raised prices and floated the ruble first, fiscal
control becomes exceedingly difficult. With price rises,
enterprises face intense pressures to raise wages. These
raises are paid for by applying to the local banker who
passively fronts more credits to the enterprise, thus
contributing to the next stage in the upward spiral.
   The other side of the ledger, revenues, is also a problem.
If wages and social welfare payments are allowed to chase the
price spiral, government revenues must remain high. The first
result is high tax rates, such as Russia's newly enacted 28%
VAT.
   More important, the government faces the overwhelming
temptation to postpone privatization. With the new prices,
the government food stores are now sources of much needed
revenue. Mr. Aslund is one of the Western advisers who says
that price liberalization must be accompanied by "auctioning
off heaps and heaps of enteprises, 70%." But so far there's
been talk about privatization, but no action.
   Failure to privatize then rebounds back and ruins the
reason that prices were "liberated" in the first place. If
stores are not driven by profits, if there is no competition
among suppliers, then prices aren't really free, they are
just set at higher levels. As the American Enterprise
Institute's Nicholas Eberstadt says, "You don't negotiate
food prices with the checkout girl at the supermarket. Prices
have to reflect the factors of production."
   This quick and dirty guide through the seeds of Yegor
Gaidar's sleepless nights illustrates the central problem
facing postcommunist reformers. There are dozens of reforms
that need to be made, each with interconnecting feedback
loops. It's a question of enacting the reforms in the right
order. The joke around economic circles is that they all need
to be done first (they're economists, not comedians). Mr.
Gaidar chose to "liberate" prices and float the currency
first, so he's got the problems associated with that
approach.
   He could have chosen the McKinnon approach, which
emphasizes fiscal discipline first. There is another
approach, which the Russian government seems to be flirting
with as a contingency plan. There are about three zillion
versions of this, but each involves giving the ruble value by
attaching it to some commodity or currency rather than
letting it float. Jude Wanniski and Judy Shelton have made
the case for such plans on this page.
   The major argument against them is that the Russian people
are in no mood to try something that seems experimental. "I
saw Judy Shelton's Journal piece," Anders Aslund says. "I
like Judy Shelton. But it has no relationship to reality."
   Regardless of whether Russia continues along its present
path, or follows the Erhard approach -- which has history on
its side, having worked in Germany, Mexico and elsewhere -- a
few metaphors are in order. First, this is a dark and stormy
process, with visibility restricted to a few feet. The idea
that moves can be dictated from afar, according to some IMF
timetable, merely locks in rigidities to what is at best a
flexible stumble in the dark. Second, the failure rate is
high, and the best realistic grade even a group as talented
as Mr. Gaidar's team is likely to get is "D-".
   A lot of media reports are panicky, emphasizing the worst
complaints and relying on old sources, disgruntled members of
the old guard. A lot of aid skeptics are panicked because
they think that Jeffrey Sachs is running the reform program.
He only talks that way.
   The West should do everything possible to foster Russian
self-reliance. If Western leaders decide at today's
conference that they must give economic aid, what they should
do is print up one of those beach towel-sized cardboard
checks that are presented to the winners of the Publisher's
Clearing House Sweepstakes. George Bush could then be
photographed handing it to Boris Yeltsin, with no strings
attached. Let Mr. Yeltsin and his team decide whether they
want to cash it and how to use it. Russians elected Russians
to run Russia.
   ---
   Mr. Brooks is deputy editorial page editor of The Wall
Street Journal Europe.