Exactly How Many
   Brilliant Thoughts
   Are There? 5,632
   ---
   Mr. Brilliant Wrote Them --
   And Copyrighted Them;
   You Must Know No. 1041
   ----
   By Amy Stevens
   Staff Reporter of the Wall Street Journal
(a) Will Rogers. (b) Your Aunt Millie. (c) Who knows? (d)
Ashleigh Brilliant.
   If you answered a, b or -- especially -- c, the copyright
lawyers will see you later. The correct answer is Ashleigh
Brilliant, who lays claim to being history's only fulltime,
professional, published epigrammatist. As for Francois de la
Rochefoucauld, the 17th-century author of "Maxims," and Oscar
Wilde, who observed in "Aphorisms" that anybody can make
history but only a great man can write it, Mr. Brilliant
sniffs: "They weren't full time."
   Mr. Brilliant has dreamed up -- and copyrighted --
thousands of one-liners. The result: When the Funny Side Up
catalog offered underwear emblazoned with the uncredited
epigram "I may not be perfect, but parts of me are
excellent," he threatened to sue their pants off. But before
Mr. Brilliant could file any briefs, the company sent him
$1,000 and agreed to stop selling the offending garment.
Funny Side Up declines comment.
   A former college history professor and one-time
Haight-Ashbury hippie, the 58-year-old Mr. Brilliant has
copyrighted such lines as "Even weeds have needs" and 5,631
others, which he markets on hand-lettered postcards, on a few
licensed products, in books and in a syndicated panel carried
by about a dozen newspapers.
   Since 1967, when he came up with "Let's keep the Christ in
Chrysler" (never a best-seller, he concedes, but "very
popular in Detroit"), Mr. Brilliant has produced an average
of one Brilliant Thought, as he dubs them, every 36 hours. To
qualify as a Brilliant Thought, an epigram must conform to a
rigid code: no reference to fads or fashion, no rhyme used
for its own sake, no puns, and nothing that isn't easily
translatable. "Nothing that poets use," he says.
   There's also a limit of 17 words, a tribute to the number
of syllables in Japanese haiku and an early observation that
he'd never used more than 16 words anyway, but wanted a spare
for emergencies.
   Mr. Brilliant likes to take a common phrase, break off the
stem and graft on something that twists in a new direction.
"I start with something and then try to complete the thought
in a totally unexpected way," he says. One example: "No man
is an island, but some of us are long peninsulas."
   If Mr. Brilliant -- that's his real name -- sounds a bit
eccentric, you wouldn't get an argument from locals. He
conducted an unsuccessful campaign for the Santa Barbara city
council entirely in song in 1977, and got 2,000 votes,
placing him eighth in a field of 11. He won a contest to
write new lyrics for the Chiquita banana song -- "the supreme
creative achievement of my life" -- but became incensed when
the winning entry wasn't actually used. Sample lyrics:
   Life, no matter what your plan is,
   Can be better with banan-as. . . .
   But it's dangerous and unsightly to be careless with the
peel of a banana,
   So my proposal is disposal in an appropriate mann-ah."
   Two years ago, Mr. Brilliant reviewed 14 months of entries
in Reader's Digest's "Quotable Quotes" and found he'd edged
out Mark Twain for first place, with five. A magazine
spokesman notes that since Mr. Brilliant's first saying
appeared in 1980, he actually trails Mr. Twain 21 to 13, but
leads Will Rogers by two. The magazine paid Mr. Brilliant $50
for each.
   While Mr. Brilliant attempts to make his prose timeless,
it wasn't until 1979 that the legal system helped make it
profitable. In a case against a heat-transfer decal company
that appropriated three expressions (including "I have
abandoned my search for truth and am now looking for a good
fantasy"), a federal judge in Los Angeles ruled that Mr.
Brilliant's works were "epigrams" entitled to full copyright
protection, as distinct from mere "short phrases," which
can't be copyrighted.
   That decision, and an $18,000 damage award, encouraged Mr.
Brilliant to demand money from others. He's written more than
350 threatening letters to alleged infringers, and has filed
and won a half dozen copyright cases.
   Mr. Brilliant caught 3M using epigram No. 212, "All I want
is a little more than I'll ever get," on its pads of Post-it
Notes. He sent a letter to the company, which paid a $6,000
license fee and promised a share of royalties. The company
says it isn't using the saying anymore.
   In October, a local restaurant, Cliff's & Co., distributed
a newsletter bearing an unattributed saying, "I try to take
one day at a time, but sometimes several days attack me at
once." Mr. Brilliant fired off a letter to the restaurant's
owners pointing out that he is the registered copyright
owner. The restaurant promised to print an apology and never
use the epigram again. Reached by telephone, a man who would
identify himself only as part-owner of the restaurant says
the matter was settled to avoid bad publicity. "No way did
Ashleigh Brilliant make that up," the man says. "I was there
when a customer at the bar made it up, and he told it to me."
   Mr. Brilliant says he has never pirated others' works. "If
I think there's any likelihood that anyone said it first, I
won't use it," he says.
   Occasionally, outsiders submit unsolicited suggestions for
Mr. Brilliant's line of "Pot-Shots" postcards. But he hasn't
liked a single one. He even tried to train his wife of 23
years, Dorothy, to think Brilliant Thoughts, but it didn't
work. On some private gauge, no one else measures up. "It
should sound like something that somebody might say, but it
should be something that nobody has ever said before," he
says. "It's got to be universal and perpetual."
   But an untrained eye can't always distinguish between high
art and a bumper sticker. "Are we having fun yet?" isn't one
of his. But "I think I'm enjoying what I think is happening,"
just happens to be Brilliant Thought No. 1942. What's the
difference? "The reason that's on a bumper sticker is that
it's a take-off on what kids say, whereas, `I think I'm
enjoying what I think is happening' -- this is a profound
comment on the nature of reality," Mr. Brilliant explains.
"Surely you can see the difference."
   Every morning, Mr. Brilliant takes a two- to four-hour
stroll. He carries a pen and paper and tunes his headset to
talk radio, a source of ideas. Sometimes he's inspired by
chance encounters or fragments of an overheard conversation.
Recently, Mr. Brilliant happened upon a young couple arguing
in the parking lot of the Jolly Tiger restaurant. "The woman
shouted, `I'm not going to answer you if you talk to me like
that]'" Mr. Brilliant recalls. He immediately jotted: "If you
want a kind answer, you should ask a kind question." Later he
modified it further: "If you must ask an unkind question, at
least try to ask it in a kind way."
   Mr. Brilliant is slight and a bit stooped, with a fuzzy
beard and a habit of gazing shyly downward while speaking. He
has the reedy voice of an old man, and doesn't use it much
without being prompted. But open-ended questions often elicit
a new epigram. Explaining his behavior in an interview, for
instance, Mr. Brilliant responds: "If I'm maladjusted, I
guess I'm well adjusted to my maladjustment."
   Might that off-the-cuff quip become a copyrighted
Brilliant Thought? No, says Mr. Brilliant: "It's the sort of
thing that clever people say all the time."
   William Safire, the author and columnist, questions
whether a phrase maker should seek lucre along with credit.
"Everybody who coins a short, pithy saying should be
delighted to be quoted and not object to what lawyers call
`fair use,'" he says. "It seems to me that nobody should be
able to copyright T-shirtisms like `Because I'm the mommy,
that's why.'"
   Replies Mr. Brilliant: "My response would be that it's my
total livelihood, and he has all his columns and books and
miles and miles of prose." Mrs. Brilliant, who handles the
couple's finances, says the business generates about $100,000
a year, with about half coming from the sale of the brightly
colored postcards for 25 cents each. She says her husband's
words now appear on about 100 million items.
   Mr. Brilliant doesn't always charge for his work. Take the
case of Joe A. Fear of Leadville, Colo., who asked for
permission to carve Brilliant Thought No. 1041 on his wife's
gravestone. Mr. Brilliant granted it without charge but with
one condition: The words had to be accompanied by Mr.
Brilliant's full name and copyright symbol. "These could be
in quite small lettering and in an inconspicuous position,"
he wrote.
   "I didn't mind at all," Mr. Fear says. And that's why
there's a copyright symbol today on a headstone in the
southeast corner of the Mt. Olivet Cemetery in Buena Vista,
Colo. "Frances G. Fear," it reads. "Before I knew the best
part of my life had come, it had gone."