These Hapless Fish Are Fast Food
   Before They're Out of the Water
   ----
   By Carrie Dolan
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Mr. Sayegh recently opened Fishin' Buddy's Bay, a place
designed for people who don't have the patience, or the
stomach, for fishing in the wild. Here, clients simply select
a sturgeon; the staff straps a harness on the fish; the
harness is connected to a line on the customer's pole; the
fish is released into a half-acre concrete pond. "The more
macho guys have the opportunity to experience the thrill of
sturgeon wrestling, without having the barbaric vision of
hooks in the mouth," Mr. Sayegh says. (One can, however,
choose to use a hook and wait for a bite.)
   "I like fishing," says Linda LeBard, who recently landed a
14.9-pound sturgeon for $93.12. "I just don't like taking
{fish} off the hook. They're so . . . slimy."
   There are other advantages. Along with sturgeon, the
four-foot-deep pond, formerly a bumper-boat pool, contains
locally hatched trout and catfish. Tables, umbrellas, chairs
and flowers sit on the blue carpet that surrounds the pond. A
computer program measures the "bite factor," or how many fish
are in the water; their number can be adjusted, depending on
how long a person wants to wait for a nibble.
   "The whole fun of fishing is reeling it in, not waiting
around," says Shelbi Ellis, of Sacramento, casting on a
recent day. "I'd rather fish on the river, but it takes so
long." On a previous visit, her husband, Randy, caught five
fish in 10 minutes at Buddy's Bay, at a cost of $21.
   Some say the main challenge is to the wallet. "The only
thing that would limit you here is your budget," says Ray
Howell, who brought his sons to help them "build tolerance"
for more rugged fishing. Picking up a bucket, he says "we've
had all the fun we can afford." Though his four-year-old was
thrilled to catch a pair of trout, another son found the pond
"too boring," after having caught a 43-pound halibut in
Alaska when he was seven.
   Not everyone is hooked on the concept. "It's ridiculous,"
says Ron Grant, president of North Bay Sturgeon Anglers. "A
sportsman isn't going to put a harness on one, just to say he
got a sturgeon. . . . That's like filling a pheasant full of
lead balls so it can't fly, then stepping on it, and saying
`I got a pheasant.'"