They'll Be Able to Offer the Brides
   Plenty of Rice for Their Weddings
   ----
   By Damon Darlin
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
There is a shortage of women in the rural province in
central South Korea, according to Lee Won Ee of the
general-affairs department of the local farm cooperative. The
province's young women, he complains, are going off to Seoul
and other cities to look for jobs. "They end up marrying
white-collar men."
   Indeed, the farm population in South Korea has dropped
almost 10% just since 1988, as the nation's farming industry
shrinks and its manufacturing booms. And North Chungchong has
one of the biggest imbalances of males to females in all of
South Korea.
   The problem is so bad that the farmers, who are between 28
and 33 years of age, have willingly shelled out $1,500, or
about 1 1/2 month's wages, for a mid-winter five-night,
six-day excursion on the frozen island off the coast of
Siberia.
   The head of the Korean Farmland Problems Institute
encountered the Russian women on a recent trip to Sakhalin.
They supposedly expressed an interest in meeting eligible
Korean men, so he arranged the visit. The potential brides of
Sakhalin, all of whom are of Korean descent, are office
clerks, teachers, bank tellers or seamstresses. A group of 16
of them will meet the Korean men, and 11 of the women will
travel to Korea on March 15 for a looksee.
   Bringing in brides from abroad has its problems, says Yoo
Sam-Hyong of the farmland-development department of the
national agricultural association. "The brides in Sakhalin .
. . know little about Korea and come from different
environments. We don't know whether they will adjust."
   Might the economic problems in the C.I.S. make it easier
to persuade the career women to work on tiny rice farms in
Korea? "Absolutely," says Mr. Lee, adding that nostalgia and
better living standards than in Russia would lure the women.
"Farms are being mechanized, and the women will be doing
housework anyway." He says that if three or four men end up
with brides, the trip will have been a success.