Newspapers Are
   Likely to Post
   Mixed Results
   ---
   Publishers Will See Boost
   In 4th-Quarter Earnings
   From Cost-Paring Steps
   ----
   By Patrick M. Reilly
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Besides continued woes in weak retail and classified
advertising, newspaper companies witnessed a new rash of
closings of daily newspapers, several in two-newspaper towns.
By year end, 16 dailies had folded. That will make things
easier for surviving crosstown newspapers. But fewer
newspapers is simply bad news for companies such as Tribune
Co. of Chicago, which owns Canadian newsprint mills. For at
least a year, several major newspapers have cut the amount of
space they give for news to save paper costs, and so
newsprint demand has dropped and prices are flat.
   Gannett Co., Washington, D.C., sold its Arkansas Gazette
for $69 million in October and the Journal Newspapers, based
in Springfield, Va., in late December for an unspecified
amount. But the company said the effect the sales will have
on earnings will be "nothing of any consequence." Analysts
expect Gannett's earnings from continuing operations to be in
the range of 67 cents to 69 cents, compared with 74 cents in
the fourth quarter of 1990.
   Raymond L. Katz, an analyst for Shearson Lehman Brothers
Inc., said that while Gannett, the country's largest
newspaper publisher, saw classified and retail ad volume fall
in October and November, it could, like other publishers,
begin to see favorable comparisons in the first quarter.
"Comparisons are easier but also ad declines are slowing,"
Mr. Katz said. "We expect the economy to turn in the second
quarter, but there will be a lag before help wanted ads and
classified come back."
   Knight-Ridder Inc. of Miami is expected to report earnings
from operations of about 88 cents a share, compared with last
year's 85 cents. Operating some of the industry's most
profitable newspapers in San Jose, Philadelphia, and Miami,
Knight-Ridder newspapers have seen ad revenue declines
through November, but circulation revenue is up 10%, due
largely to increased pricing. Knight-Ridder's results will be
helped in part by growth at its non-newspaper Business
Information Services unit, which provides electronic
publishing and financial information, where revenue is up
6.4% through November.
   Tribune is expected to have earnings for the quarter in
the range of 42 cents to 47 cents a share, compared with 49
cents a share a year earlier, which excluded losses connected
with the operation and sale of the New York Daily News. Peter
Appert, analyst for C.J. Lawrence Inc., said Tribune's
newsprint operation lost money in the fourth quarter, "which
masks a reasonably good performance" at its papers in Chicago
and in Orlando and Fort Lauderdale, Fla. "Those papers are
generally doing better than the industry," Mr. Appert said.
   Times Mirror Co., with major newspapers located on the
West and East Coasts, is expected to report per-share
earnings of about 39 cents, compared with 35 cents last year.
Analysts expect the fourth quarter to be the Los Angeles
company's first improved quarter, based on year-to-year
comparisons, in two years. The company is expected to take
charges for employee buy-outs at its flagship Los Angeles
Times and at the Baltimore Sun, and an additional one-time
charge from the write-down of the value of the notes
outstanding from the 1987 sale of the Denver Post. That alone
will result in a charge of $65 million.
   New York Times Co., though still facing a depressed New
York City economy, is expected to report earnings in the
range of 27 cents to 29 cents a share, compared with 16 cents
a share in last year's quarter. While ad volume at its
flagship New York Times is not expected to rebound this year,
the New York company will see improvement from major
operating cost savings and improved performance from its
magazine group.
   At Dow Jones  Co., publisher of The Wall Street Journal
and Barron's magazine and provider of financial information
services, fourth-quarter earnings are expected to be 32 cents
a share, although that would be excluding a previously
announced write-off of about 32 cents a share. A year
earlier, net income totaled 23 cents a share. Analysts said
the New York company's performance will be helped by a
steadily improving market for financial advertising at the
Journal.