Letters to the Editor:
   All the Many Things
   I Am Not and Did Not Do
Your article reports that my apartment in Washington was
used for copying documents that Mr. Pollard supplied to his
handlers, and later links me to Rafael (Rafi) Eitan, so that
it appears I was a player. You do not report, however, that I
had filed an affidavit in federal court in Washington in
which I stated, under the pains and penalties of perjury,
that if my apartment was used in this manner it was without
my knowledge or permission. That affidavit was made available
to you.
   While I did act as trustee for the receipt of funds into
European accounts that I was assured and believed were Dotan
family funds, your report leaves the impression that I knew
the illicit source of those funds. I did not. There is no
evidence or testimony that I was part of the activities that
generated the money directed to my conduit accounts. I can do
no more to prove the negative. As you say, I created
companies at Rami Dotan's behest in 1984 or 1985. You do not
make it clear that I was not involved in the subsequent
business of those companies, illicit or otherwise, as indeed
I was not. While by no means friendly to me in his debriefing
by the police, Gen. Dotan still said that I neither knew of,
nor was a part of, his General Electric Co.-related
activities.
   I was never a director of ESA Inc., took no part in its
management and, indeed, shortly after its inception was never
present in the U.S.; I know of no improprieties in the
conduct of the company's affairs, have no reason to doubt
that the company produced and delivered all of the products
it was contractually obliged to do and that the payment
received for goods delivered was fair and reasonable.
Finally, it was not a "one-man shop," an incorrect and
invidious suggestion.
   But perhaps the most grievous departure from sober
intelligence is your suggesting a link among Gen. Dotan,
myself and spying. It's nonsense. There are simple logical
holes in that hypothesis. Gen. Dotan was exposed by Israeli
police. If he was part of an officially orchestrated effort,
why then has Israel imprisoned him for 13 years? All of the
money directed to my trustee accounts were deposited in two
corporations. Substantially all has been accounted for and
recovered. Rep. John Dingell (D., Mich.) pursues his own
agenda. Joseph diGenova, wearing a prosecutor's hat, may
speculate with impunity.
   But only in fiction are loose ends neatly tied up in the
last chapter into a unified plot. Real life is otherwise.
Coincidence abounds. My cameo appearance in the Pollard
affair and my lawyer's role in the Dotan affair do not marry
those two events.
   Harold Katz
   Ramat-Hasharon, Israel