Technology:
   Future Appears Bright for `Flash' Chips
   ----
   By Jacob M. Schlesinger
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
"I want the year 2000 to be here today," said Intel
general manager Richard Pashley at a news conference here,
after stating that the flash technology would make possible a
$200, half-pound, half-inch-thick, fully powered personal
computer with a 200-hour battery life by the end of the
decade. Others in the industry expect chip-based, pen-size
tape recorders and electronic novels to become available in
the next few years.
   Enthusiasts say the chips are smaller, lighter, more
durable and more power-efficient than conventional methods of
long-term information storage, such as disk drives and
compact disks. Many analysts predict world-wide sales for
flash memories will grow tenfold to $1.45 billion by 1995;
some say it could reach $10 billion within 10 years.
   Skeptics question whether the currently pricey chips will
ever become so widespread. But the Intel-Sharp pact is only
the latest sign of growing industry interest in flash
technology, so called because of the rapid speed with which
it can erase old information and store new data. Intel has
about 85% of today's small world-wide market for flash
memories, but NEC Corp., Japan's biggest chip maker, Toshiba
Corp. and Mitsubishi Electric Corp. all have announced
products recently. Almost every major U.S. and Japanese
electronics company last fall accepted a common industry
standard facilitating the use of flash chips in personal
computers and other products.
   Indeed, even before a mass market has developed, flash
memories are sparking a trade spat. Intel and other U.S.
companies say they fear a campaign by their Japanese rivals
to slash prices and drive them out of the market, as they say
happened in the mid-1980s with other memory devices. The U.S.
industry is asking Washington to apply special rules to flash
chips that would accelerate tariffs against Japanese imports
if dumping is suspected. The Commerce Department in December
issued a preliminary finding in favor of the U.S. companies,
and a final decision is expected by next month.
   Still, the Intel-Sharp agreement reflects U.S. companies'
growing dependence on Japanese rivals, even when the
Americans have the technological edge. Intel is trading its
advanced flash knowledge to Sharp in part simply to spread
the huge financial burden of developing and producing future
generations of flash memories. Intel has a similar but
narrower arrangement with Japan's NMB Semiconductor Co.,
which will begin making flash chips this year.
   Intel also sought a partner because its marketing arm is
geared mainly to computer makers, while flash chips are
expected to find a broader market that will include
consumer-electronics companies, such as Sharp, which makes a
computerlike electronic organizer called the Wizard. The U.S.
consumer-electronics industry has all but disappeared, and
U.S. chip companies have had difficulties selling to the
dominant Japanese manufacturers. Intel hopes the Sharp
alliance will represent a step toward penetrating the market.
   Without Sharp, "we would not be able to come up with the
manufacturing capacity we would need," says Intel senior vice
president Robert W. Reed. Under the agreement, the companies
will blend design teams, and Sharp will begin making the
flash chips by 1994. The companies declined to disclose other
details.
   Intel's current dominance in flash chips represents a
reversal of the usual industry pattern of U.S. companies
developing ideas whose manufacture Japanese rivals then
perfect. Toshiba invented the flash memory concept in 1984,
but now ranks third in sales with about 3% of the market.
   Toshiba has said it now trails because it decided to
concentrate instead on developing more mainstream memory
chips. A Toshiba spokesman adds that "flash is still a niche
product" and that the company expects to regain share as the
market grows, particularly in segments that require
lower-priced flash memory such as voice recording for
telephone-answering machines.
   The appeal of flash memory is that it apparently overcomes
some of the fundamental tradeoffs prevalent in information
storage and manipulation. In computers, most short-term
storage is electronic (on silicon chips such as dynamic
random access memories, or DRAMs), but long-term storage
involves transmittal to magnetic devices (hard and floppy
disks) or optical devices (compact disks).
   Though these methods of long-term storage can handle
millions of pieces of data, they require moving mechanical
parts, which slows storage and retrieval, drains power, adds
weight and makes the computer more vulnerable to damage. The
need for disk drives, for example, makes it difficult to cut
the weight of a notebook computer much below five pounds or
to extend battery life much beyond two hours.
   Storing information permanently on silicon would eliminate
the moving parts and their accompanying drawbacks. But most
basic memory chips, such as DRAMs, are "volatile": They can
remember information only as long as power is running through
them; when the power is shut off, they forget everything.
   "Nonvolatile" chips exist, but generally suffer the
opposite problem: It's hard to change the data stored on the
silicon. Doing so on most such chips requires a long, costly
procedure using ultraviolet light. That makes them useful for
repetitive tasks, such as controlling auto engines, but
impractical for computer data storage.
   Flash chips combine the best of both worlds. They're
"nonvolatile," but they can change the information relatively
simply, using basic electrical charges.
   Flash technology is already suited to portable goods that
don't require huge amounts of storage space, many analysts
and industry executives say, and its evolution will make
possible a range of new products. In addition to computer
disks, Sharp executive vice president Atsushi Asada says
flash chips could replace many conventional
information-storage methods, such as photo film, audio
cassette tapes, even printed books.
   That remains to be seen. So far, the biggest credit
card-size storage devices made of flash chips store only four
megabytes of information, while most notebook PCs have hard
disk drives that can store 40 megabytes. As the
ComputerLetter newsletter in New York recently noted, disk
drives cost only about $5 per megabyte -- or one million
bytes of storage space -- while, even after price cuts of 50%
announced last week, Intel flash cards still cost about $120
per megabyte.
   In addition, critics say, flash chips can't yet match the
long-term durability of disk drives. And most computer
software would have to be rewritten to accommodate them.
Meanwhile, prices of magnetic and optical disk drives are
dropping.
   "Flash will enable a number of new applications to
explode, but in the near term, replacing floppies and hard
disks isn't possible," says Nicolas Samaras of Dataquest
Inc., a technology market research firm. "Some of those
statements are self-serving for the immediate future."
   But Intel's Mr. Pashley says most technical problems have
been solved and prices will drop as production rises. He says
Intel will announce next-generation flash chips with lower
prices this spring.