Year-End Review of Bond Markets:
   Nimbleness Needed to Avoid Municipal Woes
   ----
   By Tom Herman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
State and local government taxes "are obviously going up,"
which should make tax-free bonds more popular with individual
investors, says Andrew R. Johnson, managing director of
municipals at the Franklin Group of Funds, a San Mateo,
Calif., organization that manages more than $30 billion in
municipal bond funds. "Munis will have a good year" in 1992,
he says.
   Also, the volume of new state and local government bond
issues probably won't increase as much in 1992 as it did last
year, analysts say. The Public Securities Association, a
trade group, estimates new long-term municipals will rise
this year to $173 billion from 1991's total of $165 billion
to $170 billion. The total in 1990 was $128 billion.
   Furthermore, analysts expect another large volume of
"calls," or early redemptions, of municipal bonds issued in
the early 1980s when interest rates were much higher than
they are now.
   Municipal bond funds remain a highly popular way for
individuals to own a diversified pool of tax-free bonds with
low minimum investments. The nation's 121 general municipal
bond funds produced a 9.34% total return through November,
according to Lipper Analytical Services Inc. That was up from
6.02% in all of 1990.
   But money managers urge municipal-bond investors to be
especially selective this year. Many municipalities already
have major financial headaches as a result of the economic
slump.
   Last year, there was a record $4.6 billion of municipal
bond defaults on 215 issues, according to C. Richard Lehmann,
editor of the Defaulted Bonds Newsletter in Miami Lakes, Fla.
That was far above 1990's total of $1.9 billion and easily
eclipsed the old record of $2.3 billion in 1983, the year of
Washington Public Power Supply System's default. Mr. Lehmann
says these figures include actual bond defaults as well as
issuer payment defaults to bond trustees. A PSA spokesman
contends these figures are misleading because they should
include only actual defaults.
   Fears about municipal bond safety led to a sharp increase
in the amount of bond insurance last year, and analysts
predict another surge in 1992. The volume of insured munis
this year is likely to total a record $57 billion, up from
$48 billion in 1991 and $34.7 billion in 1990, says Andrew
Nybo of the PSA.
   The difference in yield between top-rated and low-rated
bonds is so small that it isn't worth buying most lower-rated
issues, several analysts say. Last year, investors who bought
shares of general municipal bond funds did even better than
the average "high-yield" fund, which is allowed to buy
lower-rated bonds. Over the 12 months ended Nov. 30, the
9.34% return of general bond funds was slightly better than
the 9.30% at high-yield funds. Insured municipal funds
returned 8.96%, according to Lipper.
   "If you're going to take a risk you want to get paid to
take it," says Mr. Johnson of Franklin. "But when spreads
{between top-rated and lower-rated bonds} are this narrow, it
simply doesn't make sense to buy the lower-quality issues.
You want to buy the higher-quality issues."
   Investors received a scare last year when the mayor of
Bridgeport, Conn., that state's largest city, announced plans
to file for bankruptcy protection. Although Mayor Mary Moran
vowed to continue paying bondholders, some investors were
frightened about what might happen to them in the murky
waters of municipal bankruptcy proceedings. Traders also
worried that Bridgeport's move might be copied by other
hard-pressed municipalities.
   But Connecticut officials went to court and managed to
block Bridgeport's bid to go bust. And Bridgeport voters
later overwhelmingly rejected Mayor Moran's bid for
re-election.