Alliance Capital Management Plans
   Joint Venture With Company in India
   ----
   By Michael R. Sesit
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Also on Friday, the Indian government announced that it
would allow private-sector companies to set up fund
management operations in the country. Until now, UTI and
several government-owned Indian banks were the only
institutions allowed to manage mutual funds in India.
   Through the new joint venture, Alliance said it will
become the first foreign company and the first private firm
to provide investment management services to Indian
investors. The venture is subject to government approval,
which is expected to be routine.
   Alliance plans to raise money from both Indian and
overseas individual and institutional investors for
investment in Indian stocks through country funds --
closed-end mutual funds that specialize in individual
countries -- and private placements. Noting that UTI accounts
for two-thirds of the Indian mutual-fund business and has
70,000 individual agents and 42 branches throughout the
country, Karan Trehan, a managing director at Alliance
Capital Management International, said: "We are going to
piggy-back off that distribution network."
   He added that Alliance planned to introduce innovative
investment products and money-management techniques that
would be new to the Indian market. Alliance will also offer
UTI assistance in such areas as research,
shareholder-servicing and accounting, some of which are
heavily computerized.
   India has roughly 6,000 listed companies that trade on 19
stock exchanges throughout the country. The Bombay Stock
Exchange is the largest, accounting for 65% to 70% of total
trading volume.
   "There's a lot of money there," said Mr. Trehan. "It's a
big market; 850 million people are a lot of people.
Presumably it's going to be one of the largest markets for
mutual-fund products outside of the U.S."
   So-called emerging stock markets in less-developed
countries have become a hot attraction for foreign investors
-- particularly U.S. investors -- in the past few years. As
more Third World countries seek to balance budgets, reduce
the government role in their economies, reduce inflation and
privatize state-owned industries, local stock markets have
boomed. Mexico and Chile are prime examples.
   In 1991, the Bombay Stock Exchange's 30-share index rose
82% in rupee terms, 28% when measured in U.S. dollars,
according to Alliance analysts. So far this year, it's up
21%, 20% in dollar terms.
   Up to now, foreigners could only buy Indian shares through
a few mutual funds, including the India Growth Fund, which is
listed on the New York Stock Exchange, and the India Fund,
listed in London. Both are managed by UTI. But that may be
changing. A new plan, recently approved in principle by the
Indian government, will allow Indian companies to sell bonds
that are convertible into stock to foreign investors in
overseas markets.
   "India is realizing that it must participate in the
growing movement of capital across national borders," said
Mr. Trehan of Alliance. "India will expect us to help them
access international capital."