Enterprise:
   SEC Wants to Help Small Companies
   Tap Capital Markets for Fresh Money
   ----
   By Kevin G. Salwen
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
At the same time, the SEC will try to make it easier for
mutual funds to buy more small-business issues by lifting the
percentage of illiquid holdings in any fund to 15% from 10%.
Moreover, the agency plans to propose allowing some funds to
redeem fundholder interests at only certain intervals rather
than at any time. That would allow those funds to invest more
aggressively in venture capital-style investments, SEC
Chairman Richard Breeden said in a speech yesterday at the
National Press Club.
   Mr. Breeden also is trying to persuade Wall Street to come
up with ways to securitize small-business loans, much like
the credit-card loans that underwriters now turn into
asset-backed securities. The small-business proposals have
percolated to the top of Mr. Breeden's agenda as a growth
tonic for a struggling election-year economy. Moreover, Mr.
Breeden argues that small businesses are having trouble
getting loans from skittish banks.
   The SEC chairman's plan, however well-intentioned, faces
an uphill battle, according to many people involved in
bringing small companies to market. For one thing, legal fees
for a million-dollar offering can frequently run to $100,000.
And the decline of regional brokerage houses, the traditional
underwriters for small businesses, leaves a dearth of
brokerage houses willing to take the little firm public. In
addition, some securities lawyers contend that last year the
agency severely damaged the opportunity for small companies
with a series of rules designed to wipe out fraud in the
penny-stock market.
   Still, Mr. Breeden said he wants to strip away obstacles
to raising funds. Specifically, the rule proposals would:
   -- Lift the ceiling for use of a simplified offering
document, called Regulation A, to $5 million from $1.5
million.
   -- Simplify the question-and-answer section for those
offerings.
   -- Allow publication of information about the company
before the Regulation A disclosure documents are filed with
the SEC.
   -- Create a system to allow small companies, defined as
those with a market capitalization of less than about $20
million, to file a simplified form for initial public
offerings. These companies also would be allow to file
"junior" versions of their annual and quarterly financial
statements.
   -- Let companies conducting an offering of "seed capital"
securities raise as much as $1 million annually in
unrestricted securities.