Russia Removes
   Price Controls
   On Most Goods
   ---
   Yeltsin's Plan Is Expected
   To Send Costs Soaring
   As Supplies Grow Scarce
   ----
   By Laurie Hays
   Staff Reporter of the Wall Street Journal
Russian and Western experts have characterized Mr.
Yeltsin's plan as a dangerous and desperate attempt to unlock
the economy and begin moving it toward a free market. They
say that in all likelihood, everything will become more
expensive, but there still won't be anything to buy because
Mr. Yeltsin hasn't come up with a comprehensive economic
program to address the country's complex ills. So far there
is no plan to stop the steep production decline. There also
isn't any strict monetary policy for controlling budget
deficits or the so-far uncontrolled printing of money.
There's also no taxation system that will bring the
government revenue.
   While Mr. Yeltsin has announced an ambitious privatization
program and says he will cut off state subsidies to
unprofitable enterprises, it isn't known who will buy the
businesses or where they will find the money. Massive
unemployment may be the only result.
   Critics say it is a mistake to free prices while the
economy is still run by such great state monopolies and there
is no competition. And the fact that Russia has insisted that
the other republics in the new Commonwealth of Independent
States that has succeeded the former Soviet Union follow suit
or face economic ruin has made Mr. Yeltsin appear quite
imperialist. Even the most ardent believers in Mr. Yeltsin
fear the freeing of prices may be so painful that they will
cause a social explosion that would undermine the democratic
reforms that Mr. Yeltsin has so far won.
   "We are now embarking upon a very tough `Polish version'
and this is done at a very difficult period of time,"
Vladimir Zverkhovsky, chairman of the prices committee under
the former Russian Ministry for Economics, told the Tass news
agency in an interview last week.
   But Mr. Yeltsin and his team of economic advisers feel
that the price reform program is the only way to go. It has
been five months since Mr. Yeltsin stood up to the attempted
August coup against former Soviet President Mikhail Gorbachev
and now that he has installed himself in Mr. Gorbachev's
Kremlin office, he must show that he can deliver on his
promise of a free market and a better life. Mr. Gorbachev
never came close to such a bold step as freeing prices.
   According to many, the price liberalization program is
only a recognition of what has already occurred. Wholesale
prices have risen dramatically and there are no products on
the shelves because nobody can afford to make them when
retail prices are so low. In addition, other economists have
noted that the black market has taken over the country,
buying up everything at low state prices and reselling it at
high commercial prices. The goods are sold either in the
private shops that have proliferated in recent months or on
the black market sidewalk bazaars that are sometimes located
right in front of the very shop that is supposed to be
selling the goods at state prices.
   "We want to bring inflation from a hidden form into an
open form," explains Andrei Nachaev, first vice minister of
the Russian Economics and Finance Ministry and one of the
masterminds of the reform program. "We can talk about
monopolization and privatization, but the main condition for
the market are free prices."
   Jean Foglizzo, the Moscow representative for the
International Monetary Fund, who has been following the
reform program carefully, said in an interview that Mr.
Yeltsin was "launching a courageous act in the right
direction. I have a lot of sympathy for these people."
   "It's a lot like 1917," Mr. Nachaev said. "It's a new
revolution. . . . But we understand that we really don't have
any other way out now than to free prices."
   The outcome of the freeing of prices isn't yet known.
Yegor Gaidar, Mr. Yeltsin's economics minister, has promised
there will be more food immediately visible on the store
shelves. He said much of it will come from the $200 million
in Western humanitarian food aid that is expected to arrive
later this month in Moscow and St. Petersburg. Included will
be 150,000 tons of meat, baby food, butter and medicine. The
plan is to sell the food in the state stores and at two or
three auctions. Mr. Nachaev said he and other officials had
decided that selling the food will be the only way to keep it
off the black market and make it accessible to everyone.
   In addition, Mr. Gaidar says Russia is planning to use
state war reserves and is counting on producers who have been
holding back products until the price increases were allowed.
   For Mr. Yeltsin to have any success at all, Russian people
must be extremely patient and willing to suffer while he
works out the rest of the plan. There is a possibility that
the black marketeers will see their profit margins pinched by
the elimination of low state prices and will start competing
on more even ground. In that case, producers could be
stimulated and a recovery could begin.
   The worst that can happen will be that workers will stage
the types of strikes that occurred last spring after the
unpopular prime minister, Valentin Pavlov, raised the prices
of state goods. The country then will continue the spiral of
hyperinflation, as it did last year, with wages doubling and
tripling to match the price increases.
   Mr. Nachaev stressed that in order for price
liberalization to work, salary increases have to be
restricted to 75% of the price increases. If people aren't
satisfied, the hyperinflation and budget deficits will
continue or there could be massive social unrest that is
predicted by Mr. Yeltsin's critics.
   Mr. Yeltsin is counting on tolerance right now. He has
promised a stabilization of the economy by the fall, though
Mr. Nachaev says this is probably too optimistic.
   "Our people in general understand the situation," says Mr.
Nachaev.