Winter Olympics 1992:
   Down the Hill With Al the Sled Driver
   ---
   That's Albert, Prince
   Of Monaco, Captain
   Of Its Bobsledders
   ----
   By Craig Forman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
At sea level, Prince Albert is known as one of the world's
most eligible bachelors. One day, he will inherit a glamorous
kingdom on the Mediterranean coast that has made his family
rich and famous. He's a good-looking guy, vaguely resembling
his late mother, Grace Kelly. And, of course, he's the
brother of two of the most popular cover girls in
supermarket-tabloid history.
   But among bobsledders, Prince Albert is simply Al
Grimaldi, sled driver, as his name is scrawled in Magic
Marker on his gear bag. "Albert is just a regular guy," says
Bryan Leturgez, a U.S. Olympic bobsledder. "You'd never know
he was a prince." At age 33, the prince is founder and
captain of his country's six-man Winter Olympic team.
   The Kabuki, explains the prince, helps him visualize the
route he intends to steer down the twisting race course.
Concentration is critical, distraction hazardous. So as we
fasten our crash helmets, I wonder if this is a good time to
ask what I'd like to know: Isn't bobsledding pretty
dangerous? And hasn't a prince got better things to do?
   "I do this for the speed and thrill," he says. "And it's
refreshing to do something I enjoy with people who are real.
Here, people take me just for what I am."
   Most first-time bobsledders can manage to keep their heads
up until the Kreisel, a 270-degree turn, where the pressure
of four G's pushes the head into the shoulder blades, the
prince says. "Before then, you'll be able to look around.
Afterwards, you won't want to."
   I'm not sure I want to look around now. Already things
aren't going as planned. My thigh is cramping up in the
bobsled's narrow cockpit, my helmet is too tight and my arms
are too short to grab the yellow handles in the sled's flimsy
fiberglass shell.
   As I prepare to wimp out and complain, brakeman David
Tomatis provides the only important piece of technical advice
I receive: "Whatever happens, don't stick your hands out. If
we roll over, you may not have hands anymore." I recall that
an unconscious Taiwanese competitor was helicoptered away
today after he wiped out. Suddenly, my hands can grasp the
handles.
   The prince started bobsledding during a vacation in
Switzerland in 1984. "Bobsledding is something I do well," he
says, and so he began training seriously in 1986. In his
first Olympics, at Calgary, the prince finished a respectable
25th out of 43 competitors. In Albertville, he says, "we're
hoping to do better."
   An improvement is far from certain, though, because of
unique obstacles confronting the prince. His royal duties
caused him to miss nearly all of last year's season; he did
just a fraction of the training of a typical Olympian. He's
been training nearly full time since October, but his absence
from Monaco has prompted grumbling about his involvement in
the sport.
   "If I don't do well, people will say `Why is he doing
this? What's he trying to prove?'" says the prince. Indeed,
though he spends less than 10% of his time on bobsledding,
these Olympics are likely to be his last as a competitor. "I
don't see myself competing beyond this season. I just don't
have the time," he says.
   That may sound odd coming from a man who represents a
country so small that in its world atlas entry, major
landmarks include the tennis courts. Still, Al Grimaldi is
considered a serious competitor. His biggest bobsledding
challenge has been finding enough athletes in this sunny
principality to field a team. Monaco has only 4,750 citizens.
Though its residents include such tax exiles as Bjorn Borg
and Boris Becker, Olympic rules bar them from competing as
nationals.
   When the prince started holding tryouts, he quickly
whittled the number of athletic male subjects between the
ages of 20 and 40 to about 200. Of those, only about 20 were
up to Olympic standards. The national team includes a student
of hotel management, a commerce department official, and a
dealer from Monaco's famed casino.
   A kind of relaxed camaraderie reigns -- the prince is
called "Albert" and gets his back slapped as much as he slaps
anyone else's. In his blue track suit, he's indistinguishable
from his teammates; like everyone else he carries his own
gear bag and his own roll of toilet paper. "You never know
what you are going to find in some of these places," he says.
   But the prince clearly is first among equals. Gilbert
Bessi, the casino dealer, says that while the teammates get
along well, "we don't spend most of our time at the palace."
The Monaco squad is on unpaid leave, and the prince's
patronage doesn't always help. "When I ask my boss for time
off he says, `I know: the prince, the prince. But who is
going to do your work while you're gone?'"
   And the prince doesn't do the heavy lifting of the sleds
and other equipment. When he's not piloting, his main job is
to translate the instructions from the team's coach, German
Olympic veteran Herbert Pitka. "I'm the only one who speaks
German," the prince explains.
   Now, as we get ready for our run, the prince's voice rings
out in the still mountain air. "Everybody ready?" he yells.
   And we're off.
   We accelerate down the long straightaway into the first
turn and start to bounce heavily on the ice. I can see the
turn coming -- a right-hander -- and the icy walls turn into
a whitish blur. A low rumble from the blades becomes a roar.
   We hit the steeply banked curve, a gut-wrenching hairpin
that sends us ricocheting back toward the start, but a
hundred feet down the mountain. As we turn, my head gets
pushed into my chest. My insides want to become my outsides.
   The most astonishing thing about a bobsled is that it
never stops accelerating. It feels as if we're out of
control, caught in fast-forward that goes ever faster. The
rattling of the sled becomes the rattling of my teeth, the
wind roars past my ears, and the only comforting sensation is
a brief whiff of pine from the surrounding forest.
   We zoom into the Kreisel, which feels as if it will never
end. One bobsled driver lost his helmet here and tucked his
head under the controls; seeing the headless silhouette, his
teammates thought he'd been decapitated. We careen out of the
Kreisel and immediately slide into a series of sharp S-turns.
I lose count of the turns, and my sense of direction. All I
can think about is my steadily loosening grip on the handles.
   Suddenly, we start climbing. Until the finish, bobsledders
can't use their brakes, which would damage the course. But
now brakeman Tomatis pulls us to a jarring stop.
   Our time is a little over 58 seconds, about six seconds
off the Olympic pace. That's slow to the prince. It sure
seems fast to me.
   "It was an OK run. No problems," says Prince Albert. "Want
to go again?"