Marketing  Media -- Advertising:
   `In' and `Out' Lists Undergo Ups
   And Downs on Spotting Trends
   ----
   By Joanne Lipman
As advertisers try to figure out what will be hot in 1992,
they are being bombarded with the usual lists of predictions
and trends showing up everywhere this time of year. A look at
how accurately the prognosticators fared with their 1991
predictions might suggest which ones will have it right for
1992.
   For starters, none of the lists had it all right, all the
time, for 1991. Us magazine, USA Today, Ketchum public
relations, the Socio-Economic Research Institute of America,
and even psychic Jeane Dixon (whose "uncanny predictions]"
appear exclusively in the Star) all had rather spotty track
records.
   Of the group, though, Us made some of the savviest calls.
It hit a home run with its prediction a year ago that perky
Katherine Couric of NBC's "Today" show would be "in," while
Deborah Norville would be "out." It put actress Annette
Bening, who hadn't yet met fame as Warren Beatty's paramour,
on its "in" list, and breast implants on its "out" list.
   Ketchum, which comes up with an annual "media trends"
list, posted an even higher batting average. A year ago, it
correctly predicted the demise of Connoisseur magazine as
well as the death of Smart and Egg magazines. It also
forecast that Fox Broadcasting would "get America talking"
with another new TV show -- before most grown-ups had ever
heard of teen phenomenon "Beverly Hills 90210."
   Looking to seize on the next new trend? Try pregnancy, or
the music of heavy metal pioneers Led Zeppelin, or cashing in
on the racy TV dating game "Studs" -- all of which make Us's
latest "in" list. On its new "out" list, among others: the
Energizer Bunny.
   Then again, Us and Ketchum could be dead wrong with this
year's predictions. Though their good calls last year were
prescient, their bad ones were awful. David Cassidy never did
make a post-"Partridge Family" comeback, as Us forecast last
year. It was also wrong in predicting "Bullwinkle" would be
in and "The Simpsons" would be out. And Ketchum flubbed when
it confidently -- and wrongly -- predicted the demise of
Mother Earth News and Lear's magazines.
   No matter. Ad executives, especially those on the creative
side, "pay a lot of attention to this stuff," says Jackie
Silver, a marketing and research consultant in New York.
"People really want to know the things and the people that
are in and out."
   Those who take their predictions seriously might consider
the Top-12 list from the Socio-Economic Research Institute of
America, a consulting firm in Rhinebeck, N.Y. Using actual
research -- something most list makers don't bother with --
it correctly predicted last year that debt reduction, real
estate auctions and short skirts would be "in," while debt,
real estate and shoulder pads would be "out." Alas, it
flubbed by predicting alternative energy and a return to
1960s values would be "in."
   For this year, the consulting firm predicts sewing and
crafts will be in, while upscale labels will be out, and
generic products will be in while brand loyalty will be out.
The professionally optimistic ad business, though, will
probably want to ignore Trend No. 5: The recession will be
in, while recovery will be out.
   Psychic Jeane Dixon's gossipy predictions are a lot more
fun -- and even, in a few cases, more accurate. She did,
after all, predict in December 1990 that Deborah Norville
would lose her "Today" job by spring. Okay, so several dozen
other predictions were wrong, including the 1991 breakups of
Prince Charles and Princess Diana, Farrah Fawcett and Ryan
O'Neal, Donald Trump and Marla Maples, and Candice Bergen and
Louis Malle.
   The ad community can't afford to make quite so many
mistakes. Betting on the wrong celebrity or the wrong trend
can be deadly, and expensive. Witness American Express, which
has been villified for appearing to glamorize '80s-style
excessive spending in its new ad campaign featuring fancy
bistros and Concord jets. Or Stroh's Old Milwaukee beer ads
-- starring the platinum-wigged, politically incorrect
"Swedish bikini team" -- which helped fuel a sexual
harassment suit at the brewery.
   Making a marketing faux pas can be particularly lethal in
this economic environment, when ad budgets are already
depressed and jobs already shaky. USA Today's "in" and "out"
list may have captured that advertising trend best of all. A
year ago, the newspaper included on its "in" list: "firing,"
"job hunting," "rags," and, in advertising, "real people"
rather than celebrities. For 1992, USA Today predicts more of
the same. Making its "in" list this time: "TV reruns,"
"discount malls" and "staying in."
   ---
   Wax Heads Saatchi Unit
                                                                                                       

   Edward L. Wax, chairman of Saatchi  Saatchi Advertising's
North American operations, was named chief executive of
Saatchi  Saatchi Advertising Worldwide in yet another
reorganization aimed at integrating Saatchi's U.S. and
international operations.
   Richard Humphreys, who had headed Saatchi's international
business, is leaving the company, according to Saatchi. He
couldn't be reached for comment. He and Mr. Wax were given
joint responsibility for running the agency in a
reorganization last August. Robert E. Kennedy, former chief
financial officer, was promoted to president and chief
operating officer.
   Mr. Wax will oversee all of Saatchi's world-wide
advertising, reporting to Charles Scott, chief operating
officer of the holding company, Saatchi  Saatchi Co. PLC.
Saatchi's U.K. agency won't report to Mr. Wax, a spokesman
said. Mr. Wax couldn't be reached for comment.
   ---
   Lintas Selects Roberts
                                                                                                       

   Lintas:New York named F. Stone Roberts president,
completing a yearlong overhaul of top management at the
Interpublic Group unit.
   The post had been vacant since early 1991, when Francis
DeVito left Lintas's New York office to oversee world-wide
creative work. Mr. Roberts, 47 years old, was named chief
operating officer in January, the first move in a complete
reshuffling of top executives. Mr. Roberts continues to
report to Tony Miller, who was named chief executive of the
New York office last June, and Spencer Plavoukos, president
of the world-wide agency.
   Mr. Roberts was a key figure in winning the Maybelline
account for Lintas after Procter  Gamble pulled a rival
cosmetics account, Cover Girl, to resolve a client conflict.
Mr. Roberts said he felt "the obligation to raise the profile
of Lintas in the advertising community in New York" in the
new post. In addition, he said he will focus on new business,
including two account reviews for which the agency is a
finalist: Bacardi light rum and Playtex Apparel. "The issue
for 1992 is to let the world know how good the work is that
we do," he said.