Advertising:
   Ad Problems Dim CBS Gleam
   In Two Stellar Sports Events
   ----
   By Joanne Lipman
The picture for more mundane network fare such as
prime-time series is even more forlorn. Media executives say
prices in prime time generally are off 15% or more from the
"upfront" prices set last summer -- and those prices
themselves were off 3% to 5% from 1990 levels.
   The market is "A.) Dead. B.) Dead. And C.) Dead," contends
Louis Schultz, an executive vice president of Interpublic
Group's Lintas agency, which represents such major
advertisers as Diet Coke and General Motors. "My fear and
concern is that it isn't going to change."
   The main problem, ad executives say, is that this year the
Olympics are draining money away from existing ad budgets,
instead of encouraging advertisers to raise their spending
overall.
   "Before, clients would come up with incremental money" to
spend on Olympics promotions, says Page Thompson, executive
vice president and media director of Omnicom Group's DDB
Needham. "It isn't there now. If you're going to do the
Olympics, it's going to come from someplace else."
   Merrill Lynch, for one, bought a package deal on CBS to
sponsor both the Super Bowl and the Winter Olympic Games. But
its ad budget, of about $25 million, will remain the same as
last year, says Charles Mangano, director of advertising.
That means every dollar it spends on the Olympics and Super
Bowl is one dollar less for its ordinary ad schedule.
   Other advertisers are spending even less than they
initially budgeted for this year. Some had planned to buy
network time around now, but are delaying until they see some
sign of economic recovery. Others are considering canceling
purchases they made during the summer "upfront" sales season,
says Marcella Rosen, an executive vice president of ad agency
Ayer. The net effect: fewer ad dollars to spread around for
all three networks, depressing prices further.
   That will hurt all the television networks, but in some
ways CBS Inc.'s network may have the most to lose. It has
both the Super Bowl and the Winter Olympics, and now it must
defend its newly earned status as the No. 1 network in prime
time, as well. A network spokesman insists sales are strong
for both events. Only a "small handful" of Super Bowl spots
remain unsold, he says, while "we're having a lot of
activity" on Olympics sales. He contends that CBS's prices
for commercials in prime-time programming are above upfront
levels, "and March is looking strong."
   But CBS must come up with about $400 million in
advertising dollars just to break even on the Olympic Games
that start Feb. 8 in Albertville, France, industry executives
estimate. It paid $243 million for the U.S. television
rights, and is believed to be pouring an additional $100
million into coverage.
   The network has already resorted to aggressive gimmicks to
sell time, handing out attractively priced spots for popular
series to advertisers that agree to buy Olympics spots. Even
so, Lintas's Mr. Schultz estimates $35 million to $40 million
in Olympics time remains unsold.
   CBS is using similar bells and whistles to push Super Bowl
spots. By packaging time in the big game with attractively
priced prime time spots, it can keep nominal Super Bowl
prices at $800,000-plus for 30 seconds, advertisers say.
   Ad executives say CBS's moves are no more than fancy
bookkeeping that masks price cuts. "They really held the line
too long" on prices, contends Gene DeWitt, of New York-based
DeWitt Media. "They were too optimistic. It's the psychology
that says, `It can't get worse.' Well, it got worse."
   ---
   After the Bowl
                                                                                                       

   Foote, Cone  Belding's San Francisco office issued its
latest "professional scouting report" for Super Bowl XXVI
advertisers waiting to swoop down on postgame endorsement
talent.
   Odds may be on the Redskins to win, but the agency is
putting its money on Buffalo's commercial appeal. It dubs
Buffalo Bills quarterback Jim Kelly, a veteran plugger for
Domino's pizza and Nuprin pain reliever, the game's "most
telegenic" athlete and a natch for future hair-mousse
endorsements. The Redskins' Mark Rypien, on the other hand,
suffers from "average looks" and a "monkish hairstyle," the
report says.
   The Bills' other possible small-screen celebrities include
running back Thurman Thomas, the National Football League's
most valuable player; receiver Andre Reed; and 35-year-old
receiver James Lofton, yet another older athlete. Quirkier
appeal comes from long-haired Buffalo lineman Mitch Frerotte
and linebacker Ray Bentley, the author of children's stories
starring Darby the Dinosaur.
   Among Redskins, the agency likes rookie running back Ricky
Ervins, lineman Charles Mann and "the Posse," composed of
receivers Art Monk, Gary Clark and Ricky Sanders.
   ---
   Ad Notes. . . .
                                                                                                       

   REVIEW: Oscar Mayer Foods, a unit of Philip Morris Cos.'
Kraft General Foods, is reviewing its estimated $15 million
Louis Rich turkey account, now at New York agency D'Arcy,
Masius, Benton  Bowles. Contenders include D'Arcy, Chicago
agency Foote Cone and WPP Group's Ogilvy  Mather, New York,
all of which are agencies for Oscar Mayer parent Kraft
General Foods.
                                                                                                       

   ACCOUNT: Martin/Williams, a unit of Gold, Greenlees,
Trott, won the ad account for Marigold Foods' national
rollout of Kemps Frozen Yogurt. The Minneapolis agency, which
handles Kemps's regional account, bested Ketchum
Communications, New York, and Milwaukee agency Frankenberry,
Laughlin  Constable. Billings haven't been determined.
Marigold is a unit of Dutch company Royal Wessanen N.V.
                                                                                                       

   COMEDY CENTRAL: Comedy Central cable network, a joint
venture of Time Warner and Viacom, taps celebrities Sean
Young, Timothy Leary, Stephen King and Mr. Bill for a series
of on-air promotional spots via New York agency Frankfurt
Gips Balkind.