How Japanese Can Speak to Americans
   ----
   By Tachi Kiuchi
Thinking back on those times, it strikes me that my hosts
must have been very generous and kind indeed. Practically
illiterate in the English language, and ignorant of American
etiquette, we Japanese were treated remarkably kindly.
   Today, I am astonished by how short the distance between
America and Japan, in a business sense, has become. Not even
we Japanese could have foreseen the proliferation of so many
of our companies on U.S. soil. Moreover, the speed by which
many of these companies have come to depend on Americans not
only as consumers, but as the producers of our products and
services for world-wide markets, is truly staggering.
   The sad fact remains, however, that the cultural and
social distance between Americans and Japanese remains huge.
And it needn't be.
   Today, the number of Americans working for Japanese
companies exceeds 400,000. By including the families of these
people, it's quite possible that more than one million
Americans depend on Japanese companies for their livelihood.
I firmly believe that important changes would take place more
rapidly if Japanese companies listened and spoke to Americans
through these one million voices.
   The dilemma, however, is that some Japanese companies
might not like what they hear. They may talk about such
concepts as a "borderless company," but in reality, they
don't always take the time to hear the Americans who are
striving to create a relationship based on trust and
teamwork.
   At Mitsubishi's big-screen color television manufacturing
facilities in the U.S., we have a policy of line-level
employees meeting every morning with their supervisors, in
order to keep the channels of communication open between the
worker and management. Each day, products are pulled off the
production line, and employees are encouraged to make
comments as to their performance and overall quality. Each
month a handful of employees from all levels meets with top
management to share concepts, air complaints and even make
criticisms.
   At one of our plants, the rate of employee turnover is
extremely low -- less than 1%. Similarly, absenteeism
commonly runs less than 1% of total working hours per month.
There is a feeling among these people that I cannot fully
describe, but I'm very proud of what we've accomplished
there.
   More generally, however, I'm afraid Americans and Japanese
still have a long way to go. Certain examples I recall from
over the years:
   -- The company lunch hour where a group of Japanese
employees regularly left to eat Japanese food by themselves,
rather than seek camaraderie with their American colleagues.
   -- After a long work day, the Japanese expatriate with
sleeves rolled up fires fax after fax back to the head office
in Japan late into the night.
   -- At the golf club, one Japanese member and three
Japanese guests leave immediately after finishing their
round, rather than mixing with others at the clubhouse.
   Perhaps the most telling example of our sometimes awkward
behavior can be found at U.S.-Japanese conferences. While
many of the Japanese representatives have strong interests in
attending these conferences, they seldom show the same
concern for what they plan to say. It oftens seems that the
higher the representative's rank, the less likely he is to
write his own speech or add his own thoughts. Thus, many
Japanese are unable to make significant contribution to these
meetings.
   As one U.S. speaker put it: "There are wide differences in
our perceptions. Even our national symbols -- the eagle and
the chrysanthemum -- are very dissimilar. But let's have
fruitful discussions today rather than exchanging meaningless
smiles and the storing of our speeches in a drawer."
   For a people who have been instrumental in bringing
telecommunications, computers, cellular phones and fax
machines to the world, we can be really lousy communicators.
   Part of our problem, clearly, is a nagging language
barrier. Without proficiency in English, it's only natural
for a Japanese to clam up when appearing in public and making
formal presentations. I firmly believe, therefore, that
Japanese coming to do business in America for any significant
length of time should strive for command of the English
language.
   There's another factor as well. In a public forum, many
Japanese don't display a personal style. Worse yet are those
for whom silence is golden. Non-participatory figureheads
representing Japan at international conferences provide a
poor example of our communicative abilities. We Japanese
would be best to remember that in the new global business
environment the exchange of information is the key to
success. We must admit our weakness and move on to get
professional training in the areas of speechmaking,
interviews and image enhancement.
   We need to be firm on this matter of broadening our
communication skills not only among CEOs, but among other
individuals rotated between the head office in Japan and U.S.
operations. Often, a middle executive will come from Japan
and stay just a few years -- rarely more than five or six.
Then, seemingly overnight, he's gone, often never to return
for more than a business trip or vacation.
   Because of our fear of appearing over-assimilated and the
long-range view we Japanese take in almost anything, this
arrangement can breed an "I never had enough time" attitude
toward enhancing one's experience beyond the office. Left to
their own devices, the vast majority of Japanese would spend
all their time in the office and at home, rather than getting
into mainstream American business and social life. Maybe we
need to take a page from America's book: Work fewer but
smarter hours, and experience a little more. Americans and
Japanese need to do more together, working more closely in
business and learning more about one another's culture from
social mingling.
   The summer before last I invited family, friends and
company employees to climb Mt. Whitney, one the highest
mountains in the continental U.S. We had an opportunity to
acclimate to the elevation before the final approach to the
summit. I believe that business relations between my native
and adopted countries must also be approached in this manner:
Aim for the highest goals and reach them one ledge at a time.
I know the top can be achieved. If we Japanese start the
climb, my experience tells me we're going to be met more than
halfway up the mountain.
   ---
   Mr. Kiuchi is chairman and CEO of Mitsubishi Electronics
America.