Letters to the Editor:
   The Death of Satire
Wherever we find poverty we find the absence of the
freedom to act. In the states of the former Soviet Union, in
our inner cities where welfare regulations trap people in
poverty, and in our schools where parents cannot choose who
will teach their children, freedom is abridged, and the
dignity of humans is destroyed.
   Contrary to Mr. Stein's offensive satire, Lincoln's
Emancipation Proclamation embraced capitalism. This promise
of freedom has been most fully realized where market forces
have been allowed to work.
   Russell G. Redenbaugh
   Commissioner
   U.S. Commission on Civil Rights
   Washington
   ---
   Freeing the slaves an anti-capitalist attack on private
property? Roosevelt a tool of conservatives? The National
Recovery Administration a front for a fascist corporate
state? Brain Trusters "exposed" by McCarthy? Roosevelt raised
taxes during World War II as part of an alliance with Stalin?
The Federal Reserve created inflation as an anti-capitalist
plot?
   Was this supposed to be a parody? As we say down in the
streets beneath Mr. Stein's towering white palace of
capitalism, "Gimme a break, Herb]"
   Millions of people living on the streets of America might
debate whether Reaganism had erected any barriers "against
the slide down the road to serfdom." They might also be
wondering when they will see any of the economic freedoms Mr.
Stein seeks to preserve and protect for himself and his
cronies.
   Jane Haigh
   Fairbanks, Alaska
   ---
   Various heroes and villains were discussed, but one
villain was missing. How about Woodrow Wilson, who presided
when the infamous Revenue Act of 1909 placed a 1% "special
excise tax" on corporate income? Also, the Revenue Act of
1913 (the first under the 16th Amendment) did not impose an
income tax at a rate of 2% as Mr. Stein stated, but instead
levied a normal income tax of 1% and an additional tax
ranging up to 6% on the income of individuals. I remember it
well.
   Donald C. Alexander
   Washington
   ---
   Rejoice] After nearly two decades of stern lecturing to
Laffer-Curve stalwarts, the man who derisively fathered the
term "Supply-Side Economics" has been converted. Welcome
aboard, Herb]
   Charles A. Parker
   New York
   ---
   Mr. Stein's marvelous piece might have been subtitled "How
the Captain Scuttled the U.S.S. Enterprise." For my own part,
I've always referred to it as the Democrat/Darman Depression
Act of 1990. The day it was signed was the day I ceased all
contributions to the Republican Party, as I could no longer
discriminate the Republicans from the Democrats.
   God help us -- as no one else seems to know how.
   George M. Ryan
   Encino, Calif.