Inside Track:
   U.S. Surgical Insiders Sold $59 Million
   In Shares During January, February
   ----
   By Alexandra Peers
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
U.S. Surgical stock has been a highflier, climbing from
about $45 a year ago to a record close of $131.75 last month,
shortly before the company announced a 96% jump in
fourth-quarter net income.
   Yesterday, however, the stock took a hit, sliding $8.75 in
late Big Board trading to end at $103. U.S. Surgical was
among several health-care stocks that sold off as
institutional investors took profits on growth stocks and
herded into cyclicals.
   Wall Street analysts are generally bullish on U.S.
Surgical, citing its role as the dominant provider of
disposable surgical equipment for common procedures such as
gall bladder operations. But short sellers -- investors
betting that the stock's price will fall -- have read a lot
into the insider selling at the company.
   Short interest in the stock was 1.5 million shares in the
month ended Jan. 15, according to the New York Stock
Exchange. Short sellers borrow shares and sell them, betting
they can replace them later at a lower price. Short interest
is the number of shares borrowed.
   Insider selling, however, is common at U.S. Surgical. For
example, a cluster of 13 insiders trimmed their holdings in
the summer of 1990, when the stock was at about $34 a share,
sales that in retrospect look "not too smart," said Mr.
Lustman, who was also one of the sellers back then.
   This time around, Mr. Lustman's shares fetched an average
price of $119.64 each, according to SEC filings. He had
obtained many of those shares through options exercises
immediately prior to the sales at $12.25 a share, SEC filings
show. He still holds 120,000 U.S. Surgical shares outright
and options to purchase more.
   The stock sale "was part of my estate planning, for tax
purposes and part of a selling program I've performed" over
the last several years, says Mr. Lustman. He added that he
was "very bullish" about the market for "minimally invasive
surgery and our No. 1 position in it."
   Glenn Reicin, analyst at Oppenheimer  Co., says whether
an investor should buy U.S. Surgical stock now "depends on
your time horizon." While the stock may or may not be higher
than its current level in three months, "it will be in two
years," he predicts. "There's a revolution going on" in the
surgical supplies industry "and they're the only way to play
it."