U.S. Broadens
   Fraud Action
   Against GE
   ---
   Amendment Contends Firm
   Helped to Divert Added
   Funds to Israeli General
   ----
   By Amal Kumar Naj and Pauline Yoshihashi
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
In amending its suit, filed in federal court in
Cincinnati, the Justice Department said that GE officials
helped divert as much as $40 million, rather than the $30
million previously documented. The amendment gives details of
how and where additional monies allegedly were diverted.
   General Electric played down the latest action, saying it
had voluntarily supplied additional information to government
investigators that led to the amendment of the original
complaint. "GE continues to cooperate fully with the
government's investigation and is holding discussions about
resolving the case," the diversified manufacturer said.
   "The filing of the amended complaint is a normal
procedural step," it said in a prepared statement.
   The Justice Department's original suit, filed last August,
supported a separate legal action by a GE executive, Chester
Walsh, who had sued the company under provisions of the
federal False Claims Act. The statute allows private citizens
to take such actions on behalf of the government and then
share in any money recovered by the government.
   Mr. Walsh, who worked in Israel for GE from 1984 to 1989,
charged that a number of GE officials conspired with Israeli
Gen. Rami Dotan in falsifying documents to make it appear
that GE had completed work that, in fact, had never been
done. Under the False Claims Act, defendants are liable for
triple damages, according to John R. Phillips, Mr. Walsh's
attorney. The additional fraud alleged could conceivably
expand GE's liability in the case to $120 million from the
previously stated $90 million.
   Mr. Walsh, who continues as a GE Aircraft Engine employee,
is joined in his suit by the Taxpayers Against Fraud, a
nonprofit group set up to help implement the False Claims
Act.
   In the amended complaint, the government alleges that GE
officials presented "false statements or records" in order to
channel $7.9 million in government funds, ostensibly for a
flight test, to a bank account over which Gen. Dotan and a
top GE official, Herbert Steindler, had "signatory controls."
GE said it fired Mr. Steindler last March, soon after the
general was sentenced to 13 years in imprisonment.
   The government alleges that the payment was intended,
among other things, "to influence" the general's actions with
respect to GE jet fighter engines "and future contract
proposals."
   The government also alleges that GE paid about $3.6
million through intermediaries who funneled the money to a
secret Swiss bank account controlled by General Dotan and Mr.
Steindler. "Some of these funds were withdrawn by Mr.
Steindler and Gen. Dotan and used for personal purposes,
including the purchase of personal residences" in Tel Aviv
and Rome, the government contends.
   In the original suit, the Justice Department cited a
number of other cases of fraud involving about $30 million in
government funds approved for Israel's purchase of F-16
fighter-jet engines. The Justice Department charged that GE
falsely certified construction of certain "support equipment"
that included a $7 million "test cell"; $4 million of
portable test units; a $4 million test stand; retrofit kits,
and other items. But the equipment was never built, according
to the suit.
   "As a result of the mistaken payments, the United States
has sustained damages of more than $40 million," the Justice
Department said in its amended suit.
   General Electric apparently is conceding that there have
been lapses at its end. An individual familiar with the
situation at GE said the company has commenced disciplinary
actions against 20 managers at GE Aircraft Engine division in
Cincinnati, which was linked to Gen. Dotan in the alleged
fraud. The disciplinary actions apparently involve demotions
and "opportunities" offered to some of the managers to
resign. But none has been fired. This individual said that
these managers have been cited "for acts of omission."
   The GE employees being disciplined include Mr. Walsh. Mr.
Phillips, his attorney, said yesterday said that GE has
threatened to fire Mr. Walsh if he doesn't resign
voluntarily. GE declined to comment. But the company
previously has said that as a GE employee Mr. Walsh violated
a company policy by maintaining silence during the period the
alleged improprieties occurred.
   GE's in-house actions suggest that the company is taking
some responsibility and, lawyers familiar with the
proceedings in the federal court said, GE is anxious to
settle the case with the Justice Department. Mr. Phillips,
Mr. Walsh's attorney, said GE has generally followed "a
conciliatory tone" before Judge Carl B. Rubin, who is hearing
the case.
   Meanwhile, a person close to Rep. John Dingell (D.,
Mich.), who heads the House subcommittee on Oversight and
Investigations, said John F. Welch Jr., GE chairman, has been
"communicating" with Mr. Dingell on the matter and is
cooperating fully with the committee. A GE representative
declined to comment on whether Mr. Welch is in contact with
the committee.