Rule of Law:
   It's Time for Lawyers to Kick the Tobacco Habit
   ----
   By L. Gordon Crovitz
These cases are about two social ills. Cigarettes aren't
called coffin nails for nothing, but tort reform insists on
asking whether any sensible legal system can let people who
bought a product knowing it was dangerous then sue the
manufacturer for agreeing to sell it to them.
   The smoking case before the Supreme Court, Cipollone v.
Liggett Group, is the only one where a jury ever awarded
damages -- and the $400,000 a New Jersey jury awarded was
reversed by an appeals court because the federal judge failed
to let jurors consider that Rose Cipollone might have
understood the risks of smoking.
   Indeed, the real issue here is whether state and federal
judges can dismiss these cases before they go to trial. This
is because the last best hope for plaintiff lawyers is to
keep the cases in court even if there's little chance of
damages. These lawyers know that if they can bring enough
cases in enough courts, tobacco companies might pay them
settlements to go away as a cheaper alternative to the full
costs of litigation. This abuse -- plus the spectacle of
lawyers recruiting the mourning families of deceased smokers
to be plaintiffs -- makes this case a good argument for
requiring the losing party or the lawyers to pay the other
side's legal bills.
   The reigning legal ethos dictates that the Supreme Court
will not rule on whether these lawsuits make any sense.
Instead, the case will be argued under the doctrine of
pre-emption, which will determine if federal rules pre-empt
state lawsuits.
   The notorious vagueness of pre-emption probably explains
why the justices apparently deadlocked in a 4-4 vote in
October when Cipollone was argued the first time. When
Clarence Thomas was confirmed, the other justices decided he
could decide the case, which will be reargued Monday for his
benefit.
   Nice trick to play on a new colleague. Justice Thomas will
quickly see that the legal issue is complicated by fuzzy
drafting of a federal statute. The possibility of such
irresponsible action by Congress will not shock Justice
Thomas, who will also be amused to see Laurence Tribe arguing
the case for the plaintiff. (Mr. Tribe, the Harvard law
professor, must not worry about Justice Thomas's judicial
temperament: Mr. Tribe was a chief adviser to Joseph Biden
during the Thomas confirmation battle and said Justice
Thomas's views of natural law threatened "the fate of
self-government in the U.S.")
   The issue directly before the court is whether the Federal
Cigarette Labeling and Advertising Act of 1965 blocks
lawsuits by smokers in state courts based on
misrepresentations of the risks of smoking. The law called
itself a "comprehensive federal program" for cigarette
labeling and advertising. The goals were to inform the public
of health risks from smoking and to protect "commerce and the
national economy" from being "impeded by diverse, nonuniform
and confusing" rules in the 50 states. It prohibited any
rules "imposed under state law with respect to the
advertising or promotion" of cigarettes.
   The doctrine of pre-emption is ambiguous enough that
despite the absurdity of these lawsuits, the result in the
case is hard to predict. For anyone interested in the
details, here's a short tutorial:
   Pre-emption can be express or implied. Express pre-emption
is stated in the law itself, which Congress rarely takes the
trouble to do. Implied pre-emption can be either field
pre-emption or conflict pre-emption. Field pre-emption is
when Congress makes it clear that a law is supposed to take
up the entire regulatory field. Then there are two kinds of
conflict pre-emption: impossibility, where it's impossible to
comply with both federal and state requirements, and
frustration, where state law frustrates the federal purpose.
   The tobacco companies say it makes no sense for the
federal government to insist on warnings, then have
state-court juries award damages because the companies
printed federally mandated warnings, not whatever warning
jurors might have preferred. Justice Antonin Scalia seemed to
agree during the October argument when he said, "It also
seems a little absurd to think that Congress said, `You can't
do this unless of course you do it through the courts.'"
   Lawyers for the plaintiff said liability is no problem
because the tobacco companies always have the "option of
doing nothing other than paying damage awards." In other
words, tough luck if the defendants have to comply with
federal rules that lead to state damage awards. There is also
the stronger argument that if Congress meant to pre-empt
lawsuits for damages, it should have said so very explicitly.
   Shorn of legal language, the best argument for the tobacco
companies is that even law can't be so stupid as to allow
juries to punish compliance with federal rules. The
compromise that Congress reached -- that tobacco could be
sold so long as firms printed the surgeon general's warnings
-- would be frustrated if state courts forced tobacco off the
market through ruinous litigation.
   Markets will watch this case closely. Calvert Crary, a
litigation analyst with Martin Simpson  Co., thinks the
justices would need a new "blunderbuss pre-emption doctrine"
to rule for the tobacco companies, but also says "juries are
just not ready to award huge damages." Still, letting these
cases into court would be a boon for lawyers. The Chicago
Board of Trade, which recently began trading pollution
rights, will be disappointed to learn that American Bar
Association rules prohibit sale of contingency-fee futures.
   One clear lesson is that Congress needs to be clearer
about what it intends to pre-empt. Until Congress assumes the
accountability that comes with making itself clear, the
courts will have to grapple with who can sue for what in
which courts.
   Juries are wise enough to agree that personal
responsibility means that tobacco users do not deserve
damages. The justices should also take some professional
responsibility to keep contingency-fee smoke out of the
nation's courtrooms.
   ---
                Warnings Not Clear Enough?
                                                                                                       

  Federal law has required Surgeon General's Warnings on
cigarette packages and advertisements since 1965. These are
the current warnings:
                                                                                                       

   -- Smoking Causes Lung Cancer, Heart Disease, Emphysema,
and May Complicate Pregnancy
                                                                                                       

   -- Quitting Smoking Now Greatly Reduces Serious Risks to
Your Health
                                                                                                       

   -- Smoking by Pregnant Women May Result in Fetal Injury.
Premature Birth, and Low Birth Weight
                                                                                                       

   -- Cigarette Smoke Contains Carbon Monoxide