Marketing  Media -- Advertising:
   New Black-Youth Film's Ads Stir
   Debate Over Inciting Violence
   ----
   By Thomas R. King
The poster for the film is a photograph of four
expressionless black men. An early version of the poster,
which made its way to some theaters, has one man brandishing
a revolver; Paramount has since sent out new posters in which
the gun is airbrushed out. But the movie's trailer still
features an apparent killing, gunshots and a chase scene with
police, among other things. The movie is about four young men
growing up in Harlem, and how peer pressure gets one of them
involved in a crime that ends in murder. The movie was
directed by Ernest R. Dickerson, a cinematographer who is
well regarded for his work on Spike Lee's films.
   Hasn't Paramount learned from others' miscues to save
itself, at the least, a round of embarrassing publicity?
Friday's Hollywood Reporter, for instance, had a front page
story quoting Jay St. John, a Los Angeles police detective,
who likened the movie's promotional poster to "waving a red
flag in front of a bull."
   Paramount, a unit of Paramount Communications Inc.,
disputes charges that it's acting irresponsibly. "If you
don't market the picture in a way that's faithful to the
finished product, you are going to attract an audience that
is totally unprepared for this movie," says Barry London,
president of Paramount's Motion Picture Group/World-wide
Distribution. "This is a tough, gritty film, and we have to
represent it in an accurate and honest way."
   Paramount says its decision to remove the gun from the
poster stemmed from creative considerations, not because it
feared the gun would incite violence.
   But some think it's dangerous to promote images of gang
members in movie posters on bus shelters and subway platforms
in major urban areas -- places where viewers aren't given
enough information to realize that such films may have an
uplifting or positive message and may even be anti-violence,
as Paramount says "Juice" is. The poster's main slogan is:
Power. Respect. How far will you go to get it?
   "The ad art implies danger to me," says Charles V.
Richardson, president of Tri-Ad Communications Group, a
company that advises film studios and corporations on black
marketing strategies. "It suggests to me a characterization
of black male youths that in New York's current racial
climate is of questionable value." He says the poster, which
he describes as having a "menacing impression," is "much more
stark than the TV commercial."
   Not everyone has a problem with the campaign. George
Jackson, who along with Doug McHenry produced "New Jack
City," a Warner Bros. film also set in Harlem, is angry
because he sees a double standard. "No one raised an issue
about the trailer for `The Last Boy Scout,'" Mr. Jackson says
about another film with violence. "I think this is a little
unfair, and it's an issue which I think is borderline
racism."
   Many feel, though, that action films like "The Last Boy
Scout," which stars Bruce Willis, don't strike the same
sensitive chord as do more realistic pictures about life in
the inner city that don't feature major stars. Mr. Jackson
says he wishes all the energy spent debating marketing
campaigns was spent discussing the issues and themes the
movies are trying to address, such as social recognition and
peer pressure. "That's where the focus should be," he says.
   For its part, Paramount says it has learned some lessons
from the previous less-than-perfect outings by Columbia, with
"Boyz," and Warner's release of "New Jack City," an anti-drug
film directed by Mario Van Peebles.
   Paramount, for example, says it offered early on to pay
for additional security if requested by exhibitors. And it
has been flexible on contract terms with theater chains that
elect not to run "Juice" at danger-prone locations. Paramount
had wanted to play the film in Los Angeles's lively and
trendy Westwood neighborhood, but after objections from the
chain that had won the bid to play the film in the Los
Angeles area, Paramount didn't press the issue.
   In addition, Paramount also has made available additional
prints of the film to theaters requesting them for opening
weekend. One reason violence broke out at the openings of the
other films, a Paramount spokesman says, is that the bulk of
the moviegoing audience for such films shows up for the late
show. When those showings sell out, many unhappy people are
turned away at the box office, and sometimes resort to
violence. This way, Paramount says, multiplex theaters can
show the film on another available screen to accommodate any
extra moviegoers.
   ---
   Chiat/Day's Peppers Resigns
                                                                                                       

   Don Peppers, one of the highest-profile advertising
executives of the 1980s, has resigned as president and chief
executive officer of Chiat/Day/Mojo's direct marketing unit,
Perkins/Butler.
   Mr. Peppers confirmed his resignation, which hasn't yet
been announced. The executive doesn't have another job lined
up. He said Friday that he was leaving to complete a book on
the future of marketing due out this fall, and that he plans
to do some consulting work as well. He said he hadn't been
forced out, adding, "I was very happy at Perkins/Butler, I
have this book in me and it has to come out."
   Industry executives weren't surprised by Mr. Peppers's
departure. His background is largely in new-business
prospecting, not in direct marketing. He was at
Perkins/Butler only 16 months.
   Mr. Peppers, 41 years old, helped make new-business
hunting one of the most glamorous fields in the ad-business
in the go-go '80s. He started at the now-defunct Levine,
Huntley, Schmidt  Beaver, making a name with a string of
new-business wins and a bagful of showbiz tricks, from
calling potential clients once an hour to sending flowers to
tailoring a pitch to appeal to a potential client who was a
devotee of "est" (Erhard Seminars Training). He was hired
away by Interpublic's Lintas agency in 1988 for a salary
reported to top $400,000.
   But in the '90s, with the recession hitting full-tilt,
expensive bounty hunters like Mr. Peppers quickly fell out of
favor. The executive joined Chiat in early 1990 as executive
vice president in charge of business development, but by that
October was moved to the direct marketing post.
   With Mr. Peppers's departure, Chiat executive Adelaide
Horton will become Perkins/Butler's general manager, Mr.
Peppers said.
   ---
   Ad Notes. . . .
                                                                                                       

   BASEBALL FINALISTS: Major League Baseball Properties has
narrowed its search for an agency for its estimated $3
million account to five New York finalists. They are: Cliff
Freeman  Partners, a unit of Saatchi  Saatchi Co.;
Kirshenbaum  Bond; Hal Riney  Partners; D'Arcy, Masius
Benton  Bowles; and the incumbent, Partners  Shevack.
                                                                                                       

   ACCOUNTS: Channel Home Centers, the Whippany, N.J., retail
chain, tapped Margeotes, Fertitta  Weiss, New York, to
handle its estimated $4 million to $5 million account,
previously handled by the Detroit office of W.B. Doner  Co.
. . . Lotus Development, Cambridge, Mass., consolidated its
estimated $13 million direct marketing account with its
regular ad agency, Hill, Holliday, Connors, Cosmopulos,
Boston. It was previously handled by direct marketing firm
Bronner Slosberg Humphrey, Boston. . . . Young  Rubicam's
San Francisco office won the estimated $4.5 million account
of Western utility company PacifiCorp. Incumbents were Pihas,
Schmidt, Westerdahl, Portland, Ore.; and Evans Advertising,
Salt Lake City and Portland.
                                                                                                       

   HILL  KNOWLTON: Hill  Knowlton chief executive Thomas E.
Eidson denounced the opinion article published in the New
York Times that criticized his firm's lobbying for client
Citizens for a Free Kuwait. The article was skeptical of
testimony given last year by an unidentified 15-year-old
Kuwaiti girl before a Congressional caucus on Iraqi
atrocities. It said Hill  Knowlton, a unit of WPP Group,
improperly withheld her identity as daughter of the Kuwaiti
ambassador to the U.S. Mr. Eidson called the allegations
"character assassination and insinuation."
                                                                                                       

   SAATCHI: Saatchi  Saatchi said its largest investor,
Wisconsin Investment Board, increased its stake in the
company to 7.8% from 6.4%. British investor Morgan Grenfell
Group PLC increased its stake to 5.7% from from 5.2%.
                                                                                                       

   WHO'S NEWS: WPP Group's J. Walter Thompson elected three
U.S. executive vice presidents to its world-wide board of
directors. They are James Heekin, 42 years old, general
manager of the New York office; Peter Kim, 32, director of
strategic planning; and J. Steve Davis, 46, general manager
of the Chicago office.
                                                                                                       

   DENTISTS' WIVES: Interpublic Group's Lintas:New York casts
dentists' wives in an ad campaign for Mentadent toothpaste,
sidestepping the TV networks' "white coat" policy against
using medical professionals in commercials. Mentadent is a
new product with baking soda, hydrogen peroxide and fluoride
from Unilever Group's Chesebrough-Pond's.