Enterprise -- State and Local Spotlight:
   States' Franchise Legislation Remained Light Last Year
   ----
   By Timothy D. Schellhardt
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Legislative activity could pick up this year if the
economy continues to be sour. "During times of declining
sales and profitability, franchisees in certain cases are
more willing to better their situation by going to the
legislatures for help," said Neil Simon, who tracks state
activity for the International Franchise Association, a
Washington, D.C., trade group.
   Iowa is one state being watched in 1992. A move is under
way by several franchisees to push a bill to give them more
power in bargaining with large franchisers.
   ---
   DADE COUNTY, FLA., becomes the first locality to adopt a
family-leave law.
   Employers with at least 50 workers will have to offer up
to 12 weeks of unpaid leave every two years to care for a
newborn or adopted child or to deal with a serious family
illness. The measure, passed in mid-December, goes into
effect in March. The new law applies only to Dade companies,
but county commissioners claim they won't do business with
large companies outside the county that do not have a
family-leave program.
   Women's groups generally praised the bill. "This offers a
realistic approach to today's society," said Evelyn Shea,
spokeswoman for the Florida Federation of Business and
Professional Women's Clubs. But some business leaders opposed
it, contending that it would be a disincentive for new
businesses to locate in the county.
   The only dissenting Dade County commissioner was Mary
Collins, the lone woman, who worried that jobs will be lost.
   ---
   PRIVATIZATION: Small companies win about 80% of the awards
when state and local governments contract out services with
the private sector, a study funded by the Small Business
Administration concluded. It also found that most
jurisdictions provide some support -- from seminars and
workshops to waiving bonding rules -- to encourage small
companies to bid. Still, the study found, small companies
face disadvantages when substantial capital equipment is
needed or when a single contract covers a large geographic
area or a large quantity of services.
   ---
   GRAND FORKS, N.D. plan to aid businesses draws plaudits
and copycats.
   In 1987, voters in the North Dakota community of nearly
50,000 overwhelmingly passed a one-cent sales tax and
earmarked about one-third of the proceeds for a so-called
Growth Fund. The fund provides financial help with little red
tape involved to new or expanding businesses, most of which
are small, in Grand Forks and surrounding smaller towns. The
aid is designed to create new jobs, expand the property-tax
base, and diversify a local economy largely dependent on
agriculture, an Air Force base and a university.
   So far, the plan "has exceeded expectations," said John
O'Leary, community-development director of Grand Forks.
Initially, the city council expected the program to generate
100 new jobs a year at an average cost of $10,000 a job.
Instead, the 14 businesses that have received slightly more
than $3 million in total aid have sparked 650 new permanent
jobs, at an average cost of just $4,615 a job.
   Among those helped: small manufacturing and
food-production businesses and some service and
health-related concerns. A Canadian bus company was lured to
build a plant employing 50. Growth Fund applications are
considered by an advisory panel, which includes owners of
small businesses.
   Several other North Dakota cities, including Minot,
Williston, and Jamestown, have since passed similar economic
development plans, and cities throughout the U.S. have
requested information from Grand Forks.
   ---
   RECESSION SPURS a big increase in rate of U.S. business
failures.
   Nationally, the rate of business failures -- most of them
small companies -- surged nearly 50% in the first seven
months of 1991, reflecting the breadth of the economic
recession, according to Dun & Bradstreet Corp., which tracks
such statistics. But the increases were much higher in some
regions: 86.2% in New England, 82.1% in the Middle Atlantic
states of New York, New Jersey, and Pennsylvania, and 78% in
the Pacific states, including Alaska and Hawaii.
   Registering the smallest increases were the West South
Central states of Arkansas, Oklahoma, Louisiana and Texas, up
only 12.3% overall, and the East North Central states of
Ohio, Indiana, Illinois, Michigan, and Wisconsin, up 32.4%.
   But there were big differences among some states within a
single region. While Iowa recorded a 51% drop in failures,
neighboring Minnesota registered a 182% jump during the the
first seven months of 1991, the most recent statistical
period. Although Hawaii posted a steep 76% drop in failures,
Oregon's number soared nearly 400% in the period.
   A Dun & Bradstreet spokesman said it's unlikely that the
percentage changes for business failures recorded for all of
1991 will vary that much from those posted for the first
seven months.