Marketing  Media -- Advertising:
   Super Bowl Ad for Nicotine Patch
   Is a First for Prescription Drugs
   ----
   By Laura Bird
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The Nicoderm ads were initially going to run late last
year, but the product's introduction was held up by a lawsuit
from a competitor. A federal judge lifted that injunction in
December, allowing the company to begin selling the patches,
which leach nicotine into the skin in gradually decreasing
doses over ten weeks to wean smokers from cravings for the
drug.
   Super Bowl viewers may find it hard to figure that out
from watching the ads, however; strict federal rules
regulating prescription drug marketing don't allow the
company to say what it is that Nicoderm does or show smokers
using the patches. Instead, the ads depict two business
travelers in an airport, a location the commercial's creator,
Francis Gace, president of health-care ad agency Lewis 
Gace, calls "the epitome of smokers' anxiety." The two
characters discuss the new product a bit anxiously -- and
obtusely. "It's called Nicoderm," says one. "Oh yeah, yeah,
the patch," says the other. "Right it's a patch," the first
one says. "Nicoderm," his friend replies.
   Critics charge the ads aren't geared to people who want to
quit smoking at all. Instead, they say, the spots appeal to
committed smokers with no intention of quitting -- people who
simply want to fend off nicotine cravings when they aren't
allowed to smoke, such as during airplane rides.
   Sidney Wolfe, director of Public Citizen Health Research
Group, a Washington, D.C., research and advocacy
organization, says, "it's not at all clear that this isn't an
ad for how to survive your four-hour flight from New York to
Chicago."
   Marion Merrell Dow, a unit of Dow Chemical, rejects that
argument. The message, says Mr. Gace, won't be lost on what
he calls the "committed quitters" of the world -- smokers who
are usually older and who have probably tried to quit on
their own several times. The average smoker, he says, is
about 28 years old, with a household income below $30,000,
and probably a member of an ethnic minority. Average
quitters, on the other hand, are more likely in their late
forties, with incomes over $40,000, and more than half of
them are women. "They've recognized their mortality and their
inability to quit on their own," Mr. Gace says.
   Mr. Gace isn't deterred by the fact that the Super Bowl
delivers demographics that aren't exactly skewed to this
target. Super Bowl viewers are 56% male vs. 44% female, and
evenly spread between the ages of 18 to 54. "When we get 100
million in one swoop," Mr. Gace says, "we're going the whole
hog."
   Marion Merrell Dow has high hopes for its smoking
cessation patch. It estimates Nicoderm could become a $250
million to $300 million product in a market some analysts
calculate could reach $600 million world-wide. The company
has already had success advertising other prescription drugs
directly to consumers with its Nicorette nicotine gum and
Seldane antihistamine.
   Pharmaceutical companies have faced a fair amount of
criticism for advertising prescription products directly to
consumers. The American Medical Association and others have
expressed concern that such advertising drives up the price
of drugs and interferes with the client-doctor relationship
by creating a demand for a branded product that might not be
the most effective remedy.
   Public Citizen's Dr. Wolfe notes that the ads also make no
mention that few smokers quit without counseling in how to
change their behavior.
   Marion Merrell Dow rejects that criticism. In fact, the
company has printed a how-to-quit booklet for physicians to
distribute to patients, as an added incentive for physicians
to prescribe Nicoderm. And says Joy Scott, chief executive of
Scott Levin Associates, a Newton, Pa., marketing consultant
to prescription-drug companies, "It seems to me, regardless
of the cost, there would be greater societal benefit in
making people aware of a new alternative in breaking the
habit."
   ---
   Humphreys Forced Out
                                                                                                       

   Richard Humphreys, who abruptly left Saatchi  Saatchi
Advertising this week, was forced out after clashing with
Robert Louis-Dreyfus, head of London parent company Saatchi 
Saatchi Co. PLC, industry executives said.
   Mr. Humphreys, an ambitious 45-year-old Briton, had headed
Saatchi Advertising's international business and was being
groomed to lead its world-wide operations. Details of his
surprise departure are sketchy, though several executives
cited his overt ambition and one said he balked when Mr.
Louis-Dreyfus demanded certain budget cuts.
   A spokesman for the parent company confirmed that Mr.
Humphreys was asked to leave. He said 20 less senior managers
were also dismissed at Saatchi Advertising's London office to
pare down "flabby" management, and Mr. Humphreys could be
considered the most "dramatic illustration of that."
   Mr. Humphreys, who couldn't be reached for comment, joined
Saatchi after it purchased an ad agency he co-owned several
years ago. Because he was paid largely in stock, he remains
one of Saatchi's largest individual shareholders; his 1.5%
stake is larger than the combined stake of founders Charles
and Maurice Saatchi.
   As previously reported, Ed Wax, who had headed up North
American operations, was named chief executive of the
world-wide ad agency in the wake of Mr. Humphreys's
departure. Mr. Wax couldn't be reached, but industry
executives said he played no role in the ouster.
   ---
   Ad Notes. . . .
                                                                                                       

   WPP MULLS OFFERING: WPP Group is considering trying to
raise as much as #40 million ($72.2 million) in Tokyo,
industry executives said. The beleaguered London advertising
group is working with Japan's Daiwa to try to arrange a
public offering in Japan of up to a 40% stake in its Far
Eastern units, they said. WPP executives couldn't be reached.