Mayors Question Magazine's Tactics in Ratings Survey
   ----
   By Patrick M. Reilly
   Staff Reporter of the Wall Street Journal
As copies of the top-30 issue were being mailed, Financial
World President Douglas A. McIntyre sent a form letter dated
Feb. 11 to officials of the cities ranked in the bottom 20 of
the magazine's rankings offering them for the first time a
one-day, $10,000 seminar, conducted by what the magazine
bills as experts on municipal finances, on "How to Create an
A+ City Management." (This doesn't include the cost of
airfare for sending three Financial World staff members to
the city to help conduct the seminar).
   While Mr. McIntyre doesn't promise enrollment will result
in an improved grade in next year's ratings, the letter
emphasizes that its top-30 ranking is so influential it
affects elections, bond-rating agency perceptions, and
potential economic development.
   In the past week, as the magazine has circulated, the
ranking and especially the offer of an expensive seminar has
a number of mayors steamed. Bert Rohrer, spokesman for
Jacksonville mayor Edward Austin, said the city's general
counsel found nothing illegal in the offer of an expensive
seminar. "But this is certainly one of the more blatant
violations of journalistic ethics I've ever seen. It's an
outrageous scam," says Mr. Rohrer, a former newspaper
reporter. Jacksonville received a C grade and was ranked
27th.
   Jacksonville won't let it rest. Mayor Austin on Tuesday
fired off a letter to the U.S. Conference of Mayors alerting
them to the offer being made by Financial World. Addressed to
Raymond Flynn, mayor of Boston and president of the body, Mr.
Austin says Mr. McIntyre's letter "strongly implies that for
a fee the writers of the article will show cities how to
improve their letter grades, and thus their rankings in the
survey. Cities don't need to be hijacked through this new
wrinkle on checkbook journalism. . . . Given that Mr.
McIntyre has indicated next year he plans to expand the
survey to 50 cities, a warning to the various mayors may be
in order. . . . This one made me mad."
   Late yesterday, Mayor Flynn, representing the conference
of mayors, fired a letter off to Financial World,
reprimanding Mr. McIntyre for offering a seminar to raise a
city's rating. "As a journalistic publication, it is
imperative that there is a clear separation between
journalistic review and management consulting of your
subjects," Mayor Flynn wrote. "Your letter blurs that
distinction. . . . mayors don't need management advice on how
to improve their cities. They need resources to provide
critical services. . . . "
   In an interview yesterday, Mr. McIntrye says Jacksonville
is only mad because of its low rating and its mayor is
twisting the reasons for offering the seminar in order to
discredit the magazine's rankings. Besides, Mr. McIntyre
says, Financial World makes almost no money on the seminars
after hiring consultants and paying for overhead.
   Financial World, which is owned by Mr. McIntyre and a
partnership that includes Carl Lindner's American Financial
Corp., made news earlier this week when it dropped columnist
and compensation expert Graef Crystal, a critic of excessive
executive salaries. Financial World said they severed their
relationship with Mr. Crystal because of a question raised
about his methodology for calculating pay. Mr. McIntyre said
the decision was not based on pressure from advertisers, as
Mr. Crystal indicated may have been a factor.
   But Dallas, which received the No. 1 ranking, is also now
questioning Financial World's motives. After being ranked No.
7 last year, city officials were especially proud when the
magazine told them Dallas topped the current list. A smiling
Dallas mayor and city manager posed for the cover. But city
executives were unaware of Financial World's seminar offer
for low-ranking cities until a reporter told them about it
this week.
   Gail Cushing, a spokesman for Dallas City Manager Jan
Hart, says that if Financial World goes ahead with the
seminars, Dallas will consider refusing to cooperate in next
year's survey of cities. "Recognition like this helps us
market our city," says Ms. Cushing. "But if it's more than a
survey and article, if it involves charging people for a
seminar, we'd have to rethink our participation."
   Detroit city officials, meanwhile, refused to cooperate in
this year's survey because city officials there say Financial
World deceived them. In 1990, Financial World sent Detroit a
40-page questionnaire, saying it was conducting a "survey" of
big-city finances and management. But much to Detroit's
surprise, the results of the survey appeared in early 1991 as
a ranking and Detroit was dead last. "They misrepresented
themselves the first time around, so we decided we don't have
time to spend on this frivolous stuff," says Bob Berg, press
secretary to Detroit Mayor Coleman A. Young.
   Mr. McIntyre may have overestimated his magazine's clout.
In an interview he says the top-30 ranking of cities "is
pored over by the bond rating services who compare our
ratings with theirs. They say they have re-evaluated their
ratings after seeing ours."
   Richard Larkin, a managing director in Standard  Poor's
municipal ratings department, says the rating is looked at.
But "does it affect our ratings, do we factor it in?" he
adds. "Absolutely not. Their claims sound like a marketing
guy got carried away." David Ambler, a vice president at
Moody's Investors Service, says "I don't want to belittle
them, but their rankings have never affected our ratings." In
fact, he added, Financial World is not among the hundreds of
periodicals that Moody's public finance department subscribes
to.
   Mr. McIntyre says he will begin Monday to personally make
follow-up calls to see which cities are interested in the
seminar. He says that even if all the cities pay for the
seminar, they won't all be A+ by next year. "For many of them
it will take years," he says.
   Mr. McIntyre won't need to call Philadelphia, which came
in last this year. In a letter to Financial World, Mayor
Edward G. Rendell politely thanked the magazine for a chance
at the seminar. But he added, "Your magazine accurately
assessed our financial situation. Therefore, as you can
imagine, we are in no position to pay $10,000 for the
seminar."