Credit Markets:
   Bond Prices Move Up on Assertion by Greenspan
   That Fed Will Reduce Rates Again If Necessary
   ----
   By Constance Mitchell and Sharon R. King
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
Prices of mortgage-backed bonds kept pace with or
outperformed Treasurys while corporate bonds rose at slower
pace than Treasurys. But tax-exempt municipal bonds, weighted
down by recent supply and the absence of buyers, declined
yesterday.
   In the U.S. Treasury market, prices began to climb during
overnight trading in Japan and continued to advance during
European trading. Dealers in London said much of the buying
activity came from international funds that were moving cash
out of European bonds, especially German bunds, and moving
into U.S. Treasury notes and bonds.
   "A few of the more nimble international investors are
moving in that direction," said a bond trader in London,
adding that "it may be only for a week."
   The rally accelerated in the U.S. That was a welcome
change of pace for domestic investors and traders who, over
the past several weeks, have grown used to seeing U.S. bond
prices rise abroad, then decline during U.S. trading.
   Market analysts say the rally in bonds was extended
yesterday due to comments made by Mr. Greenspan, who told
Congress that the Fed will reduce interest rates again if
economic conditions warrant, although he believes that the
easing actions taken to date should be adequate to boost
economic activity. He also said that the Fed will consider
raising its open market purchases of long-term securities.
   Although his comments were very similar to those made last
week on Capital Hill, analysts said that bond market
participants this time around seemed to emphasize the Fed's
willingness to ease monetary conditions further. Last week,
market participants seemed to focus on his forecast that the
economy is on the road to economic recovery. Such news
worries bond investors because they fear that growth will
accelerate inflation and put upward pressure on interest
rates. Inflation and rising interest rates are bearish for
bonds.
   "Mr. Greenspan was trying to bend over backwards to allay
the market's fears about the door being closed to further
accommodation," said William Sullivan, director of money
market research at Dean Witter Reynolds Inc. "People are
embracing the potential for further Fed easing as a reason to
bid prices higher."
   Some traders say that bonds also were helped by the
reduced pace of new corporate bond issuance. So far this
year, corporations have issued between $35 billion and $40
billion of bonds, one of the busiest paces on record.
   Traders often hedge their inventories of unsold new
corporate bonds by selling Treasury bonds short, which often
caused bond prices to decline.
   George Kegler, a trader and senior vice president at A.
Webster Dougherty Co. in Philadelphia, says that much of the
hedging activity has ended -- at least for now -- because new
corporate bond issuance has slowed sharply in the past week
and because most of the bonds issued in recent weeks have
finally been absorbed.
   "We have had a lot of paper to underwrite in an
environment where there has been a small pool of money ready
for the fixed-income market," said Mr. Kegler, who believes
that some investors who switch between stocks and bonds have
tended to favor stocks in recent weeks due to that market's
strong performance.
   But some investors are taking another look at bonds, says
Mr. Kegler, now that yields have risen so sharply. Mr. Kegler
believes that bonds may have hit bottom and now are
recuperating.
   William Basa, an independent credit market analyst in
Pittsburgh, says there were technical factors also that
encouraged investors to buy bonds yesterday.
   He notes that the spread between yields on three-months
and 30-year bonds on Monday reached a wide four percentage
points, an event that in the past has been a signal that
bonds were ready to rally.
   "That level of a spread has occurred three times in the
last eight years and on all three occasions, the bonds
entered a rallying period," said Mr. Basa. "The minimum rally
on those three occasion" was 0.68 percentage point, said Mr.
Basa, meaning that yields on the benchmark 30-year bond
declined by that amount in the weeks after the rallies began.
   On the economic front, the market showed little reaction
to the latest car sales statistics. Sales of North
Americanmade automobiles are estimated to have reached a 6.1
million unit annual rate in late January. That's up from the
5.7 million unit annual rate of mid-January and the 5.3
million-unit annualized pace in the year-ago selling period.
   On tap for today, the Treasury will announce details of
its quarterly refunding of the federal debt at 2:30 p.m. EST.
Analysts expect the Treasury to announce that it will sell
between $38 billion and $40 billion of securities next week,
divided among three different maturities-three-year notes,
10-year notes and 30-year bonds.
   The key question for the financial markets is how the
Treasury will distribute its borrowing over the various
maturities and whether any amount will be shifted away from
long-term securities toward short-term securities, as is
widely expected. As previously reported, the Treasury is
considering cutting the size of the 10-year and 30-year
auctions and raise the size of shortterm securities auctions
to take advantage of low short-term interest rates.
   Meanwhile, the Federal Reserve will conclude its two-day
meeting of the Federal Open Market Committee. The FOMC is the
policy-making group that maps out monetary policy. The
Commerce Department will release its fourth-quarter report on
business productivity.
                                                                                                       

   Municipal Bonds
                                                                                                       

   Prices of tax-exempt bonds declined as much as 1/4 point
yesterday, bucking the trend in the broader bond market.
   Traders said there were two major reasons for the
municipal bond market's slide: new supply and the absence of
big municipal bond buyers, who were in Florida attending a
municipal bond market conference.
   "Municipal buyers left their desks unstaffed," leaving no
one around to purchase securities, said a trader in New York.
   But the market's problems didn't dissuade individual
investors from showing good interest in New York state's
offering of $85 million of general obligation bonds. The
bonds were sold competitively to a group led by PaineWebber
Inc.
   The better-than-expected demand from individuals, coupled
with a smattering of institutional investor purchases, left
underwriters holding an unsold balance of about $21.7 million
of bonds late in the session.
   The New York state GOs were priced to yield from 5% in
1994 to 7.10% in 2011 and 2012. Those yields are considered
relatively high for a municipality with an investment-grade
credit rating, although the yields nevertheless were lower
than some had expected. The GOs are rated single-A by Moody's
Investors Service Inc. and singleA-minus by Standard  Poor's
Corp.
   The yield on the two-year notes, which are exempt from
local, state and federal taxes for New York state residents,
is nearly as high as the yield on two-year Treasury notes,
which are not exempt from federal taxes. Two-year Treasury
notes ended yesterday at a yield of 5.07%.
   And despite recent weakness in the taxexempt market, most
long-term investment-grade issues still carry yields below
7%.
   Dealers said the bonds offer a haven for individuals
seeking some relief from New York's high personal income
taxes. In New York state's previous bond sale in November, it
sold $226 million of securities with a top yield of 6.80%.
                                                                                                       

   Mortgage  Asset-Backed Securities
                                                                                                       

   Prices of mortgage securities ended higher.
   Issuance of real estate mortgage investment conduits
continues to bolster the mortgage securities market. That's
because underwriters have been purchasing relatively large
amounts of mortgage securities to use as collateral in Remic
transactions.
   Remic issuers remain busy this month and aren't seen
trimming issuance much despite the fact that dealer shelves
are said to be heavy with unsold inventory. Both 15-year and
30-year mortgage securities are said to be actively sought as
Remic collateral for deals priced recently and deals that are
expected to soon be announced.
   In trading, Government National Mortgage Association 7.5%
securities for February delivery jumped 19/32 to 97 14/32,
Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp. 7.5% securities were up
15/32 at 96 17/32 and Federal National Mortgage Association
7.5% securities were 15/32 higher on the day at 96 10/32.
   In primary action, a $500 million Freddie Mac series Gold
1226 deal backed by the agency's Gold 8.5% issues was offered
by Goldman, Sachs  Co. Also, a $100 million Freddie Mac
series Gold 1227 deal backed by the agency's Gold 7%
seven-year balloon mortgage securities was offered by Merrill
Lynch  Co.
                                                                                                       

   Corporate  Junk Bonds
                                                                                                       

   Stop  Shop Cos. joined the growing line of companies
seeking to refinance high-cost debt with new, cheaper bonds.
   The Braintree, Mass., supermarket and discount department
store retailer offered $250 million of 10-year senior
subordinated notes priced to yield 9.75%.
   For Stop  Shop, which carries junk bond ratings from both
the major credit rating agencies, the new rate represents a
marked improvement from its current financing costs. Many of
its outstanding debt issues bear rates in the 12% to 13%
range.
   Joseph McGlinchey, chief financial officer at Stop  Shop,
said about $183 million of the proceeds will be used to
retire some of the company's existing debt. The remainder
will go toward general corporate purposes.
   The new securities were sold through underwriters led by
BT Securities Corp., a subsidiary of Bankers Trust New York
Corp.
   In the broader high-yield market, prices of most junk
bonds, or speculative-grade bonds with low credit ratings or
no credit ratings at all, ended 1/8 to 1/4 point higher.
   Investment-grade corporate bonds also rallied, chalking up
gains of 3/8 to 5/8 point.