USAir's Vice Chairman Malin Ousted,
   Apparently Blamed for Carrier's Woes
   ----
   By Brett Pulley
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
In a release, USAir's chief executive officer Seth
Schofield said that Mr. Malin resigned to pursue other
opportunities. But according to contacts inside the company,
an electronic memo was distributed among some midlevel
managers explaining that Mr. Malin was forced from the post.
   Mr. Malin refused to comment on his departure. A
spokeswoman for the airline said that his successor is
expected to be named soon.
   Additionally, Mr. Malin's fate also may have been sealed
almost two years ago when he lost out to Mr. Schofield to be
successor to Edwin Colodny as chief executive officer of
USAir.
   People close to Mr. Malin say that the 54-year-old
executive hadn't any plans to leave USAir, and was taken by
surprise Friday when asked by Mr. Schofield to resign.
Apparently, Mr. Malin obliged, immediately informing his
personal staff, and then spending Saturday clearing out his
office at the airline's headquarters.
   Whoever succeeds him inherits a major cost-cutting and
restructuring plan that has won high marks so far from
industry analysts. "Replacement for the slot of vice chairman
will be one of the important ingredients in turning USAir's
operations around," said Kevin Murphy, an airline analyst at
Morgan Stanley  Co. "The company has been making great
strides strategically, but they are still a little thin in
terms of management."
   In addition to cutting unprofitable service on the West
Coast and in the Midwest, USAir recently has rearranged its
fleet-growth program to enhance liquidity and is now
negotiating with labor unions to achieve wage-and-benefit
concessions.
   Results of an independent financial analysis, commissioned
by the airline's Air Line Pilots Association members, is
expected to be completed this week. Based on that analysis,
the airline's 6,000 pilots may agree to some form of
concessions as part of open contract negotiations. Contract
talks are scheduled to resume next week, and any concessions
reached with the pilots could set a precedent for USAir's
41,000 other employees.
   Mr. Malin, who joined USAir in 1980 as senior vice
president for marketing, worked 20 years at AMR Corp.'s
American Airlines, where he last served as vice president,
sales and advertising.
   In 1989, he and Mr. Schofield were simultaneously named as
vice chairmen of USAir Group, pitting them in a head-to-head
competition to succeed Mr. Colodny.
   Since 1990, when 52-year-old Mr. Schofield became the
heir-apparent, relations between the two have at times been
strained, according to people familiar with the company.
   "When you have a turnaround in the management of any
corporation, the chemistry has got to be good," said Lee
Howard, a personal friend of Mr. Malin's and president of
Airline Economics Inc., an airline consulting firm.
   For 1991, USAir Group reported a net loss of $305.3
million, compared with a net loss of $454.4 million a year
earlier. In composite trading on the New York Stock Exchange
yesterday, USAir common closed at $16.25, up 25 cents.