How Some Flub
   Muni Bond Moves
   ----
   By Jonathan P. Clements
In the past three years, $43.2 billion of new money has
come hurtling into muni funds, including $21.2 billion last
year alone. Investors can't seem to resist the notion that
these funds generate income that is exempt from federal taxes
and, in some cases, state and local taxes. Muni fund sales
are especially strong at this time of year, as anguished
taxpayers seek revenge on the Internal Revenue Service.
   Most of these eager investors no doubt buy muni funds for
perfectly sensible reasons. But a few are, well, not quite so
rational.
   A case in point: There's a small, befuddled group of
people who invest their Individual Retirement Account money
in a municipal bond fund. Earning tax-free income doesn't do
you any good with an IRA, because money earned on all IRA
investments builds up tax-free until it's withdrawn.
   In May 1990, Baltimore's T. Rowe Price Associates wrote to
investors who owned municipal bond funds in their IRAs,
explaining the error of their ways. Only 40% of those
contacted switched funds. Today, the firm has 375,000 IRA
accounts, 91 of which hold municipal bond funds.
   Investors in the T. Rowe Price Tax-Free Income Fund, for
instance, are settling for a tax-sheltered 6.26% when, in the
same IRA, they could be getting a tax-sheltered 7.95% on the
T. Rowe Price GNMA Fund.
   "You always have a few lingering cases like that," says
Steven Norwitz, a T. Rowe Price spokesman. "It's really odd."
   Then there's the strange breed that owns a single-state
municipal bond fund -- from the wrong state. "I've heard
about that," says Stephen Schoepke, an analyst with fund
researchers Lipper Analytical Services. "I think they buy the
funds because they like the state. They have an affinity for
Texas or Colorado or some place. It kind of makes you
wonder." Fidelity Investments, the Boston mutual fund giant,
says investors will sometimes try to buy the wrong
single-state muni fund. "Occasionally we get requests from
people who work in New York City but live in New Jersey who
want to buy a New York muni fund," says Heidi Baxter,
Fidelity's marketing manager for tax-free funds. "Somehow
they think they'll alleviate their New York taxes." Wrong.
   Alternately, an investor moves to a new state but never
gets around to selling his old single-state muni fund.
Single-state funds kick off income that is exempt not only
from federal taxes but from state taxes as well -- provided
you live in that state. If you live in another state, you
don't get this exemption.
   In addition, because some single-state funds pay lower
yields than multistate muni funds, investors may be cutting
into their returns if they own the wrong single-state fund.
   "Where we can, we try to tell people that maybe they
shouldn't be doing that," Ms. Baxter says.
   Some fund groups seem to go out of their way to cater to
Americans' distaste for taxes. According to Lipper
Analytical, there are 17 single-state muni funds for Florida
and six for Texas. Yet neither state currently has a state
income tax, though Florida does have a small tax on
intangible assets.
   About two years ago, Mackenzie Investment Management Inc.
of Boca Raton, Fla., considered launching a Florida
single-state municipal bond fund. The firm decided against
it, believing that the minute gain from avoiding the
intangibles tax didn't compensate for the lack of
diversification that would result from only owning Florida
bonds.
   "It didn't make a lot of fundamental sense, but it does
make a lot of marketing sense," says Michael Landry,
Mackenzie's president.
   In fact, the 17 Florida-only funds now command more than
$2 billion in assets. "Who knows how much money we would have
raised," Mr. Landry says wistfully. Franklin Resources, a San
Mateo, Calif. fund group, manages the largest single-state
Texas fund. But isn't it ludicrous to have a single-state
fund, if there's no state income tax? Not at all, says
Gregory Johnson, a Franklin marketing vice president.
   He notes that there has been talk of introducing a Texas
income tax. If that happens, Texas municipal bonds would
probably rise in value, benefiting those who own Franklin's
Texas muni fund. For Texas residents, "you also have a pride
of ownership" in holding local bonds, Mr. Johnson says.
   Municipal bond funds are generally bought by investors in
the 28% or higher tax brackets. These investors often find
that a muni fund's tax-exempt income is more valuable to them
than the higher but taxable dividends kicked off by a
comparable government or corporate bond fund.
   For people in lower tax brackets, that often isn't the
case. Nonetheless, many lower-income investors buy muni funds
simply to avoid paying taxes -- even though they could reap a
higher yield by gritting their teeth, buying a taxable
security and paying the darn tax.
   "I've seen that several times," says Kurt Brouwer,
president of Brouwer  Janachowski, a San Francisco
investment adviser. "We just hate taxes. If it's anything
tax-free, the whole thought process goes out the window."