International:
   Miyazawa to Face
   Dual Challenge
   In South Korea
   ----
   By Damon Darlin
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Receiving the most attention now is the issue of "comfort
women," 200,000 Korean girls and women forced to serve as
prostitutes for the Japanese army during World War II. Under
pressure from Seoul, Mr. Miyazawa this week issued an apology
for Japan's wartime treatment of Korean women; he is expected
to repeat the apology while in Korea. But he won't announce
compensation for the women and for 250,000 victims of Japan's
wartime forced labor camps, as some Korean groups are
demanding, Japanese officials said.
   Japan says such issues were resolved when bilateral
relations were established in 1965, but many Koreans say
Tokyo hasn't done enough. Protests are scheduled during Mr.
Miyazawa's visit, and a few legislators say they will boycott
his speech before the National Assembly tomorrow. Mr.
Miyazawa will be the first Japanese premier to address the
body.
   Anti-Japanese sentiment among Koreans, which stems from
Japan's often brutal colonization of Korea in the first half
of this century, has been exacerbated by South Korea's
widening trade deficit with Japan. Last year, the gap reached
$9 billion, accounting for almost all of South Korea's total
trade deficit of $9.6 billion and up 34% from $6.7 billion in
1990.
   One area where the two sides are likely to be in agreement
is in international diplomatic efforts to draw North Korea
out of self-imposed isolation. Largely due to its proximity,
Japan has as much an interest as South Korea in ensuring that
North Korea doesn't build nuclear weapons. Tokyo has been
pressuring Pyongyang to allow international inspections of
its nuclear facilities.
   Likewise, both countries are coordinating a defense
against having to open their agricultural markets to imports
in the current round of multilateral trade talks under the
General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade in Geneva.
   Korean officials say they want concrete results from Mr.
Miyazawa's visit. Seoul is demanding that Tokyo halve import
tariffs on 16 items that Korea thinks it has a comparative
advantage in producing. Though Japan's average tariff rate is
less than 3%, it imposes a stiff 16.8% tariff on knitted
goods and blouses, 20% on commercial leather, and 25% on
polypropylene, a plastic resin. For its part, Korea bans
imports of a long list of Japanese goods, including autos and
some electronic products, to keep its trade deficit with
Japan down.
   Seoul also is demanding that Tokyo lower barriers that
keep Korean companies out of Japan's lucrative construction
market, and it is asking that Japan contribute to a fund that
will help develop technology for Korean companies. South
Korean officials have long asked for greater transfer of
technology from Japan. But Japan sees little benefit from
helping its competitors, and Tokyo argues that it can't force
companies to share technology with rivals.