New Stock Listings
The Big Board began trading the following initial
offerings: SPS Transaction Services Inc., Riverwoods, Ill., a
credit card transactions processing concern, under PAY;
Callaway Golf Co., Carlsbad, Calif., a golf club maker, under
ELY; Cross Timbers Royalty Trust, Fort Worth, Texas, under
CRT; HCA-Hospital Corp. of America, Nashville, Tenn., a
hospital management company, under HCA; Coleman Co., Wichita,
Kan., a camping and recreational products maker, under CLN;
Musicland Stores Corp., Minneapolis, a chain of music and
video entertainment stores, under MLG; and Van Kampen
Merritt Trust for Insured Municipals, Oakbrook, Ill., a
closed-end management investment company, under VIM.
   The Big Board also began trading the following issues
previously traded over the counter: Piper Jaffray Inc.,
Minneapolis, a financial services company, under PJC;
Allwaste Inc., Houston, an environmental services concern,
under ALW; Citizens Utilities Co., Stamford, Conn., a
utilities company, under CZN.A for Series A and CZN.B for
Series B common.
   Fidelity National Financial Inc., Irvine, Calif., a title
insurance company previously traded on the Amex, begins
trading today under FNF.
                                                                                                       

   The Amex began trading the following initial offerings:
North American Recycling Systems Inc., Fort Edward, N.Y.; a
spinoff of Conversion Industries Inc., Pasadena, Calif., its
shares are trading on a when-issued basis under NAR.WI,
rights are trading under NAR.RT, and warrants are trading on
a when-issued basis under NAR.WS.WI; and Smith Barney
Intermediate Municipal Fund Inc., New York, a closed-end
management investment company, under symbol SBI.
   The Amex also began trading Specialty Chemical Resources,
Cleveland, a specialty chemical products maker, under CHM;
Waterhouse Investor Services Inc., New York, a discount
brokerage company, under WHO; and Farragut Mortgage Co.,
Mansfield, Mass., a residential mortgage banking company,
under FMS. All previously traded over the counter.
                                                                                                       

   The National Market System of the over-the-counter market
began trading the following initial offerings: Access Health
Marketing Inc., Citrus Heights, Calif., an information and
referral marketing provider for the health care industry,
under ACCS; Forstmann  Co., New York, a fabric maker, under
FSTM; i-Stat Corp., Princeton, N.J., a blood analysis
products maker, under STAT; Litchfield Financial Corp.,
Williamstown, Mass., a consumer finance company, under LTCH;
Scholastic Corp., New York, a children's educational
materials publisher, under SCHL; and Synopsys Inc., Mountain
View, Calif., a software company, under SNPS.
   Radiation Care Inc., Atlanta, a radiation therapy centers
operator, was added to the National Market System. It
previously traded on the Nasdaq system. BioSpecifics
Technologies Corp., Lynbrook, N.Y., a pharmaceuticals
company, under BSTC, Emisphere Technologies Inc., Elmsford,
N.Y., a pharmaceuticals company, under EMIS, and Staar
Surgical Co., Monrovia, Calif., a surgical products concern,
under STAA, all of which previously traded on Nasdaq, will
begin trading on the National Market System tomorrow.
   Two companies that currently trade on the "pink sheets"
will commence trading concurrently on the National Market
System and Nasdaq tomorrow: FM Bancorp, Frederick, Md., a
bank holding company, under FBMN; and First Financial Corp.,
a bank holding company, under THFF.
                                                                                                       

   Separately, the Amex began trading Long-Term Equity
Anticipation Securities, or Leaps, on Triton Energy Corp. and
Westinghouse Electric Co. Leaps have longer terms than
regular stock options.
                                                                                                       

   The Chicago Board Options Exchange began trading options
on Plains Resources Inc., Houston.