Super Bowl, Super Bore
   ----
   By Doug Bandow
Since then, the frenetic enthusiasm has only escalated.
Two weeks ago I was out and about after church and was asked
time and again, "Are you going to watch the game?" Not just
any game -- THE GAME. After all, how could any decent
resident of the Washington area not watch the Redskins
pummel, destroy, smash, crush and do everything else that
loyal fans always know, beyond doubt, that their team will do
to the opposition, the Detroit Lions?
   But, obviously, I'm neither a decent Washingtonian nor a
normal male. Because, quite frankly, I don't give a damn.
   Part of the problem, I suppose, is that I don't understand
the game. Of course, I could probably learn the rules. After
all, I graduated from both college and law school, which
proves that I'm capable of filling my mind with boundless
amounts of illogical and worthless information. But I just
don't find the game interesting. Grown men (well, almost,
anyway) carry, kick and throw a "ball" (I've always been
taught that a ball was round) back and forth on a field with
lines on it. How purposeless. How -- dare I say it? --
boring.
   But even if I found the sight of 25-year-old
multimillionaires scrambling around in the mud to be
interesting, why should I care which side wins? I mean, so
what? The result doesn't save a life. No nation is freed from
dictatorship. No marriage is saved (but many are probably
broken up by husbands devoting every waking hour to watching
the silly game). No souls are redeemed from sin.
   Indeed, the fervent loyalty people show to "their" team is
even more bizarre for professional than college competition
because at least university players pretend to attend the
schools that they represent. Members of the Buffalo Bills and
Washington Redskins belong to their clubs because the teams
drafted them or traded for them, not because the players
chose to play in those particular places; it is ample
compensation, not love of city, that keeps them playing
there.
   Yet some people obviously still care, and care very much,
about the result of Sunday's game. In the two weeks preceding
THE ULTIMATE GAME, you couldn't pick up a paper or turn on a
radio in the nation's capital (which is, of course, supposed
to be concerned at least a little about other matters)
without seeing or hearing praise of the Redskins. It's
equally bad in Buffalo, I'm told. Incessant interviews,
discussions of strategy . . . it was as if the Allies were
landing at Normandy -- and this happens every year]
   But to verbalize these thoughts is to demonstrate to one's
associates that one has a mental problem. In their view, the
malady may be curable, but professional help is needed; one
friend suggested that I join a 12-step program. (Less
charitable associates consider you to be disloyal and
downright dangerous, rather like those spies in old war
movies who didn't know who won the World Series.)
   Nevertheless, I've decided to come out of the closet. I
don't like football and I don't care who wins Sunday. If I'm
ostracized as a result of my candor, discriminated against,
oppressed -- then so be it. Someone has to take the first
step to defend what has, until now, been the indefensible --
males who don't like football.
   ---
   Mr. Bandow, a fellow at the Cato Institute, was always the
last kid picked for team sports in gym class.