Foreign Exchange:
   Dollar Continues to Advance on the Yen
   But Weakens Against European Units
   ----
   By John van Rosendaal
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
In early trading in Tokyo Wednesday, the dollar was at
125.52 yen, up from 125.37 yen at Tuesday's close. Meanwhile,
the U.S. currency was trading at 1.6000 marks, down from
1.6098 marks Tuesday.
   Traders mostly stayed on the sidelines, uncertain how Mr.
Bush's speech before Congress last night would affect the
dollar. The president was expected to focus on the country's
ailing economy.
   Market analysts said the president might provide the
dollar with some short-term direction, but expressed doubts
over more substantial results. "I don't think, honestly, {the
speech} is going to have a major impact," said Jack
Annunziato, a corporate foreign-exchange trader at PruBache
Forex.
   The dollar was pressured by a weaker-than-expected measure
of consumer sentiment in the U.S. The Conference Board's
Consumer Confidence Index for January -- which uses a 1985
base of 100 -- was 50.4, a loss of 2.1 points from 52.5 in
December, when it leveled off after declining sharply in the
previous two months. Market expectations had called for a
January figure of 52.0.
   Talk that the Federal Reserve Bank of New York and the
Deutsche Bundesbank were either checking rates or intervening
against the dollar contributed to the currency's weakness,
and caused it to drop to its intraday low of 1.5935 marks in
late European trading.
   Analysts later discounted the intervention talk as
unsubstantiated and unlikely, but said fears of intervention
in dollar-yen dealings around 127 yen are still overhanging
the market. The Fed and the Bank of Japan sold dollars at
127.20 yen on Jan. 17, indicating a desire to keep the
Japanese currency strong against the dollar.
   And Japan's finance minister, Tsutomu Hata, Tuesday said
the ministry would continue to watch the foreign-exchange
market with concern and respond accordingly. The dollar rose
1.4% against the yen Monday after the G-7 failed to boost the
yen, as was widely expected. Japanese officials, including
Mr. Hata, have repeatedly said they prefer the dollar to
trade between 122 and 125 yen.
   The absence of a specific G-7 reference to a stronger yen
and the widely expected rally in the Japanese currency that
such a statement would have triggered led dealers to unwind
long, or overbought, positions built up last week in the
Japanese currency. They largely reversed their yen holdings
for marks, adding to the dollar's mixed performance.
   The yen was further pressured by weak Japanese retail
sales figures for December, showing the slowest year-to-year
growth since March 1990.
   The yen might sag more in the future, as speculation
mounts that the Bank of Japan has to ease monetary policy to
stimulate the economy and to prevent the Nikkei index of 225
leading stocks from dropping to the 20000 level, traders
said. The Tokyo stock market has been weak in recent weeks,
but rebounded somewhat Tuesday, closing at 21390.52, up
1.83%.
   The mark, on the other hand, got help from a surprisingly
strong growth in the German M-3 money supply in December. M-3
expanded at an annualized and seasonally adjusted 5.7% in
December from 5.1% in November, and grew a seasonally
adjusted 5.2% in the 1991 fourth quarter measured vs. the
year-ago quarter. Both growth rates exceeded the Bundesbank's
1991 M-3 target growth of 3% to 5%.
   M-3 is composed of cash in circulation, most forms of
savings, as well as sight deposits and time deposits of less
than four years. The strong figures are more likely to
prevent the German central bank from easing its monetary
policy in the near term, a move that would hurt the mark.
   The Bundesbank needs to protect its monetary credibility
by bringing money-supply growth back in line with stated
goals, directorate member Otmar Issing said following the
data's release.
   But the German currency's strength is limited because of
growing tensions and warning strikes over wage talks.
   The impact of the Japanese and German data in dollar
trading was limited, however, because of the market's caution
ahead of the Bush speech, traders said.