Politics  Policy:
   Brown's Tax Plan Blurs the Distinction
   Between `Conservative' and `Liberal'
   ----
   By Alan Murray
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
In election year rhetoric, black often seems white. But
Mr. Brown's tax proposal may have taken that practice to new
extremes. "I'm hard pressed to see how it all adds up," says
Henry Aaron, tax expert at Washington's Brookings
Institution.
   On its face, Mr. Brown's plan is elegantly simple. He
would eliminate all existing federal taxes and replace them
with two new taxes. One would be a flat 13% tax on all
income; the other would be a 13% "value-added" tax on all
goods and services. The only deductions would be for
charitable contributions, mortgage interest, rent and Social
Security and other government transfer payments.
   He and his advisers don't like to discuss details of the
plan. "We're talking concepts here," says Lee Newman, a
retired real estate developer who is Mr. Brown's volunteer
issues adviser. "We don't want to get into the nitty-gritty
about whether carrots are taxed and cauliflower not."
   But even the concepts are muddled. Many conservative
economists argue that such a plan might provide economic
benefits, by reducing the tax burden on savings and
investment. But Mr. Brown chooses instead to defend his plan
as a matter of social fairness. "Those earning less than
$100,000 annually will pay less in taxes" under his plan, he
says, while "those people who make more than $100,000 will
pay proportionally more."
   A look at the details of the plan suggests just the
opposite is true. Congressional estimates derived from
Internal Revenue Service figures show that people who now
earn more than $100,000 a year pay on average 20% to 25% of
their income in federal income taxes. Under Mr. Brown's plan,
that average would fall to 11% or 12%. Those earning under
$40,000 a year, on the other hand, would see their tax rates
rise under Mr. Brown's plan.
   Mr. Brown counters by noting his plan also eliminates the
Social Security payroll tax, which Mr. Newman calls "the most
regressive tax anybody ever invented"because it hits the poor
and middle class far harder than the rich. But economists say
the value-added tax that would replace that levy is just as
regressive.
   Mr. Brown parries that criticism by saying his value-added
tax would be paid by businesses and their shareholders. "That
person who is rich and who, for the most part, owns
corporations will have to pay this new value-added tax," he
said on CBS News's Face the Nation program.
   Mr. Newman, on the other hand, acknowledges -- like the
vast majority of tax experts -- that the value-added tax is
"a type of consumption tax." Even though it would be
collected from companies, it would result in higher prices
paid by consumers.
   That's different from a corporate profits tax, whose
burden -- economists believe -- falls largely on a company's
shareholders. In a move that big business would regard with
glee, Mr. Brown would eliminate the corporate profits tax
altogether.
   Because low-income people tend to spend more of their
income -- and save less-than high-income people, the Brown
value-added tax would hit most heavily at the bottom of the
scale. Moreover, while value-added tax systems in other
countries exempt basic necessities such as food, Mr. Brown's
plan doesn't.
   The bottom line, according to Robert McIntyre of the
labor-backed Citizens for Tax Justice, is that Mr. Brown's
tax plan would triple taxes on the poor, raise taxes on
middle-income families by 28%, and cut taxes on the nation's
richest by a third.
   Mr. Newman insists that isn't Mr. Brown's intention, and
says the plan could be refined to address such problems.
"We'd have to make something down at the bottom work out," he
says. "We're not inhuman, you know." But Mr. Aaron argues
that with a single-rate system, it is inevitable that "you
end up sacrificing progressivity."
   Mr. Brown's tax plan was devised by the candidate's
volunteer campaign advisers with a few back-of-the-envelope
calculations. They took Commerce Department estimates of the
nation's personal income and of final sales, made a few
adjustments, and then calculated the tax rate necessary to
get as much revenue as the current system. The magic number:
13%.
   But that calculation overlooks some big problems. The
department's personal-income figures, for instance, include
all tax-free fringe benefits, such as health care and pension
contributions. Mr. Newman, after being informed of this
problem, said "in general, they would not be included."
   The calculation also assumes that the poorest Americans
will begin paying taxes on their first dollar of income and
spending. That's far tougher on the poor than other flat-tax
plans, such as the one designed by conservative economists
Robert Hall and Alvin Rabushka, which wouldn't impose taxes
on the first $16,000 a person spends.
   Mr. Brown might have benefited from some expert help from
Messrs. Hall and Rabushka; Mr. Hall says the Brown campaign
has in fact tried to contact him. But the advice isn't
forthcoming. "I haven't returned any of their calls," he
explains. "Brown has been an active protectionist. It's
terribly troubling to me."