Smith Barney Tries
   Soft and Hard Sells
   To Retain Clients
   ---
   An Unconventional Letter
   Uses New Tactic in Battle
   Among Brokerage Firms
   ----
   By William Power
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Smith Barney, the brokerage unit of Primerica Corp., is
promising the discounts for the year ahead to an undisclosed
number of customers in its White Plains, N.Y., branch. The
lucky investors getting the letter are those whose brokers
have jumped ship to other firms -- and who Smith Barney fears
will transfer accounts to follow them.
   That's the soft-sell part of the letter. Next comes the
hard sell: The letter goes on to "remind" investors of
penalties, in the form of termination fees, should they
decide to go ahead and transfer individual retirement
accounts and other holdings. (The IRA termination fee is $50,
a company spokesman says.)
   The "Dear Valued Customer" letter, dated Feb. 14, is
signed by branch manager Dennis A. Schmidt.
   The letter is the latest wrinkle in the battle among Wall
Street brokerage firms for each other's brokers and clients.
Brokerage-company executives say that while it is common for
firms to fight for valued clients -- often by offering
discounts -- when a broker defects, they can't remember when
a firm has spelled out such inducements so formally. One
problem is that Smith Barney customers who don't get the
letter are sure to howl when they hear that others are
getting 50% discounts.
   Smith Barney concedes the letter is unusual. A company
spokesman says: "All I can say is that while this is not a
standard policy at Smith Barney or anyplace else, various
firms at various times do offer incentives to retain client
accounts. And whether it's this type of thing, or making
special offers like free portfolio reviews, it's done. Again,
it's not a standard policy here or anywhere else." He adds
that the warning about termination fees is a helpful
reminder.
   The company said Mr. Schmidt was on vacation this week,
and he couldn't be reached for comment; others at the White
Plains office declined to comment.
   Some brokers left Smith Barney in the past couple of
months after the brokerage firm started deferring part of
their pay in a plan designed to keep brokers tied more
closely to the firm.