Board of Contributors:
   The Clinton Scandal in Victorian Perspective
   ----
   By Arthur Schlesinger Jr.
Of course we have been through this before. In 1884, at
the height of the prim Victorian age, a "despised Buffalo
rag" (in the words of the historian Allan Nevins) ran a story
under the headline "A Terrible Tale." According to the
Buffalo Evening Telegraph, Grover Cleveland, a former mayor
of Buffalo, governor of New York and now the Democratic
candidate for president, had fathered, 10 years before, an
illegitimate son. Cleveland had assumed financial
responsibility and, when the mother, Maria Halpin, became an
alcoholic, he put the boy in an orphanage.
   At first, according to the New York World, "The scandal
fell flat. Not one respectable newspaper in the East referred
to it, and only one newspaper of extended circulation in the
West." Then Republican politicians persuaded the Boston
Journal to print the scandal on the front page "with glaring
headlines, editorial reference, and all the devices which a
newspaper may employ to secure attention to one of its
articles." The Republican press took up the story, as Mr.
Nevins writes, "with cackling glee."
   Cleveland wired an old friend in Buffalo, "Whatever you
do, tell the truth." But he made no statement of his own to
the press. In those blessed days before "60 Minutes,"
reporters did not harass presidential candidates about their
sex lives. Still the story thrived. Republican torchlight
parades chanted, "Ma] Ma] Where's my pa?" In October, fearing
that the scandal would be "enlarged and amended . . . just
before the election," Cleveland wrote a friend: "I still hear
that there is an intention to publish letters of a very
dreadful kind written by me to the woman. If any such appear
they will be forgeries, and I propose to be ready for them."
   Fortunately for Cleveland, the Republican candidate, James
G. Blaine, though a model of devotion to his wife and family,
had a tainted public career. About the same time that
Cleveland began sleeping with Maria Halpin, Blaine, then
speaker of the House, was involved in the celebrated Credit
Mobilier scandal, in which influential legislators received
stock in a railroad company whose crooked dealings they
sought to protect from congressional investigation. The
so-called Mulligan Letters documented Blaine's involvement,
and Blaine's own notation on one of his letters to Mulligan
-- "Burn this letter" -- became a Democratic campaign chant
in 1884.
   The Cleveland-Blaine contrast confronted the voters with a
dilemma. Edwin L. Godkin, editor of the then influential
Nation magazine, asked: Which was better for the presidency
-- a man who, like Oliver Cromwell, Benjamin Franklin,
Alexander Hamilton and Daniel Webster, had been unchaste? Or
a man who had sold his official influence for money and had
broken his word in order to destroy evidence of his
corruption?
   "We are told," observed a leader of the Mugwumps
(Republicans who refused to support their party's candidate
in 1884), "that Mr. Blaine has been delinquent in office but
blameless in private life, while Mr. Cleveland had been a
model of official integrity, but culpable in his personal
relations. We should therefore elect Mr. Cleveland to the
public office which he is so well qualified to fill, and
remand Mr. Blaine to the private station which he is
admirably fitted to adorn." That is what those stodgy
Victorian voters proceeded to do. Democrats now chanted: "Ma]
Ma] where's my pa? Gone to the White House. Ha] Ha] Ha]"
   The 1884 incident is not irrelevant to 1992. What does it
matter if a presidential candidate has committed adultery? A
couple of political scientists wrote fatuously in the New
York Times: "If Governor Clinton has not been able to keep
his marital vows, voters might rightly wonder whether he
could be trusted to keep campaign promises." Come on]
Historians can easily expand E.L. Godkin's list of admirable
public servants who failed to keep their marital vows.
   I am reminded of the year when the Robert F. Kennedy Book
Award was divided between David Garrow's biography of Martin
Luther King Jr. and Elizabeth Becker's book on Cambodia,
"When the War Was Over." It was also the year when Gary Hart
had his troubles. In conversation with the two authors it
emerged that Dr. King, while a man of wayward sexual
proclivities who conspicuously failed to keep his marital
vows, was nonetheless a noble leader who had greatly served
the republic. Pol Pot of Cambodia, on the other hand, was a
model family man who never looked at another woman. All he
did was murder a million of his countrymen.
   Can we not have done with the adultery test? If Mrs.
Clinton is satisfied with her marriage, why in the world is
it the business of some jerk on "60 Minutes" to pry into the
Clintons' personal affairs? Is this what a heretofore
reputable television program regards as a major issue facing
a country deep in recession, its competitiveness in decline,
its race relations worsening, its infrastructure crumbling,
its cities rotting, disparities between wealth and poverty
increasing, crime and violence spreading?
   Let's not be hypocritical in these matters. Any candidate
who could command the adultery vote would do very well in an
election. Does no one remember the biblical injunction that
he that is without sin should first cast a stone? And let no
one forget Macaulay's comment that he knew "no spectacle so
ridiculous as the British public in one of its periodical
fits of morality."
   Happily the American public, if polls can be believed, is
considerably more mature than "60 Minutes" or "Nightline" in
its attitude toward sex. Life is complicated and not amenable
to glib judgments. Privacy is one of the inestimable values
of a free society. Prurience is one of the more degrading
expressions of human weakness. Pompous fellows interrogating
candidates about their sex lives make the U.S. look
ridiculous before the world. Let us leave private lives alone
and spend a little time worrying about the large and
dangerous issues that shadow the future of the republic.
   ---
   Mr. Schlesinger is Albert Schweitzer professor of the
humanities at the City University of New York and a winner of
Pulitzer Prizes in history and biography.