Foreign Exchange:
   Dollar Surges on Mideast Rumblings,
   Signs of Improvement in U.S. Economy
   ----
   By Charlene Lee
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
The dollar's uptrend began during the Asian session on
speculative buying, which forced others to buy back recently
established short-dollar holdings.
   The buying also picked up steam on news reports that the
Pentagon had given President Bush a set of military options
to force Iraq to comply with a United Nations resolution to
eliminate its weapons of mass destruction. The reports "may
have been used as a pretext" to buy dollars, said Marilyn
Schreiber, senior foreign-exchange analyst in New York for
Technical Data. As the dollar surged, investors who had sold
dollars on the bet it had further to drop were forced to buy
them back to cover their short positions.
   With the approach of a March 26 deadline supposedly set by
the U.N. for Iraqi compliance, "people are going to be a
little wary being short {dollars} out there," said Kevin
Weir, a vice president in New York for Canadian Imperial Bank
of Commerce. The U.N., however, later denied setting such a
deadline.
   The dollar's status as a "safe haven" currency got a
further boost when the State Department announced that the
U.S., Britain and France will ask the U.N. Security Council
to impose a mandatory air embargo against Libya. U.S.
citizens in Libya were advised to leave the country
immediately. The embargo would be in retaliation for Libya's
refusal to cooperate with previous U.N. resolutions
concerning the bombing of Pan Am Flight 103 over Scotland in
December 1988.
   In making the announcement, the State Department said
Libya had ignored a Jan. 21 resolution demanding a "full and
effective" response to U.S. and British requests for the
surrender of two Libyans wanted in the bombing.
   Although the dollar strengthened, Lee Kassler, assistant
vice president in New York for National Westminster Bank USA,
noted the currency is still within its recent trading range
of 1.6400 to 1.6800 marks. He said the dollar wound up the
North American session just below 1.6725 marks, a critical
point on technical charts and the session's high. "If we
break 1.6720-1.6730 marks, I believe we'll run up to 1.6800
marks," he said.
   On the upside, many dealers have targeted 1.6800 marks for
the dollar. Last week, the U.S. currency momentarily touched
1.6815 marks, its high so far this year. For most of the
second half of the North American session, the dollar hovered
between 1.6700 and 1.6725 marks. Analysts said the market,
thinned by a snow storm in New York, failed to muster the
momentum to carry the dollar higher.
   Because of a holiday Friday in Japan, analysts are
uncertain whether the 1.6800-mark resistance level will be
broken Friday, but they said Thursday's close above 1.6700
marks puts that resistance point within reach.
   Against its Japanese counterpart, traders said
participants have targeted the dollar's resistance levels
around 134.00 yen. They said, however, that dollar-yen
movements have become harder to call with the approach of the
Japanese fiscal year-end March 31.
   "For the most part, people are going to wait until after
March 31 {to trade in yen}. There are people who feel the yen
will weaken once the end-of-year adjustments are made,
especially if the Deutsche Bundesbank tightens policy," said
Ms. Schreiber of Technical Data. "Over the past couple of
weeks, there have been so many U-turns in dollar-yen
{trading}, so that's provoked a little caution."
   Traders and analysts also said other news on Thursday,
although not directly boosting the dollar, added to its
firmer tone. The headlines included U.S. weekly jobless
claims and January trade data and an announcement that
Germany's monetary policy remains steady.
   Initial claims for state unemployment insurance fell a
steeper-than-expected 27,000 in the week ended March 7
compared with a revised increase of 23,000 the previous week.
Economists generally had expected a decline of 15,000 claims.
   The U.S. trade deficit in January narrowed to a seasonally
adjusted $5.77 billion from a revised $6 billion gap in
December. The December trade deficit was earlier estimated at
$5.94 billion.
   Dealers said many market players greeted with relief an
announcement that the Deutsche Bundesbank's policy-setting
Central Bank Council, which met yesterday, left key interest
rates unchanged.