International:
   Japanese Consensus Pans Bush's Visit
   Amid Lingering Images of U.S. Decline
   ----
   By Christopher J. Chipello
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Cartoonists seized on the symbolism.
   A caricature in the Sankei newspaper showed Mr. Miyazawa
propping up a tottering Mr. Bush, trying to revive the
president by saying, "We've made the car makers promise to
import cars and parts." Mr. Bush, hoping for another
concession, replies, "T-Tell me one more thing."
   A drawing in the Asahi newspaper portrayed a benign Mr.
Miyazawa bearing a tray of rice porridge and telling the
bedridden U.S. president, "It's good for your stomach." But
Mr. Bush grumbles, "Make it with American rice," a reference
to Japan's ban on rice imports.
   In conversations with a range of Japanese, from taxi
drivers to business executives, a common sentiment has
emerged in the past few days: The U.S. is in trouble, and
it's Japan's turn to help.
   "The U.S. helped us a lot in the past," said Toshiaki
Tanzawa, the 75-year-old head of an industry group for
do-it-yourself hardware stores. "We must do the best we can
to help the U.S. now."
   Others expressed sympathy for Mr. Bush, but irritation at
the loud complaining from the auto executives he brought with
him. "I understand Mr. Bush's position," said an advertising
copywriter, a woman in her 50s who was among the crowd at a
corporate reception Friday. "We have to cooperate. We're past
the stage where we can worry only about ourselves," she said.
"But what bothered me was the Big Three car companies. They
should make better cars," instead of rude demands.
   Mr. Bush tried to appeal to Japanese consumers by arguing
that freer markets would enable them to buy quality goods at
cheaper prices, an argument that has won support from some
Japanese during trade talks of the past two years. But the
action plan announced Thursday seemed to many Japanese to
defy the principles of free-market economics that Americans
so often preach.
   In television talk shows over the weekend, commentators
complained that if Japanese consumers wanted U.S. cars, the
Japanese government wouldn't have to be arm-twisting Japanese
auto makers into promising to import them. And many worried
that, although the import plans had been presented by the
Tokyo government as voluntary corporate goals, the U.S. would
treat them as a national promise and other countries would
follow suit.
   "It would be only natural for a European country to say,
`You promised to buy $19 billion of auto parts from the U.S.,
so you should promise to buy a few billion worth from us,'"
said one university professor. Indeed, in an official visit
to Britain, Japan's International Trade and Industry
Minister, Kozo Watanabe, said Friday that Tokyo's new
import-promotion measures would apply not only to the U.S.
but also to Europe and other regions.
   Some commentators and newspaper editorials found cause for
optimism in the high-minded, if somewhat vague, Tokyo
partnership declaration. The document, which Mr. Miyazawa had
hoped would be the focus of the meetings, calls on the two
nations to cooperate in fostering democracy, protecting the
environment, promoting science and aiding the transition of
Communist nations to market economies. But wrangling over the
accompanying action plan, which U.S. officials had insisted
on crafting, dominated the news.
   In a weekend television interview, Foreign Minister Michio
Watanabe said the detailed trade disputes had distracted
attention from the summit's diplomatic achievements. "It may
have been better not to have brought" the corporate
executives, said Mr. Watanabe, according to newspaper
accounts.
   Some Japanese said the visit shows that their country must
reconsider some of its old, insular ways in order to measure
up to its new economic stature in the world. "Feudalistic
habits persist" in Japan, creating a business culture that is
less open than America's said Mr. Tanzawa, the hardware
executive. "We are just beginning to feel a sense of global
responsibility." Even Sony Corp. Chairman Akio Morita, a
frequent critic of U.S. policies, said in a television
interview that the time has come for Japan to reassess some
of its business practices.
   A front-page column in the Nihon Keizai Shimbun, Japan's
leading business newspaper, praised Mr. Bush's physical
resilience and Barbara Bush's poise and humor. But a separate
analysis piece on the same page referred to the U.S. as the
"superpower that threw away its pride."
   Referring to Mr. Bush's speech last Tuesday at a recently
opened Japanese outlet of the American chain Toys "R" Us, the
article concluded, "As they watched Mr. Bush, the president
who so splendidly guided the U.S. through the Gulf War as a
nation of justice, deliver a speech in front of a toy store,
the myth that most Japanese had held about America and
Americans completely vanished. If this represents the
quickening of the `New World Order' that Mr. Bush speaks of,
one can't help but worry about the future of U.S.-Japan
relations."