Technology  Health:
   Bristol-Myers Plans
   To Seek Approval
   To Market Taxol
   ----
   By Elyse Tanouye
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Taxol has been shown to be effective against ovarian
tumors and appears to be a promising treatment for advanced
breast cancer and some other tumor types.
   In testimony before a congressional hearing yesterday on
the Pacific Yew Act of 1991, the company said it delivered
1.35 kilograms of taxol to the National Cancer Institute last
year and plans to deliver 16 kilograms this year.
   Depending on when the drug receives Food and Drug
Administration approval, the company may need to produce at
least 40 to 50 kilograms in 1993 to meet research needs and
to treat the estimated 12,500 patients with refractory
ovarian cancer, said Dr. Zola Horovitz, vice president of
business development and planning. The company is confident
it can meet that need, he said.
   In January 1991, Bristol-Myers received exclusive access
to National Cancer Institute clinical and pre-clinical data
on taxol cancer research in return for an agreement to supply
the drug to the institute. The company is working with the
government to obtain the raw materials from federal lands. It
is also collecting bark from private lands.
   Bristol-Myers is also pursuing development of alternative
sources of taxol and expects that within three to five years
it won't need the Pacific yew as a supply source, Dr.
Horovitz said. Possibilities include extracting taxol from
twigs and needles of ornamental shrubs, converting a natural
material into taxol, using plant cell culture to produce
taxol from cells of yew tissues, and total synthesis of taxol
in the laboratory.
   Ronald Nordmann, an analyst at PaineWebber Inc., said
Bristol-Myers investors should be pleased by yesterday's
announcement of the company's plans to file an application
for FDA approval. "It shows the drug is on target, and our
question of whether supplies are adequate has been answered
affirmatively," he said.
   Mr. Nordmann projected taxol sales of up to $50 million in
1993, depending on when it receives approval, $200 million in
1994, and $350 million in 1995.