Law -- Legal Beat:
   Insurer Accuses AFL-CIO Local
   Of Abusing Group Health Plan
   ----
   By Wade Lambert and Amy Stevens
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
In its suit, State Mutual, Worcester, Mass., accused
Retail Local 906, New York, of misleading the insurer about
its membership. The suit alleged that the union signed up
thousands of people as "associated members" who weren't
employed in the retail industry represented by the union but
who qualified for the lower group-insurance rates solely by
paying the $12 monthly dues. The suit said the associated
members received no other benefits from the union.
   Richard Lutz, an attorney for State Mutual with the firm
Townley & Updike, said the associated members included "all
sorts of people who would seem to have no connection to a
retail local," such as lawyers, dentists, brokers and
unemployed people.
   But the union maintains it was doing nothing unusual in
allowing associated members to participate in the group
health plan. And it disputes State Mutual's claim that the
vast majority of the 7,000 to 8,000 people in the plan
weren't actually represented by the union in collective
bargaining agreements.
   Nemiah Soanes, the local's president, said the problem
with State Mutual arose when the union signed up about 3,000
associated members through Greater Northeast Business Group
Inc. in New York's Brooklyn borough. He said Greater
Northeast failed to provide State Mutual with information
that the insurer had requested.
   The suit also names Greater Northeast, its owner, Solomon
Sprei, and others associated with Mr. Sprei as defendants.
The suit accuses Mr. Sprei and the others of signing up the
associated members in return for millions of dollars in
finder's fees and other payments from the union. The suit
alleges that Mr. Sprei used forged documents about the
union's membership and previous insurance policies to
persuade State Mutual to provide coverage.
   Mr. Sprei couldn't be reached for comment.
   The union local also has been sued by Empire Blue
Cross/Blue Shield in a related case over membership
enrollment. State Mutual said it took over the group coverage
from Empire last May but that the union misrepresented
information about its membership.
   The State Mutual suit said the union's "open-ended"
membership arrangement resulted in a riskier insurance group.
Mr. Lutz said the arrangement attracted many individuals with
pre-existing medical conditions who otherwise would have been
ineligible for individual coverage or would have had to pay
much higher premiums.
   "A genuine group of union employees covered by a
collective bargaining agreement in an industry provides a
form of protection to the insurer, since a measure of
homogeneity of risk is provided by the specific employment
relationship," the suit said. "A group of wholly unrelated
persons doesn't qualify for group insurance coverage under
State Mutual's underwriting guidelines."
   The suit asks that State Mutual be allowed to back out of
the insurance contract and to not pay more than 18,000
allegedly invalid claims that are estimated to total more
than $10 million. Mr. Lutz said the union apparently has
already obtained other health insurance.
   ---
   INSURANCE CLAIM allowed for suicide based on "irresistible
impulse."
   A federal judge in Spokane, Wash., ruled that a man's
self-inflicted death wasn't suicide in the legal sense,
because the man was moved by an emotional urge that he
couldn't resist.
   In 1989, Horace Richardson, a wealthy Spokane automobile
dealer, put a gun to his head and pulled the trigger. The act
that ended his life came after a long and difficult
convalescence from an automobile accident two months earlier.
   New England Mutual Life Insurance Co. refused to pay a
$2.5 million death claim on Mr. Richardson's policy, citing a
provision that denies coverage in the event of suicide. Such
terms are commonly applicable during the first year or two
after a life insurance policy's issue date.
   Judge William Fremming Nielsen's decision in the case,
which was brought by the trustee for the Richardson estate,
relied upon a handful of rulings in cases involving people
who harmed themselves soon after suffering brain injuries
inflicted by others.
   The lawyer for the estate, Eugene Annis of Spokane, argued
that Mr. Richardson was "never the same person" after the car
crash, which left him with amnesia and some confusion.
   A spokeswoman for New England Mutual said the company
hadn't seen the decision yet, didn't know all the facts and
couldn't comment yet.
   (Rice vs. New England Mutual Life, U.S. district court,
Spokane, No. CS90150 WFN)
   ---
   RIGHT TO DIE upheld for retarded woman in vegetative
state.
   Massachusetts' highest court, in a 4-3 decision, backed a
probate court ruling that feeding tubes should be removed
from the 33-year-old woman. The woman's preferences are
unknown because she has been mentally retarded since infancy.
   The woman, identified only as Jane Doe, suffers from a
degenerative illness of the brain. According to caretakers,
she displays no awareness of her surroundings and apparently
doesn't feel pain. Her parents, a guardian and state
physicians want treatment stopped.
   A lawyer for the woman, Jonathan Brant, said he didn't
know if he was going to appeal the ruling. Before the court,
he had argued that the state needed "clear and convincing
evidence of the patient's own wishes" before it could
disconnect her, based on the U.S. Supreme Court's decision in
the Nancy Cruzan case. There, the top court upheld Missouri's
"clear-and-convincing" test.
   But the Massachusetts court ruled that the test only
applies to Missouri, not to Massachusetts. The woman should
be allowed to "go in peace," the court wrote.
   In a strongly worded dissent, Justice Francis P. O'Connor,
joined by Justice Neil L. Lynch, called the majority's
decision "legal embrace of suicide -- and beyond." Justice
Joseph R. Nolan dissented separately, saying the court was
playing God.
   (Guardianship of Jane Doe, Massachusetts Supreme Judicial
Court, N5637)
   ---
   LAWYER GETS STIFF PRISON TERM in theft of client funds.
   Steven Romer, who was convicted last month in state court
in Manhattan, was sentenced to at least 7 1/2 years in prison
before becoming eligible for parole. Under the sentence, Mr.
Romer, 55 years old, faces a maximum sentence of 22 1/2
years.
   State court Justice John A.K. Bradley also ordered Mr.
Romer to pay restitution of $7 million to the four clients
whom Mr. Romer was convicted of cheating. The four victims
included an orphan who lost her entire $740,000 inheritance
and a businessman who lost two multimillion-dollar trusts he
set up for his children. Mr. Romer was accused of spending
the money on himself, his family and his business ventures.
   Mr. Romer, who defended himself at trial, maintains he is
innocent.
   Mr. Romer -- and his clients' money -- disappeared in
December 1990. Mr. Romer sent his clients a letter claiming
that he was dying of a brain tumor and that they would be
reimbursed by his life insurance policy. In February, Mr.
Romer turned himself in to the district attorney and claimed
he had been kidnapped. He has been in custody since then.
   ---
   NOTED: Panama, as expected, challenged a proposed plea
agreement in the federal criminal case against the Bank of
Credit & Commerce International, saying it first wants
restitution from the failed bank. Attorneys for Panama asked
a federal judge in Washington to order BCCI to pay $32.5
million that the Central American country said it lost
through BCCI laundering of public funds stolen by deposed
dictator Manuel Noriega. U.S. District Judge Joyce Hens Green
is scheduled to consider Thursday whether to approve the
agreement, in which BCCI would plead guilty to racketeering
charges and forfeit about $550 million in U.S. assets.
Meanwhile, other BCCI creditors are expected to object to the
plea agreement today before U.S. Bankruptcy Judge James L.
Garrity Jr. in Manhattan. If the agreement stands, creditors
will have to apply either to the U.S. attorney general or to
foreign courts for payment.