Pricing Health Care:
   Give Employees Medical IRAs and Watch Costs Fall
   ----
   By J. Patrick Rooney
Here's how it would work: Employers would give each
employee an annual allowance of, say, $3,000 or so for
routine health care for him and his family -- checkups, sore
throats, sprained ankles, etc. That allowance would go into a
fund -- call it a medical IRA. If the employee spent less his
allowance in a given year, he could keep it. (More on that
later.) To protect the employee against the cost of medical
bills above his annual allowance, the employer would continue
to buy insurance.
   Let's look at how this would work in an
average-cost-of-living city, such as Peoria, Ill.; Scranton,
Pa.; Cincinnati; or Denver.
   Currently, an employer in such cities pays an average
$4,500 insurance premium to cover an employee and his family;
the deductible typically is $100 to $250. The premium for a
policy with a $3,000 deductible, by contrast, would be about
$1,500. The employer could then deposit the approximately
$3,000 difference in premiums into his employee's medical
care savings account. The employee would use the money in the
account to pay for the first $3,000 in annual health care
costs for any family member, with the rest covered by
insurance. Putting real money in the employee's medical-care
savings account effectively deals with his natural fear of
big deductibles, because he will have employer-provided money
sitting right there in the account to cover the deductible.
   The following year, the employee would get an additional
$3,000 or so to put into the medical care savings account,
and $3,000 or so the year after that -- $9,000 in three
years; $15,000 in five years.
   The medical care savings account would be especially
helpful to the financially stressed employee. Today, even
relatively small deductibles can create a hardship for, say,
a divorced woman who is trying to raise two or three
children. Insurance doesn't pay until she has paid the
deductible first out of after-tax income. With the medical
care savings account, she'll have money right there with
which to pay for the first dollar of care. The objective is
to have her spend wisely throughout the year, not to cause
her hardships when she has to take her children to the doctor
in the early part of the year.
   For the single employee whose annual account deposit is
half as much, or for the new employee who in the first few
months on the job would not have enough savings in the
account to cover the deductible, a variety of don't-be-afraid
safeguards could be included. It would be a small matter to
offer employees interest-free loans until the savings had
accumulated.
   One of the arguments for national health insurance is,
"What will I do if I lose my job and then don't have
insurance?" If medical care savings accounts were in general
use, there would be tax-free money in the accounts to pay
insurance premiums between jobs. Half of the uninsured remain
uninsured four months or less and only 15% are uninsured for
as long as two years. If I lose my job, or if I am out on
strike, there would be money in the medical care savings
account to continue my insurance.
   Employers could implement such a program today without
waiting for the government to make it possible. But they're
not doing so -- because current law makes the money tax
deductible only if spent by the employer. (Some employers now
offer plans that are something like this, but funds not spent
by year's end revert to the employer. The result is that the
incentive is for the employee to make sure that the money is
spent before the end of the year, adding pressure for
ever-higher health spending.)
   It will take only a fairly simple modification to the tax
law to let any money the employee has not consumed on medical
care accumulate tax-free in a medical IRA. No new federal
bureaucracy would be needed. Since employers are already
spending this money tax-free on insurance premiums, the money
retained in employee medical IRAs would be tax-neutral.
   Such a change in the tax law would be a godsend for small
employers and their workers. Small employer groups -- even
associations of small employers -- often must pay prohibitive
premiums because of high claim costs. Examples of family
premiums in this category are $7,920 in Des Moines, Iowa;
$9,643 in Chicago; and $8,238 in Washington.
   As premiums have escalated, the healthier groups have
gradually dropped out of the insurance pool. The ones who
have stayed are the high users. Moderate utilizers have
either decided to go bare or, in the case of one firm I know
of, the owner-partners have left the group and bought
individual high-deductible policies on their own. For these
firms, group insurance is no longer a rational purchase.
   To bring health care costs under control, insurance has to
become a good-sense product again. The combination of the
medical care savings account and high-deductible insurance
would bring these costs back into line, and would even bring
many employers back into the insurance system.
   As with any IRA, an employee would be allowed to make an
early withdrawal for a nonmedical purpose (a house
downpayment, for instance). The employee would have to pay a
10% withdrawal penalty, and the money would become taxable
income. Those taxes are revenue-positive. And, from the
employee's standpoint, the money wouldn't have been there at
all without the medical IRA. At age 59 1/2, the employee
could begin to draw income from the medical IRA, at which
time the resulting income would become taxable and could be
used for any purpose.
   Wouldn't that be great?
   ---
   Mr. Rooney is chairman of Golden Rule Insurance Co. He
credits the National Center for Policy Analysis, in Dallas,
with originating the idea for medical care savings accounts.