REAL ESTATE
   ----
   By Mitchell Pacelle
OWNERS of new office buildings have one thing to be
grateful for: They didn't invest all their money in land.
   Land values in the nation's overbuilt cities have plunged
even more precipitously than building values, commercial
real-estate specialists say.
   "As rents on office buildings have decreased over the last
12 to 24 months, one can almost construct an argument that
land is worth nothing in Manhattan," says Frank Liantonio,
director of national real-estate appraisal services for
Cushman  Wakefield in New York.
   Rental rates dictate land values. A top-tier Manhattan
office building that cost $225 a square foot to build, for
example, would probably have to rent for at least $35 a
square foot just to cover the construction debt, Mr.
Liantonio says. In today's market, that would be a stretch,
he says. And when buildings are worth less than their
replacement costs, vacant land isn't worth much.
   A Manhattan land price index compiled by Austrian Roth 
Partners, a New York consulting firm, confirms that. The
indexbased on a study of all land sales for commercial
development in midtown Manhattan over the past 27 years --
finds that land prices peaked at $126 per square foot of
buildable floor area in 1990, then plunged to $48.57 in 1991.
When adjusted for inflation, the study says, the price of
land in midtown returned last year to its 1965 level.
   Real-estate specialists in other big cities describe a
similar pattern, which has made land a highly illiquid asset.
   "There has been a free fall in land prices," says Paul
Garity, a real-estate partner for KPMG Peat Marwick in Los
Angeles, where land prices have fallen 50% since early 1990,
he says.
   Paul Reilly, a director of real-estate consulting at the
firm, adds, "Now everyone who buys land knows they're in it
for the long run."
                                                                                                       

   Realtors Start to See
   Some Value in Auctions
                                                                                                       

   AFTER another record year in 1991, real-estate auctions
are beginning to get some respect from Realtors.
   About $33 billion of residential and commercial real
estate was sold at auction in 1991, up from $31 billion in
1990 and $10 billion in 1980, says the Gwent Group, a
Bloomington, Ind., real-estate auction consulting firm.
   Real-estate brokers, meanwhile, are setting up in-house
auction consulting units, contracting with auctioneers to
market properties handled by the brokers, or marketing the
properties on behalf of auctioneers. The National Association
of Realtors, which had previously turned a cold shoulder to
auctioneers, now has auction committees and holds auction
training programs.
   Realtors "are realizing it's just an alternative marketing
method," says Stephen Martin, Gwent's president.
   But attitudes aren't changing overnight. Jan Tarnow,
manager of the auction department in the Realtors' group,
says, "We're working very hard to dispel the negative
connotations" auctions still have for many brokers. "I still
find some resistance. Someone else is out there trying to
take away their listings. It's a method they're not used to."
                                                                                                       

   Troubled Co-op Wins
   Reprieve From Lender
                                                                                                       

   ONE OF THE nation's largest buyers of mortgages has
decided not to lower the boom on an apartment cooperative
that defaulted on its mortgage, providing a ray of hope to
owners in other financially troubled co-ops.
   Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp., or Freddie Mac, holds
the $1.6 million underlying mortgage on a 111-unit
cooperative in Manhattan. Two of the building's developers
had stopped making maintenance payments on the 50 unsold
units they held, causing the co-op to default on its
underlying mortgage and Freddie Mac to begin foreclosure
proceedings.
   Allen Turek, the cooperative's lawyer, complained that it
was facing a Catch-22: It could get out of the hole if it
could sell the seized units, but buyers weren't able to get
mortgages from local lenders because the building was in
financial trouble.
   For the first time, Freddie Mac agreed to finance "end
loans" to the buyers. The agency will direct local lenders to
make the loans, which it will buy.
   "We're putting more money into a bad loan," says Clayton
Davis, a Freddie Mac associate general counsel. "But we're
getting another borrower who we believe is more
credit-worthy, and we're strengthening the co-op." Some
proceeds of the new loans will go to pay down the building's
mortgage.
   "It's a pilot project," says Mr. Davis. "We have a number
of underlying loans on co-ops that are delinquent. If it
works well, we'll use it on selected other projects."
   Stuart Saft, a New York real-estate lawyer who has
negotiated similar accords with primary lenders, says such an
agreement can cut a lender's losses. If the lender
forecloses, he says, the building drops in value because it
in effect reverts to a rental property subject to city
regulation.
   Freddie Mac's decision is important, Mr. Saft says,
because many primary lenders don't have the resources to prop
up such projects, while Freddie Mac clearly does.
                                                                                                       

   Odds and Ends
                                                                                                       

   IN THE 251 markets surveyed by Coldwell Banker Residential
Group, a 2,200-square-foot single-family house is cheapest in
Oklahoma City (an average of $75,750), and most expensive in
Beverly Hills, Calif. ($1.2 million). . . . The 50 largest
apartment owners in the nation hold 1.7 million units, about
12% of the nation's rental housing, says the National Multi
Housing Council.