Law -- Legal Beat:
   Justice Thomas's Major Opinion
   Allies Him With Conservative Bloc
   ----
   By Paul M. Barrett and Arthur S. Hayes
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
It is too early for conclusive pronouncements about
Justice Thomas's philosophy or method. But his work offers
hints about his inclinations. He has maintained a tendency
toward limiting judicial authority, which surfaced in his
brief career on the federal appeals court in Washington, D.C.
And he also has shown an affinity for the views of the high
court's most intellectually free-wheeling member, Justice
Antonin Scalia.
   One question about Justice Thomas raised by critics long
before Anita Hill's sexual-harassment allegations was his
competence: Did the judicial neophyte have the skills to get
the job done? Judging from his four written opinions to date,
the answer is yes. His writing is workmanlike and generally
to the point; he has a refreshing aversion to footnotes.
   "I see a justice who has a good deal of self-confidence,"
says Timothy Dyk, a Washington-based Supreme Court litigator.
   In the labor-law case, Justice Thomas declared his
allegiance to the conservative majority's preference for
simple, "bright-line" rules, as opposed to the more nuanced
multifactor "balancing tests" generally associated with
Justices John Stevens and Harry Blackmun. As a rule, Justice
Thomas wrote, employers may keep union organizers who aren't
employees off of company property. He rejected more flexible
positions urged by the National Labor Relations Board and the
Bush administration.
   Business advocates couldn't be happier. "He took a very
literal approach" to the issue of property rights, notes Mona
Zeiberg, a lawyer with the U.S. Chamber of Commerce. "We were
pleasantly surprised."
   Though leery of drawing premature conclusions, Elliot
Mincberg, legal director of the liberal group People for the
American Way, said he was disappointed but not surprised to
see Justice Thomas staking out a position on the right.
   While adjusting to his new job, Justice Thomas has
impressed lawyers by finding the time to write a concurring
opinion and a dissent in other cases. Both of these efforts
share Justice Scalia's independence of spirit and terseness
in expression. In his concurrence in a criminal case from
Illinois, Justice Thomas adopted the Scalia approach of
justifying a narrow reading of defendants' rights by
exploring how those rights are rooted in U.S. history.
   There is one striking difference, however, between
Justices Scalia and Thomas: The latter has said only a few
words in oral arguments while Justice Scalia takes pleasure
in jousting with almost every lawyer who steps up to the
lectern.
   ---
   LAW FIRM sues two partners for conspiring to defect.
   The lawsuit, filed early this week by Hill, Betts  Nash
of New York, accused two members of its management committee
of breach of fiduciary duty, interfering with the law firm's
relations with its employees and financial fraud. Hill Betts
is a 94-year-old law firm specializing in maritime
litigation, including cases arising from the Titantic, Amoco
Cadiz and Exxon Valdez shipping disasters.
   According to the complaint, filed in state court in
Manhattan, partners Marlene D. Daniels and Gary J. Wolfe
violated a partnership agreement requiring 90-day notice
before withdrawing as partners by not telling the firm of
their plans to defect. The complaint alleges that Ms. Daniels
and Mr. Wolfe released proprietary information to other law
firms, improperly used the law firm's money for personal use,
avoided paying their share of the firm's rent, and recruited
other lawyers and employees, all in a secret scheme to
defect. Ms. Daniels and Mr. Wolfe resigned Monday, after the
suit was filed.
   The complaint comes at a time when many law firms are
suing to enforce partnership agreements as a defense against
partners who abandon ship and take clients with them.
Typically, these agreements deter defections by delaying
retirement benefits, stringing out capital payments over
several years, and allowing a firm to dissolve and make the
defecting partner share in all firm debts.
   Last month, the California Supreme Court let stand a lower
court ruling that such partnership agreements are generally
valid if they still allow a partner to practice elsewhere.
Three years ago, New York's highest court ruled that
noncompetition provisions in law-firm partnership agreements
weren't valid and violated legal ethics in a case involving
Lord Day  Lord, Barrett Smith.
   Harvey Stone and Richard Dolan, partners at Schlam Stone 
Dolan, which represents Hill Betts, said the New York high
court's ruling applies only in cases where a partner
withdraws. Ms. Daniels and Mr. Wolfe were still partners of
the firm when all the alleged actions took place, so the New
York law doesn't apply, the lawyers said.
   Sutton Keany, a partner with Winthrop, Stimson, Putnam 
Roberts, which represents Ms. Daniels and Mr. Wolfe, however,
said the suit does fall under the Lord Day ruling.
   "The lawsuit is totally without merit," Mr. Keany said. "I
wouldn't be surprised if the suit is withdrawn in due
course."
   ---
   PROPERTY'S POTENTIAL VALUE can't decide tax assessment,
court says.
   A New York state court in Manhattan found that New York
city erred in taxing seven residential and office properties
on the basis of their development potential. One lot in the
cluster of Upper East Side properties, owned by the estate of
deceased businessman Sol Goldman, was taxed as highly as an
adjacent lot that was twice as big.
   The court criticized the city for assessing "based on a
still nonexistent theoretical use of the property." Although
the property's use has been the same for seven years, the
court noted, its tax assessment has almost tripled.
   The decision could affect many owners who bought New York
City property in the 1980s with the intention of developing
it, said Israel Schecter, a property-tax lawyer who
represented Mr. Goldman's estate. "The economics of the
market haven't borne out those rosy outlooks," he said. "The
court said you have to tax based on the current use."
   The court ruled that the city overtaxed Mr. Goldman, who
died in 1987, by at least $3 million.
   An attorney for New York, Mortimer Traktman, said the city
hadn't decided whether to appeal.
   (Estate of Sol Goldman vs. Commissioner of Finance, New
York Supreme Court, IA Part 24)
   ---
   U.S.-TAIWAN trade treaty still valid, despite end to
diplomatic ties, court rules.
   U.S. diplomatic recognition isn't necessary for an
international commerical treaty to be valid, the federal
appeals court in Manhattan said, as long as the treaty is
with a nation that has a defined territory, permanent
population and government.
   The Second U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals said a 1946
commercial treaty between Taiwan and the U.S. can remain in
force, even though in 1979 the U.S. ended diplomatic
relations with Taiwan in favor of the mainland People's
Republic of China.
   The challenge to the treaty arose out of a more than
three-year-old copyright-infringement case dealing with New
York's Mandarin-Chinese speaking television market. New York
Chinese TV Programs Inc. sued U.E. Enterprises Inc. for
selling video tapes of Taiwanese television soap operas
without permission. New York Chinese TV Programs has an
exclusive license to sell the tapes in the New York-New
Jersey area, and it argued that the 1946 treaty recognizes
the Taiwanese copyrights.
   U.E. Enterprises countered that the treaty lost the force
of law once the U.S. ended diplomatic relations with Taiwan.
A lower court disagreed, assessing more than $1 million in
damages and attorney's fees. The appeals court last week
upheld the lower court ruling.
   The case drew the attention of large U.S. corporations and
trade associations, such as Microsoft Inc., Lotus Development
Corp. and the Motion Picture Association of America, which
argued that the treaty should remain in force. "The decision
recognizes the commercial importance of Taiwan," said Frank
Wang, of the San Francisco law firm Wang  Wang, who prepared
a friend-of-the-court brief for the major companies.
   Stephen Gleit, who represented U.E. Enterprises, said his
client is considering whether to appeal the matter further.
   ---
   AD AGE LOSES libel case, after judge reverses jury
verdict.
   The judge, in federal court in Chicago, ruled that an
Advertising Age article libeled Richard E. Meyer, ex-chief
executive officer of Jovan Inc., formerly a perfume unit of
Britain's Beecham PLC.
   The case involved a 1988 article that, among other things,
portrayed Mr. Meyer as a frequent user of cocaine, who had
been fired by Beecham. Mr. Meyer, who is no longer with the
company, filed a $10 million libel suit.
   On three of five statements Mr. Meyer challenged, the jury
found in favor of Ad Age, published by Crain Communications
Inc., but found Ad Age knew or should have known the
remaining two statements -- that Mr. Meyer had been fired and
had used cocaine on the job -- were false. The jury, however,
said Mr. Meyer's reputation hadn't been damaged by the false
statements.
   Judge James B. Zagel said that under the law of
California, where Mr. Meyer resides, the jury shouldn't have
been allowed to decide whether the false statements were
defamatory. A jury will be asked to set damages next month.
   David P. Sanders, one of the defense attorneys, said Judge
Zagel's decision "disregards the clear intention of the
jury."