Politics  Policy:
   Kerrey Now Strives to Turn His Service
   In Vietnam Into a Message for Voters
   ----
   By David Rogers
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
With a new bluntness, he chastises rival Democrat Bill
Clinton, the Arkansas governor, for being a creature of
"privilege" in avoiding military service and the draft during
the war. He frames the debate not as a question of patriotism
but of the inequities that often permitted wealthier and
better-educated persons to escape that conflict.
   "They came from working-class families, blue-collar
families," says Mr. Kerrey speaking of those who bore the
brunt of the fighting. "They were mostly from families that
either just grew up saying it is our duty . . . or weren't in
an environment where they were arguing it."
   Of Mr. Clinton, a Rhodes scholar at Oxford in 1968 and
1969, he says in an interview: "You had privilege and you
were able to get out and you got out. That's what you did.
Just step forward and say that."
   Mr. Clinton's now famous letter of December 1969, thanking
an Arkansas colonel for "saving" him from the draft, came
within days of Mr. Kerrey's own release from the Philadelphia
Naval Hospital that year. Sen. Kerrey's first reaction to the
letter was to recoil and say nothing. "It brings back the
memories of feeling terrible," he says. Yet as Mr. Clinton
defended himself, faulting the press and the Pentagon and
saying he had finally put himself "at risk" in the draft, the
senator's frustration grew.
   "The thing that in the end caused me to boil over was that
he became a victim," says Mr. Kerrey. "I talked to people who
said to me: `You've got to say something for us.' They were
feeling hurt by the arguments that he was making that `I'm
the one who really went through hell.'"
   Mr. Kerrey makes no apologies for his attack on Gov.
Clinton. "If he thinks I have been rough on him," he says,
"wait until he stands up to a combat pilot from World War
II," referring to President Bush.
   And he shakes off criticism that by speaking up, he has
aggravated old divisions. "It's an experience, you can't bury
it," he says of Vietnam. "It has had an impact on this
campaign. . . . In the end, I say the wounds are open
anyway."
   Introducing Sen. Kerrey here in Pueblo, Ben Nighthorse
Campbell, a Democratic congressman, paraphrases Shakespeare:
"He who laughs at scars has suffered no wounds." Mr. Kerrey's
own scars and his Medal of Honor are part of his appeal. But
the public bitterness associated with Vietnam has made it
harder for him to find the right metaphor to bring his war
experience into the campaign. "You have to say it just right
or people react negatively," he says. "You say Vietnam and
they turn down the dial."
   His own anger from the war helps sustain a defiant streak
in his politics. But he talks most of his long
hospitalization and recovery, using it as a symbol of the
healing and rebuilding that he says he can bring to this
country.
   The Clinton controversy, by contrast, stirs old ghosts --
and pain. Most of the attention has focused on 1969, a time
when thousands of draftees were sent into combat as the Nixon
administration was moving to begin the long U.S. withdrawal.
At the time, even the military itself was granting special
treatment to its elites. Officers often served less time "on
line" than enlisted men, and when soldiers were shaken by the
fighting, recruitment sergeants in the rear offered
non-combat posts in return for a longer enlistment time.
   As the leader of an elite special forces unit, Mr. Kerrey
was largely above this turmoil. Even after his painful
recovery, he was proud of his independence and reluctant to
embrace veterans' causes. But his attitudes began to change
when he stepped down as Nebraska's governor in the late 1980s
and spent months at the University of California
participating in a course with other veterans on the impact
of the war on America. As the presidential campaign has
progressed, he has been prodded to speak more often as a
voice for veterans.
   From a Las Vegas union hall to this blue-collar city, he
searches for the words to meld his war record with a frontier
sense of community and family. "No man or woman is ever
really truly free until they are prepared to risk it all for
someone else," says the senator. "I'm not talking just about
war. I'm talking about people prepared to give themselves to
their families . . . their children . . . their neighbors and
to the stranger who may need it most of all."