Nonprofit Group
   Honors Businesses
   That Aid Society
   ----
   By Gilbert Fuchsberg
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Ms. Denhart was cited for "Hannadowns," a program she
began in 1986 to cut waste and highlight the durability of
the children's clothes sold through Hanna Andersson, the
mail-order business she heads. The program invites customers
to return their used clothes for a 20% credit on future
purchases. The Portland, Ore., company then distributes the
clothes to needy children -- some 30,000 in the last two
years alone, earning 5,000 customers about $150,000 in
credit. "It just felt right, and so we did it," Ms. Denhart
said. "Sometimes you have to go with your feelings."
   Mr. Surpin founded Cooperative Home Care Associates, New
York. It provides home health care on a for-profit basis
through some 250 employees, many of them former welfare
recipients.
   Mr. Bowsher was recognized with four other managers from
Chicago's Inland Steel Industries Inc. -- Tyrone C. Banks,
Vivian N. Cosey, Robert R. Hudson Jr. and Scharlene R.
Hurston -- for initiating several affirmative action efforts
at the steelmaker.
   Prudential Insurance, Newark, N.J., received the award for
creating the Living Needs Benefit, an option allowing certain
seriously ill policyholders to redeem most of their life
insurance benefits while still alive. Some one million of the
company's three million North American policyholders have
signed up for the free option; to date under the program,
Prudential has paid some $21 million on about 275 claims.
   The trust gave a lifetime achievement award to J. Irwin
Miller, former chairman of Cummins Engine Co., Columbus, Ind.
Calling him a pioneer of "models of business responsibility,"
the trust cited numerous contributions to religious groups,
the arts, and public affairs.
   Founded in 1989 by television producer Norman Lear, best
known for "All in the Family," the Business Enterprise Trust
distributes videotapes and case studies about its award
recipients to about 100 business schools nationwide for use
in ethics teaching.