Business Briefs
Warner Computer Systems Inc., an insurance policy and
claims administration provider, said shareholders approved a
change in the company's name to Warner Insurance Services
Inc.
   ---
   Lincoln N.C. Realty Fund Inc. said it signed a letter of
intent with MacFarlane Realty Advisors Inc., Philadelphia, to
sell Lincoln's Wrigley Creek project in Milpitas, Calif., to
an unidentified third party. Terms weren't disclosed.
   ---
   Battle Mountain Gold Co. will develop a gold mine at the
Crown Jewel gold discovery site in northeastern Washington
state. The project is expected to produce 175,000 ounces of
gold during the eight-year life of the mine, and cost about
$30 million to $40 million to develop.
   ---
   Cosmetic Center Inc. shareholders approved reclassifying
its common stock into Class A non-voting common and Class B
voting common. Trading in the two new classes began Monday on
the Nasdaq National Market System.
   ---
   Society Corp. said the Office of the Comptroller of the
Currency has lifted regulatory agreements from three former
affiliates of its Ameritrust Corp. unit.
   ---
   Carl Karcher Enterprises Inc. opened a Carl's Jr.
restaurant in Beijing, under a licensing agreement with Hop
Hing Holdings Ltd., Hong Kong.
   ---
   Mylan Laboratories Inc. received Food and Drug
Administration approval for Diltiazem tablets in four
strengths, consisting of 30, 60, 90 and 120 milligrams.
Product shipping won't begin until exclusivity on Marion
Merrell Dow's equivalent product expires on Nov. 5.
   ---
   Clayton  Dubilier Inc., a leveraged buy-out firm, said it
is changing its name to Clayton, Dubilier  Rice Inc.
   ---
   Corrections  Amplifications
                                                                                                       

   BATTLE MOUNTAIN GOLD Co.'s Crown Jewel gold mine is
expected to produce an average of 175,000 ounces of gold a
year during the eight-year life of the mine. An item in
yesterday's editions misstated the production.
   (WSJ March 20, 1992)