Health:
   Clevelanders Bet
   Top Health Care
   Will Be Cheaper
   ---
   By Walt Bogdanich
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Their strategy evolved from a 1990 study that showed they
could load their sick employees on planes and fly them 750
miles to Minnesota's Mayo Clinic for treatment and still pay
less than if the patients went to nearby Cleveland hospitals.
   This discovery provided a wake-up call for Cleveland's
corporations as well as a lesson that some health experts say
has been lost in the intensifying national debate on health
care -- namely, that good quality care needn't cost more than
bad care, and often costs less.
   Energized by the study, Cleveland companies are using
their economic leverage to persuade doctors and hospitals to
help in attacking substandard medical care. "Quality is the
way to cost containment, because quality costs less in the
long run," says Dale Shaller, a Minneapolis-based health
policy consultant who has helped guide the Cleveland project.
   To be sure, the reasons for rising health care costs go
beyond inattention to quality, and touch on everything from
an aging population to expensive new drugs and diagnostic
equipment.
   But the human cost of bad quality care is staggering. In a
1991 study, Harvard Medical School researchers calculated
that 7,000 people died in New York hospitals from medical
negligence in a single year. That suggests that as many as
80,000 people nationwide may be dying annually from
negligence. And bad care also costs a lot of money.
Misdiagnosis, substandard surgery, improper drug therapies
and hospital-acquired infections result in more and longer
hospitalizations.
   Forbes Regional Health Center near Pittsburgh discovered
in a roundabout way how improved quality produces dividends
beyond healed bodies. In 1989, Richard N. McGarvey, Forbes's
medical director, took a disturbing call from a statistician
who had been analyzing patient outcome data. The data, Dr.
McGarvey was told, indicated that Forbes was less successful
than certain nearby hospitals in treating standard pneumonia.
   Concerned, Dr. McGarvey began pulling patient charts to
learn if the problem could be traced to any specific doctors.
His initial conclusion: No specific individual was
responsible. Moreover, most of the deaths could be explained,
either because patients were already critically ill from
other diseases or because they had requested not to be
resuscitated.
   "At this point, Dr. McGarvey could have walked away," says
Dr. John Harper, associate medical director at Forbes. "But
instead of being defensive, and saying, `I can explain my
results to anybody,' he said, `Let's look at how we can
improve.'"
   As the internal investigation progressed, one doctor's
patients appeared to be faring better than others. The doctor
turned out to be a young staff member who hadn't yet been
fully indoctrinated in the ways of Forbes. Unlike his
colleagues, he took part in certain diagnostic workups. As a
result, his tests were more timely and accurate, permitting
quicker, more appropriate treatment.
   Dr. McGarvey turned up other clues, which he used to guide
him in changing how Forbes treated its pneumonia patients.
Soon, Forbes's patients were faring better. And, as an
unexpected benefit, patients remained hospitalized fewer
days, while Forbes consumed 15% fewer resources -- personnel,
medication, tests and so on -- in treating them.
   To encourage more institutions to behave like Forbes, high
quality care needs to be rewarded. But rewards are slow in
coming because government, corporations and insurers -- the
biggest purchasers of medical care -- often fail to recognize
that quality differs greatly from hospital to hospital and
even from department to department in a single institution.
   "In most large metropolitan areas, you are 50% more likely
to die in the worst hospital than the best," says Walt
McClure, chairman of the Center for Policy Studies, a
Minneapolis think tank. He contends that because society
rewards bad medical care right along with good care, bad
providers have little incentive to improve.
   Medicare, for example, "doesn't care how poor the quality
is -- it just says, `here's a fixed price that fits all, take
it or leave it,'" says Dr. Alan Brewster, a Westborough,
Mass., pioneer in using patient outcome data to measure how
successfully hospitals treat certain ailments.
   Because of the work of Dr. Brewster and others like him,
Cleveland corporations were able to convince Cleveland
hospitals and doctors that it was possible to identify, with
a reasonable degree of certainty, the high-quality providers.
The trick then became how to convince those with specific
problems to improve.
   While patients acting as individuals can rarely reform a
hospital, patients acting in concert can. And that is the
heart of the Cleveland plan. With some 350,000 individuals
covered through various employee benefit plans, Cleveland
corporations plan to direct their workers to the highest
quality, low-cost providers by making anyone who chooses to
go elsewhere pay extra.
   Employees aren't scheduled to receive procedure-specific
data until midsummer, but Cleveland-area hospitals, fearful
of looking bad, are already scrambling to improve. C. Wayne
Rice, president of the Greater Cleveland Hospital
Association, says, "I had one hospital administrator tell me,
`This project is doing more to upgrade the quality in my
institution than anything I have seen in 30 years.'"
   And like Forbes, not all hospitals need to be threatened
with a loss of business. The quality management gurus who
have been trying to sell America's corporations on such
concepts as continuous quality improvement are beginning to
find a receptive ear among hospital executives.
   Dr. Howard Hiatt, who has studied medical negligence in
America's hospitals, suggests that administrators begin
looking at the thousands of medication errors that are
harming patients. The savings could be considerable, he says.
   Several important roadblocks to improvement remain. Many
doctors and hospitals are reluctant to admit that their
counterparts across town may be doing a better job. What's
more, many patients still find it comforting to believe that
their doctor or hospital is the best.
   The solution, say some health-care activists, is to
educate consumers about the differences and increase the
research in patient outcome measurements. For too long, says
John B. Hexter, president of Cleveland's Health Action
Council, information about quality "has been kept out of the
hands of the purchaser, be it the corporation or the
consumer."