Heard on the Street:
   Top Investment Newsletters Pinpoint Firms
   With High Profit Growth, Rising Stock Prices
   ----
   By John R. Dorfman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Tops for the past five years was BI Research, written by
Tom Bishop, who recommends only a handful of stocks at a
time. His forte is small growth stocks, an area that was hot
in 1991. At the moment, he is keen on Showbiz Pizza Time,
which he discovered not through a brokerage report but
through a friend's children.
   The restaurants feature arcade games, video games, and
tanks full of plastic balls that kids can dive into. There's
entertainment every half hour. "I think they really have a
formula for success," says Mr. Bishop. "They expect to be
able to finance their growth with internally generated funds
and still pay down some debt."
   Mr. Bishop also likes two tiny gold stocks traded on the
Vancouver Stock Exchange, Taseko Mines and El Condor
Resources. Both have applied to be listed on the Nasdaq
over-the-counter trading network in the U.S., and are run by
the same management team. Their method is to "prove out" a
promising ore body, then sell the property to a larger mining
company that does the actual production.
   Second-ranked for the past five years is MPT Review, by
Louis Navellier. (MPT stands for Modern Portfolio Theory.)
Mr. Navellier looks for companies with expanding profit
margins and earnings that exceed expectations. "I'm real
picky right now," he says. "The market short-term is grossly
overbought, and must correct."
   "I dearly love Wausau Paper Mills," Mr. Navellier says.
Wausau, which specializes in high quality coated papers, has
expanding profit margins and analysts are increasing their
earnings estimates on it. His other favorites include Duty
Free International, Goodyear Tire  Rubber, 50 Off Stores,
Gap, and the American depositary receipts of ECI Telecom, an
Israeli company that makes advanced telephone switching
equipment. Ordinarily, Mr. Navellier isn't a big fan of
cyclical stocks such as Goodyear. But currently he is: "The
cyclicals aren't as overcooked yet as other stocks," he says.
   At third-ranked Medical Technology Stock Letter, writer
Jim McCamant says that riding the biotech wave has been
wonderful. But he has explained to subscribers that "it isn't
this easy. . . . It ain't going to stay this way forever."
Mr. McCamant thinks biotech stocks will run into a fairly
stiff correction in the first half of 1992.
   For the moment, he says, he can bring himself to recommend
only one biotech issue, Xoma, which works with monoclonal
antibodies. Xoma has no products on the market yet, but Mr.
McCamant predicts Food and Drug Administration approval by
June for its two main drugs under development. One, E-5,
treats septic shock; the other is designed to combat
complications associated with bone-marrow transplants.
   Mr. McCamant thinks the two drugs together can bring in
roughly $230 million in annual revenue, but most of that
would go to Pfizer and Johnson  Johnson, which would market
them. At Friday's closing price of 23.25, the stock market
values Xoma at about $498 million. Mr. McCamant considers the
stock a buy at as high as 25.
   Tops for 1991 was OTC Insight, a Moraga, Calif.,
newsletter written by James Collins, whose Insight Capital
manages some $55 million. Mr. Collins expects a "pullback" in
the market in February or March, but thinks the Dow Jones
Industrial Average will probably end 1992 at around 3550.
Small stocks will probably continue to outperform big ones
for the next few years, he believes.
   Mr. Collins likes companies whose earnings and stock price
are advancing briskly. "If a stock shows bad performance over
10 to 12 trading days, all the bells and whistles go off over
here to sell," he says. His core holdings include Novell,
Cisco Systems and Surgical Care Affiliates. His other
favorites include a slew of little-known names, such as Tech
Data, Empi, Solectron, Plexus Corp. (a separate stock from
Plexus Resources), Value Merchants, Dibrell Bros., Ballard
Medical Products and Electronic Arts.
   It should be noted that these successful newsletters were
the exceptions. Only 12 of the 80 newsletters tracked by
Hulbert for the past five years beat the SP 500 index. Last
year, when small stocks thrived (newsletters often specialize
in smaller stocks), 45 out of 125 letters beat the index.
   ---

                                                                                                       

   Estimated performance of investors following advice of
leading stock-market newsletters in periods ended Dec. 31,
1991.
                                                                                                       

               Best performance, 5 Years
                                                                                                       

    BI Research ........................    +323%
    MPT Review .........................    +314
    Medical Technology Stock Letter ....    +210
    Value Line OTC Special Situations ..    +192
    The Chartist .......................    +178
                                                                                                       

                 Best Performance, 1991
                                                                                                       

    OTC Insight ........................    +149%
    BI Research ........................    +148
    Granville Market Letter ............    +125
    Oberweis Report ....................    +112
    AgBiotech Stock Letter .............    +106
                                                                                                       

   Source: Hulbert Financial Digest