LEISURE  ARTS:
   Jousting at the Library
   ----
   By Larry Wallberg
Sue Saidenberg, the library's manager of exhibitions, has
a term for the people who go in for this kind of thing.
"They're medieval junkies," she says. Nearly 8,000 of these
benignly addicted anachronisms came out to watch the
Dobo-Peck contest, and to cheer on the other entertainers who
participated in the day's events. There were three fun-loving
masked musicians playing bagpipes, hurdy-gurdy and tabor.
There were some extremely serious morris dancing girls who
apparently thought that smiling was invented after the era in
question. There was a crew of inept ain't-I-cute jugglers and
a calculatingly apt magician, who asked an eight-year-old
volunteer assistant, "Can you add? Subtract? Divide and
conquer?" There was a minstrel storyteller, who, filling the
time while a crowd of youngsters waited for the
aforementioned sorcerer, led the group in a singalong of that
12th-century favorite, "Puff, the Magic Dragon."
   All of this may sound silly, but King Arthur Day was meant
to promote a good cause: love for the library. Bonnie
Rosenblum, one of the organizers of the event, says, "the
library is interested in being more proactive," in reaching
out to adults and children alike so "they don't walk by and
think we're a courthouse." Part of her job, she feels, is to
encourage the public, particularly the youngsters, to develop
a relationship with the edifice itself. "When you have a
building like this," she says, "you need to have people
physically interact with it." That's why so many of the
activities of the day were aimed at the little ones. Kids who
come in and spend a special few hours learning how to make
chain mail, do medieval calligraphy and create a coat of arms
might be more apt, in the future, to view the library as an
inviting place.
   If talk of King Arthur Day whets your appetite for
carousing with the Knights of the Round Table, you needn't go
far on your quest. Not coincidentally, the afternoon's
festivities heralded an exhibit called "King Arthur: Looking
at the Legend," at the library until Feb. 22. On display in
the library's Gottesman Exhibition Hall are 184 items of
printed Arthuriana, most of which are from the library's own
collection. Ruth Hamilton has come here on a crusade from
Chicago's Newberry Library, and, like the Lady of the Lake
(Michigan), has raised her curatorial hand to present us with
a priceless gift -- a lovingly created show that includes an
impressive sampling of books, manuscripts and illustrations,
all laid out attractively with informative textual notes.
   Among the highlights of the exhibition are a rare 1590
imprint of Spenser's "The Faerie Queene"; first editions of
Tennyson's "Idylls of the King" and Twain's "A Connecticut
Yankee in King Arthur's Court"; a musical sketch from
"Tristan und Isolde" by Richard Wagner; and illustrations by
Aubrey Beardsley, Gustave Dore and Arthur Rackham. For milord
and milady, there are four cartoons from the New Yorker, a
typescript of Jean Cocteau's "Knights of the Round Table,"
translated by W.H. Auden, and a special issue of Arthurian
legend stamps by the British Philatelic Museum.
   On the opposite end of the cultural spectrum, for the
pop-loving peasantry, there are photographs of Doug Henning
and Chita Rivera in Broadway's "Merlin," a "Prince Valiant"
comic book, an Excalibur drinking glass from the Las Vegas
hotel of the same name, and a board all set up to play
"Camelot: The Battle Game of Knights and Men." There's even a
17th-century Arthur narrative printed in -- oy, forsooth --
Yiddish.
   What makes the legend of the Once and Future King and his
chivalrous cronies so popular? Arthurian tales have been hot
ever since Geoffrey of Monmouth first hit the best-seller
lists with his "History of the Kings of Britain" sometime
around 1136. They fascinate us for the same reason that we're
all glued to our TV sets to hear of the lovely lady Gennifer:
They're cosmic stories of right vs. wrong, replete with
action and romance and marvelous occurrences, and featuring a
cast of well-known characters who don't always get along with
each other. They're the forebears of every western that's
ever been made, the granddaddies of James Bond and "Star
Trek." They've lived in humanity's collective imagination for
nearly a millennium, and provided the craft for countless
flights of fancy.
   Now it befalleth that the Lady Elizabeth, all girt with
heavy metal, did slowly pick herself up off the ground, and,
with a smile exceeding rare, did humbly thank the lords and
ladies for their show of approbation. And the people did make
for to disperse, betaking them to other climes with talk of
ozone layers, term limitations, bank failures, and the
absence of a hero in the land, when from the group a merryman
addressed the armored maid. "I bid thee," said the fellow
unto her, "a glad King Arthur Day." "And I to thee," the
puissant damsel did reply, "and everyone."
   ---
   Mr. Wallberg is a New York free-lance writer.