Investor Group Agrees to Buy Circle K
   For $425 Million, Assumption of Debt
   ----
   By Rhonda L. Rundle
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
"This alternative maximizes value for the creditor group
and is more desirable to the company. (The purchasers) are
quality investors with a reputation of investing for the long
term," said Bart A. Brown, chairman and chief executive
officer. Investcorp S.A. and its Arab and other investors
have major interests in Saks Fifth Avenue, Color Tile and
Gucci, a spokesman for the investment group said.
   But holders of $465 million of Circle K subordinated
bonds, who stand to receive only 6% of any proceeds, cried
foul. "That allocation is absurd; the bondholders expect a
considerably greater share of any deal," said Duncan N.
Darrow, a lawyer for the bondholders' committee.
   Under the earlier plan, Circle K had tentatively agreed
that bondholders would get 20% of new equity and that a
maximum of $40 million in new debt would be issued. The new
sale plan calls for all existing equity to be canceled and
the purchasing investors to receive all the new equity.
Circle K "reneged on its agreement," Mr. Darrow said. "There
probably will be litigation."
   In response, Circle K's Mr. Brown said, "When we weighed
the two alternatives, we found (the sale) in the better
interests of all our creditor constituencies." He said the
company has heard "favorable comments to the sale concept"
from its banks, noteholders and trade debt holders.
   It isn't clear how the bulk of the proceeds would be
divided among those creditor groups. "All of the cash would
go to creditors -- the secured portion (of their claims)
would be paid first, and then the unsecured portion would be
paid on a prorata share basis," Mr. Brown said.
   A bank group led by Citicorp's Citibank is owed about $375
million; $180 million is owed to noteholders, and there is
about $250 million of trade debt, Mr. Brown said. Subject to
approval by senior creditors, the plan also would give 2.25%
of the proceeds to Circle K shareholders. Circle K said its
largest shareholder is Joseph Pedoto, a Cincinnati investor
who late last year purchased a large stake from Carl
Lindner's American Financial Corp. of Cincinnati.
   Mr. Brown said the proposed sale would allow current
management to continue running the company, using a road map
drawn up late last year. That plan calls for the sale or
closure of 40% of Circle K's roughly 3,700 stores and
withdrawal from 14 of the 32 states in which it operates.
   A spokesman for the buy-out group said the deal includes
assumption of about $60 million of Circle K liabilities.
Besides Investcorp, partners in the group include Corp. CLN,
a leading Spanish industrial concern based in Barcelona, and
RAK Development Co., a Pittsburgh real estate concern
controlled by Robert Kathary. RAK owns about 450 Circle K
stores that are leased by the company. Mr. Kathary played a
large role in bringing the investors together, Mr. Brown
said.
   The investors have a right to terminate the agreement
within 60 days. The proposed sale, which is at the heart of
the company's reorganization plan, also must be approved by
creditors and the court.
   However, under certain provisions of the Bankruptcy Code,
the plan could be approved by the bankruptcy court even if it
isn't accepted by all the creditors.
   "We think there is a likelihood that this deal will be
completed before year-end," Mr. Brown said.