Politics  Policy -- Campaign '92:
   Democrats' Task in New Hampshire Is to Emerge
   From the Pack as a Plausible Challenger to Bush
   ----
   By David Shribman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
In this atmosphere, Jerry Brown must establish himself as
more than simply a critic of the political establishment,
Bill Clinton must extract a message from his portfolio of
proposals and Tom Harkin must energize the liberal activists
who can have an important impact in Democratic primaries. At
the same time, Bob Kerrey must project command of substantive
questions and Paul Tsongas must establish himself as
something more than a regional favorite son.
   None of those is an easy task. "These campaigns aren't
well developed at all right now," says Tom Schlesinger, a
political scientist at New Hampshire's Plymouth State
College. "They're still kind of half-floundering, feeling
their way."
   For four decades, no one has won the White House without
first winning the New Hampshire primary. The stakes are
especially high this year: With money scarce, a campaign that
stumbles in New Hampshire may be out of the race entirely.
   "The whole game is to keep your balance," says George
Stephanopoulos, deputy campaign manager for Arkansas Gov.
Clinton. "You've got to compete in New Hampshire without
losing sight of the primaries to come."
   As a result, the campaign is concentrated into a midwinter
political derby, where small events take on enormous
importance and where slight movements can be distorted into
massive trends. "Any little glitch or quick maneuver and the
situation can turn upside down," says Jean Hennessey, a
former national committeewoman in New Hampshire.
   Here are the major challenges facing each of the
contenders:
                                                                                                       

   Jerry Brown. The former California governor is mounting an
insurgency based on his conviction that U.S. politics has
been corrupted by money and the influence of special
interests. "People agree with what he's saying, but he hasn't
shaken the idea that he's eccentric," says Wayne King, the
state Senate's Democratic whip.
   So far, Mr. Brown has failed to go beyond his critique of
U.S. politics and develop positions for many of the important
issues facing the country. In the next several weeks, he must
go beyond indicting the system to offering ways of changing
it.
   At the same time, Mr. Brown is the lone Democrat to
challenge Iowa Sen. Harkin in the Iowa caucuses. If he is
serious about his effort in Iowa, the hardest thing will be
to remain in the state and fight to beat out "uncommitted"
for second place. "Staying focused and committed to an Iowa
strategy will require incredible discipline," says Michael
McCurry, a strategist for Sen. Kerrey of Nebraska.
                                                                                                       

   Bill Clinton. The five-term Arkansas governor clearly has
the momentum, both nationally and in New Hampshire, and has
made few missteps. He has excelled at the big things and at
the little. Not long ago, he listened to some prominent
Democrats in Claremont, N.H., complain about economic
conditions in the western part of the state and then
suggested a few people to contact for help; his gesture is
likely to lead to as many as 50 new jobs in the area -- and
support in the primary.
   But in the white-paper blizzard of proposals and programs
that he has developed, Mr. Clinton still hasn't distilled a
discrete, thematic message. And though he conceived of his
candidacy as a middle-class crusade, the campaign has become
so cautious that there's little of the crusading feeling
left.
   The candidate isn't likely to be able to ride above the
storm forever. "People up here are not going to let him get
away with running a mini-Rose Garden strategy," says Ned
Helms, a former state Democratic chairman. Mr. Clinton must
prove to Democrats that he can take the political assault
that almost surely is coming his way; some of the first
punches may come as early as Sunday night, when the five
candidates take part in a televised debate in Manchester.
   Mr. Clinton and his strategists must decide, moreover,
whether they want to pursue a nationwide strategy or return
to their original plan, which was to be a campaign with a
Southern base but with sufficient strength to make the
occasional successful Northern foray. The decision has
important implications. The problem with accepting the role
of national front-runner is that Mr. Clinton will have to win
everywhere -- so there will be landmines strewn across the
country, in Maine, South Dakota, Colorado and elsewhere.
                                                                                                       

   Tom Harkin. With his traditional Democratic message
containing trace elements of protectionism and class warfare,
the Iowan has to convince the old-line Democratic
organizations and unions that are his natural constituency
that he can win. A lot of them joined the Harkin effort early
in New Hampshire, but many of their associates have held back
and Mr. Harkin has been unable to build a strong
organization. "He hasn't seemed to catch on and no one knows
exactly why," says Michael Pignatelli, a Concord lawyer
prominent in Democratic politics.
   Mr. Harkin's biggest challenge is to transform the
character of the race, giving it an ideological edge that
will mobilize the activists he has already signed up and
attract the others who have hesitated. Mr. Harkin was
expected to profit from New York Gov. Mario Cuomo's decision
not to run, but he hasn't thus far. And though many union
organizations favor Mr. Harkin from the heart, they are
heeding their heads and siding with Mr. Clinton -- one of the
biggest mysteries of the campaign thus far. "People like
him," state Rep. Peter Burling, the Sullivan County
Democratic chairman, says of Mr. Harkin, "but there's the
appearance that there isn't a new idea there, and everybody
thinks we need to come up with new ideas."
                                                                                                       

   Bob Kerrey. The Nebraska senator has assembled the most
impressive national campaign staff and has attracted a
stunning array of promising young Democrats in New Hampshire:
Joe Keefe, who mounted a strong but unsuccessful House race
in 1990; Will Kanteres, a Manchester activist; Judy Reardon,
a public defender and former state representative; and Jeanne
Shaheen, a powerful state senator from the seacoast region.
   But the quality of the candidate hasn't yet matched the
quality of the campaign. Mr. Kerrey has been criticized for
vagueness, a malady that he hasn't completely purged from his
campaign. "He speaks of a desire to lead a new generation,"
says Robert Arsenault, a Dartmouth College expert on
presidential campaigns, "but he hasn't shown he can do it
yet."
   Though he seems to have taken steps toward pulling his
campaign message together, he now faces the question of
whether he will have the resources to project his ideas. His
fund-raising was flat until the Dec. 15 debate on NBC, where
he showed strength and intelligence. Since the holidays,
fund-raising has picked up to the point that he was able to
surprise the Clinton forces with a television ad the day
after the Arkansan began his broadcast assault.
                                                                                                       

   Paul Tsongas. The former Massachusetts senator has won
support for his economic prescriptions and for a plan
specifically tailored to a Granite State audience --
including a New Hampshire venture-capital fund, science and
biotechnology parks close to the University of New Hampshire
and Dartmouth College, and an overhaul of the state's
director-liability regulations.
   But Mr. Tsongas must convince these New Hampshire voters
that he is a serious national candidate and not just a
regional one. Massachusetts's proximity to New Hampshire
worked to Michael Dukakis's advantage four years ago, but
unlike Mr. Dukakis, Mr. Tsongas has no strategy to take
advantage of any boost he receives in New Hampshire.
   He doesn't have the public appeal of Mr. Clinton or Mr.
Kerrey, drawing instead on what strategists for former Gov.
Bruce Babbitt of Arizona used to call the "charisma of
competence." That has only a modest track record in
presidential politics, however. "If Tsongas were running for
secretary of commerce," says Mr. Burling, the Sullivan County
chairman, "we'd all vote for him."
   ---
                Will the Circle Be Unbroken?
                                                                                                       

   Every person elected president since 1952 has first won
the New Hampshire primary
                                                                                                       

                Democratic              GOP
                Primary                 Primary
   Year         Winner                  Winner
                                                                                                       

   1952         Estes Kefauver          Dwight Eisenhower
   1956         Estes Kefauver          Dwight Eisenhower
   1960         John Kennedy            Richard Nixon
   1964         Lyndon Johnson          Henry Cabot Lodge
   1968         Lyndon Johnson          Richard Nixon
   1972         Edmund Muskie           Richard Nixon
   1976         Jimmy Carter            Gerald Ford
   1980         Jimmy Carter            Ronald Reagan
   1984         Gary Hart               Ronald Reagan
   1988         Michael Dukakis         George Bush