REVIEW  OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   Steep Grade at State
For those who remain dedicated to the ideal of universal
opportunity, as epitomized by the land-grant colleges, the
second straight year of double-digit percentage leaps in what
most state universities charge is a reminder of the often
reckless nature of public finance. These kinds of increases,
with all the havoc they wreak on family budgets and
individual futures, were made necessary because some elected
officials spend as if there's no tomorrow.
   To wit: During the flush years of the mid-1980s, states
brought down the natural rate of tuition growth. In 1988-89,
for instance, prices rose only 4% at the average four-year
public institution. Governors as disparate as George
Deukmejian in California and Mario Cuomo in New York held
charges virtually flat from 1983 on. That policy wasn't
sustainable.
   This year California's second-tier system, the state
colleges and universities, has been so strapped for funds
that it's had to cancel required classes and force many
students to wait an additional term to graduate. Once
Governor Pete Wilson opened the door for them, trustees
recently raced to raise fees 40% for next year in order to
restore courses.
   This is more evidence that for all the criticism of
short-term thinking in the corporate board rooms of this
country, it's our public officials who often won't look
beyond the current fiscal year. When times are good, they
avoid difficult decisions, such as keeping state-university
tuition up with expenses. In a recession, the result can be
stiff increases during a period when students and their
families are least able to afford them.
   Higher education, for all of its periodic outrages, is one
of America's comparative advantages. Undermining it would be
foolish. And, indeed, some good is coming from the current
adversity. The well-off are paying more for what they can
afford, under utilized two-year colleges are attracting more
interest, and all colleges (public and private) are demanding
more from professors and other staff who might have forgotten
that resources are scarce in this life. Maybe the political
leadership will learn something from the episode, too, though
history is not one of its strong subjects.