Technology:
   Intel-AMD Clash Is Close to a Climax
   ----
   By Stephen Kreider Yoder
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Next month, an arbitrator is expected to rule on AMD's
claim that Intel owes it compensation for withholding chip
technology in the 1980s. In March, a California court will
test Intel's claim that AMD's clones abuse Intel copyrights.
   "In the next six months, the hottest territory is going to
be AMD vs. Intel," says Kenneth Lowe, an analyst at Dataquest
Inc., a market-research concern. "The outcome of this battle
will seriously affect what occurs later."
   The Silicon Valley spat is hot because it concerns one of
the healthiest and most profitable computer-industry markets.
Sales of microprocessors, most of which become the "brains"
of PCs, grew 36% to about $3.3 billion in 1991, estimates
Dataquest. Intel and AMD profited handsomely last year
despite the recession, while many other chip makers' earnings
languished.
   The battle delights PC makers and buyers alike. AMD's
assaults on Intel's turf have increased the pace of
innovation in microprocessors and forced down prices, PC
makers say. The ultimate winners have been consumers, who
have seen the price of a fast 386-based PC driven to under
$1,000 from nearly $2,000 in barely a year.
   AMD's new 486 clone will broaden that battle into the
higher-performance markets, say PC makers who expect to use
the chip. "We'll be able to plug in the {AMD} 486s as soon as
they're ready," says Chaz Haba, chief executive officer of
Los Angeles-based Bell Computer Corp., which sells PCs to
Price Club and other mass-market outlets. "A lot of guys will
pick up on it."
   With its new 486, AMD is expected to stick with a strategy
that made its earlier clones hot items, selling chips at
about the same list price as Intel's but with some added
punch. Among several other 486 versions, for example, AMD
will offer a 3.3-volt chip; Intel's 486 chips run at five
volts, too high for long battery life in laptop machines. PC
makers say AMD also plans to sell a 486 running at 66
megahertz, about 32% faster than Intel's fastest 486 chip.
AMD also announced new 386 chips that are up to 32% faster
than Intel's.
   AMD has a history of horning in on Intel's business. It
first shipped its 386 clone last March; in the fourth
quarter, the chip brought revenue of $145 million and grabbed
a nearly 30% share of the 386 market. AMD expects 386 sales
in this year's first quarter will total $180 million.
   Nevertheless, AMD will have a tougher time in the high-end
market than in 386s, says Michael Slater, editor of
Microprocessor Report, a newsletter. Intel, based in Santa
Clara, Calif., had largely stopped improving its 386s,
preferring to steer customers to higher-profit 486 chips, Mr.
Slater says. AMD, of Sunnyvale, Calif., "was able to find a
market because Intel had stopped pushing the 386. Intel
hasn't stopped pushing the 486."
   Indeed, Intel may have time on its side. AMD says it won't
start shipping large volumes of its 486 clones until the
fourth quarter of 1992. By that time, Intel expects to be
selling its next-generation "586" microprocessor as well as
30 new varieties of its latest chips, including low-voltage
and higher-speed versions of the 486.
   Still, W.J. Sanders, AMD's chairman and chief executive,
says the company isn't out to fight at the leading edge but
to play where the highest volumes are, in low-cost and
battery-powered PCs using 386 chips. "I'd rather be making
the Walkmans" of the PC market, he says. "Up until now, they
haven't made it very hard for us."
   Pending legal battles could make it easier, or much
harder, for AMD. Sometime in February, possibly as soon as
next week, an arbitrator will decide what compensation, if
any, Intel owes to AMD for backing out of a 1982 agreement
between the companies. Under the deal, Intel was to grant AMD
the rights to make the 386 chip in exchange for the rights to
chips that AMD was to design. Intel killed the deal in 1987
without forking over the 386 rights. AMD's Mr. Sanders has
blamed a subsequent string of money-losing quarters at AMD on
Intel's refusal to hand over the 386 rights.
   In 1990, the arbitrator ruled that Intel had acted in bad
faith but also that AMD had failed to deliver its part of the
bargain. He now will announce remedies. In the most extreme
case, the mediator could demand that Intel pay hundreds of
millions of dollars to AMD and even give AMD the right to use
Intel's 386 technologies.
   Intel vows to appeal almost any decision the arbitrator
comes up with, arguing that, under the original agreement
with AMD, the arbitrator can't grant damages for lost profit.
Likewise, if the arbitrator grants AMD the 386 rights, says
Intel lawyer Thomas Dunlap, "Intel would appeal to superior
court that he doesn't have the power to do that, that it's
outside his jurisdiction."
   Whatever the ruling, it isn't likely to have a material
impact on Intel, Mr. Dunlap says. AMD, for its part, says it
will accept the arbitrator's decision.
   That won't be the end of the story. In March, a California
federal court is scheduled to consider a potentially more
critical case, a lawsuit in which Intel has accused AMD of
illegally using copyrights on software called microcode. AMD
admits to using Intel's microcode in its clones but says it
has the right to do so under a 1976 agreement.
   If the court rules in AMD's favor, the company will be
able to use Intel microcode in chips developed until 1995,
AMD's Mr. Sanders says; that would be enough time to cover
the 586 and even a further generation, the 686, which Intel
is already developing. But a court ruling against AMD could
throw its new-found success into question, requiring it to
re-engineer its chips to circumvent Intel's copyrights.
   Clearing the legal cloud is crucial for AMD to increase
market share. While such big U.S. PC makers as AST Research
Inc. of Irvine, Calif., have begun using its chips, Japanese
PC makers haven't because of legal worries. Intel, says AMD
lawyer Thomas Armstrong, has "figured out how to frighten and
intimidate a lot of people -- our friends and customers."
   AMD, charging that Intel conspired to bar it from markets,
filed a federal antitrust suit last year that is expected to
go to court next year. And the Federal Trade Commission last
year began an informal inquiry into Intel's business
practices. Intel says it has no intention of intimidating
anyone, that it is legitimately guarding its
intellectual-property rights and that it hasn't broken
antitrust laws.
   Meanwhile, several smaller players plan to join the
fracas. Chips  Technologies of Milpitas, Calif., and Cyrix
Corp. of Richardson, Texas, plan to begin selling 386 chips
this year. Others, including NexGen Microsystems Inc. of San
Jose, Calif., and several Japanese and Taiwanese concerns
have Intel-compatible chips in the works.