International -- Washington Insight:
   A Year Later, Goal to Topple Saddam
   And Formula to Do It Remain the Same
   ----
   By Gerald F. Seib
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Such signs of trouble have stoked the administration's
yearning to get the Iraqi dictator who, against all odds,
survived his drubbing in last year's Persian Gulf War. They
prompted a recent policy review, in which the administration
made contingency plans to provide U.S. air cover to support a
coup, officials say.
   "There is a generalized sentiment that this administration
isn't interested in another Panama One," says one U.S.
official, referring to the first ill-fated effort by
Panamanian military officers to oust Manuel Noriega, which
caught the administration flat-footed and unprepared to help.
   Yet despite some overheated press speculation in the past
few weeks, the administration hasn't altered its central
analysis of the best way to topple Saddam Hussein. Officials
still calculate that a successful coup can start only from
within the core Sunni Muslim ruling clique in Baghdad. That
means the U.S. is counting on an insurrection from inside the
army, the Republican Guard, the ruling Baath Party or -- an
intriguing new possibility -- Saddam Hussein's own extended
family, where there seems to be increasing turmoil.
   Senior administration officials deny recent news reports
that the U.S. has changed its view and decided to arm Shiite
and Kurdish rebels in southern and northern Iraq. There still
is little appetite inside the administration for setting off
a sectarian war that, U.S. officials fear, might rip apart
Iraq without booting Saddam from his perch in Baghdad.
   There is some sentiment in Congress for a covert American
program to arm ethnic Iraqi rebels, particularly the Kurds.
But in general, the administration's cautious attitude is
shared on Capitol Hill, officials there say.
   Democrats who opposed the war in the first place are
particularly unenthusiastic about endorsing a risky covert
action program, the aim of which would be to help President
Bush dispose of the biggest blemish the war left on him. None
of the eight Democrats on the Senate Intelligence Committee,
which would have to be consulted on a covert program to arm
anti-regime Iraqis, voted for last year's resolution
approving use of force against Iraq.
   The administration believes that Kurdish and Shiite rebels
simply mightn't have the clout or organization to topple
Saddam Hussein, and that any initial success they might have
would simply allow the dictator to rally his Sunni Muslim
minority around him.
   The administration has become more willing, though, to
work with Shiites, as well as Kurds, as part of an effort to
create a broad opposition coalition to oppose Saddam Hussein
and offer itself as an alternative to his rule. And Saudi
Arabia, deeply concerned it could be the target of revenge by
Saddam Hussein, has lost some of its fear that helping Shiite
rebels could help create a new, radical, Iran-like Shiite
state on the Persian Gulf.
   As a result, the Saudis are more willing to funnel help to
Shiite rebels, U.S. officials say. Clearly, Shiite fighters
are getting weapons from somewhere, though U.S. officials
think most of the arms were captured from the Iraqi army in
the chaos following the war or are supplied covertly by Iran.
   Similarly, despite its cautious attitude, the
administration has stepped up its signals encouraging a
rebellion from within Iraq's Sunni ruling clique. There are
signs the U.S. and its allies are pumping more propaganda
into Iraq encouraging such action. And though the recent
policy review revealed deep Pentagon skepticism about getting
U.S. forces involved in some murky enterprise with uncertain
chances, officials say it at least generated general
guidelines for helping would-be coup plotters.
   Still, while the level of interest is higher, the
underlying policy analysis doesn't appear much different now
than a year ago.