International:
   World Wire
   ----
   Compiled by Richard L. Holman
Global lending agencies' support for Eastern European
countries making market reforms can't continue indefinitely
at current levels, an International Monetary Fund official
said.
   Eastern Europe faces new competition from the former
Soviet states for assistance. The aide didn't specify IMF
commitments or disbursements to former East bloc countries
this year, but he said that to compensate for an expected
decline in aid, they should intensify efforts to attract
private foreign capital and maintain financial stabilization
policies.
   The IMF was prepared to provide $5 billion to Eastern
European member states last year, the official said, but
disbursed only about $3.6 billion, though this catalyst
generated $18.5 billion as other lenders followed the IMF's
lead.
   Separately, Hungary's economic tailspin should end this
year, a central bank official said, predicting flat growth
after last year's 6% to 7% decline, which didn't reflect all
private-sector growth, especially by small business.
Inflation could fall to 20% from 34%, below the 38% IMF
aid-program target, he said.
                                                                                                       

   EC ECONOMIC GROWTH FLAT
                                                                                                       

   Economic growth in the European Community remained flat
last autumn, with industrialists a bit less pessimistic but
consumers and shopkeepers gloomier than ever. The EC said its
surveys detected few clear signs of either a pickup or
deterioration in business activity. Meanwhile, EC states'
inflation dropped to a three-year low of 4.8% last year, down
from 5.7% in 1990, though this still trailed annual rates of
3.1% in the U.S. and 2.5% in Japan.
                                                                                                       

   BUSINESS DOLDRUMS DOWN UNDER
                                                                                                       

   Australian companies remain pessimistic about business
conditions in the current quarter, a survey found. The firms
don't expect the country's economy to recover from the
recession until late this year or early next year. In its
quarterly survey of medium-sized and large firms, National
Bank Australia Ltd. said respondents in the December poll
expected poor operating and earnings conditions to persist at
least until the second quarter. Companies continued to reduce
their staffs in the 1991 fourth quarter and most of those
surveyed said they would shed more workers in this quarter.
                                                                                                       

   POLISH INDUSTRY SPUTTERS
                                                                                                       

   A sharp cut in Russian natural gas has forced most
factories in Poland's chemical and heavy industries such as
steel to limit and even halt output. Daily supplies of
Russian gas have fallen more than 40% since Jan. 1, and
extremely cold temperatures raised public use of gas for
heating. These imports represented two-thirds of Polish
consumption before the cut, made despite a $2.8 billion
barter deal with Moscow in December to increase gas and oil
supplies in exchange for Polish food, sulfur, coal and
pharmaceuticals.
                                                                                                       

   SOUTH KOREAN RAILROAD PROJECT
                                                                                                       

   South Korea said it would begin in June its previously
announced $8 billion high-speed railroad between Seoul and
the southeastern port of Pusan. Construction of the 254-mile
railway, starting with a 37-mile section between the central
cities of Taejon and Chunan, is to be completed in 1998.
Officials said participation is expected by 38 foreign firms,
and suppliers will be named by the end of June.
                                                                                                       

   SCOTS POLLED ON INDEPENDENCE
                                                                                                       

   A majority of the Scottish people want either independence
from Britain or greater autonomy, according to a poll that
could fuel a home-rule campaign in this year's general
election. The survey in the Scottish edition of the Sun
newspaper found that 40% of the respondents favored
establishing an independent state, 34% wanted to remain part
of Britain but have a separate Scottish parliament, and 22%
would like to maintain the constitutional links with England
dating back to 1707. Britain's ruling Conservatives oppose
home rule for Scotland; opposition Labor favors revised
powers.
                                                                                                       

   CHINA'S COPYRIGHT PREPARATION
                                                                                                       

   China plans to join an international copyright convention
this year in its efforts to bring protection of intellectual
property rights up to world standards.
   The National People's Congress is expected to receive a
proposal soon to join the Universal Copyright Convention,
Shen Rengan, deputy chief of Beijing's State Copyright
Administration, told the official Xinhua news service.
Joining the convention would mean, for example, that China
must protect works published in other nations that have
signed the accord.
   China has been accused of allowing piracy of foreign
copyrights and it narrowly averted a trade battle with the
U.S. this month with an agreement on protection of American
intellectual property.
   Beijing said it has fined companies and factories for
copying overseas trademarks, such as Adidas and Levi Strauss.
It also has designated agencies to deal with trademark
registration disputes involving foreign businesses.
                                                                                                       

   POSTSCRIPTS . . .
                                                                                                       

   War-torn Yugoslavia devalued its currency, the dinar, by
80% on Saturday. The new official rate for the dinar is 65
dinars to one German mark, compared with the previous rate of
13 dinars to one mark. . . . Armed robberies in Belgium last
year jumped 52% to 2,350 reported cases -- about half of them
in Brussels -- from 1,550 a year earlier, police said.
Reported vehicle thefts climbed 28% to about 30,000, and 65%
of the vehicles were recovered.