International:
   Kazakhstan,
   Elf Aquitaine
   Set Oil Pact
   ----
   By Robert Johnson
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Elf said it plans to "invest several hundred million
dollars for exploration" and expects production to begin in
about 1995. Analysts put the exploration figure at between
$600 million and $800 million, and some believe production
could begin a year sooner than forecast by Elf.
   If successful, Elf's Kazakhstan venture may "put an
effective lid on oil prices world-wide by the mid-1990s,"
said Norman Higby, an oil-industry consultant based in Menlo
Park, Calif.
   Moreover, Elf's pact may enable it to elbow past Chevron
Corp., which had been negotiating with officials of the
former Soviet Union and in Kazakhstan for a joint venture in
the region of the Caspian Sea. A Chevron spokeswoman said the
company is still negotiating with Kazakhstan officials. "We
feel very confident. The proposed deal is alive and well,"
she said, adding that the company "expects to hear something
in the next four to six weeks."
   Its stock was quoted at $61.625 a share, down $2.125,
while Elf's American depositary shares were $32.75, up 25
cents, both in late New York Stock Exchange trading.
   Chevron, based in San Francisco, said in its 1990 annual
report it hoped to begin production in 1991. Then came the
failed Soviet coup last August, slowing the negotiations of
seemingly every Western oil major except Elf, which stopped
its talks for only two days.
   Elf, which earlier this month signed a similar agreement
with the Russian republic, said the Kazakhstan pact covers an
exploration area of about 12,500 square miles -- about the
same as in Russia. Elf's Kazakhstan block is located
southwest of the city of Aktyubinsk.
   Yet an Elf spokesman wasn't immediately certain how the
company will get its oil out of Kazakhstan; the closest
pipeline hookup to a seaport may well be 300 miles to the
west. "It's virgin territory," he said, adding that Elf's
block hasn't been explored by Kazakhstan engineers. And to be
sure, political uncertainties complicate everything in the
former Soviet Union.
   As an example of the reign of confusion, in late January a
consortium of Mitsui  Co. of Japan, Marathon Oil Co. and
McDermott International Inc. of the U.S. had been chosen to
conduct feasibility studies of hydrocarbon deposits off
Sakhalin island, in what appeared to be the largest
industrial project with the newly independent Russia. The
contract has the potential to become a multibillion-dollar
project. But last week, the Supreme Council of the Russian
Federation said it set up a committee to re-examine the
award, amid indications that there was some disagreement
between local and central Russian governments over the
contract.
   It wasn't immediately clear whether Elf's pact will have
an effect on negotiations by Chevron and other companies to
gain footholds in Kazakhstan. But analysts said Elf's move is
almost certain to raise the entry costs for companies that
follow, in that Kazakhstan officials will have gained
bargaining experience and probably won't feel compelled to
grant as many incentives, now that they have one major
company's commitment.
   Elf, based in Paris, is 53.9%-owned by the French
government. It's one of the few major companies that produces
as much oil as it uses. Elf's reputation as a proven producer
may spur U.S. companies, cautious up to now, into pursuing
ventures in the republics of the former Soviet Union.