Enterprise:
   Small-Business Lobbyists See Rare Chance for Impact
   ---
   This Political Year, Confluence
   Of Factors Is Heightening PAC Activity
   ----
   By Barbara Marsh
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The Realtor group's federal PAC, a major campaign
contributor, aims to raise $5.2 million from its 750,000
Realtor members in the 1991-92 election fund-raising cycle,
up more than 8% from the previous two-year cycle when the
economy was in better shape.
   Today, discontent over the economy is encouraging an
"anti-incumbency wave" among the electorate, contends Tom
Sponsler, who heads a program at the Business-Industry
Political Action Committee that helps businesses support
state legislative candidates. "Small businesses are aware for
the first time of the need to get involved in the process,"
he asserts.
   One piece of legislation that has heightened
small-business people's resolve to get more active
politically is the Americans With Disabilities Act of 1990,
which will force even the tiniest businesses to make
potentially costly alterations to accommodate disabled
customers.
   Indeed, more small businesses are getting involved in
forming PACs. Suresh Arurkar, owner of an import-export
business, is preparing to start a state PAC this year for the
Maryland chapter of the American Small Businesses
Association, based in Grapevine, Texas. The group's members
plan to back candidates who will support small-business
financing assistance, cuts in business-property taxes, and
revival of a program that gives employers a tax credit for
hiring locals.
   Other groups are bolstering existing efforts. The National
Association of Convenience Stores has doubled its PAC board
to eight members to step up fund-raising. One of its goals is
to back legislation to prevent refiners from charging
convenience stores that sell gasoline more than the refiners
charge their own adjacent outlets.
   The National Federation of Independent Business aims to
add 1,000 members to its PAC, raising the total to about
8,000. It also hopes to boost members' average donations by
encouraging members to call their fellow members.
   This week, the federation is kicking off a mailing to
3,000 loyal PAC donors. It will follow up with mailings to
other members, once it decides which candidates it will
endorse this year. As in recent years, the nation's largest
trade group that represents only small businesses will target
incumbents it views as anti-small business.
   The group plans to concentrate its efforts: it says its
national PAC will actively assist fewer than 20 congressional
candidates. That's all its staff can handle, says Lisa Scott,
manager of the group's PAC.
   In the slow economy, small-business PACs are working to
expand their base by scaring up more small donors. That's the
aim of the National Association of Homebuilders. Tom Baker,
who runs the association's PAC, says his organization raised
its direct-mail budget by 20% to increase its mailings to
members and has begun holding golf tournaments for small
donors. This is to reduce its reliance on a few big donors.
As a result, the association increased the number of donors
in 1991 by 58% to 5,027 -- and raised $800,000 toward its
two-year goal of $1.8 million.
   As competition for contributions intensifies in the slow
economy, small-business groups are fine-tuning their
fund-raising strategies. Boston restaurateur Thomas A.
Kershaw, who heads the National Restaurant Association's PAC,
says he will ask the group's board members to write personal
solicitations to fellow restaurateurs in their various
states. "We are going to personalize the request, rather than
mailing a bland request for money from the Washington
office," he says.
   Other groups are seizing this year's elections as a chance
to revive their PACs. "In the 1982 election cycle, we made
over $100,000 in contributions and we have not met that goal
since then," says Teri Richman, PAC treasurer for the
National Association of Convenience Stores, in Alexandria,
Va. Among other factors, she says, people feel so many
incumbents get reelected, trying to unseat them is useless.
   Last year, however, the association moved to rebuild its
PAC by establishing clubs for both big and small donors.
Members of the 365 Club, who give $1 a day, get lapel pins
and recognition. Capitol Club members, who give $1,000 or
more, get perks such as lunch with lawmakers.
   Still, fund-raising for small-business groups won't be
easy this year. The slow economy will keep financially
stressed businesses from giving as much as they might in
healthier times. And, small-business political advisers say,
many small businesses avoid PACs in general now, shunning
their reputation for representing special interests and
protecting incumbents.
   "Fund-raising is very tough {now}," says the federation's
Ms. Scott. But Ms. Scott aims to raise about $800,000 for the
current 1991-92 federal election cycle, up $50,000 from the
prior 1989-90 period. "If we can increase it a little bit,"
she says, "I consider that a success."
   Some groups are stressing approaches other than reliance
on PACs. Two years ago, the National Grocers Association
stopped soliciting contributions to its PAC and maintains it
at only a minimal level. Instead, the group encourages its
2,000 members to donate individually to local political
candidates. And it raises money -- $125,000 targeted this
year -- to fund a political education committee.
   Other groups, too, aren't limiting their efforts to
fund-raising. The U.S. Chamber of Commerce says it will push
to boost voter turnout among business owners, large and
small. Daniel Kush, director of public affairs, says, "You
can have all the PACs in the world, but if people don't turn
out to vote, what good are they?"