LEISURE  ARTS -- Bookshelf:
   What Went Wrong at Wang
   ----
   By Joseph Nocera
Now comes Charles C. Kenney, a reporter for the Boston
Globe, to detail the lessons the Doctor left out -- the real
lessons, as it turns out, in "the rise and decline of Wang
Laboratories," to borrow from his book's subtitle. "Riding
the Runaway Horse" (Little, Brown, 323 pages, $22.95) is a
kind of Tom Peters tome in reverse, a painful primer in how
to turn a once great company into a laughingstock.
   Make no mistake: Wang Laboratories was absolutely a great
company in its prime -- the virtual creator of the market for
computerized office products, the employer of 32,000 people,
mostly in Massachusetts, the generator of 30 straight years
of increased profit, and most inspiring of all, a wonderful
example of what an immigrant with ambition and ideas can
accomplish in America. (Mr. Wang was born in China.)
   There was a time not that long ago when every secretary in
America swore by Wang products, a time when the company was
growing so fast that it really must have felt like a runaway
horse. How could a franchise this strong be piddled away in a
few short years? Although Mr. Kenney's book is shaped as a
narrative, you won't have much trouble finding the answers.
Or should I say the lessons?
   Lesson No. 1: Genius is not genetically transmitted.
Everyone now agrees that many of the problems at Wang
Laboratories began and ended with An Wang's decision to groom
his oldest son, Fred, to be his successor. "He was driven not
by money or power, but by a desire to pass along his empire
to his sons," writes Mr. Kenney, who adds that Mr. Wang was
adhering to a value system he had learned in China, where
family comes before all else. But sometimes it makes more
sense to be driven by money, especially when you supposedly
owe a fiduciary responsibility to the people who own shares
in your company.
   Mr. Wang's solution to this problem was to establish two
classes of stock, thus ensuring that shareholders could not
stand in his way, no matter how much he put his personal
interests ahead of theirs. Mr. Kenney describes Fred Wang as
a nice enough fellow, but plainly ill-equipped to manage a
multibillion-dollar company. But when Wang's directors
objected to Mr. Wang's plan to install number one son as
company president in 1986 -- after the son had made a botch
of the company's product development -- the founder would
brook no dissent. "He is my son," Mr. Wang insisted. "He can
do it."
   Lesson No. 2: Arrogance is bad for business. And heavens
knows, Wang Laboratories was one arrogant place after its
great triumphs of the late 1970s and early 1980s. Its key
product was its revolutionary word processor, a forerunner to
the personal computer, a machine in such incredible demand
that customers would wait months to get their hands on one.
Unfortunately, Wang started to believe that its products were
so good that customers would always wait months for them. In
this it was mistaken. As for Mr. Wang, his arrogance took a
somewhat different form.
   So convinced was he that his instincts were unerring that
he simply refused the entreaties of his staff to develop a
personal computer. It is quite possible that had Wang
developed such a machine, it would have owned the PC market,
since its word processor had given it a huge head start in
penetrating the office market.
   Lesson No. 3: When you make product announcements, it
helps to have products. That product-development botch I
mentioned earlier? It was a doozy. In 1983, realizing that
the company had missed the personal computer revolution, Fred
Wang needed to find a way to keep Wang's customers loyal
until it could develop its own competitive machines. So one
day, he simply announced a series of 14 products, many of
which were dazzlingly innovative. It turned out, however,
that many of them existed only on paper. "The event," writes
Mr. Kenney, "was madness." Eventually customers began
catching on, which is around the time they also began
switching to IBM in droves.
   Lesson No. 4: When the chief executive officer, who has
always avoided the slightest hint of pomp and circumstance,
begins hiring security guards, buying corporate jets and
moving into a 3,000-square-foot office with a marble
fireplace and a whirlpool bath, it is not a good sign. Mr.
Wang had become, in the words of former Wang President John
Cunningham, "a humble egomaniac."
   Lesson No. 5: Firing your son will usually generate some
negative publicity. This is the moment people still remember
about the decline of Wang Laboratories; that August day in
1989 when a desperately ill An Wang finally fired his son as
president of Wang in a last-ditch effort to revive the
company. The moment, widely publicized, seemed so poignant
and truly sad, though as Mr. Kenney reports, it was all
transacted in a fairly businesslike fashion, with both father
and son knowing that the son was going to have to take the
fall, and Fred Wang for once in his life rising to the
occasion, accepting his public humiliation with grace and
dignity.
   As to whether this action will turn out to have saved the
company Mr. Wang both built and nearly destroyed is difficult
to know, even now. But at least it has a chance. There aren't
any Wangs at Wang anymore.
   ---
   Mr. Nocera writes The Profit Motive column for GQ
magazine.