Law:
   Product Suits Yield Few Punitive Awards
   ----
   By Milo Geyelin
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Punitive damages are awarded by juries to punish
wrongdoers for outrageous conduct and to set an example.
Usually they are awarded on top of so-called compensatory
damages, aimed at compensating victims for their losses.
Advocates of legal reform -- chief among them Vice President
Dan Quayle -- contend that punitive damages against
manufacturers have become so routine, arbitrary and excessive
that companies are withholding new products for fear of being
sued over potential defects. Vice President Quayle and others
argue that punitive damages harm the nation's ability to
compete.
   But that theory is rebutted by the study, conducted by
Michael Rustad, a Suffolk University Law School professor,
and Thomas Koenig, a Northeastern University professor, and
partly funded by the Roscoe Pound Foundation, which is
affiliated with the Association of Trial Lawyers of America.
Using computer-based statistical sources, case records,
follow-up surveys and interviews with plaintiff and defense
lawyers, the study tracked all punitive damage jury verdicts
since 1965 to determine the amounts actually paid by
defendants.
   Among the findings:
   -- Only 355 punitive damage verdicts were returned by
state and federal court juries during the 25-year period, an
astonishingly low number. One quarter of those awards
involved a single product, asbestos.
   -- In the majority of the 276 cases where complete
post-trial information was available, punitive damage awards
were thrown out or reduced by the presiding judge or by an
appeals court. Plaintiffs received no punitive damages in 111
cases (40.2%), reduced judgments in 39 cases (14.1%) and full
jury awards in 126 cases (45.7%).
   -- The median punitive damage award for all product
liability cases actually paid since 1965 was $625,000,
slightly above the median compensatory damage award --
$500,100. Punitive damages were significantly higher than
compensatory damages in only about 25% of the cases.
   -- The aggravating factors leading to high awards that
lawyers most often cited in interviews and surveys were
failure to reduce risk of a known danger and failure to warn
consumers of those risks.
   "Most Fortune 500 companies have not had a single punitive
damage award against them," says Prof. Rustad. "I think
companies have nothing to worry about in punitive damages as
long as they act responsibly."
   Advocates of legal reform say they aren't surprised by the
finding that punitive damages are often reduced or thrown out
entirely. "Bombs in airplanes don't go off that often," says
Peter Huber, a leading advocate of legal reform and author of
a widely read treatise on the subject, "The Legal Revolution
and Its Consequences."
   "The point is punitive damages cause tremendous amounts of
economic harm when they do happen," he says.
   "The biggest problem we have with punitive damage claims
is that they are used as a lever for out-of-court
settlements," says William Fay, a Washington lobbyist for a
coalition of business and manufacturing groups pushing a
federal products liability law to limit punitive damages.
"Even when punitive damages aren't returned," Mr. Fay says,
"that doesn't mean that a company hasn't spent a lot of money
on defense."
   Mr. Rustad counters that mere claims for punitive damages
never carry weight in settlement negotiations unless they
have possible merit. Moreover, his study's findings are in
line with several recent studies and reports that are
critical of claims that personal injury litigation is
swamping the courts with a pro-plaintiff "litigation
explosion."
   A federal study of product liability suits in five states
conducted by the Government Accounting Office two years ago
reached conclusions similar to those of Profs. Rustad and
Koenig: Plaintiffs won fewer than 50% of the cases, the sizes
of jury awards were neither erratic nor excessive and
punitive damages were highly correlated to economic loss.
   A study released last April by the Rand Corp. Institute
for Civil Justice challenged the accepted view that Americans
are too quick to sue over their accidents and mistakes. A
survey of 26,000 households nationwide found that only one in
10 of the estimated 23 million individuals injured each year
considers filing suit.
   And the National Center for State Courts, in a survey of
13 state court systems from 1984 to 1989, concluded last year
that "the most dramatic increase in the civil caseloads
tended to be for real property rights cases or contract
cases, not torts" (suits over accidents and injuries).
   The debate over legal reform is expected to expand this
year. Last August, Vice President Quayle submitted a package
of 50 legal system changes drafted by the President's Council
on Competitiveness, which he heads. The recommendations,
which blame the nation's declining competitiveness in part on
excessive litigation and runaway jury awards, would require a
higher burden of proof to win punitive damages and limit them
to the amount of compensatory damages.
   Thirty-three states already have laws on the books
intended to limit liability and reduce damage awards, and
seven have placed caps on punitive damage amounts. Meanwhile,
a proposed federal law that seeks to limit punitive damages
in product liability cases and would pre-empt weaker state
initiatives is pending in Congress, where it cleared the
Senate Committee on Commerce, Science and Transportation in
October.
   But the bill, heavily supported by business and
manufacturing groups, faces opposition from lawyer groups, a
wide range of health and consumer organizations, the National
Conference of State Legislatures and the Conference of State
Supreme Court Justices.