House Democrats Narrowly Approve Bill
   To Cut Taxes of Middle Class, Businesses
   ---
   Veto Is Virtual Certainty;
   Strategy Is to Force Bush
   Into Unpopular Choice
   ----
   By Jackie Calmes
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
So, even as the House took a big step toward meeting Mr.
Bush's March 20 deadline for action on an economic-stimulus
plan, the slim House approval margin indicated Democrats
couldn't override a Bush veto even if they wanted to. Their
strategy is to force the president to choose between signing
their bill and reneging on his no-new-taxes pledge, or
killing a bill that would cut taxes, though modestly, for
most Americans.
   President Bush denounced the vote as "a predictable, sad,
sorry performance" that merely underscored the "tax-and-spend
policies" of the Democrats. Speaking at a news conference
following a drug summit with Latin American leaders, he
called on the Senate to be "a little wiser" than the House.
In any case, he pledged that the House bill "won't become
law." Later, he denounced the House action as a "vote against
creating jobs and stimulating the economy."
   Increasingly, lawmakers from both political parties are
looking beyond the veto, and predicting that at best they
will agree later this year on a much-reduced package. "My
guess is we'll end up with some more modest pro-growth
package later on this year," said Rep. Jim Slattery (D.,
Kan.).
   By summer, Congress and the administration face decisions
on extending some popular tax incentives, emergency
unemployment aid and the government's debt limit, all of
which could serve as vehicles for broader action on cutting
taxes.
   "This won't die," said a senior administration official.
"There are all sorts of opportunities for things to happen
this year."
   Setting aside the tax increases, the similarities between
the Bush and Democratic plans are striking, and suggest
features of a possible compromise. Both sides are proposing,
among other things, a temporary investment incentive for
business, some restoration of deductions on rental losses for
the real-estate industry and reduced taxes on capital gains.
   The House Democrats' bill also would provide families tax
credits of as much as $400 in each of the next two years. At
the same time, it would raise to 35% from 31% the top tax
rate for individuals with taxable income of at least $85,000
a year and couples with at least $145,000. The bill also
would impose a 10% surtax on millionaires.
   Throughout yesterday's debate, Republicans aimed their
fire at the proposed tax increases. But other parts of the
package upset some Democrats, too, and made the measure a
tough sell for party leaders. Liberals complained that the
middle-class tax cut would be too meager. They also said the
business tax incentives would be too generous, especially the
proposal to index for inflation capital gains on assets
acquired after Feb. 1. Conservative Democrats, meanwhile,
groused that the proposed business breaks didn't go far
enough, and that the bill would add to the deficit in the
next three years. The higher taxes would begin covering the
bill's cost after three years.
   But in the end, most Democrats were united by a simple
pitch. "The leadership's line is, if we don't pass this there
will be political chaos, and the president will blame the
Democratic Congress," said Rep. Brian Donnelly (D., Mass.).
   The package was opposed by 46 Democrats, while all but one
Republican, Maine Rep. Olympia Snowe, voted against the
Democrats' plan. The Democratic defectors comprised a
cross-section of the party, from Northern liberals to
Southern and Western conservatives.
   The proposed tax increases posed a problem for the usually
loyal Democrats from New Jersey, where anti-tax sentiment
continues to boil because of state tax increases under
Democratic Gov. Jim Florio. Undecided to the end, six of the
state's eight Democrats opposed their party's package. Just
moments before the vote, New Jersey Rep. Robert Torricelli
gave a thumbs-down gesture to the bill's sponsor, House Ways
and Means Committee Chairman Dan Rostenkowski (D., Ill.), who
shook his head.
   More conservative Democrats might have allied with
Republicans in opposition but for Mr. Bush himself. Several
cited the partisan pugnacity of his January State of the
Union speech, when Mr. Bush set his March 20 deadline. "The
president, by picking a fight, made a mistake," said Rep.
Timothy Penny (D., Minn.). "He made this a partisan issue and
weakened his own position."
   Before approving the Democrats' plan, the House rejected
the administration's slimmer package, which incorporated
seven top-priority provisions from Mr. Bush's overall budget
request. The proposals included a reduction in the
capital-gains tax to 15.4%, accelerated depreciation this
year for purchases of business equipment, the real-estate
deductions and a $5,000 credit for first-time home buyers.
The president's proposal for a $500-a-child increase in the
personal exemption wasn't included.
   The Democrats' bill included a major tax change that had
administration support. It would establish a 14-year
depreciation write-off for purchased "intangible" assets such
as subscriber lists, insurance records, a company's
reputation and other assets known for tax-accounting purposes
as "good will."
   To satisfy various business interests, the Democrats made
government-granted broadcasting and cable licenses eligible
for the new tax write-off, and they permitted a shorter
write-off for most software purchases and movie rights. In
addition to 14-year depreciation for future purchases, a
17-year write-off period was added for intangible assets
purchased in the past. That relief would mean hundreds of
millions of dollars to some of the country's major
corporations that have been actively acquiring businesses in
recent years.
   Such Democratic-sponsored breaks for business went
unmentioned during the debate, which instead rang with
election-year class partisanship.
   Republicans repeatedly accused Democrats of soaking the
rich, and Democrats charged in turn that Republicans had
waged warfare on behalf of the wealthy for a decade. The
deputy GOP leader, Georgia Rep. Newt Gingrich, taunted
Democrats by quoting Paul Tsongas, a presidential candidate
who has accused fellow Democrats of pandering to voters by
promising a middle-class tax cut. House Majority Leader
Richard Gephardt (D., Mo.) countered by quoting Pat Buchanan,
Mr. Bush's GOP rival, who has blasted the president for
jettisoning his proposed middle-class tax break.
   From both sides came occasional suggestions of some future
compromise. But confrontation will come first. "We are not
going to stop because the president has an objection," House
Speaker Thomas Foley (D., Wash.) said.
   Mr. Gingrich predicted that after vetoing a Democratic tax
bill, "The president will go to the country. I think the
country will, in fact, bring enough pressure to bear, and I
think enough Democrats will split from their leadership and
we'll pass a tax bill. But I think we have to go through this
dance to get to that point."
   Separately, the House Budget Committee passed a Democratic
budget blueprint that cuts military spending about twice as
deeply as President Bush proposed and puts the savings into
domestic programs and deficit reduction. But the president is
expected to oppose the plan, which will limit its importance
in the legislative process.
   The $1.5 trillion spending plan for the fiscal year that
begins Oct. 1 sets military spending at $273.4 billion-$7.6
billion in spending authority less than the president sought
and $15 billion less than current projections. Democrats
would use most of the savings to boost domestic programs, and
the remainder to cut the budget deficit. As an alternative,
the Democrats also suggested a plan that would use all the
savings for deficit reduction. Either way, the deficit is
expected to hover next fiscal year around $330 billion.
   The full House is expected to vote on the budget plan next
week.