Heard on the Street:
   Some Biotech Firms Excel at State-of-the-Art Hype
   ----
   By Laurie P. Cohen
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
"There are some biotech companies that overuse their whole
public relations effort as a mechanism to get their stock
prices up," says Peter Drake, a biotech analyst with
Chicago-based Vector Securities.
   For instance, Isis Pharmaceuticals announced in a press
release last week that it "received approval" from the U.S.
Food and Drug Administration to begin "Phase I clinical
trials." The company's stock climbed to 13 5/8 from 12 3/4
that day.
   But entering Phase I trials "isn't an approval process at
all," says Sarah Gordon, a biotech analyst with New
York-based Amerindo Investment Advisors. Indeed, if the FDA
doesn't spurn a company's application within 30 days, any
biotech company can begin the tests. Few applications are
turned down.
   An Isis spokesman says that the matter boils down to "a
semantic debate." He adds that the company doesn't believe
its application was dealt with by the FDA "in a routine way"
because Isis got an FDA phone call clearing the trials after
only 21 days.
   Biotech companies aren't the only ones to tout themselves
in press releases, of course. But biotech stocks have been
the market's hottest performers until recently, with many
biotech stocks selling at lofty prices despite a lack of
earnings.
   The torrent of often-misleading press releases from
biotech companies is possible because of the FDA's approval
process, the most rigorous in the world. On average, it takes
12 years and $231 million to get one new medicine from the
laboratory to the pharmacy, according to a Tufts University
study. Yet the FDA will approve for sale only one in 4,000
compounds that are tested on people.
   The FDA adheres to a strict policy of confidentiality. The
agency won't ever publicly disclose the progress of its
review of a drug. Yet the FDA doesn't bar biotech companies
from saying whatever they wish during the review process.
   With more than 220 publicly traded biotech companies out
there, the competition to gain recognition and financing in
the stock market is fierce. It's easy to understand why, when
talking to analysts and investors, a company might want to
hype its drugs or its expectations for FDA approval. It's
just as easy to see why a company can get away with the hype.
   "Biotech companies in need of capital will put the best
foot forward, given any opportunity," says Jeff Casdin,
Oppenheimer's lead biotech analyst. "They will play up the
good news and omit the bad news. And if the company doesn't
say something they should, the FDA won't say it for them."
   Whether in press releases or at meetings with analysts and
investors, "there are a lot of instances where companies have
misrepresented the efficacy of their drugs" in FDA-sanctioned
clinical tests, says Michael Gordon, portfolio manager of the
$900 million Fidelity Select Biotechnology Fund.
   Xoma, a Berkeley, Calif., biotech company, faces several
investor lawsuits in federal court in San Francisco because
the company didn't issue a press release in April 1990. That
month, the company got a letter from the FDA telling Xoma
that the data submitted for its E5 drug for treating septic
shock syndrome "are not sufficient for approval of this
product."
   The FDA cited "the lack of convincing preclinical
protection studies in animals; and the very marginal, at
best, efficacy data in man." Says Lehman Brothers analyst
Teena Lerner,"It was a serious setback" for the company.
   Yet when Xoma reported its problems to the public in
August 1990 in its quarterly report, it downplayed the FDA
letter. Xoma simply said the FDA had asked for additional
information, "including more data from the clinical trials
previously conducted." The letter itself only came to light
in July 1991, thanks to a widely watched patent-infringement
trial involving Xoma and Centocor.
   Despite the letter, in a series of press releases, analyst
meetings and investor conferences, Xoma confidently pitched
its drug -- without referring to the FDA request. Xoma says
it hasn't done anything wrong and will defend against the
suits. "We feel strongly that we have made full disclosure of
what's gone on in press releases, regulatory filings and
public statements," a Xoma spokeswoman says.
   Oppenheimer's Mr. Casdin disagrees. "Xoma kept the public
in the dark for more than a year," he says.
   But even as Xoma has come under attack for allegedly
misleading investors, its chief competitor, Centocor, is also
in hot water with some investors. Last month, in a press
release, Centocor released routine results for its fourth
quarter. Buried deep down, in the sixth paragraph of that
release, was what appeared to investors to be terrible news.
   The FDA "raised additional issues" about Centocor's septic
shock drug, which Centocor believes "should be resolved
satisfactorily," the release read. If not, Centocor said in
the release, "this could have a material adverse effect" on
the concern.
   Centocor, which has issued 30 press releases in the last
year, has declined to elaborate on its announcement. But the
admission left investors hungering for additional
information. "Centocor issued a press release every time one
of their monoclonal antibodies belched," complains Richard A.
Bock, a veteran biotech stockbroker with Sutro  Co. "Now
that they have problems with the FDA, they've stopped
releasing anything at a time when everyone wants to know
something."
   A Centocor spokesman says: "Centocor puts out press
releases when appropriate." He adds, "If there's anyone out
there that believes antibodies belch, you might question
their scientific competence."
   When companies don't live up to the promises of earlier
press releases, they can always blame their delays on
FDA-related problems. The tactic is virtually foolproof
because the agency won't set investors straight.
   That's what Research Industries recently did. Last year,
the company attributed delays of an FDA review of its Herpid
antiviral drug to "the extraordinary AIDSrelated political
pressure" on the FDA. The company sought approval of the drug
in 1988.
   And last month, the company told investors that approval
for testing of another product, its "heparin removal device
system," would likely take longer than expected because of
"the recent environment on the device side of the FDA as a
result of breast and heart-valve implants."
   Some Research stockholders scratched their heads, noting
that especially in the most recent case, Research hasn't
submitted data to the FDA that would even allow it to begin
tests on people. Gary Crocker, the company's chairman, denies
blaming the FDA for delays. "I think we've noticed as a
company that the FDA in general is getting back to people
slower on documents that are submitted," he says.
   Bonnie Perkins, an analyst who follows the company for
William Blair  Co., says despite the delays, she remains
bullish on Research Industries. Her only criticism: "They do
put out too many press releases." There were 25 last year.
   Some companies seem to respond to declines in their share
prices by issuing more and more press releases.
Organogenesis, a Cambridge, Mass., company developing a
living-tissue equivalent, appears to be one of them. Between
Jan. 30 and Tuesday, Organogenesis issued eight different
releases -- almost as many as it issued in the entire
preceding year. The releases hailed everything from
groundbreaking for a new corporate headquarters to a research
paper at a conference in Maui, Hawaii.
   The barrage of releases began soon after Organogenesis's
stock rose to 25 7/8 in mid-January and then quickly fell
back. Yesterday, Organogenesis closed at 13 7/8. In one case,
the company publicized data it had presented at a medical
conference more than three weeks earlier.
   An Organogenesis spokeswoman won't say why the company
waited so long before issuing that release. But she says
Organogenesis's releases "don't have anything to do with the
stock price."