Technology:
   IBM's First True Notebook Computer
   To Be Launched, Industry Sources Say
   ----
   By Paul B. Carroll
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The executives said the IBM computer will use a version of
the Intel Corp. 386SX central processor that will be 25% to
33% slower than the versions available in some competitors'
notebooks. The executives said the computer will come with a
40-megabyte hard disk drive -- while competitors' products
typically include more storage capacity. The machine will
come with two megabytes of main memory and will weigh 6.2
pounds, a bit heavier than some notebooks but well within the
standard range. Although the list price apparently hasn't yet
been set, the executives said it will be around $2,500. That
means an actual retail price of perhaps as little as $1,800.
By contrast, a comparable machine from Toshiba Corp. is
advertised this week for $2,000, and a similar machine from
AST Research Inc. is advertised at $1,900.
   The issue of IBM's development of laptop computers
surfaced yesterday when IBM and Groupe Bull of France
announced a broad technology-sharing arrangement. The
agreement includes a provision for IBM to buy portable
computers from Bull's Zenith Data Systems unit for resale
under IBM's label. IBM may also get some development help
from Zenith, which has typically been out in front on laptop
technology but hasn't been able to muster much marketing
force.
   Although the IBM-Bull announcement was vague, the industry
executives said the Zenith part of the agreement didn't
constitute any sort of admission of defeat by IBM in the
laptop market. The executives said IBM would merely buy
Zenith products that will fill holes in its emerging product
line. They said, for instance, that IBM hasn't been
developing a laptop using the Intel 386SL chip, which is
proving to be popular largely because it can as much as
double the battery life of a laptop. Zenith has such a
laptop, so IBM might decide to resell the Zenith machine, the
executives said.
   They said IBM will continue with its own product
development and should introduce this year a battery-powered
laptop containing a color screen. Because color screens
typically require too much power for batteries to handle, the
IBM color machine could be a technological innovation,
depending on whether the company beats its competitors to the
market. The executives said IBM also plans to introduce this
year some notebooks and laptops that contain the 386SLC chip,
a version of the Intel 386SX chip that IBM has modified to
run almost twice as fast.
   One of those machines will need to be a breakthrough if
IBM is to finally become a presence in laptops. IBM lost a
lot of credibility early on, when its first laptops and
portables flopped. It finally produced a good portable, but
that was about the time the market for the heavy machines
leveled off and laptops, at 15 pounds or less, took over.
   In late 1990, IBM appeared to have a winner with a laptop
it was about to unveil. But it ran into last-minute delays
that pushed the product into March 1991. Then IBM overpriced
the product. While the list price started at $6,000, it has
fallen to $3,645 in just 10 months, and dealers say the
initial problems have hurt sales.
   IBM has apparently continued to face problems, because it
had initially talked about filling out its laptop product
line last fall, but those announcements have slipped into
this year.