THE 1993 BUDGET: Bush's Antidote to Recession
   ---
   Heads of Agencies
   Asked to Weed Out
   Unnecessary Rules
   ----
   By Bob Davis
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Agency rules should set "performance standards" instead of
"prescriptive command-and-control requirements," the
presidential memorandum said. That would let businesses meet
regulations "at the lowest possible cost," it said.
   The memorandum didn't contain any hit list of regulations
that the White House wants altered or scrapped. Instead, the
president asked each of the agencies to name a senior
official for "permanent regulatory oversight," and he
requested that agencies propose regulations to be altered.
Rules "imposing the largest unnecessary burden {should be}
the first to be revised or eliminated," the president said.
   Public Citizen, a Washington, D.C., consumer group, said
the presidential action could block rules that the
Occupational Safety and Health Administration was expected to
issue soon to limit worker exposure to cadmium, formaldehyde
and grain dust, among other substances. David Vladeck, a
senior attorney at the Ralph Nader-affiliated group,
threatened to sue if the rules are held up because of the
regulatory ban.
   Although the White House hasn't released a list of
regulations that could be affected, senior aides there have
said they are especially interested in easing rules regarding
telecommunications and the introduction of genetically
engineered plants and pesticides.
   In his memorandum, Mr. Bush said rules would be exempt
from the moratorium if they respond to health and safety
emergencies, affect the military, are required by statute or
are essential to a criminal investigation. In addition, the
president said rules could be issued if the agency involved
and the White House Council on Competitiveness determine they
would "foster economic growth."
   The council, headed by Vice President Dan Quayle, is
charged with overseeing the regulatory moratorium and review.