Politics  Policy -- Campaign '92:
   Bush Stresses
   Family Values
   As His Theme
   ---
   But New Rhetoric May Face
   A Formidable Obstacle
   In President's Policies
   ----
   By John Harwood
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The president's immediate aim, two days before the hotly
contested Georgia primary, was to blunt Mr. Buchanan's
charges that he has waffled on proposed federal tax breaks
for families and subsidized pornography through the National
Endowment for the Arts. Eyeing the general election, he hopes
to reinforce the "traditional values" advantage that GOP
candidates have enjoyed over Democrats for a generation.
   But the incumbent's pro-family rhetoric faces a formidable
obstacle: his record. Statistics indicate that the well-being
of American families has declined on his watch. After growing
for most of Ronald Reagan's presidency, median family income
shrunk during the first two years of the Bush administration.
   The proportion of families headed by a single parent,
continuing a long-term rise, has reached one in four. Home
ownership among two-parent and mother-child families is down,
while the proportion of adult children living with their
parents is up. And Americans are increasingly "stressed out
and heavily taxed by the joint demands of work and family
life," according to a new study by Harvard and Case Western
researchers.
   To be sure, families are buffeted by long-run trends that
would adversely affect any president. Yet even some of Mr.
Bush's allies say his efforts to ease family pressures have
fallen short. Republican Sen. Dan Coats of Indiana says the
administration has "a ways to go" in translating its concern
into action.
   Liberals such as Rep. Patricia Schroeder of Colorado
complain that Mr. Bush vetoed family-leave legislation.
Conservatives such as Gary Bauer, who heads the Family
Research Council, say Mr. Bush hasn't taken bold enough
stands in the "cultural civil war" against unwholesome TV
programming and other threats to children. David Blankenhorn,
who runs the New York-based Institute for American Values,
asserts that Mr. Bush lacks "a coherent policy agenda to
promote family well-being," saying he could start by
promoting laws that make divorce tougher to obtain.
   On one policy step that nearly all sides favor --
increasing families' take-home pay -- Mr. Bush's centerpiece
proposal is a $500 per-child increase in the personal income
tax exemption that isn't even part of the economic "action
plan" he has demanded Congress pass by March 20. "It's an
insult to families," complains Robert Rector of the
conservative Heritage Foundation, which has proposed a larger
tax break. And Mr. Bush's proposed exemption increase would
do nothing for families too poor to pay income taxes.
   When Mr. Bush speaks of family troubles, he taps a deep
vein of public discontent. "This election is about the stress
that middle-class families are now experiencing," says
William Galston, a University of Maryland political
scientist. Bush campaign chairman Robert Teeter adds that
Americans increasingly fear "the social fabric is coming
apart." More than just financial strains, the pressures
extend from lack of so-called quality time to worries about
drugs, violent crime and moral decay.
   Ever since social upheaval split the Democratic party in
the 1960s, the GOP has cast itself as a defender of family
values against Democrats who would undermine them by
supporting such causes as gay rights and abortion rights. Mr.
Bush's own handsome family and Barbara Bush's popularity lend
credibility to his rhetoric, providing positive images that
may offset negative social trends. On any issue, GOP pollster
Richard Wirthlin has observed, "it's the emotion that drives
{voter} behavior."
   Not all the emotions are kinder and gentler. When Mr. Bush
attacked the "dismal welfare system" as anti-family in his
State of the Union address, critics saw an attempt to exploit
racial divisions. At a time when the president espouses tax
breaks for middle-class families with kids, his calls for
"personal responsibility" among welfare clients "begins to
smack of the Willie Horton overtones," says Isabel Sawhill of
the Urban Institute.
   The president's sudden attention to welfare is especially
striking, charges Sen. Daniel Moynihan (D., N.Y.), since the
administration hasn't offered "a legislative proposal of any
kind" during Mr. Bush's term. Meanwhile, the bipartisan 1988
welfare overhaul signed into law by President Reagan -- which
included measures to encourage family stability and provide
job training -- isn't being fully implemented because many
recession-squeezed state governments are broke.
   Bush-Quayle campaign spokeswoman Torie Clarke maintains
that the president has done more to strengthen families "than
we've seen in decades." In 1990, Mr. Bush signed a five-year,
$18 billion increase in the Earned Income Tax Credit for
working families with children, and funding increases have
boosted enrollment by 73% in Head Start for poor children.
Department of Health and Human Services spokeswoman Alixe
Glen dismissed as "absurd" the charge that Mr. Bush is
playing racial politics with welfare.
   Mr. Bush's saving grace could be the weakness of the
opposition. The three leading Democratic candidates are all
vulnerable to GOP broadsides on values: Arkansas Gov. Bill
Clinton has struggled with allegations of infidelity,
Nebraska Sen. Robert Kerrey is divorced and single, and
former Massachusetts Sen. Paul Tsongas has actively promoted
gay rights.
   The recession creates "a much tougher environment to make
that {family-values} message sell," says Republican pollster
Vince Breglio. "The question is, who is the opponent?"