Winter Olympics 1992:
   Faster. Higher. Stronger. But With a Bit Less Risk
   ----
   By John J. Fialka
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Some coaches say the liability crisis is actively damaging
U.S. athletic competitiveness. Product liability lawsuits
have closed all but one major gymnastics equipment maker in
the U.S., for instance, driving prices way up. Swimming-pool
managers across the country have removed thousands of diving
boards, even though competitive diving hasn't yet had a
substantial number of serious accident claims.
   Coaches in a variety of sports say the situation actually
improves the performance of their teams, because the emphasis
on safety is likely to keep top athletes competitive longer.
For many more coaches, the subject is too sensitive to
discuss at all.
   Young athletes reaching the Olympic level in most sports
have been warned and lectured repeatedly on the dangers they
face. Their coaches now keep records to prove it, says Ronald
L. Baron, editor of a Dallas consulting firm that publishes a
magazine on sports liability titled "From the Gym to the
Jury." As he explains it, the coaches' records of their
warnings to their charges will form the first line of defense
in court should an injured athlete or his parents sue. "You
have to document, document, document," Mr. Baron says. "Can
you imagine Vince Lombardi saying, `Look, so-and-so, you can
be catastrophically injured out there'?"
   The fear of lawsuits has produced undeniable gains in
safety. When insurance risk managers began to study serious
ice hockey injuries, for instance, they discovered that one
of the prime culprits was, of all things, a new safety
helmet.
   A study of quadriplegic former hockey players disclosed
that players felt so secure in the helmets that they tended,
wittingly or not, to use their heads to absorb some of the
shock when they were slammed into the boards. Kenneth S.
Clarke, a sports risk specialist and senior vice president
for KK Insurance Group, discovered that often when players
were checked from behind, "they tucked their heads down and
let their helmet take part of the hit." Unfortunately, this
transferred the shock to the player's spine, which sometimes
snapped as a result.
   Mr. Clarke's research into hockey quadriplegics changed
the rules of the game. Once, a check from behind might have
drawn a penalty of only a few minutes. Now it is has been
elevated to a "misconduct penalty" that could get a player
thrown out of a game. Players today are instructed to keep
their heads up when hitting the boards, and they are shown
films that illustrate what happens when a human spine is hit
and separates.
   The upshot of such changes is that liability insurance
salesmen are back out talking to coaches. Jerry Lace,
executive director of U.S. Cycling, recalls that in 1985,
sports like his couldn't get coverage and had to turn to
Panol Inc., an insurance company formed by the U.S. Olympic
Committee to fill the void. When Panol demonstrated that it
could make a profit underwriting sports events, the situation
changed. "Last year we had four companies all giving us
bids," says Mr. Lace. "God bless Panol."
   How does Panol do it? One of its first moves was to hire
KK, a Fort Wayne, Ind., sports insurance specialist, to
administer its insurance coverage and to keep careful
records, allowing researchers to find and correct causes of
major sports injuries. Panol's research, and changes in
training, made mainstream insurers more confident.
   Spending more money and time on safety may diminish the
number of trained athletes in certain sports, but it may also
keep the most skilled performers active longer. Karl
Anderson, chief financial officer of the U.S. ski team, says
that his risk-management program has been funded with money
that would have been used to expand his program. "Instead of
adding three more kids or adding one more (training) trip,
you're going to keep the good skiers you have on the snow
more."
   After a rash of accidents hit top U.S. women skiers last
year, the team hired physiotherapists who have the power to
order skiers off the snow if an injury hasn't properly
healed.
   Courses are also being made safer. "Some of the hairier
parts are being taken out," Mr. Anderson says. Safety nets
have been put up to keep skiers from hitting trees. Again,
however, some of the new safety devices generate risks of
their own. Last year in Europe, Mr. Anderson recalls, a skier
shooting downhill caught a ski tip in a net and "basically
got torn in half."