What Really Turned People Off
   Was the Valet Grocery-Cart Races
   ----
   By Rhonda L. Rundle
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
"For every person who liked it, there were five or six who
told us it irritated them," says Vickie Sanders, a Vons Cos.
spokeswoman.
   That's saying something in this car-mad corner of the
country, where perky red-jacketed valets dash around at just
about every kind of establishment, from health clubs to
hospitals. The supermarket valets, however, have run afoul of
customer curmudgeonliness, tinged with some reverse snobbery.
   The idea was dreamed up by store manager Dave Turner not
as a luxury, but as a service for the elderly and handicapped
that might have the added benefit of easing his cramped lot's
parking problems. In a Los Angeles Times interview, he
expressed dismay early on that the service was being usurped
by "status symbol types" in pricey foreign cars and Jeep
Cherokees. Media inquiries to Mr. Turner have since been
referred to the corporate office in Arcadia, Calif.
   Then the shopper gripes began.
   Some people groused that retrieving cars through the
service was just too slow. Valets routinely got stuck in
parking-lot traffic as arugula and shiitake mushrooms wilted
in the carts of steaming customers lined up at the store's
entrance.
   Then there was the matter of money. Vons, which charges $1
for the service, began giving a "customer appreciation
dollar" -- good toward merchandise in the store -- to placate
folks who complained they couldn't see the sign informing
them of the fee.
   Even as a freebie, though, the service just didn't sit
right in La Jolla -- attracting fewer than two dozen cars a
day at the height of the holiday season. By last week, the
business had dwindled to "two to four cars a day," says Leo
McDevitt, a car jockey there.
   Vons shopper Laurie Martin, a 27-year-old longtime La
Jolla resident, thinks she knows why. "I would be embarrassed
if anyone saw me valet parking," she says. "The money down
here . . . isn't flashy young money like you get in
Hollywood."