Technology:
   Siemens Unit Introduces Low-End PC;
   Company Plans to Try Direct Mail Sales
   ----
   By Laurence Hooper
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Also at CeBIT, SNI refreshed its family of big mainframe
computers with 13 new models and introduced a new
notebook-size PC that can also be used as a desktop system by
adding a "docking station."
   SNI's new low-cost PCs echo efforts by a number of major
computer companies to recapture sales they have lost to local
and Asian competitors who sell cheap, functional PC "clones."
This trend has been speeded by the view that PCs are becoming
commodity products. International Business Machines Corp.,
Compaq Computer Corp. and Olivetti  Co. are among the
companies planning new moves in the low-price arena in coming
months.
   The SNI machine is based on a relatively slow version of
Intel Corp.'s most popular microprocessor "brain" and will be
offered at list prices as low as 2,350 marks ($1,400),
depending on its configuration. SNI said other Economy Line
PCs will appear later this year.
   SNI's decision to offer direct-mail sales, meanwhile,
mimics one of the most-successful tactics of clone makers.
IBM, Compaq, Olivetti and other PC makers are believed to be
preparing for direct sales. Digital Equipment Corp. has made
direct-selling the cornerstone of its latest push into PCs.
   SNI's new mainframe computers refresh its 7500 family,
including six new machines designed to boost performance at
the top end of its product line. SNI also said it will sell
two new mainframes that are particularly well-suited for
scientific and engineering applications.
   The new SNI notebook PC is based on an Intel chip designed
especially for such machines and includes a hard-disk drive,
a floppy-disk drive and a small "trackball" pointing device
just above the keyboard -- a feature appearing in many new
notebook PCs at CeBIT. It weighs 5.7 pounds and is priced at
8,690 marks.
   Separately, Dr. Wiedig said he remains committed to using
an advanced chip designed by MIPS Computer Systems Inc. in
future SNI computers based on a new technology known as
reduced-instruction-set computing, or RISC. RISC computers
are seen as the next generation of computing, and several
groups of companies are vying to establish their RISC-chip
designs as a standard.
   Dr. Wiedig said he is confident that the MIPS design is a
viable contender. But he didn't rule out the possibility of
offering computers based on other RISC chips.
   Dr. Wiedig also addressed concern that the German
information-technology market -- SNI's mainstay -- might be
stalling along with the German economy. "We will not have a
breakdown in Germany," he said flatly, predicting that demand
for technology in former East Germany would remain robust,
while a U.S. recovery would help re-ignite European markets.