House Reduces Bush's Defense Budget
   By $15 Billion Despite Layoff Worries
   ----
   By Andy Pasztor
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
By a 215-201 vote, lawmakers approved a $1.5 trillion
resolution for the entire federal budget in the fiscal year
that begins Oct. 1. Democratic backers of the measure, which
envisions a deficit of more than $324 billion, intend to
shrink military spending and pump the money into education,
job training and other non-military accounts. But that will
require approval from the House in a separate vote next week.
The House also has a fallback position that is bound to be
more acceptable to Mr. Bush, who has threatened to veto any
bill that doesn't earmark all defense savings to be used to
reduce the deficit.
   But even as Democrats argued for heftier defense cuts,
many of their comments nevertheless reflected ambivalence
about forcing potentially tens of thousands of additional
soldiers and defense industry workers on the unemployment
rolls in an election year. Wisconsin Rep. Les Aspin, for
example, who drafted the Pentagon cutback package as chairman
of the Armed Services Committee, tried to reassure lawmakers
that a large percentage of the savings will come from
reducing overseas military spending and suspending spare
parts purchases -- two relatively painless ways to shrink
Pentagon budgets.
   Rep. John Murtha (D., Pa.), chairman of a defense
appropriations subcommittee, put it more bluntly: "If this
were the final budget, I wouldn't vote for it either." But
because the Senate is bound to approve a larger defense
budget, he said, "I know it will be rectified" and "we will
have more money" when the final version goes to the White
House.
   The resolution passed yesterday caps defense outlays at
$287.2 billion, or about $5 billion less than projected in
Mr. Bush's blueprint for fiscal 1993. The measure also calls
for a $7.1 billion deeper cut in defense budget authority
than the White House requested.
   Over the next six years, the House plan calls for more
than $90 billion in Pentagon spending cuts, compared with $44
billion included in Mr. Bush's spending plan.
   The House actually approved two budget options for fiscal
1993, though both packages include identical defense spending
numbers. One package plows two-thirds of the defense savings
into domestic programs, including road-building, and helping
soldiers and defense workers find civilian jobs. The second
option -- which passed by a broader 224-191 margin and
currently seems the most likely to reach the president's desk
-- retains the walls prohibiting transfers between the
defense and the domestic parts of the budget. Under this
option, savings would go to deficit reduction.
   The House won't take a binding vote until next week on
whether to break down those walls, and it isn't clear how
much support the idea has in the Senate.
   The vote capped a day of rambling debate that focused less
on specific military priorities than on ways to make American
companies more competitive and to improve the quality of life
for American families. Unless defense dollars are shifted to
domestic programs, Rep. Les AuCoin (D., Ore.) predicted the
U.S. will become "a muscle-bound, blind giant" unable to
retain foreign markets.
   Under the option preferred by many Democratic leaders,
total spending on education, job training and health would
climb nearly $2.5 billion higher than Mr. Bush's 1993
request, while programs serving veterans would get an
additional $1.2 billion. But House Republican Leader Robert
Michel of Illinois, asserting that Mr. Bush will vigorously
oppose such increases, dismissed the dual resolutions as
showing "Democrats in the House cannot really make tough
choices."
   The debate also was tempered by Defense Secretary Dick
Cheney's warnings -- vehemently denied by the bill's
backersthat the short-term savings required by the House
could force as many as 300,000 additional men and women out
of uniform over the next two years.