Commodities:
   Oil Futures Prices Weaken in a Late Sell-Off
   Triggered by Jitters About U.N.-Iraq Meeting
   ----
   By Allanna Sullivan
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Also lending a bearish tone to the market was a report
released yesterday by the American Petroleum Institute after
the market closed, showing that inventories for crude and
petroleum products climbed last week.
   Distillate, or heating oil stocks, unexpectedly rose by
481,000 barrels to 143.4 million barrels. The increase
buttresses the belief that winter demand won't be sufficient
to sop up the large supplies of home heating fuel. Gasoline
inventories rose by more than five million barrels while
crude stocks increased more than three million.
   Iraqi and U.N. officials are expected to meet today and
tomorrow in Vienna to discuss terms of restrictions on the
crude oil sale. Iraq thus far has rejected the U.N. plan,
considering too onerous the terms that bar its government's
access to the proceeds of the sale.
   But traders began to sell oil contracts when rumors
circulated that the U.N.'s terms might be relaxed in an
effort to get Iraq's acceptance. The plan aims to provide
food and medical assistance to Iraq's people, who have been
suffering as a result of sanctions imposed during the Persian
Gulf crisis. There was also speculation that the White House
might support an easing of terms. But late in the day, a
White House official denied that there was any change in the
U.S. stance.
   Because the sell-off was so sudden and sharp, there is
some speculation that prices could recover somewhat today.
Some traders, figuring the eventual acceptance of a plan by
Iraq was already factored into the market, didn't anticipate
such a quick decline.
   Crude oil prices had been trading higher through much of
yesterday's trading session based on news that two oil fields
in the North Sea had been shut down because of damage to
safety equipment. But pricing action today will likely depend
upon how market participants digest bearish API statistics
and any news coming out of the U.N.-Iraq meeting in Vienna.
   In other commodity markets yesterday:
                                                                                                       

   COTTON: Prices rallied on speculation that the
Agricultural Department's crop production report, to be
released Friday, will further lower the estimate for the 1991
Texas crop. The March contract ended at 60.43 cents a pound,
up 0.33 cent. Bernard Savaiko, senior futures analyst at
PaineWebber in New York, noted there was some buying by
cotton-trade companies, possibly against foreign business
they may have recently booked. He said the pummeling the
dollar has been taking over the past couple of weeks has made
U.S. cotton look attractive to many overseas buyers. Monday's
close above 60 cents set a constructive tone for Tuesday's
price action; that tone was reinforced Tuesday when the March
contract opened at 60.02 and didn't drop below the 60 cent
level. Mr. Savaiko said he sees resistance at the 62-cent
level and support for the contract at 58 cents. "A lot of
negatives about cotton are discounted by the current price,
but any sign of further weakening in retail sales could knock
prices down some more," he said.
                                                                                                       

   LIVESTOCK AND MEATS: Strong prices on the cash market sent
cattle futures prices surging higher. Prices were firm to
higher at the Texas-Oklahoma and western Kansas terminal
markets. This, coupled with trade expectations of better
wholesale demand for beef next month, pushed the price of the
February live cattle contract up 1.47 cents, just shy of the
1.5-cent daily limit, to 73.75 cents a pound. The contract
got additional support from a winter storm brewing in the
Plains states, which would temporarily inhibit cattle growth
if it is severe.
                                                                                                       

   ORANGE JUICE: Prices continued declining as freezing
weather appears unlikely for the next week or so. The March
contract opened at $1.5325 a pound, compared with Monday's
close of $1.5435. The contract ended at $1.5160, only 0.60
cent off the day's low. Bernard Savaiko of PaineWebber said
the market's next area of support is at $1.50. He noted that
so far retailers have chosen not to pass along the higher
wholesale prices that resulted from the Agricultural
Department's bullish October crop report. "If they do try to
pass along even the current prices, which are already 25
cents below the peak set just after the report came out, I
would expect considerable consumer resistance to them," Mr.
Savaiko said. "I would then look for another 10 cent or 15
cent sell-off." Michael Palmerino, a meteorologist at Weather
Services Corp. in Bedford, Mass., said he sees no sign of
extreme cold reaching Florida in the next week even though he
expects colder air in the Midwest and Northeast. Though most
traders consider Jan. 15 to be the end of the major freeze
season in Florida, Mr. Palmerino said that assumption isn't
valid. "In both January 1985 and January 1986 there were
Florida freezes that affected the citrus crop, and in both
cases the freezes began after the 20th of the month," he
said. "Florida weather-watchers should also keep in mind that
the worst freeze on record occurred in the first 10 days of
February, in 1899, when the temperatures dropped below zero
in Tallahassee."