NatWest Says
   U.S. Unit Had
   A Loss for 1991
   ---
   Parent Names Replacement
   For Finance Chief; TSB
   Also Reports a Deficit
   ----
   A Wall Street Journal News Roundup
Natwest also said its U.S. subsidiary, National
Westminster Bancorp Inc., sustained a $371.5 million net loss
in 1991, the third consecutive full-year loss for the U.S.
operation. The New York-based unit underwent substantial
management and structural changes during the year because of
mounting concerns about its profitability. The loss widened
from the 1990 deficit of $352.4 million.
   Mr. Burns, in turn, left NatWest after 40 years there to
become finance director of TSB Group PLC, another U.K. bank.
The 56-year-old Mr. Burns succeeds Dolf Mootham, who is
retiring. TSB Group, meanwhile, posted a loss of #47 million
($82.3 million) for its year ended Oct. 31, reflecting a #654
million charge for bad debt, vs. year-ago profit of #312
million.
   At NatWest Bancorp, officials had warned of its continuing
losses. But they also had said when the unit's third-quarter
earnings were released in October that there were clear signs
of improvement in loan performance, a key factor affecting
the subsidiary's profits. In the 1991 fourth quarter, Natwest
Bancorp's losses totaled $29.8 million, sharply narrower than
the year-earlier $228.8 million loss.
   John Tugwell, chairman and chief executive of NatWest
Bancorp, who moved to the unit in April to stem its losses,
said that during the fourth quarter the unit "achieved a
material reduction in non-performing loans, lower charge-offs
and flat expenses" from third-quarter levels.
   Mr. Tugwell said there is "continuing uncertainty with
respect to economic conditions" in the bank's core New York
and New Jersey markets. But he repeated comments made in
October that he "fully expects Bancorp's momentum of late
1991 to carry forward." Loan losses for the year widened to
$689.5 million, or 4.9% of total loans outstanding at Dec.
31, from $529.1 million, or 3.3% of loans outstanding a year
earlier. Loans on non-accrual status totaled $1.15 billion at
year end.
   The subsidiary said non-accrual loans amounted to 8.2% of
total loans at year end vs. 6% a year earlier.
   Analysts in the U.K. have raised questions about NatWest
Bancorp's level of non-performing loans as a percentage of
total lending. They noted that the ratios have been among the
highest for comparable banks in the New York metropolitan
area.
   National Westminster Bank, the U.S. subsidiary's parent,
is slated to post its 1991 results next month. Current
forecasts suggest the parent bank will post pretax profit of
around #79 million for 1991, down sharply from #504 million
in 1990. Bad-debt charges, reaching upwards of #1.9 billion
according to some analysts' estimates, are cited as the main
factor affecting the parent bank's results.
   Meanwhile, for TSB, the poor results were expected by
stock-market analysts, some of whom forecast a loss as deep
as #70 million. Most of the bad-loan charges were taken by
TSB's Hill Samuel merchant bank, which wrote down #432
million from its loan portfolio. The bulk of the bad debts
were taken out by U.K. companies, which have since been
weakened by the recession. Most of the rest of the provision
was for the TSB Retail Banking arm.
   TSB Chairman Nicholas Goodison said both sides of the
business were hurt by the hobbled U.K. property market. He
offered no optimism for improvement but insisted TSB is
strongly positioned for the time when a recovery arrives.