Tax Report:
   A Special Summary and Forecast
   Of Federal and State Tax
   Developments
   ----
   By Scott R. Schmedel
Now Judge Jacobs says Congress clearly meant to include
options in research costs. Further, he says, the discounts
count even if the options were granted before the credit was
enacted and even if they weren't exercised in the years when
the workers did the research. "The court rejected each of the
IRS's arguments," says Apple's tax director, Eric Ryan.
   Pending tax bills would extend the research credit, which
expires June 30.
                                                                                                       

   A SHOWDOWN ENDS in a standoff, as art experts try to
authenticate a Russell.
   In 1969, George O. and Emelia A. Doherty of Missoula,
Mont., paid $10,000 for a painting, Attacking Stagecoach,
attributed to the great Montana artist Charles M. Russell. In
1982-83, they gave the oil to the Russell Museum in Great
Falls -- and wound up in the Tax Court. They claimed a
charitable deduction of $200,000, but the IRS termed the work
a forgery valued at no more than $100. Facing off in court
were two of the foremost experts on Russell.
   Backing a $200,000 valuation, Ray W. Steele, the museum's
retired director, said the work is hasty, rough and unlike
other Russells, but not a forgery. Yet Ginger K. Renner, an
archivist, said the crude work couldn't possibly be
authentic. Faced with this dispute, Judge Parr refused to
rule on authenticity. But in view of the dispute and the poor
quality, she valued the work at $30,000, a price that one of
Russell's worst paintings might have brought.
                                                                                                       

   PAYROLL-TAX DEPOSITS could become simpler for 5.1 million
employers.
   Businesses forward $850 billion a year in withheld income
and other taxes to the IRS, using checks and 80 million paper
deposit coupons. It's a costly system, plagued with errors,
delays and penalties. But next month in Georgia, South
Carolina and Florida, the IRS plans to begin tests in which
businesses will volunteer to make deposits electronically by
phone. Many states build interestbearing bank balances faster
by requiring electronic tax transfers, which also are more
accurate and efficient.
   The IRS has more ideas to ease payrolltax burdens.
Employers, banks and others file a billion W-2 wage and Form
1099 payment reports a year; 50 million have faulty ID
numbers for recipients. This year, the IRS plans to start a
service allowing filers to phone its computer center to
verify the ID numbers. Another test, planned for some states
in 1993, will allow employers to send W-2 data electronically
to a single national center for redistribution to the IRS,
Social Security and the states.
   The IRS supports several measures in the pending tax bills
to simplify the rules for payroll-tax deposits.
                                                                                                       

   NEW BUSINESSES often fall behind in payroll-tax deposits,
the IRS says. To spur voluntary compliance, its St. Louis
office offers workshops to new or small delinquent employers
that have been penalized. If an employer attends, the IRS
abates penalties for the three prior quarters.
                                                                                                       

   LET STOOLIES STEW, the Senate Finance tax bill says. The
bill would make it a crime for federal agents to offer
forgiveness of taxes to induce lawyers, CPAs or practitioners
known as enrolled agents to inform on their clients.
                                                                                                       

   VENGEFUL PROTESTERS tried to harass IRS agents and others
a few years ago by falsely reporting huge income payments to
the targets. Congress's tax bills would let victims of such
reports bring civil damage suits against their tormentors.
                                                                                                       

   MIXED-UP MATCHING of third-party reports is challenged by
the tax bills.
   The IRS relies on computerized matching of these reports
with returns to spot discrepancies on the returns. But last
June, appeals judges awarded a victory to Ramon Portillo of
El Paso, Texas, who disputed a Form 1099 income report that
the payer didn't substantiate. Mismatches may justify
tax-deficiency notices, the court said, but a mismatch by
itself doesn't carry the usual presumption of correctness
that imposes the burden of proof entirely on taxpayers.
That's a ruling the IRS doesn't like.
   Now Congress is drawing on the ruling to advance
taxpayers' rights -- yet its bills differ significantly. The
Senate Finance bill would direct the IRS to present
"reasonable" additional evidence in court if a taxpayer made
a reasonable challenge to a third-party report. The House
bill would require the IRS to take "reasonable steps" to
verify a disputed report -- but adds that failure to do so
wouldn't nullify the deficiency notice. The latter part of
the House provision angers Rep. Schulze (R., Pa.).
   The effect of the conditioned provision would be to
reverse the victory that Portillo had in court, Schulze
contends.
                                                                                                       

   BRIEFS: The Senate Finance bill would extend through Sept.
30, 1998, an expiring law that lets the IRS disclose tax data
to the Veterans Affairs Department to help it determine
benefits. . . . South Dakota legislators passed a law
classifying ostriches, emus and rheas as poultry; that would
establish a sanctuary from the state sales tax for
flightless-bird ranchers.