The Protectionists Behind Buchanan
   ----
   By John H. Fund
Mr. Buchanan's protectionist brain trust is the U.S.
Business and Industrial Council, a group of small and
mediumsized industrial firms founded in the 1930s to battle
the New Deal. Its chairman, John P. Cregan, uses
quasi-military language to champion a "national economic
security program" that treats "the competition with our
trading rivals almost as seriously as we addressed the
politico-military competition with the Soviets." We have met
the new enemy, and they're our old allies.
   Mr. Cregan's most important backer is Roger Milliken,
chairman of Milliken  Co., a $3 billion a year textile giant
based in Spartanburg, S.C. Mr. Milliken is less interested in
the theory behind economic nationalism than in passing a bill
to limit the growth of clothing and textile imports to 1% a
year. Congress approved such a bill in 1985 and 1988, but it
was vetoed both times by President Reagan. In 1990 it passed
again, and was vetoed by President Bush.
   Mr. Milliken, who didn't respond to a request for an
interview, has often served as a king-maker in politics by
providing support to candidates at key points in their
campaigns. "Richard Nixon would not have been President and
Ronald Reagan would not have been President were it not for
Roger Milliken," former South Carolina Governor Jim Edwards
told Forbes magazine. Mr. Milliken played a key role in
securing the GOP nomination for Barry Goldwater in 1964, and
has been a major backer of Senator Strom Thurmond and House
Minority Whip Newt Gingrich. Both men have been vocal
advocates for textile import limits.
   For many years, Mr. Milliken prided himself on his
advocacy of free-market economics. His managers were required
to attend a "Freedom School" taught by libertarian writer
Robert LeFevre. Then in the 1970s, the pressure of foreign
imports convinced Mr. Milliken to adjust his views. "The days
of free capitalism are gone," he said sadly. "A man must fit
into the age in which he lives." Mr. Milliken adjusted
spectacularly for a while. Secretary of Commerce Fred Dent, a
Milliken friend, pushed through the Multifiber Agreement of
1974 that sharply limited apparel imports.
   But even that protection was unable to hold off a tide of
cheap, high-quality textile imports in the early 1980s. Mr.
Milliken had to close seven of his 62 plants, and he began
seeking another protection fix. Between 1976 and 1987, he and
his family gave $546,000 to political candidates. An original
backer of William F. Buckley's National Review magazine, he
prevailed upon Mr. Buckley to hand-deliver a letter asking
for import protection to President Reagan at National
Review's 30th Anniversary dinner in 1985. Mr. Milliken was
bitterly disappointed when Mr. Reagan vetoed the bill.
   Still, Mr. Milliken hasn't abandoned his free-trade views
completely. Walter Williams, a George Mason University
economist, recalls being given a tour of a Milliken mill
after giving a speech to its managers. "They told me about
their `Made in the USA' ad campaign," he says. "I asked why
some of their machines came from Japan. I was told that, of
course, they bought their machines where they got the best
deal. They didn't think that principle applied to textiles."
Indeed, Mr. Milliken has quietly lobbied for a reduction in
tariffs on imported high-speed textile machinery that would
make his mills more competitive.
   In 1987, Mr. Milliken endorsed former Sen. Paul Laxalt, an
old Reagan pal, for president, largely because he had voted
for textile import quotas. But Mr. Laxalt dropped out of the
race, and Mr. Milliken withdrew from politics. Frustrated at
what he viewed as George Bush's mindless acceptance of free
trade, he sat out the 1988 GOP convention. He also withdrew
his support from the Heritage Foundation after it refused to
modify its free-trade views.
   Now Mr. Milliken has a new political horse to ride. Last
year, he arranged for Mr. Buchanan to tour some of his
textile mills and applied a full-court press. "Milliken
touched every chord in Buchanan's heart," recalls one
Milliken employee. "Many of the employees are Scotch-Irish,
and so is Buchanan. He was visibly affected when they told
him they would lose their jobs unless imports were stopped."
   Mr. Buchanan still agrees with many of the free-trade
arguments he used to make in the Nixon and Reagan
administrations. Some of his advisers have told him that
existing import restrictions on textiles cost an average
American family of four over $425 a year, and he doesn't
argue with them. "Undeniably, if one believes in maximum
efficiency there is no persuasive argument against free
trade. But to me there are values higher than efficiency," he
told Liberty magazine.
   Indeed, that sums up the core of Mr. Buchanan's brand of
conservatism. He has said that "men of the right think first
with their heart when forming their beliefs." On trade, he
has been quoted as saying that "the arguments of the head
will lose to the arguments of the heart. . . . Let's take
care of our own on the grounds we are preserving things that
are more important than consumer choice." Richard Rahn, the
former U.S. Chamber of Commerce economist whom Mr. Buchanan
has said he admires greatly, says that "Pat should know the
costs of protectionism in higher prices and lost output are
often hard to see, but they lead to more human suffering than
free trade's dislocations ever could."
   Mr. Milliken has encouraged Mr. Cregan's group to promote
Mr. Buchanan's "America First" themes, and last week he
hosted an event for Mr. Buchanan in South Carolina. At a
November meeting at Mr. Buchanan's house, Milliken adviser
Jock Nash urged the candidate to bar free trade advocates
from his staff, a move rejected by Mr. Buchanan as too
exclusionary.
   "If Milliken's people had their way, Pat would be their
wholly owned subsidiary," says Tony Fabrizio, a top Buchanan
advisor until he left in December over differences in
strategy. "Pat won't let that happen, but he still serves
Milliken's purposes very well by putting the trade debate
back on the table among Republicans."
   The New Hampshire primaries showed that protectionism
flopped as an issue, but should it be perceived as catching
on in textile-oriented Southern states, Mr. Milliken stands
to gain a lot. In Georgia last week, Mr. Bush promised to
veto any protectionist bills, but no one doubts a Buchanan
surge could spook White House aides into urging a hold on the
Mexico Free Trade Agreement or a compromise on textile
imports.
   David Keene, chairman of the American Conservative Union,
says Mr. Milliken will be pleased even if all he does is make
protectionism respectable on the right. "There are about 20
GOP Congressmen who vote free trade because they've been told
protectionism is nuts," says Mr. Keene, who is also a
consultant to clothing retailers. "If Buchanan makes a debate
on the issue respectable, a switch of less than a dozen GOP
members gets you a veto override of the textile quota bill."
Because the current bill is identical to previous versions it
can be brought to a vote quickly anytime this spring.
   So far many of those cheering Mr. Buchanan on remain
skeptical about his economic nationalism. "I wish Pat would
emphasize the regulatory and tax burdens that make it hard
for U.S. firms to compete," says columnist M. Stanton Evans.
"I hear some people who like Pat saying his belief in the
free market shouldn't stop at the U.S. border," says Jameson
Campaigne, an Illinois publisher. A survey of 250 activists
at last month's Conservative Political Action Conference
found that just over a third of those surveyed agreed with
Mr. Buchanan's views on trade.
   "Roger Milliken is no trade hawk," says Democratic Rep.
Sam Gibbons, who has opposed textile imports for years as
chairman of a House trade subcommittee. "He's a protectionist
hog, H-O-G]" If Mr. Buchanan lies down with such hogs he
shouldn't be surprised that some conservatives -- both now
and in 1996 -- will keep their distance from him after his
romp in the mud of flat-earth economics.
   Many conservatives say they are friendly to Mr. Buchanan
because a strong showing by him might force the Bush
administration to adopt more principled positions. But they
should also realize that Mr. Buchanan's "America First" trade
positions ultimately place the interests of American
consumers dead last. His trade positions carry the risk of
panicking politicians into firing the first shots in a global
trade war that may be difficult to stop.
   (See related letter: "Letters to the Editor: The Warp and
Woof of Textile Protection" -- WSJ March 9, 1992)
   ---
   Mr. Fund is a Journal editorial writer.