Marketing  Media -- Advertising:
   Miller Lite's `It's It' Campaign
   Fails to Stem Brand's Sales Slide
   ----
   By Joanne Lipman
The unhappy turn of events is prompting some ad industry
observers to question the entire campaign. "It's it"
positions Lite as the best beer, period -- not just the best
light beer. One commercial even pits Lite directly against
mammoth Budweiser, the country's best-selling beer, from
Anheuser-Busch.
   In that ad, the password to get into a party peopled by
gorgeous, leggy women in tight miniskirts is "It's it and
that's that." A tacky guy sporting an open shirt and gold
chain approaches and starts reciting the Budweiser slogan,
saying, "Nothing beats a-" and is promptly cut off and turned
away. He's shunted to a sleepy, boring bar across the street.
   Miller executives defend the new campaign, the first
effort from ad agency Leo Burnett in Chicago, which won the
account last year from Backer Spielvogel Bates. "We believe
strongly in this campaign and are working hard to continue
and expand upon it," a spokesman says. He says the strategic
message behind it, "the best beer for me today," is
understood and is "meaningful and relevant to beer drinkers."
   But some ad industry observers believe Lite has made an
uncharacteristic misstep, that "It's it" doesn't send any
clear message at all. Larry Light, of the Stamford, Conn.,
consulting firm Arcature, says positioning Lite not as a
light beer but as a terrific beer is "an excellent strategy,
a big idea." But the campaign's execution "gets in the way of
the strategy. You say, `What in the world do you mean by
that?'"
   "It needs some fixing. It just doesn't catch you," agrees
Michael Bellas, president of Beverage Marketing Corp., a New
York research and consulting firm, although he, too, likes
the strategy. Even some people in the Miller camp have
advised it to change the campaign, executives close to the
brewer say.
   The Miller spokesman counters that "we create advertising
for beer drinkers, not consultants." And he says that in
research, beer drinkers "are telling us we're on course."
   Miller has been making some minor adjustments to the
campaign, a move applauded by critics. It recently replaced
the musical soundtrack on two ads, for example, with a more
upbeat jingle to the tune of Chris Kenner's early 1960s hit,
"I Like It Like That." Warbles a singer: "Come on, let me
show you where it's at. Miller Lite, it's it and that's
that."
   More than a little tinkering may be necessary, though, to
put Lite back in the driver's seat. The brand's sales were
off 4% in 1991, almost double the 2.4% drop by the beer
industry as a whole and in spite of a 5.5% increase for the
light beer category over all, according to M. Shanken
Communications, publisher of the trade magazine Impact.
Philip Morris won't comment on sales trends.
   Lite remains the No. 2 beer brand after Budweiser, but it
also faces unprecedented competition from feisty light
competitors. Anheuser-Busch's Bud Light and Adolph Coors's
Coors Light are now the third-largest and fourth-largest
beers in the country, says Frank Walters, Shanken's director
of research. And in these tough economic times, budget-priced
lights are growing fastest of all. The top five low-priced
light beers saw an overall sales increase of a stunning 26%.
   Results in the months since Lite's new campaign broke,
meanwhile, aren't encouraging. For the third quarter, the
most recent quarterly results available, supermarket sales of
Lite were off 9%, says Jerry Steinman, publisher of Beer
Marketer's Insights, a West Nyack, N.Y., trade publication.
He cautions that it's far too soon to dismiss the new
campaign. He should know: Almost 20 years ago, he predicted
that another Miller campaign would fail. "Miller Time" went
on to become one of the most successful campaigns in
advertising history.
   ---
   Safeway Taps McCann
                                                                                                       

   Safeway Supermarkets Inc., an Oakland, Calif., unit of
Kohlberg Kravis Roberts  Co., tapped Interpublic Group's
McCann-Erickson to handle its account, consolidating $40
million in billings previously split among six agencies.
   McCann-Erickson's San Francisco and New York offices
bested the same offices of WPP Group's J. Walter Thompson in
the review, which had been under way since July. Ogilvy 
Mather, New York, and the San Francisco and New York offices
of Omnicom's BBDO were eliminated earlier this fall. The win
comes two days after McCann snared another hefty chunk of
billings, the estimated $28 million Anacin account.
   McCann's San Francisco and Phoenix offices were incumbents
on regional portions of the Safeway business. The others were
Ketchum Communications' San Francisco office; the Denver
office of Omnicom's DDB Needham; Philips-Ramsey, Phoenix;
Stanton Bondo  Co., Seattle; and Richardson Strang Engel,
Portland, Ore. Safeway said the agency would open local
offices to service Safeway units in those cities.
   ---
   Ad Notes. . . .
                                                                                                       

   ACQUISITION: Cleveland agency Meldrum  Fewsmith acquired
regional competitor Hesselbart  Mitten, doubling its
billings to $120 million. Terms of the cash and stock
transaction weren't disclosed. The new agency, Meldrum 
Fewsmith Communications, comprises five operating units.
Chris N. Perry, Meldrum's chairman and chief executive, takes
on the same role at the new company.