Reliance Electric Mulls Public Offering;
   Banks to Give $650 Million in Financing
   ----
   By Gabriella Stern and Steven Lipin
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
Reliance, which makes industrial and telecommunications
equipment, plans to file its offering with the Securities and
Exchange Commission within two weeks. A Reliance spokesman
declined to say how proceeds of the IPO would be used.
   With the IPO, Reliance will become the latest of the 1980s
leveraged buy-outs, including York International Corp. and
Duracell International Inc., to return to public ownership,
thus reducing debt and providing hefty returns to original
investors. In the case of Reliance, original investors
supplied $39.2 million in equity; the company reportedly
values its 22.2 million shares of common at around $700
million, or roughly $31.50 a share. That translates into a
77% annual return over the five years, said Edward Mally, an
analyst at Salomon Brothers.
   The company did not file a prospectus for the offering,
and a company spokesman said Reliance hasn't yet determined
how many shares would be sold or the per-share price.
   An IPO would pave the way for Reliance's largest owner,
Citicorp, to cash out on its 43% stake, which it paid about
$16.8 million for and which is now valued at an estimated
$300 million. The New York bank isn't, however, selling
shares in the company at this time.
   Other holders of common equity are Prudential Securities
Inc., a unit of Prudential Insurance Co. of America, with
13%, and Reliance management and employees, 19%. Debenture
holders have the remaining 25% interest.
   Last year, Reliance, under pressure from Citicorp eager to
exit its investment, actively sought an outside buyer with
assistance from Goldman, Sachs  Co. Talks with Siemens AG, a
German electrical conglomerate, ended in December when the
two sides couldn't agree on Reliance's value. The pressure on
Reliance to find a buyer eased somewhat when Citicorp saw a
gain on its investment through a new accounting method that
values equity investments at or near market value.
   In December, when talks with Siemens ended, John C.
Morley, Reliance president and chief executive officer, said
he couldn't foresee doing an IPO sooner than the second half
of 1992. But people close to Reliance say the company
accelerated the timetable because investors have become hot
on companies that are reducing debt.
   Russell Leavitt, an analyst with Salomon Brothers, said
Reliance has a reputation as "a high quality company with a
strengthened balance sheet and a strong position in electric
motors." Adds Maureen Lentz, an analyst with Roulston  Co.,
"It's a good time to do an IPO. The stock market's high and
the value placed on industrial stocks is higher this quarter
due to interest rate cuts."
   Reliance, which had 1991 sales of $1.5 billion, has
operated privately since December 1986 when a management-led
investor group purchased it from Exxon Corp. It has since
reduced initial debt to $600 million from $1.2 billion, and
has no outstanding bank loans, making it attractive to
lenders, analysts say.
   Meanwhile, as part of its refinancing, Reliance said it
may repurchase, with cash and bank credit, $100 million of
subordinated debt and preferred stock. The company has a
total of $710 million of outstanding debt and preferred
stock.
   Reliance yesterday reported fourth-quarter net income of
$7 million, or 12 cents a share, on sales of $391 million,
down 36% from $11 million, or 31 cents a share, a year
earlier. Sales rose slightly to $391 million from $388
million. For the year, Reliance earned $34 million, or 67
cents a share, compared with $48 million, or $1.34 a share,
in 1990. Sales were flat.