Foreign Exchange:
   Dollar May Be Vulnerable in Near Term
   Over Concerns About Fed Intervention
   ----
   By Candace Cumberbatch
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
After soaring against all major foreign currencies between
Jan. 9 and Wednesday, the dollar fell sharply Friday because
of a sudden outbreak of profit-taking. In late New York
trading, the U.S. currency was quoted at 124.45 yen and
1.5930 marks, down from 128.35 yen and 1.6173 marks late
Thursday.
   In early trading in Tokyo Monday, the dollar was at 123.30
yen, down sharply from Friday's close of 127.95 yen. The U.S.
currency was trading at 1.5850 marks, off from 1.6263 marks
Friday.
   The New Year's dollar rally was fueled by heavy technical
purchases, the growing belief that U.S. interest rates have
nearly bottomed, and expectations for lower German rates. A
narrowing of the differential between low U.S. rates and high
German rates would make yields in the U.S. credit market more
attractive.
   The catalyst for the bulk of Friday's dollar dumping was
news that the Federal Reserve Bank of New York was seen
selling dollars at 127.20 yen in late trading here. Although
concerns about intervention arose earlier this month, reports
about the Fed's sales still took the market by surprise.
   If the Fed did intervene, the state of U.S.-Japan
merchandise trade may have had a lot to do with its decision
to act. A continued dollar rise against the yen would make
U.S. exports even less competitive in the Japanese markets,
damping what little demand there is for U.S. products. A
higher dollar might also cause Americans to step up their
purchases of Japanese goods.
   Both of those developments would cause a rise in the U.S.
trade deficit with Japan, which was $38.97 billion in the
first 11 months of 1991. In November, the gap with Japan
declined to $3.41 billion from $4.64 billion in October; the
overall U.S. trade deficit was an unexpectedly small $3.57
billion that month.
   Friday's intervention was "a very strong message" about
the dollar's level against the yen, says Nori Kato, a trader
at Industrial Bank of Japan Ltd. in New York. There is now a
chance that the dollar will move down toward 122 yen on
intervention fears, he says, predicting that dollar sales
against the yen will become particularly aggressive if the
Bank of Japan is seen intervening.
   Intervention aside, technical resistance is also causing
problems for the dollar, traders say. Last week, the dollar
reached a four-week high of 129.35 yen and a seven-week peak
of 1.6355 marks, but buying interest faded quickly around
those levels.
   Currency analysts say there probably won't be a lasting
dollar rise until U.S. economic growth quickens and the
differential between U.S. and German rates declines
substantially.
   Both of those developments will probably occur by June and
cause a dollar surge to 135 yen and 1.75 marks, says Sung Won
Sohn, chief economist at Norwest Corp. in Minneapolis.