German Electronics Firms Spearhead
   Push to Recycle Computer Equipment
   ----
   By Laurence Hooper
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
And while Germany is undoubtedly in the vanguard of
"green" computing, other countries won't be far behind. The
European Community is likely to adopt similar recycling
regulations by the mid-1990s, industry executives say, and
the U.S. and Japan may follow. The prospect is forcing every
major computer maker to rethink how its machines are
designed.
   "In the future, everyone will have to develop more
ecological products," says Sylvia Bleck, a spokewoman on the
issue for IBM Deutschland G.m.b.H., the German unit of
International Business Machines Corp. "Computers can be very
problematic from an environmental point of view, and makers
will soon have to deal with this themselves."
   Of course, electronic equipment doesn't have the pollution
problems of, say, automobiles. But some computers contain
dangerous chemicals or coatings and many contain "complex"
plastics that are especially hard to recycle -- or to burn
safely. Almost all computers are hard to dismantle into
separate, recyclable components such as glass and metal.
   More important, however, is the politically incorrect
culture of the electronics industry. Its emphasis on constant
innovation creates a vast number of obsolete machines every
year: About 800,000 metric tons of "electronic waste" are
generated annually in the former West Germany alone,
according to the German Ministry for the Environment.
Computers currently constitute less than a tenth of that
waste but, 10 years after the personal-computer revolution,
the percentage is growing quickly.
   As one of the pioneers in Germany's green-computer push,
IBM has since June 1990 accepted return of all its products
for recycling, charging customers as little as 50 marks ($30)
to cart away a computer terminal or as much as 5,000 marks to
dispose of a large mainframe computer. IBM's German unit has
also created a "chief ecologist" position, a move now
duplicated at most of the company's European units.
   Already, IBM Deutschland's chief ecologist has convened a
world-wide meeting of IBM product designers, hoping to
instill awareness of necessary changes in the industry.
Still, Ms. Bleck says, much remains to be done: Because some
of IBM's bigger machines are on the drawing board five years
before they hit the market, many design changes won't
percolate through until the mid-1990s.
   Other computer makers agree about the size of the task.
"It requires some drastic changes that we started preparing
for quite a number of years ago," says Bruno Didier, European
director of marketing for Compaq Computer Corp., which has
its European base in Munich.
   First fruits are now becoming evident, Mr. Didier says:
Compaq uses a new type of recyclable battery in its latest
notebooksized PC, for example, and a new family of Compaq PCs
is designed so users can make a machine more powerful simply
by changing a circuit board, rather than buying an entire new
machine.
   At Siemens Nixdorf Informationssysteme AG, the company has
adopted an internal rule that says SNI must perform better
than any competitor on environmental issues. Starting next
month, the Siemens AG unit will accept any of its old
machines for recycling, free of charge to anyone with an SNI
service contract.
   Computer industry officials have different explanations of
why Germany-and, to a lesser extent, Europe as a whole-is
taking the lead on making computers recyclable. In part, the
movement is a societal phenomenon that has touched all
industries: German car makers are now touting the
recyclability of their newest models, for example.
   "The German conscience on this matter is simply deeper,"
says Rainer Hoffman, deputy director of the
information-technology arm of VDMA, a broad German industry
group. "There is a lot of pressure to be in the avant-garde
on environmental issues. Politicians can't afford to ignore
this, which has led to the new reglations."
   Mr. Hoffman and others say a major reason is the strength
of the Green party in Germany, which has forced the Christian
Democrat government to pass stringent regulations that
pre-empt criticism from the left. Mr. Rogge of SNI also
suggests that Germany's high population density has made
Germans more conscious of waste-disposal issues.
   At Ing. C. Olivetti  Co., spokeswoman Loredana Gambino
says another big factor is a traditional European concern
about the relationship between man and machine -- a field now
known by the buzzword "ergonomics." Sweden has led a
worldwide campaign to reduce the electromagnetic emissions of
computer monitors, for example, while Scandinavian design is
often touted as the most user-friendly in the world.
   Olivetti, the Italian office-equipment giant, is also
known for its meticulous attention to design and has gained
valuable knowledge in making its photocopiers more
environment-friendly. (With their extensive use of poisonous
chemicals, copiers pose especially thorny problems.) The firm
has also developed biodegradable ribbon cartridges for its
printers and typewriters and may even enter the field of
recycling electronic equipment for other companies, says Ms.
Gambino.
   Along with Scandinavia and Switzerland, Italy seems to be
emerging as a European leader in green electronics. But even
Olivetti has saved some of its best efforts for Germany: Here
at the CeBIT show, the firm's German unit TA Triumph-Adler AG
is touting a new electronic typewriter made from recycled
typewriter-ribbon cartridges, for example.
   Ms. Gambino says Triumph-Adler decided to start making the
"Cyclo" typewriter when it collected five tons of plastic
from German customers who responded to the firm's offer to
collect old cartridges. The new machine's marketing pitch is
explicitly green -- designed to appeal to the same customers
who returned the cartridges in the first place.
   Still, not every aspect of the German green-electronics
movement pleases manufacturers. For instance, the draft
legislation would require firms to accept and recycle old
equipment made by their competitors. "We don't think this is
the best way to motivate companies to make changes," says Mr.
Hoffman of the VDMA industry group, who says equipment makers
should only have to accept their own machines, giving good
recyclers a competitive advantage.