Medicine:
   New Biopsy Technique for Breast Lumps
   Is Called Quicker, Cheaper, Less Painful
   ----
   By Jerry E. Bishop
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
In the last several months, the new approach, called
stereotactic automated large-core biopsy, has been
encountered by a small but growing number of women.
Proponents say it is faster, cheaper, less painful and less
disfiguring than the conventional surgical biopsy that
500,000 American women undergo each year.
   "The patients uniformly say there is a minimum of pain and
that they would be willing to undergo it again, which they
don't say with surgical biopsy," says Jack Meyer, professor
of radiology at Harvard Medical School. In the last five
months, Dr. Meyer has used the technique to perform biopsies
on more than 60 women at the Brigham and Women's Hospital in
Boston as part of a study. "The surgeons who have referred
patients to me are pleased with the results," he says.
   Dr. Meyer also praises the speed of the new method. Many
women, he says, find it almost intolerable to wait for days
and even weeks for a surgical biopsy.
   But some researchers worry that many radiologists, who see
a chance to profitably invade a turf occupied by surgeons,
may be rushing to offer the new biopsy method far too soon,
before its limitations and hazards are fully known.
   Stereotactic breast biopsy uses stereoscopic X-ray
mammograms to pinpoint in three dimensions the location of a
suspicious lump that has shown up in a mammogram. A computer
helps aim a springloaded "gun" that shoots a hollow-core
needle into the lesion in a fraction of a second. The needle
pulls out a "core" of tissue large enough for a pathologist
to determine the nature of the lump.
   With the new technique, the biopsy procedure itself takes
only about 20 minutes, and improvements in the works may cut
that to less than 10 minutes. If a radiologist and a surgeon
are available to evaluate a routine mammogram immediately,
the stereotactic biopsy can be done on the same day and even
in the same radiology clinic. In contrast, the conventional
surgical biopsy requires scheduling days ahead of time and
five to six hours in a hospital under general anesthesia.
   To top it off, the stereotactic needle biopsy typically
costs $750 to $1,000, a half to a third of the cost of a
surgical biopsy.
   The idea of needle biopsy -- the sampling of tissue with a
thin, hollow needle -- is hardly new; it is widely and almost
routinely used to help diagnose tumors in many parts of the
body. But until now, it has been of limited value in breast
cancer. At most, surgeons have sometimes inserted an
ultrathin needle into a suspicious breast lump to see if it
is filled with fluid, a feature of a benign cyst.
   Most breast surgeons, though, have shunned needle breast
biopsies of suspicious lumps as unreliable. If a breast lump
is large enough to be palpable, or felt, there is always the
worry that the needle may miss the malignant cells in the
lump, resulting in a dangerous "false negative." For such
large lumps, surgical excision biopsy is likely to continue
to be the main method of diagnosis.
   It's another matter, however, for the nonpalpable lesions
that are usually first detected by mammography during routine
health checkups. In 80% to 90% of the cases, these tiny lumps
are benign. But a great many women have had to undergo
expensive, painful and sometimes disfiguring surgical
biopsies just to make sure.
   This situation began to change in the 1980s, when makers
of X-ray machinery devised mammography equipment that could
take mammograms from two angles 30 degrees apart. The
resulting stereotactic views could locate a breast lump in
three dimensions and thus allowed radiologists and surgeons
for the first time to accurately guide a needle into a lump.
   Using this "stereo" feature, researchers began
experimenting with needle biopsies of nonpalpable breast
lumps. The results were promising, but there were enough
drawbacks to discourage wide use. Even when the skinny needle
got enough cells to examine, there was always a worry that
the needle might have plunged into normal cells in the lump
and missed the malignant cells. Moreover, a specially trained
cytologist -- who had to be hired by the hospital -- could
tell doctors whether the cells were malignant but couldn't
determine what type of growth they came from -- a guide to
treatment.
   The turning point, say researchers, came last August with
a report by a team of radiologists headed by Steve H. Parker
and William E. Jobe of Radiology Imaging Associates, the
private radiology clinic in Englewood, Colo., where Ms. Grove
underwent her needle biopsy last month.
   Dr. Parker says that in 1987 he was doing a lot of needle
biopsies of cancers of the prostate, liver and other organs
using a spring-loaded "gun" developed in Sweden and sold by a
unit of C.R. Bard  Co. The gun could shoot a needle straight
into a tumor in seven-thousandths of a second, before the
tumor could be pushed out of the way by the advancing needle
tip.
   Dr. Parker found that the accuracy of cancer detection was
greatly improved if he used a "core" needle that was much
wider than the aspiration needle. "After I published an
article {on the core biopsy}, William Jobe called me up and
asked me if I thought it could be used in the breast," Dr.
Parker recalls. A short while later, the two radiologists
began a trial with women who agreed to have a core needle
biopsy just before they underwent a scheduled surgical
biopsy.
   In the first series of patients, Drs. Parker and Jobe
found a problem with the mammography machine from General
Electric Co. they were using. The GE system, like most other
mammography systems, requires the patient to sit still and
upright for a half-hour or so. If the woman has an
involuntary muscle jerk at the wrong time, the needle can
miss the lump. Moreover, the patient can see the needle being
inserted, and there was worry the sight might make some women
faint.
   After their first 30 patients, Drs. Parker and Jobe
switched to a "stereo" mammography machine that was designed
in Sweden but made by a small Denver company, Fischer Imaging
Corp. With this machine, the woman lies face down on a table
with her breast protruding through a hole, and the needle gun
is out of sight.
   After biopsies on 103 patients, the radiologists reached
the point where their needle biopsies were getting the same
results as surgical biopsies. In a second series of 102
patients, their results agreed with the surgical biopsy
results 96% of the time, the researchers reported in August
in the journal Radiology. The needle biopsy missed two breast
lesions that the surgeons found later -- but the surgeons
missed two lesions that needle biopsies found.
   Radiologists have bought more than 100 of the $120,000
Fischer Mammotest systems since early 1990, says Fischer's
chief executive, Morgan Nields. Spurred by the reports of
Drs. Parker and Jobe, "the rate of orders has increased every
quarter," he says. He estimates other manufacturers have sold
200 stereotactic "add-ons" that permit their mammography
systems to be used for needle biopsies.
   That may be a problem, though, because academic
researchers still haven't had time to identify the best way
to use the technique or the type of patient who is most
likely to benefit. "There aren't enough reports published"
evaluating the new method, says radiologist Daniel Kopans of
Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston. "We need to know
that Steve Parker isn't the only one who can do this."