Letters to the Editor:
   Those Lonely Rich Guys at the Top
Regulation is not the fundamental problem with corporate
governance. Rather, rational wealth-maximizing investors
don't care about voting because their fractional interest in
the outcome is too small -- the familiar free-rider problem.
Except for dissidents in full-blown proxy fights over board
seats, which will remain rare after reform, the only
investors who care enough to get involved in
corporate-governance "issues" are those with non-pecuniary
motives.
   Not surprisingly, public pension fund managers have been
the main advocates of the proxy-reform movement -- fresh from
their victories over corporate investment in South Africa and
the corruption of Third World motherhood. In effect, proxy
reformers advocate greater reliance on government agents to
ameliorate the corporate-agency problem. Give me one coherent
reason to believe that shareholder wealth should thereby
increase.
   Robert Comment
   Associate Director
   Bradley Policy Research Center
   William E. Simon Graduate School
   of Business Administration
   University of Rochester
   Rochester, N.Y.
   ---
   Why is Lee Iacocca singled out by Mr. Gigot as being one
of the most overpaid? Surely there are others more deserving
of this dubious honor, such as Rand Araskog of ITT or William
Anders of General Dynamics. Yet Mr. Iacocca is mentioned four
times, the former two not once. Even Steven Ross of Time
Warner is mentioned only once, and Mr. Avarice himself --
Michael Milken -- an admitted felon who made 100 times that
of Mr. Iacocca, is made mention of only once.
   No executive should receive an exorbitant income simply
because of his position -- rather, his pay should be somewhat
tied to his company's performance. With that in mind, I
remember a time when Mr. Iacocca's salary was $1 and his
options of Chrysler stock were worth peanuts. Considering the
shape Chrysler was in at the time, the pay for his CEO
abilities and talents was quite a bargain. Some of us need
our memories refreshed.
   Dane Shellhouse
   Round Rock, Texas
   ---
   Mr. Iacocca has the hubris to chide the Japanese on their
business practices. His salary is almost 145 times the salary
of an average auto worker, while his company is wading in a
sea of losses both in profit and market share.
   As thousands of auto workers are thrown out of jobs,
management continues to draw bonuses. Roger Smith, the grand
guru of GM's "turnaround," quietly draws a $1.2 million
annual pension. What a reward for failure.
   Perhaps if responsible boards would cut dividends when
profits were down, shareholders might start to hold
management's feet to the fire. Management that loses market
share and profits must be held accountable -- it should be
the first to pay the price, not the assembly-line worker.
   John Nellis
   Fairfield, Ohio
   ---
   Mr. Gigot argues that "the `market' in CEO pay doesn't
work." He proposes that President Bush follow the lead of SEC
Chairman Richard Breeden and promote "a shareholder bill of
rights" that would make corporate managers fully accountable
to shareholders. A more fruitful approach would be to
eliminate the corporate income tax, by integrating corporate
and personal income, and then substitute a consumption tax
for the income tax.
   Shareholders would then let the capital market tell them
where to reinvest their profits instead of being locked into
inefficient investments by the current tax system. Those
managers who increased the current value of their firms'
assets would be rewarded and those who wasted resources would
be looking for work -- not traveling to Japan with the
president.
   James A. Dorn
   Vice President for Acadamic Affairs
   Cato Institute
   Washington
   ---
   The facts presented by Mr. Gigot do not convincingly
demonstrate that CEOs are overpaid. Indeed, the same facts
are consistent with the hypothesis that U.S. CEOs are
underpaid. For example, for a short time, a
multimillion-dollar bonus may be a bargain, even to a company
losing money, if the CEO can be credited with avoiding even
greater losses.
   Even accepting Mr. Gigot's assertion that CEOs are
overpaid, his prescriptions for change ignore how markets
work and governments fail. If U.S. CEOs are overpaid, and if
that translates into significant reductions in profitability,
markets will provide the necessary discipline.
   The belief in 1992 that government can determine a level
of CEO compensation that is "efficient," and also establish
the nature of contractual relationships between a private
firm and its CEO, is astonishing. A recurring theme of the
Journal's own editorials has been that such excessive
governmental intervention is more likely to be a cause of
noncompetitiveness than a cure. The broad contents of CEO
compensation packages are publicly available to investors,
who have many alternatives. Similarly, consumers are free to
purchase alternative products. Whom would more government
regulations protect even if they worked?
   A free-market system does not mean that participants do
not err. Paraphrasing a line from "The Teahouse of the August
Moon," it means only that they have a right to make the wrong
choice.
   Charles E. Teclaw
   Los Alamos, N.M.