Bear Stearns Posts
   Record Profit, Sets
   Special Dividend
   ----
   By William Power
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
For its fiscal second quarter, ended Dec. 31, Bear Stearns
reported net income of $77.4 million, or 74 cents a share,
nearly five times the securities firm's year-earlier net of
$16.9 million, or 15 cents a share. Revenue shot up to $698
million from $586.7 million.
   A third of that revenue came from principal transactions,
or trading for the firm's own account, which doubled to a
record $237.9 million amid active markets in mortgage-backed
and government securities, corporate bonds and high-yield
junk bonds. Investment banking revenue quadrupled to $98.2
million, reflecting the underwriting boom.
   Bear Stearns also profited from individual investors'
increased trading through its growing trade-processing
operation. Commission revenue rose 34% to $97.8 million. Bear
Stearns also cashed in part of its merchant-banking
investment in Jenny Craig Inc. Lawrence Eckenfelder, a
brokerage-industry analyst at Prudential Securities Inc.,
estimated that the gain added four cents a share to Bear
Stearns's earnings.
   Because of the better-than-expected results, analyst Dean
Eberling of Shearson Lehman Brothers Inc. sharply boosted his
earnings estimate for Bear Stearns's 1992 fiscal year to
$2.80 a share from $2.25. The trade-processing, or clearing,
business "could really help them over the next few quarters,"
Mr. Eberling said.
   A less-positive development: Normally cost-conscious Bear
Stearns posted a 78% increase in compensation and benefits
costs for its 5,700 employees to $239.9 million. But Mr.
Greenberg said that's because employees make more money when
the firm does well. "It's not a negative; it's a positive,"
he said. "I hope the compensation costs go up every quarter.
It means the stockholders are making a fortune."
   Separately, Bear Stearns declared the usual quarterly
dividend of 15 cents a share and an additional five-cent
special payout, both payable Feb. 28 to stock of record Feb.
14. Mr. Greenberg called the one-time payment "a special
surprise for holders."
   The overall pickup in individual-investor trading had
earlier boosted earnings at two other major brokerage firms,
Primerica Corp.'s Smith Barney, Harris Upham  Co. unit and
discount broker Charles Schwab Corp. However, some analysts
caution that Wall Street's increased trading activity could
slacken as the year continues.