FORM + FUNCTION
   ----
   By John Pierson
PRESSURED by environmentally conscious consumers and by
regulators, makers of personal and household products are
inching away from aerosol dispensers toward pumps. But many
consumers still prefer aerosols, and the aerosol industry
says its products are no less friendly to the environment
than many non-aerosol dispensers.
   Procter  Gamble recently began offering its Sure Pro and
Old Spice men's deodorants in finger pumps as well as aerosol
cans. PG says the pumps eliminate the propellants used in
aerosols and the "annoying" cloud they create. A TV
commercial for Sure Pro ends by urging consumers to "can the
can."
   Gillette, maker of Right Guard, the No. 1 men's deodorant,
says PG is exploiting the environmental issue, though it
remains one of the biggest suppliers of aerosol products.
   Some companies say the move to pumps is due, in part, to a
widespread misconception. Cynthia Georgeson, a spokeswoman
for S.C. Johnson  Co., says that despite a 1978 ban on the
use of ozone-depleting chlorofluorocarbons as aerosol
propellants, 86% of Americans still believe that aerosols
contain CFCs, according to a Roper Organization study
commissioned by the company.
   Though aerosols no longer contain CFCs, many do contain
hydrocarbon propellants, which contribute to smog. But Harry
McCain, president of the National Aerosol Association, says
many pump sprays use smoggy hydrocarbons as solvents.
   Undaunted, PG has introduced a plunger pump to deliver
Vidal Sassoon hair spray in a fine, dry mist, like an
aerosol. The AirSpray relies on muscles -- a user pumps the
cap to build up air pressure in the can -- rather than canned
propellants. Compared with traditional aerosols, PG says,
AirSpray cuts hydrocarbon emissions by 39%.
                                                                                                       

   Trying to Make Art
   Of a Modern Blight
                                                                                                       

   SOMEDAY, that ugly parking lot outside your office window
may be transformed.
   Dennis Hickok, a landscape architect in West Hollywood,
Calif., has produced a one-acre "living painting" atop a
nine-level parking garage in Long Beach, Calif. Visible from
the adjacent 24-story Landmark Square office building, the
work, which Mr. Hickok did with Sasaki Associates of Los
Angeles, uses grass, flowers and shrubs to depict the Pacific
coast and a sunset over the ocean.
   His contribution is regarded as "a big plus" by the
Landmark Square management. "Some tenants ask to be on that
side," says David Churton, leasing director.
   At Los Angeles Center, a 48-story development due to break
ground this summer, tenants will look down on a park atop a
parking garage, decorated with a geometric design in grass
and painted asphalt. The landscape architects,
Schwartz/Smith/Meyer of San Francisco, wanted to do just an
abstract painting on asphalt. The developer said no.
   Landscape architects usually have a hard time persuading
developers to let them become painters. Mr. Hickok proposed,
without success, to paint the top deck of a parking garage as
a bird's-eye view of a suburban backyard, with blue swimming
pool, floating life preserver, towels and a striped umbrella.
   Money problems scuttled a plan by Houston's SWA Group to
paint a huge tennis court -- complete with a 10-foot tennis
ball -- on the top parking deck at Houston's Riverway
Development.
                                                                                                       

   But Does It Come
   With Mud Flaps?
                                                                                                       

   BILL Becoat hopes you'll soon look sweet upon the seat of
his bicycle built for two. Two-wheel drive, that is.
   Mr. Becoat, an Alton, Ill., businessman, says his
invention does as well over hills and on sand, mud, snow and
bumps as a fourwheel-drive car or truck. The Becoat bike is
conventional except for a flexible, rotating steel cable that
looks like a fat speedometer wire but transfers power from a
nylon ring gear on the rear hub to another on the front.
   The manufacturer, 2 Bi 2, St. Louis, plans to begin
selling the bike in August. Prices will range from $150 to
$1,200.
   The bike has its critics. Brad Hughes, director of product
development with WSI, Diamondback, a bicycle manufacturer in
Camarillo, Calif., says the Becoat bike raises safety
concerns. "You can't have great big cables hanging out
there," Mr. Hughes says.
   Richard Klein, associate professor of mechanical
engineering at the University of Illinois, shares doubts
about the Becoat bike's engineering but praises the idea of
two-wheel drive. "It's more sure-footed and more
energy-efficient," Dr. Klein says.
                                                                                                       

   Odds and Ends
                                                                                                       

   CAN'T AFFORD an airplane? Photographer Tony Weissgarber of
San Antonio, Texas, has designed a Hi-Pod tripod that can
lift a camera 30 feet into the air. . . . Complexity:
One-third of Americans have given up trying to program their
videocassette recorders, says a survey conducted by R.H.
Bruskin Associates for Thomson, maker of RCA-brand VCRs.