Inside Track:
   A Winter Sale?
   Insiders Unload
   As Shares Rally
   ----
   By Alexandra Peers
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
"There's been a flood of selling," said David Coleman,
editor of Vickers Weekly Insider Report, a Huntington, N.Y.,
newsletter.
   Insider sales outnumbered buys about four-to-one in
filings received by the Securities and Exchange Commission in
the two weeks ended Feb. 21, according to Vickers. That's
when the SEC processed many insider filings of January
trades. Typically, sellers outnumber buyers 2.2-to-one,
reflecting routine sales of company stock obtained through
options exercises.
   Many investors watch insider buying and selling for clues
to the outlook for individual companies and the overall stock
market.
   "Either prices are getting way ahead of reality or
{company} fundamentals are deteriorating and Wall Street
doesn't know it yet," says Robert Gabele, president of
Invest/Net Inc., a Fort Lauderdale, Fla., company that tracks
and analyzes SEC data.
   It is tempting to dismiss the recent spate of insider
sales simply as profit-taking at attractive prices, a
"temporary blip," said Mr. Coleman, "but we make it out to be
an early warning signal." He notes that of the 1,400 insiders
reporting in the first two weeks of February whose trades
were $100,000 or more, there were twelve times as many
sellers as buyers.
   The computer and biotechnology industries led with the
most insider selling, but that's typical, given that
executives in these industries often receive company stock as
a substantial portion of their compensation. More notable is
the uncommonly strong insider selling at brokerage houses,
regional banks and airlines.
   Three such companies at which chairmen trimmed their own
stockholdings substantially include State Street Boston
Corp., Motorola Inc. and Mesa Airlines Inc., according to SEC
filings.
   Mr. Gabele said that insiders also are taking profits in
consumer specialty companies, office suppliers and housing
companies.
   Insider buying, on the other hand, has been scarce. But
what's notable is that "the industries where we've seen
insider buying seem to support the cyclical recovery
scenario," said Michael Painchaud, principal of Market
Profile Theorems Inc., a Seattle financial research firm.
There's been some insider nibbling at auto-parts companies,
machinery companies and in oil and gas stocks.
   In many cases, recent stock run-ups appeared to result in
prices too tempting for insiders to resist:
   -- Motorola's 52-week trading range has been $54 to $82.50
a share. Nineteen insiders got out of the stock at the high
end of that range in January, at prices ranging from $75.75
to $79.50 a share, SEC filings show.
   Motorola Chairman George M. Fisher exercised options to
purchase 28,475 shares on Jan. 17 at between $31 to $43 each
and immediately resold 22,765 of them at $78.50 each, SEC
filings show. He now holds 11,560 Motorola shares, including
newly acquired stock.
   Insider selling is common at the Schaumberg, Ill.,
electronics giant, and many of the Motorola sales were
related to the earlier exercise of stock options. But the
recent insider selling was still above the company's normal
pace. All told, the 19 insiders trimmed their holdings by
256,719 shares valued at about $20 million.
   The insider selling started immediately after Motorola's
release of fourth-quarter earnings. The company said net
income rose 16% to 96 cents a share from 82 cents a year
earlier, on slightly higher sales.
   A Motorola spokesman said the sales were bunched together
because the company has a narrow time window during which
insiders are allowed to sell shares. He said that the sales
in total represented less than 1% of Motorola top executives'
stock and stock-option ownership.
   -- The shares of State Street Boston have traded between
about $39 and $66.25 a share in the last year, closing
yesterday at $64 in over-the-counter trading. Boston-based
State Street serves as custodian for mutual funds, pension
funds and trusts.
   Since Jan. 17, State Street Chairman William S. Edgerly
has sold 195,000 shares at prices ranging from $59.50 to
$63.50 each, SEC filings show. The shares represented 83% of
his State Street stock. Mr. Edgerly has announced he will be
retiring at the end of 1992, and in December stepped down as
chief executive officer of the firm.
   Mr. Edgerly could not be reached for comment. State Street
Boston posted fourth-quarter net income of 73 cents a share,
fully diluted, down 10% from 83 cents a share a year earlier.
   -- Four officials of Mesa Airlines Inc., including the
chairman, sold a total of 59,375 shares valued at about $1.2
million in late December through Jan. 13.
   Mesa Airlines stock has been on a steady climb from its
$5-a-share level a year ago to its 52-week high of $23.50
reached earlier this month. Those prices are adjusted for a
three-for-two stock split effective Jan. 28. The stock closed
at $22.25 in over-the-counter trading yesterday.
   The largest insider sale was by Larry Risley, Mesa
Airlines chairman and president, who trimmed his holdings by
50,000 shares, or 17% of his holdings, at a splitadjusted
share price of $14.17 a share. He retains 248,085 shares,
according to SEC filings. In addition, a vice president and
an officer of the company sold 3,000 and 2,250 shares,
respectively, representing all of their Mesa Airlines shares,
according to the company.
   Mr. Risley could not be reached for comment, but Blaine
Jones, the company's chief financial officer, said Mr. Risley
"diversified his risk" with the stock sale; the other sales
were related to the exercise of options, he added.