Politics  Policy:
   Primaries May
   Be Driving Rule
   Changes by U.S.
   ---
   White House Pushes Easing
   Of Regulations for Firms
   In States Ready to Vote
   ----
   By Bob Davis and Rose Gutfeld
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
Meanwhile, with the Texas primary set for March 10, the
Treasury has announced support for tax legislation designed
to help independent oil and gas producers. Massachusetts,
home of a number of high-tech companies, also holds a primary
that day, and the Food and Drug Administration has said it
will quicken its review of biotech drugs.
   California won't have its primary until June 2, but the
president is taking measures that will please business there
too. He announced yesterday that he is making extra water
subsidized by the federal government available to farmers in
that state, and the Interior Department is reducing payments
required of independent oil producers with wells on public
lands, most of whom are in the west.
   These proposals aren't likely to produce tangible results
before the various primaries are held, but the
administration's policies almost surely will be noticed by
influential businessmen in the affected states. "They're
playing local constituency politics," said Thomas Mann,
director of government studies at the Brookings Institution.
   As part of a regulatory moratorium that coincides with the
bulk of the primaries, the White House has been pressing
agencies throughout the government to ease rules on business.
It has reserved its toughest pressure for the EPA, which is
seen by business as issuing the most costly rules. White
House Counsel Boyden Gray recently urged a group of
natural-gas executives and lobbyists to "help us with the
EPA."
   The environmental agency plans to tell auto makers shortly
that they won't have to install special canisters in new cars
to recapture gasoline vapors that seep out during refueling.
Auto makers, with the support of the Transportation
Department, have opposed the pending regulation because they
say it will make cars unsafe and push up costs. The White
House has long been pushing the EPA to drop the canister
plan, and the agency is now moving to issue a decision soon.
   While the canister decision undoubtedly will delight auto
makers in Michigan, it will disappoint oil companies in Texas
and California because more gas stations will have to install
attachments on pumps to catch the vapors instead.
   Environmentalists also will oppose scuttling the canister
rule. They probably will be even more outraged if the White
House carries out a plan it is considering to reduce
car-fleet fuel economy standards temporarily during the
recession.
   The president does have some goodies for environmentalists
in primary states. In Miami, where he attended four campaign
events on Wednesday in advance of Florida's March 10 primary,
the White House announced a tentative agreement on a $514
million project to clean up the Kissimmee Basin wetlands.
   But the administration's good news generally was reserved
for businesses. Months before it normally would confirm such
a budget plan, the White House said it will launch a new
project in manufacturing technology in the fiscal year
beginning Oct. 1, 1993. Robert White, commerce undersecretary
for technology who is supposed to lead the project, said he
wasn't even informed by the White House that it planned to
make the announcement.
   On Feb. 24, the day before President Bush and Vice
President Quayle attended fund-raisers in California, Mr.
Bush announced that the government would ease regulation of
biotech companies. Biotechnology is a burgeoning industry in
California and in Massachusetts, which FDA Commissioner David
Kessler visited yesterday to announce that his agency would
speed regulatory approval of new biotech drugs. Dr. Kessler
said he would shift 50 staff members to review biotech
applications. He also said the agency would replace a biotech
official loathed by industry.
   Administration officials deny that such actions are
designed to help President Bush score political points. White
House Chief of Staff Samuel Skinner even denied that the
administration has dropped its support for a proposal,
bitterly opposed by evangelical churches, to require
charities to report contributions of more than $500 annually.
The administration is simply re-evaluating "arguments on both
sides," Mr. Skinner maintained.
   Just two weeks ago, though, Vice President Quayle
dismissed the proposal, contained in the administration's
1993 budget, as "nonsense," and said that neither he nor the
president had known about it in advance.
   Yesterday in Memphis, Tenn., the president announced that
he is ordering the Interior Department to make one million
acre feet of water subsidized by the federal government
available to farmers in California, which recently has had
some heavy rainstorms after six years of drought. Large
amounts of the water will go to wealthy agricultural
interests, which are historically among the most influential
Republican power brokers in the state.
   Yet the Interior Department's Bureau of Reclamation has
been informing farm interests for the past two weeks that
they would get some federal water because a series of
ferocious storms that began late last month have swelled the
amount of water stored behind bureau dams. Some bureau
officials said they made the decision to increase water
deliveries themselves, independent of the White House.
   The Interior Department also said it is reducing the rate
of federal royalties that must be paid by so-called stripper
wells, which produce 15 barrels of oil a day or less. This
change, which was cheered by oil industry independents,
applies to wells on public lands, which are located mostly in
California, New Mexico, Wyoming and Colorado.
   "This is primary season, and we'll be accused of playing
politics," said a White House spokesman. "But President Bush
will be doing right by the American public."
   ---
   Charles McCoy in San Francisco contributed to this
article.