Management:
   Predecessor's
   Presence Clouds
   Power Transfer
   ----
   By Amanda Bennett and Joann S. Lublin
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
Apparently, Mr. Eaton has taken steps to protect his back
-- by negotiating a contract with the auto maker that
reportedly defines Mr. Iacocca's duties. But still, for Mr.
Eaton to succeed Mr. Iacocca as chairman of Chrysler, he's
going to have to move quickly on a day-to-day basis at
Chrysler headquarters to define where his job begins and Mr.
Iacocca's ends. He will have to move equally quickly to
consolidate support on the board, and if possible, to add his
own appointees.
   Even then, Mr. Eaton faces an uphill battle to succeed the
formidable Mr. Iacocca, according to consultants. Because Mr.
Iacocca has already driven out other heirs, and because he
isn't making an immediate clean break with the company, many
observers rate Mr. Eaton's chances of succeeding as less than
even. "All signs spell danger," says Warren Bennis, a
management professor at University of Southern California.
"Iacocca isn't really letting go," he adds.
   Mortimer Feinberg, chairman of management-consulting firm
BFS Psychological Associates Inc., New York, is more blunt:
"My prediction is that this guy will not make it."
   The annals of corporate succession are filled with the sad
stories of the men and women who thought they would end up
filling the shoes of a reluctantly departing top executive.
Armand Hammer at Occidental Petroleum Corp. outlasted at
least two potential successors, who left the company. He
eventually died in office. Potential successors to Harry Gray
at United Technologies Corp. suspected they were being spied
on. The founder and chairman of Winnebago Industries Inc.
ousted seven executives from the top spot, among them his own
son, during a 15-year period.
   Indeed, the job of dislodging an unwilling top executive
is so difficult that some recruiters won't even get involved.
"The right time to replace (a top executive) is when he is
ready to leave," says executive recruiter Frederick Wackerle
of McFeely, Wackerle,  Schulman in Chicago, who specializes
in the succession of chief executive officers. "I'm not going
to ruin somebody's career" by moving a new executive into a
no-win situation.
   The key is the board, says Jack Schuler. He should know.
He was president and chief operating officer at Abbott
Laboratories until he was abruptly forced out in August 1989.
He was the third chief operating officer to leave over
clashes with Abbott's strong-willed then-chairman, Robert
Schoellhorn. (Within a year of Mr. Schuler's departure, the
board forced out Mr. Schoellhorn.)
   Mr. Eaton, he says, "has to have an absolutely clear and
ironclad understanding with the board of directors" about his
powers and an imminent end to Mr. Iacocca's influence, says
Mr. Schuler. He adds that the most important thing is
something that he didn't secure for himself: a written accord
clearly stating that Mr. Eaton is working for Chrysler's
directors, rather than for the outgoing chairman.
   Otherwise, Mr. Schuler says, Mr. Iacocca will insist that
"he is indispensable, and that the company can't operate
without him." And if Mr. Iacocca retains a strong influence,
perhaps as an active Chrysler consultant, "there will be a
tendency to undercut" Mr. Eaton, the ex-Abbott official adds.
   Even with such a guarantee, others say, Mr. Eaton's
position is far from secure. If Mr. Iacocca steps down as
planned next year, he will remain in a powerful position as
chairman of the board's executive committee. In most
companies, the executive committee is the ruling committee,
overseeing such matters as succession. A Chrysler spokesman
says its executive committee, which Mr. Iacocca has chaired
since it was formed a year ago, handles "a range of issues"
and functions as the board between regular board meetings.
   As long as Mr. Iacocca keeps his board seat, "anybody
would be nuts to think they are going to run the company,"
argues an executive with close ties to Chrysler. The Chrysler
spokesman says, "I have no idea" when Mr. Iacocca will
relinquish the board committee chairmanship.
   Gerard Roche, chairman of Heidrick  Struggles Inc.,
executive recruiters, says: "I don't think the agreement
(with the board) means a thing." Mr. Roche thinks such
accords can't be enforced when the predecessor still
influences the board. What's more, he says, the board needs
to retain power to oust Mr. Eaton if he "falls flat on his
face."
   And "no matter what the agreement says," Mr. Roche adds,
"the shadow and the ghost of Lee Iacocca will be around for
(a long) time to come." He cited the experience of one
potential chief executive that he recruited, who secured
tough oral assurances of support from every board member
after the company's patriarch had pushed out two previous
would-be successors. The heir lasted less than four years.
   It's clear Mr. Iacocca isn't giving up his grip on power
willingly. Even in the course of the talks to hire Mr. Eaton,
Mr. Iacocca was lobbying to stay on as chairman past his
announced retirement. As it is, the "tendencies to undermine
a successor are always present," says Jeffrey Sonnenfeld, a
professor at Emory University's business school.
   Indeed, Lenore Hershey, who was editor-in-chief of Ladies
Home Journal for many years, admitted she once picked a
successor who wasn't up to the job. "There was a chance she
could make it. But not much," she says.
   Mr. Eaton's credentials as chairman of General Motors
Corp.'s European operations are considered strong. But Mr.
Bennis at the University of Southern California says strong
executives often use subtle means to undermine their heirs.
Mr. Bennis cites a case at a company that he was called in to
evaluate, in which the former top executive had retired as
chairman and remained as chairman of the executive committee,
as Mr. Iacocca intends to do. "He listened to all the
malcontents and subtly enouraged the negative feedback about
how poorly his successor was doing." The successor left the
company.
   For this reason, some suggest that people in Mr. Eaton's
position would be wise to negoiate a hefty separation package
in advance. Part of the reason is to make it very expensive
for the board to allow him to fail.
   But the agreement would also compensate the executive
should things not work out as planned. How much? "It's a
question," Mr. Schuler says, "of how much do you get paid for
a screwed-up career?" Mr. Schuler is still embroiled in
litigation with Abbott, seeking damages over three jobs he
says he was denied by a noncompetition agreement since
leaving the pharmaceutical and hospital-products company.
   Meanwhile, some companies are moving to avoid difficult
situations by taking greater control over succession. That
increasingly means denying a board seat to the predecessor
after he retires. Breaking tradition, American Telephone 
Telegraph Co.'s former chairman, Charles Brown, gave up his
board seat when he retired in 1986, and the company says the
practice is expected to continue.
   "I find there is more and more agreement with this
(approach) all the time," says Donald S. Perkins, retired
chairman and chief executive of Jewel Cos. and a member of
nine corporate boards. Mr. Perkins retired in 1980 but stayed
on the company's board until 1983-a decision that he says he
now regrets.