The Joy of Lower Expectations
   ----
   By Rachel Sherwood Roberts
There was no violin teacher in our small town, so my
mother, who had a degree in music, albeit with emphasis on
piano and keyboard, helped me as much as she could. I began
with basic scales, tunes, and waltzes, squeaking my bow back
and forth with much aplomb, my heart overflowing with joy.
   Gradually, I began to notice that at the very time I
practiced, various members of the family would decide to go
out. But I didn't even think much about it when my mother
took to hanging out clothes when I'd get serious about my
practicing.
   I finished high school and went off to college, taking my
violin. Since I had no desire to "do anything with my piano,"
yet loved music, I decided to focus on my violin training.
Remembering my parents' advice about taking liberal-arts
courses, I signed up for all the required first-year academic
classes and my elective in applied music. The next week I
showed up to meet my violin professor.
   A graduate of a prestigious conservatory and sophisticated
in the ways of a European, he was most likely a direct
descendant of gypsies who played Hungarian rhapsodies with
their eyes closed. He was at our university on some sort of
artistic exchange program and was, in all probability,
wondering what sorts of virtuosos he would be instructing. He
himself had played Carnegie Hall.
   Midway through my first lesson, he asked about my
background "in the violin." I explained I'd attended a school
where the music program was limited.
   "Humm, humm," he said and assigned some scales and
suggested I practice every day before our next meeting.
   The next lesson, after listening to me, he asked about my
background "with the voice." I explained I had never done any
singing except in church choir and some harmonizing with my
sister while doing dishes.
   "Humm, humm," he said and assigned an etude. The etude
eluded me, although I practiced it faithfully.
   After our third lesson, he asked me to tell him about my
background "in the piano." I explained how I'd been very
good. I mentioned that I'd played a movement from Beethoven's
"Sonata Pathetique" for my senior recital.
   "Humm, humm," he said thoughtfully and stared at the sky
from the small studio window. Turning back to me, he bowed
slightly and asked for my violin. "The violin," he said,
"must speak to the soul." Playing with dash and verve, his
eyes closed, he played a rhapsody, the etude, several
waltzes, and piece by Chopin.
   "Yes," I agreed.
   I began to look forward to my weekly lessons, for he
played for me then, his dark eyes flashing, his lithe body
swaying with each arpeggio, his swarthy skin pale with his
passion for the music. "There," he'd say, "now you know how
the Grieg must be" or "The Swan," or the Rachmaninoff.
   The semester came to an end, and with it my experience "in
the violin." My wonderful little violinist suggested that
perhaps, with my interest "in the music being what it was," I
might want to consider "returning to the piano on a casual
basis." He went on to explain that the university kept all
the practice pianos beautifully in tune, and the student or
person without perfect pitch might find that piano offered
"more opportunities, no?"
   I readily agreed.
   Sometimes I think back on that experience and smile, for
no doubt that perceptive artist decided to do what he could
for me. He would teach me how to recognize and appreciate
music, to listen to it with love and discrimination, and to
understand it with my heart.
   Goethe wrote, "One ought every day at least to hear a
little song, read a good poem, see a fine picture, and if it
were possible, to speak a few reasonable words." I believe
parents and teachers should speak a few reasonable words to
young people about success. Young people should be encouraged
to be realistic about their goals and dreams, while, at the
same time, learning to be passionate about their music,
drama, art, or whatever subject captures their joy and speaks
to their souls.
   ---
   Mrs. Roberts enjoys music in Auburn, Ind.