Bentsen to Offer Tax Package That Cuts
   Benefit for Children, Capital-Gains Levy
   ----
   By Jackie Calmes
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Meanwhile yesterday, after hours of partisan bickering,
the House voted 427-1 against a package of Mr. Bush's tax
proposals that Democrats had compiled and the administration
had disavowed. The Republicans instead back a seven-point
package that includes Mr. Bush's proposed capital-gains cut,
but not his proposed middleclass tax cut. The Democrats
wanted a vote on Mr. Bush's overall tax proposals, which
include some business-tax increases anathema to GOP
lawmakers, to dramatize the lack of support even in his own
party. But Republicans voted as a bloc with Democrats in
hopes of rendering the tally meaningless. The sole supporter
was a Democrat, Bill Orton of Utah.
   In preparation for today's vote, House Democratic leaders
continued to hustle for support for their tax package.
Private head counts showed them short of a sure majority;
most Republicans are expected to oppose the Democratic plan,
because it taxes upper-income individuals to finance tax cuts
for other individuals and business. That means Democrats need
support from all but about 50 of their 268 members to pass
the plan.
   In any event, the vote is virtually certain to show that
Congress couldn't override the president's threatened veto of
any bill that raises taxes. A statement from Treasury
Secretary Nicholas Brady last night urged House Democrats to
stop the "political shennanigans" and pass the president's
economic plan. But House Speaker Thomas Foley (D., Wash.)
disputed suggestions that Democrats were playing politics,
knowing their bill wasn't likely to become law. Democrats
can't "all fall down and obey his injunction not to take up
legislation," he said. "If that were the case, the president
would totally control the legislative agenda."
   Sen. Bentsen said his package would be smaller than the
House Democrats' measure, which includes tax cuts valued at
$79.5 billion over six years and $93.5 billion in higher
taxes. The tax increases mostly come from a new top rate of
35% and a surtax on millionaires.
   The senator said his proposal also will include a
millionaires surtax, but a new top rate will affect
individuals of much higher income than would be taxed by the
House bill. While the House Democrats' proposal would apply
to individuals with taxable income of at least $85,000 a
year, Sen. Bentsen indicated his proposal would start with
individuals making well over $100,000.
   He dismissed Mr. Bush's recent predictions that Democrats
would end up taxing everyone with income above $35,000,
saying, "We're talking about a tax starting at approximately
four times as high as that."
   Sen. Bentsen, who last fall proposed a $300-a-child tax
credit for all taxpayers, said he would limit such a credit
to middle-income families. That would help satisfy Democratic
critics, who complained that such tax relief shouldn't go to
the rich. It also would help hold down the proposal's cost.
Sen. Bentsen's initial proposal would have cost $60 billion
over five years, and he is trying to cut it to something over
$30 billion.
   He has resisted some Democrats' calls to make the credit
refundable, so that it could benefit poor workers who pay
little if any taxes. Sen. Bentsen argues that past
legislation provided relief to the poorest taxpayers, and
this year's bill is aimed at the middle class.
   The chairman said his proposal will embrace several
provisions in Mr. Bush's seven-point economic plan, with
modifications.
   The provisions include some investment incentive for
businesses, limited restoration of "passive loss" deductions
for real estate developers, a reduced tax rate on capital
gains from the sale of assets, an allowance for early,
penalty-free withdrawals from Individual Retirement Accounts,
and perhaps a tax credit for first-time home buyers. The
House Democrats' bill doesn't include a home buyers' credit,
an omission that Mr. Bush and Republicans have attacked.
   Sen. Bentsen also will propose to repeal a 10% luxury tax
on yachts and private airplanes. A number of popular tax
incentives, such as credits for business research and
development and for low-income housing, would be extended,
although it's unclear whether the extension would be
temporary or permanent given cost constraints.
   A major part of the package will be Sen. Bentsen's
personal priority, a liberalization of IRAs. He wants to
restore the full deduction to all taxpayers; now the benefit
is limited to lower-income families and those without other
retirement plans. Also, he would create a version of the IRA
that gives taxpayers a break when their money is withdrawn,
instead of an up-front deduction. And savers with existing
IRAs could roll over their accounts into the new type, if
they paid taxes on amounts previously deducted. The revenues
raised from this last rollover provision would help to offset
some of the proposal's overall cost, though the revenue loss
to the government in future years would be greater than under
current law.
   ---
   Jeffrey H. Birnbaum contributed to this article.