New Amex `Spiders' Mimic SP Index
   ----
   By Robert Steiner
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Late last month, the Amex quietly asked the Securities 
Exchange Commission to approve the proposed new security for
trading. The exchange declined to comment yesterday on SPDRs.
   But according to the SEC filing, here's how SPDRs would
work: Each SPDR would represent an interest in a trust
holding shares of the stocks in the SP 500 index. Quarterly
dividends paid on the SP 500 stocks would be passed through
to the investor, minus a fee of 0.20%.
   With SPDRs, the Amex seems eager to give small investors
an alternative to popular index funds. These funds, sold by
Vanguard Group, Fidelity Investments and a handful of other
mutual-fund companies, offer investors a way to match the
performance of stock-market averages.
   Investors also like index funds because of their lower
operating expenses, which give them a leg up on actively
managed mutual funds, with their higher management fees and
trading costs.
   Fanie Gouws, a trader at Brown Brothers Harriman, thinks
there are a "whole lot of reasons" why SPDRs "could be
attractive" to individual investors and small institutions.
"One of the most acceptable ways to control risks is to
diversify a stock portfolio," he says. But it can be
difficult for a small investor "to go out to buy 30 or 40
stocks."
   Investors can diversify by buying a mutual fund, but the
fees "associated with it tend to detract from its
performance," Mr. Gouws says. "Here we have a vehicle that
looks like an index fund and that is much less expensive."
   According to provisions described in the filing, SPDRs
would trade for about $40 each at the SP 500's current
level.
   But even in the face of SPDRs, some index funds would
remain attractive, says Donald Philips, publisher of
Morningstar Mutual Funds.
   "This product would have a tough time" going against
Vanguard's index fund, which has no load, or sales charge,
and a 0.19% fee, he says.
   By having depositary receipts backed by actual stocks held
in trust, the SPDR plan seems to sidestep concerns which
thwarted the Amex's first attempt in 1989 to launch a product
by which individual investors could track the SP 500.
   Then, the product, called "index participations," was
pulled from the Amex and the Philadelphia Stock Exchange
after a federal appeals court in Chicago declared that it was
more like futures than stocks and should not have been
approved by the SEC.
   Right now, investors can buy both futures and options on
the SP 500 and other stock-market indexes. But futures and
options expire in weeks, months or years; SPDRs don't.
   Investors would be able to buy SPDRs through a broker,
like any stock, and trade them on the Amex. The exchange has
designed a mechanism which glues the price of SPDRs to
movements in the index, as well as adjusting for any changes
in the makeup or weighting of SP 500 index.
   Large investors, expected to be brokerage firms, will be
able to exchange baskets of two million shares of the
component stocks of the SP 500, weighted to reflect the
weighting of the index, for 50,000 SPDRs through a trust set
up by the Amex.
   Because each batch of 50,000 SPDRs corresponds to a fixed
number of stocks held in trust, the SPDRs should track broad
movements in the collection of underlying stocks. But minor
discrepancies are likely to arise occasionally when investors
bid the price of the SP 500 out of line with its component
stocks.
   For instance, if investors are bullish on the broad
market, they may be more eager to snap up SPDRs than they
would be to buy the individual component stocks of the SP
500. Under such conditions, the SPDRs would become more
expensive than the basket of underlying stocks which they
represent. Brokerage firms might be encouraged to take
advantage of the discrepancy by buying up more stock to
exchange them into SPDRs, increasing the supply of SPDRs to
meet demand, and keeping the price of SPDRs in line with the
index.
   If, on the other hand, SPDRs are cheaper than the SP 500
component stocks, brokers will want to grab handfuls of SPDRs
and exchange them back into more valuable stock -- once again
putting SPDRs in line with the index.