Immanuel Kant on the Dahmer Case
   ----
   By Michael D. Weiss
In his "Critique of Pure Reason" (1781), Kant holds that
before we perceive something the mind has already shaped and
colored it into something of its own creation. We therefore
can never understand the way things "really" are. In this
context Kant addresses one of the most confusing problems of
criminal law, "caused" mental states. Kant maintains that the
argument over whether a given mental state was caused or free
confuses the way things seem to us and the way things are.
According to Kant, reason can neither prove nor disprove the
existence of either free or caused will.
   Kant provides a practical solution in the form of what he
calls, aptly enough, practical reason. Practical reason
allows the mind to accept things even though it can never
prove them. Kant states, "If men consider . . . the assertion
of reason . . . their state would be one of continuous
vacillation. Today it would be their contention that the
human will is free; tomorrow . . . they would hold freedom is
self deception. . . . If, however, they were summoned to
action, this merely pure reason would, like a dream, at once
cease and they would choose their principles exclusively in
accordance with practical interest."
   Kant proves that in order to make sense of our inner
experiences we must assume that our mental states are freely
chosen. Although all physical objects have a cause, as mental
beings we are always free; our mind makes it that way. Kant
makes clear that the fact that we can think implies freedom.
That we can think proves as a practical matter that we are
free. Asking anything more goes beyond the bounds of what can
be proved.
   This solution neatly answers the problem of Jeffrey
Dahmer. The defense's proof that Mr. Dahmer's intention to do
ghoulish acts was somehow caused by his childhood or biology
is irrelevant. These things are not unique in their ability
to cause mental states. All mental states, as physical
events, have a cause. However, we also must consider Mr.
Dahmer's drive a mental act and we must assume it is free. To
try to prove it was caused or free is a mistake. It all
depends on how we look at it. According to Kant, practically,
logically, it was free.
   What are the implications in the Dahmer case? If Mr.
Dahmer is judged insane he will be sent to a mental hospital
rather than to prison, and could apply for release after a
year. According to his defense attorney, Gerald Boyle, this
is just. He says, `'This was not an evil man, he was a sick
man."
   So what? Our liberal law professors need to reread the
American criminal law. It does not say you must be well to be
guilty, it says you must have intended to do whatever you
did. Trying to decide whether an intention was really free or
caused is philosophically unanswerable and does not belong as
a question in a court of law. Legally and practically he is
guilty. That is enough for philosophy and should be enough
for the court.
   ---
   Mr. Weiss is a lecturer in the philosophy department of
the University of Texas at Austin and articles editor of the
Texas Law Review.