`Call-Sell' Rings Steal Cellular Service,
   Link Arabs to Israel for $18 a Minute
   ----
   By John J. Keller
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The U.S. Secret Service, local police and US West Inc.'s
New Vector cellular-phone company recently broke up a
so-called call-sell operation in Phoenix, Ariz., in January.
The illegal ring was selling service between Arab countries
and Israel, using the U.S. {in this case an apartment in
Phoenix} as a hub. The five people arrested, all foreign
nationals from places such as Jordan, Syria and the West
Bank, charged $18 a minute on each call, according to Jeffrey
Undercoffer, a special agent at the Secret Service.
   Mr. Undercoffer won't comment on pending investigations,
but people familiar with the cellular industry's crackdown
say authorities have thrown a wide net over the U.S. --
including Florida and New Jersey -- and Canada to catch the
thieves. Last July a Palestinian-born American, Frank Amigo,
was convicted in a Houston federal court of using
"unauthorized access devices" and regular landline phone
service to run illegal call-sell operations in Texas and
California.
   The scam artists using cellular phones are tougher to
catch because the equipment is more mobile. "The ring busted
in Phoenix never stayed in one place more than six to eight
days," says a spokesman for the Cellular Telecommunications
Industry Association in Washington. "They were all over the
damn place."
   Todd Young, New Vector's chief investigator, says "Law
enforcement officials believe Frank Amigo and these others
are connected to the PLO and passing it the proceeds." Mr.
Undercoffer denies having any evidence of such a connection,
but he says "none of the money stays in the U.S.; it's
collected and banked in the Middle East."
   Federal law enforcement officials and phone industry
executives differ over how much the illegal operators are
netting. While phone executives won't give an exact number,
the Secret Service says the latest rip-off is bringing
illegal operators more than $100 million a year in revenues,
and that more than 25% of this represents service stolen from
the phone companies, including the long-distance connection
handled by American Telephone  Telegraph Co. and others.
Overall, cellular fraud accounts for about half the more than
$1 billion in total phone service fraud, according to The
Guidry Group, a Houston security consulting firm. This hurts
legitimate users because the losses and costs of
investigating them are ultimately passed on to customers,
says A. Rodman Johnson, Guidry's general counsel.
   The Phoenix ring was caught with 28 cellular phones that
had been illegally programmed to provide free calls over the
US West cellular phone network, investigators confirm. When
police raided the apartment they found seven suitcases, each
holding four cellular phones.
   This is how the scam worked: A person, say a Palestinian
oil worker in Kuwait, wants to call his family in Israel's
occupied territories. He would go to a local agent employed
by the operation in Phoenix; the agent would have the Phoenix
ring call the oil worker at a prearranged time, and the
worker would give the agent the number he wanted to reach in
Israel. The Phoenix ring would then patch the two parties
together through a conference call arranged illegally either
through the local cellular company in the U.S. or a
long-distance company such as ATT, officials said.
   Mr. Undercoffer at the Secret Service says monitoring
disclosed that the Phoenix ring handled more than 57,000
phone calls over a couple of weeks, generating more than
300,000 minutes of usage and $5 million in revenue. All of
this was profit since the service and the phones were stolen.
   He says that monitoring by undercover investigators and
the later arrests showed that the crooked phone company
actually employed operators. Each one had a suitcase
containing four illegally programmed cellular phones. Each
operator, it turned out, was handling four separate phone
conversations simultaneously through his four cellular
phones.
   Stealing service is easy with the right equipment. Calls
from cellular phones are captured and relayed via a network
of radio transmitters, called "cells." Each cellular phone
carries a chip that's programmed with a unique electronic
serial number, or ESN. This ESN, which is also used to
identify and bill the customer, is transmitted via radio to a
cellular phone company's local network switch before the call
is passed to the regular landline phone system. The alleged
crooks employed a radio monitoring device widely used by
cellular-phone technicians to monitor the control channel of
a local cell, investigators say. The monitor was used to read
the phone numbers of legitimate users as they were being
transmitted. The ESNs were then electronically programmed
into the phones used in the call-sell operation.
   "They had literally thousands of electronic serial numbers
of regular customers in notebooks when they were busted,"
says Mr. Undercoffer. He adds that finding such rings is
tough because their phone bills end up being sent to
legitimate cellular customers after a month or more. By that
time the bogus operators have moved to a new location and are
using new stolen serial numbers.
   The Cellular Telecommunications Industry Association and
its member phone companies are stepping up their attack on
the fraud problem, recently boosting the association's
anti-fraud fund to $2.2 million a year from $600,000 and
installing network software that tracks and cuts off the
fraudlent calls. But "these technological solutions are not
overnight panaceas," says Peter Bassermann, president of
Southern New England Telecommunications Corp.'s wireless
business. Indeed, "Fraud's gotten so bad that it's
practically all I work on now," Mr. Undercoffer says. "I take
work home every night."