Olympia  York
   Is Monitored
   By Two Nations
   ---
   Canadian Finance Ministry,
   Bank of England Seek
   To Stabilize Situation
   ----
   By Neil Barsky and John Urquhart
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
His remarks came a day after the Toronto real estate
conglomerate admitted the need to rework nearly $20 billion
in debts. OY's exposure is so large that a collapse of the
company would have an effect on the world's financial
markets.
   Olympia  York found it necessary to restructure its debt
after its Canary Wharf office project in London failed to
meet projections and the commercial paper markets showed
signs of balking at rolling over the company's short term
debt. The company has declined to comment.
   As bankers prepared for the talks with the company, owned
by the Reichmann family, analysts said what happens could
affect the future of a number of large banks throughout the
world.
   "This restructuring is the largest potential problem the
banks are facing right now," said Gary Klesch of Klesch 
Co., a London loan trading specialist. "The size and numbers
of banks are so large, what happens will have tremendous
repercussions for the entire system."
   Mr. Klesch estimates that about 100 banks hold some form
of Olympia  York debt. He said that following reports of a
restructuring over the weekend, there was virtually no demand
for the loans in the secondary market.
   The lenders with the largest exposure to Olympia  York's
debts are Canada's four largest banks and Citicorp, based in
New York, according to analysts familiar with the
conglomerate's loan portfolio.
   Many of these banks' loans, made in the late 1980s when
OY was in its financial prime, no longer have collateral
that covers the amount of the loan, these analysts said.
Therefore the banks, which include Royal Bank of Canada,
Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce, Bank of Nova Scotia and
Bank of Montreal, have the most to lose if a financial
catastrophe struck the real estate company.
   It is unclear whether the U.S. Federal Reserve Bank is
also involved with the OY situation. Fed officials declined
to comment.
   If there is one danger in the coming restructuring of
nearly $20 billion in debts it is that a bank won't agree to
the negotiations, bankers said. They note the example of
Peter Kalikow, a New York real estate developer who was
forced into personal bankruptcy protection after one bank,
European American Bank, declined to go along with a proposed
restructuring.
   Another possible trouble spot could be that banks with
unsecured loans could refuse to go along with a pact unless
their loans get backed up by other banks' security. "What
really starts to be fun is when everyone goes after everyone
else's excess collateral," says Mr. Klesch. "The legal
problems are mindboggling."
   But bankers said their experience in such large
restructurings of the empires of Rupert Murdoch, Donald Trump
and Trammell Crow have prepared many of them for the
posturing that often attends these negotiations. "No one who
does this has not already been there in some way," said a
banker involved in the negotiations. "Most of the people in
the industry understand the magnitude and importance of OY
to the real estate and banking industries."
   The logistics of the restructuring will be enormous,
particularly because few banks are aware of the company's
entire portfolio, yet. OY's real estate holdings are
concentrated in Toronto, New York and London. It also holds
controlling interests in Gulf Canada Resources Ltd. and
Abitibi-Price, one of the world's largest newsprint
companies.
   "The first thing that has to happen is for someone to put
together a data base of the company's assets and debts so
everyone knows what's out there," said Stan Ross, managing
partner of Kenneth Levanthal  Co., an accounting firm that
worked on the financial restructurings of John Portman,
Edward DeBartolo and Trammell Crow. "The fact that it's big
and has multiple banks does not make it an insurmountable
problem."