Economy:
   Customs Steps Up
   Pressure on Honda
   With Tariff Boost
   ----
   By Gregory A. Patterson
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Honda executives sharply criticized the Customs Service
actions. "They are adopting rules that don't make any sense,"
said Scott N. Whitlock, executive vice president of Honda's
U.S. manufacturing operations.
   Separately, Japanese auto makers are concerned that the
administration could acquiesce to congressional proposals for
a tenfold increase in the tariff on imported minivans and
sport utility vehicles. Most of these vehicles now pay the
2.5% tariff assessed on passenger cars.
   The Big Three, led by minivan market leader Chrysler
Corp., and some congressional Democrats want these imported
vans and off-road vehicles classified as trucks and hit with
a 25% duty. A Toyota spokesman said the proposal would add
$4,500 to the retail price of a Toyota Previa minivan.
   A Treasury Department spokesman said the agency is
reviewing congressional proposals to raise the minivan
tariff. But "nothing is imminent," he said.
   Still, it appears the administration, despite the
President's free trade rhetoric, is bowing to pressure from
Congress and Detroit to take action against Japanese auto
makers in the name of protecting U.S. jobs.
   Japanese auto makers are bending, too. Earlier this week,
officials at Toyota, Nissan Motor Corp., and Honda said they
are considering raising prices on their vehicles, in part in
anticipation of moves by the Japanese government to cut
shipments of cars to the U.S.
   Next week, heads of several major U.S. and Japanese auto
makers are expected to meet under the auspices of the
U.S.-Japan Business Council. The latest trade tensions are
likely to be a prime topic of discussion.
   The Customs Service's preliminary decision in the Honda
case represents a big victory for Detroit's Big Three as they
head into further talks with their Japanese counterparts.
   Customs officials wouldn't comment about the case
yesterday. But Honda officials said the agency's view of what
constitutes "domestic" content for tariff purposes narrowed
sharply just a few weeks after Mr. Bush returned from his
disappointing trade mission to Japan.
   For example, Honda officials say, the Customs auditors
ruled that the Civic engine doesn't count as U.S.-made, even
though Honda officials say the 1.6-liter and 1.5-liter engine
is entirely cast and machined in its Anna, Ohio, factory from
U.S. aluminum.
   "We thought when we created a very sophisticated casting
and machining operation that provides very high skill level
jobs that we were doing a good thing," Honda's Mr. Whitlock
said.
   Mr. Whitlock also sent a scathing, six-page letter to
Customs officials Tuesday, appealing to Customs Service
Commissioner Carol B. Hallett to reverse the audit's
findings.
   Industry experts say that if the Honda Civic doesn't pass
the test to be a "domestic" car, then vehicles built by a
GM-Suzuki joint venture factory in Ontario aren't likely to
pass either. That factory "isn't going to make it," said Sean
McAlinden, a University of Michigan auto industry analyst.
Thus, GM will have to pay a tariff as high as 25% on the Geo
Tracker vehicles it sells in the U.S.
   Mr. McAlinden co-authored a report last year highly
critical of Japanese auto makers for inflating claims of
domestic content. But yesterday he said Honda's Canadian cars
met the 50% domestic content standard according to his
research.
   The GM-Suzuki venture also is under audit by Customs. "I'm
absolutely convinced that we don't want to get into a pending
investigation between Honda and the federal government," a GM
spokesman said, adding that the company is awaiting results
of its own Customs audit.
   Canadian trade officials, meanwhile, said they have
"serious concerns" over the Customs audit, and may formally
protest it.
   Under the U.S.-Canada free trade pact, all vehicles made
with at least 50% North American content to pass duty-free
between the U.S. and Canada. Canadian officials fear a
restrictive U.S. Customs policy could discourage Japanese
auto makers from building more factories and employing more
workers in Canada.