Volvo Reports
   Operating Profit
   For 4th Quarter
   ---
   Cost-Cutting Finally Begins
   To Pay Off; Analysts See
   Recovery in Second Half
   ----
   By Stephen D. Moore
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
In line with company policy, the Swedish auto maker didn't
issue a profit forecast for the current year. And Volvo
executives cautioned that quarterly results probably will
remain volatile during much of 1992.
   But continued hefty cost reductions this year and
increased production of the popular new Volvo 850 car model
should spur significant recovery during the second half and
push Volvo firmly in the black for the full year, industry
analysts suggested. "The essence of the story will remain
costcutting in the first half, shifting to increased revenue
later in the year from the new car model and recovery in car
markets," said Philip Ayton, a European auto analyst for
London securities firm Barclays de Zoete Wedd.
   Separately, Volvo Chief Executive Christer Zetterberg said
talks with the Swedish government about the auto maker's
proposed merger with affiliate Procordia AB for 38.7 billion
kronor are in a decisive phase. Mr. Zetterberg said a
settlement probably will be announced within one to two
weeks, but he declined to predict the outcome.
   Most industry analysts now dismiss prospects of a full
Volvo-Procordia merger. Under what many analysts consider the
most probable scenario, Volvo would boost its Procordia
voting stake above 50% from the current 42.7%, assuring
continued stable ownership at the big food and drug
conglomerate. The government, as originally planned, then
would sell its 42.7% Procordia holding as part of a
privatization program.
   Most of Volvo's fourth-quarter profit was its pro-rata
share of profit at a pair of affiliates, Procordia and
Renault S.A., the big French auto maker with which Volvo
forged a strategic alliance two years ago. Operating results
from core Volvo operations rebounded to a profit of 89
million kronor in last year's final quarter from a
year-earlier operating loss of 625 million kronor.
   For the full year, Volvo posted pretax profit of 1.1
billion kronor, compared with a pretax loss of 287 million
kronor the previous year. The comparison is distorted by
major one-time items, however.
   Volvo's profit before tax last year was ballooned by 2
billion kronor in nonrecurring gains from sale of securities.
By contrast, a huge 2.45 billion kronor restructuring charge
covering anticipated costs of the cost-cutting program was
the main reason for 1990's pretax loss.
   Volvo said sales climbed 4.4% in last year's fourth
quarter to 21.67 billion kronor but declined 2%, to 77.22
billion kronor, for the full year, adjusted for acquisitions
and divestments.
   Volvo swung to an operating loss of 1.17 billion kronor
last year from a year-earlier operating profit of 567 million
kronor. Most of the decline reflected a widening of the car
division's operating loss, to 1.7 billion kronor from an 855
million kronor operating loss the previous year.
   Sales of new Volvos tumbled 14% to 309,300 units from
359,600 the previous year. Virtually the entire decline came
in the U.S., Britain and Sweden, Volvo's three biggest
markets, which account for nearly 70% of annual sales.
   The drop in sales volume was a steeper 22% for full-size
Volvo models, the company's most profitable products. Company
executives said profit margins were battered by the cost of
maintaining excess production capacity and further
exacerbated by fierce price wars in the U.S.
   Still, the fourth quarter signalled significant
improvement. The car division's operating loss during the
first three quarters had been 1.5 billion kronor. Mr.
Zetterberg acknowledged signs that the sales decline in major
markets has bottomed out, but he cautioned that evidence of
real recovery of market demand still hasn't surfaced.
   Truck division operating profit plummeted 44% last year to
788 million kronor from 1.41 billion kronor a year earlier.