Letters to the Editor:
   A Concoction of Lies and Distortions
As an aide to President Lyndon Johnson from 1965 until he
left office in January 1969, let me add my voice to those who
are urging you and the House to release all files related to
your investigation of the assassination of John Kennedy and
the Warren Commission report, as well as the executive branch
files relating to the investigation of Teamster president
James Hoffa and the activities of the Kennedy administration
in connection with the assassination attempt against Fidel
Castro.
   The Oliver Stone movie "JFK" is a disgraceful concoction
of lies and distortions designed, among other things, to
leave the impression that there was a massive conspiracy
among all elements of American society -- government,
business, the media -- to kill President Kennedy, and that
one of the conspirators was President Johnson. The movie may
make Mr. Stone and Time-Warner lots of money, but it is still
a big lie.
   The film is particularly offensive with respect to
Johnson, who called the Kennedy assassination "the foulest
deed of our time" and said when he faced a joint session of
Congress shortly thereafter, "All I have I would have given
gladly not to be standing here today." In addition to working
as Lyndon Johnson's closest domestic aide for three and a
half years, I have spent the past four years researching and
writing "The Triumph and Tragedy of Lyndon Johnson."
   Johnson believed, as he said to me, that Fidel Castro was
responsible for Kennedy's assassination. In a reference to
attempts by the Kennedy brothers to assassinate Castro,
Johnson told me, "Kennedy tried to get Castro, but Castro got
Kennedy first." After assuming the presidency, Johnson
ordered a stop to all covert activity to eliminate Castro.
Moreover, LBJ was so convinced that Castro assassinated
Kennedy that he asked the FBI to take special precautions to
protect him and his family from an attempt by Castro on his
own life. Johnson did not agree with the Warren Commission's
report that Lee Harvey Oswald acted alone. In late 1966 and
early 1967, he discussed with me reopening the investigation,
but decided against it because he did not believe it was in
the interests of the country and he did not want to inflict
any additional pain on the Kennedy family.
   Mr. Stokes, you did take the time in a thorough House
inquiry to re-examine the Warren Commission findings and
conduct your own investigation. In these circumstances -- and
particularly with this scurrilous film giving millions of
young Americans a false revisionist history lesson -- I
believe it is imperative that the House open to the public
all the files accumulated in the course of your
investigation.
   Joseph A. Califano Jr.
   New York
   ---
   In dispelling Oliver Stone's myth of the Kennedy
assassination ("`JFK': Truth and Fiction," editorial page,
Jan. 10), Arthur Schlesinger Jr. seeks to perpetuate one of
his own: that JFK would or could have removed U.S. troops
from Vietnam. In recounting the Vietnam policies of the
Kennedy administration, Mr. Schlesinger omits its complicity
in the Diem assassination and the coup d'etat that
destabilized the country, forcing American troops to head off
chaos.
   Defenders of President Kennedy find themselves in the
curious position of arguing that their hero was so
politically obtuse and morally reprehensible that he would
conspire to kill an ally, destabilize a struggling Third
World country and then walk away without any sense of
responsibility. Even JFK's most virulent detractors give him
more credit than that.
   Fifty-eight thousand Americans died for the sins of the
Kennedy administration. The only conspiracy in November 1963
was the one to which the president was a party, not a victim.
   Thomas F. Berner
   New York
   ---
   Mr. Schlesinger argues that President Kennedy's plan to
withdraw 1,000 U.S. advisers by the end of 1963, as part of
"winding down the Cold War," was reversed by Lyndon Johnson
when he signed National Security Action Memorandum 273 on
Nov. 26, 1963, calling, Mr. Schlesinger says, for the
"maintenance of American military programs in Vietnam at
levels as high as before. . . ."
   NSAM 273 does not contain the words "at levels as high."
Perhaps Mr. Schlesinger is thinking of the provision in NSAM
273 that "Programs of military and economic assistance should
be maintained at such levels that their magnitude and
effectiveness in the eyes of the Vietnamese Government do not
fall below the levels sustained by the United States in the
time of the Diem Government." But this same provision, worded
identically, was in McGeorge Bundy's draft of NSAM 273
(declassified in 1991) that had been prepared for Kennedy on
Nov. 21.
   NSAM 273 as approved by Johnson and the Bundy draft for
Kennedy also contained an identical provision reaffirming the
withdrawal plan: "The objectives of the United States with
respect to the withdrawal of U.S. military personnel remain
as stated in the White House statement of October 2, 1963."
   William Conrad Gibbons
   Visiting Professor
   Department of Public Affairs
   George Mason University
   Fairfax, Va.
   (Mr. Gibbons is author of "The U.S. Government and the
Vietnam War.")
   ---
   Mr. Schlesinger unintentionally illustrates the most
significant point of all: "President Kennedy subsequently
told Sen. Mansfield that total withdrawal {from Vietnam} was
the right course, but he could not do it until after the 1964
election. Otherwise, he feared, the Republicans might beat
him in 1964 over the `loss' of Indochina as they had beaten
the Democrats in 1952 over the `loss' of China."
   Ain't it the truth] Whatever may be right for the country;
however many lives might be unnecessarily lost in the
meantime; all is subordinate to the politician holding onto
his office and his power.
   Is it any wonder the public won't swallow the report of
the politicians who made up the Warren Commission?
   Harold C. Bennett
   Morrisville, N.Y.