Concerning Tanks, Gorby's Move
   Was Nice but Yeltsin's Was Better
   ----
   By Judith Valente
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Early last year, Mr. Costa wrote to Mr. Gorbachev, seeking
a donation of wartime artillery to the fledgling Wisconsin
Military History Museum. Mr. Costa promised that whatever the
then-Soviet leader sent would be displayed "out of the
elements and away from vandals." In exchange, he offered to
send Mr. Gorbachev some Wisconsin cheese, sausage, beer and
cherry wine.
   To Mr. Costa's great surprise, Mr. Gorbachev responded
enthusiastically. He ordered his defense aides to scour the
Soviet arsenal for a World War II tank that could be sent to
the museum. They settled on a T-34 model, what a Russian
diplomat calls "a sacred machine that saved many lives"
during the war. Mr. Gorbachev ordered the tank shipped to a
plant in the Ukraine, where seven mechanics worked for three
months restoring it.
   While the folks in Wisconsin waited for their tank, Mr.
Gorbachev was running into trouble at home, including the
August coup, "which I thought would be the end of it," Mr.
Costa says. Still, plans to send the tank to the U.S. somehow
moved ahead.
   On Oct. 24, after intricate negotiations with the State
Department, U.S. Customs Service and the Bureau of Alcohol,
Tobacco and Firearms, the fully restored T-34 arrived at the
port of Milwaukee. An elated Mr. Costa immediately hopped
onto it, waving U.S. and Soviet flags.
   "The first and only Russian tank to reach American soil
has come here in peace," says Mr. Costa. The Pentagon has
taken a hankering to it, too. It asked that the tank be
placed on display at the Patton Museum of Calvary and Armor
in Fort Knox, Ky., among other museums, until the tank's
permanent home at the Wisconsin museum is completed in 1993.
   Yuri Menshikov, a Russian attache in Washington, says Mr.
Gorbachev saw the project as a "way to reach out to ordinary
American citizens." Soviet officials also promised Mr. Costa
a meeting with Mr. Gorbachev. "That's kind of up in the air
now," Mr. Costa says.