ATT Signs Big Contract to Supply
   Former Soviet Republic With Phone Gear
   ----
   By John J. Keller
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
With digital switching systems currently fetching more
than $200 a line, ATT's contract with Kazakhstan would
easily bring the company more than $200 million in revenue
and probably reach "several hundred million dollars," given
the numerous equipment and software upgrades necessary to
offer advanced services, an ATT spokesman said.
   Analysts said the agreement firmly establishes ATT as an
important supplier to the technology-starved former Soviet
republics and Eastern Europe. And it reinforces ATT Chairman
Robert E. Allen's ambitious goal to increase ATT's overseas
business so that it contributes half the company's revenue by
"early in the next decade."
   To get there ATT has reached numerous agreements in the
past year to supply phone gear in developing countries. And
the company has raced in recent months to purchase stakes in
overseas carriers and to build data networks in Europe that
may compete with the entrenched state-owned monopolies. ATT
currently has annual revenue of $63 billion and 317,000
workers. About 24% of ATT's revenue currently comes from
international revenue, and more than 50,000 of ATT's
employees, including those at NCR Corp., work outside the
U.S.
   In just the past six months ATT has signed orders with
Armenia, Ukraine, Russia and has won expanded equipment
orders in Poland and Czechoslovakia. In Ukraine ATT will
actually own a huge chunk of the country's long-distance
network; build and operate the system and supply much of the
equipment.
   "These agreements make ATT a major player" against
entrenched suppliers such as Germany's Siemens AG, France's
Alcatel and Sweden's L.M. Ericsson, said Arthur H. Solomon,
vice president of international telecommunications consulting
at Arthur D. Little Inc., Cambridge, Mass.
   The communists who ran the former Soviet republics and
Eastern Europe "viewed telecommunications as an
uncontrollable tool for dissent," keeping a lid on investment
and leaving most of these regions without adequate phone
service today, Mr. Solomon said.
   "This puts our money where our mouths have been about
globalizing our business," said Randall Tobias, vice chairman
in charge of ATT's international businesses. "Our growth
will take place through a tapestry of lots and lots of (such)
business prospects."
   However, while Kazakhstan and its siblings are virgin
territory representing a potential windfall to equipment and
service providers, ATT may have problems getting paid as the
new customers lack hard currency reserves.
   Kazakhstan could barter for its equipment by trading some
of its vast oil and copper reserves. But ATT's spokesman
would only say the company is looking at various means of
payment, including barter.
   "ATT could recoup payment through its long-distance
communications service business," said Sidney Gorham, senior
analyst at Pyramid Research Inc., Cambridge, Mass. He noted
that in Armenia ATT arranged for the national phone company
to pay for its equipment by increasing ATT's cut of the
revenue from international calls between Armenia and the U.S.
   "This is just one more notch in ATT's strategy to
leverage its services and equipment offerings," Mr. Gorham
said.
   ATT's stock closed yesterday in New York Stock Exchange
composite trading at $39.125 a share, up $1.