This Paleontologist
   Is Breathing Life
   Into Dinosaurs
   ---
   Robert Bakker, on Extinction,
   Distresses His Profession;
   The Perils of Wanderlust
   ----
   By Marj Charlier
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
If that isn't radical enough for you, consider Mr.
Bakker's reason for crawling around on a wind-swept, treeless
bluff here in the high plains of southern Wyoming: He is
searching for clues to disprove one of science's most
currently popular theories -- that dinosaurs were wiped out
en masse after an asteroid fell, suddenly changing the
earth's climate for the colder.
   Mr. Bakker's theory? They were done in because they liked
to travel too much.
   It's just another day at the office for the enfant
terrible of paleontology, whose whole life seems bent on
irking the scientific establishment. Most scientists speak
cautiously, in terms like "the evidence suggests." The brash
Mr. Bakker proclaims his theories with an air of certainty.
Other archaeological expeditions are larded with Ph.D.s and
graduate students from prestigious institutions; Mr. Bakker
mans his with amateurs he refers to as "Mesozoic
bird-watchers." (Mr. Bakker, himself, is equipped with all
the usual, impressive credentials, including a Harvard
doctorate.) While most paleontologists ship their discoveries
to far-off Eastern universities for study and storage, Mr.
Bakker helps local towns build museums to house fossils found
close at hand.
   But though some of his peers dismiss his theories -- and
many abhor his style -- few deny that he is roiling the
prehistoric waters. Mr. Bakker's theories are discussed in
college classes, in textbooks and encyclopedias as
alternative views of Mesozoic life. "Before Bakker came
along, dinosaurs looked like extinct old bones," says Sankar
Chatterjee of Texas Tech University. "With Bakker, dinosaurs
became vibrant, living beings." Well, in a manner of
speaking.
   How he accomplished that is a sore subject in the science
-- so sore, in fact, that some of his peers won't talk about
him. Others complain that he is a showboat, promoting his
notions in the popular press and on TV, not just before they
have been accepted by the paleontology establishment, but, in
some cases, even before they have been published in a
scientific journal.
   Mr. Bakker is clearly annoyed by the criticism. "If I seem
aggressive," he says, "it's because sometimes one gets
impatient with orthodoxy."
   But Mr. Bakker doesn't spend all his time romancing the
media. Mostly, he spends it trying to prove his extinction
theory, which means long hours painstakingly combing the dirt
here on Como Bluff for bones.
   On a current dig, the paleontologist is pushing dirt
around a gray mound with his fingers as his long, kinky hair
drags in the dust and his jeans get dirtier. A few hundred
yards away, James Siegwarth, a physicist with the
government's National Institute of Standards and Technology,
is digging out the vertebra of a huge allosaur, a two-ton
meat-eater of the Jurassic era, after two days of carefully
prodding the dirt with tiny ice picks and paintbrushes. His
work isn't over: It can take up to 200 hours in the lab just
to clean the big bone. "I don't mind," he says. "I guess I
like playing in the dirt."
   In the summer of 1990, Mr. Siegwarth and another dinosaur
buff, Jim Filla, spotted some tiny bones sticking out of the
mudstone here. And, though at least one paleontologist they
approached wasn't interested, when they took the bones to Mr.
Bakker, he promptly declared the find a new species of
dinosaur, named it Drinker (after the early paleontologist
Edward Drinker Cope), and recruited Messrs. Siegwarth and
Filla for a new dig at Como, which had been considered a
played-out site. Since then, the "Como Irregulars," as Mr.
Bakker calls them, have unearthed more than half a dozen
heretofore-undiscovered dinosaurs, with, he hopes, more to
come. "I want to find a voracious, small-minded predator and
name it after the IRS," Mr. Bakker says.
   Mr. Bakker wishes more amateurs would join the hunt. "We
need 10 times, 100 times more weekenders," he says. "The
reason the world knows so much about birds is because there
are thousands of amateur bird-watchers. The reason we know so
little about dinosaurs is there are too few people looking
for them."
   He blames the shortage on pretentious paleontologists who
insist on calling an eye socket "the fossa orbital" and who
generally look down at enthusiastic amateurs. "My science is
low-tech, and it requires sharp eyes and delicate fingers,"
not a knowledge of Latin, says Mr. Bakker. "Ph.D.s are a dead
loss," he adds. "They break things."
   With his weekenders, Mr. Bakker hopes to prove that
dinosaurs didn't die from an asteroid collision. Supporters
of the much-in-vogue asteroid theory argue that a layer of
iridium separating rocks of the Cretaceous and Tertiary
periods was left by an asteroid whose impact created a
nuclear winter-like climatic disaster. That wiped out many
species, including the dinosaurs, says physicist Walter
Alvarez, whose theory this is. His argument: Dinosaurs are
found in rocks laid down before the iridium was deposited,
but not afterward.
   But that doesn't make sense to Mr. Bakker, who contends
that bones would have been found on top of the iridium if the
dinosaurs died after the asteroid collision. And why did the
small and delicate frogs and toads survive the cold and
drought while bigger beasts didn't? Frogs should have bit the
dust first, he says.
   Mr. Bakker's theory is based on the ebb and flow of early
seas. Paleontologists have documented several dinosaur
extinctions in the Mesozoic Era that coincide with periods of
shrinking seas. When the seas ebbed between the Jurassic and
Cretaceous periods, for example, most dinosaurs, including
the brontosaurs, were wiped out. Mr. Bakker calls that
extinction the "dinosaur midlife crisis."
   Mr. Bakker points out that each time the seas receded,
land bridges appeared. Over those bridges, the largest and
most mobile dinosaurs wandered into new territory searching
for food. They also found exotic and deadly new diseases, Mr.
Bakker argues. Itinerant dinosaurs carried new diseases to
alien lands, causing epidemics.
   The bones of the Drinker dinosaur in the rocks at Como
Bluff helped him form this theory. The Drinker apparently was
one of the few species to survive the Jurassic. "The old
money crowd, the brontosaurs, are damn rare here," says Mr.
Bakker, waving his arm over the layer where Drinker bones
have been found. Drinker survived, he believes, because it
was small -- about the size of a turkey -- and thus couldn't
wander far. Neither could frogs and toads.
   In an effort to win skeptical colleagues over to his
notions, Mr. Bakker plans a blitz of papers, which he
illustrates himself. But no matter how his extinction theory
is received, he plans to continue his quest to alter the
world's vision of the prehistoric world. Dinosaur orthodoxy,
he says, was "100% wrong when I was growing up. Now it's only
half wrong."