Business Bulletin:
   A Special Background Report
   On Trends in Industry
   And Finance
   ----
   By Pamela Sebastian
Tiny Hudson, N.H., allows three false alarms before it
charges $25; then it fines $50 for the next mistake. Nassau
County, N.Y., considered imposing a $100 fine, but opted for
permit fees after alarm companies intervened. Montgomery
County, Md., mulls a law requiring all alarm calls to be
routed through a police unit 900 number at $25 per call. But
penalties must be stiff to work or people simply pay rather
than fix their systems. Berkeley, Calif., raised fines in
1991 and false alarms still increased 14%.
   Metallic gift balloons are known offenders: Their bobbing
can set off motion detectors.
                                                                                                       

   FOURTH FLOOR, TATTOOS. Once the badge of bikers, tattoos
go mainstream.
   The model on the cover of this month's Mirabella gazes
over her tattooed shoulder; a recent Vogue shows models with
temporary stenciled "jewelry." Next step: department stores,
says Trusk Communications, London, makers of temporary
tattoos. A U.S. distributor, Milk and Honey Inc. of Santa Fe,
N.M., expects its sales to double 1991 levels as the tattoos
move to big stores. The temporaries sell for $3 to $5 and
last about a week.
   Real tattoos gained favor in recent years due to the
unveiling of markings on celebrities like Cher. But not
everyone is convinced fakes will flourish. Stein Mart Inc., a
regional apparel chain, tests the temporaries in its young
men's area, hoping the items "hit the fad" level. To tattoo
or not to is the question now being mulled by upscale Lord 
Taylor after it orders some of the designs. Meanwhile,
tattoo-maker Trusk introduces big, "armband" versions.
                                                                                                       

   GARLIC SMELLS SWEET to farmers, food companies and
restaurants.
   Thanks to consumers' desire for zesty foods, McCormick 
Co.'s Gilroy Foods unit says its garlic product sales grow
some 20% a year. Food makers "are much more willing to go
beyond meat and potatoes," explains Van Tunstall, Gilroy's
president. What's more, many Americans believe a clove a day
keeps high cholesterol away. The U.S. unit of Germany's
Lichtwer Pharma sold $8 million of its odorless garlic pills
in 1991 and won a temporary halt to sales of similarly
packaged U.S. pills.
   Growers benefit, too. AD Christopher Ranch in California
says demand for fresh garlic grows by 10% a year. Restaurants
reflect the trend by buying more peeled, fresh cloves. Los
Angeles's Spago Restaurant notes it made garlic a star ages
ago. One of Spago's favorites: a chicken entree with
twice-blanched garlic. The Stinking Rose in San Francisco
devotes its entire menu to garlic, using 500 pounds a week.
   Weekend brunch at Stinking Rose offers a Garlic Ramos
Fizz, a frothy cocktail made with orange juice, cream, egg,
gin and garlic syrup.
                                                                                                       

   GIVE US YOUR CEOS. Australia revises a decade-old business
immigration strategy to emphasize savvy, not deep pockets.
Under a new points system, investors and owners of big firms
earn 75 of the needed 105 points to qualify for an Australian
"green card." Under the old system, candidates had to promise
to invest at least $250,000.
                                                                                                       

   NASTY VS. NICE: St. Martin's Press ridicules the popular
"Life's Little Instruction Book" with its takeoff, "Life's
Little Destruction Book." Book one lists niceties such as:
"Always overtip breakfast waitresses." The satire advises:
"Never tip more than a quarter."
                                                                                                       

   THE BUSINESS OF GARBAGE sums up a new B.S. degree at
Rochester Institute of Technology in upstate New York. The
environmental management studies will prepare solid waste
managers who "can keep one eye on the bottom line and one on
the environment," RIT says.
                                                                                                       

   PAPER MAKERS STRUGGLE with overcapacity and undersized
demand.
   Uncoated printing and writing papers are marked for a
price increase soon. List prices for linerboard (used in
boxes) rise, and prices for wood pulp (the origin of all
paper) have firmed, paper makers say. But they are hardly out
of the woods. Newsprint prices are still slammed by deep
discounts and slack demand. Bowater Inc. says prices for
newsprint slip below the fourth quarter despite industry
efforts to curb capacity.
   International Paper Co. is increasing prices on printing
and writing papers by about 8%. "It's a little too early to
tell how much will hold," adds Dana Mead, an IP executive. A
Union Camp Corp. spokesman notes the industry will raise
prices "if the economy moves ahead." Bruce Kirk, an S.G.
Warburg Securities analyst, says discounts erase up to 5%
from list prices.
   A pickup will aid wood prices more than paper, says Mr.
Kirk. At best, paper prices may rise 1% to 3% this year and
wood products could jump 20%.
                                                                                                       

   BRIEFS: Bimini Boatyard Bar and Grill in Fort Lauderdale,
Fla., allows smoking, but only cigarettes, or, as its sign
says, "Close . . . but no cigars." . . . Levana, a New York
kosher restaurant, adds kosher bison to its menu; dinner is
priced at $44.