FAA Lifts Restrictions on Piper Malibu
   But Will Consider New Training Rules
   ----
   By Roy J. Harris Jr.
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Any "airworthiness directive" mandating special training
for sporty non-jet aircraft would be controversial in
aviation circles, where such groups as the Aircraft Owners
and Pilots Association generally have opposed new government
requirements for private pilots, favoring voluntary training
programs instead.
   The official NTSB report on the seven fatal accidents,
which occured between May 1989 and March 1991, isn't expected
to be released until at least next month. In general, though,
investigators have said it will blame a combination of
factors including pilot judgment, training deficiencies, an
automatic-pilot system that is prone to glitches, and weather
conditions. The NTSB -- which says it cooperated with the
FAA's "special certification review," although the FAA study
was conducted separately -- also expects to recommend
modifications in various Malibu system designs. The FAA team
identified four specific designs that it is reviewing for
possible new airworthiness directives.
   In Vero Beach, Fla., Piper Aircraft Corp. applauded the
relaxing of restrictions on the Malibu and on the newer
Mirage version of the six-seat, single-engine piston
aircraft. Piper, which claims to have spent $1 million
cooperating with the government's investigations, has been
operating under Chapter 11 of the federal Bankruptcy Code
since last July. It has said many of its problems stemmed
from potential lenders who feared lawsuits relating to
crashes of the range of planes Piper has built over the
years.
   More than 520 Malibus and Mirages -- which sell for about
$400,000 and have been popular with entrepreneurial
"owner-pilots" -- have been delivered. The FAA ruling will
directly affect the 400 or more planes operated in the U.S.
   M. Stuart Millar, Piper's owner, said the decision by the
FAA "fully supports what has been Piper's claim all along,"
that the airplane is sound, "but a focus is needed on pilot
training and systems familiarity."
   In a statement, Allied-Signal Co., maker of the
Bendix/King autopilot that investigators have sometimes
criticized during their work, said it was "pleased with the
FAA's finding that no major design feature of its Bendix/King
KFC-150 autopilot could be linked to accidents involving the
Piper Malibu."
   Malibu pilots also heralded the FAA ruling. One group of
owners called the Malibu Coalition said the FAA's decision
"vindicates the Malibu aircraft completely." But Langhorne
Bond, a former FAA administrator and Washington lawyer who
represents the group, said he was "very pleased at the strong
emphasis in the FAA report on the area of pilot
qualifications." Many pilots have said they believe pilot
training needs to be stricter for new generations of
sophisticated, complex aircraft such as the Malibu, which has
a pressurized cabin that allows it to fly at an altitude of
25,000 feet, almost as high as jetliners.
   "The truth is, these are even harder to fly than even the
Citation jet," a business aircraft for which pilots need a
special "type-rating," Mr. Bond said. He added that the FAA
traditionally "has extremely permissive rules for pilot
training, for private flying for your own account,"
especially compared with the stiff requirements for winning a
rating as an airline pilot.
   An FAA spokeswoman said that a special type-rating for the
Malibu isn't being considered, but the agency did say that
its new team will study "future rule-making and promoting
improved pilot training in the Malibu and Mirage plus any
other airplanes with this level of high performance."
   Phil Boyer, president of the Aircraft Owners and Pilots
Association, said his organization was pleased that the
restrictions were lifted and added that the AOPA believes "a
type-rating isn't needed for these airplanes" that have
high-performance characteristics. Better training programs by
aircraft manufacturers, along with new pilot requirements
from insurance companies covering aircraft operators, would
be the best way to improve pilot standards, he said.