Enterprise:
   Small Businesses Increasingly Become Targets of Scams
   ---
   Recession Makes More Firms Vulnerable
   To Offers Too Good to Be True
   ----
   By Brent Bowers
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Last April, Joyce Ann and Westley Franklin Meeks were
pleasantly surprised to get a letter from Elite Enterprises
of Memphis saying that their Walnut, Miss., used-car business
had won one of several prizes in a special drawing -- a
Lincoln sedan, a Hawaiian vacation, a 41-inch Sony TV or
$2,000 in cash.
   All they had to do to find out which prize they had won
was to pay $459 for three dozen red-and-black caps imprinted
with the words Frank's Used Cars, the name of the Meekses'
business.
   The letter was followed by a convincing phone pitch by a
salesman who even reminisced about the joys of fishing in a
lake near Walnut. Thus reassured, Mrs. Meeks says she "went
ahead and wrote the check." Luckily, after waiting in vain
for the merchandise, she was able to stop payment.
   A few weeks later, Mrs. Meeks received an almost identical
mailing from a New York City concern that she believes was
the same outfit with a new name. Attempts by this newspaper
to reach both companies were unsuccessful; the telephone
numbers listed on both letters have been disconnected, and
telephone operators couldn't locate either company.
   Frank's Used Cars was the target of one industry that is
thriving in the recession: scam operations that target small
businesses. While consumer fraud gets the headlines, hard
times also are making more business owners vulnerable to
offers that are too good to be true, law enforcers say. And
nationwide, say the experts, one of the fastest-growing scams
is the fake-prize gambit that almost took in the Meekses.
   The frauds are hard to fight. Watching out for last year's
tricks isn't enough because fashions in scams are changing.
Moreover, small-business owners often fall outside the
protection of state consumer laws, and individual losses are
frequently too small to arouse the interest of an attorney
general's office or to justify the cost of a court battle.
   But entrepreneurs who have been fleeced are plenty angry.
Shirley Rooker, president of Call for Action Inc., a national
network of volunteers who work consumer hotlines at local
radio and television stations, says the extent of the problem
shocked her. When her group began accepting calls from small
businesses as well as individuals in late 1990, "it was as
though the bomb burst," she says.
   "We've received thousands of calls in the past year, and
the problem is definitely escalating," Ms. Rooker says.
   Others also report a widespread problem:
   -- Renee Olbright, an investigator with the
consumer-business fair practices division of the Washington
state attorney general's office, says her office gets 20 to
25 calls a week about firms that charge advance fees for
loans that are never made. While only two or three of those
come from small businesses, that is up from "almost zero"
queries a year ago, Ms. Olbright says. She also sees an
increase in fake charities that prey on small businesses for
contributions.
   -- Robert Wieler, a business consultant who helps oversee
the Shop Talk toll-free advice-and-information number of the
National Association for the Self-Employed, says calls
indicate that "small-business fraud is absolutely getting
worse." He surmises that "in desperate times, desperate
people do desperate things."
   -- John Brugger, a spokesman for the U.S. Postal
Inspection Service in Washington, says fraud investigations
in areas that affect small businesses have shot up by 50% or
more over the past four years, with cases involving
advance-fee loans increasing to 60 currently from 40 in 1988
and those involving fraudulent use of financial statements
rising to 100 from 60.
   -- Jane Kusic, owner of the business-consulting firm White
Collar Crime 101, says sales of her handbook outlining
various kinds of illegal practices surged to nearly 6,000
last year from about 1,700 in 1990.
   The scams also are difficult to police because they run in
cycles. Typically, they will disappear from one state and
then suddenly turn up hundreds or thousands of miles away.
Jean Wohlar, consumer protection specialist in the North
Carolina attorney general's office, has noticed a "tremendous
increase" in advance-fee transactions involving small
businesses over the past three months and speculates that a
recent Florida crackdown on phony loan brokers drove many of
them to her state.
   But Dan Parsons, an official with Houston's Better
Business Bureau, says that "99.9%" of the upfront-fee loan
schemes in his city are aimed at consumers. On the other
hand, an increasing number of Houston businesses are getting
hit with questionable billings, and scams that lie dormant
for long periods can "crop up real fast," he says.
   Ms. Rooker of Call for Action says that until recently,
upfront-fee loans were the most common type but that starting
last summer, "prizes became by far and away the No. 1
concern." Prizes in the scams are supposedly worth thousands
of dollars. To claim them, the "winner" need only pay a few
hundred dollars for promotional items for his or her
business. These invariably turn out to be junk, if they are
delivered at all, while the "prizes" -- typically a giant
television set or a vacation cruise -- never materialize.
   Specialists say perpetrators use sophisticated tactics
that sometimes fool even experienced business people. For
instance, many provide "references" who are actually their
collaborators. Mailers of invoices for nonexistent goods or
services often include detailed information, such as copier
identification numbers, that they have obtained from
employees under false pretenses, they say.
   Con artists usually charge per-transaction amounts that
are small enough to escape felony prosecutions, specialists
say. In Texas, for example, "anything under $500 is a
misdemeanor," says NASE's Mr. Wieler. "Anybody can set up a
phone and in a week's time collect $20,000 or $30,000 or
$40,000 and then take off," he says.
   Some specialists say the best remedy would be for more
states to expand their consumer laws to include small
businesses. Meanwhile, the Federal Trade Commission says it
is cracking down on small-business fraud and recently took
several actions against deceptive practices.
   But like death and taxes, fraud is inevitable, law
enforcers say. They urge entrepreneurs to stay alert and hold
onto their wallets. "It's not a prize if you have to pay for
it," Ms. Rooker says. "And if somebody wants an advance fee
for anything, don't pay it."