Australian Dollar's Fall Lifts Exports,
   But Some Economists Warn of Risks
   ----
   By S. Karene Witcher
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
By late last week, the Australian dollar appeared to
settle at about 74 U.S. cents, down 5% from early December,
when it was trading at about 78 U.S. cents. During the same
period, it has declined more than 6% against the yen and
about 4% against the mark. Measured against a basket of
currencies weighted according to Australia's trade, the
Australian dollar has depreciated by about 5.5%.
   Now, except for importers, "just about no one is unhappy
with the decline of the currency," says Bruce Rolph, research
director at Baring Securities (Australia) Ltd. With inflation
at its lowest level in years and the economy mired in a
protracted recession, he adds, what better time to "capture
all the benefits of a lower currency with little of the
costs."
   Still, he and others warn that the currency's decline
risks rekindling inflation. In the short term, the weaker
Australian dollar, which makes imports more expensive, also
could widen Australia's worrisome balance-of-payments
deficit. That, in turn, would add to the country's A$168
billion (US$124.8 billion) foreign debt because much of that
debt is denominated in currencies other than the Australian
dollar.
   More immediate fears, market participants say, have been
aroused by Mr. Keating's promise to announce by early March a
plan to stem rising unemployment by stimulating the economy,
a prelude to national elections to be held next year. Any big
spending plans could spook investors and send the shaky
currency into a free fall, they say.
   To counter any currency collapse, the government could be
forced into a "nasty and vicious circle" of raising interest
rates, which would fuel unemployment, says Stephen Roberts,
an economist at SBC Dominguez Barry Ltd.
   Adds Tom Valentine, a finance specialist at the University
of Technology in Sydney: "The problem is {the Australian
dollar} is in a vulnerable position; any sort of bad news
could set it off."
   Indeed, the currency's position appears to have been so
precarious in recent weeks that the Reserve Bank of Australia
spent a hefty A$2.2 billion to slow the unit's fall in
December and early January, the central bank said Thursday. A
Reserve Bank spokesman said it was the biggest such market
intervention since the global stock market crash in October
1987 rocked the Australian dollar.
   For the latest slide, the Reserve Bank cited "shifts in
relative interest rates, political uncertainty {surrounding
the Labor Party leadership and subsequent fears over Mr.
Keating's spending plans} and widely held expectations of a
further reduction" in domestic interest rates.
   The Reserve Bank and government officials won't comment on
the levels at which they would prefer the Australian dollar
to trade. However, market participants say they think the
government's preference is for the currency to hold at
current levels. Because the weaker currency should boost
exports while discouraging imports, the government is likely
to be pleased with the recent depreciation. Moreover, a
stable Australian dollar at lower levels would in the longer
term foster badly needed business investment.
   With inflation running at about 3.5% and set to fall
further amid sluggish domestic demand, few economists think
that the risk of rekindling inflation is great unless the
currency falls much further. "We have to be careful that the
lower {Australian} dollar doesn't lead to higher inflation in
Australia because that would increase the cost of production
. . . and partially negate the benefits from a lower dollar,"
says Robin Stewardson, chief economist at Broken Hill
Proprietary Co., a steel, oil and mining concern that is
Australia's biggest company.