THE 1993 BUDGET: Bush's Antidote To Recession
   ---
   Many Economists Doubt That Bush Plan
   Will Live Up to Administration Forecasts
   ----
   By Lucinda Harper
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
"It probably won't make that big of a difference," agrees
Fabian Linden, executive director of the Conference Board's
consumer research center. "I don't know how we can improve
the economy. The economy creates its own destiny."
   The Bush plan contains a number of measures designed to
jump start the economy over the next 12 months. It would
order employers to withhold less federal taxes from workers'
paychecks starting almost immediately; accelerate federal
spending; provide a temporary tax break for equipment
purchases; provide a tax credit for first-time home-buyers;
and cut the capital gains tax.
   Together, the measures aren't likely to have as much
effect on the economy as the Federal Reserve's recent cut in
interest rates. They are, however, likely to provide at least
a small push. "The plan will definitely mean more jobs," says
Quinn Mills, a labor professor at Harvard Business School.
   One area in particular where the plan is likely to have an
effect is in the residential real estate market. The $5,000
tax credit for first-time home-buyers "is a stimulus the home
building industry desperately needs," says Kent Colton,
executive vice president of the National Association of Home
Builders. "It will have a significant impact."
   The trade association's current forecast sees 1.2 million
new home starts in 1992. Mr. Colton said if the president's
recovery program is approved by Congress quickly, he
estimates that number will shoot up to 1.4 million new home
starts.
   "Those additional starts will translate into 415,000
additional jobs and more than $20 billion in additional
economic activity," he says.
   Even if the plan does provide some help in the short run,
economists say, it won't address the underlying, long-term
problems that plague the U.S. economy. "It lacks any coherent
strategy or vision. It's kind of hodgepodge," says James
Tobin, retired professor of economics at Yale University.
   Audrey Freedman, labor economist for the Conference Board
in New York, says the plan may ultimately hurt the economy by
resulting in huge new additions to the nation's budget
deficit, which will drain scarce national savings and hurt
investment in the future. "The president needs to cut
military spending by four times more than he proposed and use
all that money to lower the deficit," says Ms. Freedman.
"That's the best thing that could be done to help employment,
productivity and competitiveness."
   Even supply-side analysts, who worry less about the
effects of the budget deficit, are skeptical of Mr. Bush's
plan. Daniel J. Mitchell, senior fellow in political economy
at the Heritage Foundation, a right-wing think tank, says:
"To give people a little more money today at the expense of a
tax refund . . . there's nothing in that that's going to help
create jobs.
   "For the President to say with a straight face that
accelerating spending and altering withholding tables will
stimulate the economy sends a very bad signal about the
degree of economic sophistication in this administration,"
Mr. Mitchell says.