The True Cost of Government
   ----
   By Robert Genetski
In a few cases, Congress and the administration have
decided to hide the true burden of government programs by
ordering businesses to spend the necessary money to comply
with certain edicts. But ordering companies to spend $25
billion to fulfill a public need does not mean that the
public has avoided a $25 billion tax. Businesses today earn
only 4 cents in profit for every dollar of sales. When a
businessman receives the bill for a mandated benefit, the
business must reorganize its operations in order to survive.
This often means layoffs, plants closing and other
cost-cutting moves. Companies that are not able to cut costs
sufficiently to pay for the additional burdens are forced to
close entirely.
   The Clean Air Act and the Americans with Disabilities Act
represent two of the largest hidden tax burdens to hit the
economy in 1991 and 1992. In both of these cases, the
administration and Congress appear to have seriously
underestimated the cost of compliance with these acts. Both
of these acts are worded so vaguely that the regulatory
bodies have raised the cost of compliance far above the
official figures. The numbers presented in the accompanying
table are conservative estimates.
   The official estimate for complying with the Clean Air Act
was put at roughly $25 billion per year. Nongovernmental
estimates of the cost of complying with the act range as high
as $100 billion per year. The table shows a compromise
compliance cost of $25 billion in new compliance expenditures
for 1991 and an additional $25 billion for 1992.
   It appears too that the cost of complying with the
Americans with Disabilities Act will be staggering. The
disabilities act was supposed to cost $2 billion annually,
but depending on how aggressively it is implemented, the cost
of compliance could easily amount to at least $20 billion a
year for the next five years.
   Based on an early sample of plans to alter office
buildings to comply with the Americans with Disabilities Act,
the cost of compliance appears to be close to $5 per square
foot. This figure does not take into account all possible
modifications, but just those that are deemed "reasonable."
   There are an estimated 180,000 square feet in an average
office building. This places the cost of compliance at almost
$1 million per building. There are an estimated nine billion
square feet of office space in the nation, bringing the total
compliance cost nationwide to $45 billion. And that's just
for office space.
   The American Hospital Association, a hospital lobby,
estimates that its members will have to spend $20 billion to
bring hospitals into compliance. We're already at $65 billion
and counting -- and that's before considering the costs for
equipping trains, buses, restaurants, rental cars and public
facilities.
   In addition to the costs of complying with these mandates,
there are legal and administrative costs to consider. In the
case of the Americans with Disabilities Act, vague
terminology virtually assures billions of dollars per year in
legal expenses. No attempt was made to estimate these legal
and administrative expenses.
   None of these calculations should be taken to suggest that
it is somehow wrong or bad to spend money for cleaner air or
to help the disabled. The list of worthy causes has no real
limits. Unfortunately, there are definite limits to the
amount by which tax and regulatory burdens can be raised
without having a serious economic impact. The present
economic situation strongly suggests that the push toward
higher tax and regulatory burdens has had much greater costs
in terms of lost jobs and weaker productivity than most
people had assumed.
   Recent productivity trends clearly support the sense that
something is wrong. But the problem is not that Americans are
"lazy," as a Japanese politician has recently been quoted as
suggesting. Part of the recent weakness in productivity can
be attributed to the recession. Productivity tends to
increase more slowly than normal during recessions and faster
than normal during recoveries.
   Still, adjustments can be made for cyclical developments.
Judging from past experience, the magnitude of the current
recession should have caused actual productivity to fall
approximately 2% below a level consistent with a fully
employed economy. After making such an adjustment, we see
that it becomes readily apparent that U.S. cyclically
adjusted productivity has deteriorated dramatically in recent
years. The record of what we can call underlying productivity
is convincing support for the widespread sense that America's
economic problems are more fundamental than cyclical.
   Each society has its fair share of workers and loafers.
The extent to which those workers improve their productivity
depends far more on the overall economic environment in which
they operate than on their inherent intelligence or
initiative. Tax burdens are an important determinant of that
environment.
   During the period from the late 1970s to 1981,
productivity growth in the U.S. deteriorated dramatically as
tax burdens rose. With the tax cuts of 1982-84, U.S.
productivity growth returned to its long-term average.
Productivity rose by approximately 1.5% per year in the
mid-1980s, and the nation experienced its longest peacetime
expansion. More recently, the resumption of higher
traditional and hidden tax burdens has again brought about a
fundamental deterioration in the nation's productivity trend
and a renewed sense of economic malaise.
   After showing the rest of the world how lower tax rates
could boost productivity and living standards, the U.S.
regressed. Fortunately, the U.S. economy can revive. Layoffs
can be brought to an end and productivity growth restored.
   Many politicians have maintained that such a revival would
mean painful measures. In a sense, they are right. A true
revival would involve major cuts in traditional and hidden
taxes to offset the increased burdens that have occurred.
This, of course, would not be painful for most workers and
businesses -- they would keep more of their income. But it
would be painful for politicians and, in some cases, those
who benefit from regulation, such as the handicapped. Cuts in
traditional taxes or in regulation would mean that
politicians would be forced to recognize that there are
effective limits to what public policy can accomplish.
   In a democracy, the public seldom tolerates poor economic
performance for very long. For those politicians who fail to
recognize the limits to public policy, there will eventually
be political costs as well.
   ---
   Mr. Genetski heads Robert Genetski  Assoc., a
Chicago-based consulting firm.
   ---

                                                                                                       

              Billions of additional dollars
                                                                                                       

                         1988   1989   1990   1991   1992
                                                                                                       

 Payroll Tax             $13.0  $14.0  $10.9  $14.0  $ 7.4
 Changes in Depreciation
   Schedules               4.6   22.3   20.6    4.0      0
 New Taxes, 1987           6.2   ----   ----   ----   ----
 New Taxes, 1989          ----    0.1    5.6   ----   ----
 New Taxes in 1990
   Budget Accord          ----   ----   ----   23.2   10.0
 Higher Deposit
   Insurance Premiums     ----    0.5    1.4    1.8    1.8
 Clean Air Act            ----   ----   ----   25.0   25.0
 Americans With
   Disabilities Act       ----   ----   ----   ----   20.0
 Federal Total            23.8   36.9   38.5   68.0   64.2
 State Taxes              N.A.   N.A.   10.3   15.0   15.0
 Increase in Federal
   and State Total        ----   ----   48.8   83.0   79.2
 Total Increase in
   Burden, 1988-1992      ----   ----   ----   ---- $271.7
                                                                                                       

   N.A.: Not available
   Source: Robert Genetski  Assoc.