Politics  Policy:
   Democrats Blast
   Recovery Plan
   Offered by Bush
   ---
   President Then Lashes Back,
   Challenging Governors
   For Specific Proposals
   ----
   By John Harwood and Timothy Noah
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
An obviously irritated Mr. Bush, who has pledged to
refrain from partisan skirmishing until after the March 20
deadline he set for congressional action, responded by
challenging Gov. Romer to list which bases he would close,
adding: "Or do you want to lay the people off?" He also
issued a shot across the opposition's bow on taxes, asking
testily, "Are you all advocating . . . a tax increase now at
the federal level?"
   The exchange merely underscored what White House spokesman
Marlin Fitzwater acknowledged yesterday: Reaction to the
president's program has been "mixed."
   Indeed, it has been mixed even within the administration.
Over the weekend, Housing Secretary Jack Kemp described some
aspects of Mr. Bush's plan as "gimmicks." After being chided
for his remarks by White House Chief of Staff Samuel Skinner
and Bush-Quayle campaign chairman Robert Teeter, who have
placed GOP unity at a premium as Mr. Bush faces a primary
challenge from conservative commentator Patrick Buchanan, Mr.
Kemp phoned the president Sunday night to apologize,
administration officials said.
   A senior administration official said Mr. Kemp's job was
not in jeopardy, explaining that the housing secretary has
always been outspoken and "can't help himself."
   The dustup at the White House on Monday came on the heels
of partisan wrangling within the normally staid National
Governors' Association over the agenda for the group's winter
meeting, which concludes today. Mr. Romer, who is vice
chairman of the organization, said he had tried
unsuccessfully for a month to get NGA Chairman John Ashcroft,
a Missouri Republican, to schedule a panel on health care and
the economy. Gov. Ashcroft disputed this, but in any case he
only agreed to schedule discussion of these topics when Mr.
Romer forced the issue over the weekend.
   Mr. Ashcroft's reluctance to highlight nettlesome domestic
issues is widely seen as an attempt to shield the White House
from controversy in an election year. "There's no question
John Ashcroft is very loyal and trying to be protective" of
the president, said Delaware Gov. Michael Castle, a
Republican. Mr. Ashcroft denied that he had acted in
consultation with the White House.