Economy:
   Productivity Increased at Rate of 1.1%
   In Fourth Quarter and 0.2% in the Year
   ----
   By Rick Wartzman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
"Just to be in the positive column is remarkable," said
Adrian Dillon, chief economist at Eaton Corp., a Cleveland
manufacturer of transportation and capital-equipment
components. Productivity is defined as output per hour of
work.
   The biggest gains were lodged by the manufacturing sector,
where productivity rose at a 1.5% annual rate in the fourth
quarter and 1.4% for the year.
   Economists said the overall increase by non-farm
businesses reflected aggressive moves by both heavy industry
and service-oriented concerns to cut employment levels. "What
this suggests is that we're adapting very nimbly to changing
economic circumstances," Mr. Dillon said.
   Indeed, while output was unchanged in the fourth quarter,
employment fell 0.9% and the average work week was shortened
0.2%.
   In the near term, "people pay a personal price" because of
these adjustments, noted Robert Dederick, chief economist at
Northern Trust Co. in Chicago. But over the long haul, he
added, they are "beneficial" because companies will be more
competitive when the economy picks up.
   Reductions in hours worked also help keep inflation down,
economists said. During the fourth quarter, in fact, the
government's measure of changes in labor costs and other
payments rose a scant 1%, the smallest jump since 1970.
   Economists generally agree that advancements in
productivity are crucial for a healthy economy. Just
yesterday, the White House asserted in the president's annual
economic report that "the major longrun challenge confronting
the American economy is to increase the nation's rate of
productivity growth." Without such improvement, the report
warned, "America's standard of living will neither keep pace
with the expectations of our citizens nor remain the highest
in the world."
   Productivity for all businesses, including agriculture,
grew at a 1.6% annual rate in the fourth quarter and 0.2% for
the year.
   All of the quarterly figures are adjusted for seasonal
changes. They are often revised later by the government.