Looking for an Enemy in Japan
   ----
   By Kenichi Ohmae
Yes, the U.S. economy is in a recession, but the rhetoric
draws far too bleak a picture. Last September there were
about eight million Americans out of work, 200,000 fewer than
in the 1981 recession. We hear Lee Iacocca complaining that
America is sick, and we wonder if Mr. Iacocca is mistaking
the health of his company for that of the U.S. economy. His
industry is not a microcosm of the whole country. In fact
only around 80,000 of the unemployed Americans worked in the
auto industry.
   It's not unusual for heads of state to take businessmen
with them on foreign visits, but usually they take some
winners. The CEOs who accompanied Mr. Bush didn't include
heads of companies that have been successful in Japan. Where
were Coca-Cola, IBM, Texas Instruments, Procter  Gamble, Sun
Microsystems and Lotus?
   The subject matter of the visit was equally puzzling and
hardly of presidential stature. Were we being visited by a
candidate looking for an "accomplishment?" If so, the trade
promises he took home with him are trivial. Japan pledged,
for example, to buy 20,000 cars -- at about half a billion
dollars -- over three years. When John Akers, the chairman of
IBM, visits his Japanese division he will set much higher
targets. If Mr. Akers told IBM Japan, "You guys must grow by
half a billion dollars over the next three years," they would
all take vacations.
   The Japanese also promised to buy $20 billion in American
auto parts by 1994. This is a meaningless target. Remember,
Bridgestone owns Firestone, Yokohama Tire owns Mohawk, and
Sumitomo Rubber owns Dunlop. These tire companies will buy
from their U.S. subsidiaries and call the purchases
"American." Statistically this is significant because the
tires will be counted as Japanese imports from America. Tires
are auto parts, so how could anyone object?
   In addition, there are 120 Japanese transplants making
auto parts in the U.S., and Japanese auto companies will
start buying more from them. These parts will enter Japan, be
mounted in Japanese cars, and then be exported back to the
U.S. All this will satisfy politicians, bureaucrats and
presidents, but who will we really help? Remember, only 4.6%
of total U.S. unemployment is in the automotive, machine tool
and office and consumer electronics industries where Japan is
an exporter. Let's say, for argument's sake, that Japanese
competition was the cause of all the unemployment in these
sectors. Curing the problem would have scant effect on the
health of the total economy.
   What the president didn't seem to understand last week is
that the rules that link jobs, trade and the economy have
changed. In today's world, if the U.S. economy picks up, the
first thing that happens is that imports increase and jobs
are created in countries such as Mexico and South Korea. More
fundamentally, the current unemployment in the U.S. could be
the result not of a stagnant economy but of increased
efficiency either from technology or better management.
   The Big Three auto makers are unquestionably suffering
because of the recession. But even in the most buoyant
economy, GM is still a very inefficient maker of cars. Last
year it employed more than 400,000 people in the U.S. to make
roughly 4.2 million cars and trucks. In the same year Toyota
employed only 97,000 to produce more than 4.2 million cars
and trucks. GM is cutting 74,000 jobs because it is trying to
modernize and close the gap, not because the economy is slow.
Would Dick Gephardt and other politicians who profess to be
so worried about "competitiveness" rather have GM forgo new
technology and keep the jobs? Being competitive often means
doing better with fewer people.
   This isn't true just in manufacturing. The same is true,
for example, at Sears. It announces 1,000 layoffs and
everyone cries recession. Yet Sears is trying to increase
productivity and service by installing a state-of-the-art
computer cash register and inventory system. Should Sears not
modernize just to keep jobs? If so, what about the
competition from Wal-Mart and other more efficient retailers?
   The strongest companies today are doing better work with
fewer people. President Bush visited the new Toys 'R' Us in
Japan to praise its success in cracking the Japanese market.
He apparently presumed that Toys 'R' Us somehow created jobs
in America. But this company is a champion at job
destruction. It buys massive quantities directly from
manufacturers (half of which are Japanese) and has gigantic
stores with huge economies of scale. It wipes out middle men
and smaller scale toy stores. The success of Toys 'R' Us
means that its competitors lose lots of jobs.
   There is severe competition in the retail business.
Innovative companies such as Toys 'R' Us displace more jobs
than are lost in the manufacturing sector. As much as 86% of
U.S. unemployment comes from the service and construction
sectors. To create jobs, the U.S. needs to "service" more
rather than "manufacture" more.
   It is this kind of economic reality that the president
seemed to ignore. He also ignored the fact that Japan bought
$48 billion from the U.S. in 1990 in addition to $55 billion
produced by American companies in Japan. That makes the
Japanese the world's largest buyers of American goods. Trade
may be imbalanced, but not the access. The reason is that
well-managed companies produce more in the sales market than
in their home country. It's not surprising, then, that two
out of five manufacturing jobs in the U.S. are created by
Japanese transplants. (Maybe the president should have
brought the head of Honda U.S. with him.)
   Perhaps, then, what troubled Japanese most about the
president's visit was that he behaved as if he was
confronting an enemy rather than visiting a friend. The
Japanese and U.S. economies are much more similar and far
more closely linked than Mr. Bush apparently realizes.
   When the U.S. financial system collapsed, ours collapsed
as well. When the U.S. money-center banks and the SLs fell
into deep trouble, so did ours. And for the same reasons.
Both financial systems are plagued by scandals, and both
systems are on the verge of collapse because of bad
real-estate loans and scarce credit. Banks have lost their
role as the primary lenders to industry. Both countries have
produced too many plastic cards, and too many people are on
their way to bankruptcy. That's why there's no buying power.
   We both face a huge threat of unemployment coming from
sectors of our industries that have never faced up to global
competition. For Japan, these industries are chemicals,
distribution, retail, construction and agriculture. For the
U.S., these are smokestack industries.
   In both countries our political leaders are equally
crippled by sentimental attachments to our economic pasts.
Americans think the automobile industry is the essence of
America. Three generations ago it was an industry that was so
powerful that it could put the lid on expansion of the
railways and public transport. Today its residual political
clout is out of proportion to its real contribution to the
financial health of America.
   So too with rice in Japan. Because it was once so, we
Japanese believe that rice is the lifeline of Japan. But we
do not have to grow rice here. Like the Iacoccas of the U.S.,
Japan's rice farmers influence politics, distorting the
economy and crimping the quality of life in our country.
   Maybe our leaders don't need to pay so much attention to
the past. Maybe it doesn't buy them many votes. The citizens
of the U.S. and Japan are becoming more economically literate
every day. In their careful choosing of which products to
buy, consumers are learning more about competitiveness,
global economics and trade than they could by listening to
the blathering of "experts" and politicians. They know a
competitive product when they see one.
   Perhaps it is our leaders who need an economic education.
They need only look at the behavior of consumers. Then they
would know that their real job is to mediate a peace at home
among dying industries, the unemployed and citizens' desire
for better and cheaper products. They must not incite an
economic war between our countries.
   World-wide, sovereignty has shifted from the nation to the
consumer. The end of the cold war signified the triumph of
the consumer -- of the informed man on the street. These same
forces are at work in the U.S. and Japan and should have been
on the agenda for President Bush and Prime Minister Miyazawa.
   ---
   Mr. Ohmae is McKinsey  Co.'s managing partner in Japan.