Mugging of a U.S.
   Jazz Artist Touches
   A Nerve in Tokyo
   ---
   Foreign Community in Japan
   Shocked Over Incident
   And Treatment of Bassist
   ----
   By Christopher J. Chipello
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Residents of this city of 8.4 million walk the streets
late at night without a thought of danger. Locks are flimsy
by U.S. standards. "Most foreigners in Japan drop the kind of
defenses you normally have in America," says the 44-year-old
Mr. Jackson, known to jazz fans for years of work with
keyboard artist Herbie Hancock.
   There isn't any evidence that Mr. Jackson, an
African-American, was attacked because of his nationality or
his race. And while there have been sporadic episodes of
muggings recently in Tokyo and several attempted kidnappings
outside schools, there is no evidence of a major crime wave.
In fact, statistics suggest that crime has ebbed in the past
few years.
   Yet for many foreigners in Tokyo, the mugging of Mr.
Jackson was shocking. For one thing, the attack was only the
beginning of Mr. Jackson's troubles; he subsequently had
difficulties getting a hospital to treat him for his wounds,
and a police officer suggested to his Japanese wife, Yoshiko,
that she not inform the media of the event. These subsequent
incidents touched a nerve, for foreigners frequently find it
difficult to get adequate medical care in Tokyo, and are
occasionally annoyed by a tendency in Japan to sweep certain
problems under the rug.
   For another thing, the sequence of events leading up to
Mr. Jackson's attack demonstrated that when violence does
flare in this tightly controlled society, it can do so with a
vehemence surprising even to crime-jaded Americans. The
incident began when Mr. Jackson came upon a car full of young
toughs who had stopped in the middle of a narrow street,
preventing his van from passing. A couple of them turned and
pointed at Mr. Jackson, laughing. He honked.
   "Honking your horn often leads to trouble," says Toshi
Motoyoshi, deputy police chief in Ichikawa. "The guy in front
gets mad. Sometimes, it escalates to murder." The danger is
particularly great when the car in front is filled with
members of the young hot-rod gangs known as bosozoku or the
older gangsters known as yakuza.
   After Mr. Jackson leaned on his horn, three men got out of
the car and moved around toward his van. As alarming as this
might have been in the U.S., the possibility of being
attacked "was so far out of my mind, I truly thought it was a
game," like switch-the-driver or some other schoolboy prank,
says Mr. Jackson.
   Instead, one of the men went for Mr. Jackson's door, and
the six-foot-two, 286-pound jazzman reacted by forcing the
door out into the man to fend him off. As Mr. Jackson emerged
from his van, however, he was "cold-cocked from behind" by
another man, he says. Then, as he lay on the ground, one of
his assailants tore off Mr. Jackson's glasses and poked him
the eyes. Mr. Jackson was beaten about the head with what
police say apparently was some kind of club.
   Police were alerted to the fracas by a resident at 2:30
a.m., but by the time they responded, no one was at the
scene.
   Mr. Jackson had recovered consciousness and climbed into
his still-idling van. "After that was a blur," he says, in
which he managed to drive the couple of kilometers to his
studio. He collapsed inside, and didn't wake up until late in
the morning. He then went to a nearby private hospital where
he had once stayed during a bout with pneumonia. There, Dr.
Keiko Okuda had Mr. Jackson X-rayed, and placed a splint on
his fractured forearm.
   What transpired next is a matter of some debate. Dr. Okuda
first denied and later confirmed that she had told Yoshiko
Jackson that the chief doctor feared for the hospital's image
if police or gangsters should show up. But she insists that
she said it because she misinterpreted a vague expression of
disapproval by the chief doctor, whose main concerns in fact
were, she says, a lack of beds and of pertinent specialists.
The chief doctor, Hideki Okubo, insists for his part that he
wouldn't hesitate to admit a patient who had been in a fight
if appropriate specialists were on hand. Mr. Jackson
eventually was admitted to a university hospital, and says he
is pleased with his treatment there.
   But Mrs. Jackson, angered by the encounter at the
hospital, told a police detective initially assigned to her
husband's case that she wanted to inform her friends in the
news media about the incident. Mrs. Jackson says the
detective advised against it, because he probably would be
deluged with questions he couldn't answer and she might get
unwelcome calls as well. But that only fired up Mrs. Jackson
even more, and she eventually told the story to a friend at
the national Asahi Shimbun newspaper, which carried a story
on Dec. 18. (The detective has since been transferred, and
Mr. Motoyoshi says it isn't police policy to discourage any
crime victim from speaking to the media.)
   Mr. Motoyoshi says the police are looking into possible
bosozoku suspects, but have no firm leads yet.
   Mr. Jackson is expected to make a complete recovery, and
hopes to be playing his bass again by April or May.