Foreign Exchange:
   Dollar Falls Against Mark on Comments
   About Rates, Rises Compared With Yen
   ----
   By Charlene Lee
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
In early trading in Tokyo Friday, the dollar was at 125.55
yen, up a bit from 125.40 yen at Thursday's close. Meanwhile,
the U.S. currency was trading at 1.5795 marks, up from 1.5735
marks on Thursday.
   Traders pointed out, however, that the dollar's fall
against the German unit was limited by a reluctance among
participants to make major moves ahead of key U.S. employment
data set for release today.
   "I really don't think anybody's carrying big positions
into {today's} numbers," said Jack Stapleton, chief corporate
dealer in New York for Standard Chartered Bank PLC, referring
to the U.S.'s January unemployment rate and non-farm
payrolls.
   The figures, regarded as the first sign of the
effectiveness of the latest discountrate cut in stimulating
the U.S. economy, are expected to determine the dollar's
direction over the next several sessions. The discount rate
was lowered by one percentage point to 3.5% on Dec. 20.
   The mark was underpinned throughout the day against the
dollar and yen on remarks by Bundesbank President Helmut
Schlesinger in yesterday's Wall Street Journal that
effectively ruled out any easing in German rates in the near
future.
   "On the monetary side," Mr. Schlesinger said, "there are
no indications of a loosening. To the contrary, the
information that we have seen since {December} confirms
extraordinarily strong credit expansion without an equally
strong rise in longterm capital formation."
   The remarks by Germany's central bank head also pushed the
mark higher against the yen in cross, or non-dollar, trading.
The dollar's modest strengthening against the yen was the
result of the crosstrading, said John Lyman, senior customer
dealer for the Bank of Tokyo's New York agency.
   Furthermore, Michael Boskin, the White House's chief
economic adviser, repeated the Bush administration's view in
testimony before Congress that the Fed can cut U.S. interest
rates without bringing on new fears of inflation.
   The Schlesinger interview and Mr. Boskin's testimony have
strengthened market speculation on a widening in U.S. and
German interest rates. "It's incredible that in one week
we've gone from looking at a narrowing interest-rate
differential to a widening," observed Mr. Lyman.
   Widening interest-rate differentials typically aid the
currency of the country with the higher rates and hurt the
other country's currency.
   The comments by the German and U.S. officials overshadowed
those made by Bank of Japan Governor Yasushi Mieno earlier
yesterday indicating that Japanese interest rates would
remain stable.
   In an interview, Mr. Mieno said monetary conditions are
"sufficient" to guide Japan's economy into well-balanced
growth. He also maintained a preference for a stable,
strengthening yen in line with economic fundamentals.
   Mr. Mieno said the Group of Seven nations basically have a
consensus that it is desirable for currencies to reflect the
economic fundamentals of their respective nations, and recent
exchange market movements are "roughly" in that direction.
   The market regarded Mr. Mieno's remarks with indifference,
said Standard Chartered's Mr. Stapleton. "I really don't
think the market is focusing on Japanese rates," he said.
   Many in the currency market, however, expect a Bank of
Japan rate cut soon.
   Analysts surveyed expect the U.S. January civilian
unemployment rate to remain stable at 7.1% and non-farm
payrolls to rise 33,000. If the non-farm payrolls figure is
in line with or above expectations, the dollar could gain as
players buy back short, or oversold, dollar positions. The
dollar could also see a boost on growing sentiment of a
recovering U.S. economy.
   But Bank of Tokyo's Mr. Lyman cautions that the market
generally expects the non-farm payrolls figure to be worse
than the one forecast by analysts. If so, he sees the dollar
suffering on snowballing speculation of another Fed easing.