Weyerhaeuser Has
   Large Charges
   In Fourth Quarter
   ----
   By Ken Yamada
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Weyerhaeuser cited the prolonged effect of the recession
on its commercial and residential real estate investments. It
also said new logging restrictions on federal land inhabited
by the endangered Northern spotted owl and the high costs of
upgrading aging mills and complying with environmental laws
would force the closure of several of its 60 mills in the
U.S. Several hundred of its 39,500 employees are expected to
lose their jobs, the company said, and about $14 million was
charged to severance pay and outplacement services.
   The company said $52 million was charged to environmental
clean-up of contaminated water and soil around both operating
and closed plant sites. It also said it set aside $125
million for post-retirement benefits and took a $64 million
income-tax credit, reflecting accounting changes.
   "These actions should put a number of uncertainties behind
us and allow the company to begin 1992 with a clean slate,"
John W. Creighton, Jr., president and chief executive
officer, said in a prepared statement.
   A spokesman added that the latest charges were an attempt
to expedite a restructuring that began in 1989. It "forces us
to bite the bullet on some key business decisions," he said.
"It allows us to get these things behind us quickly."
   In 1991, the industry was felled as housing starts hit a
40-year low amid chronic, excess pulp and paper capacity.
However, companies such as Weyerhaeuser, who own their own
timber holdings, have until now actually benefitted from the
spotted owl flap, which has raised overall prices. Most
industry analysts expect overall improvement this year as the
economy improves, but not until the second half.
   Dan Nelson, an analyst at Ragen McKenzie Inc. in Seattle,
said the company's sweeping changes "show that Weyerhaeuser
is cleaning up its income statement and developing a more
profitable business."
   In New York Stock Exchange trading, Weyerhaeuser closed at
$28.125, up 75 cents.
   But announcement of the charges will probably surprise
some investors. In November, Weyerhaeuser told New York
analysts that fourth-quarter results "could be near
break-even." The latest announcement could hurt investor
confidence in the company, said George Haloulakos, an analyst
at Dain Bosworth Inc. in Seattle. "It is going to put up a
barrier, and the company doesn't need another barrier," he
said.