Technology  Health:
   Robot Could Help
   Quadriplegics Work
   At Jobs in Offices
   ---
   Disabled Pittsburgh Man Uses
   Device to Answer Queries
   On Credit Card Accounts
   ----
   By Joan E. Rigdon
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The technology is timely, since the Americans with
Disabilities Act requires businesses with 25 or more
employees to provide "reasonable accommodation" to disabled
workers by July 26. It's unclear what "reasonable" means. But
companies that can employ quadriplegics will be easily able
to accommodate employees "with less severe disabilities," Ms.
Engelhardt said.
   PNC has hired Scott Ferguson, a 31-year-old who became
quadriplegic after a motorcycle accident 10 years ago, to use
the robot to answer customers' questions about credit card
accounts. He started work Jan. 6. After a decade of living on
Social Security benefits, "I'm a taxpayer," he said.
   At a demonstration, Mr. Ferguson wore a special headset
that allows him to talk to customers on one phone line and
give commands to the robot on another line, so customers
won't hear. To switch lines, Mr. Ferguson nods his head.
Lights on top of his computer terminal remind him whom he's
talking to -- green for the customer and red for the
computer.
   In a simulated call, a customer asked for his credit card
balance and whether the bank received his last payment. Mr.
Ferguson ordered the computer to display the customer's
account on a screen so he could answer the questions. In the
future, PNC plans to have computers handle such routine calls
while Mr. Ferguson handles calls the computer can't answer.
   Using other commands, Mr. Ferguson ordered a robotic arm
on his desk to lift a cup to his lips and to hand a business
card to a bystander.
   It's too early to tell how important the robot will be to
PNC. The company plans to test the robot for a year before
deciding whether to buy more, at an estimated cost of $50,000
each. "We'd hope in the future that the price would come
down," said PNB's chief executive officer, James E. Rohr,
adding that the bank also hopes the robot will be developed
to handle different types of jobs.
   This robot's fate is better than that of the
voice-activated pizza robot, also pioneered by Ms.
Englehardt. The "pizza-bot," which enables quadriplegics to
make pizzas, was tested in October 1990 at a Foxx's Pizza Den
franchise here, but has since been shelved for lack of
funding, Ms. Englehardt said.