Lufthansa Seeking
   To Sell 62% Stake
   In Penta Group
   ----
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
The company has been trying to sell its majority stake in
the loss-making 19-hotel Penta group for several months, the
people close to the company said. They confirmed a report in
this week's Wirtschaftswoche, a weekly business news
magazine, that the Steigenberger group, a German hotel and
hotel management company, is one of the parties interested in
buying Penta.
   The Penta group's problems center mostly on two hotels in
Orlando, Fla., and Atlanta, but the people close to Lufthansa
said the airline, in a policy shift, is considering changing
at least part of its involvement in the hotel business from
outright shareholdings to less risky partnership contracts.
   Lufthansa also holds a 43% stake in the German Kempinski
hotel group, but the people close to the company said it has
no plans to divest itself of that stake.
   Separately, Lufthansa said it plans a far-reaching program
of cost reduction that includes freezing world-wide personnel
totals at end-1991 levels. Lufthansa employs about 50,000
people world-wide.
   The job freeze would mean that the 52% state-owned German
flag carrier is canceling previous plans to boost its global
work force by 5,000 people in 1992, Lufthansa said.
   The company also said it plans to "limit" other operating
costs, especially those for materials.
   A Lufthansa spokesman said the carrier also plans to slow
its previously planned expansion of fleet capacity. As a
result, the company will idle four more of its aircraft,
added to the 14 planes it plans to mothball indefinitely at
airports around the world.
   Lufthansa nonetheless, will take delivery this year of 20
new planes, variously built by Boeing Co. of the U.S. and
Airbus Industrie, the European aircraft consortium.
   There hasn't yet been any indication, however, if the 37
or so aircraft originally on order for future delivery
beginning in 1993 -- mainly Airbuses -- will be affected.