Dow Corning Is Considering Quitting
   Breast-Implant Business, Official Says
   ----
   By Bruce Ingersoll
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The company has been buffeted recently by newspaper
reports about internal documents that, critics contend,
indicate the company put off certain safety studies and
failed to warn plastic surgeons and their patients of
apparent health risks from 1975 through 1985. The company
also faces, as do other implant makers, a proliferation of
liability lawsuits by women seeking millions of dollars in
alleged damages.
   What's more, the Food and Drug Administration is expected
to decide the future of silicone implants next month.
Regulatory options include tight restrictions on the use of
implants or a total ban.
   At a news conference here yesterday, Mr. Rylee also said
that Dow Corning, a joint venture of Dow Chemical Co. and
Corning Inc., is releasing 90 corporate documents, including
the internal memos and minutes on company meetings that have
been detailed in the press lately, as requested by the FDA.
   For the beleaguered company, it was a sudden about-face.
Dow Corning previously had balked at releasing 80 internal
memos and other corporate documents, saying it would make
public only 10 scientific documents concerning, among other
things, animal studies.
   Mr. Rylee said he believed the memos wouldn't answer
questions about the safety of implants. "By releasing this
old internal company correspondence, we will be doing nothing
to address real science and safety issues surrounding breast
implants," he said. "In fact, we are doing nothing more than
fanning the flames created by contingency-fee lawyers who
base their cases against manufacturers not on what the
scientific evidence shows, but on 15-year-old memos that
state one person's opinion about what research should have
been done."
   The FDA has been pressuring the company for several days
to release the documents, which are covered by court secrecy
orders in two product-liability cases against Dow Corning.
The agency plans to present the documents, along with medical
case reports about immune-system disorders among women with
implants, to an FDA advisory panel in mid-February.
   A Dow Corning pull-out would leave just three companies in
the implant industry Bioplasty Inc. of St. Paul, Minn.,
Mentor Corp. and Inamed Corp.'s McGhan Medical Corp. unit,
both of Santa Barbara, Calif.
   Dow Corning's implant business, which accounts for only 1%
of revenues, hasn't been profitable recently, according to
Mr. Rylee. He acknowledged that the business might fare
better in the hands of a "more focused" company whose product
lines aren't so diverse.
   Bristol-Myers Squibb Co.'s Surgitek unit dropped out of
the implant business in September after saying it couldn't
meet an FDA deadline for filing scientific evidence that
showed its products to be safe.
   ---
   Fowler W. Martin contributed to this article.