Bear Stearns Muffs
   Chrysler Financial
   $1 Billion Offering
   ----
   By Michael Siconolfi
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
As a result, investment bankers said, Chrysler has slashed
the size of the offering to about $600 million and will now
sell it in the private placement market, bypassing the public
market and its stricter regulatory guidelines. The private
placement market is largely limited to insurance companies,
pension funds and other big institutions.
   Reached late yesterday, Alan C. Greenberg, Bear Stearns'
chairman, declined to comment, as did Chrysler Financial, a
unit of auto maker Chrysler Corp.
   Securities firms are required by law to offer the tell-all
document known as the prospectus to investors before
releasing detailed information about proposed offerings.
Still, to drum up demand, Wall Street firms often show
marketing material for proposed securities offerings to
clients before receiving formal SEC approval.
   But Bear Stearns' early release of a detailed research
report on the Chrysler securities, which are backed by
automobile loans, frightened off other underwriters. These
firms, including Merrill Lynch  Co. and Shearson Lehman
Brothers Inc., were concerned about potential legal
liability, investment bankers said.
   "The consensus of the co-managers was that there was
significant legal risk in marketing an offering to investors
where there had been pre-marketing," said one person familiar
with the proposed Chrysler deal. The snafu first was reported
in Investment Dealers' Digest and Corporate Financing Week,
among other trade publications.
   SEC officials declined to discuss specifics of the Bear
Stearns incident. But an SEC corporate finance official said
Wall Street investment banks generally are very restricted in
the public statements they can make before a registration
statement becomes effective.
   The deal was priced Friday to yield 0.95 percentage point
more than two-year Treasury notes, a spread that was 0.15
percentage point "wider than they would have come as a public
deal," an institutional investor familiar with the deal said.
"Apparently, only a little more than half of the deal has
sold so far," he said.
   The extra 0.15 percentage point on the reduced offering
amounts to an added cost of nearly $1 million, according to
this investor. That cost "was eaten by Bear Stearns, because
it was clearly their own snafu."
   Chrysler Financial, the financing arm of Chrysler,
increasingly has raised funds through the sale of
asset-backed securities because credit-rating downgrades of
the Chrysler parent have made it more expensive for Chrysler
to sell commercial paper, or short-term IOUs. Since 1990,
Chrysler has sold 21 asset-backed deals, raising $12.14
billion, according to Securities Data Co.