Law:
   Federated, Allied Bankruptcy Lawyer
   Gets Much Credit for Speedy Resolution
   ----
   By Ellen Joan Pollock
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Lawyers involved in the case give much of the credit for
the case's speedy resolution to the companies' counsel David
Heiman, who heads the 55-lawyer bankruptcy practice at Jones,
Day, Reavis  Pogue in Cleveland. Jones Day, with about 1,200
lawyers, has one of the nation's largest bankruptcy groups
and was recently retained to represent the New York Daily
News in its bankruptcy case.
   In most bankruptcies, it is the creditors who drag a
reluctant debtor company toward reorganization. Companies
that file under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code usually
prefer to operate under court protection and postpone paying
their debts. But speed was an early priority of Federated and
Allied's senior managers, who felt the operations were
healthy and could operate profitably if they were able to
shed their onerous debt. It fell to Ronald Tysoe, the
companies' vice chairman, and Mr. Heiman to push creditors
through the proceedings.
   Mr. Heiman, 46 years old, has spent the last two years
shuttling between Jones Day's headquarters in Cleveland and
Cincinnati where he was born and educated. In the bankruptcy
field, which is dominated by some of the legal profession's
most forceful personalities, Mr. Heiman is known for being
cordial and unassuming. "He brings to the table . . . a great
sense of how to work with people and a positiveness about
him," said Dennis Broderick, Allied and Federated's general
counsel.
   In the Federated/Allied case, Mr. Heiman says that he and
senior managers set rigid time schedules that they stuck with
"not withstanding creditor criticisms that we were moving too
fast."
   In fact, the timetable was so ambitious that at times
creditors felt they were being railroaded into accepting the
companies' proposals. It put "creditors in the awkward
position of negotiating against the clock because the debtors
kept saying `we are filing the plan whether or not you agree
to the terms,'" said Ellen R. Werther, counsel to the Allied
bondholders' committee.
   The proceedings moved at such a clip that when Mr. Heiman
submitted preliminary plans for approval by U.S. bankruptcy
Judge J. Vincent Aug Jr. last fall, the filings were missing
important supporting documents and even figures for proposed
settlements, which had not yet been agreed upon by the
parties.
   "It's disconcerting to a lot of people when you get down
to the nitty-gritty of approving the plan and things are done
at such break-neck speed that there are blanks, and errors
and things that still need to be negotiated," says Larry
Gottlieb, the lawyer for Allied's trade creditors.
   Nevertheless Mr. Gottlieb believes his clients will
ultimately benefit from the quick pace. "The trade creditors
just want a company that's strong and able to buy goods from
them at a great clip," he said. "My personal opinion is a lot
of credit goes to Jones Day. They obviously managed the case
very efficiently."
   Although the lawyers involved in the bankruptcy racked up
fees at the rate of roughly $4 million a month, according to
Mr. Gottlieb, the case could have turned into an even bigger
windfall for lawyers if it had lasted longer.
   In many bankruptcies, disputes over everything from the
distribution of assets to procedural issues get litigated at
length and appealed to other courts. The Federated case had
the "makings of something that could have exploded into
litigation Armageddon," says Lewis Rosenbloom, who
represented Federated's trade creditors.
   But Michael Crames, a New York bankruptcy lawyer not
involved in the case, said that Federated and Allied were
able to move expeditiously because they were not encumbered
by the massive litigation which plagued the Manville Corp.
and LTV Corp. bankruptcies. Manville emerged from bankruptcy
after about six years; LTV filed more than five years ago and
has yet to reorganize.
   Litigation was avoided in part because Mr. Heiman sought
to "avoid confrontation at any cost," says Mr. Rosenbloom.
   Mr. Broderick says that Messrs. Heiman and Tysoe were
"noncombative in their approach but firm. That turned out to
be a combination that was effective."
   The most ominous litigation threat came from Allied's
bondholders, who wanted to sue the company for fraudulent
conveyance -- claims involving the allegedly improper
transfer of assets stemming from the leveraged buy-out of the
companies by Campeau Corp. When Judge Aug ordered them not to
file their suit, the bondholders made clear that they
intended to demand that a court-appointed examiner explore
the validity of the claims. Fearful that this would prolong
the proceedings, Mr. Heiman's team began to negotiate in
earnest, according to Ms. Werther.
   Allied bondholders may recover roughly $215 million as a
result of the settlement of those claims. Although that
pleases Ms. Werther, she says that Jones Day's attempts to
rush the proceedings were of "universal concern" to
creditors.
   "At the end of the day that may have been a very effective
strategy," she says. "Time will tell."