Rage, Relief Mark
   Decision by GM
   On Closing Plants
   ---
   Move to Shut Michigan Site
   Sends Message to UAW:
   More Concessions Needed
   ----
   By Christi Harlan and Jacqueline Mitchell
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
For Dwayne Humphries, however, Willow Run's loss was his
gain. GM's decision to close the Michigan plant meant that
Mr. Humphries and 2,800 co-workers at GM's Arlington, Texas,
assembly plant would have jobs building GM's big, rear-drive
cars through the mid-1990s.
   GM's decision to save the Arlington factory sent a stern
message to the leaders of the United Auto Workers union: GM
will save plants when UAW locals agree to scrap
long-established work rules to help GM cut costs, and shut
plants that don't. The company signaled it is continuing to
ask its largest union for concessions. And it's also moving
on to the next step in its winnowing of plants: Consolidating
five midsized-car plants into no more than four.
   "Innovative labor agreements are going to be a part of our
decision making," GM Chairman Robert C. Stempel said at a
news conference. "We've got to use our facilities more
fully."
   That means operating plants around the clock at
straight-time wages instead of overtime rates. It means far
fewer job classifications. It means workers forgoing some
$200 million in unemployment pay by having hourly workers
take a mass vacation in July. And, Mr. Stempel suggested, it
means scaling back wages and benefits in the future.
   In a remark guaranteed to enrage UAW officials, Mr.
Stempel pointedly praised the recent agreement by the
International Union of Electronics workers to grant GM
around-the-clock operations, wage concessions for future
hires and a two-week mass vacation as part of a package to
save 3,100 IUE jobs at a truck plant in Moraine, Ohio.
   "We could use some work rule changes," Mr. Stempel said.
"We were delighted that one of the plants, an IUE plant, in
fact, has decided to recognize that."
   Mr. Stempel said GM has asked the UAW for similar
concessions, but been rebuffed. Indeed, UAW Vice President
Stephen P. Yokich issued an angry statement vowing the union
"has no intention of accepting agreements at GM which lower
the living and working standards of UAW members." He blasted
GM for pitting "plant against plant and community against
community."
   Mr. Stempel rejects the charge that GM is "whipsawing"
plants against each other. But it's clear GM, staggering
under record losses, is resolved to play hardball.
   "It was not an easy decision to consolidate as much as we
have," Mr. Stempel said. "But it has to be done." And that
means more GM plants and more workers will face days like
yesterday.
   At Willow Run, a 58-year-old factory that built B-24
bombers used against Japan in World War II, Mr. Stempel's
death sentence came as a shock. UAW leaders and rank and file
workers had convinced themselves that GM would spare them,
and shut the Texas plant located far from GM's major
suppliers and customers. Workers had even ordered hot dogs
and soda pop for a celebration.
   Instead, they got a wake. Many broke down in tears. Others
blamed the decision on politics, noting that President Bush
is from Texas. Many simply were stunned.
   "I'm trying to find out what we're supposed to do next,"
said William Caincross, a 15-year GM veteran who's still just
33 years old.
   In the shadow of Willow Run's agony, workers and managers
at Arlington said they felt more relief than joy. The only
sign of celebration following the announcement at the plant
was the arrival of a congratulatory bouquet of balloons,
which was sent, according to the delivery woman, by Xerox
Corp.
   "I'm just proud we've got a job," said Pete Higgins, a
shop committeeman at Arlington's UAW Local 276.
   But to survive, Mr. Higgins's local had to walk a fine
line between loyalty to union leaders and "brothers" in
Michigan, and the clear demands of GM management.
   After Mr. Stempel said Dec. 18 that GM would have to close
either Arlington or Willow Run, Arlington's UAW leaders and
workers quickly voted to offer GM the concessions it wanted
to run the factory around the clock. Then, Local 276 leaders
and plant manager Art Hester joined to build a case that
Arlington could produce vehicles at lower cost than Willow
Run, even though it costs GM more to ship parts to the Dallas
suburb than to the Michigan plant.
   That cooperation was a key to Arlington's survival, GM
officials said. "We just sold ourselves," said UAW local
president Dave Perdue. "We didn't go in as union and
management. We went in as one group looking to save our
plant."