Hidden Risks:
   Life Insurers' Loans
   On Real Estate Cause
   Ever-Rising Worries
   ---
   Lax Accounting Rules Keep
   Clients, Investors in Dark
   About Souring Mortgages
   ---
   Gradual Moves to Tighten Up
   ----
   By Neil Barsky and Susan Pulliam
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
"If that tower had been owned by a bank and there was such
a huge question about the lessee's ability to pay, it would
have been written down long ago," says Edward Furash, a
Washington, D.C., consultant. "But because it's an insurance
company, there's a different standard."
   In strong real-estate markets, the differing accounting
standards don't matter much. But with commercial real-estate
values dropping in much of the nation, such accounting
matters have taken on greater urgency. Recently, a string of
surprises from life-insurance companies suggests that their
bookkeeping allows them to hide real-estate problems from
regulators, policyholders and investors. And the resulting
doubts aren't limited to small, undercapitalized insurers.
The credibility of such giants as the life-insurance units of
Aetna and Travelers Corp. is being called into question.
   The industry's lax accounting standards don't necessarily
indicate that its problems will become as serious as those at
banks and savings-and-loan institutions. While banks and SLs
lend mostly to developers before any tenants have been signed
up, life insurers have traditionally played it safer, lending
long term on fully tenanted properties with cash flowing in.
   But that difference no longer gives insurers the breathing
room it once did. They are finding that troubled properties,
which are growing in number, are luring away tenants by
offering bargain-basement leases. Thus, a 90%-leased building
can slide into a 10%-leased situation, resulting in "slow
strangulation" for the insurer holding the mortgage, says
John Klopp, a managing partner with Victor Capital Group, a
real-estate finance company in New York.
   Another change has undermined insurers' traditional
argument that they need less of a cushion for real-estate
losses than do other financial companies because their
liabilities are longer-term. In the 1980s, insurers began
selling billions of dollars of investment products, such as
guaranteed investment contracts, some of which can be
withdrawn at a moment's notice. When insurers are hit by a
"run" by policyholders cashing in their policies to get out
their money, the companies may have to sell off real estate
at a loss. They even may be unable to sell enough real estate
to meet the withdrawal demands.
   That was the case with Mutual Benefit Life Insurance Co.,
which was seized by regulators in July. Indeed, the New
Jersey insurer's problems didn't surface until it told rating
agencies of its real-estate woes, sparking a downgrading of
its financial standing and panic among policyholders.
   Now, rating agencies, after criticism that they have been
too slow to downgrade insurers, are stepping up their
surveillance of the industry. And over the past few months,
insurance regulators, the Securities and Exchange Commission
and the Financial Accounting Standards Board have been slowly
implementing changes that should eventually help bring
insurers' problems into clearer focus.
   But meanwhile, insurance companies, in contrast to banks,
enjoy a slew of accounting advantages that tend to hide
real-estate problems and raise the possibility that they are
worse than they seem.
   Insurers answer to often-overmatched state regulators, who
review their portfolios as infrequently as every three years.
Banks, by comparison, are monitored by federal regulators who
send in examiners whenever they sense a problem.
   The way banks and insurers account for delinquent loans is
different as well. Under generally accepted accounting rules
used by banks, a loan is considered delinquent if 60 days
past due. Insurance accounting lets companies wait 90 days
before the loan is considered delinquent.
   Insurers have other ways of hiding problems. If they hold
both equity and debt on a project, for example, they can keep
the loan current by investing more money without admitting
the loan has gone sour. Even after a borrower is clearly
about to default, as could well happen to Aetna's Southeast
Banking tower loan, insurers can continue to carry the loan
on their books at cost; banks can't.
   Because of this, the reserves set aside by insurance
companies as a percentage of problem real-estate loans are
only a third of the comparable reserves at banks, according
to one study. At mutual insurance companies, which escape SEC
scrutiny because they are owned by policyholders instead of
shareholders, the reserves are even lower. Only about 18 of
the 100 largest life insurers had established any reserves
for regulatory reporting purposes at the end of 1990,
according to John Kleiman, a vice president of Conning  Co.,
a Hartford, Conn., insurance-research firm.
   As a result, the financial community can only guess at the
extent of the industry's real-estate problems, Mr. Kleiman
says. Insurance filings don't "tell you what you need to
know. Any honest observer will tell you that insurance
companies' reporting pales in comparison to other
financial-services companies," he says.
   That is no small problem. Collectively, insurers hold $250
billion in commercial real-estate mortgages. But up to the
moment that New Jersey regulators seized Mutual Benefit Life
last year, the company never had reserved for possibly bad
real-estate investments.
   Analysts warn that more failures or forced mergers may be
looming. But if one relies solely on insurers' regulatory
filings, it is next to impossible to figure out which
portfolios are in the most trouble.
   The insurance industry contends that the companies, on the
whole, have been frank with the public about their
real-estate problems and that insurers' problems aren't as
serious as the banking industry's. "Our delinquency rate was
5.61% in the third quarter of 1991," says a spokesman for the
American Council of Life Insurance. "That is not a happy
position for us to be in, but it's also not catastrophic." By
comparison, he says, bank delinquencies are nearly 14% of
commercial and residential mortgage loans.
   In recent months, the insurance industry has been moving
toward stricter disclosure. The National Association of
Insurance Commissioners has adopted a regulation that will be
phased in starting this year and will force insurers, for the
first time, to set aside reserves for expected real-estate
losses. And, under a recently adopted accounting rule,
publicly held insurers, along with other financial-services
companies, will have to disclose the market value of their
real-estate holdings.
   But analysts say the changes may be too little, too late.
For one thing, the NAIC reforms won't go into full effect
until 1994. Under the new rules, moreover, reserves would be
based on past default experience, not on the quality of
individual loans. Under such a system, Aetna still might not
be required to reserve against its loan on the Southeast
Banking tower, for example.
   The SEC has also got into the act. Last year, it assigned
a task force to look into insurers' reporting and disclosure
practices. The agency apparently wants to bring their
practices more in line with those of banks, which have been
moving toward marking their commercial real-estate portfolios
to current market value.
   The suspicions about insurers were fueled in the 1991
third quarter when Aetna, after the SEC requested information
about the company's real-estate portfolio, disclosed that its
problem loans could rise sharply. The announcement was
particularly dispiriting to stockholders because on numerous
occasions in 1990 and 1991, Aetna's management had reassured
analysts and investors about its real-estate portfolio.
During every quarter last year, however, Aetna set aside
reserves for real estate, each time saying they were at
"appropriate levels."
   In November, however, Aetna raised questions among
investors about how much worse its problems would become when
it disclosed that as much as $1.3 billion of its real-estate
loans could go bad this year. That would increase its
troubled real-estate loans to nearly $4.5 billion, almost 20%
of its $23.5 billion property portfolio. Analysts now believe
that Aetna may need to set aside additional reserves.
   An Aetna spokesman says, however, that "substantially"
less than $1.3 billion will actually turn sour. And he notes
that of the company's current $533 million in real-estate
reserves, $300 million has been set aside to cover future
problems that have not yet developed. "That is more than
adequate for the $1.3 billion of potential problem loans," he
contends.
   Also in November, Travelers disclosed a potentially more
serious development: an SEC inquiry into its reporting and
disclosure practices dating back to January 1988. Sources
familiar with the SEC requests for information say the
inquiry appears to focus on Travelers' disclosure of its
real-estate problems in Texas.
   The real-estate guessing game is even tougher with regard
to mutual companies, which are highly secretive and operate
under few public reporting requirements.
   A typical case concerns Teachers Insurance  Annuity
Association, which has a $20 billion real-estate exposure --
one of the largest of all insurers. The association, which
runs a huge retirement fund mostly for college employees, has
a top-notch credit rating and is considered one of the
sturdiest insurers. But analysts following its investments
note some major problem loans. They cite, for example, a $500
million loan to Mall of America, a Bloomington, Minn.,
project due to open in September in an area saturated with
malls.
   Real-estate analysts also are wondering about the
insurer's investment in Seven World Trade Center, a
two-million-square-foot New York tower housing Salomon
Brothers' headquarters. The building started out with a
mortgage slightly exceeding $300 million, they say. When the
developer, Larry Silverstein, needed money for improvements,
he asked Teachers to lend it to him. Rather than foreclose on
the property, Teachers twice increased its loans; today, its
loans on Seven World Trade top $400 million, and the insurer
is supposed to receive a percentage of the building's profits
above a certain amount. With the building only 80% occupied,
however, it isn't believed to be generating any profit at
all.
   But although the value of the property is believed to be
far less than $400 million, Teachers is carrying the mortgage
as a performing loan. In an identical situation, a bank would
have to establish a reserve. A Teachers' spokesman says it
reserved for bad real-estate mortgages in 1991 and 1990, but
he declines to say how large the reserves were. A spokesman
for Mr. Silverstein declines to comment.
   The mortgage risks worry some observers. "One thing we
should have learned is the lesson from Mutual Benefit," says
Mr. Kleiman of Conning  Co. "They kept insisting their
real-estate problems were under control, too." The
uncertainty about insurers' investments is likely to hang
over the industry as long as the real-estate slump drags on.