Labor Letter:
   A Special News Report on People
   And Their Jobs in Offices,
   Fields and Factories
   ----
   By Albert R. Karr
"It's dismaying that an employer should be required to
waste so much time and money," says a major oil company
benefits executive. Trying to match home-nation pension
accruals for foreign nationals reassigned to the U.S. could
flunk the employer, as would giving full pension accrual to a
woman executive drawing a leave-shortened salary after
returning from a long maternity leave, he notes.
   Companies aren't equipped to fulfill a requirement that
they check for discrimination daily, says consultant Hewitt
Associates.
                                                                                                       

   HOLD THOSE RULES: Putting off the IRS regulations may
help.
   After taking 3 1/2 years to draft the 600-page,
nondiscrimination rules, the tax agency gave most employers
less than four months to comply with them. Now, Senate
Finance Committee Chairman Lloyd Bentsen of Texas and 15
other committee members offer a bill to delay the rules for a
year.
   Some critics hope a delay will mean scrapping the rules.
Meantime, postponing them will let employers analyze them
better, drop excessive benefits and spot flaws, the
Association of Private Pension and Welfare Plans argues.
                                                                                                       

   THE NEW TEAMSTERS engage in a bitter airline organizing
fight.
   The union is opposing a bid by the Association of Flight
Attendants to organize 8,400 Northwest Airlines flight
attendants, who are currently Teamsters. The flight
attendants union notified the National Mediation Board, the
election overseer, of alleged death and injury threats
against flight attendants who back the AFA.
   New Teamsters President Ronald Carey offers a $25,000
reward for evidence leading to the conviction of anyone
acting illegally on either side -- or to anyone proving the
AFA charges were made to influence the election. He says he'd
remove any Teamster proven guilty of such threats, but also
says the AFA allegations seem to be an anti-Teamsters
campaign tactic.
   The AFL-CIO two years ago lifted protection for the
Teamsters against raids by other unions, citing the
Teamsters' own raiding violations.
                                                                                                       

   IN WITH THE NEW: Mr. Carey tossed out the old inauguration
oath for Teamsters leaders, which promised to "promote
harmony" and to turn over union money to successors. He wrote
a new one, pledging to "rid our union of corruption" and not
to forget it's "the members who sent me here."
                                                                                                       

   WAGE RISES GREW in the 1991 fourth quarter. The average
increase in labor contracts signed during the period was 3.8%
in the first year of the pacts and 3.3% a year over their
life. They replaced agreements negotiated in 1988 or 1989
that contained wage hikes averaging 3.2% and 2.8%,
respectively.
                                                                                                       

   DIVERGING TRENDS: Fully eight of nine commercial banks
responding to a consultant William Mercer poll for The Wall
Street Journal will trim staffs this year. But all seven
responding investment banks plan to keep staffs level or
increase them; three others refused to participate in the
survey.
                                                                                                       

   DEFINED BENEFIT pension plans lost favor further in fiscal
1991. IRS figures show 10,064 such plans were terminated, but
only 370 new ones were started. The number of defined
contribution plans was constant, as nearly 12,000 were added
and a like number were terminated.
                                                                                                       

   PUBLIC RELATIONS staffs are affected by changing times.
   In the recession, some companies have trimmed PR staffs,
but have hired outside agencies to do more projects, says
Harland Warner, the Public Relations Society of America's
president-elect. PR folk feel "much more pressure to justify
their existence," says Linda Kammire, head of Drake Beam
Morin's Atlanta office. "What is in is contracting out."
   SmithKline Beecham will hire outside help to tout new
products. When the Discovery Channel acquired the Learning
Channel last May, the cable network's seven PR people took
over work of the Learning Channel's two-person staff, and are
doing even added duty. Reader's Digest Association, which
recently went public, is hiring more PR people to expand
promotion efforts, though.
   Companies use fewer PR people for press conferences and
media contacts; they want more environmental, healthcare and
crisis-management PR, says the trade group's Mr. Warner.
                                                                                                       

   THE CHECKOFF: Charles Thalhimer, until 1986 the owner of
Thalhimer's stores in Richmond, Va., gives $1 million to
United Way Services to help workers recently laid off when
Thalhimer's merged into Hecht's. . . . Comedian Jay Leno will
perform four free shows for the out-of-work at Chicago comedy
clubs this week. . . . A Maryland man pleads guilty to
embezzling $149,000 from small-business pension plans he ran
in Connecticut, bilking clients, friends and relatives,
including his mother.