Canary Wharf Starts
   To Come to Life,
   Dispelling Doubts
   ---
   London Project Wins Praise
   Of Tenants, Commuters
   While Spaces Are Filled
   ----
   By Ken Wells
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
But the train appears quickly and is relatively uncrowded.
The trip to a north London suburb, including connections, is
an uneventful 52 minutes -- slightly above the London
average.
   "I expected worse but it's not bad at all," says Stuart
Gavin, a Canary Wharf fruit vendor who makes a similar
journey five days a week from north London's Kentish Town
district.
   The giant Canary Wharf development, sitting on about 71
acres of property beside the Thames, is only about three
miles east of the center of London. But it is separated from
the city by a web of narrow, clogged streets that make
commuting difficult.
   The project was conceived in the 1980s real estate boom
and was designed to entice London and European businesses
into a technologically sophisticated complex in time to take
advantage of the European effort to dismantle trade barriers.
The first phase of the project has recently been completed,
but additional phases are expected to take about seven more
years.
   Hounded since its inception by hypothetical obstacles --
it will be too big, too far away, too daunting of a commute
-- the development is finally springing to life and shrugging
off many of the doubts about its eventual success. Its
central Cabot Square shops report doing a brisk business. Its
first pub is chockablock with lunchtime patrons. Tourists
have been flocking to the site to take the 46-story elevator
ride to the top of London's tallest building.
   More importantly, developers say they now have lease
commitments for 60% of Canary Wharf's 4.3 million square feet
of space and think 80% isn't unrealistic by year end. Thus,
while the project still faces real problems -- transport and
lingering depression in London's real estate market among
them -- there is little doubt now that "over time it will be
successful," says David Chippendale, a London property
analyst for Applied Property Research.
   For one thing, the project's tenants are singing its
praises. "The move here has given our whole organization a
bit of a buzz, really," says Harry Reid, chairman of Ogilvy 
Mather Europe, a WPP Group unit that fled crowded West End
London offices for Canary Wharf.
   "I like it here," agrees Wendy Gilley, a clerk at a Canary
Wharf card shop. "It's already very cosmopolitan." Neither
finds the commute, on most days, daunting.
   Such statements are music to the ears of Olympia  York
Developments Ltd., which is hoping that positive word of
mouth will prove invaluable in its still-Herculean task of
filling the project to capacity.
   Canary Wharf, part of the vast East London Docklands
renovation, is being completed at a time of unprecedented
glut in London's commercial real estate market. "There is
more availability of space in the commercial market now in
London than probably at any other time it its history," says
Mr. Chippendale.
   As a result, Olympia  York is widely known to have
offered incentives -- including two-year, rent-free periods
and agreements to take over existing leases -- in order to
lure some clients into long-term leases. Though the company
won't discuss such arrangements, "the thing we don't know is
the degree of risk and exposure that {Olympia  York} face on
the back of the deals they have done," says Mr. Chippendale.
   By one estimate, for example, Olympia  York may be
responsible for re-renting 500,000 square feet of pricey
London commercial space vacated by tenants moving to Canary
Wharf. Furthermore, the project was launched under the
rationale that it would be able to offer rental rates
substantially lower than central London rates. But with the
crash in the London market, that spread, at least for now,
has narrowed considerably.
   And while transportation has gotten better, it is far from
perfect. A reasonably efficient water taxi now plies the
Thames between central London and Canary Wharf. But it is
expensive to ride, and is being subsidized by Olympia  York
to keep it operating. The light railway has shaken off many
of its early quirks and generally runs on time these days.
But as tenants increase, there is the chance the line will be
overwhelmed. This is particularly true since a vital
extension of London's Jubilee Line subway system is still
four to five years away from completion.
   On the other hand, most Canary Wharf roadworks are already
completed, and a tunnel, to ease a remaining bottleneck into
central London, is nearing completion.
   "People come expecting the worst and find it's not so
bad," contends Michael Dennis, Canary Wharf's chief executive
officer. "If all the transport that had been promised had
been in place at the promised time, we'd have very little
space available now."