All the News?
   Many Journalists See
   A Growing Reluctance
   To Criticize Advertisers
   ---
   They Say Some Newspapers,
   Suffering Tough Times,
   Are Softening Coverage
   ---
   To Others, the Issue is Fairness
   ----
   By G. Pascal Zachary
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Mr. Collins is principal author of a forthcoming report by
the nonprofit Center for the Study of Commercialism that
examines more than 50 cases of stories allegedly being killed
or downplayed by the news media to appease advertisers. The
report, funded by the J. Roderick MacArthur Foundation,
concludes that advertiser favoritism is widespread and that
"the problem has been worsened by the recession," Mr. Collins
says.
   Advertisers sense such a change, too -- but see it in a
very different light. In Portland, Ore., real-estate agents
"have enough trouble with the economy without getting bad
press," says Doris Kiehl of the local Board of Realtors. She
says the Oregonian, Portland's only daily, is more responsive
to Realtor complaints now than in the past, even toning down
"bad news" stories and headlines in later editions at Ms.
Kiehl's request.
   "I would not want to publicly say she's wrong," says Max
Taylor, the Oregonian's director of classified advertising
and the person Ms. Kiehl gets in touch with to air
complaints. Mr. Taylor says he can't recall specific
instances, but says in general he relays advertiser
complaints directly to news editors. "The newsroom is always
willing to listen, and always wants to improve a story if it
can," he says. Peter Thompson, the Oregonian's managing
editor, agrees that he lends an ear, but denies he protects
advertisers with changes in late-edition copy or headlines.
   Indeed, editors see themselves as simply being fair,
responsive and sensitive. "We try not to be arrogant," says
Leonard Downie, executive editor of the Washington Post. "We
are just as responsive, but no more responsive, to advertiser
complaints. . . . They have a right to talk to us." Says Paul
E. Steiger, managing editor of The Wall Street Journal: "At
The Journal, we try to hear out any reader who has a
complaint about our coverage, whether or not that reader is
an advertiser."
   Formally, newspapers say the issue is clear-cut:
Advertisers don't get any special treatment. And despite the
recession, newspapers seem to have a much better track record
than magazines, where some editors have even resorted to
accepting payments from advertisers to run positive stories
about them. But in interviews, both happy advertisers and
concerned journalists say several converging forces have
meant softer coverage of advertisers.
   One of the worst advertising slumps in 30 years has left
many editors and publishers deeply worried about further
losses. Many advertisers, with businesses buffeted by the
recession, are quicker to complain about bad news-and have an
increasing number of alternatives, such as direct mail and
cable TV, if they're not satisfied.
   Meantime, the traditional barrier between the newsroom and
the advertising department is breaking down as publishers
encourage greater cooperation among their managers, arguing
that it just doesn't make sense for people in the same
organization to be at odds.
   Self-censorship benefiting advertisers seems most
significant at smaller, more economically vulnerable
newspapers. But medium-size and even large newspapers, such
as the Oregonian, which has the nation's 29th biggest
circulation, also have sometimes diluted reporting to protect
advertisers. Concern over the issue of news independence is
far less visible at America's most prestigious newspapers,
though still a subject of debate.
   Attitudes about coverage of business reflect the reality
that businesses are advertisers. "When you write about
government, the attitude {of editors} tends to be `no holds
barred.' When you write about business, the attitude tends to
be one of caution. And for businesses who happen to be
advertisers, the caution turns frequently into timidity,"
says Bill Lazarus, a prize-winning investigative reporter at
the Casper Star-Tribune in Wyoming who was fired last August.
Mr. Lazarus believes he was fired because he wrote critical
articles about a hospital that was a big advertiser; the
newspaper says it fired Mr. Lazarus, but not because of his
hospital coverage.
   Peter Prichard, editor of USA Today, says his concern
about ensuring fair coverage has increased recently as
advertisers have stepped up their complaints about negative
or critical stories. "I would readily admit we're sensitive
about copy with some of our advertisers who've complained,"
he says. "I read all car coverage very carefully . . .
because they've complained a lot."
   Mr. Prichard adds, "I suspect advertisers have gotten more
aggressive on this issue, particularly car people, because
business is so poor," although he says he has not been swayed
by the pressure. "I try to treat them {an advertiser} like
any other concerned, interested reader," he says. Mr.
Prichard also notes that "the ad department ought to have a
say in some kind of strategies to attract more advertisers. .
. . It's a trend in newspapers. I do think you have to be
careful about it."
   Several years ago, editors of Times-Mirror Co.'s Hartford
Courant didn't spend a lot of time worrying about the content
of stories about car-buying. All that changed in the winter
of 1990, when car dealers began an ad boycott because of an
article that urged "buyer wariness" of dealers. The dealers
got an apology from the paper's publisher, and Michael
Waller, the paper's editor, says for months he read any
stories about auto dealers extra carefully. He defends this
as sound journalistic practice. "The bottom line: It's
sensitive, so maybe you better pay more attention," he says.
   When the Courant itself reported the apology, some readers
were outraged. "If the consumer story made the majority of
car dealers look like a bunch of shysters, it is not an image
just now sprung on the public. It's of their own making," one
reader wrote. Commanded another: "Let the auto dealers pull
their ads from the Courant. It's economic blackmail, but the
Courant must think about its readers."
   Car dealers, however, are pleased. Since the boycott, "I
haven't seen a negative article written about auto dealers,"
says Mark Mitchell, an auto dealer in suburban Simsbury,
Conn. "Consumer reporting is virtually nonexistent now."
   Mr. Waller says dealers still complain about the Courant's
coverage even when it is "routine," and the paper still runs
articles that anger dealers. He denies any self-censorship,
but couldn't think of any critical pieces published about
auto dealers over the past year. He also says the paper
hasn't offered any advice to car buyers "lately" and isn't
likely to, especially during periods of intense auto
promotions. "I'm not real hot to write a story {about how}
you ought to beware of getting screwed by auto dealers," he
says. "Is it really news?"
   Bud Orme, a spokesman for the National Automobile Dealers
Association, says in an interview that "there used to be a
very thick line between advertising and editorial. That's no
longer the case. It's a thin line now." With such a bad ad
slump, editors "aren't going to die for principle." Mr. Orme
was quoted in a September article of The Washington
Journalism Review that concluded, based on examples from a
half-dozen newspapers, that there is "mounting evidence" of
advertisers successfully pressuring papers "into more
positive coverage of their activities."
   Few reporters will grumble about this publicly, for fear
of being fired at a time when there's already a glut of good
journalists on the market. "I don't want to speak out about
it because I don't like standing in an unemployment line,"
says a retail reporter at a midsize suburban daily in the
West who feels rising pressure to write positively about
advertisers.
   Publishers and editors defend careful editing practices as
attempts at fairness and balance. They say some poorly
regarded newspapers have always censored reporters, so such
occurrences aren't news. It's often unclear why some subjects
are avoided and some articles softened or discarded.
Reporters, who are paid to be skeptical, may be instinctively
suspicious when critical points are removed from articles on
advertisers even if such deletions are warranted. All parties
agree that if reporters hype stories, they should be toned
down.
   Still, "there is a flood tide of shift in the way most
owners and managers of newspapers discuss the relationship
between the news and the advertiser," says Bill Kovach,
curator of the Nieman Foundation and formerly the top editor
of the Atlanta Constitution. He says he hears growing talk
among editors of the need for "advertiser-friendly"
newspapers. "It is not a secret," he says. "This is happening
all across the country."
   Mr. Kovach declines to identify specific instances, but
says that during his tenure in Atlanta in the late 1980s, he
faced "increasing pressure to accommodate the needs of
advertisers, as perceived by the {newspaper's} publisher and
business side."
   Mr. Kovach's replacement in Atlanta, Ron Martin, says, "I
have no idea what he could mean. . . . I feel no pressure, no
increasing pressure" to accommodate advertisers.
   Cheryl Hall, business editor of the Dallas Morning News,
gave a seminar on editing business stories last year at the
American Press Institute to about 30 editors, as she has for
five years. Although she hasn't had problems herself, she
says, she was struck, "more than I can remember in past
sessions," by complaints of pressure to lighten up on
advertisers.
   The Oregonian, the largest circulation daily in Oregon
(330,000 daily, 440,000 Sunday) and a very profitable part of
the Newhouse chain, destroyed tens of thousands of copies of
a Sunday edition in 1989 after someone in advertising sales
objected to editors about a story in the real-estate section
on selling a home without the help of a broker. The article,
the sort that might anger brokers who sell homes for a
commission and advertise heavily, was killed. Later, the
editor who decided to publish the piece, Brian Cour, was
demoted.
   Mr. Thompson, the managing editor, defends the newspaper's
actions, saying the article wasn't "relevant" to his readers
and slipped into the paper "through a lack of editorial
monitoring, which has since been taken care of." He agrees
that Mr. Cour was demoted because of the article. Mr.
Thompson also explains that, days before the article
appeared, he and the Oregonian's business editor had met with
a group of real-estate agents to assuage hard feelings
resulting from past articles, "so the timing of it could not
have been worse in view of the assurances we'd made."
   In March of last year, Mr. Thompson killed another article
that might upset a major advertiser, this one a column
criticizing Fred Meyer, a big retailer. The action dismayed
many staffers, who felt the column was killed, just before
press time, because it accused Fred Meyer of sullying what
the column called "its just folks image with the public" by
closing two neighborhood stores to boost profits. Mr.
Thompson says he scrapped the article because it "was an
inadequate piece of journalism," not to protect an
advertiser.
   After that incident, Mr. Thompson met individually with
small groups of reporters and editors to reassure them that
the newspaper wasn't going soft on advertisers. He vowed to
stiffen rules against meddling by advertising salespeople in
editorial affairs. But some editors concede that the
incidents at the Oregonian may have fostered "self-editing in
the newsroom," says Ellen Heltzel, a features editor at the
newspaper. "On our own we may stay away from something
sensitive," she says.
   At the Bellevue Journal-American, a suburban Seattle-area
daily that is one of the fastest growing papers in the
country, Editor John Perry fired his business editor in 1990
in a dispute over how much coverage to give to labor problems
at Nordstrom, a big retailer that had recently sharply
increased its advertising with the Journal-American. The
business editor wanted more prominent coverage, Mr. Perry
less. "Certainly when a story about a large advertiser comes
up, it crosses my thinking. But it doesn't change the way I
cover it," Mr. Perry says. He complains that some reporters
want to "penalize an advertiser just because they're an
advertiser."
   In January 1991, the Daily Spectrum of St. George, Utah,
apologized for telling readers how to haggle when shopping
for a car. Auto advertisers boycotted the paper for six
months despite the apology, partly to protest a rate
increase. Asked whether the Spectrum now shies away from
offering advice that offends advertisers, Publisher Donald
Hogun says, "Maybe that's the case." Currently, the
News-Tribune of Duluth, Minn., faces a revolt by real-estate
advertisers over a January how-to column on selling your own
home -- even though the newspaper publicly apologized for the
column and discontinued it.
   The extreme sensitivity toward advertisers is occurring at
a time when most newspapers have improved their coverage of
business in response to reader interest. That may account for
some of the increase in conflict. What's more, many
newspapers, even the ones accused of lapses, can point to
stories in which they reported advertisers' warts. The
Oregonian, for example, has published some stories in recent
years exposing "red-lining" by local banks and shady dealings
involving a charity golf game co-sponsored by Fred Meyer, the
retailer. Many newspapers have covered R.H. Macy  Co.'s
current financial troubles in detail, even though the chain
is a big advertiser.
   And the Seattle Times didn't bend under blunt criticism
from Nordstrom, one of its biggest advertisers, after
publishing a string of articles about the retailer's labor
problems. Nordstrom sharply reduced its ads, though it says
it did so for business reasons, not to retaliate. "You can't
just sell your soul in little bits and pieces and expect that
readers will understand it," says Michael Fancher, the
Seattle Times's executive editor. "A lot of newspapers don't
understand that."
   However, at many newspapers, stories about major
advertisers get particular scrutiny by top editors, a
practice that some reporters say they find intimidating. Top
editors defend the practice, saying it is prudent. "You just
want to make sure that what you put in the paper is
defensible," says Douglas Clifton, executive editor of the
Miami Herald, who says he reviews articles about advertisers
along with other "highly visible" stories. Mr. Clifton says
the practice may frighten some reporters, but "that's not why
I do it. I read a lot of stories, so I don't think it's like
a visit from Jesus Christ when I talk with reporters."
   At the Indianapolis Daily Star, Managing Editor Frank
Caperton reviewed all stories about L.S. Ayres  Co., the
paper's largest advertiser, for a period of time last year.
The newspaper didn't shrink from coverage of the
department-store chain, and Mr. Caperton says he doesn't
believe the coverage was altered or toned down because of his
interest.
   "We try to be open with everyone who says we've been
unfair," the editor says. "But I am a human being, and I do
know Ayers is a major advertiser and it's not in our interest
to have poor relations with them."