Law:
   State Court Puts New Restrictions
   On Husband-and-Wife Lawyers
   ----
   By Christi Harlan
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
"It is clear that if there be impropriety in spouses
representing courtroom adversaries, the disqualification
extends to the partners and associates of the spouse," the
12th District Court of Appeals in Tyler, Texas, wrote in
December. The court then directed a trial judge to disqualify
a defense lawyer in a criminal case because his opposing
counsel is married to the defense lawyer's law partner.
   Though the ruling has little direct impact as a precedent,
the issues it raises are so common that they set off alarms
in law firms and two-lawyer couples.
   "This could put a lot of tension in the bedroom," says
Michael Wall, a partner in Houston law firm Hutcheson 
Grundy and husband of the general counsel at Zilkha Energy
Co. in Houston. Mr. Wall says his firm already declines
assignments that would involve his wife's employer but also
is considering addressing the ruling in its in-house
conflict-of-interest policy.
   "The practical implications, at least to larger firms and
larger cities, would be horrendous," says Rex Heinke, a
partner in the 650-lawyer Los Angeles firm Gibson, Dunn 
Crutcher. His wife is a partner at another big Los Angeles
law firm. If entire law firms can be thrown off cases because
of spousal conflicts, he says, it "would be devastating for a
lot of clients."
   It could also be devastating for a lot of couples. Though
only 21% of U.S. lawyers are women, the percentage is
growing, and as in other professions, lawyers are often drawn
to their own kind. "Should the woman forgo her career?" asks
Dallas lawyer John Barr, whose wife, Celia, is an assistant
district attorney in the city. "Should the man forgo his
career? We're really in a hell of a position as lawyers.
We're not as free as some other professionals."
   Mr. Barr and other lawyers say they find it hard to argue
with the appeals court's reasoning because it covers three
things near and dear to the profession's heart: the Bill of
Rights, the adversary system of justice and money. That's why
the ruling may have an impact beyond the 19 east Texas
counties in the appeals court's territory.
   Pitting a defense lawyer against his partner's spouse in
the courtroom "appears to compromise and severely limit the
defendant's constitutional right to effective assistance of
counsel," wrote Tom B. Ramey Jr., chief justice of the
appeals court. Though the Sixth Amendment's right to counsel
is typically applied in criminal cases, court rulings and
lawyers' codes of ethics have incorporated the right in civil
cases in Texas and other states. That gives the appeals
court's reasoning broader application, say Mr. Wall and other
civil lawyers.
   The appeals court also said conflict from indirect marital
ties could strain the appearance of independence among
adversaries in the U.S. legal system. "The cornerstone of
this system is effective, independent representation of the
respective litigants by professional counsel," Justice Ramey
wrote. "Public confidence in the adversary system is subject
to erosion."
   The final bugaboo, the appeals court said, is money. In
this Texas case, the defense lawyer's partner stood to gain
from both his wife's salary as district attorney and his
partner's fee as defense counsel. The appearance of a
financial conflict of interest is reason enough to prohibit a
lawyer's spouse and law partners from taking opposite sides
of a case, the court said.
   The appeals court directed state District Judge Bennie C.
Boles to excuse Victor Haley from representing a defendant in
a drug case prosecuted by his partner's wife, Karren Kirkley
Price, district attorney of Shelby County, Texas.
   Ms. Price says she joined Mr. Haley in his request to be
excused because of the apparent conflict of interest. "I felt
ethically obligated not to plea-bargain" in this case, she
says, citing the possibility that for her to agree to a
lesser criminal charge would be seen as a favor to her
husband's law partner.
   "It's black and white to me," Ms. Price says. "A strict
interpretation of the rule would apply this to civil firms. .
. . I don't see how anyone who has ever sat for an ethics
course can see it any other way."