Marketing  Media:
   ATT Still Waives
   Credit Card Fees,
   But `Selectively'
   ----
   By Peter Pae
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
But last March, ATT, which is now the third-largest
credit card issuer in the U.S., let the charter membership
program expire as scheduled and announced that it was tacking
a $20 annual fee to new cardholders.
   Yesterday, ATT Universal Card officials acknowledged,
however, that the company was "selectively" offering cards
with no annual fee for the first year to new customers and
waiving the fees for existing cardholders who request it.
   "We're pursuing a strategy that goes after pockets of
opportunity," said F. Alan Schultheis, head of marketing for
ATT Universal Card. He then asserted, "From a competitive
perspective its an advantage for us." Although ATT officials
maintained solicitations of new accounts with the
no-annual-fee feature were small, several industry observers
noted that it was widespread.
   Indeed, ATT's move to quietly offer no-fee cards is
another thorn for competitors who have been under increasing
pressure to lower rates and fees. Card issuers, who rely on
annual fees for about 10% to 15% of their profits, had been
relieved when ATT let the no-fee-for-life program expire
last year. Partly due to ATT's entry, a number of large
issuers such as the top two, Citicorp and Chase Manhattan
Corp., have had to quietly lower or eliminate annual fees for
some customers. As well, American Express Co. has selectively
offered customers a second card for free. With the latest
acknowledgment by ATT, such practices are likely to
continue.
   "It's something that they aren't going to emphasize," said
David Robertson, president of the Nilson Report, a Santa
Monica, Calif., newsletter for the card industry. "But in
this environment in which the opportunities are few to get
cardholders attention, the no-annual fee is a standard."
   That isn't all good news for consumers. The continuing
pressure on annual fees is expected to keep banks from
lowering interest rates, the largest source of its profits.
Although a number of smaller issuers have tried to take
market share by offering credit cards with rates as low as
8.5%, the largest issuers continue to charge about 19.8%.
   But ATT's latest no-annual-fee offer could also backfire.
Such marketing strategy could become a losing cause when it
is publicly known, particularly among cardholders who are
paying the $20 annual fee. ATT officials acknowledged that
it was anticipating more calls from existing and new
cardholders as a result of increased publicity.
   ATT officials said, however, that it was still on track
with projections that it would become profitable by midyear.
"I can say we are tracking exactly on that path," Mr.
Schultheis said. "This was all included in our projections."