Democrat Plan
   On a Tax Cut
   Barely Survives
   ---
   Leaders Foil a Move to Cut
   Their Package as GOP
   Joins Dissident Senators
   ----
   By Jackie Calmes
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The close call on the middle-class tax cut underscored
both the partisanship of the current tax-cutting competition,
and the ambivalence among Democrats over the effort at a time
of huge budget deficits. Senate Majority Leader George
Mitchell (D., Maine) and Senate Finance Committee Chairman
Lloyd Bentsen (D., Texas) ultimately killed the dissidents'
effort on a 57-38 vote, but only after prolonged and public
arm-twisting on the Senate floor.
   In other action, the Senate by voice vote adopted an
amendment from Sen. Howard Metzenbaum (D., Ohio) to prevent
investors who acquired failed thrift institutions from taking
tax deductions for losses when the government has compensated
them for those losses.
   The practice of taking tax-free subsidies and deductions,
known as "double dipping," was previously encouraged by the
government to entice investors to buy failing thrifts. Both
the Bush budget and the House-passed tax bill include
provisions to end the practice, but Sen. Bentsen had omitted
such a proposal in his package.
   Sen. Bentsen won voice-vote approval of an amendment
allowing self-employed taxpayers to deduct all of their costs
for health insurance. The current law, which permits a 25%
deduction, is due to expire June 30. The House bill has a
similar proposal for a permanent 100% deduction.
   Others senators lined up to offer amendments last night to
score points with various voter groups, such as senior
citizens, even though the lawmakers assumed the bill will be
vetoed.
   Meanwhile, the Democrats for a second time in as many days
defined which middle-income taxpayers would qualify for the
proposed $300-a-child tax credit. Under the latest change,
the full credit would be available to families with adjusted
gross incomes of less than $47,500 annually. The credit would
be phased out for families with higher incomes and eliminated
for those with incomes above $60,000.
   The original credit would have been phased out at incomes
between $50,000 and $70,000. That was changed Wednesday to a
range of $40,000 to $50,000 in a bid to reduce the bill's
cost and avert Republican's budgetary objections. But the
resulting reduction was more than needed, prompting
yesterday's move to raise the income limits a bit. Even so,
the credit would be available to two million fewer families
than the original proposal, which would have benefited an
estimated 20 million families.
   The attempt to delete the tax credit was made by a mix of
liberal and conservative Democrats, led by Sens. Carl Levin
of Michigan and Bob Graham of Florida. Their aim was to use
the revenues that would go to a middle-class tax cut -- $31.4
billion over five years -- for deficit reduction and new
domestic spending for job training and public works.
   The revenue to finance those causes, as in the Democratic
leaders' tax bill, would come from higher taxes on
upper-income taxpayers. Those higher taxes have drawn
President Bush's vow to veto a Democratic bill, as well as
Republicans' opposition. But, in a surprise move, the Senate
Republicans initially voted as a bloc in support of the Levin
amendment when Sens. Mitchell and Bentsen tried a procedural
gambit to kill it.
   The Republican action was an attempt not only to derail
the Democrats' bill, but also to embarrass Sen. Mitchell, who
has made middle-class tax relief a top priority of his
leadership.
   The vote stood at 50-46 for the amendment for more than a
half hour while a stern-faced Sen. Mitchell and his
lieutenants openly worked to change Democrats' votes. At one
point, South Dakota Sen. Thomas Daschle followed North Dakota
Sen. Kent Conrad to the Senate elevator in a vain attempt to
convert him. Finally, Sens. Robert Byrd of West Virginia,
Charles Robb of Virginia and Herbert Kohl of Wisconsin agreed
to change their votes. When that killed the Levin amendment,
many Republicans then changed sides to produce the final
57-38 vote.
   Amid the partisan maneuvering, GOP Sen. Warren Rudman of
New Hampshire momentarily captured the Senate's attention
when he blistered both sides for their politicking over
cutting taxes.
   "We have before us a Democratic package which uses real
tax increases and some gimmicks to pay for a scattershot of
tax breaks providing little or no economic benefit and an
administration proposal of somewhat more carefully targeted
tax breaks paid for almost entirely with gimmicks," he said.
   Both bills, he added, are "worse than doing nothing. . . .
Doing nothing at least has the virtue of not making things
worse in an effort to score political points."