Enterprise:
   Lawsuits Often Follow When Small Firms Go Public
   ---
   Litigious Shareholders Usually Appear
   If Stocks Fall Soon After Offerings
   ----
   By Michael Selz
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The suits usually arise over investors' losses if stocks
plunge not long after a public offering. Plaintiffs often
allege that negative company developments were unheralded in
prospectuses issued by the companies when going public. Says
Mr. O'Brien: "Many of the owners of these companies don't
realize that if they get sued, the probability that they'll
have to pay a significant amount of money is very high."
   Investors are filing a record number of securities
class-action complaints. In 1990 and 1991, 614 such suits
were filed in federal courts -- more than in the previous
five years combined, according to Class Action Reports, a
Washington newsletter. Mr. O'Brien concluded in a study of
330 such cases that about one-quarter were related to
securities offerings. Lawyers say suits involving IPOs are
proliferating, though precise figures are unavailable.
   To be sure, authorities say that companies settle over 95%
of such suits, often with most of the cost reimbursed by
liability insurers. But the suits consume time, hurt a
company's image and may hinder future fund raising.
   And some of the settlements are very costly. Last year,
Software Toolworks Inc., a Novato, Calif., computer-software
concern, paid two million shares of stock and $6.5 million in
cash to settle a suit related to its 1990 stock offering.
Former and current officers and directors of the company had
to provide $2 million of the cash portion of the deal. These
individuals are also liable for up to an additional $10
million if the stock fails to reach a certain value and if
the plaintiffs fail to collect a certain total sum from other
defendants in the suit, such as underwriters.
   Many other entrepreneurs are trying to avoid similar
financial reversals. Consider the plight of Leonhard
Dreimann, who took his company public last October. The
timing seemed ideal: Sales at his Salton/Maxim Housewares
Inc. had doubled for two consecutive years, to $52.7 million.
The market for small-company stocks was soaring too,
shattering records that had stood for a decade.
   But seven weeks after the $27.6 million stock offering,
the Mount Prospect, Ill., maker of small household appliances
announced that its growth had stalled, the result of
unexpected production delays and canceled orders. The
company's shares plunged 33% in a single day; they now sell
for less than half of their initial offering price of $12
each.
   Says Mr. Dreimann, Salton/Maxim's president and chief
executive: "Our corporate counsel told us the day the stock
dropped that a class-action suit was coming." Indeed, since
November, Salton/Maxim investors have filed five suits in
federal court in Chicago, claiming that Mr. Dreimann failed
to disclose the company's problems. Together, the suits seek
more than $14 million in damages. Mr. Dreimann says the
allegations have "no basis or foundation."
   Such charges may be a common refrain in coming months,
securities lawyers say. A total of 306 companies with revenue
under $100 million a year went public last year, raising
$15.1 billion, or nearly twice the $7.7 billion that 182 such
companies raised in 1990, says IDD Information Services, New
York.
   Nobody can know exactly how many of these companies will
disappoint investors. Company prospectuses today tend to
spell out more risks and to avoid specific performance
forecasts, says Randy Hecht, a partner in Robertson Stephens
 Co., a San Francisco investment bank.
   All the same, Richard Greenfield, a Haverford, Pa., lawyer
who specializes in representing investors in securities
cases, says: "A lot of the boom offerings of 1991 will start
showing their true colors in 1992. We're going to see a lot
of activity this year."
   Five investors sued Regeneron Pharmaceuticals Inc. after
the Tarrytown, N.Y., biotechnology concern's $99 million IPO
in April. The shareholders alleged in a complaint in federal
court in New York that after they placed orders to buy
Regeneron stock, the company increased the offering to 4.5
million shares from three million, and raised the price to
$22 a share from between $16 and $19. They say this was a
"bait-and-switch" tactic that contributed to a later decline
in the stock. Regeneron's general counsel, Paul Lubetkin,
responds: "We don't think there's any basis to the
allegations in fact or in law."
   In another shareholder complaint, filed in federal court
in New York, Maverick Tube Corp. is accused of misleading
investors when it went public in March. Less than a month
after the offering, the St. Louis maker of oil-drilling pipe
announced that earnings for the quarter ended last March 31
would decline 37% to 46% from the year-earlier level. The
company's stock now is trading at less than half its IPO
price of $13.50.
   Shareholder Marty Klein alleged in court that even though
Maverick's prospectus took effect only 12 days before the end
of the quarter, it failed to disclose the business was
sliding. Federal Judge Richard Owen dismissed the case in
November, stating that Maverick had made no misleading
allegations and had disclosed risks. (Mr. Klein's lawyer says
he plans to appeal the judgment this month.)
   Securities lawyers say all an investor irked over the
slumping stock value needs to do to take a company to court
is show that its prospectus contained a significant
misstatement or omission. And under the current statute of
limitations for securities cases, he has up to three years to
do so.
   "Congress gave purchasers of initial public offerings
very, very strong remedies because of the history of
insiders' taking advantage of them," says Melvyn Weiss, a
leading plaintiff's lawyer in New York. "You don't have to
show fraud or even negligence" to win such suits, he says. If
the prospectus fails to disclose any information a reasonable
investor would want to know, "the company's officers and
directors are absolutely liable," he says.
   Rather than risk arguing before a jury, lawyers for both
sides say, managements usually settle the suits over IPOs.
The amount involved -- typically under $10 million -- often
is covered in large part by liability insurance for directors
and officers, says Mr. O'Brien of the Law  Economics
Consulting Group.
   But Phillip Norton, a Wyatt Co. consultant in Chicago,
says insurers are tiring of footing the bill for shareholder
suits. Over the past five years, he says, carriers have begun
restricting coverage to exclude certain claims arising from
management's handling of an IPO.