International:
   Shaffer Takes Helm of Maxwell Empire,
   Outlines Bid to Salvage Core Enterprises
   ----
   By Meg Cox
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Mr. Shaffer will be traveling around the nation this week
and next to reassure managers, employees, suppliers and
competitors that the publishing company, whatever it
eventually calls itself, is alive and viable. Mr. Shaffer,
president of Offical Airline Guides when Mr. Maxwell acquired
it in 1988 and then promoted to the top executive job in Mr.
Maxwell's North American operations, is viewed as the perfect
man for the job. The 49-year-old MBA is the direct opposite
of his flamboyant former boss: unflappable and reassuring in
a crisis, a quietly commanding problem-solver.
   The agreement reached by court-appointed British and U.S.
overseers of Maxwell Communication, and approved Friday by a
U.S. bankruptcy judge, sets aside the core Maxwell publishing
properties as a group, with special protection to remain
intact. Mr. Shaffer said that while the banks are still
"aggravated" that Maxwell Communication took the bankruptcy
route, he believes it offers the best deal for creditors in
the long run.
   In the near term, several dozen minor companies will be
sold, said Mr. Shaffer, including Nimbus Records, based in
Wales; an Italian company that makes coloring books and
stickers for children; and a 51% share in Israeli publisher
Keter. Altogether, these minor assets will fetch "well under
$1 billion," he concedes. Maxwell Communication has $2.4
billion in debt.
   Those funds will be combined with whatever money can be
retrieved from loans to Mr. Maxwell's private companies, says
Mr. Shaffer, and he is confident that the continuing dispute
over Maxwell Communication's 56% of Berlitz International
Inc. shares can be settled and the sale of the language
company completed, bringing in another $265 million. Then,
Mr. Shaffer said: "We will restructure the core publishing
companies and convert some of the debt to equity. Some debt
will continue to be carried. The banks, in the end, will be
much, much better off than if there were a fire sale of
assets now."
   What will be left under Mr. Shaffer's stewardship includes
an established publishing house with some of the highest
margins in the business, a very profitable college textbook
business, and an array of electronic data-base publishing
enterprises. Among the latter is OAG, which is hurting from
the current airline slump but which still has a valuable
franchise in airline-schedule and fare information. Also
included is a half-interest in a textbook-publishing program
run with McGraw-Hill Inc., the largest elementary and
high-school book publisher in the nation.
   As for other publishers who might still wish to pick off
some of Maxwell Communication's prime assets piecemeal, such
as its children's book division, "they are out of luck," Mr.
Shaffer said firmly.
   The company that survives, he added, will continue a
tradition of conservative niche publishing that flourished
before Mr. Maxwell's arrival and was barely changed by him.
While other publishers gamble on huge advances to big-name
authors, Macmillan Publishing Co. has flourished by
publishing books such as "Macmillan's Baseball Encyclopedia,"
2,500 pages of pure statistics updated every three years.
   Although Mr. Maxwell tried to nudge Macmillan into
glitzier books, he generally failed, as when he pushed for
his company to bid huge sums for Margaret Thatcher's memoirs.
Mr. Shaffer said he recently "undid" about 10 publishing
deals Mr. Maxwell had in the works, "some for quite a lot of
money."
   Mr. Shaffer knows he will have to act fast to convince
potential authors, college professors and others that the
company will be around: Books lost now because authors are
skittish would mean insufficient quantities in the pipeline
two years from now.
   Sunday night, just after the bankruptcy judge approved the
plan to protect the publishing operations, Mr. Shaffer rushed
to Florida where Macmillan's college textbook sales force was
meeting. "The next three months are the critical selling
period for college texts," he said. "Those salespeople need
to know they won't be sold off."
   Mr. Shaffer, who was raised in a large family on a small
farm in Ohio, has been well-seasoned in crisis management.
When OAG (then owned by Dun  Bradstreet) bought Thomas Cook
Travel in 1985, Mr. Shaffer was sent in to turn it around.
The company hadn't been profitable in 16 years, but became so
after only seven months of his management. Mr. Shaffer also
revitalized OAG, firing one-third of the staff during the
first year.
   "He's an honest, straightforward guy and that helps a lot
in times like this," says Harry McQuillen, who recently left
as president of Macmillan Publishing to run the magazine
group at K-III Holdings. "He's not just a cheerleader, but a
real leader, a guy who believes and projects old-fashioned
American values. I believe he has taken it upon his shoulders
to save as many of those 16,000 jobs as he can and to keep a
wonderful company afloat."