Spanish Firms
   Hope to Boost
   Mexican Trade
   ---
   Strong Economy, U.S. Ties
   Attract More Companies
   Seeking New Markets
   ----
   By Carlta Vitzthum
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
"There's enormous interest on the part of Spaniards in
Mexico," says Jose Maria Lacasa, director of international
relations at the CEOE, Spain's leading business association.
"The change there has been tremendous. It's less
interventionist, more open to trade and investment. It offers
enormous opportunities."
   Adds Francisco Capilla Martinez of capital goods producer
Isoluz S.A.: "Mexico's economy is growing, prices are under
control, and companies are being privatized. Mexico is
becoming the latest hit."
   Trade between the two countries is picking up after
shrinking almost 75% since Spain became a member of the
European Community in 1986. Spanish exports to Mexico surged
22% in 1990 to 58.8 billion pesetas ($604 million), while
imports from Mexico rose a more modest 7% to 144.5 billion
pesetas.
   Despite the steady rise of the past two years, bilateral
trade is still below the levels of 1979-80. But that may soon
change.
   "Everybody's been visiting Mexico, including bankers,
executives and politicians," says Carlos Cecena, commercial
attache at the Mexican Embassy in Madrid. In late November, a
trade fair for Spanish companies in Mexico attracted more
than 200 Spanish participants.
   To a large extent, Spain's growing interest reflects
Mexico's improved economy and its possible role as a
springboard for Spanish firms wanting to enter the U.S.
   But Spain's sudden desire to go Mexican also underscores
fears about its traditional markets in Europe. Countries in
Eastern Europe have diverted the attention of some of Spain's
key trading partners, particularly Germany. And, with Spain's
economic growth slowing to 2.5% in 1991 from 3.7% in 1990,
many Spanish companies are looking for new markets.
   "Mexico has gone from being a market in crisis to a
consumer market with great buying potential," says Juan
Onieva of Panafrio Espanola S.A., which cans tuna as part of
a joint venture in Mexico. After several difficult years, he
says, sales are suddenly booming.
   Faced with cuts in government spending on infrastructure,
Spanish construction company Huarte S.A. hopes Latin American
markets will help offset an expected slump at home. Huarte is
building a housing project, offices and a tourist complex in
Mexico while Acerinox, a stainless steel producer, is putting
up a steel factory that will supply U.S. and Canadian
markets.
   "Some Spanish sectors are losing competitiveness day by
day in Europe," says Mr. Lacasa of CEOE. "Mexico offers an
attractive alternative where labor costs are low."
   He adds that Mexico, like markets throughout Latin
America, gives Spanish high-technology companies an
opportunity to approach business on a global scale. A case in
point is Spain's state-controlled telecommunications concern,
Telefonica de Espana S.A., which made an unsuccessful bid for
Mexico's telephone company in 1990.
   After years of practicing near-neglect, Spanish banks,
too, are seeking to take advantage of Mexico's booming stock
market and fledgling financial sector. Banco de Credito
Espanol, or Banesto, launched a 500 million-peseta investment
fund for Mexican securities last year. In October, the
Spanish bank acquired a 10% share of Mexico's Banco de
Oriente, with an option to raise its stake in the future.
   At the same time, Banco de Santander was lead manager of
Mexico's first issue of peseta-denominated "matador" bonds
for foreign institutional investors, and Banco Bilbao Vizcaya
acquired a 2% participation in Grupo Financiero Probursa.
   "We consider Mexico to be the most vigorous financial
market in Latin America," says a BBV spokesman.
   Despite cultural ties that go back 500 years, Spanish
companies have been slow to strengthen commercial links with
Mexico. Although it is Mexico's largest trading partner in
Europe, Spain ranks behind both the U.S. and Japan in terms
of Mexican trade volume and investment.
   "Spaniards have the advantage of language and culture,"
says Mr. Cecena of the Mexican Embassy. "But its interest is
relative; 70% of Mexico's exports still go to the U.S."
   Mr. Capilla Martinez of Isoluz says: "Mexico still has
lots of problems and is far less important for Spain than
Europe. You have to remember that only 10% of Spanish exports
go to Latin America, and almost all the rest go to Europe."
   Nevertheless, Spain may offer Mexico something that
neither the U.S. or Japan are able to provide: an example.
   "There's a certain parallelism between Spain's membership
in the EC and Mexico's free-trade agreement with the U.S. and
Canada," says Pedro Pasquin, director general of Corp.
Industrial & Financiera de Banesto, Spain's biggest private
industrial group. "We've been approached by several Mexican
groups that want to learn from Spain's experience in Europe.
They want to know how we did it."