Heard on the Street:
   German Bonds Look Good
   To U.S. Money Managers
   ----
   By John R. Dorfman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Put it all together and the bulls envision an investment
return of 15% or more for U.S. investors in German bonds this
year -- though such a gain is far from guaranteed.
   The biggest controversy is over what the mark will do.
Many people expect it to fall against the dollar this year,
if the U.S. economy is stronger than Germany's. That would
clip U.S. investors' returns. If the dollar surges, look out
below.
   Despite the currency risk, "we've been doing a ton of
business" in German bonds for the past two months, says
Michael R. Rosenberg, director of international fixed-income
research at Merrill Lynch. The firm says it usually charges a
$125 commission on a $25,000 order (its minimum order);
there's also a markup of about 0.125% from what Merrill pays
to buy the bonds for its inventory.
   Individuals who want to invest smaller amounts can do it
through mutual funds, though most of these have German bonds
as only a part of their investment mix.
   German bonds are a long-term play: "This is not an
investment for traders," cautions Luis Maizel, president of
LM Capital Management Inc. in La Jolla, Calif., which
specializes in bonds world-wide. Anyone buying German bonds
should hold them at least two years, in his opinion, to allow
time for German interest rates to decline and to avoid being
swamped by short-term currency swings.
   A double-digit 1992 return would beat what many investment
professionals are expecting from American bonds this year. Of
course, stocks lately have been stealing the spotlight from
bonds. But many investors don't want to raise their ante in
the stock market at a time when stock prices are high by
traditional measures of value.
   Here's what some investment advisers are saying about that
three-course meal:
                                                                                                       

   Interest rates. It's unusual for rates in Germany to
exceed those in the U.S. But they do now.
   The difference in short-term rates is huge. In America,
the yield on Treasury bills and the like is at ankle height,
around 4%. The equivalent German rates on three-month to
six-month government debt are near 9%.
   On longer-term bonds, the difference is less pronounced.
The yield on 10-year U.S. Treasury bonds has recently fallen
to about 6.8%; the yield on 10-year German securities is
about one percentage point higher. The German government
doesn't issue any bonds for terms beyond 10 years.
   "You have not seen this kind of favorable difference {in
yields} for Germany, ever," says Mr. Maizel of LM Capital.
He, personally, is buying German government notes that mature
in five to seven years.
   One reason German rates are higher is that Germany's
central bank has purposely kept them up, to prevent serious
inflation from the absorption of the former East Germany.
Anti-inflation fervor is strong in Germany: Many Germans
haven't forgotten the horrendous inflation that followed
World War I and forced some grocery shoppers to bring
wheelbarrows of money to the store.
                                                                                                       

   Capital gains. Bonds, perversely, provide their best
investment returns when an economy is slowing or stalling.
That describes several European economies nowadays, and
particularly Germany's.
   A bad economy is good for bonds because interest rates
usually fall when the economy weakens. Businesses and
individuals borrow less, and the government typically tries
to guide rates downward to combat the slump.
   Falling interest rates are to bonds what water is to
flowers. When interest rates fall, the value of existing
bonds automatically rises: The older bonds are worth more
because they still carry yesterday's comparatively generous
interest rates.
   Though no one can be sure, several money managers contend
that Germany's economy will sink into a recession this year
even as the U.S. finally clambers out of one. If that
prediction proves true, German bonds should do far better
than American bonds.
   "Europe is where the action is" in the bond market, says
one large global money manager. "U.S. analysts really don't
appreciate yet how weak things are in Germany. Their economy
is worse than anybody dreams."
   "In 1992, there's a very good probability that German bond
yields will decline significantly, and that therefore the
price of the bonds will go up significantly," says Nancy
Lazar, executive vice president of International Strategy
Investment Group.
   Ed Levy, partner at Levy Harkins  Co., says German bonds
are the single biggest investment in his $150 million
portfolio. "Inflation rates today are comparable" in the U.S.
and Germany, he says. But "the Germans are serious inflation
fighters," and also carry far less debt than Americans. Those
are among the factors he thinks will help German bonds do
well.
                                                                                                       

   Currency effects. The trickiest part to predict is what
the mark and the dollar will do. If the mark rises, it will
provide a tasty dessert for U.S. investors, as the value of
interest earned abroad will be worth more when translated
into dollars. But if the dollar strengthens against the mark,
U.S. investors will be reaching for their Alka-Seltzer.
   Mr. Maizel of LM Capital thinks the mark will be "stable
to slightly higher" against the dollar for the next two
years. "I think the U.S. is going to have to play up its
exports," he says, and will need to make the dollar cheaper
to do so.
   To be sure, some money managers don't buy the German-bond
thesis. "A lot of clients have been asking about it," says
one New York investment adviser. "But with Russia imploding,
it might be difficult for Germany to maintain rates." A flood
of refugees might force Germany to "flood the system with
money," hurting bonds.
   Another skeptic is Jim Melcher of Balestra Capital. He
thinks the dollar will rise as the U.S. economy recovers.
Also, he wants to keep his money in American stocks, which he
thinks will stay hot.
   Peter Moertl, a director of Deutsche Bank's U.S. money
management arm, thinks German bonds make sense for U.S.
investors as part of a long-term diversification strategy.
It's "very shortsighted" to invest in Germany just because
German rates are relatively high, he says. "The difference
can be eaten up by a foreign exchange move very quickly. If
the dollar moves up six pfennigs {about 4%} the difference is
not there." But he predicts that "we are going to have a bond
rally" in Germany this year.
   ---
                    Comparing Yields
                                                                                                       

    COUNTRY           BOND YIELD*    ECONOMIC GROWTH**
                                                                                                       

    Canada                8.2%            0.9%
    France                8.2             3.3
    Germany               7.8            -1.9
    Japan                 5.6             1.6
    Britain               9.6             0.7
    United States         6.8             1.8
                                                                                                       

   *On 10-Year government bonds
   **Third quarter growth rate in gross domestic product,
annualized
                                                                                                       

   Source: Merrill Lynch International Fixed Income Research