International:
   Hyundai Owner Takes On Government
   ----
   By Damon Darlin
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Mr. Chung gave up the sit-in after one night, but he
hasn't given up his fight against the government. "Korea is
becoming a pawnshop economy," he says in a rare interview.
"People have been waiting for a party that can run the
economy."
   Mr. Chung, the peasant's son who forged one of the world's
largest conglomerates, Hyundai Group, has formed his own
political party. Though it might be easy to dismiss his
challenge to the government as the whim of a rich old man,
Mr. Chung, at age 76, is serious about winning and is gaining
enough support to worry the ruling party. There is
circumstantial evidence that the government is using its
regulatory and enforcement powers to retaliate against Mr.
Chung in a battle that has caught Hyundai Group in the
crossfire.
   In the weeks since the founding of Mr. Chung's Unification
National Party and its creation of a slate of candidates for
the March 24 National Assembly elections, Hyundai says tax
investigators have visited many of its units, including
Hyundai Securities Co. Hyundai also has found that major
banks, controlled by the government, refuse to lend it money.
   Applications to raise money through rights offerings by
two units are in limbo, having failed to get government
approval. Institutional investors are hesitant to buy Hyundai
corporate paper, the company says. Mr. Chung says the
government even refuses to pay $28.8 million of a $58.8
million bill for building the presidential residence and
office building. A presidential spokesman says the bill has
been paid.
   Korean newspapers reported Sunday that Hyundai Group
Chairman Chung Se Yung, a younger brother of Chung Ju Yung,
and the heads of 33 Hyundai units petitioned the government
to lift its "financial sanctions." The petitions ask the
government to lift an embargo on Hyundai's plan to raise
374.9 billion won ($497.5 million) in the stock and bond
markets and to resume a 425.6 billion won government loan
that the petition says has been suspended.
   With its cash flow constricted, the company says it will
have to truncate its investment plans for 1992. Securities
analysts guess that without the government-subsidized loans,
Hyundai will have to borrow at higher interest rates.
   Hyundai is the most financially sound of South Korea's
three biggest conglomerates, says Keith Nam, an analyst with
Jardine Fleming Securities Ltd. in Seoul, but the
government's moves "could create a financial pinch."
   In a 5:30 a.m. interview at his large but plain home, the
entrepreneur, looking 10 years younger than he is, says,
"They are waiting for the bankruptcy of Hyundai."
   Few people, including Hyundai's foreign bankers, can
believe that the government would try to destroy Hyundai
Group. But they know the government has used tax
investigations and loans to cajole companies into following
certain policies or to punish them. The government denies
that it is doing anything to harass Hyundai.
   But analysts and diplomats don't doubt the pressure is on.
Mr. Chung's challenge to the ruling party is real. President
Roh Tae Woo formed the Democratic Liberal Party in 1990 by
merging two conservative parties with his Democratic Justice
Party. The party was never popular, but the merger left
voters with only one real alternative, the opposition party
of Kim Dae Jung, which was becoming increasingly irrelevant
and did poorly at the polls.
   "The whole point of the merger was to wrap up all the
alternatives to Kim. Now Chung is unwrapping it," says a
Western diplomat. "This is no laughing matter" for the
government.
   It is too early to tell whether Mr. Chung will win
substantial support. Around 75% of the people are still
undecided, surveys show. Political analysts say Mr. Chung's
party will pick up at least 20 of the 237 seats in the
National Assembly elections, enough to let it survive as an
opposition party. But some in the party say it can win 45
seats, a level that would give Mr. Chung's party credibility
in the race for the presidency this year.
   Interviews with voters suggest it will be a difficult
battle. Many people say they are uncomfortable mixing
politics and business. "He would do better to concentrate on
the economy," said a 60-year-old chauffeur. On the other
hand, No Song Cha, a 50-year-old homemaker, likes him and his
party. "Because he is the head of a corporation he would look
after the economy. He would do fine," she says.
   Mr. Chung says his campaign is economic. It is also
populist, playing on fears whipped up by the government that
the South Korean economy is weakening. "I can perform much
better in politics and the economy than the Roh regime," he
contends.
   He says he would sell apartments to workers at half price.
He would root out the underground economy, perhaps as large
as $50 billion a year, by forcing investors to list all
assets under their real names. For business, he wants to cut
interest rates by increasing the money supply, a solution
economists say would fuel inflation. His party concedes the
plan will do that, but only temporarily.
   Analysts say the Chung party's best chance lies in the
perceived harassment by the government. "It is a good
education for the country to understand the society we are
working in," says Rep. Chung Mong Joon, Mr. Chung's son and a
former member of the ruling party.
   The elder Mr. Chung's battle over taxes last year got the
ball rolling. He embarrassed the ruling party by disclosing
that he had been forced to donate $6.5 million to Mr. Roh's
party each year and similar amounts to Mr. Roh's predecessor.
   "They may hurt themselves more," says the younger Mr.
Chung, one of his father's top advisers. With millions of
Hyundai employees and shareholders, the backlash against the
government could be substantial, he says.
   "I understood the government might react like this, and
some companies might be in danger," he says. "But if we allow
this regime to continue, the economy will collapse in five
years, and the Hyundai companies would collapse with it."