Economy:
   Greenspan Expects Good Economic Data
   In `Weeks,' Hints at Rate Cut Otherwise
   ----
   By Rick Wartzman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The Fed chairman, appearing before the Senate Banking
Committee, was pressed by lawmakers as to why the Fed hasn't
already seen fit to lower interest rates. Mr. Greenspan
responded, as he and other government officials have
recently, that for the moment "monetary policy is working."
   "The question basically is, are we having enough of an
effect, and is more required?" he said.
   Specifically, Mr. Greenspan said that interest-rate cuts
made since 1989 are now strengthening business and household
balance sheets, which should help fuel new economic activity.
He also cited recent gains by the housing industry.
   But the chairman, confronted by senators pointing to plant
closings at General Motors Corp. and record low consumer
confidence, also made clear that "if the need should arise, I
would say that we would probably" move to cut rates anew. The
last major interest-rate reduction came in December.
   Mr. Greenspan added that he was looking "very soon" for
"definite signs" of an economic turnaround to emerge, "so
it's not an ambiguous recovery."
   For the past month, the message from Mr. Greenspan has
been the same, with slight gradations. Last week, when he
appeared before a relatively docile House Banking
subcommittee, the chairman stressed that the economy was
starting to see "stirrings" of improvement. Yesterday, under
tougher questioning, he seemed to emphasize that "in the
current context, the outlook remains particularly uncertain."
   Given that uncertainty, several members of the committee
asked what the harm would be in cutting interest rates
immediately. "It seems to me there's very little downside
risk of trying to move the rates," Sen. Paul Sarbanes (D.,
Md.) said, as he held up a newspaper story heralding the GM
cutbacks.
   "Don't you at some point have to concede that something
more needs to be done here?" added Sen. Donald Riegle (D.,
Mich.), the panel's chairman.
   But Mr. Greenspan explained that the Fed must "make
certain that we create a degree of stability in the financial
system" by not moving impetuously.
   Nonetheless, several lawmakers remained unsatisfied that
the Fed is doing enough. Mr. Riegle noted that the committee
will vote later this week on Mr. Greenspan's reappointment as
Fed chairman. "You're going to be confirmed" by the panel,
Sen Riegle said, but if "there were a public referendum on it
. . . they might well vote you out" because "they don't see
the policies working."
   Invoking a similar theme yesterday, Sen. Connie Mack (R.,
Fla.) called on President Bush to fire Treasury Secretary
Nicholas Brady. The senator said that firing the Treasury
secretary would be the clearest way for the president to show
he has "heard the message of the American people" about the
need for more aggressive policies to spur the economy. Mr.
Mack, also a member of the banking committee, favors a
sharper cut in the capital gains tax rate than the
administration has proposed.
   In response to questions from the committee, Mr. Greenspan
also yesterday:
   -- Said "there is no evidence yet that we've hit bottom"
in the commercial real estate sector. There is nothing, the
chairman said, to indicate "that commercial values are
stabilizing and are even remotely showing signs of turning
up."
   -- Urged Congress to decide promptly whether to adopt a
tax credit for first-time home buyers, because uncertainty
may be causing people to hold back on purchasing houses.
   -- Said he doesn't see that a global economic downturn
would hurt the U.S. Mr. Greenspan said that while the
domestic economy is weak, as is that of Canada and Britain,
stability in Germany and relative strength in Japan are
helping to mitigate the potential for such a problem.