THE 1993 BUDGET: Bush's Antidote to Recession
   ---
   White House's Research-Aid Proposals
   Now Emphasize Commercial Viability
   ----
   By Bob Davis
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
"There's a fundamental shift," said Daniel Burton,
executive vice president of the Council on Competitiveness, a
private group organized by business.
   The change in research priorities is partly the result of
the end of the Cold War. The president's budget calls for
cuts in research, development and testing of nuclear weapons
for the fiscal year beginning Oct. 1. Overall, budget
authority for military RD would grow only 1%, to $40.5
billion.
   Military RD would represent 53% of federal government's
research budget. That's down sharply from the peak of the
Reagan military buildup in fiscal year 1986, when military
spending took twothirds of all federal research dollars.
   But the growing interest in commercial technology also
reflects fears about the decline of this country's
competitive position. The new initiatives are designed to
"spur innovation and the movement of new products and
processes from the laboratory to the marketplace," said Allan
Bromley, the president's science adviser.
   Take biotechnology. The budget touts biotechnology as an
industry that could grow tenfold in the 1990s to about $50
billion in annual revenue. To ensure U.S. dominance of the
field, the administration proposes a multi-agency program in
biotech research that would be funded at $4 billion, a 7%
increase over current budget authority. The biotech program
would include a 20% increase, to $83 million, for research
into such environmental products as oil-eating microbes; and
a 25% increase, to $124 million, to develop ways to
manufacture chemicals, fuels and other products through
genetic engineering.
   At the same time, the White House is conducting a review
of biotechnology regulations, as part of its 90-day ban on
new regulation, with an eye toward easing restrictions. But
the big emphasis on technology could activate opposition from
critics concerned about potential harm to the environment.
Margaret Mellon, a biotechnology specialist at the National
Wildlife Federation, said she fears the White House will push
for the "broadest relaxation of regulations possible."
   The administration is also pushing a new initiative in
materials processing, where budget authority would increase
10%, to $1.8 billion; and a 23% increase for a supercomputer
network, to $803 millionconsiderably higher than expected.
And in a move that has symbolic meaning for commercial
technology advocates, the budget provides funds to launch a
Critical Technology Institute, which would map strategies for
the U.S. to compete in emerging technologies. Last year, the
administration asked Congress to kill the institute in one of
the many battles it has fought over industrial policy.
   The administration hasn't turned its back on the
big-science projects that dominated the Reagan and early Bush
years. The superconducting supercollider, the world's largest
atom-smasher, would get a 34% increase in authorized
spending, to $650 million, and the orbital space station
would receive an 11% boost, to $2.25 billion.
   But the change toward commercial technology is evident in
the waning fortunes of the National Aeronautics and Space
Administration, which has long been a favorite of the Bush
administration. NASA would receive only a 2% increase in
outlays, to $14.1 billion, and it would be limited to eight
shuttle launches a year through 1996 -- not the dozen annual
shuttle missions the agency had been planning.
   In addition, the Bush budget plan would cancel a $2
billion NASA project to build a new generation of rocket
boosters for the space shuttle and an $800 million project to
launch a robotic spacecraft to tail a comet. (Congress,
however, will fight to restore the booster project, which is
located in the district of the chairman of the House
appropriations committee, Rep. Jamie Whitten, a Mississippi
Democrat.)
   By contrast, spending by the National Science Foundation
would increase 17%, to $2.7 billion. The NSF would continue
its role as a major funder of small-scale science, but it
would also play a big role in investigating advanced
manufacturing -- the next area of commercial technology the
administration wants to bolster.