New Stock Listings
The Big Board began trading the following closed-end
management funds last week as initial offerings: American
Adjustable Rate Term Trust, Minneapolis, under DDJ; Strategic
Global Income Fund Inc., New York, under SGL.
                                                                                                       

   On the Amex, First City Bancorp Inc., Murfreesboro, Tenn.,
a bank holding company, began trading under FCT, having
previously traded over the counter.
                                                                                                       

   The National Market System of the over-the-counter market
began trading the following initial offerings: Abaxis Inc.,
Mountain View, Calif., a point-of-care blood analyzer systems
concern, under ABAX; Amylin Pharmaceuticals Inc., San Diego,
an amylin therapeutics developer, under AMLN; Arch
Communications Group Inc., Westborough, Mass., a national
paging service, under APGR; CardioPulmonics Inc., Salt Lake
City, a maker of pulmonary and cardiopulmonary products,
under CRDS; Cit Fed Bancorp Inc., Dayton, Ohio, a bank
holding company, under CTZN; Engle Homes Inc., Boca Raton,
Fla., a builder of single-family homes, townhouses, patio
homes and condominiums, under ENGL; Farrel Corp., Ansonia,
Conn., a capital equipment services company, under FARL;
Gilead Sciences Inc., Forster City, Calif., a pharmaceuticals
firm, under GILD;  Menley  James Inc., Horsham, Pa., an
over-the-counter pharmaceutical and toiletry products
concern, under MENJ; PhyCor Inc., Nashville, Tenn., an
operator of multispecialty medical clinics, under PHYC;
Spectranetics Corp., Colorado Springs, Colo., a maker of
excimer laser and disposable fiberoptic catheters, under
SPNC; Sphinx Pharmaceuticals Corp., Durham, N.C., a
biopharmaceutical company, under SPHX; Tocor II Inc., a
pharmaceuticals research and development company, with units
that include two types of warrants to purchase shares in
Centocor Inc., a Malvern, Pa., biopharmaceutical company,
under TOCRZ; Ventritex Inc., Sunnyvale, Calif., a maker of
implantable defibrillators and related products, under VNTX;
Walker Power Inc., Warner, N.H., a maker of power conversion
components and systems, under WPIC; and Whole Foods Market
Inc., Austin, Texas, a chain of natural foods supermarkets,
under WFMI.
                                                                                                       

   The Chicago Board Options Exchange began trading options
on Genelabs Technologies Inc., Redwood City, Calif., a
molecular and cellular engineering firm, under GNLB and Ribi
ImmunoChem Research Inc., Hamilton, Mont., a maker of
immunological agents and related products, under RIBI.
   The CBOE begins trading options today on AutoZone Inc.,
Memphis, Tenn., an automotive replacement parts, chemicals
and accessories retail chain, under AZO; and Organogenesis
Inc., Cambridge, Mass., a developer of living organ
equivalents, under ORG.
                                                                                                       

   Additionally, the Amex began trading last week in options
known as Leaps, or Long Term Equity Anticipation Securities,
on Amgen Inc., Glaxo Holdings PLC, Tenneco Inc. and U.S.
Surgical Corp.
                                                                                                       

   The CBOE begins trading Leaps options today on RJR Nabisco
Holdings Corp., Centocor Inc., Gap Inc., H.J.  Heinz Co.,
Limited Inc., Liz Claiborne Inc., UAL Corp. and Xerox Corp.
                                                                                                       

   The Philadelphia Stock Exchange began trading Leaps
options Friday on RJR Nabisco Holdings.
   Leaps have longer-term expirations than regular stock
options. Puts and calls are listed at three strike prices,
with expirations in January 1993 and January 1994.