Economy:
   Fed Cuts Deposit-Reserve Requirements
   ---
   Reduction Is the Latest Bid
   To Bolster Bank Profits
   And Encourage Lending
   ----
   By David Wessel
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
"It's marginal stuff, but every little bit helps," said
Robert Litan, a Brookings Institution economist. He estimates
bank profits total about $15 billion a year.
   The change, which won't take effect until April to give
banks time to prepare for it, isn't intended as a step by the
Fed to increase the amount of overall credit it supplies to
the economy, Fed officials said.
   The Fed may or may not decide to ease its grip on credit
before April, officials said, but the reserve-requirement
change doesn't prejudice that decision. The Fed could sop up
the extra reserves by selling Treasury securities. Or it
could leave some of the reserves in the banking system, which
would tend to nudge short-term interest rates down.
   In rising retail sales, auto sales and housing, Fed
officials see signs that the economic recovery is beginning
to materialize -- again. Although some Fed policy makers
would like to cut interest rates to assure a healthy
recovery, others are wary about cutting rates as tax-cut
fever sweeps Capitol Hill and about opening the Fed to
partisan attacks that it is acting to rescue President Bush's
re-election bid.
   Financial markets reacted negatively to the Fed's noon
announcement. The yield on bellwether 30-year Treasury bonds
rose to 7.98%. Analysts said this was partly out of
confusion. Some suggested bond traders read the move as a
signal that the Fed is inclined to ease soon, prompting
concern about overstimulating the economy and worsening
inflation. "They have leaned in the direction of ease," said
William Griggs of Griggs  Santow Inc., a New York
market-watching firm.
   But other analysts suggested just the opposite: that the
bond market was disappointed that the Fed was cutting reserve
requirements instead of cutting interest rates. "The bond
market would like to have seen the Fed ease more," said Lyle
Gramley, chief economist of the Mortgage Bankers Association
and a former Fed governor. "This step is probably saying to
the bond market: The Fed is doing this instead of easing and
{short-term interest} rates are not going to go much lower."
   Whatever the cause, higher long-term rates tend to act as
a brake on the economy.
   Had the 10% level been in effect in 1991, banks would have
been required to hold about $8 billion less in reserves, a
substantial change, given that required reserves amounted to
about $50 billion last year. For a variety of technical and
seasonal reasons, the change will free up about $9 billion
when it occurs in April.
   "The reduction should strengthen the financial condition
of banks and thereby improve their access to capital markets,
putting them in a better position to extend credit," the Fed
said in a statement.
   Treasury Secretary Nicholas Brady praised the Fed move as
"very helpful."
   Banks, the primary beneficiaries, were pleased. "We are
delighted with the Fed's move," said John McGillicuddy,
chairman and chief executive of Chemical Banking Corp. This
"will increase our commitment all the more to seeing to it
that growth-oriented credit needs get met."
   Julius Loeser, senior vice president at First Interstate
Bancorp, Los Angeles, also called the move "a very positive
development for us," but said the projected $300 million to
$600 million in added profits would be more than erased by
the FDIC's proposed increase in the deposit insurance
premium. He also said that the very existence of reserve
requirements on checking accounts constitutes a "hidden tax"
on the banking industry and should be eliminated.
   The American Bankers Association said the move "means that
the cost of funds to banks will be lower" and promised that
"the savings will be passed along to consumers and other
borrowers." As they try to rebuild their depleted capital
base, banks have been slow to pass along to borrowers some of
the benefits of lower interest rates.
   The Fed board unanimously approved the reduction in
reserve requirements yesterday morning, but the plan had been
in the works for months. One governor, John LaWare, was
absent, but a Fed spokesman said he would have voted for the
change.
   The Fed has three tools to steer the economy -- and is
using all three to resuscitate it. It can directly alter the
supply of credit by buying or selling government securities,
the tool most often used. It can change the discount rate,
the highly visible interest rate it charges on loans to
banks. Or it can alter reserve requirements.
   In December 1990, the Fed eliminated a 3% reserve
requirement on certain corporate certificates of deposit. At
that time, the Fed considered reducing reserve requirements
on checking accounts as well, but feared that it might be
setting reserve requirements below the bare minimum needed to
keep the banking system functioning. The Fed made several
technical changes yesterday that are designed to make it
easier for banks to get by on slimmer reserves.
   Banks frequently complain because the Fed doesn't pay
interest on reserves. The Fed would like to do so, but its
lawyers say that would require congressional approval and the
White House budget office says it would require offsetting
spending cuts or tax increases. The Fed's reduction in
reserve requirements will reduce slightly the amount of money
the Fed turns over to the Treasury each year, widening the
deficit a bit.
   The announcement came just one day before Fed Chairman
Alan Greenspan appears before a House subcommittee for his
semiannual testimony on monetary policy.