Dismissal of Shareholders' Fraud Suit
   Against Citicorp Is Upheld on Appeal
   ----
   By Steven Lipin
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Financial institutions around the country, especially in
the Northeast, have increasingly been sued by shareholders
who allege that management fraudulently misrepresented the
institutions' financial health because of the loss provisions
charged against earnings. Lawyers say 150 to 200 lawsuits
have been filed in the last two years by shareholders
alleging fraud, including cases against Citicorp, Chase
Manhattan Corp., Shawmut National Corp. and others.
   Most banks view these suits as a thorn in their side and
do not expect to pay money damages, but they are nevertheless
concerned about time and legal costs.
   U.S. District Judge Robert Owen ruled that by claiming the
bank failed to establish proper reserves, the plaintiff, J.
Dolly Ciresi on behalf of herself and others, was arguing
that the bank was mismanaged. But the court said that even if
the company may have been mismanaged, that did not constitute
fraud. The court did not address the issue of Citicorp's
reserve posture or whether the company was mismanaged.
   "The court clearly differentiated between making mistakes
and lying," said Joseph T. McLaughlin, a partner at Shearman
 Sterling who successfully argued the case.
   Lawyers who defend banking companies against these suits
say the case should help stave off similar litigation and
strengthen the defense of their existing cases. The Second
Circuit Court of Appeals, in New York, is considered the most
important federal court for decisions on securities laws
because many financial institutions are based here.
   "The court affirmed a well-reasoned decision on which many
banks are relying," said Douglas Kraus, a partner at Skadden,
Arps, Slate Meagher  Flom, who is defending a number of
financial institutions in similar cases. "It's going to be
helpful for other banks subject to these kinds of suits."
   Added H. Rodgin Cohen, partner at Sullivan  Cromwell,
"The Second Circuit decision, combined with a number of other
rulings, should be seen as a favorable development."
   Still, the court issued a summary order rather than a full
written decision, which means the decision cannot be relied
upon in unrelated cases. But lawyers said the lower-court
ruling can still be used as precedent, and the Appeals Court
ruling can be used "as an affirmation without an opinion,"
Mr. Kraus said.
   Richard Greenfield, a partner at Greenfield  Chimicles,
which represents plaintiffs in scores of these types of
cases, disagreed that it has any application to other suits.
He noted that there are still other suits against Citicorp
that will continue. "Each complaint will stand on its own,"
he said.
   A spokesman for Citicorp said "We are pleased that the
Appeals Court decision affirms our previous stated belief
that the suit was without merit."