Letters to the Editor:
   Generous Welfare? How's $7 a Day?
The waiting lists for housing is an indictment of our
society's failure in a couple of instances -- to see that
affordable housing is present and a wage scale that allows
people to provide their own shelter. When I read that cities
are paying $3,000 a month for an apartment for the poor, I
don't see a "generous" welfare system. I see a system that
once more exploits the poor for profit. Why do cities agree
to such outrageous charges?
   Your suggestion that 30-year-old policies of urban renewal
and gentrification be reviewed is on target. Also, the move
away from "ghettoizing" the poor by large housing projects is
needed. Single-room-occupancy hotels have limited impact on
homeless families.
   But I challenge your conclusion that our social policies
have "artificially" created demand for public housing. Our
social policies have created a housing disaster and a real
demand for decent, affordable housing.
   Gregory R. Versen
   Associate Professor of Social Work
   James Madison University
   Harrisonburg, Va.
   ---
   You list several reasons for the housing shortage, but
omit a major cause. For years Congress and the IRS have been
striking at rental-property investors by every means, such as
ever-lengthening depreciation terms, restrictions on
deductions of interest expense and an especially devilish
system of income classification that divides income into
"good" and "bad." Rental income is "bad" income, called
"passive." Losses from rental income can be deducted only in
certain restricted cases.
   Why all this obstruction to investment for badly needed
rental property? Behold the workings of the economics of
envy] Abraham Lincoln said it best: "You cannot help the poor
by hurting the rich" (not that most people who own rental
property are especially rich).
   Affordable rental property will not become plentiful until
the "Politically Correct" investment obstructions are removed
and incentives are restored.
   Paul Perschbacher
   Camarillo, Calif.