Bush Administration Expands Plans
   To Pursue Ouster of Saddam Hussein
   ----
   By David Rogers and Gerald F. Seib
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
The notification -- known as an intelligence finding -- is
said to be more explicit and broader than prior notifications
of actions aimed against Iraq that were provided by the White
House since the end of last year's Persian Gulf War.
   Preliminary discussions have focused on making available
an estimated $20 million for the program, which goes beyond
previously reported efforts to aim propoganda at Iraq and
support political opposition groups. The significance of the
new notice is that it expands the latitude available to the
administration and serves to give notice to Congress in case
overt action is required later in response to a coup attempt
by anti-Saddam forces.
   At the same time, officials said, Robert Gates, director
of the CIA, is traveling in the Middle East on an inaugural
tour of the region in which he is discussing efforts to oust
the Iraqi president with America's Arab allies in the region.
   The new moves against Iraq are the result of a weeklong
policy review by the Bush administration prompted by signs
that increasing internal ferment in Iraq may be making Saddam
Hussein vulnerable. But officials also said that the new
plans, while stepping up the pace of efforts to force a
change in Iraq, don't reflect a radical shift in the American
approach.
   In particular, officials said the U.S. remains leery of
covertly arming Shiite and Kurdish rebels active in the south
and north of Iraq, respectively. Administration officials
think those rebels could set off a sectarian war that might
rip apart Iraq without succeeding in pushing Saddam Hussein
out of power in Baghdad.
   Instead, U.S. officials think a successful effort to oust
Saddam Hussein must instead originate within the Sunni Muslim
minority that runs Iraq's government, army and ruling Baath
party. In particular, the U.S. hopes to encourage an army
coup, and there are exiled Sunni army officers in Saudi
Arabia and elsewhere who would like covert aid in their
efforts to unseat Saddam Hussein.