Marketing  Media:
   Music Stars of Past
   Have Record Deals
   That Pick Up a Beat
   ---
   EMI Music Raises Royalties
   Paid to Pre-1970 Artists
   To Reflect New Standards
   ----
   By Meg Cox
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
James Fifield, chairman of EMI Music, which is owned by
London's Thorn EMI PLC, said: "We've been selling a lot of
reissues on compact disks of artists from the '50s and '60s
and paying them at low rates set years ago. This will amount
to millions of dollars that we aren't legally bound to pay,
but it's the right thing to do."
   Mr. Fifield said singer Bonnie Raitt, who records on EMI's
Capitol label, "raised my consciousness" about the hard lives
of some blues legends and got him involved in the Rhythm and
Blues Foundation, which raises money to help some of these
aging artists. "Bob Hope and Dean Martin hardly need a check
from EMI, but a lot of these old jazz and RB artists are in
need," said Mr. Fifield.
   Several hundred artists, or their estates, will benefit
from the change, including a wide range of legendary artists,
from the Andrews Sisters to Fats Domino, Miles Davis and John
Coltrane. The checks can be substantial: EMI recently
released a Fats Domino boxed set that has already sold 75,000
units. The 10% rate applies to retail list price for products
sold at full price; a lower rate will be paid in other cases.
In addition, artists with old debit balances for recording
and other costs will have those debts forgiven so they can
receive royalties again.
   EMI's plan isn't without precedent. About four years ago,
the Atlantic Recording label within Time Warner Inc.'s Warner
Music Group announced a similar change in its royalty
structure for artists from earlier years.
   "There was a time when artists' rates were in the 5%
neighborhood. Nobody was being exploited, because that's what
everybody got," said Mike Mayer, a lawyer with Mayer, Katz,
Baker  Liebowitz, which represents Atlantic. "But the
industry changed, and these people were paid the same low
rates. I suspect that now there will be increased awareness."
   Allen Grubman, an industry lawyer whose clients include
Madonna and Bruce Springsteen, agreed. "This is a gracious,
classy thing to do, and I hope all the other companies take
EMI's lead. Now that the record business is controlled by
multinational corporations, I believe this is the kind of
business responsibility issue these companies will relate to
and understand."