Who's News:
   First Boston's
   Wheat Resigns
   From Asia Unit
   ----
   By William Power
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Under the reorganization, Mr. Wheat was succeeded as
president and chief executive officer of the Asian operation,
called CS First Boston Pacific, by Robert E. Diamond Jr., who
resigned last week from Morgan Stanley. Mr. Diamond, 40 years
old, had been head of fixed-income trading for Morgan
Stanley's European and Asian operations based in London.
   Mr. Diamond was also named to the CS First Boston
executive committee, which now numbers seven including Mr.
Wheat.
   Mr. Wheat, 43, will "concentrate his efforts on the firm's
derivative-products area," CS First Boston said in a
statement yesterday, continuing as head of Credit Suisse
Financial Products, formed 1 1/2 years ago in a joint venture
with Credit Suisse, the Swiss bank that effectively controls
CS First Boston. In addition, Mr. Wheat will assume
responsibility for the firm's world-wide foreign exchange
businesses, which CS First Boston is trying to improve.
   The change surprised people on Wall Street, who had
thought that CS First Boston had finally completed its
numerous management changes of recent years undertaken by
Chairman John Hennessy. Just two years ago, Mr. Wheat was
hired with great fanfare from Bankers Trust New York Corp. to
revive the Asian arm of the then-struggling CS First Boston
financial empire. He is one of CS First Boston's top
executives, and the 800-employee Asian operation was
profitable last year, a CS First Boston spokesman said.
   But the spokesman said Mr. Wheat had decided four to five
months ago -- and Mr. Hennessy agreed -- that he couldn't run
both the Asian operations and the derivatives-products
affiliate based in London because both were growing ahead of
projections. They each "require their own CEOs," the
spokesman said.
   Mr. Wheat was said to be traveling yesterday and wasn't
available for comment.
   In an interview, Mr. Diamond said he expects to work
closely with Mr. Wheat in certain areas. He said he couldn't
talk about his specific plans for the Asia unit yet. But he
said there are a "number of capital markets in Asia that are
just on the verge," and a "sophisticated and developed Asian
operation" will be able to capitalize on that.
   Morgan Stanley said Mr. Diamond won't be directly
replaced. It said J. Steven Ward, who runs European
fixed-income sales and trading, will assume Mr. Diamond's
responsibilities. "We have a very deep bench of talent in
this area," a spokeswoman said.