Mutual Funds:
   Funds Are Awash in Torrents of Cash
   ----
   By Jonathan Clements
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
January's stock-fund inflow was the second largest ever,
just behind the $7.4 billion record set a month earlier. Last
month's $7.9 billion bond-fund buying binge wasn't a record.
But it still ranks as one of the biggest inflows of cash
enjoyed by bond funds in the past five years.
   The figures from the Investment Company Institute, a
mutual fund trade group, reflect new fund sales less
redemptions, plus the net result of switches among funds
within the same fund group. Reinvested dividends are
excluded.
   The new cash flooding into stock funds is helping to buoy
stock prices. Indeed, stock-fund managers seem to be as
exuberant about the stock market as their investors. At the
end of January, cash as a percentage of stock-fund assets
stood at 7.9%, the lowest level in eight years. Stockfund
managers spent all the new money they got in from investors
in January, plus they moved an additional $870 million out of
their cash holdings and into the stock market.
   Fund groups say that February's sales of stock and bond
funds haven't quite matched January's feverish pace, though
cash flows are still at historically very high levels.
   But even as the rush of cash slows somewhat, investors
seem to be increasing the amount of risk they are willing to
take. Funds that invest in small stocks were among the
bestsellers this month at Oppenheimer Management Corp.,
Massachusetts Financial Services and Scudder, Stevens 
Clark, while Putnam Cos. has seen big cash inflows into one
of its aggressive growth-stock funds. At Vanguard Group, the
top-selling bond fund this month has been its high-yielding
junk bond fund.
   Investors have been pouring cash into stock and bond funds
largely because of the sharp drop in short-term interest
rates. Money market funds, for instance, are now yielding
less than 4%, versus 7% for many bond funds.
   "There are two things that could slow this down," says
William Shiebler, a Putnam senior managing director. "One
would be an increase in interest rates. And the other would
be a reversal of any magnitude in the stock market."
   During February, bond fund inflows fell at fund groups
like Fidelity Investments, T. Rowe Price Associates, Scudder
and Vanguard, which all sell their funds directly to the
public and charge little or nothing in the way of sales
commissions, or "loads."
   "The {bond fund} business is still strong, but not as
strong as it has been," says Michael Hines, a Fidelity senior
vice president. Fidelity had stronger stock fund sales in
February, but many other no-load fund groups say their stock
fund inflows were down for the month.
   The slowdown in mutual fund sales is less evident at
broker-sold fund groups. Oppenheimer and Shearson Lehman
Brothers say their fund sales are modestly lower in February,
while Massachusetts Financial and Putnam say inflows are
somewhat higher.
   AMG Data Services, an Arcata, Calif., firm that tracks the
weekly cash flows at 3,500 mutual funds, says bond and stock
fund inflows remain large, though they are running slightly
behind January's levels. "The money appears to be continuing
to flow in, fairly consistently and fairly strongly," says
Robert Adler, AMG's president. He noted that money continues
to flow into bond funds "despite declining markets in bonds
from the middle of January through the current time."
   This rise in interest rates has hurt the performance of
bond funds, which are down an average 0.7% so far this year,
according to Lipper Analytical Services. This may account for
the slight slowdown in bond fund inflows this month.
   At TNE Fund Group, which has continued to enjoy large
bond-fund inflows, the share price of its intermediate-term
bond fund has dropped modestly as interest rates have risen,
prompting some phone calls from concerned shareholders.
"We've had calls from people wanting to understand what's
going on with the fund," says Bruce Speca, a TNE senior vice
president. "People forget what a bond fund can do."
   Stock funds have posted average gains of 2.6% so far this
year. But despite good performance, many stock funds have
missed out on the flurry of cash from investors. Strategic
Insight, a New York mutual fund consulting firm, calculates
that 56 funds accounted for 80% of the cash flow into stock
funds in 1991. Another 530 stock funds suffered net cash
outflows.
   Even with over 1,300 stock funds available, "investors are
not as confused as we like to believe," says Avi Nachmany, an
analyst with Strategic Insight. "The funds that got the money
are the ones that have the good long-term records."
   Tim Pitts, an Oppenheimer executive vice president, says
the stock and bond fund sales boom is being fed by more than
just lower short-term interest rates. He thinks it is also
driven by concerns about retirement among aging baby boomers.
   "You get to be like me, you're 43 and {retirement is} not
that far away anymore," says Mr. Pitts. "We're looking at a
secular trend here, as people shift assets to try and get
better returns on their investments. Thus far, the market has
been pretty good to them."