REVIEW  OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   Regulatory Reversal
The questions aren't meant to be churlish, but to examine
how the Bush presidency lost its way on such a core plank of
economic policy. The man who as vice president in the '80s
headed up a deregulatory task force has somehow presided as
President over an explosion of new government controls over
American life. While some new policy making reflects an
understandable desire to promote such goals as cleaner air,
the Bush administration lost its grip on the scope and cost
of these efforts.
   It's worth recalling the birth of the deregulation
movement. The political reaction against overregulation began
not as a tenet of Reaganomics, but under the presidency of
Democrat Jimmy Carter. It was heralded by economists both
left (Brookings) and right (American Enterprise Institute) as
a way to let market forces replace bureaucratic diktat and so
reduce the costs of pursuing regulatory goals. Airline and
trucking deregulation were among the Carter administration's
deregulatory hallmarks.
   The Reagan administration built on the Carter momentum by
strengthening the White House Office of Information and
Regulatory Affairs (OIRA), giving it the power to provide a
sanity check on new regulations. You knew it was a great
success for the economy by how loudly the Naderites howled.
They promptly set up a "public-interest" group called OMB
Watch to give horrified quotes to reporters. But by and large
the political battle was joined, and excessive regulation
kept in check.
   Now we have the amazing spectacle of the Bush White House
declaring a "regulatory moratorium." Problems like this don't
just happen in Washington. They are the result of senior
officials making a conscious decision to intervene, or to
step aside and let the status quo have its way. In its odd
zeal to appear different from the Reagan administration, the
Bush team more or less decided to step away from the
deregulatory fight.
   The crucial OIRA job has never had a permanent political
appointee in the Bush years. Budget Director Richard Darman,
OIRA's supervisor, had no time for what he considered a
policy backwater. When President Bush finally did nominate an
OIRA head, James Blumstein of Vanderbilt, he was held hostage
by Senator John Glenn. Mr. Darman did little to help, and
after a year of waiting Mr. Blumstein withdrew his name.
   Yet an OIRA boss was needed more than ever because other
Bush appointees turned out to be virtual Joan Claybrooks. At
the Environmental Protection Agency, the Two Bills, Reilly
and Rosenberg, made little attempt to moderate the regulatory
burdens of the new Clean Air Act. According to a study by
Melinda Warren of Washington University, EPA spending has
jumped 31% and its staffing by 23% in the Bush era.
   Sam Skinner's Transportation Department wrote needlessly
broad mandates for the Americans With Disabilities Act. The
EPA interpreted Mr. Bush's campaign promise of "no net loss"
of wetlands so unfairly that farmers and homeowners besieged
Congress with complaints. At the FDA, David Kessler, Esq., is
proving to be the plaintiff bar's new best friend.
   The Bush administration's only antidote to all of this has
been Dan Quayle's Competitiveness Council. But because the
council is so small -- it has a staff of seven -- it can't
hope to monitor the mountain of paper descending from the
bureaucracy. And because it is a lonely voice, the council
has become the favorite political target of reregulators on
Capitol Hill. The White House's other actors -- Mr. Darman,
domestic-policy aide Roger Porter -- seem more than happy to
let Mr. Quayle and his staff take all the spears in the
chest.
   In Washington culture, regulators are rewarded for
regulating. Even Cabinet members who should know better have
a strong temptation to appease their patrons in Congress,
special interests and the permanent bureaucracy. This is all
the more reason for a President to appoint the right people
and to send a message from the White House about the costs in
jobs and income of regulatory overkill. We hope that with his
90-day ban, Mr. Bush has finally decided to send that
message.