Washington Wire:
   A Special Weekly Report From
   The Wall Street Journal's
   Capital Bureau
   ----
   By Ronald G. Shafer
Bush may look for a quicker foreign policy boost. He could
order bombing raids on Iraqi weapons facilities if Saddam
Hussein refuses to let U.N. inspectors dismantle them next
week. One political risk is that a raid might be damaging if
there were any U.S. casualties.
   Even a muted Buchanan campaign might still rattle Bush.
One line making the rounds: "If Buchanan came out against
animal rights tomorrow, Millie would be in deep trouble."
                                                                                                       

   NOT TOO BULLISH: Bush is cautioned not to oversell signals
of an upturn.
   White House advisers, burned last spring when they
predicted a recovery that never came, warn that overplaying
recent upbeat news could backfire this fall. They fear growth
may not rise much above 2% this year, far below the 6% boom
that followed the last recession. Slow growth could cause the
jobless rate to pop above the current 7.3% level, as more
people look for jobs.
   Signs of slow recovery in the fall of 1980 didn't help
Carter. Bush advisers still hope the Fed will provide more
juice to ensure a recovery by this year's election. Fed
officials show no interest in pushing rates lower. But a
sharp rise in the dollar against the yen due to Japan's
economic troubles may add pressure to cut rates again.
                                                                                                       

   BOUNCED CHECKS generate angry pressure to bounce House
leaders.
   Many Democrats blame Speaker Foley for letting the
check-writing scandal spin out of control. No one is
organizing yet, but Foley's chances for reelection to the top
House post next year could plummet if dozens of Democrats
lose. "The leadership was not quick to be alerted to the
dangers" of the scandal, says Kansas Rep. Glickman, and Foley
"is the chief leader."
   On the GOP side, Georgia Rep. Gingrich's demands for full
disclosure of check bouncers is seen as a prelude for a run
at House party leader Michel, who also moved cautiously in
the scandal. But Gingrich privately resisted full disclosure
at first, which would have revealed his upwards of 30 bad
checks, far more than the three checks he disclosed a few
months ago.
   California Rep. Lewis, a possible Gingrich rival for the
top House GOP slot, is quick to say he bounced no checks.
                                                                                                       

   RUBBER BAND: Among check bouncers now facing reelection
threats, Democratic Texas Rep. Wilson adds the problem of
loaning $10,000 to his 1990 campaign via an overdraft. New
York Rep. Mrazek's Senate bid is likely to be killed. And GOP
Rep. Edwards of Oklahoma is likely to get a Democratic
challenger, which he doesn't have now.
                                                                                                       

   BEST DEFENSE? After Cheney acknowledged check overdrafts,
aides noted that staffers sometimes helped organize the
former House member's bills and checks. The defense chief
portrays himself an innocent victim compared to "flagrant
abusers," but his 25 bad checks only were over nine months he
then was in Congress; at that rate, over the full period
covered he would have bounced over 100 checks.
                                                                                                       

   BALANCED TICKET: Though speculation about a Clinton
running mate focuses on Sens. Bradley, Rockefeller or Kerrey,
a dark horse is Pennsylvania Sen. Wofford. His experience,
maturity and clean image could help the Arkansan. Clinton's
top political adviser, James Carville, masterminded Wofford's
upset win last November.
                                                                                                       

   WILLIE HORTON REDUX? Floyd Brown, the political consultant
behind the independent GOP campaign in 1988 that paid for the
Willie Horton ads, plans another attack on the 1992
Democratic nominee. He hopes to spend at least as much as the
$10 million he spent four years ago.
                                                                                                       

   JEWISH LEADERS seethe at the growing chill in U.S.-Israeli
relations.
   Some say the White House wrongly implied Bush would meet
with U.S. Jewish leaders before his decision this week in
which he rejected a compromise on loan guarantees to Israel.
Some Jewish GOP supporters publicly complain about the
president's decision. Other Israel backers urge Clinton to
condemn Bush's Israeli policies.
   Reports about Israel's unauthorized transfers of U.S.
weapons technology add to the strains. Some U.S. officials
say the Pentagon may be less inclined to do business with
Israel. A classified report by the State Department's
inspector general will show that Israel improperly sold more
items than those already disclosed.
   As Jewish anger mounts, "I'm hearing it's very difficult
to be a Jewish Republican these days," says the
Anti-Defamation League's Jesse Hordes.
                                                                                                       

   MINOR MEMOS: Greyhound One: The Transit Union writes Jerry
Brown to protest his use of a Greyhound bus in his campaign;
union members at Greyhound were replaced after a 1990 strike.
. . . Battle of the vowels: The House race in Illinois's
third district pits Democratic Rep. William Lipinski against
GOP challenger Harry Lepinske. . . . Ralph Nader calls the
House bank flap "a scandal of checks and imbalances."