New Hampshire as It Was -- and Is
   ----
   By David Shribman
New Hampshire is, as anyone born, reared or educated here
will tell you, different. That's the magic of the place.
There's something in the wolf-winds, or in the stony fields,
or in the mountain fastnesses, that sets it apart. Something
in the tax code, too: There's no broad-based sales or income
tax here.
   Even so, it's a strange place to hold the preliminaries of
the presidential campaign. Pretending that New Hampshire is
like the rest of the country is a little like pretending --
as George Bush is doing up here, to great amusement -- that
the president is like the common man.
   The nation is about 12% black; African-Americans
constitute about half of one percent of New Hampshire's
population. Three out of five households are headed by
married couples here, far above the national average. "This
is a demographic version of the 1950s Chevrolet ads -- it's
what a lot of people wish we were but aren't," says Kay
Mussell, who teaches American Studies at the American
University in Washington, D.C. "Demographically it's out of
synch with the electorate at large."
   But the presidential race starts here, in a setting that
early explorers noted for its "goodly groves and woods and
sundry sorts of beasts, but no people." The groves, woods and
beasts are still here, only slightly the worse for wear, but
now the state has a million people and it is something of a
force in high technology. Most of the state is now even
within range of television signals, though in some houses
around here the ABC station comes in downstairs but not
upstairs.
   But while it may not be like the rest of the country, New
Hampshire isn't what you think either.
   In the past two decades the state has grown by about 50%.
A decade ago Derry, N.H., had a population of under 20,000
and governed itself the traditional way, with a town meeting
where everyone had the chance to crowd into the hall, raise
his hand, speak his mind and cast his vote on matters big and
small. Now the city, where Robert Frost himself once lived
and farmed, has a population of about 30,000 and has
abandoned the town meeting for a mayor and council.
   The workers of Hillsborough County, in southern New
Hampshire, used to toil in the mills of Nashua and
Manchester, one of the most formidable industrial areas in
the world. Now most of them get in their cars and drive into
Massachusetts, many to the technology corridor of Route 128.
   The result, says former Republican attorney general Thomas
Rath, is that the character of the region has been
transformed. "We have changed from a manufacturing economy to
a service economy, and a lot of the people who live here are
only in the state during the eight to 12 hours during which
they eat and sleep," he says. "They are not part of the
traditional ethos of the state."
   New Hampshire, moreover, is not the insulated rural
redoubt it used to be. In the old days, there were colorful
conservatives such as Meldrim Thomson, who made his mark with
his own maple syrup that he boiled in the sugar house up on
Mount Cube. Mr. Thomson was elected to three terms as
governor with his "ax the tax" mantra but is best known
nationally for thinking about equipping the National Guard
with nuclear weapons. The late William Loeb, the fiery editor
of the Manchester Union Leader, referred to President
Eisenhower as "Dopey Dwight," called President Ford "Jerry
the Jerk" and described Oliver Wendell Holmes as an "old
goat."
   The growth has had its costs. There are malls in the state
now, though one of the biggest actually has its parking lot
in Massachusetts, and there are some truly awful real-estate
developments, many of them just about empty right now.
Candidates are seldom asked to clutch a squealing rooster
close to their breast, as Sen. Robert Taft was in 1952, an
incident that prompted the most searing scowl in the state's
history.
   But not all is lost. The state still has a hometown
feeling to it. A remarkable number of people have their first
names on their license plates. You can still buy anything
from a snow plow to a cutlery set at Nichols Hardware in Lyme
-- and come away with advice about how to clean either of
them. The other day the president of Dartmouth College
strolled over to the press room in the state capitol in
Concord and told the political reporter for the Union Leader
that he still remembers his wife as the prettiest girl in his
class at Manchester Central High.
   ---
   Mr. Shribman, a member of the Journal's Washington bureau,
covers national politics.