Manager's Journal:
   Not Your Type, but Right for the Job
   ----
   By Ernest Auerbach
The MBTI was designed by Isabel Myers and her mother,
Katharine Briggs, in the 1950s and owes a nod to the Jungian
theory of psychological types. It has been used extensively
by psychologists and consultants, and books about it -- such
as "Please Understand Me" (Prometheus, 1984) by David Keirsey
and Marilyn Bates -- are widely available. The MBTI is
up-to-date. Just recently a new expert systems program called
Negotiator Pro came on the market. Meant to hone negotiating
skills, one program component of the software package asks
the user to judge the personalities of everyone involved in
the negotiation based on the MBTI.
   So how does the MBTI work? It identifies 16 different
patterns of action, based on four pairs of characteristics.
The four characteristics are as follows:
                                                                                                       

   Extraversion vs. Introversion: The person who selects
people as a source of energy usually tends toward
extraversion while the person who chooses solitude to gain
energy probably tends toward introversion. Extraversion is
characterized by E and introversion by I.
                                                                                                       

   Intuition vs. Sensation: A person who has a preference for
sensation probably describes himself or herself as practical
and factual, S. Someone who has a natural preference for
intuition probably would be described as innovative and
facile with ideas, N.
                                                                                                       

   Thinking vs. Feeling: Those who choose the logical basis
of choice are called Thinkers, T, and those who choose the
personal basis are Feelers, F.
                                                                                                       

   Judging vs. Perceiving: Those who prefer closure over open
options are judging types, J, while those who prefer to keep
things open as they consider additional options are
perceivers, P.
                                                                                                       

   You need only answer the 96 indicator questions and you
will have your type. Here is the full list of types, and
short labels given by Keirsey and Bates:
                                                                                                       

   INTP (Architect)             ESFJ (Seller)
   ENTP (Inventor)              ISFJ (Conservator)
   INTJ (Scientist)             ESFP (Entertainer)
   ENTJ (Fieldmarshal)          ISFP (Artist)
   INFP (Questor)               ESTJ (Administrator)
   ENFP (Journalist)            ISTJ (Trustee)
   INFJ (Author)                ESTP (Promotior)
   ENFJ (Pedagogue)             ISTP (Artisan)
                                                                                                       

   For the sake of brevity, let's look at just half of these
types, their labels, and some attributes that Mr. Keirsey and
Ms. Bates give them.
                                                                                                       

   Pedagogue -- ENFJ. These are outstanding leaders of
groups. They often have charisma. They have the charming
characteristic of appearing to take for granted that they
will have a following. They place value on cooperation from
others and are willing to cooperate themselves.
                                                                                                       

   Author -- INFJ. This person focuses on possibilities,
thinks in terms of values, and comes easily to decisions.
INFJs have a strong drive to help others and genuinely enjoy
assisting their fellow men. They have depth of personality,
are complicated, and understand complexity.
                                                                                                       

   Journalist -- ENFP. This type has an uncanny sense of the
motivation of others, which gives ENFPs a talent for seeing
life as exciting drama, full of possibilities for both good
and evil.
                                                                                                       

   Questor -- INFP. The questor presents a calm face to the
world. Although questors demonstrate a cool reserve toward
others, inside they have a capacity for caring that is not
always found in other types. This type is idealistic and is
found in only 1% of the population.
                                                                                                       

   Fieldmarshal -- ENTJ. The fieldmarshal needs to lead.
ENTJs have a strong urge to give structure wherever they are
and to assign people to long-range goals. These people search
more for policy and goals than for regulations and
procedures. This type rejects inefficiency, and error
repetition causes them to be impatient.
                                                                                                       

   Scientist -- INTJ. This is the most confident of all
types, having self-power awareness. The scientist focuses on
possibilities, using thinking in the form of empirical logic.
INTJs look to the future rather than to the past. This type
doesn't often succumb to the magic of slogans. Authority
doesn't impress the INTJ.
                                                                                                       

   Inventor -- ENTP. The inventors wish to exercise their
ingenuity in the world of people and things. They deal
imaginatively with social relationships. They are good at
functional analysis and have both a tolerance for and
enjoyment of the complex. They are delighted by many things
and are easy to please. They look for better ways to do
things.
                                                                                                       

   Architect -- INTP. This type exhibits the greatest
precision in thought and language of all the types. INTPs,
who make up only 1% of the population, detect contradictions
in statements no matter how distant in space or time the
contradictions were produced. INTPs can become obsessed with
analysis, and can be intellectual snobs.
                                                                                                       

   The MBTI has been well documented over a 40-year period.
Since it describes preferences rather than skills or
abilities, it says that all preferences are equally
important.
   Had I known the MBTI as I built teams of people to solve
business problems, it would have enhanced clarity and
smoothed working relations. The MBTI, while no panacea, is
simple and inexpensive to administer, and it opens one's eyes
to the richness and variety of people around us. And as an
ENTJ, a type associated with military officers (I'm a retired
Army colonel) and corporate executives, I'd recommend
immediate implementation of the MBTI.
   ---
   Mr. Auerbach, an attorney, is president & CEO of a
technology company.