Enterprise:
   Joint Ventures in Russia Face Unexpected Roadblocks
   ---
   Caviar Producer Deals Directly With
   Fishermen to Avoid Bureaucrats
   ----
   By Eugene Carlson
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The surprise roadblock by the low-level bureaucrat
jeopardized the entire first year's production of Mr.
Engstrom's unusual venture, a foreign-operated caviar factory
in independent Russia. Mr. Engstrom is president of
California Sunshine Fine Foods Inc., a San Francisco
gourmet-food company.
   "Everything was agreed upon. All the documents were
there," Mr. Engstrom recalls. "Then he {the customs agent}
began to hint that it was unpatriotic to export Russian
products. I was flabbergasted. I pounded my fist on the
table."
   After two trips to Moscow to meet with senior customs
officials, and some quiet diplomacy with the local agent, Mr.
Engstrom managed to get half the caviar released. The other
two tons remain stored in eastern Russia.
   The collapse of communism is the sort of
once-in-a-lifetime opportunity that sets entrepreneurs
salivating at thoughts of untapped resources and vast new
consumer markets. But the vision can be deceiving. Old Soviet
habits and loyalties die hard, and as the economy makes the
transition to capitalism, it sometimes seems that nobody is
in charge.
   Yet some small foreign companies, like California
Sunshine, are trying to beat the odds through risk-taking,
perseverance and a dash of outside consulting help.
   "Americans are ill-equipped to deal in Russia," says
Robert Lee, president of World Class Products Ltd., Portland,
Ore., who heads a consulting joint venture in that country.
"The sense of business ethics and business law as Americans
know them doesn't exist." But, he adds, "There is a place for
small business in Russia."
   Mr. Engstrom, the 55-year-old caviar producer, found
plenty of trouble in establishing his place, however. He is
hardly naive about international business. A Swedish national
and Harvard Business School graduate, he started selling
crayfish to Europe in 1975, and moved into crab, salmon and
sturgeon processing. Then he turned to caviar, which he
markets under the Tsar Nicoulai label.
   He got outside help in getting started, from Mr. Lee, the
consultant. But caviar also posed peculiarly Russian
challenges in the midst of communism's collapse.
   Under the old regime, the best-known Soviet caviar was
produced solely from Caspian Sea sturgeon. A state agency
kept prices high by allowing just a small share of annual
production to be exported.
   But now four newly independent republics, plus Iran,
border the Caspian Sea. And, with state control absent, there
has been an increase in bootleg caviar. Fishermen, producers
and others with access to caviar peddle tins of it on the
sly.
   Mr. Engstrom brings considerable expertise to his Russian
venture. For six years prior to 1990, he ran a caviar
processing plant on the Amur River in Manchuria, with the
blessing of China's government. He says he made money, but
was frustrated by the site's remote location, by Japanese
competition and by government inefficiency.
   In Russia, the customs official's intervention was
symbolic of Mr. Engstrom's first year. "I learned that you
absolutely do not deal with any {government} ministry or
left-over bureaucracy. These people are not trying to improve
the economy. They have only one ax to grind, and it's their
own."
   So instead, Mr. Engstrom says, he now deals directly with
the 500 fishermen who actually catch the sturgeon, through a
joint venture with the fishermen's cooperative. He says he's
paying them in hard currency and consumer goods from China.
"The fact that I'm working with grass-roots people, and they
don't have the hang-ups of the previous regime, makes me feel
much more at ease," he says.
   Elisa Miller, publisher of Russian Far East Update, a
Seattle newsletter on business trends in eastern Russia,
thinks ditching the bureaucrats in favor of the fishermen is
risky. "The old bureaucracy has enormous connections," she
says, adding, "I'm very pessimistic about what's going on
over there."
   But Mr. Engstrom thinks he is on the right track. Indeed,
California Sunshine's Russian Far East joint venture calls
for a sturgeon hatchery, similar to one the company operates
on California's Sacramento River. Mr. Engstrom says he's
installing the Russian hatchery at a cost of about $100,000
on an intercontinental ballistic missile base now being
decommissioned as part of the U.S.-Soviet arms reduction
pact. The base's military personnel will run the hatchery, he
says.
   And though he goes directly to the workers, he hasn't left
the old-style bureaucrats in the lurch. Asked if he expects a
customs problem this fall, when an anticipated 10 tons of
caviar will be ready for export, he says, "I've learned to
have the right connections."
   Earl Romans, president of Alaskan Battery Inc., Fairbanks,
Alaska, also has learned a thing or two. He watched
helplessly in April 1990 as agents of the KGB, the state
security agency, confiscated 3,000 batteries that he had
manufactured for export under a joint venture in the Russian
Far East city of Magadan.
   But Mr. Romans had an energetic Russian partner, Valentin
Tsvetkov, and together they lobbied Russian legislators in
Moscow and gained sympathetic stories in the Russian press.
The batteries were finally released. Moreover, the Russian
government paid Mr. Tsvetkov the equivalent of $150,000 in
damages. The plant is back in operation, turning out 200
batteries a day, and Mr. Romans is pursuing his own $150,000
damage claim.
   "Earl's strength is that he has a fortunate marriage with
a very capable Russian partner who is very good at making
things happen within the Russian system," says Anchorage
attorney Gregg Brelsford, who represents Mr. Romans.
   While his client came out ahead, Mr. Brelsford strikes a
note of caution for entrepreneurs. The Russian business
climate, he says, is "very, very risky. There really are no
rules."