New EPA Rules
   On Air Pollution
   Blocked by Bush
   ---
   Regulations Would Prove
   Too Costly for Business,
   Administration Warns
   ----
   By Bob Davis and Rose Gutfeld
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
Administration officials said the council, as well as
other White House regulatory officials, are preventing the
EPA from releasing rules that would establish an expanded
system of reporting releases of air pollutants. Under the
plan, a wide range of companies -- including manufacturers,
oil refineries and dry cleaners and bakers -- would have to
get permits from state pollution authorities specifying that
their emissions don't exceed limits under the Clean Air Act.
The rules were to have been released as early as today.
   EPA officials have made clear they wouldn't agree to the
White House plan and say the issue is still being negotiated.
   The EPA wants to require companies to give state
regulators 45 days notice before making operating changes
that cause small increases in emissions. The notice would
allow for public hearings, where environmentalists and others
could object to the changes and ask regulators to block them.
   The EPA considers the rules crucial to administering the
Clean Air Act and reducing air pollution. But White House
officials say the rules are too onerous and costly for
business, and have battled with the EPA over earlier
proposals on permits. Now, they are using the president's
moratorium to bolster their arguments.
   A senior administration official said the White House
Competitiveness Council is pushing a plan under which
companies could make changes in their operations after giving
regulators two weeks to object. There would be no public
hearings and no formal opportunity for environmentalists to
stop the changes. Instead, the EPA and state regulators would
be charged with monitoring the changes to see that businesses
are complying with the permitted level of emissions.
   About 34,000 industrial facilities will be covered by the
permits, which will set differing standards depending on the
type of plant and emissions. Administration officials
acknowledge regulators couldn't possibly check on all those
facilities.
   "We'd be relying on EPA and state regulators" to police
the permits, a senior administration official said. "They'll
watch facilities they think have gone wrong."
   In addition, the EPA had been planning to give small
businesses a special temporary exemption from the permit
rules. But the council wants to make the exemptions permanent
for small businesses.
   The White House says it considers the permit system unduly
burdensome on business. Getting a permit initially could take
18 months, the administration calculates, and it wants to
make sure that businesses don't need to repeat that process
after making only small changes. Officials contend that an
auto paint shop that switches from red paint to green paint
could be forced to get a permit revision because the green
paint may contain more smog-causing pollutants.
   However, environmentalists contend that substantially
easing the permit system would create a huge loophole in the
Clean Air Act that would allow companies to increase their
pollution significantly without anyone knowing.
   Regulations arising from the Clean Air Act are supposedly
exempt from the regulatory moratorium because they are based
on statutes. The White House said it won't object to permits
called for in the law, but said it has the right to modify
the scope of the permits as well as the requirements for
revisions. The EPA is already late in issuing permit
regulations under the Clean Air Act, largely because of
fights with the White House.
   Environmental issues are clearly a central target of the
regulatory moratorium. White House officials say they are
looking at ways to ease restrictions on wetlands development
by specifically setting aside certain areas, such as the
Everglades, while permitting development on many other areas.
   The White House formally kicked off the moratorium
yesterday in an open meeting with business lobbyists and
trade association heads. The administration outlined several
steps, most of which have already been announced, to help
businesses get access to capital.
   The Internal Revenue Service also said it would ease
reporting requirements under the payroll tax system. Among
the changes the IRS plans is allowing companies to make
payroll tax payments electronically from their bank accounts.
The White House contends that changing the payroll tax system
could save companies $6 billion in annual paperwork costs.