Commodities:
   Crop Futures Jump on Belief Bush Will Offer
   Additional Food Aid to Former Soviet Republics
   ----
   By Scott Kilman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Some traders believe that momentum is building for the
White House to offer additional food aid because Western
nations such as Germany and Canada are sweetening their
assistance to the Commonwealth of Independent States.
   The outcome of the weekend meeting between President Bush
and Russian leader Boris Yeltsin also signaled to traders
that additional U.S. food aid is possible. At the meeting,
the leaders agreed that the two nations have stopped
considering each other as "potential adversaries." Both sides
also agreed to reduce their nuclear weapons.
   "We in the trade are beginning to feel better about the
chances for additional food aid," said Daniel W. Basse,
director of market research at AgResource Co., Chicago.
   Traders aren't clear about how much additional food aid to
expect, or when it might become effective. The most likely
time frame is this summer. The White House has already agreed
to make available $650 million in food loan guarantees from
February through April. After the spring, the former Soviet
republics aren't eligible for additional U.S.-backed loan
guarantees until the fall.
   The topic is expected to be raised by representatives of
the commonwealth's grain importing agency, Exportkhleb, who
are slated to meet with U.S. government officials and grain
industry executives this week.
   Wheat prices reacted sharply to the speculation because
domestic stockpiles are growing tight. U.S. wheat prices have
climbed roughly 50% since July and the rally is even having
an effect on the oat market. Farmers in the northern Plains
are expected to plant more land to wheat this spring in order
to take advantage of the rally. To make room for wheat, some
farmers will probably sacrifice their oat acreage.
   As a result, oat prices are also climbing. In trading at
the Chicago Board of Trade, the oat contract for March
delivery jumped 9.75 cents a bushel to settle at $1.625.
Prices of oat futures contracts have climbed about 19% so far
this year.
   Soybean and corn prices also rose.
   In other commodity markets yesterday:
                                                                                                       

   ENERGY: Crude oil futures prices rose in New York
Mercantile trading that was extremely low key. Many market
participants simply sat tight, leery of making any
significant moves ahead of tomorrow's meeting in Vienna
between Iraqi and United Nations officials on possible crude
oil sales by Iraq. March crude gained six cents a barrel to
settle at $18.96 yesterday, while April crude was nine cents
a barrel higher. Outer months were higher, as well. Volume
was a relatively anemic 42,843 contracts in crude oil. March
heating oil ended the day a bit lower, while March gasoline
gained 0.68 cent a gallon.
                                                                                                       

   COFFEE: Futures prices continued to tumble toward their
lowest level since October 1989. Coffee for March delivery
traded as low as 69.90 cents a pound before settling at 70.50
cents, down 1.65 cents. Bearish sentiment continues to deepen
as hopes dim for a price-support plan emerging out of this
week's International Coffee Organization meeting in London.
Producers who had held back hoping for a rebound in prices
are now selling, putting pressure on prices, said Judy Ganes,
senior analyst at Merrill Lynch. Moreover, commodity funds
who have positions betting the price will fall see no reason
to take profits while prices continue to weaken, she said.
Sandra Kaul, analyst at Shearson Lehman Brothers, predicted
prices will test the 68.30-cent low of 1989, which itself was
the lowest price since the early 1970s.
                                                                                                       

   SUGAR: Futures prices fell despite reports Russia is
planning a big purchase. Sugar for March delivery lost 0.18
cent a pound to settle at eight cents. Reports that Russia
was planning to buy more than three million tons of white and
raw sugar failed to halt sugar's slide, analysts said,
because of skepticism about its ability to pay for such a
large purchase. Perceptions of oversupply still dog the
market, with Thailand, Brazil, Cuba and India all seen as
having sugar to sell, an analyst said. Prices are likely to
weaken until March or April, when planting decisions for the
199293 season start being made, she said. Separately, the
Coffee, Sugar  Cocoa Exchange launched serial options in its
sugar market yesterday. An option is an agreement allowing an
investor to buy or sell a futures contract for a certain
price within a stipulated time. Serial options are short-life
options that provide additional option expirations on
existing futures contracts.