Return of the Little Guy Helped
   Fatten Brokers' Paychecks in '91
   ----
   By Michael Siconolfi
   Staff Reporter of the Wall Street Journal
Behind the recently pumped-up pay is surging revenue at
many brokerage firms, which has been fueled by individuals'
increasing interest in the market. With declining interest
rates, many small investors have been shifting out of
low-yielding certificates of deposit and money-market funds
into stocks and bonds in a bid to bolster returns.
   "Short-term rates have gotten so shockingly low that many
retail investors have gotten into stocks, bonds and mutual
funds," which generate the lion's share of brokers'
commissions, says Guy Moszkowski, an analyst at Sanford C.
Bernstein & Co.
   Another reason for last year's higher pay: the dwindling
number of brokers. The nation's broker force has fallen about
16% from a high of nearly 93,000 in 1987, the trade
association says.
   Many of those who didn't make it were young brokers who
earned the paltriest pay, leaving higher-paying brokers, says
Adrian L. Banky, an executive vice president and general
manager at the trade association. Mr. Banky nevertheless says
last year's higher pay primarily was "driven by the increased
individual-investor activity in '91."
   But this year's investor interest and, thus, broker pay,
is likely to be lower, some analysts say. "There will be
continued strong retail activity, but not quite as buoyant as
in '91," Mr. Moszkowski says.
   Meantime, broker payouts -- or the percentage of
commissions they retain -- has leveled off and is dropping,
after steadily rising for a couple of decades. Brokers now
keep on average of 38% of their commissions, down from a high
of nearly 42% in 1981, the securities trade group says. Many
brokers are paid on a so-called grid, which gives them a
bigger chunk of commissions the more they generate.
   Those commissions generated totaled an average of $246,000
a broker last year, the trade association says. That's up 18%
from $209,000 in 1990 and equal to that of 1987, the trade
group says.
   Unlike salaries in most of corporate America, the pay of
many brokers is tied directly to the trading commissions they
bring in. In recent years, however, brokerage firms have been
moving steadily toward paying brokers for the client money
they bring in to the firm and how well they treat those
clients -- and not for the amount of trades they generate.
   This typically is done by arranging "wrap accounts"
directing clients' money for an annual fee to a handful of
professional portfolio managers. This means brokers earn more
if their clients do.
   "More brokers are focusing on generating fee income from
mutual fund `trail' commissions and wrap accounts," says Dan
Jamieson, an editor at Registered Representative, a trade
journal for stockbrokers. He says 64% of the brokers recently
surveyed by the magazine said they would like to cultivate
more fee-based accounts.
   Switching to more fee-based accounts has helped some
brokers earn more-stable income. Alexander Wood, a
stockbroker for Advest Inc. in Hanover, N.H., says that with
80% of his income derived from feebased business, his pay
"doesn't jump upwards during the boom times, but doesn't get
clobbered during slow periods, either."