Law --
   A Senior Wall Street Woman Asks:
   Why Is My Bonus Thinner Than His?
   ----
   By Michael Siconolfi
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The case is part of a rising tide of sexual discrimination
cases on Wall Street. The number of such cases filed against
securities firms jumped 50% in 1991 from a year earlier. But
this suit has drawn attention because the executive,
Elizabeth Sobol, appears to be the highest-ranking woman on
Wall Street to have filed such a discrimination case,
securities lawyers say.
   In the suit, filed this week in U.S. District Court here,
Ms. Sobol accused the General Electric Co. unit of doling out
skimpier bonuses to her than to male managing directors with
similar responsibility and experience. Ms. Sobol, a 10-year
Kidder veteran, headed the firm's utility finance department,
with 18 investment-banking professionals reporting to her,
the complaint says. She resigned from Kidder in April 1991.
   Although women hold 40% of the jobs at the nation's 10
largest securities firms, they make up just 4% of all
partners and managing directors -- Wall Street's most coveted
and highly paid positions. Ms. Sobol was one of just four
women among Kidder's 83 U.S. managing directors in 1989. The
firm was ranked the No. 5 underwriter of U.S. bond and stock
issues in 1991 by Securities Data Co.
   A Kidder spokeswoman yesterday declined to comment on the
suit.
   Ms. Sobol, like other Wall Street investment bankers,
received a pay package consisting of salary and a bonus. The
complaint asserts that Ms. Sobol was one of Kidder's top
producers and managed one of the firm's most profitable
departments. But she was "paid less than males whose jobs
required comparable skills, effort and responsibilities," the
complaint says. "Based on her level of performance,
plaintiff's total compensation, if she had been male, would
have been substantially higher."
   At the peak, she received about $700,000 in pay, according
to her lawyer, Jeffrey L. Liddle of Liddle, O'Connor,
Finkelstein & Robinson in New York. Despite her success and
relatively high compensation, "the disparity in her pay vs.
comparably situated males seems to be pretty much similar to
the national average," Mr. Liddle said.
   Despite recent improvements, American women in executive
and administrative managerial jobs still make about 65% of
the salary of their male counterparts, according to the U.S.
Department of Labor. Thus, Wall Street pay practices may be
no worse than those of corporate America as a whole, only on
a much higher level.
   Ms. Sobol's suit seeks unspecified back pay for the years
1986 through 1991 "in the amount equal to the differential"
between her pay and that of similarly situated male managing
directors.
   In a separate action, Ms. Sobol also has filed a claim
with the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission accusing
Kidder of discrimination regarding her departure last April.