Foreign Exchange:
   Dollar Posts Modest Gain Against Yen
   In Choppy Trading Lacking Direction
   ----
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
The dollar see-sawed during the day, reacting to news
reports and technical factors, traders said. The market is
awaiting "solid news" on the Japan-U.S. trade talks and the
U.S. economy during the next few days, said Joseph Sabbagh,
chief trader at European American Capital Corp., who added
that the dollar is "ready for major movements."
   In late New York trading, the dollar was quoted at 124.35
yen, up from 123.98 yen late Tuesday. It was unchanged at
1.5075 marks. Sterling was trading at $1.8780, down from
$1.8855.
   In early trading in Tokyo Thursday, the dollar was at
124.40 yen, unchanged from Wednesday's close. The U.S.
currency also was trading at 1.5090 marks, down from 1.5093
marks on Wednesday.
   The dollar's modest gains against most major currencies
resulted after dealers tested support and resistance levels
at both ends of the unit's recent ranges.
   The dollar had strengthened after an early statement by
Messrs. Bush and Miyazawa that recent foreign-exchange
movements "were consistent with current economic
developments." The market initially took this as an
indication the leaders wouldn't try to boost the value of the
yen against the dollar. The dollar fell in recent weeks on
expectations that the talks would result in a
yen-strengthening package to cut Japan's trade surplus with
the U.S.
   Yesterday's statement didn't erase the doubts, however, as
it was generally seen as non-committal. A senior Japanese
Finance Ministry official said the leaders didn't have a
specific currency level in mind when issuing the statement.
   Dealers likely will square positions ahead of tomorrow's
key U.S. employment data for December, to defend themselves
against major surprises, a trader said.
   Pressuring the dollar is speculation of a possible further
cut in U.S. interest rates if tomorrow's employment data turn
out surprisingly weak. Treasury Secretary Nicholas Brady
added to the speculation, saying in Tokyo that U.S. interest
rates are still too high.