The Outlook:
   Interest-Rate Cuts
   Still Can Work Magic
   ----
   By David Wessel
They aren't worrying now. Stock prices have soared to
records. Financial markets and banks have followed the Fed
and cut interest rates. Gold prices, which rise whenever
traders decide the Fed has gone soft on inflation, have
fallen. The Fed couldn't have hoped for a bigger payoff from
the markets.
   If only the economy would begin to show signs of
responding as well. As Mr. Greenspan himself noted a few
weeks ago, days before the Fed's Dec. 20 move, the recovery
has faltered. Forecasters predict that this week's Labor
Department report will find that employers trimmed payrolls
further last month. Even optimists don't see much growth
until spring.
   The stagnant economy is producing skepticism about the
Fed's ability to get the economy moving. After all, the Fed
has repeatedly reduced interest rates, the argument goes, and
nothing is happening. Frightened by headline-making layoffs,
consumers won't spend. Burdened with debt, businesses won't
borrow. Beaten down by regulators, bankers won't lend. In
short, doubters say, lower rates won't work.
   The residue of the 1980s is undoubtedly restraining the
economy. "There is a diminished sense of upside potential
when businesses, banks and consumers are working down past
problems rather than focusing on future growth," says Fed
Vice Chairman David Mullins.
                                                                                                       

   But common sense suggests that lower interest rates -- if
not at current levels, then at some lower level -- will
eventually get the depressed, debt-laden U.S. economy
rolling. Perhaps the Fed was tardy, but it isn't impotent.
                                                                                                       

   "The failure of the economy to recover isn't a reflection
that interest rates don't work," says William Brown, Morgan
Guaranty Trust Co.'s top economist. "What we're looking at
today is driven by where interest rates were during the
summer," he says. Through the summer, Mr. Brown says, rates
were still high if adjusted for inflation.
   Just how do interest rates work their magic? Consider the
recent wave of mortgage refinancings. On a $100,000 mortgage,
reducing the rate from 10 1/2% to 8 1/2% gives a family an
extra $150 a month. The Mortgage Bankers Association
estimated even before the recent drop in mortgage rates that
refinancings and adjustable-rate mortgages were giving
households an extra $10 billion a year to spend. Some of this
will go to pay off debt or will be saved, but surely some
will be spent. And a little more spending is just what the
economy needs.
   It works the same way in business. Many companies are
reducing interest costs by refinancing debt at lower rates or
repaying it. And as stock prices rise, whether because
investors are cheered by the Fed's activism or because
alternative investments are unattractive at today's low
rates, new stock offerings enable companies to invest more.
   Lower interest rates also indirectly help exports. When
U.S. rates fall, the dollar tends to fall, too, as it has for
two weeks. That, in turn, makes U.S. products more attractive
to foreigners because it takes fewer francs or yen to buy
them. Eventually, all this should create jobs -- offsetting
whatever depressing effect lower rates have on retirees
relying on interest income.
                                                                                                       

   The Fed's big gamble was calculated to do more. By
dropping the high-profile discount rate -- its charge on
loans to banks -- by a full percentage point, the Fed sought
to convince Congress and consumers of its determination to
get the economy growing.
                                                                                                       

   "They were trying to arrest everybody's attention," says
Harvard economist Benjamin Friedman. "Politically, it helps
give the impression they are in charge. Economically, they
are hoping to instill confidence that things are going to get
better."
   Consumers and congressmen aren't as easy to sway as the
stock market, though. "As far as the ordinary citizens are
concerned, they respond to it {Fed policy} with a
transcontinental yawn," says Fabian Linden of the Conference
Board. "The ordinary man and woman worry about the kids,
their jobs, their cars."
   Some Fed policy makers hope their uncharacteristically
bold move will lead politicians to become
uncharacteristically prudent in an election year. But the Fed
probably moved too late to slow the momentum for a tax cut.
"Actions by the Fed unreinforced by positive results in the
economic numbers aren't going to change the political
dynamic," says Robert Reischauer, director of the
Congressional Budget Office.
   Economic indicators will give plenty of reason for gloom
for a few months, and that could make a weak economy weaker.
But don't underestimate interest-rate magic.