International:
   Japan Stock-Scandal Hearings Open,
   But Damage to Miyazawa Isn't Great
   ----
   By Christopher J. Chipello
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
In separate testimony, Jun Shiozaki, a former cabinet
minister and a member of Mr. Miyazawa's faction, acknowledged
accepting a 20 million yen ($155,000) payment from Kyowa for
using personal connections to smooth relations between Kyowa
and Marubeni Corp., a major trading house.
   Testimony by the two senior politicians should end a
two-week boycott by opposition parties of budget
deliberations in the Diet. The Kyowa scandal has been
especially embarrassing to Mr. Miyazawa, because it has
focused on members of his faction. Along with other scandals
and stalled legislation, it has raised doubts about Mr.
Miyazawa's grip on power.
   To blunt criticism, Mr. Miyazawa spent the past weekend
hammering out a modest set of political-reform measures, on
which the prime minister has been accused of dragging his
feet. Since the Recruit Co. stock-for-favors scandal of the
late 1980s, the LDP has failed to deliver on promises to
clean up the political system.
   The 81-year-old Mr. Suzuki, prime minister from 1980 to
1982, had resisted appearing before the Diet and sought
instead to be questioned at home. He relented after
opposition parties agreed that he didn't have to be sworn in,
a procedure that could expose the witness to perjury charges.
   Mr. Suzuki denied reports that he accepted 10 million yen
from Kyowa. But he said he was entrusted with 10 million yen
by Fumio Abe, a Miyazawa-faction member who has been charged
with accepting 90 million yen in bribes from Kyowa. Mr.
Suzuki said Mr. Abe presented him with 10 million yen soon
after Mr. Abe was given his first cabinet post in 1989, as a
gesture of gratitude for Mr. Suzuki's support. But Mr. Suzuki
said he didn't use the cash and later returned it.
   Earlier in the day, opposition politicians grilled Mr.
Shiozaki, a former Finance Ministry tax official, on his
failure to report the payment for two years, until Kyowa's
problems surfaced. Mr. Shiozaki, who was a sworn witness,
said he had delayed reporting the money because he couldn't
decide whether to treat it as a political donation or as
taxable income, an explanation that drew sneers from the
opposition.