Media:
   Hollywood Joins Washington
   In Coveting KGB's Secrets
   ----
   By Thomas R. King
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Davis Entertainment Co.'s television unit is about to
announce that a partnership in which it's involved has
clinched a deal to acquire the "exclusive TV motion picture
and miniseries rights" to 30 selected case histories from the
files of the Soviet Union's notorious secret police
organization. The Davis group's first KGB movie project: a
story about how Moscow got the secrets to the atomic bomb,
and the roles of Klaus Fuchs and Julius and Ethel Rosenberg.
   Davis Entertainment -- the company, run by the son of oil
man Marvin Davis, that produced the hit Arnold Schwarzenegger
movie "Predator" -- identifies its partners as One World
Films Inc. of Lake City, Colo., and Contact Film Studio of
Moscow.
   But, like the current Russian political situation, the
Hollywood arrangements are fast becoming so tangled that even
the principals aren't quite sure who's calling the shots.
   Late last year, RHI Entertainment Inc. made headlines
after it issued a news release announcing an "exclusive deal"
with the KGB to produce a TV series based on the archives of
the Soviet secret police. According to a Daily Variety trade
report at the time, RHI's plans included programming based on
the KGB side of such historical events as the Cuban missile
crisis and the U-2 affair, in which an American spyplane was
shot down over the U.S.S.R.
   RHI's agreement, though, is with the old Soviet KGB, an
agency whose powers the Davis group is now questioning. RHI
executives say the company has been told that officials at
one proposed successor organization, the Ministry of Security
and Internal Affairs, in two weeks will sign an amendment
honoring the original agreement. Maybe. But the Ministry of
Security and Internal Affairs hasn't yet been officially
approved by the Parliament.
   The Davis partnership says its agreement is with the
Agency of Federal Security of Russia, the organization it
says is the surviving KGB entity that controls access to the
KGB archives.
   But experts studying the dismantling of the Soviet Union
haven't much of an idea what the new KGB will look like or
who will be in charge. For now, at least, students of events
in the old U.S.S.R. say a deal with the Russian government
may be more valuable than one with the former Soviet
government, but they quickly add that confusion reigns.
   The Davis Entertainment partnership says it has the
impression that it alone holds a legitimate contract to
produce TV movies from secret-police files. But RHI
executives dispute that.
   Says Kenneth Locker, RHI's executive vice president, his
contact in Russia expressed shock at the Davis group's
arrangement. The Russian official told him "it may even be
illegal," Mr. Locker says.
   "Nothing is definitive, and I'm not going to say that
we're going to prevail," Mr. Locker acknowledges. "But we are
dealing with a legitimate Russian organization. I feel
confident that we're dealing with people who will live up to
their word. They've assured me that every day." The RHI plan
calls for "docudramas" on a range of KGB-related stories, the
company says.
   In describing what it calls a landmark arrangement, Davis
Entertainment says the deal that its group and the Russian
agency have struck will allow the Davis group to create TV
movies featuring "top secret KGB accounts never before made
public."
   "We're going to be able to pull the blanket back and get
the information from the most secret of all organizations in
the world," says John Davis, Davis Entertainment's chief.
"It's an interesting and entertaining opportunity to
re-examine history."
   Mr. Davis and Merrill Karpf, executive vice president at
the Davis Entertainment television unit, say that, like the
RHI group, they are aiming for "exclusive" TV films showing
the KGB's involvement or point of view in the Cuban missile
crisis, and detailing its version of the U-2 affair. But they
also have set their sights on stories about joint U.S.-Soviet
operations during Operation Desert Storm in the Persian Gulf;
attempted assassinations of Roosevelt, Stalin and Churchill
in Tehran; various sightings of unidentified flying objects;
and famous women of the KGB.
   "We're mining gold," says Mr. Karpf. "There's more there
than we could ever do in 10 years. The longer we work with
them, the more we're going to find."
   But a few secrets are still being kept in Hollywood. Mr.
Davis, whose company is closely held, won't disclose terms of
the agreement, or even say if any advance payment is being
made to the KGB for access. "We're dealing with the world of
secrecy. This is the KGB," he says. If the projects do well,
he adds, there are benefits in it for all parties.
   Like the Davis group, RHI -- which last year gained
attention for paying what it said was "well over $5 million"
for TV rights to "Scarlett," the "Gone With the Wind" sequel
-- has been working with a Russian film company. Its
relationship is with Mosfilm Studios. RHI is run by TV
producer Robert Halmi, and his son, Robert Halmi Jr.
   Davis Entertainment got involved in the KGB affair through
One World Films, a small U.S. maker of TV documentaries that
already has won access to some KGB information for a program
on the life of Stalin. The Stalin program was made in
conjunction with Contact Film.
   Another possible project for the Davis group, it says, is
research into a mysterious meeting Lee Harvey Oswald
reportedly had with KGB officials prior to the Kennedy
assassination.