Treasury Rules Out U.S. Guarantees
   On Bonds From SL Cleanup Agency
   ----
   By Paulette Thomas
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Albert R. Casey, the chief executive of the agency, made
the case to the Treasury, which sets policy for the thrift
cleanup. But the idea was rejected. "The proposal to provide
a government guarantee was shelved," the Treasury official
said, over concern about extending the government's
liability.
   Last week, the RTC issued $528 million in securities
backed by commercial realestate mortgages. The securities
didn't come with a government guarantee, but investors were
offered a measure of protection by a $130 million reserve
fund set up to cover losses from mortgages that fail to pay.
   A spokesman for the Resolution Trust Corp. said Mr. Casey
may make the case for the guarantee again in the future. "He
feels that our presentation to the Treasury can be refined
and made more compelling," the spokesman said. "This may have
some life left in it."
   The government already implicitly backs the debt of huge
"government sponsored enterprises," such as the Federal
National Mortgage Association and the Federal Home Loan
Mortgage Corp., which provide liquidity to the housing
market.
   The Treasury was reluctant to extend that status to the
RTC, whose mission is to liquidate holdings from SLs that
the government seized. "The notion isn't something that has
got a lot of support," the official said. Officials
overseeing the thrift cleanup "talked about it thoroughly,
and we were concerned about the expansion of government
guarantees."
   Some analysts say investors believe that the securities
already carry an implicit government guarantee; if there is a
default, they expect the government will make good on them.
"Even if the government made it an explict guarantee, it
won't increase the exposure much, and it might improve
prices," says Herman Leonard, a Harvard professor at the John
F. Kennedy School for Government. "Right now, they've got the
worst of both worlds."
   Any investor who assumes the government will make good a
defaulted RTC bond is mistaken, the Treasury official said.
"That is an assumption they have no foundation for," the
official said. "It's very explicitly laid out that there
isn't a government guarantee."
   The agency has sold about $229 billion in assets from
failed SLs, and is expected eventually to sell a total of
$400 billion or more. Most of the assets sold so far are
current loans and mortgages, and other easily marketable
instruments.