Judge Blocks
   Tylenol PM Sale
   Over Packaging
   ----
   By Lourdes Lee Valeriano
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
In its request for a stay, Johnson  Johnson argued that
the injunction "essentially shuts down a $60 million a year
business." Johnson  Johnson of New Brunswick, N.J., said it
is going to appeal the order. Bristol-Myers declined to
disclose Excedrin PM sales.
   This isn't the first time that the two pharmaceutical
giants are butting heads over Tylenol and Excedrin. In
December 1990, a Manhattan federal judge ordered
Bristol-Myers to stop an aggressive, $10 million ad campaign
for Aspirin-Free Excedrin; Johnson  Johnson said the
campaign falsely claimed that the product was a better pain
reliever than Extra-Strength Tylenol.
   The injunction against Tylenol PM resulted from a suit
filed by New York-based Bristol-Myers last May, alleging that
Johnson  Johnson's McNeil division sought to reap the
benefits of consumers' familiarity with the Excedrin PM
packaging. McNeil makes and sells the Tylenol products.
   Both products combine an analgesic with a sleep aid.
Excedrin PM has been on the market for about 20 years, while
McNeil introduced Tylenol PM about a year ago. Both are sold
in tablet and caplet forms.
   Ronald Nordmann, an analyst with PaineWebber, says the
dispute "is not a make-or-break issue for either
Bristol-Myers or Johnson  Johnson," noting that each
company's annual sales exceed $10 billion.
   Sharon Wagoner, an analyst with Argus Research, says an
injunction wouldn't have a major impact on Johnson  Johnson
because Tylenol PM is a new addition to the Tylenol line. She
adds that McNeil can still get the message across that the
product contains a sleep aid even if it has to change the
packaging.
   In his opinion, Judge Spatt said that "an analysis of the
logotype, graphic devices and color configuration of Excedrin
PM and Tylenol PM packages leads to the inescapable
conclusion that the defendant intentionally copied
Bristol-Myers' analgesic-with-sleep-aid trade dress."
   Johnson  Johnson requested either a stay of the
injunction pending appeal or an injunction that would permit
McNeil to sell its inventory and make a transition to another
package design. "Once a packaging change has been made, it is
extraordinarily unlikely that McNeil would change its package
design again, whatever the outcome of the appeal from the
preliminary injunction or the final trial," the company said.