It Sings Like a Band,
   Gyrates Like a Band,
   But Is It a Band?
   ---
   A Made-Up Group Called
   Spinal Tap Tries to Break
   Free From Fiction's Bonds
   ----
   By Richard Turner
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
David St. Hubbins, Nigel Tufnel and Derek Smalls bound
onto stage and pick up their guitars. Mr. Tufnel wags his
tongue lasciviously. Mr. Small's hairy torso is wrapped in
leather straps and metal rings above skintight leopard pants;
he grimaces moronically and punches a fist into the air. Mr.
St. Hubbins has hair that can only be described as oversized.
   Spinal Tap launches into its ear-ravaging repertoire --
including the new single, "Bitch School" -- and 600 music
industry insiders respond with raised fists and lighted
matches held aloft in rock-worship tribute. People note that
the band members are actually playing the instruments and
singing. No Milli Vanilli here.
   That's important, because although Spinal Tap has played a
handful of concerts before, the group is best known as a
figment of some satirists' imaginations -- and, ironically,
for poking fun at exactly the crowd cheering them now. In
1983, three actors joined with film director Rob Reiner to
make "This is Spinal Tap," a mock documentary about the U.S.
concert tour of an endearingly dim English rock band. The
movie was critically celebrated, and its sound track sold
nearly 200,000 records in America.
   The three members of Spinal Tap had other careers -- as
actors, journalists and comedians -- and they moved on. Yet
something kept gnawing at them: They wanted to prove that the
music they wrote and performed wasn't a joke. So Spinal Tap
is taking its satire to a new level, with a record deal and a
20-city concert tour to promote their new album, "Break Like
the Wind." This time, they say, it's for real.
   In the film, the concert tour falls apart: When an
upcoming gig in Boston is canceled, the group's manager
reassures them, "I wouldn't worry -- it's not a big college
town." The real Spinal Tap's tour, which is scheduled to
begin in May, culminates with an appearance at London's Royal
Albert Hall in July.
   Briefly, the fictive story that has evolved about Spinal
Tap is this: David St. Hubbins and Nigel Tufnel grew up in
the Squatney District of London, where they formed a band
called The Lovely Lads. Derek Smalls, a member of England's
all-white Jamaican show band, Skaface, joined later.
   They changed their name to The Originals, until they
learned another local band had the same name, so they became
The New Originals. They had an early hit in England, "Gimme
Some Money," which they performed at a music festival on the
Isle of Lucy. More ambitious was a plan for a rock musical
about Jack the Ripper, "Saucy Jack."
   The boys first gained attention in America in Greenwich
Village in the 1960s, where they played a club called the
Electric Banana: "Don't look for it," narrator Reiner sternly
lectures in the film. "It's not there anymore." And they had
a hit, "Listen to the Flower People."
   The group's songs -- head-banging, guitar-crashing heavy
metal in the tradition of Judas Priest or Ozzy Osbourne --
either traffic in sexual innuendo or are plain silly. "And
that's the majesty of rock]/ The Mystery of Roll]/ The
darning of the sock,/ The scoring of the goal]/ The farmer
takes a wife/ The barber takes a pole,/ We're in this
together . . . and ever . . ."
   "There's such a fine line," Mr. Tufnel muses in the movie,
"between clever and stupid."
   Mr. Tufnel is played by actor/director Christopher Guest,
44 years old, who was a principal in the National Lampoon's
stage show, "Lemmings," and recently directed a movie, "The
Big Picture." The man with the oversized hair, actor Michael
McKean, 44, used to be "Lenny" on the TV show "Laverne and
Shirley." The leather-strapped one, Harry Shearer, 48,
replaced Dan Ackroyd on "Saturday Night Live," years after he
was a child actor on the "Jack Benny Radio Hour."
   These hoary credentials help make Spinal Tap a joke that
plays well in the media and music industry. But can the band
fill 5,000-seat auditoriums? Many of the movie's fans, now
fortysomething, rarely go to concerts, much less heavymetal
ones. If they come for comedy, they'll probably be
disappointed. Although the group gets off a few jokes between
songs, the concert is music, the lyrics mostly inaudible.
Attracting at least a portion of the young "metal-head"
market will be crucial.
   The band members say they first had the idea for the tour
about three years ago, after they had rebuffed several offers
for a film sequel. Another movie seemed redundant, and they
wanted to prove that only their characters, not their musical
proficiency, were make-believe. Mr. McKean and Mr. Guest
wrote songs together as students at New York University. Mr.
Shearer routinely writes and performs songs as part of his
nationally syndicated radio program, "Le Show." The band used
four well-known music producers for the new album, which
contains songs performed with, among others, Cher.
   There is also the comic challenge "of fictionalizing
something on a very deep level, not just doing parody using
someone else's music," says Mr. Guest, agreeing to shed his
rock persona. "This is much more intriguing and ambitious for
us because we get to create actual new melodies-and stupid
ideas."
   And if they flop? "This isn't our entire life," adds Mr.
Guest, who is married to the actress Jamie Lee Curtis. "When
groups go out, they fall off the ends of the earth in some
respects if it doesn't work out. They don't go back to
M.I.T."
   Some record executives aren't convinced that Spinal Tap
can be resurrected. "They're a one-off," says a record
company executive -- by which he means the group might
produce only one record. In the music business, companies try
to tie up a young group for the long term.
   But Matsushita Electric Industrial Co.'s MCA Inc. took the
bait. Al Teller, the company's music group chairman, clears
his throat and intones, "They have left an indelible mark on
the music industry. I am honored to be associated with them."
   Urged to respond as himself, Mr. Teller concedes that the
tour and recording deal -- which will cost more than $500,000
-- is a risk, but he argues the band already has a hard-core
audience, and a newer one ready to be tapped. "We can't know
until we get out there and try," he says. "But they're
certainly going to be a very visible thing."
   Indeed. They're spending up to six hours a day in
character -- and sweaty wigs -- doing Spinal Tap interviews
and personal appearances. And, perhaps because so many music
journalists are bone-weary of interviewing the real article,
the reporters usually go along with the gag, joining in the
role-playing.
   So far, preview audiences seem to be equally game.
"They're kind of falling down the rabbit hole with us," says
Mr. McKean. "They feel like they're acting in the sequel,"
adds Mr. Guest.
   However, when all is said and done, Mr. St. Hubbins told
Rolling Stone magazine recently, "The concept for the new
album is sales. What we're saying with this album is, `We're
back. Come back with us. Join us, won't you, in a consumer
sense.'"