Industry Focus:
   Cruise Lines Enjoy Smooth Sailing Despite Recession
   ---
   After a Year of Scrimping and Saving,
   Vacationers Are Booking in Droves
   ----
   By Laurie M. Grossman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
January wasn't just an aberration. It follows a year that
was surprisingly strong for a business whose underpinnings
are travel and luxury. Carnival, the industry leader, posted
an 8% increase in earnings from continuing operations, the
bulk of which is cruise business. Overall, the number of
cruise line passengers rose 10% in 1991 from 1990.
   "Bookings have been incredibly strong," says Michael
Mueller, an analyst with Montgomery Securities. "Because it's
priced so attractively to other vacation options, it's got a
lot of growth ahead."
   The industry's showing was especially strong in a year in
which domestic airline traffic fell 2.6%, hotel occupancy
slipped 1.5% and leisure travel by seasoned travelers was off
13%, according to various studies.
   In large part, the industry's success was the result of
heavy price-cutting. Carnival, for instance, is slashing $300
off each ticket between now and May. At Norwegian, two can
travel for the price of one on several three-day and four-day
cruises to the Caribbean and Mexico. Its lowest discount
ticket for a seven-day cruise, excluding airfare, is $687,
40% less than the advertised rate in Norwegian's brochure.
The average discount on a cruise has been running about 30%,
estimates Jay Lewis, president of Market Scope Inc., a
consulting firm. All of the cruise lines are doling out
upgrades to entice more bookings. And they aren't shy about
still larger discounts on a particular cruise as departure
time nears.
   But prices aren't the whole story. Discounting has been
the norm in this industry for several years. In fact, the
discounts are more limited this year than last, industry
experts say.
   They attribute the surge in business largely to a
combination of clever marketing and great timing. To broaden
its audience, the cruise industry has slowly and quietly been
widening its target market. The average age of the cruise
passenger has dropped from 58 to 44 in the past five years.
At the same time, the average household income of cruise
takers has fallen from $55,000 to $60,000 10 years ago, to
$35,000 to $40,000 now, says Donald Tatzin, a travel industry
consultant and director at Arthur D. Little Inc. The
household income at which people start buying cruises is now
as low as $25,000.
   "The secret to the success of the cruise industry is that
the passenger demographics went from elitist to match the
demographics of the public in general," says Bob Dickinson,
chairman of the Cruise Lines International Association and
senior vice president of Carnival. "The cruise industry today
isn't caviar every night for the jet set. We redesigned the
product."
   Yet, at the same time, cruise companies have managed
enough panache so that passengers still consider them a
luxury. They pamper their customers with first-name service.
They serve plenty of fancy food and exotic drink at all hours
of the day and night. They have all sorts of on-board
entertainment from gambling to shopping to cabarets. All this
for a single package price that cruise executives claim costs
a lot less than a regular vacation. "We were treated like
kings and queens," says Beth Romano, a Bensenville, Ill.,
convenience-store owner, who took a Caribbean cruise for her
honeymoon last month.
   For the cruise lines, this image is corresponding nicely
with pent-up demand. After a year of scrimping and postponing
vacations, many people are eager to get on the go, travel
agents and other industry experts say. Mrs. Romano and her
husband, Mark, had planned to spend most of their honeymoon
at home. But after a year with no vacation except for weekend
drives to Wisconsin, they couldn't stand it any longer. Six
days before their wedding, they sprung for a Royal Caribbean
cruise to St. Thomas and other Caribbean islands at a
half-price cost of $800 each. "We needed a vacation," Mrs.
Romano said.
   Mr. Tatzin, the travel industry consultant, knows several
families like the Romanos who cut last year's vacations out
of their budgets, but are splurging on cruises this spring.
One couple in their 40s who had never cruised before bought
three cruises because "they're good buys," Mr. Tatzin says.
The Cruise Line Inc., a Miami travel agency, is getting 3,000
calls a day this year, twice as many before. Demand grew so
much that the agency hired five more agents (for a total of
18), stayed open two hours later on weeknights, and opened on
Sundays.
   Just how long this surge will last is open to question,
however. Bjornar Hermansen, president of Premier Cruise
Lines, worries that the industry's strength last year was due
more to "forced demand by discounting rather than the natural
inclination to travel more."
   Even as revenues in the $6 billion cruise industry rose 9%
in 1991, the steep discounting led to red ink for some. While
the price-cutting mostly helped the big cruise lines that
dominate the industry, according to industry analysts and
executives, it hurt many of the smaller, more upscale lines.
   Cruise lines must continue their growth to fill
ever-expanding capacity. The industry will add 12% to its
capacity this year and plans more increases in the next few
years. So it is continuing to try to reach new audiences. To
attract sports fans, Norwegian Cruise Line is advertising at
Detroit Pistons basketball games, and later this year, will
have some of the Piston players sail with fans on a cruise.
Last summer, the line ran discount ads on Pepsi cans, and on
a scoreboard at New York Yankees baseball games. With
marketing efforts like these, as well as TV and newspaper
ads, the line has seen a 50% increase in passengers bringing
children over the last five years. And as Norwegian funnels
more marketing effort into the United Kingdom and South
America, the number of international passengers is increasing
at 50% a year.
   Other lines are also expanding their reach. Royal
Caribbean is putting teenagers into more of its brochure
photos and equipping three ships with teen-only discos.
Premier has doubled the number of single-parent passengers it
carries by charging lower rates if they want their own room,
and sending babysitters to cabins for children under two.
Premier is also trying to attract family reunions with
discounts, upgrades and even family photos.
   "We're focusing on a market that's been largely
neglected," says Mr. Hermansen of Premier.