Shades of Capone:
   Williamsburg Vault
   May Yield Treasure
   ---
   But as Geraldo Rivera Found
   In Chicago, It May Not;
   Sir Francis Bacon's Papers
   ----
   By Laurie McGinley
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The New Age and the age-old are colliding in this historic
place, to the consternation of townsfolk. The New Agers
expect to disinter not just the Bacon papers but other
priceless items, including the missing crown jewels of Queen
Elizabeth I, the original manuscript of the King James Bible,
lost writings by the Apostle Peter and early versions of the
Declaration of Independence and the Constitution, written by
Bacon.
   Twice in recent months, three New Agers have crept into
the churchyard in the night to try to dig up the vault but
have succeeded only in angering locals and generating arrest
warrants. (The intruders fled before they could be nabbed.)
   "They're kooks," says Williamsburg Mayor John Hodges.
"It's crazy stuff," agrees I. Noel-Hume, the retired chief
archaelogist of Colonial Williamsburg. "I don't believe a
word of it."
   But those who do believe see a worldwide conspiracy to
cover up the truth. Bacon's secret documents would prove he
wrote Shakespeare, too, and would provide his prescriptions
for world peace.
   Lead digger Marsha Middleton says, "The documents will
create a wave of love consciousness for America and the
world."
   Ms. Middleton has written reincarnated actress Shirley
MacLaine for help but hasn't heard back -- from any of her
selves. The New Agers, with Mr. Richman doing public
relations, are hoping to do a proper dig in the spring.
   Colonial Williamsburg is much too staid for a new dawn.
The elegantly restored, 18th-century town was rescued from
dilapidation by John D. Rockefeller Jr., who, beginning in
the 1920s, provided millions of dollars for the restoration
at the behest of W.A.R. Goodwin, who was rector of Bruton
Parish Church.
   The church, built in 1715, is one of the oldest in the
U.S.; its congregation has included George Washington, Thomas
Jefferson, Patrick Henry and James Monroe. Both church and
community are bastions of conservatism. And, people here say,
who needs weird outsiders when the place is teeming with
tourists as it is?
   "We don't want the Al Capone vault in Chicago," shudders
Bruton Parish rector Richard May, a former Wall Street vicar
(Trinity Church) and television newsman (with WOWT in Omaha,
Neb.). Readers will recall that that other newsman, Geraldo
Rivera, opened the gangster's vault on live TV a few years
back, and there was nothing in it but bottles and dirt.
   The current ferment in Williamsburg can be traced to Marie
Bauer Hall, now 87, a Los Angeles resident who more than 50
years ago concluded after studying cryptograms in a
supposedly prophetic 1635 book that a Bacon vault was going
to be buried at the church site. In 1938, after obtaining
permission to dig in the churchyard, Mrs. Hall and a crew of
diggers located the foundations of the long-gone original
brick church, which was built in 1683. She concentrated her
search for the vault there.
   Marshall Allen, a retired aerospace engineer who was a
senior at Williamsburg's College of William and Mary in 1938,
watched the diggers from a distance. He was behind ropes, he
says, with dozens of other onlookers. "They hit what appeared
to be a box or a coffin," recalls Mr. Allen, who lives near
Fort Loudon, Pa. Diggers told him the object was
four-and-a-half feet wide, was covered with leather and had
large tacks on it. But Mr. Allen says orders came from church
officials to end the dig, and the hole was summarily filled
in. Mrs. Hall says the cover-up has continued all these
years.
   In the late 1980s, Mrs. Hall's Veritat Foundation hired
archaeologists to run electronic tests at the site. The tests
found an "anomaly" about 10 feet below the surface -- just
where the New Agers say the vault is located. But Marley
Brown, director of archaeological research for Colonial
Williamsburg, the nonprofit foundation that oversees many of
the town's historic sites, believes the anomaly is a log, or
an old coffin, or fill from Mrs. Hall's 1938 dig.
   The latest interest came about after Ms. Middleton, who is
a member of a small Santa Fe, N.M., group called the Ministry
of the Children, read about Mrs. Hall's work. The group is
interested in alternative communities, holistic medicine, Sir
Francis Bacon and such. Ms. Middleton decided to come to
Williamsburg after a Hopi Indian woman last August appeared
in a dream to her seven-year-old son, Christian, and said:
"It's time to bring up the vault."
   So one night a month later, Ms. Middleton, along with her
husband, Frank Flint, and a friend, went over the wall and
dug a hole. The Bruton Parish Church then got its court order
barring the diggers from its grounds.
   For a while, the church flirted with the idea of
authorizing an archaeological dig just to end the unwanted
interest. But on Nov. 18, the vestry voted unanimously not to
dig, partly for fear the New Agers won't be satisfied till
the whole churchyard is plowed up.
   Church member Robert Fehrenbach, an English professor at
William and Mary, puts it this way: "What if someone said to
you, `I have reason to believe that the equivalent of the
Hope Diamond and Genghis Khan's saddle is in your garage. If
I can't find it there, I'll go through your sock drawer. If I
can't find it there, I'll go through your attic, your
basement and finally your bra.'"
   The day before Thanksgiving, Ms. Middleton and her group
came back and did some more digging, until they were
discovered by Colonial Williamsburg security guards. The
diggers fled Williamsburg in December after warrants were
issued for their arrest. Now they are visiting friends in New
Age mecca, Sedona, Ariz., and planning a return visit.
   Other New Agers, particularly the reincarnated Mr. Richman
in Williamsburg, also are organizing a letter-writing
campaign to try to persuade the vestry to relent and let
professionals do a little spadework. Even some non-New Agers
are curious now about what might be found. And while all the
talk of excavation horrifies church officials, it is
beginning to interest tourists. Williamsburg's paid
attendance slipped by 116,794 in 1991, to 940,195, thanks
they say to the recession. Buried treasure may be just what
Williamsburg needs.
   "The second time they dug a hole, they should have charged
admission," chuckles Robert Armistead, a retired circuit
court judge who was baptized at Bruton Parish Church. "It's
the talk of the town."