Some Commodities Ride High With Stocks
   ---
   Price Rallies Show
   Hope of Recovery
   ----
   By Jeffrey Taylor
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
At various times lately, commodities and industrial metals
and lumber have moved in virtual lock-step with stock prices.
"There's a strong correlation" between the stock market's
performance and some of the recent rallies in commodity
prices, says James Riley, partner in charge of metals trading
at J. Aron, the commodities division of Goldman, Sachs  Co.
   Many investors who stick to the stock market seem to be
making similar bets. There was a mass migration last month
from growth stocks to shares of businesses tied to the
economic cycle, such as aluminum production. These investors,
too, suspect industrial commodity prices may have finally
bottomed out after two years of declines.
   This reasoning has helped trigger rallies in lumber at the
Chicago Mercantile Exchange and in various metals, including
aluminum, copper, zinc and nickel. Some of the sharpest
run-ups have been in obscure industrial metals such as
rhodium, used in the automotive industry to make catalytic
converters. Rhodium, which isn't traded on any futures
exchange, climbed from about $1,400 a troy ounce in December
to a recent high of $2,700.
   A large part of the pressure on these commodities is
psychological. "It's a Pavlovian response, a learned
response," says William Byers, a managing director in Bear,
Stearns  Co.'s futures division. "If you believe the stock
market is an indicator of impending recovery -- and many
people do -- then it follows logically that demand for
certain industrial commodities should pick up soon."
   Take silver. The price of the metal has risen more or less
in tandem with the stock market over the last two months,
from a low of $3.85 a troy ounce in mid-December to a recent
high of about $4.40 an ounce.
   "This movement should gradually continue," Mr. Riley says.
"It's not going to go straight up, but you have now placed
bottoms in these markets, and I don't think we'll see these
bottoms again."
   As a result, options contracts on silver -- which entitle
holders to buy or sell the metal in the future at a specified
price -- have been trading briskly in over-the-counter
options markets and on the Commodity Exchange of New York.
Many speculators have been buying $4.50 "call" options on
silver for March and May delivery, which gain value as the
price of silver inches closer to the $4.50-an-ounce level.
   Traders smell profits in this gambit because the stock
market's December-January rally raised expectations of an
economic recovery. As industrial activity increases during a
rebound, greater demand for raw materials such as silver,
used to make photographic film and X-rays, would push up
prices.
   To sustain the commodity rally, however, the psychological
stimulus of surging stocks needs support from other
indicators, and at some point demand for commodities must
actually begin to increase. Even if the stock market's
strength foreshadows a recovery, the process can take a long
time. Commodity prices are likely to move up gradually, in
fits and starts, analysts say, rather than steadily.
   For that reason, many traders remain wary of commodity
prices that snapped out of prolonged drops because of
strength in stocks. For example, after a two-year slide, the
price of aluminum has climbed to a recent high of $1,308 a
metric ton from a mid-December low of about $1,095.
   "A lot of the rally is not consumer-driven but, rather,
based on technical participation by managed commodity funds,
money-management firms and some general short covering,"
contends Donald Swift, a base metals trader for Shearson
Lehman Brothers in New York. "The fundamentals haven't
improved enough to justify the price appreciation."
   John J. Murphy, a market consultant and author of a book
called "Intermarket Technical Analysis," argues that recent
rallies in base metals and other industrial commodities are
early warnings of a new market cycle, one that may eventually
produce a sustained surge in commodities prices -- even
agricultural commodities such as soybeans and cattle.
   "When stocks turn up, that does tends to pre-date an
upward move in commodities prices," Mr. Murphy says. "I'm not
saying soon; it may happen a year from now. But you see this
first in industrial commodities, which have begun the very
early stages of bottoming activity."
   Another factor likely to add to long-term upward momentum,
traders say, is growing restraint among former Soviet
republics, which helped push prices down last year by dumping
commodities on the global market. The collapsing economies of
many of these countries, including Russia, spurred them to
frantically sell their most valuable goods -- including
platinum, gold, nickel, and other metals.
   "Nothing affected commodities last year as badly as the
Russian situation," says J. Aron's Mr. Riley. "But the worst
is over now."
   One commodity that should benefit both from diminishing
Russian selling and recovery in the U.S. economy is
inflation-sensitive gold. But because gold has virtually no
industrial use, it hasn't caught much of a lift from rallying
stocks as have many less-glamorous metals. Indeed, many who
leaped into gold when the stock market began its December
surge now regret it.
   "Everybody keeps licking their chops and waiting for gold
to go up," says Ian Work, who runs a commodity
money-management firm called Glorieta Trading Co. in Santa
Fe, N.M. "But it doesn't happen and they get killed. The
possibility for inflationary activity exists, but it seems
that it won't happen until the economy actually recovers."