PERSONAL TECHNOLOGY
   ----
   By Walter S. Mossberg
ANOTHER computer virus alarm is being sounded, and as
always it's tough for computer users to know how seriously to
react. Nobody wants to suffer the ill effects of a virus, but
past warnings about particular strains of such viruses have
often proved overblown, with relatively few cases of real
damage.
   In general, I hesitate to echo dire warnings of viruses,
partly because they often come from the makers of
virus-detection software. But the latest scare, about a virus
named Michelangelo, warrants more attention than most.
   Michelangelo is a particularly destructive virus designed
to wipe out the entire contents of your hard disk drive on
March 6, a week from tomorrow, if you have an IBM-compatible
personal computer that's been infected. Even if it strikes
only a tiny percentage of computers, it could do great
damage. Moreover, Michelangelo has already shown up on a few
commercially sold floppy and hard disks. And it spreads in a
sneaky way that could trap even normally careful users.
   So, this week, I'll tell how to stymie Michelangelo. Next
week, I'll discuss virus prevention in general, which can be
confusing.
   A computer virus is a small program created by a malicious
programmer for the sole purpose of spreading itself from
computer to computer and then carrying out functions without
the owners' permission. Some viruses merely propagate, taking
up disk space or slowing processing. Others display unwanted
messages on your screen. A few, like Michelangelo, are truly
pernicious, destroying or damaging programs and files.
                                                                                                       

   Michelangelo's name derives from its March 6 trigger date,
also the birthday of the great artist. The virus resides
invisibly on an infected computer until that date comes up on
the computer's internal clock, in any year. Then, whenever
the computer is started or restarted on March 6, it
detonates, overwriting all of your hard disk files.
   Viruses typically spread by the transfer of programs
carrying an undetected infection. Such transfers usually
occur through computer networks or bulletin boards, so people
who don't trade programs this way often feel safe.
   But the Michelangelo strain moves differently. It hides on
floppy disks and spreads to a new computer whenever someone
tries to start ("boot") the computer from an infected floppy.
The virus will spread even if the attempt to start the
computer from the floppy fails. Once your computer is
infected, the Michelangelo virus will infect every other
floppy you put into it.
   There's one consolation: The virus won't spread if you
merely copy files from a floppy to your hard disk, only if
you try to start your computer from the floppy, a much less
common procedure.
   Here are steps you can take to protect yourself against
the Michelangelo virus:
   -- Back up the entire contents of your hard disk, using
any backup program. This creates a copy of all your files on
a tape or a set of floppy disks. If the virus wipes you out,
you can later rebuild your hard disk's contents from this
archive.
   -- Obtain and use an anti-virus program to see whether
Michelangelo is hiding on your hard disk, and eradicate it if
you find it. Also use this software to check any floppy disks
you intend to use to start your computer.
                                                                                                       

   Make sure the version of the anti-virus software you're
using is new enough to cover the Michelangelo virus, which
first came to software makers' attention late last summer. If
your version is too old, or if you don't have antivirus
software, try to get one of the low-cost promotional
programs, offered by several software companies, that go
after the Michelangelo virus. Details on these are below.
   -- As a last resort, you can trick the virus by setting
your computer's internal clock to March 7, 1992, by no later
than March 5. Or, you can leave your computer on from March 5
until March 7, without restarting it. These methods will
prevent the virus from detonating, but they carry risks. A
wrong date may make your computer inaccurate, and if you
don't change the clock, an accidental restart on March 6
could wipe you out. If your machine is infected, the virus
will still strike every March 6 in the future, and your
computer will still spread the virus to every floppy you use.
   Symantec, Santa Monica, Calif., which makes the Norton
AntiVirus program for PCs, is offering a special
Michelangelo-only version for $9. Or, with a modem, you can
download the special program free of charge (except for the
phone call) from the company's bulletin board.
   Microcom, Norwood, Mass., which makes the Virex program,
offers a similar Michelangelo-only program free of charge on
its bulletin board. Central Point Software, Beaverton, Ore.,
offers a similar special version of its Central Point
Anti-Virus Software for $29.
   There's also a noncommercial anti-virus package, called
Viruscan, by McAfee Associates, Santa Clara, Calif., which
has long been available on many bulletin boards. The latest
versions can tackle Michelangelo.