Your Money Matters -- Taxes 1992:
   If You're Confused by the Tax Forms,
   Here's Where to Find Professional Help
   ----
   By Georgette Jasen
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
There are many reasons to get help doing your tax return.
   Tax professionals say that people who sold a house, got
divorced or had partnership income last year probably need
assistance. Tax payers who are affected by the new limits on
deductions or phase-out of personal exemptions above certain
income levels may feel better having someone else do the
calculations.
   Others may simply choose not to spend the three hours and
27 minutes that the government estimates it takes the average
taxpayer to prepare a Form 1040, plus two more hours on forms
listing itemized deductions and capital gains and losses.
   Nearly half of all returns filed with the Internal Revenue
Service are done by paid preparers, even though only 26% of
all taxpayers itemize deductions. "Most people are just not
too comfortable with their returns," says Sam Starr, a tax
partner in the Washington, D.C., office of accountants
Coopers  Lybrand.
   Taxpayers who want help have lots of choices.
   There are commercial preparers, such as HR Block;
"enrolled agents," who have worked for the IRS or passed an
IRS-administered exam, and certified public accountants, or
CPAs, who are state-licensed. Some financial planners have
additional training in tax preparation and advice. There are
also bookkeepers, and others, who do tax returns in their
spare time, and entrepreneurs who set up business just for
tax season. Even the IRS gives advice, either in person at
IRS offices around the country or on the phone.
   Advice from the IRS is free. Groups such as the American
Association of Retired Persons sponsor volunteer programs to
provide assistance at no cost. Others may charge as little as
$25 or as much as several thousand.
   How to choose?
   Look for someone who's in business all year round, who
will be there if there are questions, or an audit, after
April 15. While some preparers have a great deal of training
and one or more professional designations, anyone can hang
out a shingle as a tax preparer.
   Avoid the preparer with just a green eyeshade and sharp
pencil. "I wouldn't go to anybody who doesn't have a computer
to at least check the numbers," says Douglas Stives, a
partner in Curchin  Co., a Red Bank, N.J., accounting firm
   Beyond those basics, professionals say taxpayers should
consider the complexity of their particular tax situations.
Someone whose income is mainly from salary and wages, with
some interest and dividend income and a few itemized
deductions, will probably be satisfied with a commercial
preparer. A small-business owner with lots of deductions,
depreciation of equipment, partnership income and maybe some
rental properties needs a sophisticated professional.
   Taxpayers with complicated returns "ought to sound out the
preparer to see how aggressive he is, and how knowledgeable,"
says William L. Raby, a senior lecturer in taxes at Arizona
State University in Tempe. "Get someone whose philosophy fits
yours." Some preparers may take positions that could lead to
controversy with the IRS, others prepare what professionals
call "bullet-proof" returns.
   Finally, keep in mind that "some of it is personality,"
says Nancy Nesbitt, an enrolled agent in San Diego. "You
don't hit it off with everyone you meet."
   Here's a look at some of the options:
   Commercial Preparers. Commercial preparers may work for
big firms, such as HR Block and Jackson-Hewitt Tax Services,
smaller firms, or independently. HR Block, perhaps the best
known of the commercial tax preparation firms, employs about
60,000 people during tax season in nearly 9,000 offices
around the country. They prepared about 13% of the individual
returns filed with the IRS last year. The average fee:
$51.85.
   Most returns are prepared in store-front offices, although
HR Block also offers an "executive tax service" for those
who want more privacy and are willing to pay more. The
average executive tax service client paid $105.96.
   The big firms generally require preparers to pass a test
and encourage them to complete their own training courses.
Independent preparers may have little or no training or a
degree in accounting; there is generally no regulation.
   Commercial preparers can accompany a taxpayer to an audit
to explain how calculations were made, but they generally
can't represent the taxpayer.
   Although the large commercial preparers insist that they
have staff that can handle almost any return, officials
acknowledge that the typical client is someone with income of
about $40,000. Nearly half of HR Block's clients file the
shorter 1040A return, or the super-simple 1040EZ.
   Enrolled Agents. These tax specialists generally charge
less than CPAs but more than commercial preparers. They may
work with CPAs or lawyers, commercial tax-preparation firms,
or on their own. Fees typically range from $100 to $300,
depending on the complexity of the return and the part of the
country.
   One way to become an enrolled agent is to have worked for
the IRS for at least five years. Others must pass a stiff
two-day exam on taxes administered by the IRS (only about 30%
are successful) and submit to an IRS background check. There
are also continuing education requirements. Like CPAs and
attorneys, enrolled agents can represent taxpayers before the
IRS in an audit or other proceeding.
   Some enrolled agents may concentrate on small-business
returns or partnerships, for example. "Ask about who most of
their clients are," suggests Lillian Lea, an enrolled agent
in Berkeley, Calif. "You want to know what kinds of returns
they do."
   CPAs. These state-licensed professionals typically handle
the most complicated returns. They may provide more than just
tax assistance, too. A CPA, for instance, may help a
small-business owner prepare financial statements or
coordinate with an individual's investment adviser or
insurance agent.
   This service comes at a cost. CPAs generally charge an
hourly rate, which in some major cities can be between $100
and $200. It isn't hard to run up a tab of $500 or more. "I
try to cull out the people who expect to pay $75. I can't
possibly help them," says Mr. Stives, the Red Bank, N.J.,
CPA.
   Clients typically are self-employed professionals, such as
doctors, lawyers and dentists, and corporate executives and
individuals with complex investments. "It's a question of how
complex is the return," says Victor Barton, a CPA with Bond,
Beebe, Barton  Muckelbauer in Washington, D.C. "The simpler
it is, the more you would go to a non-CPA preparer."
   It's important to remember that while all CPAs have some
tax training, not all of them are experts on individual
returns. Some CPAs at big firms, for instance, specialize in
corporate audits and may do just a few tax returns in the
spring.
   The newest groups of tax preparers are Accredited Tax
Preparers and Accredited Tax Advisers, two designations
created by the College for Financial Planning in Denver. The
college, which created the Certified Financial Planner
designation in 1972, offers home-study courses followed by a
national examination.
   Regardless of who prepares the actual return, there are a
couple of things to remember: Keep good records and review
the completed return carefully. Someone who comes in to a tax
preparer with a shoebox full of slips of paper can run up an
enormous bill just for sorting through the documents. And
even though a paid preparer's signature is on the return, the
taxpayer is ultimately responsible for its accuracy.
   ---

                                                                                                       

   What to find out before turing your return over to a paid
preparer
                                                                                                       

   -- Is doing tax returns a regular part of the preparer's
business?
                                                                                                       

   -- What kind of training does the preparer have?
                                                                                                       

   -- Is the preparer available to answer tax questions
throughout the year?
                                                                                                       

   -- Is the preparer experienced with tax situations like
yours?
                                                                                                       

   -- Is the preparer conservative or aggressive in
interpreting tax laws and regulations?
                                                                                                       

   -- How much help would the preparer provide if you were
audited?
                                                                                                       

   -- How much will preparing your return cost?