Federated Stores Ends Chapter 11 Era
   Poised to Hurt Ailing Rival R.H. Macy
   ----
   By Jeffrey A. Trachtenberg
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The emergence of Federated comes nine days after arch
rival R.H. Macy  Co. filed for bankruptcy-law protection in
Manhattan. Many analysts say the leaner, reorganized
Federated is poised to take market share away from Macy,
which in coming months may find itself hobbled by cash
management issues and the bankruptcy reporting process.
   The new Federated, which includes the old Federated and
Allied Stores, began trading yesterday on the New York Stock
Exchange on a when-issued basis, under the symbol FD. By
day's end, 6.7 million shares had traded hands. In late Big
Board trading, it was quoted at $17.25 a share. Earlier this
week, the shares were trading in the so-called third market
at $12 each.
   "The market has given Federated a very warm welcome back,"
said Andrew Herenstein, an analyst at Delaware Bay Co., which
specializes in distressed securities. "This is one of the
major retail properties in the country, and it's got a lot of
operating leverage."
   Mr. Herenstein estimated that Federated generated $525
million in operating cash flow in the year that ended Monday,
or 7.5% of sales. The analyst said Federated has done better
in the past and suggested the retailer may raise the figure
as high as 10% in future years.
   About 80.5 million Federated shares will be issued in a
six-week period starting the week of Feb. 17. An estimated 24
million of those shares are being issued on an unrestricted
basis, with the remainder restricted for as long as three
years. Restricted shares can't be traded on the Big Board.
   In addition to the stock, Federated is issuing six
high-interest notes valued at $1.61 billion to various bank
creditors and prepetition bondholders. Two specific issues,
the Series B and D notes, were listed yesterday on the New
York Stock Exchange. Federated issued $554.7 million of the
10% Series B notes and $305.7 million of the Series D notes,
which pay 9% annually through Feb. 15, 1995, and then 3.5
percentage points above the rate for two-year Treasury notes.
   Federated, which generated about $7 billion in revenue in
the year ended Saturday, emerged from Chapter 11 Bankruptcy
Code protection with $3.5 billion of debt and $2.1 billion of
equity. Although an estimated $5.1 billion of debt and
liabilities has been eliminated, the retailer hopes to sell
stock to the public in the next six to 12 months to further
reduce its debt.
   "They are paying higher than bank rates, and it makes
sense for them to retire as much {debt} as they can," said
Herbert Lust, a managing director at Bear, Stearns  Co. Mr.
Lust, noting that Federated last week received $48 million
related to the sale of two former divisions to Macy in 1988,
speculated that Federated may use some of those funds to
retire some of its newly issued secured debt.
   Jeffrey Feiner, an analyst at Salomon Brothers Inc.,
sounded optimistic about Federated's immediate prospects,
despite the sluggish retail climate. "They possess dominant
market franchises in many major markets nationwide, they've
centralized their buying, and they've made technological
improvements," he said.
   But Carol Farmer, an analyst in Boca Raton, Fla.,
predicted that sales of apparel in both unit and dollar terms
will be flat for the rest of the decade. This is bad news for
department stores, she said, many of which spent the last
decade redeploying their assets so they could devote more
store space to apparel.
   "Department stores like Federated are going to have to go
back to their roots and commit themselves to offer
well-rounded departments outside of apparel, including hard
goods," Ms. Farmer said. "It's going to be one of Federated's
major challenges."
   The additional Federated subsidiaries are Abraham 
Straus, Bon Marche, Rich's/Goldsmith's, Lazarus and Stern's.