LEISURE  ARTS -- Bookshelf:
   Last Gasps of Soviet Sadness
   ----
   By Lee Lescaze
Even the saddest, even the silliest of life's adventures
are exalted, wide-screen, techni-colored, wraparound-sound
experiences. Her second story collection, "Sleepwalker in a
Fog" (Knopf, 192 pages, $19), translated into sparkling
English by Jamey Gambrell, is even better than her first, the
widely praised "On the Golden Porch." Although Ms. Tolstaya's
satirical eye still is sharp, mocking the fools and foolish
cruelties of the Soviet system, the overall tone of her new
stories is darker. Disappointment and loss are their common
theme, but it is one of Ms. Tolstaya's magic tricks that she
makes her tales extraordinarily charming for all their
sadness.
   Ms. Tolstaya is a poet of the unfulfilled life. Her
characters don't ask for much. Just a season of love, some
moments of passion. But even that eludes them. To judge by
her women's experiences, a good man is as hard to find in
Moscow or Leningrad as in the cities of the U.S. And Ms.
Tolstaya can describe the situation with a grin, or with a
tear.
   In the story "The Poet and His Muse," she is grinning:
"Nina was a marvelous woman, an ordinary woman, a doctor, and
it goes without saying that she had her right to personal
happiness like everyone else. . . . Nearing the age of
thirty-five after a lengthy period of joyless trial and error
-- not even worth talking about -- she knew precisely what
she needed: a wild, true love, with tears, bouquets, midnight
phone vigils, nocturnal taxi chases, fateful obstacles,
betrayals and forgiveness."
   In the elegiac "The Moon Came Out," the pathetic, romantic
Natasha, now past 50 but still dreaming of love, touches the
heart:
   "On the summer boulevards sat old women who had known a
better life: gilded cups, the frosty flows of lace hems, the
tiny antlike facets of foreign fragrance vials, and perhaps
-- indeed, most likely -- secret lovers. . . .
   "But nearby, heavily spreading their swollen legs, with
drooping hands and drooping heads wrapped in dotted
kerchiefs, flames all snuffed out, like dead swans sat those
who had lived for years in brown communal kitchens, in dim
corridors, those who had slept on iron frame beds . . ."
Natasha, unable to see she is already condemned to sit with
these women, fantasizes she will take her place with the
others, the clean and pink old ladies.
   It is out of such blighted dreams that Ms. Tolstaya finds
her larger themes -- the departure of youth, the swift
passage of a lifetime. Childhood is richly remembered, but
characters often reflect on how much of their lives has sped
past to so little purpose. In "Most Beloved," a woman
remembers being told in youth to wish not to be the
prettiest, but to be the best beloved. In vain. Ms. Tolstaya
writes: "Her youth fluttered by and departed without
attracting anyone's attention."
   Not that many of Ms. Tolstaya's characters aren't
privileged, at least by Soviet standards. Many have "dachas"
to remember. Children have nannies. Some have sufficient
leisure to be foolish in ways not unfamiliar in Western
yuppielands. "Ah, my beauty, I should have your worries,"
sighs a man in the story "Sleepwalker in a Fog" after
listening to his lover muse about how nice it would be if she
had a furry tail.
   The same story features a bizarre faith healer who cures
by spitting into a supplicant's mouth, and a psychic every
bit as mercenary as Jim and Tammy Bakker.
   Even Ms. Tolstaya's less successful stories -- and I think
the long story "Limpopo," which ends this collection, is weak
-- have witty or charming moments. The poet protagonist of
"Limpopo" treasures honesty, so he writes honest obituaries
and promptly gets fired from a newspaper job. Later his
insistence on being honest about how a recipe tastes costs
him a second job. But what sets "Limpopo" apart from the
seven other stories in this collection is not its substance,
but its style. For long stretches Ms. Tolstaya's magic
language deserts her and the writing goes flat.
   Ms. Tolstaya, granddaughter of Alexei Tolstoy, the "Red
Count" who sided with the Bolsheviks, and a distant relative
of Leo Tolstoy, has published articles on the Soviet
political scene in addition to fiction. She argued forcibly
when Mikhail Gorbachev was at his zenith in Western popular
opinion that he was an enemy of democracy and would have to
be replaced.
   But politics barely touch the world of her stories, which
combine the fantastical tradition of Russian writers like
Bulgakov with a very modern sensibility. She conjures up
visions like those of a Chagall painting -- only not as
innocent.