U.S. Exaggerated High-Tech Weapons'
   Success in Iraq, Private Analysis Finds
   ----
   By John J. Fialka
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
While the attacks by Stealth fighter-bombers and Tomahawk
missiles were touted constantly in the briefers' version of
the air war and in Pentagon budgets, the real destruction of
Iraq's military capability came from raids by aging B-52s on
the Iraqi army in the south, said Mr. Arkin. Those raids, he
noted, were kept largely secret during the war.
   "There was no connection between the air war in the north
and the war in the south," he said at a press conference. He
added that the Iraqi army had little use during the war for
the civilian power system or the telephone system, both of
which were bombed extensively in the north.
   Mr. Arkin said that many of the impressions given U.S.
television viewers by Pentagon briefers in Riyadh, Saudi
Arabia, and Washington were misleading. Among the examples he
cited was the strike on a downtown building housing Iraq's
telephone-switching center. Videotapes taken during the first
night of the war showed a direct hit on the building's roof,
and briefers suggested that the facility was destroyed. But
according to Mr. Arkin, the electronic-switching equipment
and other gear in the building had been removed before the
war.
   The phone-switching building, along with the buildings
housing the ministries of Defense and Industry and the Baath
Party headquarters, all of which were described as destroyed
by U.S. briefers, "were empty when they were hit," said Mr.
Arkin, who conducted his research as part of a team sponsored
by Harvard University.
   Mr. Arkin, who said he has given his briefing several
times at the Pentagon and has had access to U.S. targeting
plans, said that Iraqi officials estimated that only 506
Iraqis died during the raids on Baghdad, which has a
population of 4.4 million people. But the strikes knocked out
most of Iraq's electric power, and Mr. Arkin believes that
between 70,000 and 90,000 civilians may have died later
because of the cascading effect of electrical shortages on
hospitals and water and sewage-treatment facilities.
   An Air Force spokeswoman in Washington said officials
hadn't yet received the report and wouldn't have any comment
until they reviewed it. Spokesmen for the U.S. Central
Command in Tampa, Fla., which developed the initial plans for
the air war, also declined to comment.
   Mr. Arkin also said the U.S. gave false information on the
destruction of a mosque in Basra, claiming that Iraq had
purposely dismantled the mosque to fabricate bomb damage.
   "The evidence is unambiguous that this building was
bombed," said Mr. Arkin. He said his research shows that a
concussion from a nearby U.S. bombing raid on an Iraqi naval
facility collapsed the dome of the mosque. A week later, he
added, "an errant laser-guided bomb" aimed at a nearby
telecommunications facility collapsed part of the mosque's
walls.
   While U.S. briefers denied they aimed at civilian food
supplies, Mr. Arkin said he had examined the ruins of seven
government warehouses in southern Iraq that had been
destroyed in the bombing. "They were full of the debris of
foodstuffs, baby clothes and liquor" that were being stored
for use in a civilian rationing program, Mr. Arkin asserted.
   Mr. Arkin said that Air Force generals changed targeting
plans from day to day -- driven by political sensitivities,
"whatever they saw in the media," and by pilots' yearning for
"single-point targets," such as bridges, which could be
destroyed in a single strike.
   The distorted image given to Americans was not only the
result of Pentagon briefers, according to Mr. Arkin. He said
the U.S. press did an "abysmal job" of covering the war.
Checking press reports of the destruction of the ministries
of Trade and Oil, he found them undamaged. He found that a
building described in the press as a historically important
downtown palace had been destroyed, but he discovered it
housed offices of the Iraqi ministry of defense. A report of
a B-52 raid on Basra, he said, was unfounded.
   The highly selective nature of the U.S. raids over
Baghdad, Mr. Arkin asserted, may have encouraged Iraqi
officials to think that "if they just hold tight, the
Americans will go away." He said Iraqis have been able to
restore many facilities quickly because of their pre-war
storage of computers and electronic gear. For instance, he
said the switching center had a lot of external damage when
he visited it in August but was filled with working
equipment.
   Mr. Arkin said one official he interviewed, Iraq's
minister of industry, told him that Iraq was prepared for
much more devastation, and that Iraqis were puzzled by the
U.S. Air Force's selectivity. "Carpet bombing," the minister
told Mr. Arkin. "We would have understood that."