Panelists Compete
   To Pinpoint Faults
   In Competitiveness
   ---
   Uncle Sam to Blame, Says
   U.S. Group; Executives
   Tar Bad Corporate Bosses
   ----
   By Bob Davis
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
That's missing the point, counters a panel of corporate
executives. Lousy corporate bosses are to blame, and it says
that board members shouldn't become captives of the
businesses they direct.
   The difference between the two blue-ribbon panels, which
coincidentally both released reports yesterday, mirrors the
sharp division among Americans about what's wrong with the
U.S. competitively and what should be done to fix it. That
debate is picking up in intensity with the presidential
campaign and the increasingly bitter sniping between Japanese
and U.S. leaders.
   The Competitiveness Policy Council, a panel created by
Congress during the Trade Act of 1988, says the government
must reform its policies concerning taxes, education,
technology, health care and trade to help U.S.
competitiveness. The council, headed by economist C. Fred
Bergsten, director of the Institute for International
Economics, recommends that the administration issue
"competitiveness impact statements" for each bill it submits
to Congress.
   Mr. Bergsten says such statements would be a kind of
"consciousness raising" for government and that it would
foster concern for competitiveness in the same fashion that
environmental impact statements have flagged environmental
issues. The Trade Act mandated the competitiveness statements
for a six-year trial period. But so far, both the
administration and Congress have ignored the requirement.
   The council calls for creating an agency -- perhaps a
strengthened Commerce Department or International Trade
Commission -- to assess the future of important American
industries, plot "visions" of how they could expand, and
monitor competitors abroad. The panel would authorize U.S.
intelligence agencies to collect information about foreign
competitors. The administration is likely to reject plans
that rely on the government to direct technology-based
industries.
   A panel of current and former senior corporate executives,
appointed by the National Academy of Engineering, took a look
at narrower aspects of competitiveness and found business to
be largely the obstacle. "Unless CEOs and boards are
competent and able to manage for the long term, then the rest
doesn't matter much," says Donal Frey, a Northwestern
University engineering professor, who headed the panel. Mr.
Frey is a former chief executive officer at Bell  Howell
Corp.
   Mr. Frey's panel rejected as "too simplistic" the commonly
held notion that U.S. companies are too short-term minded.
The better-managed firms look to the long term, according to
the panel, while the lamer firms don't. The panel recommends
that corporate boards name directors who are independent of
the chief executive officer, and that they increase the
portion of a director's compensation that is paid in stock or
stock options-giving directors the incentive to look at
long-term company performance.