Marketing  Media -- Advertising:
   Hollywood Producer's Coke Ad
   Is Seen as New Industry Threat
   ----
   By Joanne Lipman
Mr. Stark, on the heels of Hollywood powerbroker Michael
Ovitz and his Creative Artists Agency, has set himself up as
something of a marketing consultant to Coca-Cola. Mr. Stark
conceived of the idea of a satirical Coke commercial based
loosely on Columbia Pictures' upcoming release "Dracula" --
even though he isn't affiliated with the movie or the studio.
And he helped think up about six other potential commercials,
each spoofing a different movie or genre.
   "It was a natural marriage," Mr. Stark said Friday. Though
CAA was hired by Coke last September to act as a world-wide
marketing consultant, Mr. Stark was able to circumvent the
agency because of his longstanding relationship with Coke
from the days when it owned Columbia prior to its sale to
Sony Corp. He not only is a major Coke shareholder, but is
friends with Coke's top marketing executive, Peter Sealey.
Mr. Sealey oversaw marketing at Columbia when Coke owned the
studio, a period during which Mr. Stark produced many movies
for Columbia and its sister studio, Tri-Star Pictures.
   Mr. Stark took pains to stress that CAA wasn't involved in
his Dracula concept, though Joel Schumacher, who directed the
Dracula commercial, is a CAA client whose films include
"Dying Young," "The Lost Boys," and "Flatliners." Mr. Stark
also says he wasn't paid by Coke and paints his foray into
advertising as an amusing diversion. "This was just one
moment of fun," he said. "I certainly am not involved, nor do
I want to be involved, in the advertising business. . . .
Like Diet Coke, it was just for the fun it."
   But on Madison Avenue, where word of the Dracula spot
leaked out last week, the Dracula incident was seen as yet
another threat from Hollywood. Mr. Stark not only created the
concept of the ad -- a job traditionally handled by ad
agencies -- but instead of going to Coke's long-standing ad
agencies, units of Interpublic Group, he hired WPP Group's
Seiniger Advertising. (One executive from Interpublic's
McCann-Erickson was brought in later.)
   As for Coke's relationship with CAA, when Coke announced
that it hired the agency for marketing consulting last fall,
it insisted that CAA wouldn't create advertising. But
speculation spread last week that Mr. Ovitz had hired an
advertising headhunter to find creative talent. And several
executives familiar with the Coke relationship say that CAA,
which represents an impressive roster of Hollywood actors,
directors, writers, and producers, has attempted to come up
with ideas for campaigns and slogans.
   Mr. Ovitz "would like to do everything," including "big,
bold, splashy commercials," says one executive familiar with
the arrangements.
   A CAA spokesman shrugs off the speculation, saying reports
about headhunters are "not accurate" and adding, "We aren't
competitive with anybody in that {advertising} business.
We're all working together, and there's plenty of room at the
table."
   One executive familiar with the situation said that CAA
and Interpublic have patched up past differences recently.
The two didn't work together at first, and some ad agency
insiders felt that CAA was usurping their place, the
executive said. But top executives from each met recently,
and "there's a very good working relationship" now, the
executive said. The problems "are past."
   A Coke spokeswoman says simply, "from our standpoint,
there is no confusion" over the roles of its two advisers.
Interpublic executives declined comment.
   Still, for an ad industry mired in a deep recession, any
foray by Hollywood into its business is worrisome. "The line
between show business and advertising is getting fuzzier all
the time," says Gary Burandt, president and chief executive
officer of ad agency Dentsu Young  Rubicam. "We've got
plenty of competition" just from other ad agencies, he says.
"Just from that aspect, we don't need any more."
   Mr. Stark, who is currently working on five film projects
including Neil Simon's "Lost in Yonkers," says he wasn't
thinking about invading ad agency turf when he coined the
Dracula idea. He came up with the concept, he says, simply
because "Dracula" director Francis Ford Coppola "is a good
friend of mine . . . and I thought it might be fun."
   Initially, Mr. Stark envisioned a tie-in with the movie,
which will be released at Thanksgiving. But he says Columbia
passed on his idea, though it didn't object to him pursuing
the Dracula concept with Coke. Columbia confirms that version
of events. Mr. Stark brought in Seiniger to produce the spot
because he had worked with the agency's president, Tony
Seiniger, on movie trailers and commercials before. Mr.
Seiniger "has already six similar commercials {spoofing}
other pictures in the works," Mr. Stark said.
   The finished spot, say people who have seen it, is a spoof
of the Dracula story, complete with a beautiful woman who,
when about to be bitten on the neck by the bloodthirsty
vampire, pulls out a Coke and gives him that instead. If the
ad runs -- and it isn't yet a sure thing, one executive said
-- it would finish airing before the movie comes out so as to
avoid confusion. And a spokesman for Sony Pictures,
Columbia's corporate parent, doesn't rule out some official
tie-in with their movie later.
   While Coke won't comment on the Dracula spot, that didn't
stop the ad world from buzzing about it last week. "I guess
the advertising business is the same as Hollywood -- a
gossipy community," Mr. Stark said Friday. "I didn't realize
that a one-minute commercial could create as much attention
as a two-hour picture."
   ---
   McCaw Slips From Burnett
                                                                                                       

   Leo Burnett Co., Chicago, lost McCaw Cellular
Communications' national advertising account nine months
after winning the assignment. The Kirkland, Wash., cellular
phone company awarded the estimated $10 million account to
Richards Group, Dallas. Richards is among four regional
agencies that produces McCaw's local advertising.
   The move from Burnett comes just as Cellular One Group, a
Dallas joint venture of McCaw, Southwestern Bell and Vanguard
Cellular Systems, is reviewing agencies to handle a separate
new national campaign for the Cellular One brand.
   ---
   Ad Notes. . . .
                                                                                                       

   GREY: Grey Advertising reported a fourth-quarter loss of
$5.7 million, or $4.57 a share, compared with net income in
the year-earlier period of $3.9 million, or $2.90 a share.
The loss stems from an expected $11 million charge related to
severance costs, real estate and good will in the closing of
its Levine, Huntley, Schmidt  Beaver unit last November. Net
income for the year was $4.3 million, or $3.51 a share, down
70% from 1990 net income of $14.6 million, or $10.97 a share.
                                                                                                       

   DOLLAR RENT A CAR: Los Angeles company Dollar Systems
Inc., franchiser of the Dollar Rent a Car chain, said it
consolidated its consumer and business advertising with FKQ
Advertising, Clearwater, Fla. The estimated $5 million
account had been handled until last year by the now-defunct
Irvine office of Saatchi  Saatchi Co.'s ACR Advertising.
                                                                                                       

   WHO'S NEWS: Foote, Cone  Belding, Chicago, named Patrick
J. Coll the new president of its Krupp/Taylor direct-mail
operation. Mr. Coll, 44 years old, replaces Robert
Buckingham, 54, whose departure from Krupp/Taylor follows a
year of severe losses at the Los Angeles unit, contributing
to a nearly $30 million loss for FCB in the fourth-quarter.