Letters to the Editor:
   Worldwatch Wolf Keeps Crying
Indeed, Mr. Brown has made similar claims of scarce grain
supplies in almost every year of the past quarter-century. In
1974, for instance, he claimed grain supplies were then
equivalent to only "27 days of consumption." In 1976, he
alleged that global grain supplies for that year amounted to
"31 days," while in 1980 the figure was "40 days."
Subsequently, while never admitting error, Mr. Brown
published data indicating that the 1974 figure was actually
"61 days," and the 1976 and 1980 figures were 79 and 71
"days," respectively.
   Although Mr. Brown now professes concern over an alleged
"68 days" grain supply leading to "an extremely volatile
price situation," he has long held that the "danger point"
below which the world's supplies should not fall was 50 "days
of consumption." That level, he said, ensured adequate food
supplies and price stability. In 1985, e.g., he noted that
1984's "level of grain and cropland reserves equaled 56 days
of world food consumption, more than enough to maintain
relatively stable prices in world grain markets."
   Mr. Brown recently switched to a new, higher "danger
level" for his "days of consumption" figure in order to
support his scarcity claims in the face of adequate, if not
outright burdensome, grain reserves. Incidentally, the U.S.
Agriculture Department does not sanction Mr. Brown's methods
nor use his "days of consumption" ploy. Indeed, every USDA
report cautions that the grain supply data "should not be
construed as representing world stock levels at a fixed point
in time," as Mr. Brown continually does.
   Meanwhile, this nation's winter-wheat crop, some 80% of
the year's total production, lies dormant in the ground with
ideal weather and soil moisture. An article in the
Commodities Corner of Barron's took note of this situation
and predicted a "coming blizzard in wheat" at next spring's
harvest.
   If that proves true, one wonders what new stratagem Mr.
Brown will employ so that he may continue to cry wolf.
   James A. Miller
   Director of Research
   Population Research Institute
   Gaithersburg, Md.