Labor Letter:
   A Special News Report on People
   And Their Jobs in Offices,
   Fields and Factories
   ----
   By Albert R. Karr
Many employers want execs skilled in health care,
marketing, the environment, accounting and controlling costs.
People with East European backgrounds also are favored,
Russell Reynolds says. Ward Howell and Korn Ferry say there
is a big appetite for "crisis" execs to reorganize firms
emerging from bankruptcy or to manage ones headed for it.
   But officials with Foster Partners, Korn Ferry and
Heidrick  Struggles question whether this is a trend or a
short-lived, possibly seasonal, "blip."
                                                                                                       

   WAGE RISES NARROWED in 1991, and health-cost shifting
increased.
   That is the conclusion of a Bureau of National Affairs
study of 984 collective bargaining agreements for more than
2.1 million workers. The median first-year wage increase was
3.9%, down from 4% in 1990. Median wage gains were 3.4% for
manufacturing, 3.7% for construction and 4.5% for other
non-manufacturing. The lowest rise was 2% in the rubber
industry; the highest was 6.9% in health-care services.
   Including lump-sum payments, the biggest gain was 9% for
railroad workers. But just 12% of 1991 contracts had lump
sums, compared with 16% in 1990. Some 210 contracts include
provisions to shift health costs to employees; that is up
from 184 in 1990.
                                                                                                       

   LETTING VERY-ILL PATIENTS decide their fate is advocated
by some.
   The Manufacturers' Alliance for Productivity and
Innovation says, "We typically overtreat the dying," using
costly tests and treatment with minimum effect. It says 5,000
to 10,000 people are in "a persistent vegetative state," at a
yearly cost of up to $1.2 billion. The funds otherwise could
be used more productively, MAPI contends.
   The report's author, William Nelson, director of medical
humanities at Dartmouth Medical School in Hanover, N.H.,
urges employers to promote informed decisions by those who
may become permanently unconscious or are terminally ill. A
1990 Supreme Court ruling and the 1990 Budget Act push
doctors and hospitals to respect such decisions by competent
patients.
   Mr. Nelson says patient choice must be promoted "in a very
sensitive, caring" manner. He would regret "if anyone would
take this in a callous way."
                                                                                                       

   PRESIDENT BUSH plans to visit Cabletron Systems in
Rochester, N.H., noted for a tough labor-cost-curbing policy,
on his first 1992 campaign trip tomorrow. The computer
network systems firm, formed in a garage eight years ago, had
recent nine-month sales of $208 million; it is expected to
use the Bush visit to announce expansion plans, including the
hiring of 200 workers.
                                                                                                       

   WORK-FORCE RISES are planned this year by 22% of 1,170
small firms, according to a Gallup poll for National Small
Business United; 10% foresee cuts. Hiring plans are heavily
tied to new market development, especially in international
trade.
                                                                                                       

   FAMILY LEAVE: Of 1,000 Americans in another Gallup poll --
for the Employee Benefit Research Institute -- 76% said
employers should be required to provide unpaid leaves for
childbirth or adoption. Most favor giving four to 15 weeks.
About 25% said they would judge a presidential candidate by
his childcare and family-leave views.
                                                                                                       

   HELP WANTED: Sioux Falls, S.D., with an unemployment rate
of just 2.5%, promotes the town for job seekers in newspaper
ads in Iowa, Illinois, Minnesota, Ohio, Wyoming and
California. Some 2,000 responses have been received so far,
and employment agencies report a surge in applicant interest,
officials say.
                                                                                                       

   MANAGERS REFEREE growing staff conflicts.
   Line chiefs at Gehl Co., a West Bend, Wis., farm and
industrial equipment firm, spend over 25% of their time on
personality clashes, "up significantly" from two years ago. A
spokeswoman blames cost cuts, reorganization and rapid
growth. A Johnson Controls unit trains employees on resolving
conflicts. Personnel firm Accountemps says managers devote an
average of seven weeks a year to handling disputes.
   With sales down and jobs threatened, managers spend 20% of
their time handling conflicts, up from 10% two years ago,
says Bill Evans, a Menlo Park, Calif., industrial
psychologist. But Georgia-Pacific lessens management clashes
that arose after its 1990 takeover of Great Northern Nekoosa.
Urging people to speak up and making them aware of
colleagues' operating styles help avert conflicts at
Rubbermaid and Pancoast Personnel in Pittsburgh.
   Corning reduces clashes by giving employees a bigger say,
keeping a good work environment and avoiding staff cuts.
                                                                                                       

   THE CHECKOFF: Going West: 10 "permanently replaced"
strikers from the Frontier Hotel in Las Vegas begin a
300-mile walk to Los Angeles, protesting on behalf of 550
such strikers. . . . Really going West: Stephen Carducci, a
laid-off Cineplex Odeon Theatres PR man, will bicycle from
New York to Hollywood next month in search of a job. . . .
Members of the 30,000-strong United Teachers-Los Angeles took
a 3% pay cut, the school district's first since the
Depression; it is to be repaid over four years.