Delta Will Buy
   Nine Airbus Jets
   For $600 Million
   ----
   By Bridget O'Brian
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The order came as a blow to Boeing Co., Airbus's rival,
which already was bracing for a possible slowing in Delta's
schedule for receiving airliners already on order.
   The Airbus order comes just a day after Delta said it was
trying to control its costs as a means of coping with the
recession and that it might consider slowing deliveries -- as
larger rivals AMR Corp. and UAL Corp. have done -- although
no changes were expected for about two months. Delta
currently has 549 jets in its fleet and has orders and
options for an additional 454.
   Even if Delta does decide to rejigger its fleet, it still
needs the additional international capacity that the A310s
give it. Since November, Delta has more than doubled its
trans-Atlantic service, and it says European bookings for
summer look strong. Delta also has plans to expand in the
Pacific, although plans to build a hub in Taipei, Taiwan,
this year have been put off for a year as part of its
cost-cutting effort.
   Delta made its largest expansion, the Pan Am purchase,
just as AMR's American Airlines and UAL's United Airlines
started cutting back. The airline industry has been buffeted
by two years of the largest losses in aviation history. Delta
itself has predicted it will continue to have losses through
its fiscal year, which ends June 30.
   The Airbus A310-300 is a twin-engine jet that will seat
179 passengers in Delta's first-class, business-class and
coach-class configuration. It has a range of more than 5,000
nautical miles and will be powered by Pratt  Whitney PW4152
engines. According to Avmark Inc., a Virginia airline
consulting firm, a new Airbus A310-300 is valued at $66.5
million. It competes directly with Boeing's 767-ER jet.
   Delta, whose fleet includes Boeing, McDonnell Douglas
Corp. and Lockheed Corp. jets, had never bought Airbus
aircraft until it acquired Pan Am's. John Leahy, Airbus's
senior vice president of marketing and sales, said his
company was very pleased with Delta's order. "We've been
trying to persuade Delta to buy our aircraft for years," he
said. He wouldn't comment on whether Airbus provided a
special price for the nine aircraft or if there were other
incentives. "The airplane sells itself," he said.
   But in Seattle, a Boeing spokesman suggested that pricing
was at the heart of Delta's decision not to add to its
current fleet of "extended-range" 767-300s and to choose
Airbuses instead. "In some cases, our competition can make
better offers than we're able to make," the spokesman said.
   Boeing, which has long complained that the Airbus
Industrie European consortium can benefit from government
subsidies when it prices airliners, noted that Delta "has
been a very long-term customer for Boeing planes, and we
expect them to be a customer in the future."
   The Boeing spokesman wouldn't comment on Delta's hints
that a slowing of its delivery schedule for aircraft may be
in the works.
   Separately, Boeing confirmed that Air New Zealand is
delaying until 1996 the delivery of six smaller 737 aircraft
it had expected to take in 1994. Air New Zealand's decision,
which Boeing said reflects the airline's plan to install new
"hush kits" to enable some older 737s to meet new
airport-noise restrictions, is another sign that there has
been some softness in 737 demand lately. Boeing recently said
that in October it will reduce the monthly output of the
plane to 14 from 21.