Technology  Health:
   Unisys Nears
   Favorable Pact
   With Its Banks
   ----
   By Steven Lipin and Paul B. Carroll
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
The sources close to the bank talks said the computer and
defense-electronics concern is close to an agreement to
extend the January 1993 maturity of its crucial $1.25 billion
revolving credit line. That would give the Blue Bell, Pa.,
company more breathing room to reduce debt.
   The company is also close to raising an additional $200
million to $300 million from the banks for seasonal working
capital needs, the sources said. While the company ended the
year with $800 million of cash on its books, it has been
trying to keep as big a cushion as possible to allay
customers' concerns about the possibility it would face a
liquidity problem. The company has borrowed only $1.05
billion under its credit line, but rather than borrow under
the existing line, Unisys would set up a separate facility
and would pledge assets as collateral.
   A spokesman for Unisys said the company was discussing
with its lenders either amending the facility or arranging a
new credit line but declined to comment further. Morgan
Guaranty Trust Co., lead bank in the 23-member syndicate for
the revolving credit line, wouldn't comment.
   "They don't have any real financing needs," said Rick
Martin, a computer analyst at Chicago Corp. "What they need
are better terms."
   Bankers said they were optimistic that the deal would be
completed within the next month or two. Last year,
negotiations for additional capital fell apart because of
resistance by a handful of banks. But the solid
fourth-quarter profit was said to have helped with a number
of banks who were sitting on the fence, bankers said.
   In the interview, Mr. Braun said that the order pickup
Unisys saw in the fourth quarter continued into the first
quarter. Also, he said there has been a flurry of requests
from customers for bids for computer systems, and the sales
cycle is shortening, indicating that customers are more
inclined to spend these days. He said he couldn't predict how
much of the increased activity would translate into sales but
said the revenue outlook "is picking up, just about across
the product line."
   Mr. Braun said that while 70% of management's focus had
been on cost-cutting last year, and just 30% on generating
revenue, he hoped the company's improved performance would
allow those percentages to flip-flop this year. "If we don't
focus on the top line, we're going to save ourselves to
death," Mr. Braun said.
   He said the company will now start to focus more on
winning new customers, rather than just retaining the ones it
already has. His comments came just before the company's
announcement of a midrange computer called the A11, which he
said is well-positioned to attract new customers, especially
in such areas as local government.
   In late New York Stock Exchange trading yesterday, Unisys
stood at $9.50 a share, unchanged, more than double the level
a month ago. Volume was more than two million shares.