New Stock Listings
The New York Stock Exchange began trading last week the
following initial offerings: Toastmaster Inc., Columbia, Mo.,
a maker of electrical consumer appliances and time pieces,
under TM; American Income Holding Inc., Wilmington, Del., an
insurance holding company, under AIH; GFC Financial Corp.,
Phoenix, a financial services and insurance businesses
concern, under GFC.WI.
   Also on the Big Board, Fidelity National Financial Inc.,
Irvine, Calif., an issuer of title insurance policies and
other title related services began trading under FNF. OMI
Corp., New York, a bulk shipping company, begins trading on
the Big Board Friday under OMM. Both companies previously
traded on the Amex.
   The Big Board began trading Alex. Brown Inc., Baltimore,
an investment services firm, which previously traded over the
counter, under AB.
                                                                                                       

   On the Amex, Arrhythia Research Technology Inc., Austin,
Texas, a medical devices and supplies concern previously
traded on the Nasdaq System, began trading under HRT.
                                                                                                       

   The national market system of the over-the-counter market
began trading the following initial offerings: Abbey
Healthcare Group Inc., Costa Mesa, Calif., a health care
services and products concern, under ABBY; Delta Queen
Steamboat Co., New Orleans, a paddlewheel-driven steamboat
cruise company, under DQSB; Endosonics Corp., Pleasanton,
Calif., a maker of disposable catheters and imaging systems,
under ESON; Enhanced Imaging Technologies Inc., Irvine,
Calif., a visual images products and services concern, under
EITI; Gibraltar Packaging Group Inc., Hastings, Neb., a
paperboard packaging and paper products concern, under PACK;
Heart Technology Inc., Bellevue, Wash., a maker of devices
for treatment of atheroschlerosis, under HRTT; Opta Food
Ingredients Inc., Cambridge, Mass., a food ingredients firm,
under OPTS; PolyMedica Industries Inc., Woburn, Mass., a
maker of polyurethane-based medical products, under POLY;
Premier Anesthesia Inc., Atlanta, a provider of contract
anesthesiology services to hospitals, under PRAN; and
Vitalink Pharmacy Services Inc., Silver Spring, Md., an
operator of institutional pharmacies, under VTLK.
   Also on the national market system, Cellular
Communications of Puerto Rico Inc., New York, a cellular
telephone systems concern and a spinoff from Cellular
Communications Inc., began trading on the national market
system under CCPR.
                                                                                                       

   Separately, the Amex began trading options on Lennar
Corp., Miami, a home builder; OEA Inc., Denver, a propellant
and explosive-activated devices concern; Presley Cos.,
Newport Beach, Calif., a homebuilder company; and R.P.
Scherer Corp., Troy Mich., a soft gelatin capsule and
pharmaceutical firm.
                                                                                                       

   The Chicago Board Options Exchange began trading the
following options today: CytRx Corp., Norcross, Ga., a
biopharmaceutical firm; Maxtor Corp., San Jose, Calif., a
maker of Winchester disk drives and optical drives; Nova
Pharmaceutical Corp., Baltimore, a pharmaceutical concern;
and Sulcus Computer Corp., Greensburg, Pa., a developer of
automated systems for lodging, legal and real estate markets.