Technology:
   Bristol-Myers Squibb to Give Away
   Its Heart Drugs to Needy Patients
   ----
   By Michael Waldholz
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The giant health care products maker said it will begin a
campaign to notify doctors, through advertisements in medical
journals and personal sales calls, that it will cover the
cost of -- or seek insurance coverage for patients who can't
otherwise pay for -- 17 medicines it sells for heart
problems.
   Bristol-Myers called the program the most ambitious effort
of its type in the pharmaceutical industry. Many drug makers
already provide free medicines to uninsured patients, usually
on a case-by-case basis. Most of those programs aren't
aggressively advertised.
   But Bristol-Myers, which announced its program at a news
conference yesterday that included top officials of the
American Heart Association, said its effort goes beyond
others because it involves one of the drug industry's most
extensive lines of drugs for treating heart disease, the
U.S.'s leading killer. In particular, the program would make
available the company's widely used anti-hypertensive drug
Capoten, which had world-wide sales in 1991 of $1.6 billion.
   Over the past two years, the drug industry has faced a
barrage of criticism over annual price increases running
twice or three times the rate of inflation for all consumer
products. Sen. David A. Pryor (D., Ark.) and others in
Congress have threatened to press for controls if these price
increases aren't slowed. A law passed last year requires
companies to offer discounts to state Medicaid programs that
cover drug bills for the poor.
   In November, the American Heart Association issued a
report showing that many of the nation's working poor --
those not eligible for Medicaid and the uninsured -- face
health risks because they can't afford heart medicines. The
report said several states and companies already help some
uninsured patients get access to medicines. The association
called on other companies to set up similar programs.
   "Poor people are especially vulnerable to hypertension,"
said Harriet Dunstan, past president of the heart
association. "Many lives could be saved if only people had
access to medicine."
   The heart association said that Bristol-Myers was the
first company to respond to its call since the report was
issued. Bristol-Myers officials said the give-away makes
sense because the company already offers such a program to
cover the cost of its anti-cancer drugs and for its recently
released medicine for acquired immune deficiency syndrome
called Videx, or DDI.
   Richard Gelb, chairman and chief executive officer of
Bristol-Myers, said that even after the recent price
increases the company's medicines are fairly priced,
especially when compared with other health care services.
Still, he said, "We hear the public's concern."
   But, according to Robert Uhl, an analyst with Curran
Capital Management in New York who monitors drug price
increases, Bristol-Myers has kept up its aggressive price
hikes throughout the year. For instance, Bristol-Myers
charges pharmacies between $47.85 and $50.37 for a bottle of
100 pills of 25 milligram Capoten, up about 15% to 20% from
the $41.73 it charged last January.
   A Bristol-Myers spokesman said the company plans to hold
off additional Capoten price increases until 1993. He noted
that Monopril, a drug aimed at replacing Capoten, was
released in 1991 at 30% of Capoten's price.
   Mr. Uhl said the company's three pharmaceutical operations
raised the price of all medicines by between 11% and 16% in
1991. He said prices on average for industry drugs rose 10.1%
in 1991, down slightly from a 10.6% rise in 1990.
   "It's been our long-established policy for years to give
our drugs to people who doctors tell us can't pay for them,"
said a spokesman at Merck  Co. "We just never communicated
it before."