Conseco to Buy
   Majority Stake
   In an ICH Unit
   ----
   By James P. Miller
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Under terms of a letter of intent, Conseco Capital
Partners L.P. will acquire Bankers Life and one of its
subsidiaries, Certified Life Insurance Co., although other
subsididaries of Bankers would remain with ICH.
   Conseco Inc. is general partner of Conseco Capital
Partners, a limited partnership it formed in 1989 with GE
Capital Corp. and other institutional investors. One of those
investors is ICH, the seller in the deal announced yesterday.
   ICH, of Louisville, Ky., will "provide $150 million of the
financing for the acquisition, and, in return, retain a 40%
interest in Bankers Life," Conseco said. ICH "in essence is
providing seller financing," said a Conseco spokesman. The
40% retained stake will be augmented by its holdings as a
limited partner, he noted.
   ICH announced in November that it was in talks with a
then-undisclosed party to sell an equity interest in Bankers
Life. ICH is controlled by Consolidated National Corp., a
closely held concern that has a 23% ICH Class A stake and
holds all of the company's Class B shares, under which it is
allowed to elect three-quarters of ICH's directors.
   ICH is considered to have run into trouble because of its
own aggressive acquisition strategy, which contributed to a
heavy debt burden. Some of the problems came from a costly
purchase of a 20% stake in the ill-fated California insurance
company, First Executive Corp., now in bankruptcy
proceedings.
   Bankers Life primarily sells individual accident and
health insurance, through about 3,200 of its agents.
   Through the first nine months of 1991, ICH said, Bankers
Life had so-called statutory net income of $73.3 million and
assets of $1.6 billion.
   ICH called the transaction a "significant step forward in
{its} ongoing restructuring program," and a move that will
give the company additional capital "while retaining a
significant interest in Bankers Life."
   In American Stock Exchange trading yesterday, ICH shares
rose 25 cents, to $4.75.