Judge Approves
   Milken Accord
   Of $1.3 Billion
   ---
   Pact Settles About 170 Suits
   By Regulators, Investors,
   Others Over Failed SLs
   ----
   By Jonathan M. Moses
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Separately, as expected, Judge Pollack announced that U.S.
Bankruptcy Judge Francis G. Conrad had approved Drexel's $2.4
billion plan of reorganization. Judge Pollack said that he,
too, would approve the plan that will bring the bankruptcy
proceedings to an end.
   The FDIC had balked at approving the Milken agreement,
which settled suits by thrift regulators and others, after
members of Congress complained that it left Mr. Milken with
too much money. After the RTC said it would go along with the
deal, nonetheless, the FDIC board approved the settlement.
The RTC, under FDIC control until last year, is responsible
for selling the assets of insolvent savings-and-loan
companies.
   In return for the FDIC's support, Mr. Milken's lawyers
agreed to a provision allowing the government agencies to
inspect a list of Mr. Milken's assets as well as those of
about 40 top Drexel investment bankers. The goverment
agencies will also get to see a list that spells out exactly
how much each of the 200 former Drexel employees is
contributing under the deal. If, after examining those lists,
the FDIC and the RTC decide they made a bad deal, they can
still end the agreement.
   But Ira Millstein, the senior partner of the New York law
firm Weil, Gotshal  Manges, representing Drexel, said he
didn't expect there would be a change after examination of
this information. "When the dust settles we'll still have a
settlement," he said. "I don't think any of us would have
agreed to it if we didn't believe that was the case."
   The deal would settle about 170 suits filed by thrift
regulators, the insurance commissioner of California,
investors and Drexel against Mr. Milken and others. The suits
claimed, among other things, that Mr. Milken helped cause the
failure of more than 200 savings-and-loans and insurance
companies by manipulating the junk-bond market. He has denied
the allegations.
   The settlement calls for Mr. Milken to contribute $900
million, his former colleagues $300 million, and Drexel's
insurance companies $100 million. It would leave Mr. Milken
in control of as much as $500 million, $125 million of which
is in his name and the rest in his family's.
   Under terms of the agreement, about $500 million would go
to the government to reimburse it for the damages allegedly
caused to SLs. Another $84 million would go to the fixed
creditors of Drexel Burnham, which is expected to emerge late
next month from bankruptcy-court protection. The rest would
be divided among allegedly defrauded investors.
   The investors probably would be the last to start seeing
their money as committees are being set up to distribute the
funds based on how much harm was caused to each investor. The
committees will be overseen by the Securities and Exchange
Commission.
   California insurance regulators said that the settlement
includes $100 million collectively for policyholders of
Executive Life Insurance Co. and First Capital Life Insurance
Co. Both companies were seized by the regulators last spring
in the wake of financial difficulties related to their
junk-bond investments.
   The settlement also would drop Mr. Milken, his brother,
Lowell, and another former Drexel associate from a state
lawsuit brought last month by the regulators on behalf of
Executive Life policyholders against a number of defendants.
   Judge Pollack indicated that Mr. Milken's finances won't
be disclosed outside of the regulatory agencies, but members
of Congress already are circling. Rep. Henry Gonzalez (D.,
Texas), chairman of the House Banking Committee, said he was
fairly satisfied with the financial settlement. "Maybe it's
wise, in the end, to settle," he said.
   But, in an interview, he added that he intends to hold
hearings before the end of summer to examine how much of the
junk bond losses at banks and thrifts will be borne by
taxpayers. He will attempt, in particular, to extract Mr.
Milken's disclosure from the banking agencies. "What are they
afraid of?" he said. "It's astounding that the government
would be bargaining over this, when it needs the information
to do its job. They shouldn't have to beg for it. And they
certainly shouldn't seal it."
   The FDIC's Mr. Byrne, while leaving the courthouse,
declined to comment on whether the FDIC would agree to turn
over the information to Congress. All parties to the
agreement said it would be up to Judge Pollack to decide
what, if anything, must be disclosed and to whom. In an
earlier interview, the judge said he didn't favor turning
over the material to Congress and satisfying what he called
the public's "idle curiosity."
   Thus, depending on what the judge decides, the potential
for a conflict exists between Judge Pollack and Congress.
Moreover, the thrift regulators could find themselves with
the choice of facing contempt charge in Congress for not
answering questions concerning Mr. Milken's assets or facing
contempt charges in Judge Pollack's courtroom if they do
answer them.
   The lawyers were negotiating the settlement up to the last
minute yesterday. Even after the hearing, at a news
conference, the lawyers continued to spar over the
definitions of various terms.
   At the hearing, Judge Pollack, who has taken an active
role in pushing the parties to settle, smiled broadly as the
final pieces of the complex deal fell into place. He told the
remaining objectors, mostly former Drexel employees, that
they had a "choice" to join in the settlement, in return for
which they get protection against future lawsuits related to
their Drexel activity. If they didn't contribute to the
settlement, Judge Pollack told those objecting, they would
risk facing lawsuits related to Drexel on their own.
   Former Drexel employees asked to contribute to the
settlement have five days to review the agreement and decide
whether to participate. Several have said that they think
they are being asked to contribute too much and that Mr.
Milken unfairly controlled the terms. Judge Pollack told
those making that objection that it was "an internal matter"
they had to take up with Mr. Milken's attorneys.
   Richard Sandler, Mr. Milken's personal attorney, said that
it was difficult for Mr. Milken to "settle claims that you
don't feel have any merit" but that his client wanted to put
the lawsuits behind him.
   Meanwhile, approval of Drexel's reorganization plan, after
two years of bankruptcy-court proceedings, will permit the
firm to emerge with the name of New Street Capital. It will
function as a small investment firm with the chief
responsibility of managing a $400 million portfolio, mostly
of junk bonds, for the benefit of Drexel's creditors.
   Under the reorganization plan, Drexel's creditors are
expected to get between 50 cents and 75 cents on every dollar
they are owed. Under the plan, the first payments are
scheduled to begin in late April, when the reorganization
plan is set to take effect.
   In a statement, Ralph S. Saul, Drexel's chairman, praised
Judges Pollack and Conrad and said: "In light of the
complexity of the issues and the many parties involved, all
of our constituents should be pleased with the outcome."
   ---
   Paulette Thomas in Washington contributed to this article.