International:
   UN Presses
   Libya to Comply
   In Bomb Probes
   ----
   By Gerald F. Seib
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The resolution "strongly deplores" Libya for failing to
cooperate with the investigation, and urges Tripoli to
"provide a full and effective response." The resolution,
which was approved by the council's 15 members, came after
Libyan officials appeared to deny involvement in the
bombings.
   Tripoli, which has said it is willing to try the accused
in Libya, isn't likely to comply with the terms of the
resolution. If it fails to comply, American officials said,
the U.S. and its allies intend to seek soon a follow-up
resolution that would impose economic sanctions on Libya.
   Thomas R. Pickering, U.S. ambassador to the U.N., called
yesterday's action "a first step in what could be a series of
resolutions," according to wire service reports. But it isn't
clear how soon sanctions would be sought, or exactly how
broad they would be, officials said. Decisions on the timing
and breadth of sanctions will depend in part on how Libya
responds to yesterday's resolution, they said.
   U.S. officials once thought the evidence of Libyan
involvement in the 1988 bombing of Pan Am Flight 103 over
Lockerbie, Scotland, in which 270 people were killed, and the
1989 bombing of a French airliner over North Africa, in which
170 people died, could lead to the imposition of widespread
economic sanctions, possibly including an embargo on
purchases of Libyan oil. But it now isn't clear that there is
broad international support for such sweeping action.
Sanctions, if they are adopted, could be limited to an
international ban on civil aviation links with Libya and an
embargo on sales of aircraft and aircraft spare parts to the
country.
   In any event, U.S. and allied officials decided to avoid
seeking any sanctions now, calculating that international
support would be higher after passage of an initial
resolution giving Libya clear warning.
   American and European anger against Tripoli has risen in
recent months. In November, the U.S. and Britain indicted two
Libyan agents for the Pan Am bombing. Earlier, France issued
warrants for four Libyans in the bombing of the French
airliner.
   With support for terrorist actions apparently receding in
Syria, Iraq and Iran, U.S. officials have been eager to move
against Libya, which also has traditionally sponsored
terrorist organizations. By clamping down on Libya now, U.S.
officials hope to put a long-term crimp in the Middle East
terrorism network that flourished in the 1970s and 1980s.
   But even if the Bush administration succeeds in
orchestrating a move against Libya now, it likely will be
criticized for its handling of the issue. The families of the
victims of the Pan Am 103 bombing are upset at the slow pace
of the effort to penalize Libya. And they charge that the
administration has turned a blind eye to Syrian and Iranian
complicity in planning related terrorist attacks that led to
the Pan Am bombing.