Global View:
   Bush's Coming Bout Is a World-Class Event
   ----
   By George Melloan
Finance ministers and central bankers of the seven leading
industrial democracies, meeting in New York two weekends ago,
agreed that global economic activity had weakened since their
previous "G-7" meeting, threatening expanded unemployment and
a wave of protectionism. They promised to address the
problem, but without specifying how. They clearly implied,
however, that it would help a lot if the U.S. got its
economic act together.
   Because the U.S. presidential election comes in November,
it is natural to assume that my reference to a "political
struggle" has to do with Republicans and Democrats. But
that's only part of the equation. The battle Mr. Bush joined
at the big annual Capitol Hill power pageant last week is
more accurately defined as a continuation of the historic
struggle between the two most powerful arms of the U.S.
government, the presidency and Congress. If Mr. Bush is to
have a coherent economic policy he will have to fight for it.
Even in the best of times -- let alone a highly charged
election year with the opposing party in control of Congress
-- that takes some doing.
   The American political system demands nothing less. James
Madison locked horns with his former allies, the Federalists,
over national debt refinancing. Harry Truman railed at the
"do-nothing 80th Congress." Ronald Reagan took his case for
tax reform directly to the American people and succeeded, in
part because it made good economic sense.
   But the American system of representative government has
developed a worrisome glitch. Over the years, members of
Congress have arranged to give themselves permanent tenure.
Republicans and Democrats alike have become career
politicians, responding not so much to the broad needs of the
country but to whatever it takes to keep their jobs. These
two things are not always incompatible. But some laws that
have helped congressmen win re-election -- such as the
incredibly costly bailout for their friends in the
savings-and-loan and real-estate-development business -- can
be blamed in part for the country's current malaise. That
congressmen are good judges of their own self-interest -- if
not the public interest -- is demonstrated by the fact that
more than 96% of those who run for re-election win.
   Serving narrow constituencies usually means subsidization
and protection of economic inefficiency, not to mention huge
drains on the public exchequer. It thus remains for the
president to try to uphold sound economic principles, such as
selfsufficiency and competition in the private sector and
strict limits on public-sector interference in the normal,
market-based conduct of business.
   President Bush has been slow in perceiving that he cannot
have a sound economic policy while at the same time catering
to the motivational instincts of Congress, the federal
bureaucracy and the wealthy population of power brokers and
contractors who dominate the political culture inside the
Beltway. His hoped-for "kinder and gentler" administration
was an offer to allow himself to be mugged. In last week's
address, he attempted to introduce his audience to a new,
confrontational George Bush. He challenged Congress to enact
his economic program by March 20, which of course it won't
do. He suggested he will take his case to the people if
necessary. It will require that, and more.
   At least the American people are a mostly sympathetic
audience. They figured out the problem with Congress and the
Beltway a long time ago, which is why they keep trying to
elect "outsider" presidents and why there is substantial
support for term limits for congress-persons.
   Mr. Bush's economic program runs toward short-term
gimmicks but there are a few fundamentals worth fighting for.
It would be a shame, for example, if he again lets the left
overwhelm his proposal for a cut in the capital-gains tax
with mindless class-warfare battle cries. House Speaker Tom
Foley at least tried to elevate the discussion to an economic
plane in his Tuesday-night TV rebuttal, but only got up to
the kindergarten level. He said the proposed cut would only
accelerate "profit-taking," not investment. It would be
interesting to hear the speaker explain where most investment
originates if not from the profits on previous investments.
   In fact, the high capital-gains tax, by freezing
investments, denies the economy the liquidity it so badly
needs and cannot now acquire from mere Federal Reserve
pump-priming. The reason for cutting this tax is not to "help
the rich," although it might do that, but to restore some
market action in the banking and real-estate sectors, whose
problems have damaged the well-being of all Americans. Most
of the people who would benefit directly from a lower
capital-gains tax are not even wealthy by any stretch of the
imagination.
   The president's proposal to abolish wasteful federal
programs also will go down well with Americans, although one
wonders why he acquiesced in heaping so many new and
unnecessary regulatory burdens on the economy during his
first three years.
   Other efforts, such as speeding up public works and
allowing Americans to reduce tax withholdings, do little to
deal with fundamental problems. The employment effects of
public-works spending are often exaggerated, since most
construction today is heavily mechanized. How much work can
be added is limited also by the contractors and machinery
available. Increasing tax withholdings is a gimmick, not a
genuine tax measure. But at least these things can't do much
harm.
   If the president gets into a real fight with Congress it
might at least divert him from other fights with less
potential for gain, such as his experiment in Japan-bashing.
The larger world would welcome this diversion along with any
signs that the president has economic policies that he
believes in enough to fight for. It is not quite correct to
say that there are no votes to be won by an American
president in Tokyo or London or Frankfurt. There are in fact
quite a few, and they will be delivered to the extent that
Mr. Bush demonstrates with his leadership in the U.S. itself
that he deserves to be the foremost national leader in the
world.