International:
   Panel Recommends
   BIS Act as Watchdog
   To Avoid New BCCIs
In a report on last year's $15 billion collapse of Bank of
Credit  Commerce International, the House of Commons'
Treasury and Civil Service Committee criticized the Bank of
England, Britain's central bank, for its handling of the
affair.
   The report, released yesterday, also commented negatively
on the role of Price Waterhouse, which audited BCCI's
accounts, saying, "The interests of depositors were not well
served by the inadequate disclosures in the BCCI 1989
accounts." The accounting firm's decision not to draw
attention to BCCI's problems when the firm signed off its
1989 audit has been blamed for sending the wrong signal on
the bank's financial health.
   But the main thrust of the committee's conclusions was to
bemoan the lack of international supervision of banks
engaging in business across borders. As a result, the report
said, "International banking fraud is likely to be channeled
through those jurisdictions where supervision over the
financial system is poor or non-existent."
   Though the BIS has no statutory authority over individual
nations' affairs, the committee said, "Regular unbiased
reports from it on supervisory standards would have
considerable international authority, (drawing) regulators'
attention to those jurisdictions whose supervision was found
to be dangerously lax."
   BCCI Holdings Luxembourg S.A., the holding company for the
BCCI group controlled by the ruler of Abu Dhabi, operated
through subsidiaries in Luxembourg and the Cayman Islands.
Its world-wide operations were closed last July 5 in a
concerted swoop by regulators in Britain, the U.S. and
elsewhere, following accusations of widespread fraud.
   A Price Waterhouse official, commenting on the report,
said the firm's handling of BCCI's 1989 accounts responded to
its obligations to BCCI's shareholders, rather than to
depositors, to whom auditors have no specific obligations
under current U.K. banking legislation.