Law -- Legal Beat:
   Princeton/Newport Defendants
   See Case Dropped by Prosecutors
   ----
   By Wade Lambert and Milo Geyelin
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
The appeals court reversal was one of several last year
that were seen by some as a repudiation of former Manhattan
U.S. Attorney Rudolph Giuliani's zealous and flashy
prosecutions of white-collar cases. Defense attorneys claimed
that Mr. Giuliani improperly used the Racketeer Influenced
and Corrupt Organizations law, and the law's threat of stiff
forfeitures, as a club to pressure defendants into
cooperating or settling.
   Although the appeals court decision would have allowed the
government to pursue the RICO charges again, the court
expressed concerns about such an approach in a tax-fraud case
such as that against Princeton/Newport, a defunct securities
firm. The appeals court also indicated that, at a new trial,
the defendants would have to be allowed to show why they
believed that the alleged tax violations at the heart of the
case weren't illegal.
   Mr. Giuliani left office in 1989 to pursue a political
career, and now is in practice as a lawyer in New York. The
current U.S. attorney is Otto Obermaier. Because he was a
criminal defense lawyer before taking office, Mr. Obermaier
has said he would not be directly involved in decisions
involving cases initiated before he arrived.
   In announcing that it is dropping the charges in the
Princeton/Newport case, the U.S. attorney's office said it
didn't believe a retrial would be worth the effort. "The
government has already devoted substantial resources to this
prosecution," the office said. "The government has determined
that its prosecutorial resources should be spent
investigating and prosecuting more recent activity."
   Defense attorneys in the case praised the decision. They
also said the case would have been easier to defend in the
wake of the appeals court ruling.
   The government's decision means that all charges are
dismissed against James Sutton Regan, the managing general
partner of Princeton/Newport; Jack Z. Rabinowitz and Paul A.
Berkman, general partners in the firm; and Steven B.
Smotrich, Princeton/Newport's comptroller. The appeals court
had let stand the securities-fraud convictions of two
defendants in the case, Charles M. Zarzecki, a
Princeton/Newport general partner, and Bruce Lee Newberg, a
former junk-bond trader who worked for Michael Milken at
Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc.
   "Mr. Regan and the others are overjoyed with the decision
to dismiss forever all the charges against them," said
Theodore V. Wells Jr., an attorney for Mr. Regan. He said Mr.
Regan and the three other defendants who were cleared of all
charges are now private investors.
   Messrs. Newberg and Zarzecki were sentenced to three
months in prison but haven't begun serving the terms. They
could seek reduced sentences in light of the government's
decision to drop the case against their co-defendants, who
also had been sentenced to begin serving prison time before
the appeals court reversed their convictions.
   Gerald Lefcourt, an attorney for Mr. Newberg, said that
without the RICO charges, the case brought against the
Princeton/Newport defendants "was a borderline tax case." He
added, "I've always viewed this as a case of Giuliani using
the power of RICO and the power of a federal prosecution to
bend or break" defendants.
   Mr. Giuliani couldn't be reached for comment. He
previously has said that the appeals court reversals were for
reasons beyond his control, such as a judge's handling of a
case or actions by the prosecutor at trial. In
Princeton/Newport, for instance, the appeals court said that
the trial judge should have allowed the defendants to show
that they had made a "good faith effort" to comply with the
tax law.
   ---
   UNION OFFICERS can be sued for violating union's
constitution, court rules.
   The decision by the federal appeals court in Manhattan
toughens the measures union members can take to hold
individual officers responsible for alleged wrongdoing. A
lower court had dismissed the lawsuit, which accused former
Teamsters President William McCarthy of misusing his union
position to suppress dissent and to protect his political
allies.
   The U.S. Supreme Court ruled last month that a union's
constitution is a contract between the members and the union,
but the court didn't address whether individual officers
could be sued for violating the contract. The Second U.S.
Circuit Court of Appeals answered that question in its
decision this week.
   Patrick Szymanski, an attorney in Washington for the
plaintiffs, said the decision is good news for union members,
who "would prefer to go after individuals rather than the
union itself."
   But James Grady, general counsel for the Teamsters, said
the decision "will open up the federal courts to anyone who
is fired by a union to file a claim" that the dismissal was
actually punishment for dissenting against union leadership.
   Last month, the Teamsters elected reform candidate Ron
Carey as president, defeating supporters of Mr. McCarthy, who
didn't seek reelection.
   (Shea vs. McCarthy, Second U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals,
Manhattan)
   ---
   MICHAEL BOUDIN to resign from federal bench in Washington.
   The judge, a former high-ranking official in the Justice
Department's antitrust division and the son of the late
Leonard Boudin, a prominent civil rights lawyer, gave no
reason for his resignation and declined to discuss it. It
becomes effective Jan. 31.
   Judge Boudin, 52 years old, was appointed a federal
district judge in December 1990 and recently was considered a
possible nominee for the federal appeals court seat vacated
when Clarence Thomas joined the U.S. Supreme Court. But
President Bush is reported to have selected another nominee
for that seat.
   Friends of Judge Boudin said the appeals court situation
had no bearing on his decision to step down. "At an early
stage, long before the {appeals court} opening, he was
anguishing over whether the personal costs were too high to
keep this job," said Robert Pitofsky, a law professor at
Georgetown University Law Center and a friend of Judge
Boudin. The judge's wife, Martha Field, and their three
children live in Cambridge, Mass., where Ms. Field teaches at
Harvard Law School.
   ---
   NOTED: Marvin E. Frankel, formerly a federal district
court judge, became a mediator for Lawyers Mediation Service
Corp., which is based in Tucson, Ariz. Mr. Frankel, who will
continue as a partner in the New York law firm Kramer, Levin,
Nessen, Kamin  Frankel, said he has been interested in
mediation for some time. "Some way of mitigating the expense
and burden of our adversarial process would be desirable," he
said.