LEISURE & ARTS -- Bookshelf:
   The Human Side of a Renaissance Humanist
   ----
   By Jim Holt
Surely Leonardo must be nominated the patron saint of
those who find themselves chronically unable to consummate
their most momentous undertakings. "Who will ever tell me if
anything was ever finished?" is a lament frequently
encountered in his writings, and with good cause. Nearly half
of his dozen or so surviving paintings are unfinished,
including the "Mona Lisa" and "The Last Supper." Other noble
works were scarcely begun. He never succeeded in casting the
largest equestrian monument in history, diverting the Arno
River, squaring the circle or building a flying machine. On
the other hand, he did bring off some excellent practical
jokes -- like pumping up the intestines of a bullock so that
they filled an entire room at the Vatican, to the
considerable amusement of Pope Leo X.
   What exactly was the problem? Several plausible answers
suggest themselves. Leonardo was too much of a perfectionist.
His genius was such that he conceived of projects beyond even
his abilities to execute. And he felt the execution itself
was beneath him. "To reflect is noble, to realize is
servile," he wrote, and he went on happily to let assistants
help produce his paintings from cartoons.
   Above all, Leonardo could never really make up his mind
whether he was an artist or a scientist. At first his amateur
scientific inquiries were carried out with a view toward
achieving greater naturalness in his painting and sculpture.
Before long, however, his craving for knowledge of everything
from embryology to ballistics to geology came to displace the
very artistic activity it was meant to serve.
   The notebooks Leonardo began to keep at age 30, numbering
some 13,000 pages (of which about two-thirds are extant),
contain designs for all manner of inventions: a personal
helicopter, a waterdriven alarm clock, a bicycle, a
surprisingly modern toilet, and so on. He dissected upward of
50 human cadavers (mainly criminals but some children),
making anatomical discoveries that went unrivaled for three
centuries and offering the first description of
arteriosclerosis in medical history. He did some of his most
impressive work in hydraulic engineering while he was
painting the "Mona Lisa."
   Freud, predictably, saw something neurotic in this
frenzied dabbling. Although he could not put Leonardo on the
couch, he did offer an extended psychoanalysis based on a
childhood dream the artist reported having, in which a large
bird landed on his cradle and repeatedly struck its tail
against his lips. The upshot was that da Vinci's ceaseless
investigations were fueled by infantile sexual curiosity
arising from his bastard birth. Although this represented the
"highest sublimation attained by man," it also, according to
Freud, had the unfortunate consequence of spilling over into
homosexuality.
   The evidence for Leonardo's sexual inversion is reviewed
with dispassion by Mr. Bramly. It includes a charge brought
against Leonardo at age 24 by a Florentine court (and
subsequently dropped) of having practiced sodomy on a young
male hustler. He also produced homoerotic doodlings that
might have come straight from the bathroom wall of Andy
Warhol's factory. Certainly Leonardo liked to surround
himself with ravishing young men and did not fret for female
company.
   A rather more serious moral failing was da Vinci's service
in 1502 as military engineer to Cesare Borgia, bastard son of
Pope Alexander VI and the most perfidious man in fact or
fiction. Leonardo must have been aware of the atrocities
Borgia was committing in his campaign to subjugate central
Italy. How could he square this with his own maxim to
"respect life absolutely"? Mr. Bramly tries gamely -- but, I
think, unsuccessfully -- to exculpate Leonardo, observing
that at least he withheld from Borgia the innumerable designs
for fantastic engines of destruction preserved in his
notebooks.
   The last two years of da Vinci's life were spent in the
Loire Valley in France, where he acted as a kind of Merlin to
the chivalrous young King Francois I. He had long since
virtually abandoned painting, a loss to posterity one feels
all the more acutely after reading this book. In the end Mr.
Bramly, despite his heroic biographical efforts, cannot help
feeling that this "infinite alchemist of chiaroscuro" remains
as enigmatic as the Mona Lisa's smile.
   ---
   Mr. Holt is the New York columnist for the Literary Review
(London) and a cultural correspondent for the BBC.