REVIEW  OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   Apples Revisited
Apple growers, after taking a big hit, filed a big suit
but otherwise have moved on. The makers of a stigmatized
product such as Alar could never hope to regain a market for
it. So what's the point of Dr. Whelan's efforts? It's to
prove a point, so that next time the response to inconclusive
evidence of toxic risk is not to sweep the supermarket
shelves and pull the fruit from school lunches.
   Dr. Whelan's campaign has taken her to former Surgeon
General C. Everett Koop, who recently stated that Alar "did
not pose a health hazard," and to the American Medical
Association, which basically agreed. With persistence, she
got Richard Adamson, the ranking etiologist at the National
Cancer Institute, to equate the risk from a treated apple to
that from a peanut-butter sandwich.
   Where the effort has gotten nowhere is with CBS News and
the Environmental Protection Agency. The Alar reports on "60
Minutes," the nation's most-watched television show, started
the panic and sealed the fate of the chemical, and the
program's executive producer says it won't revisit the issue
unless the EPA does. The agency, despite its recent
turnaround on another farm additive known as EBDCs, won't
budge from its finding that Alar poses an "unacceptably high"
carcinogenic risk.
   In a letter to Dr. Whelan last week, however, Assistant
Administrator Linda Fisher wrote, "EPA disagreed strongly
with the message and with some of the information
communicated by CBS and NRDC" and, further, seeks to "change
or eliminate the so-called Delaney Clause which bars certain
pesticide tolerances if they are associated with any positive
cancer study . . . without consideration of benefits or
calculation of actual exposure and risk."
   Significant scientific dissents from the Alar-peril theory
had arisen without Dr. Whelan's instigation. The issue is, at
the least, a contentious one in the profession. A few
respected scientists continue to hold to their initial
association with the NRDC's alarm.
   As in all findings based on the observation of laboratory
rats -- and that really is the crux of this dispute, and its
importance for future cases -- the scientist may choose to
deal only in absolutes. It falls to policy makers, aided by
lay specialists such as those in the media, to assess
relative risks and measure them against costs.
   Even without ultimate vindication of Alar, those who
attest to the basic safety of the food supply -- and of
American life in general -- may be turning a corner. The
skepticism toward the apocalyptics that has been evident for
some time in learned publications such as Science and Nature
is finding its way into the mainstream. Even the avowedly
"environmentalist" Time magazine carried an article recently
on "The Danger in Doomsaying." For that matter, "60 Minutes,"
given an open-minded segment producer, can come up with a
challenging piece such as last year's look at acid rain.
   But what about the lawmakers? An agency such as the EPA
responds both to the Congress and to the presidency (as well
as sometimes to the courts). Further progress on that front
depends on those branches being held accountable by a people
who want agencies to focus on true hazards, not costly,
marginal non-problems. Dr. Whelan's crusade may have some
time yet to run.