Ames Files Plan
   To Reorganize,
   Pay Creditors
   ----
   Department Store to Pay
   Creditors $352.5 Million,
   Issue 40 Million Shares
   ----
   By John R. Wilke
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Since April 1990, Ames has closed 311 stores, or nearly
half its outlets, and cut its workforce to 29,500 from
55,000. The plan submitted yesterday says that all of its
remaining 371 stores are expected to be profitable this year
but some may be closed and sold to satisfy creditors.
   Under the plan, senior creditors -- including a 32-bank
group led by Citibank, a unit of Citicorp, -- would recover
an estimated 64% of their due, said Peter Thorner, chief
financial officer. General unsecured creditors, including
landlords, merchandise and service vendors would recover 39%,
while bondholders, who are contractually subordinated to the
senior holders, will get 5%, Mr. Thorner said. Current
shareholders will get nothing.
   "This plan represents a solid foundation from which to
continue negotiations with our creditors," Mr. Thorner said.
   Unsecured creditors reacted favorably to the plan. An
attorney for the group said that pending a detailed review,
the plan "complied with the committee's position on the terms
of a plan."
   But the banks aren't satisfied with the plan, complaining
that it gives too much to the unsecured creditors. An
executive of one of the banks in the lending group, who asked
not to be identified, said flatly that the plan will not go
through as proposed.
   "The banks made what they thought were secured loans and
the plan would treat them in another way," he said. "It's not
our intent to scuttle the plan. We want to come up with a
plan everyone can live with -- and we can't live with this
one."
   The unsecured creditors group, meanwhile, is trying to get
concessions from the banks. The group, which is in litigation
with the banks over the banks' contention that they are fully
secured and entitled to more money, said that for an
out-of-court settlement of these disputes to be reached, "it
is obvious that some concessions will have to be made."
   Existing Ames shares would be canceled under the plan. The
stock plummeted yesterday before being halted at 87.5 cents,
down 62.5 cents in late trading on the New York Stock
Exchange.
   Ames said that under its proposal, the banks would get
$191.6 million in cash and 47.1% of the common stock of the
reorganized Ames. General unsecured creditors will receive
$160.9 million and 45.7% of the new common stock, while
bondholders will receive 7.2% of the new shares and no cash.
   Most of the 311 stores closed by Ames since its Chapter 11
filing have been former Zayres Discount Department Stores
outlets.
   As a result of this aggressive cost-cutting, Ames has said
it expects to report fiscal fourth-quarter earnings of betwen
$2 million and $10 million before taxes, interest and costs
related to the Chapter 11 filing. In the year-earlier
quarter, Ames posted a loss of $26.8 million, or 80 cents a
share, including a $19.5 million charge.
   The reorganization plan is subject to court approval and a
vote by each of the three classes of creditors, Ames
executives said.