Foreign Exchange:
   Dollar Is Mixed as Market Continues
   To Fear Central Banks' Intervention
   ----
   By Charlene Lee
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
In early trading Thursday in Tokyo, the dollar was at
128.05 yen, down a bit from 128.20 yen at Wednesday's Tokyo
close. The U.S. currency was trading at 1.6395 marks, down
from 1.6478 marks Wednesday.
   Traders and economists said a fear of coordinated
central-bank intervention to push down the dollar reined in
the currency as it approached 1.65 marks and 128.50 yen.
Whenever the dollar climbed near those levels yesterday, it
met heavy selling.
   "The market is very nervous," said Ann B. Finaly, a New
York trader for Industrial Bank of Japan Ltd. The fear of
intervention has meant that "the daily traders don't like
going home long {on} dollars," she said. To be long on
dollars means to bet, in effect, that the dollar will rise.
   Reports during Asian trading that the Bank of Japan was
checking rates around 128.20-128.30 yen clipped any dollar
rally and held the U.S. currency to a narrow range of
128.00-128.50 yen in European and North American trading.
   Meanwhile, worries about German inflationary pressures and
fears that Germany's central bank would step in to check a
rapidly appreciating dollar held the U.S. currency to a
well-defined range of 1.64101.6510 marks.
   "It's a psychological barrier more than a technical one,"
said Earl I. Johnson, vice president at Harris Trust 
Savings Bank in Chicago. "The dollar is still well-bid, but
it doesn't seem to have enough upside potential to push it up
over 1.65 marks."
   Participants didn't seem to find any upward momentum
yesterday in U.S. housing starts, consumer price data or
comments by Federal Reserve Board Chairman Alan Greenspan.
   January housing starts posted a stronger-than-expected
gain of 5.5% to an annual rate of 1,167,000, the highest
level since May 1990, according to the Commerce Department.
An average of estimates from analysts surveyed by Dow Jones
Capital Markets Report had called for a 2.4% increase to an
annual rate of 1,130,000 units.
   Meanwhile, the consumer price index registered a
seasonally adjusted gain of 0.1% last month, compared with a
revised increase of 0.2% in December. The rise was slightly
below expectations of a 0.3% increase. December's rise
originally was reported at 0.3%.
   Excluding its volatile food and energy components, the CPI
rose 0.3% in January, in line with analysts' forecasts and up
from a 0.2% rise in December.
   The net effect of the figures on the currency market was
neutral, market watchers said. While the housing starts may
have lent the dollar some support, the CPI indicated the Fed
still has room to cut interest rates without bringing on
inflation, they said.
   In testimony before Congress on the state of the U.S.
economy, Fed Chairman Greenspan gave next to no indication of
whether the Fed was considering further cuts in the current
federal funds target rate of 4% or the 3.5% discount rate.
   But while Mr. Greenspan described the current economic
situation as troubled, he did say the central bank foresees a
moderate recovery this year. In response to questions by Rep.
Charles Schumer (D., N.Y.), Mr. Greenspan said that several
indicators show a "modest quickening" in the economy that
should become evident by the April-June quarter.
   Mr. Greenspan also provided Congress with the Fed's
projection for 1992 growth in real gross domestic product of
between 1.75% and 2.5%. That range is lower than the 2.25% to
3% estimated last July during Mr. Greenspan's testimony to
Congress.
   Dealers said they found no fresh information in Mr.
Greenspan's remarks.
   Although traders expect the dollar to head higher over the
longer term, they don't see it breaking through resistance
levels this week.
   "My feeling is the {dollar's} rally continues, but we need
some fresh factors," said John Lyman, senior customer dealer
for the Bank of Tokyo's New York agency. "What the dollar
needs to break 1.65 marks is some consistency in U.S.
economic data. Right now we're getting a couple of good
numbers and a couple of bad numbers."