Letters to the Editor:
   Unfair Comparisons
   Of Mortality Rates
The fact that Lancaster had 26 more deaths than Harrisburg
out of virtually the same number of patients in this category
could suggest one of several possibilities. The most likely
one is that some of these critically ill patients in
Harrisburg were offered surgery in an effort to prevent an
almost certain mortality without surgical treatment. Such
surgery carries a very much higher risk but even if the risk
is more than 50-50, the fact that some of these critically
ill patients survive justifies the attempt. However, it does
mean that patients who otherwise would appear as medical
deaths now add to the surgical-mortality statistics,
decreasing the mortality rate in the medically treated
patients as far as Harrisburg Hospital is concerned. I prefer
to believe an explanation such as this accounts for the
discrepancy in mortality rates of the two institutions rather
than a difference in the quality of care.
   Therefore, the difference in mortality rate in bypass
surgery at the two institutions is related to case selection
and to the willingness of Harrisburg Hospital to offer
surgery to high-risk patients who might not survive
otherwise.
   Your conclusions are completely unjustified when seen in
the light of total cardiovascular mortality at the two
institutions.
   George R. Moffitt Jr., M.D.
   Chief of Cardiology, Emeritus
   Harrisburg Hospital
   Harrisburg, Pa.
   ---
   You compared the list price or average gross charges for
procedures at Harrisburg Hospital with those at Lancaster
General Hospital. While the two cities are less than 30 miles
apart, the payer mix (Medicare, Blue Cross, Medical
Assistance and others), bad debt and charity care, capital
costs and scope (and therefore expense) of graduate medical
education are unique to the respective institutions;
differences that significantly affect gross charges.
   In 1989, Harrisburg Hospital's discounts to Medicare,
Medical Assistance and commercial insurance, as well as
write-offs for uninsured patients, were 34.1% of charges,
compared with Lancaster General Hospital's discounts of
13.8%. This information is readily available from the
Medicare cost reports. To quote a source who says "the link
between the list price and what insurers pay is close enough
for comparisons" is misleading.
   It is exactly because of the discount differences that we
pointed out to you that the use of average gross charges in
Lancaster and Harrisburg is an improper tool for those making
purchase decisions or comparing hospital performance/costs.
Payments actually received by the hospitals are the only
valid measures of true costs to payers.
   John S. Cramer
   President and CEO
   Harrisburg Hospital
   Harrisburg, Pa.