OSHA's Scannell Is Leaving a Legacy
   Long on Enforcement, Short on Enmity
   ----
   By Albert R. Karr
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
"All of a sudden, it looked like we were sailing into the
Spanish Armada coming our way," recalls Charles Hurley, a
former National Safety Council official and a member of the
Scannell crew. By the time the crew turned the craft around,
Mr. Scannell was way behind, and he finished dead last.
   That was one of the few times that Mr. Scannell, who
leaves the Labor Department's Occupational Safety and Health
Administration today to return to Johnson  Johnson, has been
unable to skillfully navigate either sailing waters or the
political rocks and shoals of Washington. As head of OSHA, he
has stepped up enforcement, levying much stiffer fines;
revived lagging rule-making efforts; and launched brand new
ones. All the while, he has remarkably avoided the enmity of
various interests that had seemed to be an inevitable hazard
of his high-profile regulatory job.
   By showing concern for the views of employers, unions and
others, Mr. Scannell won plaudits from some who often had
harshly criticized OSHA. One of those, Rep. Tom Lantos (D.,
Calif.), chairman of a House Employment and Housing
subcommittee, calls Mr. Scannell "a breath of fresh air."
   Now, his efforts will leave a more aggressive agency that
his successor will be hard-pressed to rein in -- if the new
OSHA chief, when chosen, wants to try. Dorothy Strunk, a
Scannell deputy who was a longtime Republican staffer for the
House Labor Committee, is the acting OSHA head and is
considered a possible nominee to succeed him.
   Mr. Scannell himself says trying to pull back from his
program "would be difficult." He says that "a lot of things
have been set in motion" and that it would be "transparent"
for anyone to try to reverse them.
   Fines, for instance, have climbed in recent years to as
high as $10 million, aided most recently by an increased
schedule of fines mandated by Congress. Patrick Tyson, an
Atlanta attorney and former OSHA official in the Reagan
administration, says the increased fines and other
enforcement escalation seem immune to any scaling back. So,
too, are Scannell moves to upgrade rules for industries such
as chemical processing; he made a commitment to Rep. John
Dingell (D., Mich.) to deliver new rules by next month.
   Such initiatives as proposed rules for safer use of motor
vehicles on the job could be vulnerable to Bush
administration deregulation concerns, however, if a new OSHA
head doesn't want "to push to make something happen," Mr.
Tyson says.
   But Mr. Hurley, a Scannell friend for years, contends: "It
would be very difficult {to pull back}, because the public
support for what he's doing is overwhelming. He proved you
can be pro-management, pro-labor and pro-health and safety at
the same time."
   Showing personal concern for workers' safety and for
families of work-site accident victims, Mr. Scannell has won
praise from even skeptical union officials.
   Deborah Berkowitz, health and safety director for the
United Food and Commercial Workers union, faults OSHA for
what she says is its proposal to exempt big meatpacking
plants from regular inspections aimed at exposing disorders
caused by repetitive hand and wrist motions. She calls the
proposed exemption a "carrot" for the plants voluntarily to
make those operations healthier. But she says Mr. Scannell
injected "a great deal of professionalism" at the agency and
was "the best that you could hope for in this
administration."
   Joseph Kinney, head of the Chicagobased National Safe
Workplace Institute, who initially deplored Mr. Scannell's
1989 selection, says, "I wouldn't mind if he stayed for a
hundred years." Mr. Scannell, he says, "more than any other
presidential appointee I've seen in 20 years, has served a
national constituency."
   Harold Coxson, a management-oriented labor lawyer, says
that despite being tough on employers, Mr. Scannell has been
"practical, not ideological," adding: "He tells business
people he doesn't like stiff fines, but they're a necessary
regulatory tool for balky employers when violations are
egregious."