Two Companies
   Are Forging Bid
   For LTV Unit
   ---
   Marietta and Lockheed Seek
   To Run Aerospace Lines
   As a 50-50 Partnership
   ----
   By Rick Wartzman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
A spokesman for Martin Marietta, Bethesda, Md., declined
to comment on the prospective purchase, which has been
rumored in the aerospace community for weeks. In Calabasas,
Calif., a Lockheed spokeswoman also wouldn't comment.
   LTV's aerospace and defense unit, which has annual sales
of more than $2 billion, has been on the block since last
May. A spokesman for the Dallas company, which is operating
under bankruptcy-court protection, said bids were received in
November and LTV continues to review offers from various
potential buyers.
   Indeed, insiders cautioned that other attractive offers
besides that from Martin Marietta and Lockheed are still on
the table. They apparently include one from Boeing Co. and
another from French electronics giant Thomson S.A. A Thomson
bid could be complicated, however, because of national
security issues, one industry executive suggested. Loral
Corp. also is said to have made an offer to LTV, but only for
the company's missile lines.
   Officials from Thomson, Boeing and Loral either declined
to comment or couldn't be reached.
   LTV would clearly prefer to unload both its missile and
aircraft businesses all at once, if possible. That's one
factor that apparently makes the Martin Marietta-Lockheed
proposal particularly enticing. One executive said the
discussions were far enough along that Martin Marietta
managers hoped to make a presentation on the acquisition at
the company's next board meeting, which is set for Jan. 23.
Lockheed's next scheduled board meeting is Feb 3.
   One issue complicating things is LTV's bankruptcy. When
the aerospace and defense unit was put up for sale, some
creditors groused that it shouldn't be unloaded because it's
potentially lucrative. In addition, because any sale would
have to be approved by the bankruptcy court, it's always
possible that last-minute offers will emerge to top a Martin
Marietta-Lockheed bid. Just last month, LTV's three largest
creditor groups persuaded the court to consider a second
offer for the company's AM General Corp. subsidiary.
   Besides that, any acquisition would conceivably have to
pass federal antitrust review.
   If LTV is able to shed the unit, it would mark one of the
first major steps in the compression of the defense industry,
which many believe is poised for a shakeout. When LTV's unit
was first put up for sale last year, Lockheed Chairman Daniel
Tellep generally questioned the wisdom of mergers. "The
problem is you take two companies with overcapacity and all
you have is more overcapacity," he said.
   But upon closer inspection, Mr. Tellep seems to have found
LTV's operations promising. The unit, which posted operating
profit of $101.7 million through the first nine months of
1991, builds large parts of the B-2 Stealth bomber and C-17
cargo plane. It also manufactures the Multi-Launch Rocket
System, a range of missiles and pieces for the Strategic
Defense Initiative. Perhaps most significant, given the
shrinking Pentagon budget, is that the unit also has a strong
commercial sector, building the tail sections for Boeing
jetliners.
   Wall Street analysts have pointed out that both Lockheed
and Martin Marietta will generate plenty of excess cash over
the next five years. Executives also pointed out that Mr.
Tellep is good friends with Norman Augustine, Martin
Marietta's chairman.
   Separately, Martin Marietta shares climbed $1.50 yesterday
in New York Stock Exchange composite trading, to close at
$53.375, after the company was awarded a $269 million
production contract and option to supply Vertical Launching
Systems to the U.S. Navy and for a foreign military sale to
Japan. The pact calls for production of the missile-firing
equipment to begin immediately with deliveries through 1996.
   Lockheed shares finished unchanged on the Big Board at
$43.875.