Olympia  York Withdraws Its Plan
   For $370 Million Financing in London
   ----
   By Neil Barsky
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
While not a major blow, the withdrawal of the plan leaves
OY with one more obstacle in removing growing doubts about
its financial condition. Over the past month, concern over
the company's stability has caused liquidity problems in the
market in OY commercial paper, forcing the company to
withdraw from the short-term debt market. It is unclear how
the withdrawal of the Canary Wharf refinancing will affect
the company's plans, announced Wednesday, to pay off about
$335 million in OY commercial paper outstanding.
   OY's most serious predicament appears to be in London,
where the company's 71-acre, multibillion-dollar project has
been taking cash from the company's North American
properties. OY, which is owned by the Reichmann brothers of
Toronto, has already spent more than $3 billion of its own
funds on the project. So far, the out-of-the-way complex has
failed to lure major British companies, many of whom are
reluctant to relocate in the face of a recession.
   Despite growing skepticism, Paul Reichmann, the company's
chief strategist, has never appeared to waver from his
conviction Canary Wharf will eventually become the
pre-eminent office center in Western Europe.
   The company had planned to sell to British investors
shares in what is known as an enterprise zone trust. The
proposal, which has been executed on a smaller scale
elsewhere in Britain, would have allowed OY to borrow at
below-market rates. Investors would have benefited because
they wouldn't have been taxed on their income from the trust.
   Since the plan, called the Cabot Square Trust, was
unveiled last month, many British press reports have been
skeptical, saying the 30%-leased building that secured the
trust wouldn't generate the cash flow necessary to make
interest payments. The payments were also guaranteed by OY's
British holding company.
   The enterprise zone trust sale would have eased somewhat
OY's need for cash. OY officials blamed the current
election campaign for Parliament's failure to include
provisions in the Finance Act that would have made the
transaction possible. One person close to OY said it was
difficult to gauge investor appetite for the trust because
most sales usually take place at the end of March, just
before the April 1 tax-filing deadline.
   "Naturally we are very disappointed that the Cabot Square
Trust cannot proceed at this time particularly given the
strong interest in the trust," said Robert Li John, Olympia 
York Canary Wharf Ltd. director. "It is a victim of the need
to shorten the 1992 Finance Act in order to get on with the
general election campaign."
   An OY spokesman in New York said the company would
finance the building through another form of mortgage
financing, on which he didn't elaborate.
   OY must still raise about $250 million to buy a Canary
Wharf building from Morgan Stanley  Co., which occupies the
building. The two sides have been locked in a dispute over
how much time OY has to raise the cash.