REVIEW  OUTLOOK (Editorial):
   Tsongas's Money Ceiling
When Mr. Tsongas first announced a year ago, he was given
zero chance of ever climbing above single digits in any
primary. His campaign was $175,000 in debt when it finally
caught on in early January, even after Mr. Tsongas himself
had chipped in $50,000 of his own money, the maximum allowed
by law. The campaign was limited to accepting a maximum of
$1,000 from any individual, and despite a brutal fund-raising
pace it couldn't find enough such donors to compete with Bill
Clinton's well-oiled money machine. It's true that Pat
Buchanan has done well raising money from small donors, but
he began with 70% name recognition from his constant TV
appearances.
   Former Senator Eugene McCarthy says Mr. Tsongas might have
become financially viable if he could have accepted larger
donations from individuals attracted to his message. His own
1968 campaign, which forced Lyndon Johnson out of office, was
kept alive by a "few idealists of means who wrote checks when
they were most needed." Mr. McCarthy says an insurgent such
as Mr. Tsongas "can't fairly compete" under a $1,000
contribution limit. Since the limit hasn't been indexed for
inflation since its adoption in 1975, it's worth the
equivalent of $350 today.
   Peggy Connolly, Mr. Tsongas's press director, says she has
changed her mind on contribution limits since her days at the
House and Senate Democratic campaign committees. She still
favors full disclosure of all contributions, but thinks
$1,000 limits are counterproductive. "The only way a
candidate can raise big money now is to run around the
country temporarily convincing everyone you speak with that
you're on their side," she told us. "Then you disappoint many
of them after the election."
   Ms. Connally says campaign finance reform has only "meant
a delay in the time it takes people to figure out loopholes
in the system." Close loopholes in one place, and they open
somewhere else.
   Take Lenora Fulani, the candidate of the bizarre New
Alliance Party. Ms. Fulani has used the party's cultlike
followers to take advantage of the law that requires the
federal government to match contributions of up to $250. By
early April, Ms. Fulani will have milked this provision for
over $1 million in taxpayer money. Her electoral appeal is
nil; running as a Democrat in the New Hampshire primary she
won 402 votes.
   The public-financing scheme now in place most benefits
fringe candidates such as Ms. Fulani or David Duke and those
with a Rolodex full of special-interest contacts. Innovative
candidates are largely denied the seed money they need to
compete. Far from talking about extending public financing to
congressional races, we need to reconsider how the current
laws reduce competition in presidential campaigns.