Will No One Defend Defense?
   ----
   By Seymour Weiss
The president's State of the Union messages proposes a $50
billion reduction in the defense budget over the next five
years -- a 25% reduction in the armed forces' size (people,
divisions, aircraft carriers, etc.). That neo-strategist,
Sen. George Mitchell (D., Maine), is prepared to see the
president and raise him $50 billion. Sen. Edward Kennedy (D.,
Mass.), a consistent critic of the defense budget (except
where it would involve closure of Massachusetts defense
industries), proposes a $210 billion cut over seven years.
   As this is an election year, some tolerance is perhaps in
order. But this much? What is the justification for such
massive cuts? The Soviet threat has greatly diminished, but
has it disappeared?
   All the talk in Washington these days is about the benign
democracies that have suddenly emerged out of the former
Soviet totalitarian state. But there remains a heritage of
some 70 years of deep animosity; every Soviet schoolchild was
told that the U.S. was its enemy. How soon can that heritage
be turned into attachment to peaceful and democratic values?
   It is worth recalling that long before there was a Soviet
Union there was a powerful Russian imperial state that
brooked no democratic nonsense and that repeatedly invaded
its neighbors. This has not been a region of the world
crowned with tranquillity or devoted to democracy.
   Perhaps we no longer will need to concern ourselves with
violence by and among the former Soviet republics. But
history offers no comfort in this regard. And even Boris
Yeltsin reminds us just how unstable Russia is by warning
that he could be replaced by a totalitarian government.
   Still, neither the Bush administration nor Congress seems
much concerned with this turbulent history or the unstable
present that the Commonwealth of Independent States presents.
At least the administration is clear concerning the more
immediate threat that it perceives to U.S. interests. It is
the regional threat, epitomized by the recent war against
Iraq. In this the administration is surely correct.
   Iran, Syria, Libya and even Iraq itself remain current and
future threats. The proliferation of weapons of mass
destruction is no fiction. Several states, not only in that
region but in Northern Asia (North Korea), on the Indian
sub-continent (India and Pakistan), and in North Africa,
South Africa and parts of Latin America are already engaged
in efforts at nuclear weapons production as well as
production of chemical and biological weapons and the means
of their long-range delivery by ballistic missiles (abetted
by such states as China).
   This is not a picture of a tranquil world, even if the
former Soviet republics pose no threat at all. Another
precipitous dismantling of the U.S. defense establishment
will in all probability give a future power-hungry dictator
the incentive to build the forces that can challenge U.S.
interests and world stability.
   There appears to be a consensus that some reductions are
warranted, especially in modern long-range nuclear delivery
systems. But the administration already plans to go well
beyond this. Secretary Dick Cheney's Oct. 31 proposals
envisaged an elimination of one-third of all U.S. Army
divisions, reduction in tactical fighter wings from 36 to 26,
and elimination of 100 ships and three aircraft carriers.
   It appears that the administration would attempt to
maintain the technological superiority so superbly displayed
in the war against Iraq by emphasizing research and
development and then placing the results of that RD on the
shelf to be produced if required in time of need. How
practical an approach is this?
   A recent Johns Hopkins University School of Advanced
International Studies monograph notes that it is a myth to
believe that "we can maintain a viable defense industrial
base by funding RD but not production. . . . Defense
capability requires production technology and experienced
technicians." It may take years to move from development to
mass production.
   Were the U.S. to encounter another Iraq, would the
conventional forces provided for in administration financing
(not to mention the lesser levels implicit in the Mitchell
and Kennedy approaches) permit the quick, relatively
bloodless victory of Desert Storm? Even with the Reagan
buildup, had Saddam not provided months of valuable time for
the U.S. to raise and deploy forces, Desert Storm might well
have had a less satisfactory ending. Will the next adversary
offer a similar warning?
   And even if all the assumptions made in the
administration's plans were shown to represent a prudent risk
(no military plan can hope to provide for more), will the
special interests permit a sensible implementation? The
chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff rightly complains of
having to listen to congressional support for lower defense
budgets so long as there are no cuts in the military base in
the particular congressman's district, or the military
production facility in his state, or the local National Guard
and reserve units. Is it possible to have 535 secretaries of
defense and chairmen of the Joint Chiefs of Staff and still
have a rational defense?
   Even the most uninformed understand that this is an
election year in a nation plagued by a host of domestic
problems that may consume an increasing share of government
funding. Still, is it reasonable to load that entire burden
on the back of the defense budget? That seems to be happening
without a voice being raised in honest questioning.
   ---
   Mr. Weiss, a retired ambassador, directed the State
Department's Bureau of Politico-Military Affairs in 1973.
   (See related letter: "Letters to the Editor: "Now Read
This" -- WSJ March 9, 1992)
   920218-0018