Volvo Agrees
   To Be Acquired
   By Procordia
   ---
   Swedish Car Maker's Deal
   With Affiliate May Spur
   Government Opposition
   ----
   By Stephen D. Moore
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
If successful, the Volvo-Procordia merger would delay the
Swedish government's ballyhooed privatization program by up
to a year. The government was to have disclosed its first
sale of state assets this week -- and most analysts expected
the state's Procordia holding, valued at about 18 billion
kronor, to be first on the block.
   Moreover, a blue-ribbon privatization panel advising Mr.
Westerberg spurned terms of an initial Volvo-Procordia merger
plan submitted by Mr. Gyllenhammar early last week. The same
privatization panel will review the latest offer -- amid
clear signals of continued skepticism from the industry
minister over the weekend.
   The hasty deal underscores the accelerating consolidation
of Scandinavian companies as their cozy home markets are
opened to increased competition from European rivals. Volvo,
under Mr. Gyllenhammar, pioneered a wave of strategic
alliances designed to keep foreign predators at bay --
joining forces with French auto maker Renault S.A. as well as
pooling former pharmaceutical and food operations with
Procordia in a quest for greater bulk.
   But Mr. Gyllenhammar worried that the government's plan to
sell its 42.7% voting stake in Procordia increased the risk
of a hostile takeover of Volvo.
   Volvo and the Swedish state have been dominant co-owners
of Procordia with roughly 42% voting stakes since 1989. The
privatization program, announced last year, forced Volvo's
hand. "It triggered this whole situation," said Volvo Chief
Executive Christer Zetterberg. "We had to either go up in
ownership or accept that a large part of Procordia might be
put up for grabs -- making for an uncertain future." But
without the funds to buy giant Procordia, Volvo had to
arrange the reverse merger -- Procordia's purchase of Volvo.
   The combined Volvo-Procordia would boast annual sales of
115 billion kronor and total assets of 130 billion kronor.
Stable earnings from Procordia's food and pharmaceuticals
operations would smoothe volatile cyclical swings typical of
Volvo's core auto operations, company executives said.
Procordia's cash and earnings flow loom as a crucial boost as
Volvo's ailing car division struggles to recover from deep
losses in the next few years.
   Still Mr. Gyllenhammar has said that sheer size -- not
industrial synergies -- was the driving force behind the
proposed marriage. "This will create an internationally
strong company that can survive in the longer term," Mr.
Gyllenhammer declared. "Everything has a price -- but sheer
size will put a price tag on the new Volvo high enough to
scare away prospective predators."
   The latest move, said Mr. Zetterberg, demonstrates even
more clearly the competitive pressures on companies in the
emerging Europe. "Like it or not, you have to be very big to
survive today," Mr. Zetterberg mused.
   Volvo posted a modest pretax profit of 255 million kronor
in the third quarter, as the auto maker's share of profit at
associated companies helped compensate for its own fifth
consecutive quarterly operating loss. In the year-earlier
period, the company has a pretax loss of 2.23 billion kronor,
reflecting a 2.45 billion kronor restructuring charge.
   Volvo said its struggling car division, suffering from
weak sales and tight profit margins, plunged to an operating
loss of 1.5 billion Swedish kronor for the first three
quarters of 1991, nearly double the division's operating loss
for all of last year. The truck unit's operating profit fell.
But income from associated companies during the third quarter
jumped 59% to 629 million kronor, nearly offsetting Volvo's
operating loss for the period. Procordia and Renault were
responsible for most of the increase.
   Under the offer, Procordia proposes to swap nine of its
own shares for every four Volvo shares currently held. The
bid represents a premium of 22% over the most recent closing
price for Volvo stock, the company said.
   In national over-the-counter trading on Friday, Volvo
American Depositary Receipts closed at $68, up 50 cents.
   The offer will be conditional on acceptance by
shareholders representing at least 90% of Volvo's voting
stock -- although Procordia reserves the right to complete
the offer even if fewer acceptances are received. The offer
also requires approval by Procordia shareholders, as well as
certain governmental approvals.
   The companies said an offering prospectus will be issued
by April 20 in Europe, but at the later date of May 4 in the
U.S. According to the preliminary timetable, the offer would
close June 1.
   Following the successful completion of the offer,
Procordia would change its name to Volvo. Mr. Gyllenhammar
would become chairman of the new company. Procordia's Chief
Executive Soeren Gyll would assume the same post in the
merged company -- with Volvo's current chief executive, Mr.
Zetterberg, as his deputy.
   Volvo obtained its Procordia holding in 1989 as payment
for food and pharmaceuticals operations pooled with
Procordia's own under a package of transactions valued at
23.8 billion kronor. A separate shareholders' pact guaranteed
Volvo the right of first refusal if the government ever
decided to sell its Procordia shares.
   To succeed, the proposed Volvo-Procordia merger requires
major concessions likely to cost taxpayers billions of kronor
in lost privatization revenues, angry government officials
say.
   Mr. Westerberg, Sweden's industry minister, has declined
to comment about the panel's coming review of the formal
merger offer. But Per Tegner, an Industry Ministry official
and Procordia director, openly dissented from the board's
approval of the merger plan -- hinting at the skeptical
attitude widespread within government corridors.
   "Giant conglomerates aren't popular with investors and I'm
afraid the value of Procordia's shares will drop -- and the
state will lose as a result -- if it accepts the offer," Mr.
Tegner said in an interview.
   To reduce the state's voting stake in the new combined
company to roughly 25% from a potential 44%, the government
will be asked to accept new Procordia shares carrying low
voting rights -- in exchange for the high-voting-right Volvo
shares it currently holds.
   Raymond Levy, Renault's chief executive and a Volvo
director, voted in favor of the merger at Friday's board
meeting.