Marketing  Media:
   Orion Board Clears
   Sweetened Offer
   For Film Company
   ----
   By Kevin Goldman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
In fact, the 13-member board, which met for over four
hours here yesterday, also discussed another company that is
interested in acquiring Orion, according to one person close
to the board who didn't want to be identified. "There were
indications from another company, but there was no formal
offer whatsoever," this person said. The individual said the
company wasn't Turner Broadcasting System Inc., an
oft-mentioned candidate to take control of Orion.
   Although the individual declined to identify the
interested company, the Hollywood rumor mill was grinding out
the name of Time Warner Inc. A Time Warner spokesman last
night declined comment.
   Yesterday, the Orion board also approved a move to give
New Line up to $500,000 in expenses and a $1.5 million
termination fee if Orion should ultimately decide to abandon
the New Line proposal and go with another suitor.
   "This is the most important step for us," Michael Lynne,
New Line's president and chief operating officer, said in an
interview last night. "We continue to be very optimistic that
we will be able to successfully conclude this process."
   The revised plan contains more favorable terms for Orion's
bondholders than when New Line, an independent film company,
first approached Orion in December.
   The new plan places control of Orion in the hands of New
Line and Orion's major shareholder, closely held Metromedia.
The Orion bondholders, under the revised plan, would receive
45% of the reorganized Orion; under the old plan, the
bondholders would have held 41.5%. The new plan is worth
about $40 million to the bondholders, said Wilbur Ross,
senior managing director of Rothschild Inc., a New York firm
representing the bondholders which hold $285 million in
subordinated debt in Orion.
   "This plan is good for the bondholders and we like it,"
Mr. Ross said.
   Under the new proposal, New Line, which produced the hit
"Nightmare on Elm Street" series, would manage Orion's
operations and provide distribution services to Orion, which
is planning this year to release films by Woody Allen, among
others. New Line would receive a production fee, included in
the budget of Orion-produced feature films, of 5% of the
movies' budgets. And New Line, based in New York, would
receive about 46% of reorganized stock of Orion, which is
based in both New York and Los Angeles.
   The balance of the stock goes to Metromedia, which is
owned by John W. Kluge, and the equity owners. The
bondholders would also receive $60 million in notes issued by
Orion and not $30 million as was originally outlined. The
interest payments are increased to 11% from 10%.