Rhone-Poulenc Defers Expansion Dream
   ---
   French Firm's Chief Stresses
   Asset Sales, Cost Cuts
   ----
   By Audrey Choi
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Mr. Fourtou has declared a moratorium on further
acquisitions and has dedicated the next three years to
internal streamlining, cost-cutting and selling a further
three billion francs of assets.
   By 1994 at the latest, he wants to sell 10 to 15 more
subsidiaries and to reduce the company's debt-to-equity ratio
to 50% from its current 78%. Last year the company
provisioned 485 million francs on restructuring costs alone.
   But this quieter phase of what Mr. Fourtou has called the
"internal conquest" after the voracious purchasing binge
won't last too long.
   "After reaching our economic goal by 1994, we will go
forward with another effort of expansion," he said. With
currently only 7.3% of net sales coming from Asia, "it is
clear that Asia remains the zone where we are insufficiently
represented, and I am persuaded that we can only realize our
ambitions there through acquisitions," he said.
   Eventually, the company's ambition is "to be active as an
industrial presence in all countries of the world." While the
company can't be distracted from its internal restructurings
over the next few years, Mr. Fourtou intends to keep an
active eye and presence in the region, to be well-positioned
for Asian acquisitions in the second half of the 1990s.
   And once the company's debt burden is lightened, action
from Mr. Fourtou could come quickly. When he first came to
Rhone-Poulenc in 1986, it took him only three weeks to decide
on the strategy of internationalizing and refocusing the
company, he said.
   "Certainly one always makes mistakes, and if you are very
active, you make many mistakes," he said. "But I think that
in proportion, we have been very lucky. . . . And
fortunately, I never spend a lot of time looking backward,"
Mr. Fourtou added.
   In the meantime, however, analysts and stockholders seemed
to breathe an audible sigh of relief at the company's
commitment to bring down debt and plow ahead with
divestments.
   The company's decisions to buy into the U.S. market and to
shift emphasis toward pharmaceuticals and away from more
cyclical sectors constituted "the most radical transformation
of any company in the sector," noted Jackie Ashurst, a
European chemical analyst at James Capel  Co. in London.
   The jewel in the acquisitions was the investment of around
$2 billion for a 68% stake in the U.S. pharmaceuticals group
Rorer, which was the basis for founding Rhone-Poulenc Rorer
in 1990.
   Although the costs of the merger sent the company's
debt-to-equity ratio soaring toward 100%, the move has proven
particularly profitable.
   Rhone-Poulenc Rorer is predicted by its parent to grow at
around 30% a year for the next few years. Already in 1991,
the U.S. unit made a substantial contribution to the parent,
keeping it profitable despite a 700 billion-franc decline in
operating income in the organic and inorganic intermediates
sector and virtually flat operating income in the other
sectors.
   Last Wednesday, Rhone-Poulenc said its group profit rose
3.2% and that operating income rose 38% in 1991. The company
also predicted 20% growth in each of the next two years.
Analysts said that with the U.S. unit roaring ahead, the
cyclical sectors unable to get much worse, and an eventual
U.S. recovery somewhere in the pipeline, the earnings outlook
is strong.
   "It's the kind of transformation ICI (Imperial Chemical
Industries PLC of the U.K.) would have loved to make," but a
private company couldn't have risked incurring that much debt
without laying itself open to a hostile takeover, said Martin
Glen, an analyst at Shearson Lehman Brothers in London.
   It was almost as if Mr. Fourtou made a model of the ideal
chemicals company and went on a spending spree to fill the
recipe, said a U.K. chemicals analyst.
   Mr. Fourtou acknowledged that he was able to take
advantage of Rhone-Poulenc's protected status as a
state-controlled company in pursuing his aggressive
industrial policy.
   "When you are the chairman of a company, first of all you
have to be pragmatic. That means taking advantage of the
opportunities and managing the difficulties," said the
chairman. If being state-controlled has other disadvantages,
one might as well take advantage of the stability of it, he
added.
   On Wednesday, Mr. Fourtou said that given the shifts in
the political climate, it was probable that more shares could
come into public hands within the next three years.
   The government policy of neither further privatization nor
further nationalization is weakening, and it's likely that
whichever party comes into power in this spring's elections
will bring some degree of privatization in many French
stateowned companies, he said.
   There are however, no concrete plans for a capital
increase or share issuance, the company said, adding that Mr.
Fourtou's comments were meant to refer generally to French
political views on nationalized companies and not
specifically to plans for Rhone-Poulenc. Currently the French
state holds 56.9% of the company's capital, and 20.6% is
publicly held in the form of nonvoting shares.