What's News --
   World-Wide
Televangelist Pat Robertson urged his Georgia followers to
vote for Bush because he has given conservatives "control of
the Supreme Court."
   ---
   Saudi Arabia's King Fahd took a tentative first step
toward sharing power by announcing the long-promised creation
of a 61-member advisory council. A royal decree indicated the
council appointees won't have any power, but would present
their views and proposals to the king. Fahd also outlined a
constitution based on Islamic law.
   ---
   Sen. Brock Adams abandoned his re-election campaign in the
state of Washington after the Seattle Times published a
report with claims from eight unidentified women that he
sexually abused and harassed them. Adams, a Democrat, was
President Carter's transportation secretary.
   ---
   Boston researchers reported the discovery of chemical
deficiencies in the brains of people who died of Alzheimer's
disease, suggesting new treatments for the disorder.
Currently there is no effective treatment for Alzheimer's,
which afflicts four million Americans.
   ---
   The Irish Republican Army said it planned further violence
to disrupt this year's British election. The IRA, fighting to
oust Britain from Northern Ireland, confirmed that it planted
three bombs in London over the past few days. Two exploded
Friday and Saturday, injuring 29 people; a third was defused
yesterday.
   ---
   Palestinians have rejected an Israeli plan for limited
self-rule, saying that it wasn't an official government
proposal, according to Reuters news agency. In a three-page
document, the Palestinians reportedly informed the head of
the Israeli team to Mideast peace talks in Washington that
the offer "expresses your personal viewpoint only."
                                                                                                       

   Arab and Israeli relief workers pulled the last of 23
bodies from a cafe that collapsed Saturday in Arab east
Jerusalem. Twentytwo other Palestinians were injured in the
collapse, which occurred when a rain-saturated cemetery slid
onto the roof of the cafe. The accident was called the city's
worst building disaster in modern times.
   ---
   About 1,000 protesters gathered at Moscow's television
center, chanting anti-Semitic slogans and demanding the
establishment of all-Russian ethnic programming. Separately,
Russia's finance minister said he expects the ruble to
stabilize soon at a rate of 50 to the dollar for tourists and
businesses.
   ---
   A U.S. commander said his 25-ship Navy fleet in the
Persian Gulf is ready to respond if any action is ordered to
enforce U.N. demands that Iraq destroy its weapons. Over the
weekend, tensions escalated between the U.N. and Iraq, which
refused to allow specialists to destroy equipment used to
make missiles.
   ---
   Dozens of military vehicles headed toward
Nagorno-Karabakh, apparently to organize the withdrawal of
former Soviet troops from the disputed enclave after a week
of intense fighting between Armenia and Azerbaijan. The
commander of the exSoviet forces ordered the pullout after
the soldiers came under heavy attack.
   ---
   Canada's political parties approved a plan Friday to
rewrite the nation's constitution to deal with the
longstanding political demands of Quebec and other provinces.
Quebec's Premier Bourassa is expected to issue comments on
the proposal tomorrow.
   ---
   Citizens of Bosnia-Hercegovina voted for independence, the
Yugoslav republic's foreign minister said, citing unofficial
results from a weekend referendum. Meanwhile, voters in the
republic of Montenegro cast ballots on whether to remain in
Yugoslavia with Serbia, the largest republic.
   ---
   Security forces in Zaire hurled tear gas and fired into
the air to disperse pro-democracy protests throughout the
capital, Kinshasa, and the government said unidentified
attackers killed a young policeman.
   ---
   A reactor was shut down at Bulgaria's troubled Kozlodui
nuclear plant because of a fire in the plant's electric
system, state radio said. The unit had been reactivated only
last Monday after being closed in early February because of a
safety system failure. Officials said the new malfunction
posed no danger of radiation leakage.