Winter Olympics 1992:
   Without the Snows of Yesteryear,
   Ski Makers Have a New Concept: Golf
   ----
   By E.S. Browning
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Ski buffs do flips over this kind of advanced technology.
And Salomon, the world's largest maker of ski equipment,
considers itself on the cutting edge of innovation.
   The question is, which product will produce the most
growth?
   No question about it. "Golf clubs," says Mr. Vial.
   Poor snow and aging consumers pushed big ski-equipment
makers like Salomon and archrival Rossignol S.A. deeply into
the red at the end of the 1980s. After painful layoffs and
reorganization, the strongest ski companies are only now
beginning to emerge from those losses. Neither Rossignol nor
Salomon expects an operating profit before next year.
Rossignol's chairman, Laurent Boix-Vives, said he expected a
profit of at least 50 million French francs ($9.2 million)
for fiscal 1993.
   As a result, their fancy, computer-aided design studios
offer some strange sights. Salomon has its designers creating
computer simulations of drivers, putters, even golf bags for
the company's Taylor Made golf label, which is based in the
U.S. Salomon also has just introduced a line of hiking shoes
incorporating ski-boot technology.
   Rossignol, the world's biggest maker of skis, bought the
small Roger Cleveland Golf Co. just over a year ago. Already
a major maker of tennis rackets, now it is trying to develop
golf clubs and its own tennis shoe line. Both Rossignol and
Salomon are studying other new businesses as well, such as
bicycling.
   "We are looking at sports linked to older people, the
environment, health," says Mr. Vial. "Sports you can do with
the family, so-called soft sports where you don't run much
risk of injury."
   But Salomon still depends on skiing for nearly 70% of
sales, and Rossignol for 90%. It's a worrisome situation.
   "After a while, you have to wonder whether people aren't
losing their interest in skiing," grumbles Jean-Jacques
Bompard, Rossignol's secretary general.
   Based on detailed population and market studies, Salomon
figures two things influence ski purchases in advanced
countries: snow and age. Most skiers are 15 to 35 years old,
and tend to buy equipment when snow is plentiful.
Unpredictable weather makes the ski business nerve-racking,
but snow conditions do even out over the years. Age groups
don't: Populations in advanced countries are getting older.
While that may be good for golf, Salomon thinks the age
factor now will push ski-equipment sales steadily down in
every major market except Japan, where the market may be
temporarily aided by a new trend toward family ski holidays.
   Rossignol is betting on a technological leap. The company
has decided it can profit even if it continues to get most of
its revenue from skiing, as long as it dominates its markets.
Rossignol is spending 200 million francs to build what Chief
Executive Jean-Marc Forneri calls "the most modern and the
most productive ski factory in the world." Highly automated,
it will produce injection-molded skis to compete with rival
models like Salomon's.
   Most of the ski makers also have decided they must get
bigger. That's why Salomon went into skis, and Rossignol into
boots -- each enraging the other by doing so. Rossignol also
is trying to develop its own binding.
   In Austria, the world's No. 2 ski maker, Atomic, controls
Dynamic skis, Koflach boots and Ess bindings. The Head group,
which makes skis in Austria though its capital is American
and Japanese, also makes tennis rackets and has acquired
Tyrolia bindings. Nordica boots, the market leader, has been
acquired by Benetton, which also has bought Kaestle skis,
Prince tennis rackets and Rollerblade skates.
   As the market has slumped recently, Rossignol and Salomon
have taken advantage of their marketing clout to steadily
boost market share. That could be bad news for some of the
smaller companies in Austria. Some Austrian makers are trying
to survive by going down-market, making lower-priced skis for
sale under sporting-goods stores' labels, for example.
   During the Winter Games, though, the big ski makers will
shift their eyes from broad strategic matters and focus
instead on the industry's quadrennial grand prize: the
priceless publicity of Olympic championships. Equipped by
Head, Austria's Patrick Ortlieb raced to the gold medal in
the men's downhill race, while silver-medalist Frank Piccard
brought honor to both Dynamic and France.