Politics  Policy -- Campaign '92:
   Surrogate Campaigners Try to Deflect
   Voter Ire From Bush to Anyplace Else
   ----
   By Michel McQueen
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Voters in this economically stricken state are upset with
the way things are going. In fact, they are madder than hell:
A recent poll by Sawyer-Miller Group found that an
overwhelming 82% of voters -- and 76% of Republicans --
believe the country is headed in the wrong direction. So, for
the army of surrogate campaigners the administration has
unleashed in advance of the Feb. 18 primary, the goal is
simple: Reroute that anger somewhere -- Saddam Hussein, Ted
Kennedy, anywhere -- away from George Bush.
   The task has taken on critical importance because of the
challenge posed to Mr. Bush by conservative television
commentator Patrick Buchanan. He has been blanketing the
state with eye-catching ads and a provocative message: that
President Bush has betrayed conservative values by raising
taxes, doling out too much foreign aid and too often making
common cause with Democrats.
   Polls in the state continue to show the president -- who
is due here to campaign personally next week -- with a lead
of better than 2 to 1. Bush strategists figure they can
effectively end the insurgent's challenge by drubbing him
here -- holding him to less than 30% of the vote.
   But the Bush campaign's fear remains that many voters
whose support for the president is soft or who are undecided
-- at least a quarter of the electorate -- will at the last
moment cast a protest vote for Mr. Buchanan. Former Gov. Hugh
Gregg, an adviser to the president's campaign here, says his
chief worry isn't the people who actually like Mr. Buchanan:
"I'm more worried about the Bush people who want to send a
message."
   If Mr. Buchanan can win 35% to 40% here, it would give him
ample ammunition to continue his campaign further into the
primaries. The last two incumbent presidents who faced that
kind of sustained primary challenge -- in 1976 and in 1980 --
were both defeated in November.
   To avert that, the Bush surrogate campaign tailors its
message as much as possible to the conservative GOP
electorate here. Congress is blamed at every turn;
campaigning yesterday, First Lady Barbara Bush said "the
economy will be great" -- if only Congress would pass Mr.
Bush's economic program. Heavy emphasis is placed on
surrogates with conservative credentials, such as Vice
President Dan Quayle, Housing and Urban Development Secretary
Jack Kemp, former Education Secretary William Bennett, House
Minority Whip Newt Gingrich of Georgia and Texas Sen. Phil
Gramm, all of whom have been here in recent days or are
scheduled to come.
   Several of these conservative stalwarts are being used not
just to tout Mr. Bush but also to go after Mr. Buchanan.
"Every moment Buchanan has to spend fighting for the right
wing is a moment he can't reach out for other voters," says
former New Hampshire Attorney General Thomas Rath, a Bush
campaign adviser here.
   To that end, the Bush campaign seeks to paint the
conservative challenger as giving aid and comfort to
congressional liberals by weakening the president. People who
vote for Mr. Buchanan "might as well cast a vote for Ted
Kennedy," says New Hampshire Gov. Judd Gregg, chairman of the
president's campaign in the state and Hugh Gregg's son.
   Some surrogates also have been willing to do what Mr. Bush
himself can't do, which is to attack the challenger directly.
Rep. Gingrich, for example, gibed that Mr. Buchanan "puts
America First except when he gets into his Mercedes." And Mr.
Bennett assailed him as "isolationist, protectionist . . .
and xenophobic," likening him to George McGovern and the 19th
century Know-Nothings.
   Not all the surrogate Bush campaigners have been wildly
effective. For example, former White House Chief of Staff
John Sununu, another former New Hampshire governor, remains
unpopular here; his efforts at a Salem gathering last weekend
to defend the president's 1990 budget-and-tax deal with
Congress seem to have produced little more than several
cranky editorials in the ultraconservative Manchester Union
Leader.
   Mr. Buchanan argues that all the surrogates in the world
can't shore up Mr. Bush. "If the president in the State of
the Union address can't convince conservatives, sending up
cabinet officers and others is not going to do the job," he
says after a well-attended appearance at Colby-Sawyer College
in New London. "This is between Pat Buchanan and George
Bush."