When to Refinance?
   ----
   By Mitchell Pacelle
Start by checking directly with lenders. Tell them what
you paid for your house, how much you still owe, and what you
are paying per month. Ask them what products they are
offering, and how much your monthly payments would be on
each.
   Then have them itemize all the expenses involved. In
addition to "points," fixed fees that can run from zero to 4%
of the loan, there are fees for the application, title
search, a credit report, lawyers and other services. They can
add up to as much as 5% of the loan amount.
   After totaling the costs, you can determine how long you
have to stay in the house to recoup what you will shell out
to refinance.
   If you're planning to stay in your house more than seven
or eight years, you'll probably want a fixed-rate loan, which
currently offer average rates of about 8.4%. That erases the
uncertainty over how much rates might rachet up over the life
of the loan.
   But if you expect to move before then, you should consider
either an adjustable-rate loan or a balloon-reset loan.
   Scores of banks are offering ARMs at less than 5%, with
annual rate increases capped at two percentage points, and a
lifetime cap of six points. Assume full upward adjustments,
then see if you'll cover costs before moving.
   Balloon-reset loans, now being offered at less than 8%,
are fixed-rate for seven years, then adjust to slightly above
the going rate for 30-year fixed-raters. Again, they can make
sense if you're going to move.
   Zero-point loans carry higher interest rates and, if
adjustable, higher caps on lifetime rate increases, but they
also can be a good deal for homeowners planning to move
within several years. Conversly, it can make sense to make
higher up-front payments for lower rates over the long term.
   (See related article: "Bargain Loans: The Rush to
Refinance Mortgages Is Creating Gridlock and Turmoil --- Some
Homeowners Save Big, But Others Can't Qualify Or Face Lengthy
Waits --- Upstart Lenders Muscle In" -- WSJ Jan. 15, 1992)