Marketing:
   Miller Is Frosty
   To Bud's Claim
   To Light Throne
   ----
   By Richard Gibson
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
And industry analysts say they're not sure who's right
because neither company will disclose their internal data,
which they say support their positions. Of Anheuser's claim,
Emanuel Goldman of PaineWebber Inc. says, "If they are first,
it's probably by a six-pack. It's that close."
   The fight for top billing between Anheuser and Miller has
been intense ever since the lighter beers were introduced
more than a decade ago. The Miller Lite brand has led the
category from the start, humbling the otherwise proud King of
Beers, whose Bud Light remains a distant No. 2 in the
category.
   The low-cal category is increasingly important because it
continues to enjoy strong growth in an otherwise flat
business. The light brews also consume huge quantities of
promotional dollars and are responsible for some of Madison
Avenue's best creative work.
   Which is why, when August A. Busch III, chairman and chief
executive of Anheuser-Busch Cos., boasted yesterday that his
company had "achieved the No. 1 position in the key light
beer segment for the first time," Miller Brewing accused Mr.
Busch of, uh, fibbing.
   "Published industry reports refute Anheuser's claim," a
spokeswoman for Miller shot back. "Miller continues to lead
the low-cal beer category, and Miller's own internal data
supports our leadership position."
   A unit of Philip Morris Cos., Miller lately has seen its
category-leading Miller Lite brand slip, and the brew's
recent "It's it and that's that" ad campaign draw unfavorable
reviews.
   One problem with Mr. Busch's assertion is that he didn't
back it up with any numbers. The statement was contained in
Anheuser's 1991 earnings report, but the company doesn't
break out sales or volume figures for any of its brands.
   A company spokesman would say only that "it's our estimate
that last year we edged past Miller" and alluded to "industry
data."
   But Impact, a newsletter for "the wine, spirits and beer
executive," gives Miller a slight edge. It estimates 1991
shipments of Miller Lite at 19.1 million barrels last year,
Miller Genuine Draft Light with 1.7 million barrels and
Milwaukee's Best Light with 1.3 million, giving Miller a
three-beer total of 22.1 million barrels.
   For Anheuser the publication estimates Bud Light with 12.4
million barrels, Natural Light with 4.3 million, Busch Light
Draft with 2.8 million and Michelob Light with 2.1 million,
for a total of 21.6 million barrels.
   Whoever's right, there's little argument that light beers
are a hit. In 1980 the category accounted for only 13% of the
market but by 1990 that share had jumped to 30%. Last year
the figure approached one-third of all beers consumed in the
U.S., says Benjamin Steinman, executive editor of Beer
Marketer's Insights, another industry publication.
   Analysts estimate that sales of Anheuser's flagship
Budweiser premium beer continued to slip last year, as did
those of its Michelob super-premium brew. But the recession
and higher taxes boosted sales of the company's lower-priced
Busch beers, analysts said.
   And while they say shipments of Bud Dry fell by perhaps
200,000 barrels last year, analysts believe it's too early to
tell how well that new category will fare. "The jury's still
out," says Mr. Steinman.