Reorganization at Coca-Cola Enterprises
   To Result in $91 Million Loss for 1991
   ----
   By Michael J. McCarthy
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
In 1990, Coca-Cola Enterprises alone, after several
one-time gains and charges, earned $93.4 million, or 65 cents
a share.
   The reorganization offers a blueprint for how the new
management plans to dig Coca-Cola Enterprises out of its
ditch. The company's stock price has suffered from an uneven
profit record for several years, partly because pricing wars
among bottlers have strained earnings. Bottling companies are
the soft-drink industry's franchised distributors.
   Critical to the plan is the unwinding of the bottler's
centralized structure. A major weakness of Coca-Cola
Enterprises has been its reliance on its headquarters in
Atlanta for marketing decisions, particularly pricing, which
are better done in the field, beverage industry executives
say. The Johnston bottler and rival PepsiCo Inc. use a
decentralized approach, and Coca-Cola Enterprises now will
similarly be shifting managers and responsibility out into 10
regions. "This is a street business," says Philip Sanford,
vice president, Coca-Cola Enterprises.
   Revamping sales and distribution centers will account for
$68 million of the charge, Mr. Sanford said, while
standardizing computer information systems will cost $26
million. The remaining $58 million covers severance and
relocation costs, including cutting about 100 jobs now,
mostly from headquarters. Over the next two years, the
company said it could eliminate an additional 100 to 200
jobs. Unrelated to the restructuring, Coca-Cola Enterprises
also said it would add $15 million to an insurance reserve.
   The company's new chief executive officer, S.K. Johnston
Jr., and its new president, Henry A. Schimberg, already had a
reputation as being among the most knowledgeable executives
in the bottling business. Beverage stock analysts generally
applauded their efforts to pare down the combined companies.
"The new management would like to get out of the starting
blocks quickly," said Emanuel Goldman, of PaineWebber Inc.,
who predicts the company will boost sales volume by 4% this
year, compared with a 0.5% volume decline last year.
   But Roy Burry, of Kidder Peabody Inc., says that a leaner,
meaner Coca-Cola Enterprises still has to contend with
pricecutting by Pepsi bottlers and a slowing in the growth of
the U.S. soft-drink business. "It's a toe-to-toe battle," he
says.
   As a result of the big charge, Coca-Cola Co., the
Atlanta-based soft drink company that owns 44% of its largest
bottler, said it would take a $44 million charge in the
fourth quarter, which would be offset by a $44 million gain
from the sale of property in Japan. Coca-Cola also said it
would report a $18 million gain from the sale of its stock in
Johnston to Coca-Cola Enterprises.
   In late New York Stock Exchange composite trading
yesterday, Coca-Cola Enterprises was quoted at $14.375, down
75 cents, while shares in Coca-Cola rose 75 cents to $73.375.