Global Market
   In Pollution Rights
   Proposed by U.N.
   ----
   By Jeffrey Taylor
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
"Obviously, this can't be ready in six months," said Frank
Joshua, economic affairs officer for the United Nations
Conference on Trade and Development. "It would have to be
discussed by governments of the Conference on Trade and
Development and, eventually, by the U.N. itself." Yet the
proposal could set a global precedent of using financial
markets to clean the environment, Mr. Joshua said.
   Growing numbers of scientists believe that the Earth's
temperature within 50 years will climb to dangerous levels,
eventually leading to coastal flooding, severe storms and
drought. Carbon-dioxide pollution from factories, power
generators and automobiles is thought to be the biggest
single contributor to global warming.
   At a meeting today in Geneva, the secretary-general of the
U.N. Conference on Trade and Development will release the
study, titled "Trading Entitlements to Control Carbon
Emissions: a Practical Proposal to Combat Global Warming."
   Its recommendations are similar to the contents of the
1990 U.S. Clean Air Act, which imposes a market-based system
of reducing emissions of sulfur dioxide, a pollutant that
produces acid rain. In a departure from traditional
regulatory methods, Congress gave polluters the right to meet
government pollution limits by buying and selling
sulfur-dioxide allowances. The U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency says the program will force electricity-generating
utilities to cut sulfur-dioxide pollution in half by the year
2000.
   Private markets such as the Chicago Board of Trade are
working on plans to run the EPA's sulfur dioxide allowance
market. William F. O'Connor, CBOT chairman, said through a
spokesman that his exchange also would be interested in
running a market in international carbon dioxide allowances.
   The commodities industry has adapted markets once intended
for agricultural products such as grains and livestock to
trade everything from stocks and bonds to foreign currencies.
Pollution rights will be the industry's next major area of
innovation, effectively turning air and water into
commodities, predicts Richard L. Sandor, an economist and
CBOT director who coauthored the U.N. study.
   "Air and water are simply no longer the `free goods' that
economists once assumed," Mr. Sandor said. "They must be
redefined as property rights so that they can be efficiently
allocated."
   Here's how the proposed international pollution-rights
trading system would work:
   Each allowance would entitle a company to emit one ton of
carbon dioxide a year; the allowances would be traded in
bundles of 100, permitting 100 tons of carbon dioxide
pollution. Each polluting company in participating countries
would get a certain number of allowances a year and could buy
additional allowances as needed.
   The number of allowances issued would be tightly
controlled by the global EPA, and reduced over a period of
years. Inefficient companies that belch huge quantities of
carbon dioxide would face increasingly steep payments for the
allowances they needed, while cleaner companies could make a
profit by selling their allowances on the open market.
   One obstacle the proposal faces is skepticism among some
environmentalists, who say allowing companies to buy the
right to pollute is immoral. Others predict an organizational
nightmare in trying to harness into a single system nations
at varying stages of economic development and with vastly
different environmental laws.
   "We are a long way from being able to define pollution as
a commodity to be traded and develop the necessary monitoring
and measurement schemes," said Mary Nichols, senior lawyer
for the Natural Resources Defense Council, a New York-based,
non-profit environmental group.
   Under the U.N. study, the first phase of the carbon
dioxide program would target the countries whose industries
are the biggest carbon-dioxide polluters. These would include
the U.S., Great Britain, Germany and former Eastern bloc
countries such as Russia and Belarus, which generate much of
their electrical power by burning coal. But scientists say
that efforts to reduce pollution at such fixed sites won't be
sufficient to curtail global warming unless auto emissions
are sharply lowered.