Technology  Medicine:
   Digital to Sell
   Its `Alpha' Chip
   To Kubota Ltd.
   ----
   By John R. Wilke
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Kubota, which has growing investments in the computer
industry, follows Cray Research Inc., the supercomputer
industry leader, which said last week that it would buy the
chip for its first generation of large parallel-design
supercomputers.
   Digital, the nation's second-largest computer maker, has
said it will announce its plans for the chip next week.
Analysts say the chip, code-named Alpha, is far more powerful
than the next-generation chips being developed by Digital's
rivals.
   Digital insiders said the first of the new chips will
become available immediately and will ship in volume this
summer, much sooner than had been expected. Analysts now
expect the first product based on an Alpha chip will be a
workstation available by year-end.
   The Maynard, Mass., company will price the chip at about
$1,500 in quantities of more than 1,000, these insiders said,
though the price could come down over time. For example,
Intel Corp.'s 80486 chip was priced at $950 when introduced
in 1989, but now sells for $417.
   Barry F. Willman, of Sanford C. Bernstein  Co., said he
expects Digital's new chip will run two major operating
systems, Unix and Microsoft Corp.'s coming Windows NT, in
addition to Digital's own VMS system. That could vastly
increase its market acceptance, he said.
   David M. Smith, of the market research firm International
Data Corp., said Digital has discussed licensing the Alpha
design with many computer makers, including such unlikely
partners as Stratus Computer Inc., Data General Corp. and
Tandem Computers Inc. But no other licensees are expected to
be announced by Digital next Tuesday, and these companies
couldn't be reached for comment last night.
   Mr. Smith said that Digital plans to begin selling systems
this summer that can be easily upgraded next year to the
Alpha design, a tactic that could help prevent the falloff of
sales of existing computers that often occurs before the
introduction of new technology.
   The expected relationship between Kubota and Digital
raises questions about the two companies' alliance with MIPS
Computer Systems Inc. Digital and Kubota have equity stakes
in MIPS, and Digital relies on MIPS for advanced,
reduced-instruction-set chips used in its workstation line.
   Digital has said MIPS will still have a role in its
product line after Alpha is introduced. A spokesman for
Kubota, of Osaka, wouldn't confirm the expected relationship
with Digital but said its alliance with MIPS wouldn't be
affected if it were to license Alpha. Kubota owns 17% of
MIPS, while Digital owns 5%.
   A MIPS spokeswoman declined to comment on Kubota's plans.
But she said that the relationships with Digital and Kubota
remained close and that it wouldn't be unusual for companies
to support more than one chip design for different segments
of their product line.
   Digital disclosed technical details of the Alpha chip at a
semiconductor industry conference yesterday. The chip has a
peak speed of 400 million instructions a second and operates
at 200 megahertz. It processes 64 bits of information at a
time, compared with the 32-bit memory address capability of
the most powerful chips in common use today.