Who's News:
   Praised Publisher
   Receives Bad Press
   From an Arbitrator
   ---
   IDG's McGovern, Once Part
   Of `Dream Team,' Is Told
   To Pay Former Staffers
   ----
   By Charles McCoy
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The ruling in effect upheld the group's charges that Mr.
McGovern and closely held IDG beat the former employees out
of bonuses and other compensation through questionable
accounting methods and other dubious tactics.
   About $1.3 million of the money would go to David Bunnell,
who founded several of the nation's hottest computer trade
magazines, some of them while heading up Boston-based IDG's
PCW Group unit from 1984 to 1989. "He cheats, and he has been
exposed," Mr. Bunnell said.
   Mr. McGovern couldn't be reached to comment, but his
attorney called the ruling "really wrong" and plans an
appeal. "He does not cheat," said Michael Keating, outside
counsel for IDG. "Bunnell and his people were amply
compensated while at IDG."
   The arbitrator's ruling won't dent Mr. McGovern's wallet
much; IDG counts among its holdings such highly popular
computer trade publications such as MacWorld, founded and
developed by Mr. Bunnell, and has annual sales estimated at
some $750 million. It's believed to be highly profitable.
   Still, the flap between two of the leading lights of the
computer trade-publication industry certainly puts a few
nicks in Mr. McGovern's image as a straight-shooting business
hero. In addition to Inc.'s crowning him head of its dream
management team -- which included Apple Computer Co.
co-founder Steve Jobs, among other luminaries -- he has been
the subject of many admiring media profiles, focusing mainly
on his legendary frugality and his no-bull approach. He built
IDG basically from scratch; in the early 1970s, IDG's
predecessor had sales of only a few million dollars a year.
   But Mr. Bunnell alleged in the arbitration case that Mr.
McGovern used accounting gimmicks to artifically depress the
results of the subsidiary Mr. Bunnell headed for IDG; that
allegedly gypped Mr. Bunnell and other employees out of
compensation, because certain payments were based on the
performance of the unit. He also alleged Mr. McGovern stole
his idea for the now prestigious and profitable MacWorld
annual computer conference.
   "It was my idea, and I never saw a penny from it," Mr.
Bunnell said.
   Mr. Bunnell currently is publisher of NewMedia magazine,
which focuses on the emerging multimedia industry. Multimedia
refers to computers which can process moving video pictures
and high-fidelity sound in addition to more conventional
computer tasks. He also publishes of BioWorld Today], a daily
newspaper on biotechnology that is faxed to subscribers.
   Mr. McGovern denied all Mr. Bunnell's allegations and
maintained IDG owed him nothing. The arbitrator didn't
venture an opinion on the specific allegations; as is common
in California, he merely issued a brief statement to the two
parties describing his ruling.
   ---
   Corrections  Amplifications
                                                                                                       

   PATRICK MCGOVERN wasn't a named defendant in a California
arbitration case decided in favor of David Bunnell, as stated
in an article Dec. 19. Rather, a unit of Mr. McGovern's
closely held International Data Group was a defendant.
   (WSJ Jan. 2, 1992)
   911219-0152