Potomac Watch:
   In New Hampshire
   Protectionists
   Slip on the Ice
   ----
   By Paul A. Gigot
Mr. Kerrey strides onto a hockey rink to stand beside a
goal. "What's happening in the world economy is like a hockey
game where others guard their goal and keep our products out,
while we leave our net open," says our leading existentialist
politician. "I'll tell Japan if we can't sell in their
market, they can't sell in ours. And if they don't get the
message, they'll find out this president is ready to play a
little defense too."
   The spot ran for about a week-and-a-half. Mr. Kerrey
proceeded to fall in the polls to the Jerry Brown country of
single digits.
   Last week, Mr. Kerrey admitted his blunder. "The reason I
say the hockey spot is a mistake is I believe in examining
the truth," he told Newsweek's Howard Fineman. "And the truth
is, the hockey spot drove my numbers down and not up."
Translating from the existential, that means "It isn't
popular."
   Only a few weeks ago, trade was heralded as the "major,
decisive" issue of 1992, as the protectionist Clyde
Prestowitz gleefully put it. But in the hard, skeptical
ground of New Hampshire, foreigner-bashing is showing all of
the appeal of a Dodge Omni; voters aren't buying.
   It's a replay of one of the oldest stories in politics,
the siren song of protectionism. Sound-bite superstar Kevin
Phillips, every Democrat's favorite Republican, has been
predicting the triumph of "economic nationalism" and trade
politics since at least 1985. His record of error is
preserved.
   In New Hampshire this year, the anti-protectionist message
is the one that seems to be working. Not long after Mr.
Kerrey whiffed on his slapshot, former Massachusetts Sen.
Paul Tsongas brought out his own 30-second TV spot.
   It opens with the scene of an empty factory floor. "All
the Japan bashing in the world won't open this factory," says
the voice -- over. "Every Democrat promises to get tough on
trade, but let's not kid ourselves. America must take control
of its own fate."
   Cut to Japanese cars over a red rising sun. "Others just
blame the Japanese," says the announcer. "Paul Tsongas will
beat them -- the American way -- by making quality come first
again." Mr. Tsongas, who's wittier than his reputation, also
zapped Mr. Kerrey in a Jan. 19 debate: "Any Bobby Orr fan can
tell you," he said about the legendary Boston defenseman,
"you don't win a hockey game unless you score. . . . We have
to have an offense."
   Mr. Tsongas has climbed in the polls to the middle-20s, a
solid second behind Hillary Clinton's husband. Mr. Tsongas
may be, as Richard Nixon says, "too responsible" to win the
Democratic nomination, but give him credit for making the
case for open markets without apology to a tough audience; it
shows conviction.
   Naturally, the trade warriors are blaming their flop on
something other than their message. Mr. Shrum, who is nothing
if not resourceful, told the Boston Globe the hockey spot
didn't run often enough. This is the same excuse Mr. Gephardt
(and Mr. Phillips) used to explain his bust in 1988's Super
Tuesday primaries. Strange how protectionists always seem to
be running out of money at key moments.
   More revealing is how Mr. Kerrey has changed his message.
His TV response to Mr. Tsongas still blames "unfair trade
practices" that cost jobs. But now his vow is to "force open
Japanese markets," not to keep out Japanese goods. Even this
ad hasn't sent him zooming up in the polls, though.
   In the broader campaign, too, protectionism has become a
stray dog. Republican Pat Buchanan now says he's a "trade
hawk," not a protectionist, a nondistinction he must have
invented while driving in his Mercedes. In any event, his ads
stress spending and taxes far more than trade. Mr. Clinton
leans to open markets, when he isn't talking on all sides of
the issue. The only undiluted protectionist is Iowa Sen. Tom
Harkin, but even he's avoided the subject in his TV ads.
   Maybe the candidates are reading polls that show New
Hampshirites, like most Americans, don't buy the easy
temptation to blame foreigners. And if they don't buy it
during an economic depression like New Hampshire's today,
protectionists should ask if they ever will. Tubby Harrison,
who advises Mr. Tsongas, says he recently asked Midwesterners
to cite either our own mistakes or Japanese trading habits as
the cause of our economic ills. They chose our problems by
three-to-one.
   All of which should embolden even the fainthearts in the
Bush White House. Instead of hiding behind Lee Iacocca, Mr.
Bush could campaign openly for his Mexican free-trade accord,
and for a post-Cold War world based on free-trade principles
led by a rejuvenated America. Maybe someone should send him
Paul Tsongas's talking points.