Medtronic and Ventritex Defibrillators
   Expected to Be Cleared by FDA Panel
   ----
   By Phillip E. Nalbone
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
On Monday, the circulatory system devices panel of the
medical devices advisory committee will review the premarket
approval application for Medtronic Inc.'s
Pacemaker-Cardioverter-Defibrillator. On Tuesday, the same
panel will review the application for Ventritex Inc.'s
Cadence V100 defibrillator.
   As with conventional defibrillators, both Medtronic's PCD
and Ventritex's Cadence V-100 are implanted in the patient's
abdomen and connected by wires to the heart through
thoracotomy, or open-chest surgery. But unlike previous
defibrillators, the new products provide "staged" therapy,
meaning that the devices distinguish among varying degrees of
tachyarrhythmia and defibrillation and deliver the
appropriate level of electrical shock.
   The Cadence V-100 will be the first commercial product for
Sunnyvale, Calif., Ventritex, which went public Jan. 22.
Minneapolis-based Medtronic already is a major world-wide
force in the cardiac devices industry. Nearly 30 years ago,
Medtronic introduced the first implantable cardiac pacemaker
to treat bradycardia, an abnormally slow heart rate. By some
estimates, the company still leads that market with about a
45% share of the annual $1.4 billion bradycardia-pacing
market. That market is growing at about 5% to 6% a year.
   In contrast to the large but mature bradycardia-pacing
market, the young tachyarrhythmia-management market can grow
between 30% and 50% a year, according to Alex. Brown  Sons
Inc. analyst Jonathan W. Osgood.
   World-wide sales of implantable cardiac defibrillators
currently run at about $200 million to $250 million a year,
and Osgood projects that annual sales of these devices could
reach $1 billion by the end of the decade. Until March 1991,
when Medtronic introduced its PCD in Europe, Eli Lilly 
Co.'s Cardiac Pacemaker Inc. unit was the only player in the
tachyarrhythmia-management market.
   Mr. Osgood told Dow Jones Professional Investor Report
that Medtronic's European PCD sales are above the company's
expectations. He thinks that Medtronic, in less than one
year, already has captured a 30% to 40% share of the European
market.
   The first generation of implantable cardiac defibrillators
was represented by the Lilly unit's Ventak, introduced in the
U.S. market in 1985, which delivered an "all-ornothing" shock
to patients in ventricular tachycardia. That shock was often
too intense and thus painful. "What was required was
something more subtle," said Piper Jaffray  Hopwood Inc.
analyst Ed Mutsch.
   The Lilly unit's second-generation device, the Ventak-P,
made a small step forward, Mr. Mutsch said, "by offering some
degree of programmability or variability in the amount of
electrical shock that could be delivered to the patient."
   Although Medtronic's and Ventritex's third-generation
products offer a full-blown staged approach to
tachyarrhythmia management, they still require open-chest
surgery. "The products to be reviewed next week are devices
that take quantum leaps forward in subtlety," but still
require a thoracotomy, Mr. Mutsch said. The analyst said the
implantable-defibrillator market truly take off when
fourth-generation, nonthoracotomy products are introduced
into the U.S. market.
   That's why Mr. Mutsch and several other analysts are
saying that they favor Medtronic to eventually dominate the
market. Medtronic already has developed a fourth-generation
capability by combining the staged therapy system of the PCD
with its Transvene system that allows the device to be
implanted without open-chest surgery, thus reducing trauma
and hospitalization time. Medtronic is now introducing the
Transvene system in several European countries, and analysts
expect it to file for approval to market the product in the
U.S. as early as February.