Enterprise:
   The Right Niche Can Mean Profits for a New Venture
   ---
   How an Anesthesiologist Made
   His Mark in the Insurance Market
   ----
   By Brent Bowers
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Dr. Schoenstadt quickly demonstrated how knowledge of a
specialized field can lead to a successful upstart business
-- even in a field dominated by giants. Today, the company
trumpets itself in ads as No. 1 in its specialty.
   The company says that Dr. Schoenstadt, who died
unexpectedly in December of cancer, set its initial premiums
more than 10% below the prevailing rates in states where it
did business and has reduced them every year since its
founding in 1987.
   To escape brokers' and agents' fees, the company sells
primarily by direct mail or at exhibits at doctors'
conferences, using "aggressive telephone follow-up," a
spokesman says, and it advertises in anesthesiology journals.
   Dr. Schoenstadt also instituted a strict screening process
to weed out high risks. The company pays doctors to analyze
an applicant's practice, and it conducts background checks
for evidence of drug or alcohol abuse, which traditionally
have plagued the profession, and for any history of medical
malpractice, traffic arrests, credit difficulties or
psychological problems. It says it rejects one in five
applicants.
   The company today claims 2,000 of the 15,000
anesthesiologists in the U.S. who require malpractice
insurance -- far more than any other single company, it says.
And though Preferred Physicians is owned by its
policyholders, Dr. Schoenstadt and a group of investors he
put together made a healthy return from the management
company they formed to run it.
   The mutual company reports that as of Dec. 31, it had
accumulated assets of $28 million and total reserves of $18
million. It had paid only $537,000 in claims and faced a
maximum exposure of $4.9 million on pending claims.
   In an interview a few weeks before his death, Dr.
Schoenstadt portrayed Preferred Physicians as a financial
savior for a profession that the insurance establishment had
gouged for too long.
   "In 1987, anesthesiologists spent about $400 million on
malpractice insurance, or about $27,000 each," he said.
"Today, the cost is closer to $150 million, or $10,000 each.
We think we're the major reason." Competitors dispute that,
saying that improved monitoring procedures are the primary
explanation.
   Dr. Schoenstadt also showed a gift for taking full
advantage of changes in legislation. To foster competition
and thus rein in runaway liability costs, Congress enacted a
law in 1986 permitting a liability-insurance company that
meets certain guidelines and gets a license in one state to
do business in the other 49 without meeting all their
licensing requirements. Preferred Physicians was built around
that law, gaining Missouri's approval and skirting the
bureaucrats almost everywhere else.
   Dr. Schoenstadt, who once owned the Kansas City Comets and
New York Arrows soccer teams, launched a second
malpractice-insurance company in 1989 for orthopedic
surgeons. Toward the end of last year, he said, U.S.
Physicians Mutual Risk Retention Group had already signed up
200 of the 1,200 U.S. orthopedic surgeons who purchase such
protection. The combined premium income of the two companies
rose to $16 million last year from $10.7 million in 1990.
   The officials who now run the two insurance companies say
they are studying plans for launching a third, for
obstetricians, and are contemplating the creation of a
fourth.
   Preferred Physicians' fast growth, to say nothing of its
founder's sometimes abrasive style, has attracted plenty of
critics.
   They contend the company has grown much too fast, and
assert it is charging dangerously low rates. They wonder why
expenses, including management fees, absorb nearly 40 cents
of every premium dollar -- roughly double the industry
average.
   Gene Witherspoon, chief operating officer of
Anesthesiologists' Professional Assurance Co. of Miami and a
former Florida insurance regulator, says "it scares . . . me
to see how fast they've grown. To charge the kind of rates
they charge and still set up minimal reserves has never been
done before.
   "There's no magic in liability insurance," he adds.
"Doctors get sued."
   Other companies echo those concerns. But Preferred
Physicians officials brush off the skeptics' comments as sour
grapes. They say the company has more than adequate reserves
and reinsurance protection to meet potential liability
claims. They insist the management costs aren't out of line.
And they vow to fight attempts by some states to curtail
Preferred Physicians' activities.
   For example, Preferred Physicians and its sister company,
U.S. Physicians, filed suit in federal court last year
against New York state's insurance department, two New York
hospitals and two New York medical-malpractice insurance
companies, accusing them of illegally stifling competition to
prop up the local malpractice-insurance industry. New York
insurance officials say they are doing nothing illegal and
claim their only concern is to make sure residents get the
best malpractice protection available.
   In Louisiana, where another risk retention group was put
into liquidation last November, Allan Pursnell, the assistant
commissioner for insurance, says, "We have difficulty with
these groups. They need more regulation" to ensure that they
are managed soundly.
   Nonsense, says Gerald Tuohy, president and acting chairman
of Preferred Physicians Mutual Risk Retention Group, and a
shareholder in its management company.
   "I think we've demonstrated you can take on the giants,"
Dr. Tuohy says. "The way to do it is to insist that the
physician meets certain standards. For most companies out
there, if you have a white coat and a checkbook, you're in."
   Adds David Jewell, Preferred Physicians' vice president
for marketing, "We frustrate . . . our competitors.
Everybody's trying to find something wrong with us. But there
is nothing wrong."