Cable-TV Industry
   Backs Senate Bill
   In Bid to Derail It
   ----
   By Mary Lu Carnevale
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The industry's idea apparently is to derail any bill. In a
memo late last week, National Cable Television Association
President Jim Mooney outlined the industry's strategy to NCTA
board members. He said the Bush administration and the NCTA
will support amending the bill for now but "will not support
the bill even if the amendment is adopted." However, the
administration said yesterday it supports the industry-backed
alternative but would like to work with Congress "to modify
or eliminate some troublesome provisions."
   The industry's purpose is to gather enough votes for an
amended bill to ensure that Congress can't override a
presidential veto of a tougher bill. Mr. Mooney wrote that if
the amendment attracts "34 or more votes" in the Senate -- or
enough votes to sustain a veto -- "the politics of the
controversy will have been substantially altered."
   Cable's strategy may backfire. Already, the memo, which
kept Capitol Hill facsimile machines buzzing through the
weekend, has undercut the appearance of sincerity. "It's
clear the substitute {bill} is only an effort to derail the
whole bill," says Gene Kimmelman, legislative director of the
Consumer Federation of America.
   Consumer groups have been pushing for strong re-regulation
in light of continued increases in cable rates and
"re-tiering," or eliminating staple programming such as Cable
News Network from cable companies' "basic" service. The
practice is aimed at avoiding regulation of what has been
considered a basic tier of service.
   For the Bush administration, reining in the cable industry
poses some tough problems. The president doesn't want to be
viewed as supporting new regulations; but neither would he
savor vetoing popular consumer legislation in an election
year.
   If the measure passes overwhelmingly, Rep. Edward Markey
(D., Mass.), chairman of the House telecommunications
subcommittee, will be expected to take it up quickly.
Lobbying is expected to intensify as broadcasters, wireless
cable operators, phone companies, Hollywood and cable
interests battle for turf.
   Broadcasters are concerned about the erosion of their
audience and profits by cable, which has grown to a $20
billion industry in recent years. To address that, the Senate
bill -- and the industry-backed amended bill -- contain
provisions that would allow broadcasters to negotiate fees
from cable systems that carry their signal or forgo payments
and compel cable companies to carry their signal. The cable
industry would like to kill that provision when the House
takes up a cable bill.
   Phone companies, meanwhile, want to make sure that any
bill fosters competition and are considering a push in the
House to allow them to enter the cable business. The phone
companies hold out the possibility of upgrading their
networks with fiber optic technology, to try to ensure that
the U.S. will keep its lead in world-wide communications.
   That's the step cable companies fear most. "We're not
going to encourage anybody to let the telephone companies
in," says Stephen Effros, president of the Community Antenna
Cable Association. "There is no level playing field with the
phone companies and their massive capital base. There can be
no equal competition."