Psoriasis Sufferers
   Find a New Life
   At the Dead Sea
   ---
   Nude Sunbathing Aids Many,
   And Clinics That Start Up
   Are a Boon to Tourism
   ----
   By Amy Dockser Marcus
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Mrs. Gerlach is not here on vacation. She is one of 10,000
people from all over the world who come to the Dead Sea each
year for relief from psoriasis, a chronic skin disorder
characterized by red, scaly patches. It is unsightly, it
itches, it hurts and Mrs. Gerlach has suffered from it for
almost 30 years. "It's awful," she says.
   She has been all over the world in search of treatment.
"I've tried skin peels and pills. I've spent hours on the
beaches at the Bahamas, the Maldives and Florida," she says.
Now she spends six hours a day lying in the sun here. "The
Dead Sea," she says, "is my last stop."
   For centuries, magical healing powers have been associated
with the Dead Sea, which got its name from the fact that
plants and fish can't survive in its salty waters. The Romans
recommended Dead Sea bitumen for healing wounded gladiators.
Kings bathed regularly in the mineral-rich waters to cure a
variety of ailments. And the Queen of Sheba and Cleopatra
supposedly used the black clay-like mud as part of their
beauty regimens.
   Now the Israelis hope to turn the site into a modern mecca
for the treatment of psoriasis. Shoehorned in among the strip
of luxury beach resorts of the Dead Sea are three clinics
that treat psoriasis. Each sees at least 2,000 patients a
year -- and each plans to expand. "This could become the
world center for therapeutic tourism," says Yosef Bar-Giyora,
manager of the Deutsches Medizinisches Zentrum (DMZ) clinic,
which opened four years ago.
   The treatment is simple: four to six weeks of ambling from
a lounge chair to the sea and back again, plus a regular
application of ointments. The average cost: around $2,500,
including lodging at a Dead Sea hotel, plus airfare.
   Physicians at the Soroka hospital at Ben-Gurion University
found that 85% of sufferers who visited the Dead Sea cleared
up or showed significant improvement. And although there is
no permanent cure, the physicians estimate that most people
who come to the Dead Sea don't have another outbreak for an
average of six months, which compares favorably with other
treatments, including steroids, cortisone and ultraviolet
light.
   Those who say the Dead Sea treatment works (some patients
say their private doctors remain skeptical) suggest it is the
combination of the bromide-laden air, the high salt and
mineral content of the water and the effect of the mud in
slowing down the growth of psoriatic skin cells. Most
important, however, is the Dead Sea's special climate: plenty
of sun, and such a low elevation that harmful rays are
filtered out, allowing people to stay longer in the sun
without burning.
   The National Psoriasis Foundation, a 21,000-member group
based in Portland, Ore., supports the treatment. "There are
no guarantees in psoriasis treatment, but we believe this is
an effective therapy for many people," says Glynnis McNeal,
the group's public-information director. Many health plans in
Europe cover the treatment; so does Blue Cross and Blue
Shield of Washington, D.C.
   "The therapy itself works, and the reason why it works
there and not in other places is because of the topographical
differences and the effect of the light," says Ernesto
Gonzalez, an assistant professor of dermatology at Harvard
Medical School. But he offers a caveat: "Patients face the
possibility of developing skin cancer or skin aging, which
are long-term side effects of any treatment that uses light,
whether artificially or at the Dead Sea."
   Hilda DeBeer, a 61-year-old from Holland, is a believer.
"My doctor gave me creams, rays, and pills. Nothing worked.
Then two years ago I came on a tour of Israel and spent a day
at the Dead Sea. The next day my psoriasis was gone."
   And this treatment is a lot more fun than most. Isabelle
Corre, a 26-year-old Parisian on her sixth trip to the Dead
Sea, says she tried all the traditional methods for
alleviating psoriasis, which she has had since she was five.
"When I stayed in the hospital for psoriasis treatment, I had
to switch off the lights at 10, and the nurse was always
watching me to see if I was smoking," she says. "Here, I walk
around without any clothes on and feel free."
   Doctors still aren't sure what causes psoriasis, and many
people are even reluctant to admit they have it. Although the
National Psoriasis Foundation estimates that 2% of people are
affected world-wide, psoriasis has no high-profile celebrity
willing to raise money or discuss the disorder, although it
can claim well-known people like writer John Updike among its
sufferers.
   One problem psoriasis sufferers face: Because of
well-known ads about "the heartbreak of psoriasis" and such,
many associate psoriasis with simple dandruff, whereas it
actually can affect the entire body and even disable people.
   Many people with psoriasis say they feel isolated. Ms.
DeBeer, the tourist from Holland, says back home she always
felt that people were staring at her. "I wore stockings all
the time, even in the summer" to cover patches, she says. But
now, after a month at the Dead Sea, even Ms. DeBeer admits to
staring occasionally: "It helps to see that there are others
worse off than I am. I feel like I'll never complain again."
   Rami Ruhig, manager of the four-year-old Mor
Dermatological and Rheumatological Clinic, one of the three
clinics, says that for many people this is their first chance
to really talk about the disorder. "People form a bond with
each other," he says. "We've even had some patients who
married after meeting here."
   The clinics are pushing to double the number of patients
that come to the Dead Sea. The DMZ clinic, for example,
launched a recent media campaign in an effort to attract more
European visitors. It ran a scientific conference on the
effect of the Dead Sea, attended by 200 German doctors and
scientists, and has even produced a video and a promotional
catalog, complete with pictures of attractive, healthy
patients.
   The clinic itself, on the other hand, is spartan, since
patients stay in one of the local hotels. "We believe it
helps their treatment if they feel like regular tourists and
mingle with other people," says Mr. Bar-Giyora, the manager.
Mainly, patients just come by for a checkup or ointment and
then head for the beach.
   Mrs. Gerlach, the German tourist, is at the hotel
whirlpool by 7 a.m. Then it's a full day of sunbathing and
swimming. At the solarium on the beach, men and women lie
naked in sex-segregated areas connected by a strip of sand
set aside for coed volleyball games, where bathing suits are
required. Once a week, a singer comes by and regales the
sunbathers with Israeli folk songs.
   Mrs. Gerlach's day is capped off with a sauna and a
massage. Dinner is a salad or fish. Then, a quick drink of
tomato juice at the bar, some television, and off to bed. But
Mrs. Gerlach insists she is having fun. "My skin has never
been this clean," she says. "Believe me, seeing that is fun."