Customers May Face a Surcharge
   If They Don't Fold Their Napkins
   ----
   By Suein L. Hwang
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
"We don't know about you, but we've had enough of
everybody taking a shot at American Productivity," Bouley
(pronounced boolay) said in a letter to the vendors who
supply such goodies as organic milk-fed guinea hen and
fingerling potatoes. "Well] We're not going to stand by while
the Japanese and others make fun of American Worker
Productivity. We are going to do something about it."
   From now on, Bouley warned, any letter or invoice sent
with the feeder railing attached would incur a $1-a-page
"Productivity Charge." Math errors would cost $5 each,
pricing problems $50.
   Some recipients are less than pleased.
   "Has New York's No. 1-rated restaurant sunk to new
depths?" asks one vendor. "Is business so bad for Bouley that
they must nickel and dime their suppliers and insult our
American laziness?"
   The letter was a surprise to Bouley's owner, who says it
was meant as a joke. "We have no interest in charging
anyone," says David Bouley, adding that the restaurant is
sending another letter to clear up any confusion. He says he
didn't authorize the first letter: "I never would have
allowed such a letter to be sent out."
   The messy incident surprises a spokesman for Zagat Survey,
which publishes an influential New York restaurant review
that recently crowned Bouley the top eatery. The spokesman
notes that generosity is part of the restaurant's reputation
-- it has a $5,000-a-month flower budget and often gives
handmade New Hampshire chocolates to departing diners.
   The letter was the brainchild of Bouley's controller,
Kevork K. Kalayjian, a 10-year veteran of the bill-paying
business, who felt his oft-repeated productivity lessons to
vendors were falling on deaf ears. "My colleagues spend a lot
of time cleaning paper," he grouses. "When you get paper with
the railing still on it, you can't fit it in a folder. It
makes life difficult for everybody." He says he hasn't seen a
feeder railing since the letter was sent.