Merrill Promotes
   Tully, Schreyer's
   Heir Apparent
   ----
   By Michael Siconolfi and William Power
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
Yesterday's move assures a smooth management transition at
Merrill in an industry known for its high-level shake-ups.
And the appointment makes it all but certain that Merrill
will continue its tradition of being led by former
stockbrokers, in contrast to many other Wall Street
securities firms that are run by investment bankers. Merrill
has the nation's biggest army of stockbrokers, with 11,000.
   With Merrill posting record profit of $696.1 million last
year, Mr. Tully's compensation soared even before his
promotion. His combined 1991 salary and bonus, which hasn't
been disclosed yet, is expected to triple to about $4
million, people familiar with the firm said. Buoyed by the
booming stock and bond markets, Merrill's return on equity
shot up to 20.8% last year, the firm's highest since 1982,
from only 5.8% in 1990.
   Both Messrs. Tully and Schreyer are former Merrill
stockbrokers who have spent their entire careers at the firm
and worked their way up the ranks. During his 37-year tenure,
Mr. Tully has been involved in accounting, operations and
brokerage operations; he headed Merrill's private client
group before being named president and chief operating
officer in July 1985.
   Because they have worked so closely together, there aren't
likely to be drastic changes at Merrill as Mr. Tully takes
over. He and Mr. Schreyer have been one of the closest top
executive teams on Wall Street; every memo to come out of the
firm has been co-signed by the two men, which is a break from
Merrill tradition.
   "They've been working as a team for so long that I
wouldn't know where I'd differentiate them," said Alison
Deans, a brokerage analyst at Smith Barney, Harris Upham 
Co. Some Merrill insiders even took to calling the two men
"Bartles  Jaymes," after the homespun wine-cooler pitchmen.
   Though Mr. Tully's tenure as chairman will be limited to
only four years, that's not unusual at Merrill. The firm
hasn't had a history of long-term chairmen; five to seven
years has been the typical tenure.
   Mr. Tully said yesterday he wants to "build on the
successes of the past." In an interview, he said: "We will
continue to manage this company controlling that which we can
control. We can control costs, we can control quality and
client focus. We can't control the environment," meaning what
the stock market does.
   Wall Street executives said Mr. Tully's strength is his
deep background in "retail" brokerage work for individual
investors -- still the backbone of Merrill despite the firm's
huge investment banking operations. "He understands the
business that Merrill Lynch is in very well; he's from that
culture," said John S. Chalsty, chief executive of Donaldson,
Lufkin  Jenrette Inc., who serves with Mr. Tully on the New
York Stock Exchange board.
   Mr. Tully is taking over Merrill while the firm is riding
high, shaking off years of mediocre earnings -- and a record
$213.4 million loss in 1989.
   But Mr. Tully has been criticized within Merrill for his
relentless optimism and seemingly slow reaction to some of
the firm's problems in the 1980s. These included Merrill's
overexpansion, which left the firm saddled with too many
employees and too much office space after the 1987
stock-market crash. Until its turnaround in 1991, Merrill was
criticized repeatedly for being too paternalistic, for
wasting money and focusing too much on market share as its
earnings dragged along in mediocrity.
   Yet former Merrill executives say there is a method to Mr.
Tully's ever-optimistic approach.
   "One of the most revealing things he ever said to me is:
`When you're the boss, you should always communicate a sense
of confidence to people,'" said Raymond Minella, a former top
executive at Merrill who now co-heads Berenson Minella  Co.,
an investment banking boutique. "He was right. If people
think the boss is worried, they get worried, too."
   Mr. Tully, a bear-like man with wavy silver hair, is known
for his jovial, backslapping management style. But "it
shouldn't be confused that since he's friendly he's not
forceful; he doesn't mince words," said Edward O'Brien,
chairman of the Securities Industry Association trade group,
where Mr. Tully has been a director.
   Though Messrs. Schreyer and Tully were the architects of a
recent cost-cutting drive, for instance, it was Mr. Tully who
went into the trenches and put the hard decisions in place.
"You don't need two chefs messing around in the stew," Mr.
Schreyer said yesterday. Besides, he said, Mr. Tully is
"younger and bigger and meaner."