IRS Urges New Rule to Assess Transfers
   Of Assets to U.S. by Multinational Firms
   ----
   By Lucinda Harper
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Billions of dollars of revenue are potentially at stake,
and the IRS says abuse in this area has become more prevalent
as more foreign businesses open operations in the U.S.
   The regulations deal specifically with transactions
involving so-called intangibles such as patents, research,
formulas and trademarks, but the IRS says it may apply the
regulations to other types of transfers as well.
   But tax experts say setting profitability guidelines to
determine taxes is sure to stir protests from U.S. treaty
partners and multinational companies.
   "These regulations are going to be very controversial
because they introduce a lot of new concepts that aren't
common throughout the rest of the world," said Larry Dildine,
director of tax economics at Price Waterhouse in Washington.
"It seems to suggest that no company should be more or less
profitable than its competitors."
   For tangible assets, the IRS uses a "matching" or
"comparable" technique to figure out taxes owed. For
instance, if a Korean sneaker company sold athletic shoes for
$100 to its U.S. subsidiary, but an independent wholesaler
sold similar sneakers for $80 to its customer, the IRS would
insist that the Korean shoe manufacturer make its price to
the U.S. affiliate comparable.
   However, that technique is harder to use with intangible
assets because there is rarely an apple-to-apple comparison
to be made for formulas or trade names.
   Robert Colberston, associate chief international counsel
for the IRS, said the profit margin standard will be a
"significant carrot" for companies because they will know up
front what their profit margins are expected to be.
   Although the issue promises to be controversial, Mr.
Dildine said the regulations probably will be adopted in some
form "because there have been no better ideas."
   The IRS is accepting comments and reactions on the
regulations for the next four months.