Investor Control
   Of Retirement
   Funds Is Rising
   ---
   Defined Contribution Plans'
   Growth May Boost Role
   Of Individuals in Market
   ----
   By Craig S. Smith
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Defined contribution plans accounted for 33% of retirement
assets in 1991, up from 25% in 1985, according to Greenwich
Associates, a Greenwich, Conn., research firm. That trend is
continuing.
   "Defined-contribution plans are the fastest-growing
segment of retirement dollars in America," said Ted Lavelle,
senior vice president of sales at Fidelity Institutional
Retirement Services Co., a unit of Boston-based Fidelity
Investments. Mr. Lavelle said 401K assets are quickly
becoming most individuals' second-largest asset, after their
homes, and before long will exceed their homes in value.
   The 401K, named for a section of the Internal Revenue
Code, is the most popular form of defined contribution plan,
allowing employees to invest a portion of their compensation
on a tax-deferred basis until retirement.
   Professionally managed pension funds have long dominated
the investment landscape in this country, having edged out
the small investor for top spot in the stock market some time
in the 1960s. Small investors seeking safety in a market
increasingly dominated by big players, meanwhile, fled into
mutual funds.
   In time, however, 401K money and the money in similar
retirement accounts, together with the $650 billion or so
that individuals have invested on their own in mutual funds,
will mean the largest pool of investment dollars in the U.S.
is under at least partial control of mom-and-pop investors.
That could change the flavor of the financial markets.
   Gordon Fines, a money manager with IDS Financial Services
of Minneapolis, which manages both pension funds and mutual
funds, argued that pension-plan sponsors tend to be more
dispassionate about investing than individuals, who may be
more moved by short-term events.
   Most of the money currently held in individually directed
retirement plans is invested in company stock and guaranteed
investment contracts, but a significant amount is earmarked
for stock, bond and money-market funds.
   That weighting is beginning to change as companies urge
employees to diversify their investments in retirement
accounts. Last year's trouble in the insurance industry has
also spooked some investors out of GICs, which are issued by
insurance companies.
   Meanwhile, education campaigns by mutual fund companies
and employers have started a slow avalanche of retirement
savings sliding toward equity investments from more
conservative alternatives.
   Individuals with 401Ks and similar retirement plans don't
normally buy and sell specific stocks through their accounts,
but they are likely to have a significant influence on the
equity market by buying and selling mutual funds.
   Said Joseph McAlinden, director of research at Dillon Read
 Co.: "You may get somewhat increased volatility and
increased sensitivity to changes in interest rates as these
asset class allocations are made more spontaneously and more
frequently by a larger number of decision makers."
   Added Alex Nelson, chief administrative officer for Putnam
Financial Services, the distributor of Putnam mutual funds,
"It could be an enormous factor if there was a sudden
disenchantment with any one asset class."
   Many market analysts attribute much of the recent
400-point rally by the Dow Jones Industrial Average to the
flow of money from individual investors who either switched
out of money market or bond funds into stock funds, or bought
mutual funds when their bank CDs matured. Some of that money
came from retirement accounts such as 401Ks.
   Ira Walker, senior vice president and retirement plan
coordinator at Dean Witter Reynolds, said retirement plan
sponsors that he works with report that 50% to 70% of
401K-plan participants chose to shift some money into
equities in December.
   Many of the plans ask participants to decide in December
what to do with money that their companies contribute to the
plans in early January.
   Employers are worried that the conservative investment
alternatives chosen by many investors will prove inadequate
or disappointing in the long run, and are trying to encourage
workers to diversify their holdings by putting at least some
of their money into the stock market.
   Because retirement accounts are funded incrementally over
time, they provide the perfect vehicle for "dollar-cost
averaging," an investment strategy that involves buying small
amounts of stock at regular intervals, investment advisers
say.
   If the stock market continues to rise despite relatively
short periods of decline, as it has historically, dollar-cost
averaging almost guarantees investment gains in the longer
term.
   Some employers are acting on their own and hiring mutual
fund conglomerates on the advice of corporate attorneys who
worry about liability if retirement investments fall short of
their former employees' needs.
   Mutual fund companies are experienced in walking a fine
line between advice and education. Employers are often
reluctant to advise employees on their investments for fear
of breaching their fiduciary duty.
   Congress has gotten into the act. Alarmed by the
concentration of retirement dollars in GICs and
sponsor-company stock, legislators have been bandying about
proposals to force employers to provide workers with options
to diversify their portfolios.
   "If corporate America is going to ask you to control your
retirement income, they have to make sure they put the tools
in your hands to execute that control," said Fidelity's Mr.
Lavelle.
   Putnam Financial's Mr. Nelson sees the shift toward
equities already.
   "The preponderance of money, from 401K plans and
elsewhere, is flowing into equities," he said, adding, "at
Putnam there is a tilt toward small-cap stocks that we think
that will influence the pricing of those securities over the
next several years."