LEISURE  ARTS -- Bookshelf:
   Another Conspiracy Theory
   ----
   By Daniel Pipes
To be sure, Mr. Seale peppers his text with conditions. It
is "not inconceivable" that Abu Nidal was manipulated by
Israel; he has "possible" connections to Mossad. Mr. Seale
also admits counterevidence that Abu Nidal's organization has
repeatedly targeted Jews. But the central point remains: A
respected journalist and a leading publishing house have
teamed up to charge Israel with sponsoring one of the most
murderous groups active in the world today.
   Mr. Seale goes further. Even if the Israelis do not
actually control Abu Nidal, they must still take
responsibility for him. Why? Because way back in 1974, they
refused to negotiate with Yasser Arafat. Had they done so,
Mr. Arafat would have had the strength to suppress Abu Nidal.
In short, Mr. Seale has a single main goal in his book: one
way or another to tar Israel with the sins of the most brutal
Palestinian terrorists.
   Mr. Seale's peculiar effort needs to be put into its
proper context, which is to say a Middle Eastern one. In what
Richard Nixon once dubbed "the ultimate conspiratorialist
notion," Arabs and Iranians routinely blame Israeli
authorities for the deaths of their own citizens. King Faisal
of Saudi Arabia held that "Zionists were behind the
Palestinian terrorists." Faruq Kaddumi of the Palestine
Liberation Organization informed the United Nations that Leon
Klinghoffer was murdered by his wife to make the PLO look
bad. When a London court convicted Nizar al-Hindawi, a Syrian
agent, of trying to blow up an El Al passenger plane,
Damascus responded by accusing the Israeli authorities of
planting the lethal device on their own airplane.
   Middle Eastern politics gives new meaning to the phrase
"blame the victim." When nine Israelis lost their lives in an
assault on their bus in Egypt, a Jordanian paper accused
Mossad "of planning and carrying out this operation."
According to Palestinians, Scuds falling on Tel Aviv last
year were launched by the Israel Defense Forces to make
Saddam Hussein look bad.
   In this spirit, the PLO has long painted Abu Nidal as an
Israeli agent. Now Mr. Seale brings this preposterous
accusation to a Western audience. For this we have little to
be thankful.
   A second aspect of this book bears mention. In contrast to
Yossi Melman, whose 1986 study, "The Master Terrorist: The
True Story Behind Abu Nidal," has a tentative, modest
quality, Mr. Seale claims to know nearly everything about Abu
Nidal and his supersecret organization. Whereas Mr. Melman
devoted an entire chapter just to considering whether Abu
Nidal was still alive, Mr. Seale provides many vivid
anecdotes to establish the cowardice, sycophancy and sadism
of Abu Nidal's character. The specificity in Mr. Seale's book
is astounding: He knows about safe houses, financial
accounts, torture methods, pseudonyms and organizational
hierarchies. In one section, he outlines agreements the
Belgian and French governments made with Abu Nidal. We even
learn about Abu Nidal's miserliness: how he tried to save
money by buying underwear for his members' wives in bulk; and
how he derailed an important meeting by asking why someone at
a training camp threw away a kilo of perfectly edible
tomatoes.
   If reliable, Mr. Seale's account of the Abu Nidal gang
amounts to an outstanding journalistic feat. But is it
trustworthy? Few outside the Abu Nidal organization can tell,
for Mr. Seale provides nary a footnote nor other means to
substantiate his story. Either you trust him or you don't. As
with so many other investigative reports, the credibility of
the text depends on the credibility of the author.
   In this reviewer's opinion, Mr. Seale fails the test.
Holding Israel responsible for Abu Nidal's homicidal career
raises such profound questions about the author's judgment
and agenda that his unverifiable account cannot be taken on
faith. There's simply no telling what's reliable and what's
not. Reading Mr. Seale's book means getting caught up in an
impossible task of separating fact from fiction. To
paraphrase Dorothy Parker, "Abu Nidal" is not an
investigative report to be tossed aside lightly. It should be
thrown with great force.
   ---
   Mr. Pipes, director of the Foreign Policy Research
Institute and its Middle East Council, is the author of
"Damascus Courts the West" (Washington Institute for Near
East Policy) and co-editor of "Friendly Tyrants: An American
Dilemma" (St. Martin's).
   (See related letter: "Letters to the Editor: An Apologist
for Syria Is Hardly `Respected'" -- WSJ March 10, 1992)
   920218-0167