Commodities:
   Tiny Finex Takes Big Step in Round-the-Clock Trading
   ----
   By Anita Raghavan
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
To be sure, Finex's system is far less ambitious and much
less costly to set up than Globex. But its customers are
taking notice.
   Michael Moss, president of Index Futures Group Inc., a
Chicago-based futures broker, says Index Futures has almost
doubled the volume of trading it does in the dollar index
contract since Finex extended its hours. "This is business we
wouldn't be able to do without the advantage of 24-hour
trading," he says.
   Mr. Moss isn't alone. In the first week of overnight
trading, average daily volume in Finex's most popular
contract, U.S. dollar index futures, jumped 62% from the
average daily turnover during this year's first two months.
Of the first-week volume, 30% occurred during the overnight
session.
   Finex trading runs from 7 p.m. Eastern time to 10 p.m.,
then breaks while traders in Tokyo go to lunch. It resumes
again at 11:30 p.m. and continues through till 3 p.m. the
next day. The exchange is closed from 3 p.m. Friday to 7 p.m.
Sunday. "Overnight" volume counts contracts traded in the
evening session and in the period between 11:30 p.m. and
8:19:59 a.m.
   Though exchange officials say they can't tell how much of
the overnight volume is new business, anecdotal evidence
suggests that some of it is.
   Hunt Taylor, managing director at Duich Investment Co., a
San Francisco commodity trading adviser, had personally
traded the dollar-index contract even before the exchange
went to round-the-clock trading.
   But "we had never put clients into the index," says Mr.
Taylor, who is also a member of Finex's board, "basically
because we needed the opportunity to execute trades during
the European and Asian trading time zones." Mr. Taylor says
the company felt it was "imprudent" for it to take risk on
the behalf of clients when it "couldn't liquidate a position
if breaking news like the Gorbachev coup happened outside of
our time zones."
   Since Finex has extended its hours, Mr. Taylor's company
has started doing business in the dollar index contract on
behalf of clients.
   Though on average about 30% of the exchange's total volume
in the dollar index contract has been coming from the night
session, it has accounted for almost half on some days. For
instance, on March 5, the day before the February employment
report, volume in the overnight session surged to 46%.
   Peter Borish, director of research at Tudor Investment
Corp., a large commodity trading adviser that trades the
dollar index contract, says on days when there are important
economic reports due out, the overnight session "gives you
the opportunity to take advantage {of the situation} or
square your positions." Incidentally, the head of Tudor
Investment, Paul Tudor Jones, is chairman of Finex -- a
circumstance that some industry observers say contributes to
the small exchange's success.
   Unlike the computer-terminal trading to be offered on the
Globex system, whose start-up has slipped to "sometime this
year," Finex's round-the-clock trading venture relies solely
on "open outcry." Brokers yell out bids and offers to find
appropriate levels at which to execute trades.
   "Most futures markets are assumed to be made liquid by
locals," says Richard Jaycobs, managing director at Finex.
Locals are floor traders who, in trading frequently for their
own accounts, often provide the opposite sides of trade
orders coming into a market from off the floor. But in the
wee hours on Finex, Mr. Jaycobs says, "you don't have any
locals."
   To ensure that traders can find somebody ready to do
business in the night session, two companies act as market
makers. Chicago Research  Trading Group Ltd. and Geldermann
Associate Partners have pledged to buy or sell a minimum
number of contracts at a specified difference between the bid
and ask prices at all times.
   At some periods during the night, particularly between 4
a.m. and 8 a.m., when the London foreign exchange market is
open and the New York market is starting to wake up, many of
the brokers on the Finex night patrol say the markets are
"very tight," meaning small differences between the bid and
ask prices.
   "I was actually surprised -- a couple of nights somebody
yelled out: `It's a tighter market than during the day,'"
says Michael Mareneck, a floor trader for M.One, a brokerage
concern.
   However, some in the industry say the extended trading
hours has made the dollar index contract more attractive only
to smaller and medium-sized commodity trading advisers, not
the big ones. These big players have accounts large enough to
trade through big international banks.
   "When you've got the interbank market, why do you need the
dollar index?" asks Peter Matthews, chief portfolio
strategist at Mint Investment Management Co.
   Looking ahead to commodity markets this week:
                                                                                                       

   Energy
                                                                                                       

   Iraq will be in the news again this week, and oil markets
are likely to react. United Nations and Iraqi representatives
are to meet in Vienna Thursday to renew discussions on a U.N.
proposal that would allow Iraq an emergency sale of oil for
humanitarian purposes.
   If it appears that the talks aren't going to resolve the
Iraq-U.N. standoff over terms of the sale, petroleum prices
may firm up again. But any indication that the U.N. ban on
Iraqi oil exports may be lifted, even temporarily, could
drive down prices. "A resumption of oil exports by Iraq --
however unlikely -- would shake the markets to their
foundations," reported the London-based Energy Compass.
   A sample of the bearish impact Iraq can have on oil
markets came Friday. News that it agreed to U.N. demands on
weapons destruction sent oil futures sharply lower in both
New York and London. On the New York Mercantile Exchange, the
expiring April crude contract fell 39 cents to $18.90 a
barrel. May crude dropped 38 cents to $19.09 a barrel. Some
brokers said the sell-off, which reversed last week's upward
price trend, may spill over into today's trading.
   Another Persian Gulf producer, Iran, may share in the
attention of oil analysts this week. The Weekly Petroleum
Argus will report today that, after a review by Iran's
President Rafsanjani, National Iranian Oil Co. is to lose its
monopoly over the country's oil sector because of mistakes
made in marketing oil. "Meanwhile, Gholamreza Aghazadeh's
future as oil minister remains uncertain and is unlikely to
be resolved until after Iran's elections" on April 10, the
London-based oil industry publication will report.
                                                                                                       

   Copper
                                                                                                       

   Futures prices ended last week on a bearish note. The May
contract fell 1.15 cents a pound Friday to $1.0080. William
O'Neill, senior futures analyst for Merrill Lynch Futures in
New York, says that over the past few weeks copper order
books that had been fairly full during February have started
to thin noticeably "because both North American and Far
Eastern users reduced their demand for physical copper."
   In addition, he notes that copper from the former Soviet
Union, the Commonwealth of Independent States, is starting to
appear in the West. "We can reasonably expect to see as much
as 25,000 tons show up in London warehouse stocks in the
coming weeks," says Mr. O'Neill. He explains that the
availability of this additional copper could easily offset
the "good news from increased housing starts in the U.S." He
also notes that the labor unrest in Peru that resulted in a
two-day strike last week has been resolved, at least for now.
   Mr. O'Neill says that he sees the market continuing under
pressure this week with the May contract finding support at
around 99 cents and meeting resistance at about $1.0150. "I
believe that this short-term shakeout offers a good buying
opportunity for copper bulls who are looking toward a
stronger third and fourth quarter," he says.
                                                                                                       

   Livestock and Meats
                                                                                                       

   The Agriculture Department is expected to report Friday
that the nation's hog and pig herd is continuing to expand at
a rapid rate.
   Dan Vaught, a livestock analyst at A.G. Edwards  Sons,
said he expects the government's quarterly survey to show
that the U.S. pork population is 5% larger compared with a
year ago.
   The outlook for expanding supplies of pork has helped
depress prices of hog futures contracts this year. The report
is also expected to show that the number of pigs born from
December to February increased 7% compared with the
year-earlier period.
   The cattle market, meanwhile, continues to face relatively
tight supplies for fattened animals. A monthly seven-state
feedlot survey released by the Agriculture Department after
the close of trading Friday showed that 8% fewer cattle were
being fattened for slaughter on March 1 compared with the
year-ago date.
   However, cattle prices might come under pressure at the
open of trading today because the survey detected a 1% rise
in the number of young cattle placed onto feedlots in
February compared with the year-earlier month. The report
substantiates recent speculation that the rise in cattle
prices this year is beginning to encourage feedlot owners to
fatten more animals for slaughter.