Ex-Nixon Adviser,
   Gibson, Is Indicted
   On Fraud Charges
   ----
   By Christi Harlan
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The indictment, returned here Wednesday, alleges that Mr.
Gibson defrauded American Airlines of more than $200,000 of
air travel by switching boarding passes from valid, full-fare
tickets to expired discount tickets. Mr. Gibson later
obtained refunds for the unused full-fare tickets, according
to the indictment.
   The indictment also alleges that Mr. Gibson, while
chairman and chief executive officer of American Federal
Bank, Dallas, fraudulently obtained reimbursement from the
thrift for more than $43,000 in full-fare tickets that he
hadn't used.
   Mr. Gibson, who, as head of American Federal, had been an
advocate of ethics codes to restore the credibility of
fraud-riddled thrifts, said the charges are a "crazy"
outgrowth of "a business disagreement with American Airlines.
They're talking about tickets I paid for that American
accepted."
   Mr. Gibson, 47 years old, filed suit against American
Airlines in state court in Dallas last November after he was
arrested in August at Dallas/Fort Worth International Airport
as he prepared to board an American Airlines flight to
Chicago. The suit seeks damages for his mental anguish over
his arrest and for cancellation of his frequent-flier mileage
credits, valued at $80,000.
   American Airlines, a unit of Fort Worth-based AMR Corp.,
denied any impropriety in its dealings with Mr. Gibson,
according to the air carrier's responses to the lawsuit.
   Acquaintances of Mr. Gibson repeatedly called the charges
"bizarre." The 47-year-old economist held high-ranking
positions with Chase Manhattan Bank; Smith Barney, Harris
Upham  Co.; and McGrawHill Inc. before coming to Dallas as
senior vice president of the now-defunct RepublicBank Corp.
Mr. Gibson then spent two years as executive vice president
of the then-Continental Illinois National Bank before
returning to Dallas as chairman and chief executive of
American Federal, which was formed out of the remains of 12
defunct Texas thrifts. Mr. Gibson resigned in 1990, for
reasons that neither he nor the company ever explained.
   The charge in the indictment that relates to American
Federal, Mr. Gibson said, arises from expense-account
disputes with the thrift. "Who doesn't have something in an
expense account that could be questioned?" he asked. Mr.
Gibson, who was paid $300,000 a year by American Federal,
left the thrift in January 1990 and formed Gibson Financial
Inc., a consulting and merchant banking firm with offices in
Dallas and Northbrook, Ill.
   A spokeswoman for American Federal's parent, Lone Star
Technologies Inc., said the thrift wouldn't have any comment.
   (See related letter: "Letters to the Editor: I'm Fighting
Back To Clear My Name" -- WSJ March 17, 1992)
   920214-0097