Business Bulletin:
   A Special Background Report
   On Trends in Industry
   And Finance
   ----
   By Suein L. Hwang
Also, uncovering genes and the proteins they produce will
keep biotech excitement brewing. Several labs seek a gene for
inherited breast cancer, while biotech firm Oncor develops
early-detection kits based on cancer genes. Immunex and
Synergen test new drugs, for asthma and other ills, that
block the immune system.
   Cor Therapeutics studies proteins to prevent arteries from
reclogging after a heart attack.
                                                                                                       

   HOT, HOT, HOT: Fire-alarm foods spice up future cuisine.
   Experts expect warming trends to continue, as Americans
seek new challenges for their fickle palates. Martin J.
Friedman, editor of Gorman's New Product News, says spicy
salsas zoomed past ketchup to become the most popular
condiment. His prediction: salsa-flavored ketchups. Caribbean
food gains popularity, with jerk sauces popping up in trendy
gourmet food shops. "Baby Boomers are more adventurous than
the previous generation," says Robert Spiegel of Chile Pepper
Magazine. An added bonus: Peppers add zing but not fat.
   Niche marketers profit nicely from the heat wave: Chile
Pepper posted a 71% jump in circulation to 60,000 last year.
And Mo Hotta-Mo Betta, a catalog of incinerating foodstuffs,
reports a 300% jump in retail sales since 1989 by touting
such delicacies as jalapeno suckers, chile pistachio nuts and
Japanese wasabi chips.
                                                                                                       

   CREDIT CARD rates should drop in 1992, but slightly, and
they'll vary widely.
   Despite the general decline in interest rates, "banks are
not going to lower {theirs} across the board," says Donald
Auriemma, an industry consultant. "They'll do more segment
marketing," tailoring various cards to spending habits.
Citicorp, the largest issuer, offers six credit cards with
varying rates and perks. For people who like benefits such as
a lowest-price guarantee on purchases, the bank offers a
19.8% "Classic" card. But for the rate-sensitive, Citicorp
has the no-frills "Choice" card with a rate of 14.9% for
balances over $1,300 and 16.9% for balances under that.
   Some card issuers are following Citicorp's lead in
tailored services, trying to retain customers who might
defect to a lower rate card. Others, taking advantage of the
recent legislative brouhaha over high rates, are vying to
steal away customers with rock-bottom rate offers. Wachovia
Corp. entices new customers with a 10.4% card. But the Nilson
Report cautions that issuers of low-rate cards are highly
selective.
   David Robertson, president of the industry newsletter,
says 90% of applicants can expect to be rejected.
                                                                                                       

   TEETERING ON THE BRINK, many magazines will struggle in
1992. City and regional publications are hard hit:
Regardie's, a satirical business publication, now seeks
subscribers to stay alive. Rumors circulate about New York
Woman, which was put up for sale by parent American Express
Co.
                                                                                                       

   RECESSION COLOGNE gets cold shoulder. Alan Salzbank,
options trader-cum-cocreator of "Marquette De Cline's
Recession (owe de cologne/poor hombre)," blames slower sales
on sourpuss retailers. "Some stores felt it really wasn't a
joke anymore," explains a distribution executive of the
$15-a-bottle concoction.
                                                                                                       

   MADONNANOMICS: Pop hits predict consumer confidence, says
Columbia University researcher Harold Zullow: "Pessimistic
rumination in popular songs predict decreased economic growth
with a one- to two-year lead." Evidence: Cher's early 1990
hit "If I Could Turn Back Time."
                                                                                                       

   UTILITY RATES will be flat next year, but hikes are on the
horizon.
   Most gas and electric utilities expect little or no rate
increases in 1992 due to stable fuel prices and low interest
rates. California's Pacific Gas & Electric expects to lower
gas rates slightly while Duke Power, Charlotte, N.C.,
forecasts no changes. "Any increase {power companies} might
charge would be lower than inflation," says Michael Foley of
the National Association of Regulatory Utility Commissioners.
   But bigger increases are expected in the next few years as
environmental laws toughen. "Companies will be spending more
on environmental equipment and {they're} going to have to ask
for sharper rate relief," says Ernest S. Liu, analyst at
Goldman Sachs. New Jersey-based Public Service Electric & Gas
recently filed for 14.9% and 10.7% boosts in electric and gas
partly to cover such costs as possible cleanup of former gas
facilities.
   American Telephone & Telegraph boosts some long-distance
rates, reversing a trend begun in 1984.
                                                                                                       

   BRIEFS: Frequent flyers needing a slight boost rent cars
for one minute (but pay for a full day) to gain additional
bonus miles, reports Dollar Rent A Car. . . . McDonald's
restaurants in New York City keep selling subway tokens at
$1.15, despite the fare hike to $1.25. The catch: You gotta
buy a meal.