International:
   World Wire
   ----
   Compiled by Richard L. Holman
The Japanese business daily Nihon Keizai Shimbun said it
concluded an investigation of allegations by the Osaka
prosecutor's office that a Nikkei employee received a 10
million yen ($78,930) bribe from Itoman  Co.
   Nikkei said Jan. 31 that its internal inquiry hadn't
turned up evidence of such a bribe and that it had asked the
prosecutor's office, which hadn't disclosed any names, to
identify the alleged recipient.
   The paper said that the prosecutor's office advised it
couldn't answer Nikkei's request, and that this had deepened
the paper's belief no one received the cash.
   In December at a trial involving former top Itoman
executives, the prosecutor alleged the trading firm made the
payment through a collaborator in exchange for leaked
information on the Itoman case from the Nikkei employee.
Itoman faced collapse last year from speculative real estate
and art investments that resulted in debt exceeding $7.89
billion and charges of breach of trust against some of its
former top officials.
                                                                                                       

   EC NATIONS' JOBLESS DATA
                                                                                                       

   Seasonally adjusted unemployment in the 12 European
Community countries in December was 9.2%, unchanged from
November but up from 8.4% a year earlier. The EC nations with
the highest unemployment rates in December were Ireland with
16.7%, down 0.1 percentage point from November, and Spain
with 16.2%, unchanged. Luxembourg recorded the lowest level,
2%, down 0.1 point. EC joblessness for 1991 is estimated at
8.9%, up from 8.3% a year earlier. Britain accounted for 36%
of the increase in the number of unemployed people in the EC.
                                                                                                       

   HORSE-RACING COMEBACK IN CHINA?
                                                                                                       

   More than four decades after China's horse racing tracks
were closed, the sport is poised for a comeback. Guangdong
province in southern China plans to build a track "with
Chinese characteristics" near Guangzhou, the provincial
capital. As gambling is illegal in China, local officials are
emphasizing recreational and public welfare benefits, and
they intend to offer prizes such as color television sets
rather than cash winnings. Betting profits could help finance
public projects, such as road and railway construction.
Organizers hope to attract foreign fans, especially those
from Hong Kong.
                                                                                                       

   BONN TACKLES INVESTMENT BARRIER
                                                                                                       

   Bonn, in a bid to speed the pace of eastern Germany's
economic upturn, intends to propose legislation that could
overturn one of the barriers to investment in the region. The
plan calls for former owners of expropriated eastern German
property to file claims within 14 days of its sale;
thereafter, the new investor could claim title. Ownership
issues have bogged down efforts to attract investment to
eastern Germany.
                                                                                                       

   JAPAN LAUNCHES `GREEN' SATELLITE
                                                                                                       

   Tokyo launched its first environmental survey satellite.
The Japan Earth Resources Satellite-1 will observe weather
patterns and changes in the Earth's surface, such as
destruction of the Amazon rain forest. The satellite is to
orbit for two years at an altitude of 353 miles.
                                                                                                       

   MANILA CLEARS IMF HURDLE
                                                                                                       

   An International Monetary Fund review group has approved
the Philippines' economic performance, clearing the way for
the restructuring of more than $5 billion in commercial-bank
debt.
   The move, based on deficit-containment measures, also
permits Manila to reschedule more than $400 million in
low-interest government-to-government loans that come due
this year.
   IMF board approval later this month would let the
Philippines proceed with already negotiated plans with
commercial lenders to revamp nearly all of the country's
commercial debt. Accomplishing this before the May elections,
an IMF aide said, would allow the new administration to focus
on domestic problems.
   The IMF action also releases about $100 million of agency
funding for the Philippines this year. The IMF is Manila's
most important creditor, because other lenders wait for the
agency to work out terms for its funding before they extend
their own money. The IMF last August suspended its lending to
Manila when it failed to meet economic targets.
                                                                                                       

   POSTSCRIPTS . . .
                                                                                                       

   In line with other former Soviet republics, Belarus
applied for membership in the International Monetary Fund. .
. . South Korea ranked No. 10 world-wide last year in energy
consumption, which exceeded 100 million tons of oil
equivalent for the first time. Consumption of primary energy,
such as petroleum, coal and atomic energy, rose 10% from 1990
to the equivalent of 103.4 million tons of oil, or 757.8
million barrels. . . . Mongolia, which is converting to a
market economy, got Asian Development Bank approval for a
technical assistance grant of $600,000 to study the
feasibility of building an airport in Ulan Bator, the
capital.