Welfare Reform, California Style
   ----
   By Debra J. Saunders
The numbers in California tell the story.
   -- One in five of those receiving Aid to Families with
Dependent Children has been on aid for eight years or more.
And that's a statistic welfare boosters often use to defend
the current system.
   -- It doesn't pay to work. A 1991 report by the bipartisan
state Legislative Analyst's Office noted that the system's
incentives "could induce (individuals who have never been on
AFDC) to go on welfare rather than work."
   -- The Legislative Analyst's Office also found that the
state's workfare program would work best if it prepared
recipients "for jobs paying more than $1,400 per month."
Those who took jobs that paid $1,200 a month, it noted, would
be "worse off by $150" (their italics) per month.
   -- The state has learned that 32% of women on AFDC
conceive and have children after going on aid.
   -- Without changes in the welfare system and demographic
trends, the governor's Office of Finance expects the ratio of
taxpayers to recipients of AFDC to drop from 6.21:1 in 1990
to 2.94:1 in 2000.
   -- California's high benefit level appears to have been a
welfare magnet for some. Until recently, state AFDC benefits
for a family of three were $693 a month, the second highest
in the nation. Now, at $663, they are the fifth highest --
far greater than the $381 that represents the average grant
in the nine other most populous states. The state Health and
Welfare Agency believes about 7% of current AFDC recipients
lived in another state within 12 months of starting aid here.
Approximately half of that 7% were on aid immediately prior
to moving to California -- which makes them probable welfare
shoppers; the price tag for these likely shoppers: $100
million.
   These statistics explain the logic of Gov. Pete Wilson's
proposed voter initiative, dubbed the Taxpayer Protection Act
of 1992. It would limit AFDC grants for newcomers to what
they received in their home state. As Health and Welfare
Agency spokeswoman Kassy Perry recently put it, the
administration understands that there are a certain number of
individuals who come to California "to take advantage of our
generosity in terms of cash benefits," and while that may be
"their own way of searching for a better life" (36% of the
new caseload arrivals come from the 10 lowest benefit
states), California can no longer afford to fund it.
   The governor's initiative also boasts of work incentives.
Initially it would cut all grants by 10%. After six months,
able-bodied recipients who failed to find a job would suffer
an additional 15% cut. Still, while cutting a family of
three's benefits to $507 after six months (which would be
augmented by food stamps and MediCal), it would allow
families to keep money earned from a part-time or full-time
job -- to an amount beyond the $693 that family earned before
last year's welfare cuts. Food stamps would increase
regardless of whether the parent works.
   The initiative also would try to take away incentives that
lead teen-age children to start families they cannot support.
Teen-age mothers would receive an extra $50 each month for
staying in school, and face a like cut for dropping out.
What's more, minors would receive support only if they remain
at home, unless their parents are deemed abusive or unfit.
Payments would go directly to the (grand)parents.
   A provision similar to part of New Jersey's new welfare
plan would freeze benefits so that parents would not receive
higher grants for children conceived after the parents began
receiving AFDC. Gov. Wilson has called the present system of
increasing the grant for each child an "insidious incentive,"
although it probably would be more accurate to say such
increases simply eliminated a disincentive.
   The one growth area about which the initiative does
nothing (because of court decisions, it can't) is that of
illegal aliens and those seeking legal citizenship.
   Illegal aliens can slip over the border and receive free
prenatal care. When their children are born in the U.S. (on
the U.S. taxpayers' dime), those children become citizens and
automatically can be enrolled for AFDC. With half of the
nation's illegal immigrants and a third of all refugees,
California already shoulders a large burden. And as the
economy sours, hurting immigrants who came here to work, the
number of citizen children of illegal parents on AFDC in Los
Angeles County alone rose from 97,665 in February 1991 to
121,042 in November.
   Meanwhile, the Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986
is about to increase the number of immigrant adults eligible
for benefits. A 1990 report by the County Welfare Directors
Association estimates that California could expect more than
100,000 new people on AFDC after May 1992 and May 1993, when
provisions expire that prohibit adult applicants for
citizenship under the amnesty program from receiving benefits
for themselves.
   The state has beefed up its efforts to go after deadbeat
dads and the unwed fathers of AFDC children. The AFDC
recoupment rate for 1989-90 was a mere 5.9% in the Golden
State. Since then, the state and counties have begun
notifying credit agencies when support is overdue;
garnishments of wages and tax rebates are being utilized more
aggressively, as they should be.
   It should be noted that while welfare advocates cite a
lack of jobs as a cause of caseload increases, California's
dependency rate grew in the 1980s even when unemployment
declined significantly. California's dependency rate remained
at 8.8% from 1979 to 1989, when the national rate fell from
6.5% to 6.1% and the state's AFDC benefits were the nation's
second highest.
   Expect the Wilson initiative, once it qualifies for the
November ballot, to play a prominent role in the coming
elections -- presidential and state. The initiative, which
also includes a number of budgetary reforms, is sure to come
up as George Bush and the Democratic gaggle pass through
California -- especially since many provisions require
federal waivers.
   In his State of the Union address, the president pledged
to support such waivers. His rationale -- that "welfare was
never meant to be a life style" -- is one no doubt shared by
many taxpayers. It is that belief, not poor-bashing -- as New
York Gov. Mario Cuomo has suggested -- that explains the
appeal of welfare reform.
   With the retirement of Alan Cranston and the special
election for the seat vacated when Mr. Wilson became
governor, California has two competitive U.S. Senate races
this year. All five Democrats in the Senate races have signed
on to part of the initiative -- usually the provision to
lower benefits for newcomers -- or its concept. One Democrat,
Lt. Gov. Leo McCarthy, even repackaged the newcomer limit and
displayed it in his own initiative proposal. As Gov. Wilson
wryly noted, "I have noticed that people who earlier would
not have been caught dead saying anything like what they are
saying now are saying yes, welfare does require reform."
   Indeed, the Democrat-controlled Legislature just might
agree to enact some of Gov. Wilson's proposals in order to
head off placement on the ballot.
   And while many might expect this initiative to endear
hard-line conservatives to Gov. Wilson, it might backfire.
For one thing, the hard right hates him, no matter what he
does. For another, the lack of a grant for additional
children is considered an inducement to abortion by pro-life
organizations. (In California, AFDC moms automatically are
eligible for state-paid abortions.)
   But Gov. Wilson does expect this initiative to appeal to
California voters, for the simple reason that hard times and
a history of runaway spending have left the state with the
hard choice of cutting welfare or schools. It's either that
or annual tax hikes.
   Not even the most optimistic welfare advocate can believe
that Californians would agree to pay higher taxes so the
state can continue to boast the nation's fifth highest
welfare benefits.
   ---
   Ms. Saunders is a columnist and editorial writer for the
Los Angeles Daily News.