Motown Stunner:
   How a Deadlock Led
   Chrysler to Go Outside
   For Its New Chairman
   ---
   Board Turned to GM's Eaton,
   Rejecting Bid of Iacocca,
   Who Vows to Fade Away
   ---
   A Different Style: `I'm Me'
   ----
   By Bradley A. Stertz and Paul Ingrassia
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
The impasse led to Saturday's dramatic special board
meeting in New York, in which Mr. Iacocca asked the board one
last time to let him stay on. But instead, around midnight,
the board decided on the 52-year-old Mr. Eaton, a
well-regarded engineer who has run General Motors Corp.'s
hugely successful European business since June 1988.
   It was a stunning decision, even though word of Mr.
Eaton's impending selection began to leak late last week.
Detroit is a clannish company town, and the Big Three auto
makers hardly ever raid each other to find a new chief
executive. The last time anything even remotely like that
happened, in fact, was when Mr. Iacocca came to Chrysler in
1978 after being fired from Ford Motor Co., where he himself
had been passed over twice.
   Even more rarely do career GM executives with promising
futures jump ship to a rival auto maker. But Mr. Eaton
apparently concluded he was a long shot to become chairman or
president of GM, partly because he's just a year younger than
his boss at GM, John F. Smith Jr., vice chairman in charge of
international operations. Becoming chairman of Chrysler "is a
once-in-a-lifetime opportunity," Mr. Eaton said yesterday at
a press conference at Chrysler's headquarters.
   Mr. Eaton is a bright, engaging, forward-thinking
executive, but somewhat short of operating experience. He
comes to a company with a great deal of factionalism and a
history of churning in the executive suite, but a lot of good
products in the pipeline. Like any top executive brought in
from outside, he arrives without the kind of enemies insiders
make -- but without the friends, too.
   For their part, Mr. Iacocca and Mr. Lutz were all smiles
yesterday when Chrysler announced Mr. Eaton's appointment as
vice chairman and chief operating officer. He'll get the top
job on Jan. 1, when Mr. Iacocca, who will remain on the
board, steps down to become chairman of the company's
executive committee.
   "The board didn't find anything wrong with any of the many
candidates we looked at," Mr. Iacocca said. "We simply found
something very right about Bob Eaton." Mr. Eaton, who had
never set foot inside Chrysler's headquarters until
yesterday, said: "Having the chance to lead Chrysler at this
point in time has to be the best job in the whole auto
industry, period."
   The 60-year-old Mr. Lutz was gracious in defeat, declaring
that he would stay and work with Mr. Eaton. "Of course I'm
disappointed," he said. "Who wouldn't be under the
circumstances? But being a team player means that you don't
sulk or quit when the decision is made that somebody else
should be the captain of the team."
   It was a poignant moment for the veteran auto executive, a
former jet fighter pilot who loves fast cars and big cigars.
Until the middle of last week, say persons close to the
situation, Mr. Lutz was convinced he had enough votes on the
Chrysler board to be named Mr. Iacocca's successor. But Mr.
Lutz was stunned in the middle of last week, sources say, to
find the tide turning against him.
   The poignancy was only heightened because Mr. Lutz was
enduring the same pain that Mr. Iacocca himself lived
through. In 1968, Henry Ford II passed him over for Ford's
presidency and turned instead to Semon E. "Bunkie" Knudsen, a
GM executive who lasted 18 months before Mr. Ford fired him.
A decade later, Mr. Iacocca was Ford's president, but Mr.
Ford tapped Philip Caldwell as vice chairman and heir
apparent before finally firing Mr. Iacocca months later.
   "This is like deja vu for me," Mr. Iacocca, himself now
playing the role of Henry Ford II, said yesterday. "Fourteen
years ago I sat at the table with Henry Ford and another guy
{Mr. Caldwell}. It's tough. There's only one winner and only
one runner-up. I've gone through that. I've lived through
that. But Bob {Lutz} is not only a good soldier, he's a damn
good auto man, and this is his life."
   One question now is whether Mr. Eaton might meet at
Chrysler the same fate that Mr. Knudsen met at Ford, where
Mr. Iacocca's allies rallied against him and rendered him
ineffective. But Chrysler has given Mr. Eaton an employment
contract that presumably includes financial and other
guarantees. The contract, say people familiar with it, also
includes a strict definition of Mr. Iacocca's duties as
chairman of the executive committee.
   Mr. Iacocca didn't specify those duties yesterday, but
said: "I won't be a big force around here. I'm out of here."
He added that he doesn't intend to appear in Chrysler's
commercials after he retires.
   Mr. Eaton said he isn't likely to appear in commercials
either, or to otherwise emulate Mr. Iacocca's personal appeal
to the public. "Lee's Lee and I'm me, and we're a bit
different," Mr. Eaton said yesterday. "All the things that
he's gone through to build this company, and previous to that
at his time at Ford, gave him a national position that I
don't aspire to, and probably will never have." (Mr.
Iacocca's celebrity status was spotlighted just yesterday, in
fact, when his ex-wife Peggy appeared on the "Geraldo"
television show to complain about him.)
   The tale of how Mr. Eaton emerged from nowhere to become
Mr. Iacocca's successor began, in a large sense, six years
ago. That's when Mr. Lutz, once considered a top candidate to
run Ford, saw his star dimming there and, at Mr. Iacocca's
invitation, bolted to Chrysler.
   There he found himself the junior member of Chrysler's
six-man executive committee, all composed of former Ford
executives. Without a natural constituency inside Chrysler,
Mr. Lutz turned to the company's other newcomers -- engineers
and executives from American Motors Corp., which Chrysler
bought in 1987. Mr. Lutz promoted some key American Motors
officials over long-time Chrysler managers, building a cadre
of people loyal to himself, but angering many others in the
process.
   Meanwhile, one by one, all of the other senior Chrysler
executives quit except Mr. Iacocca. The most startling
departure was that of Mr. Greenwald, who left in 1990 to lead
an abortive employee buy-out of United Airlines, and then
found haven working on Wall Street. With Mr. Greenwald and
the others out of the way, Mr. Lutz found himself the chief
contender for the top job. But complications developed.
   For one thing, he never got along well with Mr. Iacocca.
While both men denied that significant tensions existed --
"It's crap, crap, spelled with a big C," Mr. Iacocca declared
yesterday -- dozens of current and former Chrysler officials
say otherwise. Mr. Iacocca, they say, resented what he viewed
as Mr. Lutz's effort to steal the limelight, especially for
Chrysler's new products.
   Another bone of contention: Mr. Lutz simply couldn't
conceal his eagerness to succeed Mr. Iacocca, and Mr. Iacocca
wanted to stay on as Chrysler's chairman indefinitely. That,
in fact, is why Mr. Greenwald got tired of waiting and quit.
   After that resignation, sources say, Chrysler's board
began to get impatient with Mr. Iacocca. His waffling on
succession planning became increasingly conspicuous. And he
embarrassed the board by having the company buy two of his
homes at a time when he was putting Chrysler employees
through draconian cost-cutting.
   Just over a year ago, the board believed it had found a
solution in Roger Penske, a race-car driver turned successful
entrepreneur. He was wooed by several key people, including
Mr. Iacocca, to join the company as Mr. Iacocca's successor.
But Mr. Penske balked when he sensed that Mr. Iacocca really
didn't want to leave.
   Then, sources say, Mr. Iacocca asked Mr. Penske to suggest
other candidates, possibly from GM, where Mr. Penske has
extensive ties. That's when Mr. Penske suggested Mr. Eaton,
among others.
   Mr. Iacocca said that, at one time or another, Chrysler
considered "a Dirty Dozen" of possible candidates from inside
and outside Chrysler. Prominent among them, he acknowledged
yesterday, was Mr. Greenwald. But sources say Mr. Greenwald
overplayed his hand by barraging board members with phone
calls and letters, seeking to return as Chrysler's chairman.
   Mr. Iacocca said yesterday that he first contacted Mr.
Eaton "several months ago." But their discussions didn't take
a serious turn until recently. After Mr. Eaton acknowledged
to the New York Times last week that he and Mr. Iacocca had
talked, both he and the company had to move quickly.
   All this set the stage for last weekend's board meeting in
New York. Mr. Eaton flew in on the Concorde from Europe,
where he had just attended the opening of GM's first assembly
plant in Hungary. Chrysler whisked him off to the
WaldorfAstoria Hotel, where key directors prepared to huddle
on Saturday in the company's luxurious 38th floor suite.
   The board's three-member nominating committee interviewed
Mr. Eaton, and liked what it saw and heard. Later that day,
all the outside directors gathered with Mr. Iacocca, and the
serious deliberations began.
   Mr. Iacocca expressed his support for Mr. Eaton as
Chrysler's next chief executive officer. The board agreed,
partly because of the risk of key defections if Mr. Lutz or
Mr. Greenwald got the job. But Mr. Iacocca also argued that
he himself should maintain a strong, high-profile role at
Chrysler, perhaps even retaining the title of chairman.
   That's when the board balked, because several directors
thought the company needed a fresh start with new leadership.
"It wasn't a problem between the board and Eaton or between
Eaton and Lee," says a person close to the board. "It was a
problem between Lee and the board."
   Finally, after midnight, the issue was resolved. Mr.
Iacocca wouldn't remain as chairman of the board, but would
stay as chairman of Chrysler's executive committee -- the
same post that Henry Ford II retained at Ford after he
retired.
   On Sunday, Mr. Iacocca flew back to Detroit to begin
meeting at his home with key Chrysler executives. Those
included a still-stunned Mr. Lutz, whom Mr. Iacocca
personally asked to stay on. "The board wanted to make sure
he'd stick around," Mr. Iacocca said yesterday.
   Mr. Eaton said he talked to GM Chairman Robert C. Stempel
about 5 p.m. on Sunday to inform him of the decision.
Afterward, Mr. Iacocca too talked to Mr. Stempel. "Stempel,
in his usual gracious way, said, `You're getting one hell of
a guy,'" Mr. Iacocca said yesterday. Mr. Stempel issued a
brief statement yesterday offering Mr. Eaton "best wishes on
his move to Chrysler."
   After the whirlwind of events that left Mr. Eaton as their
leader-to-be, Chrysler employees aren't quite sure what to
think. Managers who supported Mr. Lutz or Mr. Greenwald
cautiously say they like what they hear from Mr. Eaton --
perhaps because that's the politic thing to do just now.
   But these managers question Mr. Eaton's depth of
experience in running an entire corporation instead of a
unit. "It's a wait-and-see situation," says one engineering
staffer. "Right now everybody's happy that this uncertainty
is over. But we don't know anything about him."
   Mr. Eaton sought to soothe nerves yesterday. "We've got a
strong team here," he said. "I don't expect to have to
augment it with people from GM or from anywhere else."
   Mr. Eaton is a native of Buena Vista, Colo., and holds a
bachelor's degree in engineering from the University of
Kansas. He joined GM as a trainee in 1963 and worked his way
up the company's engineering ranks. "He's a rare combination
of a good businessman and a good engineer," says retired GM
Vice Chairman Howard Kehrl, Mr. Eaton's key mentor at GM.
   In 1982, Mr. Eaton became a vice president overseeing
advanced engineering, which included the development of
electric vehicles and GM's Saturn cars. He also was GM's star
witness in defending GM against government allegations that
the brakes in GM's so-called "X cars" were unsafe. After a
lengthy trial, GM prevailed.
   Mr. Eaton's lack of operating experience led the company
to send him to Europe in 1988. By then, GM's remarkable
turnaround of its once-troubled European operations was well
underway. But Mr. Eaton has overseen GM's rapid thrust into
Eastern Europe, where the company is far ahead of archrival
Ford. It isn't clear whom GM will name to succeed him.
   One thing Mr. Eaton never encountered at GM is the rugged
style of executive-suite politics that he's likely to find at
Chrysler. His relationships there are certain to be
complicated by the continuing role of Mr. Iacocca.
   "At some point, Eaton will want to go left and Lee will
think the company should go right," says one person close to
the company. "Then the board will have to decide whether the
new chairman will really get what he wants."
   ---
   Timothy Aeppel in Bonn contributed to this article.