Potomac Watch:
   The Candidates'
   `Middle Class'
   Confidence Game
   ----
   By Paul A. Gigot
If all of this sounds too good to be true, that's because
it is. Upon inspection, the "middle-class" theme turns out to
be another product of the modern political art of polling.
More significant, the goodies the politicians are promising
for the middle class will inevitably be paid for by the same,
well, middle class. This is because, as Willie Sutton said
about banks, "that's where the money is."
   Consider the Clinton campaign, if only because it's the
most fanatical about a middlemarch. The governor didn't wake
up in Little Rock one night with this passion for middle
America; he found it in a poll. Specifically, he found it in
polls and "focus groups" conducted by his current adviser and
Democratic pied-piper, Stanley Greenberg.
   For years now the ingenious Mr. Greenberg has been
flogging his middle-class theme as the Democrats' path out of
the presidential wilderness. In September 1988 he wrote an
influential analysis for the Dukakis campaign, "Speaking
Middle Class." It reported on five focus groups with voters
in Fresno and other California garden spots. His advice
didn't work in 1988 (Mr. Dukakis took it late), but it's
since become conventional wisdom among party strategists.
   "The primary challenge for Democrats," Mr. Greenberg wrote
in last fall's issue of The American Prospect magazine (the
new intellectual bulletin-board of American liberalism), "is
the rediscovery of the forgotten middle class." (Mr. Clinton
apparently knows a good phrase when he reads one; just don't
tell Joe Biden.)
   "The derailing of the conservative alliance in 1990 could
turn into a real crackup," Mr. Greenberg wrote, referring to
the 1990 Bush-Congress budget deal, "if middle-class and
populist voters were to focus on the unreality of their
`shared interests' with the winners in the 1980s." This means
associating Republicans with "the rich," playing down
Democratic support for the "have-nots," but smothering the
"middle class" with gifts like a passionate suiter.
   This may be a plausible strategy in theory, but it begins
to look like a confidence game in practice. The centerpiece
of Mr. Clinton's 15-page economic agenda is -- what else? --
"tax relief for the forgotten middle class."
   That would be appealing by itself, but then Mr. Clinton
adds the kicker: "We should cut middle-class taxes
immediately by 10%, and pay for it with higher income taxes
on those earning more than $200,000." He also proposes a big
new $800 tax credit per child, not to mention "health care
for every American," a "domestic GI bill" for college
tuition, and other nice things.
   What working stiff could object to this, right? Well, hold
the class warfare. It turns out that Mr. Clinton's idea is
based on work by Robert Shapiro, a sharp Democratic economist
for the Progressive Policy Institute. The fine print in his
work tells a different story.
   Mr. Shapiro's proposed new top tax rate of 38.5% (from 31%
now) would actually start biting at taxable income of $90,000
for singles and $120,000 for heads of households. That's
starting to get close to a lot of people who feel
"middle-class," as New Jersey Gov. Jim Florio found out when
he tried to raise their taxes.
   Moreover, even that huge hike in tax rates would raise
only about $23 billion or so in new tax revenue -- a bucket
in the ocean of a $1.5 trillion federal budget. And even this
piddling amount assumes, against all human experience, that
no one paying the higher rate will change behavior to shelter
income.
   The point is that to pay for his middle-class giveaways
Mr. Clinton would sooner or later have to cut spending more
than he's proposed, or else raise taxes on more than the few
saps who make more than $90,000. And guess who that means?
   According to IRS numbers decoded by the Tax Foundation, in
1989 a taxpayer was among the top 5% of all taxpayers -- the
richest Americans -- with an adjusted gross income of only
$77,600. The top 25% threshold was crossed at taxable income
of a mere $37,064. That probably includes every working
American couple, who certainly wouldn't consider themselves
"rich." Concludes Paul Merski of the Tax Foundation: "To
raise any real money, you have to go to the middle class."
   Mr. Clinton is assuming that "middleclass" voters somehow
won't figure all this out. But don't be so sure. Karlyn
Keene, who follows public opinion for the American Enterprise
Institute, says most Americans say they'd like a
"middle-class" tax cut, but few expect ever to get it. By
this November middle-class voters may have heard enough
promises that they'd just as soon be "forgotten" once again.