Your Money Matters -- Coping With Hard Times:
   If Ax Falls, Know Your Benefits, Rights,
   And Don't Forget the Art of Negotiation
   ----
   By Lynn Asinof
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
If you've just become a statistic in the avalanche of
layoffs, early retirements and corporate failures, take a
deep breath: You're about to enter the world of unemployment
insurance, severance pay and COBRA.
   "People who are working in big corporations should
understand that when and if the ax falls, they are going to
enter a legal and financial maze they can never have
imagined," says Dan Lacey, editor of Workplace Trends
newsletter, Cleveland, and author of the book "Your Rights in
the Workplace."
   Right from the start, it is important to understand what
your options are, what benefits you are entitled to and how
much room there is for negotiation. Indeed, the maze begins
before you even get out the door, since the benefits you're
eligible for will depend greatly on how you actually leave.
   You may not get unemployment insurance, for example, if
you quit to take the company's offer of improved severance,
even if you know you'll lose your job anyway.
   Moreover, you may be able to negotiate for a variety of
benefits ranging from buying the company car to working for
the company as a consultant. Don't focus on "preserving your
job, but preserving as many of your benefits as you can,"
says E. Webb Bassick, an executive-compensation consultant
with Hewitt Associates, Lincolnshire, Ill.
   Here are some of the issues the newly unemployed are
likely to confront:
                                                                                                       

   SEVERANCE PAY. The basic rule of thumb is one week's pay
for one year's service. But when large numbers of employees
are cut, that may be raised to two or three weeks' pay, often
with a twomonth or three-month minimum regardless of service.
And if you're an executive, you're likely to get more.
   It is unlikely you will be able to increase the amount of
your severance, but how you get paid is often negotiable.
Many companies offer either a lump-sum payment or a
continuation of salary. Which is better? That depends.
   "Cash is worth more to you up front than spread out over a
period of time," and reduces worry over the future financial
health of the company, says Robert Clarfeld, president of
Clarfeld  Co., a New York accounting and financial planning
firm. "But continuation of regular salary payments may allow
for continuation of full benefits," such as health insurance,
and may let additional time be credited to retirement
programs.
   However paid, severance money should be kept liquid, since
it will be needed to pay living expenses until you find
another job. "A severance package is not something that
should become part of your long-term investment portfolio,"
says Steven Enright, a financial planner from River Vale,
N.J.
                                                                                                       

   UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE. While eligibility has been
expanding in many states, so have the number of companies
challenging unemployment insurance claims, says Workplace
Trends' Mr. Lacey. So before you accept an offer of increased
severance in exchange for your resignation, make sure you
calculate what you might lose in unemployment insurance.
   Unemployment insurance, however, won't bring in a lot of
money. Calculation of benefits, which vary from state to
state, are usually based on a percentage of wages and payable
for 26 weeks. But maximums typically are less than $300 a
week and many are well below $200. The benefit is further
diminished come tax time, since unemployment benefits are
considered taxable income.
                                                                                                       

   HEALTH INSURANCE. Under COBRA -- the Consolidated Omnibus
Reconciliation Act -- companies must offer employees who are
losing their group health coverage the right to buy that
coverage, typically for 18 months. But not all companies
notify their departing employees of that right. And if your
company goes out of business -- ending its group coverage --
COBRA doesn't apply at all.
   COBRA coverage may seem expensive, but most people
probably won't be able to do better on the open market.
Still, you should start shopping for replacement coverage
early, particularly if you have health problems. "If you want
to get a new plan that will cover pre-existing conditions you
may have to double up on coverage as much as a year in
advance," says Mr. Enright.
                                                                                                       

   LIFE AND DISABILITY INSURANCE. If your company purchased
term life insurance for you, that coverage will likely end
with your employment. Some policies are convertible, allowing
you to pick up the premiums. But it pays to shop because
conversion isn't always a good deal.
   "The kind of policy the coverage converts to varies
considerably," says Mr. Clarfeld. "But if someone is not
otherwise insurable, it is extremely important that they
convert."
   Likewise, you may be able to convert your disability
coverage. When comparison shopping here, make sure that you
will be able to claim disability if unemployed.
                                                                                                       

   OTHER PERKS. There are a wide range of other benefits that
your company may view as negotiable. Companies, for example,
commonly offer out-placement services. Others may let you
purchase the company car or will provide an office or office
support for a while.
   Typically, companies won't accelerate vesting for either
retirement or stock option programs, but you can try to get
them to do so. If you are already vested in the option
program, you may be able to extend the amount of time you
have to exercise those options. "Try for a year's time," says
Mr. Bassick of Hewitt Associates.
   You may also be able to negotiate to work for your company
as a consultant. Noting that your boss probably doesn't know
everything you do, Mr. Bassick says you may be able to pick
up some of those jobs as a paid consultant while looking for
a new job. "I think this is an opportunity most people miss,"
he says. "And in some cases those consulting agreements can
last more than a year."