Three Governors
   Moving to Bolster
   State Finances
   ----
   By Christina Duff and James C. Hyatt
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
Illinois Gov. Jim Edgar, delivering an emergency fiscal
plan to state lawmakers, also recommended new borrowing to
pay a backlog of overdue bills. He skipped the traditional
State of the State address to quickly confront the projected
budget shortfall for the year ending June 30. He blamed the
continuing national recession for lagging tax revenues and
higher-than-expected state spending on federal entitlement
programs.
   New York Gov. Mario Cuomo -- already in a battle with the
Legislature over the recession-affected budget -- presented a
reform-laden agenda in his State of the State address in an
effort to recharge the state's economy. One of Gov. Cuomo's
major proposals was for an $800 million "Jobs for the New,
New York" bond act for infrastructure investments, designed
to create construction work and related jobs.
   In his State of the State address yesterday, California
Gov. Wilson reiterated a plan to cut welfare payments by as
much as 25% and proposed $6 billion in bonds for the November
ballot. He also proposed a $1.8 billion increase in funding
for public schools and a preventive health care plan for
children.
   The Republican governor didn't address how he plans to
close the budget gap, but he is scheduled to address the
deficit in a speech today. Last year, California closed a
$14.3 billion gap with a combination of spending cuts and tax
increases. Gov. Wilson has vowed he won't increase taxes
again.
   In Illinois, Gov. Edgar proposed eliminating $350 million
of the projected shortfall through immediate across-the-board
state spending cuts. Although he called the cuts the "fairest
and fastest" solution, the governor's plan will face rough
going in the Legislature.
   Democratic lawmakers already have indicated they're braced
to challenge any cuts in educational and human-service
programs. But Mr. Edgar, a Republican, said he is "far from
convinced that we can continue to spare" those programs and
still achieve needed budget reductions.
   Gov. Edgar also has warned that even if the $350 million
cuts are made, additional reductions may be necessary before
the end of fiscal 1992 if the economy doesn't strengthen.
   Additionally, the Illinois governor recommended borrowing
$500 million, to be repaid by October, through a combination
of federal dollars and Medicaid assessments on health-care
providers. The borrowing would "permit us to clear up the
current backlog," he said, adding that he wouldn't consider
borrowing unless budget cuts were first approved.
   The state has borrowed in the short-term market once in
this fiscal year, which ends June 30. Last August, Illinois
sold $185 million of general obligation certificates that
must be paid off before the fiscal year ends. Proceeds were
used to pay bills.
   Gov. Edgar reiterated that he still isn't considering a
state tax increase -- a pledge he made in his budget address
last March.
   The state has been in financial straits the past two
fiscal years. Standard  Poor's Corp. cited its
"significantly weakened" financial position in August, when
it lowered its ratings on Illinois general obligation bonds
and state agency debts. Moody's Investors Service Inc. also
downgraded its general obligation debt ratings.
   In New York, Gov. Cuomo proposed a series of structural
changes to improve the state's budget-making process,
obviously inspired by the continuing battle between the
Democratic governor and the Republican-controlled Senate.
   Other budget-related proposals include reducing the
state's reliance on property taxes by vigorous containment of
Medicaid costs and other measures; changing the start of the
fiscal year to June 1; exploring ways to privatize some state
services, including laundry services at mental health
facilities; selling the World Trade Center in Manhattan; and
converting state-run hospitals to private ownership.