Technology  Health:
   Dow Corning Says
   It Will Stop Making
   Silicone Implants
   ----
   By Stephen Power
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Keith McKennon, Dow Corning's chairman and chief executive
officer, rejected suggestions that the withdrawal reflected
fears the implants may have injured the many women who
received them. He also said that the withdrawal won't force
any employee layoffs and that women who accept the company's
offer to remove implants won't be required to sign agreements
releasing the company from liability.
   "I made the decision on a business basis only, not on a
safety basis," Mr. McKennon said at a news conference. "We
continue to receive lawsuits. That's no mystery."
   Dow Corning also will finance a $10 million research
effort to "answer those remaining questions women may have
about the implants," Mr. McKennon said. He said the company
will cease providing silicone gel for other implant makers
except where it is bound to do so under existing contracts.
Dow Corning's "long-term interest is not to be in the
business," he said, adding he is unsure how long the company
will be contractually bound to make the gel.
   Dr. Sidney Wolfe, director of health research for Public
Citizen, a Washington-based consumer group, said Dow
Corning's offer of $1,200 to help women remove implants might
be "inadequate." The cost to remove breast implants runs from
several hundred to several thousand dollars, depending on the
surgeon's fee and any complications.
   Dr. Wolfe also complained that Dow Corning and the Food
and Drug Administration failed to determine the safety of
implants before they were marketed.
   "These products should have been tested before they hit
the market," said Dr. Wolfe, a leading crusader against
implants. "This whole fiasco has been made possible by the
complicit consent of three parties: the manufacturers, the
plastic surgeons and the FDA."
   He called on the two remaining silicone-gel implant
manufacturers, Mentor Corp. of Santa Barbara, Calif., and the
McGhan Medical unit of Inamed Corp. of Carpinteria, Calif.,
to stop making the implants. "If McGhan and Mentor were
responsible, they would follow suit and get out of the
business," he said.
   In a statement, Mentor said it wasn't surprised by Dow
Corning's decision because "it has been publicly hinting of
this action since the {FDA's} breast implant moratorium began
in January." A company official declined to comment on Dr.
Wolfe's comments. Inamed officials didn't return calls
seeking comment.
   Separately, a federal court judge in Bridgeport, Conn.,
granted a temporary restraining order sought by an attorney
suing Dow Corning on behalf of a woman with implants. The
order directs the company not to destroy any implants or
implant components it holds in inventory until a hearing can
be held March 30.