LEISURE  ARTS -- Critique:
   Sinister Stamp Put on Elvis and NEA
   ----
   By Raymond Sokolov
A death sentence, as Dr. Johnson said, concentrates the
mind wonderfully. And Mr. Coren's guarantee that I won't see
81 has put a lot of things in a clearer light for me. Take
the the Elvis stamp.
   The U.S. Postal Service is gearing up to produce an Elvis
Presley commemorative. This ticked off Washington Post
columnist Jonathan Yardley, who thinks The King is a poor
choice for such an honor. On Monday, Mr. Yardley dredged up
every revolting thing he could about The Pelvis's
drug-besotted later years. Clearly Mr. Yardley is not much of
a rock fan and doesn't give Elvis's musical achievements the
same weight he would give the higher-browed work of such
swine as Richard Wagner or Ezra Pound.
   Mr. Yardley is, of course, perfectly entitled to diss
Elvis and the Postal Service. Yet he misses a couple of
fundamental points. He is, of course, aware that the sole
requirement of a commemorative honoree is that she or he have
been dead for 10 years. But numerous alleged sightings of The
King in recent months have convinced a growing throng of
Americans that their singing idol is still among us. Even a
brain-damaged lefty like me doesn't really believe it, but
many of our fellow citizens do. How will these people feel
when they walk into a post office next month and discover
that a federal agency wants them to vote on which of two
Presley images will join Benjamin Franklin and Louisa May
Alcott in the philatelic pantheon?
   I think it will irk them. Some zealots of the Living Elvis
may even perform acts of civil disobedience against the
Postal Service for its sacrilege. Mr. Yardley could find
himself joined by some rude and unwelcome companions in the
crusade against the Elvis stamp. Come May, he will wish he
had looked at this matter from a higher plane, in the light
of Eternity, just as a left-hander with the chill of the end
of days on his neck. I mean that Mr. Yardley will come to see
that the Elvis stamp, travesty or not, is only a small part
of the aesthetic sinkhole that our Postal Service has become.
This is my second point.
   Our stamps, like our money, are drab and utilitarian.
There are exceptions, of course, but if you compare the
stamps most of us use most of the time with the everyday
postage of other countries (even Third World countries), you
will see what every stamp collector knows. The U.S. is a
philatelic backwater. So I think it ill behooves a man of
letters to pooh-pooh a federal agency's first clumsy steps
toward honoring a talented musician beloved by millions with
an unconventional image ratified by a public vote.
   Indeed, I am so impressed with Postmaster General Anthony
M. Frank's initiative in the Elvis matter that I think an
enlightened president in an election year should widen his
responsibilities to include all federal support of the arts.
   As things stand, the National Endowment for the Arts (NEA)
is a shipwreck. Through some fault of its own, a basically
honorable outfit with almost no money to spend has been
Helmsified and Buchananized to the point where it cannot any
longer perform even the modest functions it was timidly
created for. The trouble began when the NEA agreed to fund
performance artists and inevitably got besmirched with
sweet-potato puree and other Gesamtkunstdreck that the
performance-art world likes to sling in the name of culture
and grant-getting.
   The NEA also let some fairly foolish proposals in more
traditional arts areas slip by its screening process, setting
loose a screaming process from legitimate critics and
opportunists who probably hadn't been inside a museum since
Miss Spence in sixth grade took them downtown to see the
mummies and the classical nude marbles (giggle, point).
   So the president is getting blamed for using tax money to
buy blasphemous excreta and he shows he really is a stand-up
Texan sort of country-music-loving guy by firing his bowed
and beaten NEA chief. And that is the end of the NEA as a
practical organization until after the election, or maybe
forever.
   The president can easily phase out the NEA and shift its
worthwhile functions over to the Postal Service. Instead of
the art cronies who now fill the selection committees at the
NEA and notoriously vote for their friends, art spending
would be in the hands of federal civil servants with no
previous arts training, no prejudices, no arts ideology and
an absolute minimum of connections in the arts establishment.
The Postal Service also has at its disposal 40,000 potential
galleries, well lit and dispersed uniformly throughout the 50
states. Some of these post-office/art spaces are large enough
to double as concert halls and auditoriums. And the walls of
even the humblest post offices offer a rich opportunity for
muralists.
   Much of this vital new program could be administered by
local postmasters responsive as few others to the heartbeat
of the grass roots. But inevitably, Postmaster General Frank
would be called upon to supervise arts spending with national
or international implications. It is crucial that he, or
whoever does end up running federal arts policy, not abandon
the many sober and brilliant projects that NEA even now
supports. A splendid example of such an unimpeachable use of
public money is the grant made to the Boston Museum of Fine
Arts for "Fra Bartolommeo, Master Draughtsman of the High
Renaissance." These masterpieces have been brought from
Rotterdam and elsewhere and will be giving Americans a chance
to see intimate works from the hand of an undeservedly
neglected genius (in Boston until April 12; at Fort Worth's
Kimbell Art Museum, May 9 to Aug. 2; and at the Morgan
Library in New York, Sept. 11 to Nov. 29).
   Left-handers, especially, should seize the opportunity,
while they still can.