Foreign Exchange:
   Volatile Trading
   In Dollar Seen
   To Continue
   ----
   By Candace Cumberbatch
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
Friday, for example, the dollar seesawed in a sizable
trading range of 1.5985 to 1.6230 marks. It finally finished
the day at 1.6115 marks, down from 1.6165 in New York late
Thursday. Against the yen, the dollar moved in a range of
124.97 and 125.98 and closed at 125.78. Late Thursday, the
dollar traded at 125.75 yen.
   Such swings have been the norm recently. Indeed, it's not
uncommon for the dollar to reverse its course several times a
day, sometimes moving a pfennig or more against the mark
within minutes.
   In early trading in Tokyo Monday, the dollar was at 125.65
yen, down from 125.78 yen at Friday's close. Meanwhile, the
U.S. currency was trading at 1.6080 marks, down from 1.6161
marks on Friday.
   Although the odds for big losses are just as high as the
odds for hefty profits in such an environment, some traders
say the skittish activity is welcome.
   "It's volatile every week. We love it. That's the way the
market should be," says Jerome Camblain, manager of currency
options trading at Paribas Capital Markets Group in New York.
   The dollar, Mr. Camblain says, may very likely fluctuate
in a broad range of 1.5950 to 1.6350 marks for the near
future. Against the yen, a range of 125 to 130 is probable,
he says, noting that daily dollar-yen dealings have been much
less volatile than dollar-mark trading recently.
   The calmer dollar-yen trading is partly due to news that
the Federal Reserve Bank of New York was seen selling dollars
at 127.20 yen Jan. 17. Worries about further intervention are
discouraging heavy dollar purchases against the yen. On the
other hand, no one is in a rush to sell dollars against the
yen because of concerns about the weakening Japanese economy,
some analysts say.
   One of the reasons for the dollar's erratic movements
against the mark and most other currencies is uncertainty
about the course of U.S. interest rates.
   Although the economy remains weak, Federal Reserve
Chairman Alan Greenspan said last week that the central
bank's credit relaxation in recent months "should be
sufficient" to invigorate the economy.
   The recent mixed bag of U.S. economic data hasn't made
things any easier for currency traders. In early U.S. trading
Thursday, for instance, the dollar fell on news about the
unexpectedly big decline in December durable goods orders --
only to rebound a short while later with help from reports
about a sharp rise in personal income that month.
   Because it's long been forecast that the dollar will
rocket higher as soon as U.S. rates hit bottom and U.S.
economic growth picks up, the volatile dealings caused by
varied news about rates and the economy are not surprising,
analysts say.
   Traders "want to make sure they're positioned for the
{dollar rally} when it does take place. The market wants to
be bullish on the dollar. This is just too early," says Lisa
Finstrom, a currency analyst at Shearson Lehman Brothers.