Shareholders
   Likely to Get
   Vote on Pay
   ---
   By Kevin G. Salwen
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The SEC is pondering the step as the political heat over
the issue has reached searing levels. Presidential candidates
for both parties are railing against corporate fat cats and
their hefty bonuses. And President Bush's ill-fated trip to
Japan was notable as much for the pay levels of the
executives he brought with him as for the trade pacts he
reached.
   Moreover, Sen. Carl Levin (D., Mich.), who is leading the
crusade over disparities between managers' pay and those of
American workers, is preparing to push legislation on
executive compensation that key Senate staffers say would
breeze through Congress.
   The SEC's move would allow shareholders to vote on
non-binding proposals concerning executive pay. While
managers wouldn't be bound by the advice of shareholders,
such votes could pressure directors into cutting executives'
pay packages.
   Historically, the agency has blocked such votes on the
grounds that they are part of the company's ordinary
business, and that shareholders shouldn't be allowed to
micromanage a company's operations. Big business is still
leaning heavily on agency officials regarding this point. But
times have changed, and the issue has become much more
central to shareholder interests.
   "An issue like executive compensation has really risen
above the measure of ordinary business to a level of broad
national interest," contends Commissioner Mary Schapiro. "I
find it hard to fathom what arguments can be made that
executive compensation shouldn't be voted on when it is
reaching into the $10 million or $15 million range and is
being covered in every newspaper in the country. I don't
think the average citizen would view it as ordinary business
any more."
   Furthermore, as the owners of a company, shareholders
should be able to advise directors on issues of pay, the
agency is now concluding. "Greater shareholder involvement in
compensation proposals should help insure that boards of
directors will reflect the economic goals of the owners of
the company," said SEC Chairman Richard Breeden, who wouldn't
say whether the SEC will actually make the change.
   Other commissioners wonder whether the agency has been 180
degrees wrong in disallowing votes on pay, but forcing
companies to put on the proxy such political and social
issues as business in South Africa. "The general trend in my
judgment should be exactly the opposite of what we had been
doing," argues commissioner Richard Roberts, a
shareholder-rights advocate.
   The SEC's actions are taking place under the commission's
purview as controller of the proxy process. Every proxy
season, including the one going on now, shareholders propose
issues they would like to have voted at the company's annual
meeting. Companies seeking to avoid those votes can petition
the SEC to exclude the measures through "no-action letters."
   The agency's division of corporation finance currently is
considering at least 20 compensation proposals that the
division typically would have rubber-stamped off the ballot.
These companies are likely to receive word within the next
week or two that they won't be allowed to leave the questions
off proxy ballots without risking legal action by the SEC.
   The SEC has gone through similar reevaluation processes
over the past several years over whether to allow
shareholders to vote on anti-smoking provisions for tobacco
companies and on "golden parachute" proposals, in which top
executives get compensation packages if the company is
acquired. After debates over the subjects, the agency
reversed its no-action stances and began forcing votes on
such proposals.
   Executive pay votes allowed by the agency would be
non-binding because state law governs how directors can
manage a company. Under state law, holders can't order
directors (who decide compensation) on how to manage the
company.
   The SEC's step would be the third significant change
concerning compensation in the past several months. Two weeks
ago, Chairman Breeden said the agency would propose forcing
companies to value stock-option plans in a specific manner
that would allow comparison among companies and industries.
   And this past summer, the agency's head of corporation
finance, Linda Quinn, said the SEC would approve changes to
company bylaws dealing with compensation. But, oddly, no such
proposals have been submitted to the agency, though several
pay accords have been reached between such companies as ITT
Corp. and UAL Corp. and the United Shareholders Association,
a shareholder activist organization.
   Separately, on Friday, SEC Chief Accountant Walter
Schuetze said he thought the accounting rules on stock
options were flawed because they allow companies to avoid
earnings charges when they issue stock options, even though
they are clearly giving away something with value.
   At a hearing of the Oversight of Government Management
Subcommittee, Mr. Scheutze and James Leisenring, vice
chairman of the Financial Accounting Standards Board, came
under fire for not changing that standard. The SEC and FASB
"are part of the problem," Sen. Levin said.
   While both accounting officials agreed that the policy
should be changed, they urged Mr. Levin to be patient while a
FASB panel worked out the details.
   "I predict we will make your life easier for you," Sen.
Levin snapped, pointing to a provision in his bill that would
require a reduction in earnings. "You've been struggling with
this for eight years and now you want two more years. That's
too long. Congress has no choice."