GM's Attempts to Gain Concessions
   Meet Stiff Resistance in Canada and U.S.
   ----
   By Gregory A. Patterson and Michael T. Malloy
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
GM fired off a tough response to the Oshawa vote. "There
is no doubt that General Motors will re-establish its
competitive position in North America," said George Peapples,
president of GM's Canadian unit, in a statement. "The
question now is: Do Oshawa workers want to be part of it?"
   But the union resistance means round two of GM's fight to
shutter unneeded plants and stop the financial bleeding in
its North American auto operations will be considerably
rockier than round one.
   Round one began when GM announced last Dec. 18 that it
would close 21 North American factories and eliminate 74,000
jobs in the next three years. It ended Feb. 24, when GM
Chairman Robert C. Stempel announced the auto maker will
close a factory at Willow Run, Mich., and move production of
the large cars built there to Arlington, Texas. Mr. Stempel
said the willingness of the Texas workers to accept
around-the-clock operations and cut job classifications was a
key factor in the plant's survival. GM also said it will
shutter a minivan plant in Tarrytown, N.Y., and several other
parts operations.
   Now, GM is moving toward a decision on which of five
midsized car factories to close, and company officials say
labor cooperation again will be critical in choosing which
plants remain. But this time, union leaders are moving more
aggressively to thwart GM's strategy.
   "We are prepared to sit down with the company and identify
workable solutions to production problems, but not at the
expense of workers' hard-won rights," said the CAW's national
secretary-treasurer, Jim O'Neil, in a statement yesterday
following the Oshawa local vote.
   Meanwhile, the head of the UAW's GM department, Stephen P.
Yokich, has said he will block any future attempt by a UAW
local to offer concessions that would undermine another
plant's survival. Mr. Yokich labeled GM's strategy
"whipsawing," a loaded term in the UAW lexicon. "We're not
going to let whipsawing happen," Mr. Yokich said at a recent
news conference. Locals "can vote and do anything they want
to do. We have the final say."
   The Oshawa results indicate that so far, CAW leaders are
holding discipline among a slim majority of the rank and
file.
   The Oshawa complex includes two of GM's five midsized car
factories. Some labor experts say GM would prefer to keep
both the Oshawa car factories alive. They are newer, have
more modern equipment and lower labor costs than the rival
midsized car factory in Doraville. Health-care and currency
differences also give most Canadian factories an edge over
similar U.S. plants in hourly labor costs.
   But Oshawa workers have a militant tradition. During a
fight against mandatory overtime in the mid-1970s, workers
wore buttons saying, "Ask Me, Don't Tell Me" to work
overtime. That spirit continues, despite GM's warnings that
it's considering closing one of the two Oshawa car plants.
   By a 1,747 to 1,622 margin, Oshawa workers rejected a new
contract that would have given GM the ability to make
overtime work mandatory, which emerged as the key issue in
the talks. GM officials also want the ability to run some of
their Canadian operations around the clock.
   The Oshawa vote makes it easier for UAW leaders to stop
local unions at midsized car plants in Doraville; Fairfax,
Kansas; and Oklahoma City from following Arlington's example,
one labor expert said yesterday.
   "It's not working out the way {GM officials} wanted," said
Sean McAlinden, a labor economist at the University of
Michigan. "Maybe if enough plants say no they will stop."