Letters to the Editor:
   Sheik Zayed's Role
   As BCCI Shareholder
While you correctly state that efforts to put in place a
trust to sell the CCAH shares owned by BCCI have not yet been
successful, you erroneously blame Sheik Zayed, who along with
Abu Dhabi governmental entities is the majority holder of
BCCI. You state, "He and his representatives seem to feel
entitled to a say in how to dispose of the interest the bank
{BCCI} illegally acquired." This is wrong.
   BCCI's interests are represented by liquidators.
Divestiture of its CCAH holdings is their responsibility.
Representatives of Sheik Zayed's Private Department are
involved in the process only because he and his family
legally own a minority interest in CCAH. While they are not
required to do so, Sheik Zayed and his family have been
willing to place these shares in the trust as well, in order
to facilitate a sale of the entire institution. It is for
this reason, and not because of the BCCI interests, that
representatives of the Private Department have been
legitimately involved in the negotiations and selection of a
trustee.
   U.S. regulatory officials and First American management
have sought the assistance of the sheik's Private Department
both in creating a trust and in providing financial support
to First American. First American's Washington-based banking
operations now have higher capital ratios than most of their
local peers, because the Private Department provided
financing of almost $170 million last year.
   Indeed, the Federal Reserve's enforcement action and the
recent U.S. prosecution of BCCI would not have been possible
without the cooperation of our clients with regulatory
authorities. This cooperation resulted in evidence of BCCI's
secret interest in CCAH being given to U.S. authorities more
than a year ago.
   Our clients have acted responsibly to protect First
American. They seek not influence over the bank, but an
orderly sale. They have done nothing to warrant being
included in your attacks on BCCI.
   W. Caffey Norman III
   Patton, Boggs  Blow
   U.S. Counsel to Private Department
   of Sheik Zayed bin Sultan al Nahyan
   Washington