Pricing Healthcare:
   Hotels and Airlines Do It: Why Not Hospitals?
   ----
   By Uwe E. Reinhardt
At the same time, executives also claim that they could
perfectly well fend for themselves in the health-care market,
if only the government got off their backs. Now, it is true
that, during the 1970s, public health policy did repeatedly
seek to climb onto the private sector's back, although
usually it slid right off.
   In 1971, President Nixon proposed, without success, that
all businesses be mandated to provide health insurance to
their employees. Next, he imposed strict price controls on
the entire health sector, a regime that barely outlasted his
own. In 1974, President Ford signed a comprehensive national
health planning law, albeit a law without teeth. Finally,
President Carter threatened to impose budget caps upon the
entire hospital sector and, once again, tried to mandate
business to provide all employees with health insurance, in
each case without success. But all along, the nation's
business leaders despaired, praying that they be left alone
to handle their own affairs in the health-care market.
   Along came President Reagan with the answer to their
prayers. In effect, his administration told the business
community: "You look after your part of the show, and we'll
look after ours." The suppliers of health care were left free
to put in place whatever capacity they wanted and to bargain
with private payers over prices as best they could.
   Ironically, on its own part of the show the "free-market"
Reagan administration, in concert with Congress, imposed a
regime of strict, centrally administered price controls
reminiscent of pre-"glasnost" Soviet pricing. Beginning in
1983, the Medicare program phased in a nationwide fee
schedule that paid each hospital a fixed amount per
diagnostically defined case, with only minor adjustments for
regional variations. The annual updates in that schedule are
recommended by the administration and set by Congress.
   The fees Medicare paid doctors remained frozen for most of
the 1980s; in the Bush administration, they were made subject
to expenditure targets. These fees are being phased out in
favor of a nationwide fee schedule. Like the hospital fees,
the doctors' fees will allow for only minor regional
variations.
   This two-pronged health policy is the genesis of the
so-called cost shift now being deplored by business leaders.
Once again, they see the government on their backs. But who's
really on their backs?
   Like the airlines and the hotel industry, the health
sector is characterized by relatively high fixed costs in the
short run and by products that cannot easily be resold among
customers. Like those other industries, the health sector
therefore is a natural for what economists call "price
discrimination."
   Under price discrimination, identical goods or services
are sold to different classes of customers at different
prices, depending on the customers' ability to resist high
prices. In such a market, large buyers with market muscle
usually can get away with prices much below fully allocated
unit costs. If the sellers are plagued by excess capacity --
as the hospital sector is -- they will accept such low prices
as long as they cover variable costs with at least some
profit margin. The rest of the overhead must then be
recovered from buyers with less market muscle. U.S. airlines
and hotels are masters at this game.
   Between 30% and 40% of the typical hospital's total
patient revenue now comes from Medicare. Medicaid typically
accounts for another 10%. In recent years, these two programs
have used their size to exploit the potential of price
discrimination, at the behest of an electorate and a business
community that has called for tight controls on government
spending. Incidentally, government has always gotten
similarly large discounts from the airline and hotel
industries, as do many large businesses. No one whines over
those cost shifts, not even those who pay full costs and then
some.
   A graphic illustration of hospital cost shifting was
recently offered on this page by Dr. Sidney Marchasin ("Cost
Shifting: How One Hospital Does It," Dec. 9, 1991). The
Stanford University Medical Center offered similar data in
the New York Times (Nov. 11, 1990). For example, for a
coronary bypass operation that costs Stanford $35,000 to
$41,000, Medicare paid only about $27,000 and Medicaid a
paltry $11,000. To recover its overhead, the center charged
privately insured patients about $81,000.
   America's insurance executives and the businesses they
insure decry this pricing strategy as "unfair." The question
can be asked, however, why these executives so passively
accept the alleged cost shift. If they have the moxie to deal
with the providers of care -- as they so often claim -- then
why not prove it by simply saying "no" when the cost shift
comes their way? On the other hand, if for some reason they
cannot say "no," then wouldn't now be an opportune time to
admit their impotence and explore alternatives?
   So far, the most common suggestion from the business
community has been that the government should pay "fair"
prices for the health care it procures (like the "fair" in
"fair trade," one supposes). But how does one define "fair"?
And how does one ensure that everyone pays "fair" prices
short of a regulatory process in which all payers negotiate a
common, binding fee schedule with the doctors and hospitals
within a given region? The Germans now operate such an
all-payer system, and business leaders there never whine over
a cost shift.
   The American business community so far has opposed the
all-payer approach as too regulatory. Fair enough. But, then,
what is the alternative? Should Medicare and Medicaid pay
doctors and hospitals their "usual" fees -- that is, the much
higher prices private insurance carriers have been willing to
pay? One can readily imagine what would happen to the
Medicare and Medicaid budgets, and how our business community
would then lament runaway government spending. At the same
time, do we imagine that doctors and hospitals would lower
their fees to private payers if, by some miracle, government
paid them more?
   The cost shift is likely to go on for a while; the
taxpaying electorate demands no less. But sooner or later
this policy will flush the private payers out of the closet:
They must either learn to resist cost shifts, or they must
join the government in the much-loathed all-payer system. In
the meantime, we shall continue to behold that sorry
spectacle: frustrated, wailing executives who cannot get
their act together, nor even their story straight.
   ---
   Mr. Reinhardt is a professor of political economy at
Princeton University.