Check-Balance
   System Weak
   In Japan's Firms
   ---
   After Scandals, Critics Note
   Independent Auditors,
   Shareholders Are Scarce
   ----
   By Masoyoshi Kanabayashi
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Some of Japan's internal corporate check systems have been
reduced to "mere skeletons," writes Iwao Nakatani, a
commercial-science professor at Tokyo-based Hitotsubashi
University, in an essay published in the Nihon Keizai
Shimbun, Japan's leading financial daily. He called for
several changes, including the introduction of an outside
director system and a redefinition of directors' and
auditors' responsibilities. He also warned that Japanese
corporations will never build global trust unless measures to
check corporate behavior are taken immediately.
   While Japan has an outside-director system of sorts, it
functions very differently from its U.S. counterparts. Some
major companies' boards have as members bank and
insurance-company executives and officials from affiliates.
But most often, these "outside" directors generally aren't
independent third parties -- they are top executives of
concerns that own a considerable number of shares in the
company through Japan's equities-crossholding system.
   Similarly, the internal-corporate-auditor system has come
under fire as well. "It is inconceivable that {internal
corporate} auditors would say something against top
officials," because the auditors often are former employees
or former directors appointed by the president or other top
executives, says Seiichi Ohta, a Diet member. Mr. Ohta is
chairman of a ruling Liberal Democratic Party subcommittee on
commercial law that is researching an overhaul of the
corporate auditor system.
   Current law requires major companies -- those capitalized
at 500 million yen (about $4 million) or more -- to have at
least two auditors, either from inside or outside the
company. Mr. Ohta, who hopes to introduce a bill overhauling
the system in the Diet session beginning this month, says the
number should be increased to more than five mostly outside
auditors, and they should form their own board to check
overall corporate activities, including top executives'
financial and business decisions.
   Auditors, who are responsible for monitoring a company's
overall operations, are also required by law to check
corporate accounts, although these must first be examined by
an independent certified public accountant. But critics of
the system say that while CPAs check the company's financial
results, they cannot oversee the company's overall financial
operations. That is left up to the auditors, who some say
aren't independent enough to challenge top directors.
   Japan's securities scandals, which broke around the middle
of last year, involved major securities firms paying out more
than $1.2 billion in compensation to favored clients who
suffered losses in the securities markets. While the payments
weren't illegal, they did ignore a Finance Ministry directive
urging firms not to make such payments. The scandals prompted
the resignations of Nomura Securities Co.'s chairman, vice
chairman and president, as well as that of Nikko Securities
Co.'s president.
   Yet the resignations and various pay cuts meted out to
other top officials -- an unusual move in Japan -- seem to
have ended the scandal, with only one shareholder lawsuit
being filed. Shareholders rarely sue company boards over
allegations of financial mismanagement because court trials
are lengthy and extremely costly. Even if the plaintiff wins,
any indemnity paid goes to the company not to the individual
shareholder who sued.
   Similarly, Itoman & Co., a major trading company that
faced the threat of failure last year with debt of more than
one trillion yen, provides one of the best examples of how a
company's decision-making process gets out of control.
   Itoman went into the red largely because of massive
speculative real-estate and art deals. The transactions
eventually led to the dismissal of Itoman President Yoshihiko
Kawamura -- although the firing was extremely unusual in
corporate Japan and came only after his questionable dealings
were made public.
   Mr. Kawamura made almost every company decision on his
own, with no input from corporate auditors or other board
members, according to Japanese news reports. Mr. Kawamura and
other former top Itoman officials were arrested; he and one
other former executive are now charged with, among other
things, breach of trust. No Itoman shareholders have filed
law suits against the company's board, a spokesman says.
   Analysts say that stronger, more independent voices on
companies' boards may have at least brought such problematic
practices to light earlier, or even prevented them.
   Another key part of the corporate checks-and-balances
system, the shareholders meeting, doesn't function
independently, because most equity is controlled by corporate
investors through equity crossholdings. Each concern's
managers exchange "blank proxies" among themselves,
essentially giving management freedom to follow its own
plans.
   Hiroyuki Itami, a professor of Hitotsubashi University,
says the present system results in virtually no checks on a
company president's actions. He says the president tends to
be "an absolute power holder in the board meeting," because
most of the board members are in-house directors and reflect
the corporate hierarchy.
   And while board nominees must be approved by shareholders,
it is all but impossible for shareholders to oppose
management decisions, because the annual meetings are
controlled by the proxy votes of related companies.
   Japanese corporate management experts say that while top
executives are expected to have high moral standards, that
alone won't prevent the recurrence of scandals similar to the
recent spate.
   Keidanren, the big business organization, met with strong
skepticism when it recently appealed to companies to
establish new codes of conduct. One analyst says many top
executives are too business-oriented to be influenced by a
call for higher ethical standards.
   Keidanren looks less than eager to back up Mr. Ohta's
efforts to revise the auditor system. Gaishi Hiraiwa, the
organization's president, suggested that it isn't easy to
prevent scandals like the recent ones. "There is a corporate
constitution of profit first at the very bottom" of those
scandals, he said in a recent interview with the Nihon Keizai
Shimbun.