International:
   Saudi Group, Petrofina Said to Plan
   $1.3 Billion Venture on U.S. Assets
   ----
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
The oil weekly said it had learned that a group led by
prominent businessman Badr Mohammed al-Aiban signed a
detailed letter of intent on the deal early this month.
   Fina Inc. is the U.S. subsidiary of Belgium's Petrofina.
The weekly said a 50-50 joint venture would be set up, called
Fina USA, to own and operate assets. These include two Texas
refineries: Port Arthur, with a capacity of 150,000 barrels a
day and Big Spring, with 60,000 barrels a day, both of which
have recently been processing Saudi crude oil.
   Nearly all Saudi crude is marketed by the state-owned
Saudi Arabian Oil Co.
   The joint venture also will operate a distribution network
comprising some 3,000 service stations in 20 states. Also
included in the deal are product pipelines and storage
depots, the weekly said.
   The shareholders in the joint venture will be Arabian
Petroleum Co., formed by the group of Saudi private investors
in the project, and Fina Oil  Chemical Co.
   Fina yesterday confirmed it is engaged in negotiations on
establishing a joint venture with Arabian Petroleum, whose
major shareholder after formation will be Delta
International, a Saudi Arabian company.
   Fina said negotiations, which have been under way for some
time, are proceeding on various issues, including a crude
supply contract with Saudi Arabian Oil. Fina said it couldn't
yet say when conclusion of the negotiations can be expected.
   The weekly reported that the value of the deal with
Arabian Petroleum, including the contributions of both
partners in the joint venture, is reckoned to exceed $1.3
billion.
   The deal marked a major expansion of the Saudi stake in
the U.S. oil market, the newsletter said. Saudi Aramco, the
state oil company, has a 50% stake in Star Enterprise, which
owns a 600,000 barrels-a-day refining network in the U.S.
east coast. Texaco Inc. holds the other 50%.