Labor Letter:
   A Special News Report on People
   And Their Jobs in Offices,
   Fields and Factories
   ----
   By Albert R. Karr
Workers "overcompensate" in holiday moods in December,
then "decompensate" in January, says David Levine, vice
president for marketing and account management at Aetna Life
& Casualty's Human Affairs International subsidiary. Last
January, Aetna saw 31% more people use its employee
assistance programs. But Tenneco and Coastal Corp. don't see
such a trend.
   The recession spurred more employees to ask for help last
year, says Jane Hill, of Fleet/Norstar, and she doesn't
expect any decline now.
                                                                                                       

   U.S. BUSINESS SUFFERS from education, training gaps.
   That's a major message of a new book, "Rebuilding
America's Workforce." In part, it highlights the workplace
strides by nations like Japan, Korea and Singapore, which
President Bush is visiting on his Asian trip. Authors William
Kolberg and Foster Smith of the National Alliance of Business
note that Japan, placing a premium on an educated work force,
has a high-school graduation rate over 90%.
   Japan, like Germany, smoothes the school-to-work
transition. Singapore requires employers to pay 1% of the
payroll of unskilled, low-paid workers into a
skills-development fund, unless they pay high wages or do
top-notch training. Korea has won seven world
vocational-training championships; the best U.S. finish was
13th.
                                                                                                       

   MEETING THE CHALLENGE: States redouble jobless-pay
efforts.
   Pushing to pay extended unemployment compensation benefits
allowed by Congress last November, Connecticut hired 120 new
workers, will hire 50 more this month and has volunteers
working nights and Saturdays. Seasonal and recession layoffs
swell New York's caseload to a 20-year peak, so 300 temporary
workers were added and data processing and mail-room staff
worked Thanksgiving and four weekends in a row to get out
information and checks.
   "We have {workers} hanging from the rafters," a Texas
Employment Commission official says. Texas, California, New
Jersey, Pennsylvania and Arizona also work nights and
weekends, hire temporary staff and switch workers from other
jobs to handle the bigger load. Few states met the U.S. Labor
Department's promise that checks would be issued by
Thanksgiving.
   A big task: telling many people, like ones who used up
regular benefits before last March, they aren't eligible for
extended pay.
                                                                                                       

   BRANCHING OUT: AFSCME joins the Mine Workers, Service
Employees and Communications Workers unions to form the West
Virginia State Employees Union. It will lobby for legislation
to allow collective bargaining for state workers in one of
the few states that still bans it.
                                                                                                       

   DISPLAY ADVERTISING by companies supplying personnel
agencies and temporary-help firms with insurance, software
and training aids is off 13% to 30% in recent employment
publications, says the Staffing Industry Report newsletter.
The declines parallel a 20% drop in the Conference Board's
help-wanted advertising index in recent months.
                                                                                                       

   THE BRAILLE INSTITUTE develops "Work Sight," part of a
video series dealing with vision-loss and challenges to
visually-impaired persons and their bosses. The videos are
designed to help employers adapt the workplace for
vision-impaired workers.
                                                                                                       

   LOOKING AHEAD: Nearly all of a 25 million increase in
non-farm employment forecast by the Labor Department between
1990 and 2005 will come from service industries, such as
health and retail trade.
                                                                                                       

   SPREAD THE RISK: Retirement funds use many GICs.
   In a survey of 80 large employers by Buck Consultants,
those with defined contribution plans investing in guaranteed
investment contracts have an average 50% of plan assets in 11
GICs bought from seven different carriers. Fully 47% of the
firms have 51% or more of assets plowed into GICs, and 19%
have a GIC invested with troubled insurers that have been
taken over by state regulators.
   Most don't think such takeovers reflect widespread
insurance-industry problems. But as many as 59% are mulling,
or have made, changes such as examining GIC vendors more
closely, raising credit standards or adding other
fixed-income options. Some 66% may delete, or have deleted,
"guaranteed" from their GIC fund's name.
   Employees in 516 firms polled by consultant Foster Higgins
have invested an average 58% of their own retirement
contributions in GICs or similar bank options.
                                                                                                       

   THE CHECKOFF: Since Cigna Corp. has 27 biweekly paydays
this year, it cut each week's pay 3.7% to keep the year's
payout even. . . . The number of women on corporate boards
has risen 35% to 481 since 1985, says the National Women's
Economic Alliance. . . . The federal Pension Benefit Guaranty
Corp. will guarantee a maximum $2,352 monthly benefit for
participants in single-employer defined-benefit plans
terminating this year, up from $2,250 in 1991.