Marketing  Media -- Advertising:
   Chairmen Starring as Spokesmen
   May Eventually Lose Their Luster
   ----
   By Joanne Lipman
Mr. Iacocca has caught flak for bashing the Japanese and
blaming them for the U.S. auto industry's problems. The
one-time business hero, credited with pulling Chrysler from
the brink of bankruptcy, now presides over perhaps the
weakest of the Big Three auto makers -- Chrysler claimed just
8.5% of the total U.S. car market last month. And, most
fearsome of all for an advertising spokesman, his popularity
ratings have plunged. "He's overstayed his welcome," contends
Joanne Davis, president of ad agency Omon, which creates ads
for Japanese rival Toyota.
   Such competitors may have their own reasons for
criticizing Mr. Iacocca. But other executives who star in
company ads don't always fare well either. The past few years
have seen a host of them following in the footsteps of Mr.
Iacocca, from Remington's Victor Kiam to Wendy's Dave Thomas
to singer-turned-sausage-maker Jimmy Dean. Now, ad executives
are questioning just how long it takes for a corporate chief
-- even a popular one -- to wear out his welcome with
consumers.
   Some research suggests the honeymoon doesn't last long.
Marketing Evaluations Inc., which compiles the zealously
watched "TvQ" popularity ratings of celebrities, has found
that as a group, business executives are generally unpopular.
Worse, an executive's popularity tends to decline over time.
   "Unfortunately, they start out with one foot in the hole,"
says Steven Levitt, president of Marketing Evaluations, in
Port Washington, N.Y. "These people aren't liked to begin
with. They were never welcome in the first place."
   Even Dave Thomas, the folksy chief of Wendy's whose
homespun ads have been highly praised in the ad industry, was
considered very appealing by only 13% of people polled in
1991. His negative rating was more than double that, at 27%,
according to Marketing Evaluations.
   Mr. Iacocca remains the most popular business executive
ranked by the research firm. Even so, his popularity rating
plunged 24% between 1987 and 1991. In the most recent survey,
only 16% of people polled found him very appealing, while 29%
found him very unappealing, vs. 21% and 22%, respectively, in
1987.
   The Japan-bashing that is so closely associated with Mr.
Iacocca "has chipped at his image," says Jay Chiat, chairman
of ad agency Chiat/Day/Mojo, which handles Japan's Nissan.
The latest Chrysler corporate ad, created by Bozell, features
Mr. Iacocca complaining that "foreign competitors" have been
giving U.S. car makers "a real beating." Says Mr. Chiat: "He
comes off as being much more self-serving than in the past.
Before, he was an underdog. Now, he comes across as a cranky
guy, a one-trick pony: `It's not our fault.'"
   Chrysler executives counter that their own research finds
Mr. Iacocca is more recognizable than ever, and that his
"believability" and "sincerity" levels remain quite high. "He
continues to be a tremendous spokesperson for the
corporation," says David Rooney, manager of corporate
advertising. He is seen as someone "very honest who has a lot
of integrity and who people can trust." The company plans to
use Mr. Iacocca in some other ads in its new corporate
campaign, which will air for 18 months.
   Wendy's also has research showing how believable and
likable Dave Thomas is as a spokesman. The company is well
aware of the pitfalls of using executives as pitchmen; before
enlisting Mr. Thomas, it studied other executives who did it
first to find mistakes they made.
   For one, Mr. Thomas doesn't refer to competitors in ads,
since "people don't want to hear about what's wrong with
somebody else. They want to hear what's right with you," says
Charles Rath, executive vice president of marketing for the
Dublin, Ohio, chain. Wendy's and ad agency Backer Spielvogel
Bates also work to preserve Mr. Thomas's folksy image. Too
many executives in ads are "patronizing," Mr. Rath says.
"They tend to talk to themselves . . . instead of the
consumer."
   Turning corporate chieftains into spokesmen is even more
risky than relying on a celebrity. Diet Pepsi distanced
itself from former endorser Mike Tyson well before he was
convicted of raping a young beauty-pageant contestant. But
the Helmsley Hotel chain was caught red-faced when Leona
Helmsley, who starred in every ad, ran into legal troubles of
her own. (She has since been phased out of ads.) And should
the executive-spokesman leave for another job, be fired or
die, the image of the entire company could be sullied.
   Even Sam Scali, whose ad agency has featured Frank Perdue
in Perdue chicken ads for more than 20 years, is skeptical of
the strategy for most clients. Mr. Scali, president and
creative director of Scali, McCabe, Sloves, says Mr. Perdue
continues to be "an important symbol for the company" and to
stand for quality in the minds of consumers. And just in case
of emergency, Scali has created and testmarketed a full-blown
campaign without Mr. Perdue in sight.
   Yet Scali probably wouldn't star a chief executive in
campaigns for any other client. Consumers "probably don't
understand the relevance of why they're being used to begin
with" in most cases, he says. Companies "have got to think it
out more carefully."
   ---
   Ad Notes. . . .
                                                                                                       

   NEW ACCOUNT: Atari Corp., Sunnyvale, Calif., tapped the
Chicago office of Hal Riney  Partners for its Lynx portable
videogame system account, estimated at $5 million to $7
million. Previous advertising for the computer and videogame
maker was handled on a project basis. The agency said a new
campaign would begin in April.