Technology:
   Amylin Rises 50% from Initial Offer
   Amid Hopes of New Drug for Diabetes
   ----
   By Rhonda L. Rundle
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Diabetes is a research field attracting much interest
because there hasn't been a lot of progress in developing
major new treatments over the past decade, analysts said.
Alteon Inc., another diabetes research concern, made a big
splash in the new issue market when it went public 2 1/2
months ago.
   The success of Amylin's stock sale also reflects the huge
size of the diabetes market -- estimated at about $20 billion
a year in the U.S. alone -- the track record of the company's
chief executive officer, and a strategic alliance with a unit
of Glaxo Holdings PLC, a large pharmaceutical company.
   "Diabetes is an enormous market that hasn't had much
technology applied to it," said Sarah Gordon, an analyst at
Amerindo Investments Inc., New York. Amylin "has an elegant
theory for what causes or potentially causes some of the
metabolic problems associated with {the most common form} of
diabetes." Ms. Gordon said her firm, which manages pension
funds, purchased shares in the initial offering.
   Amylin is named after a hormone discovered in 1987 by a
team of Oxford University scientists led by Garth J.S.
Cooper, a company co-founder. Based on its early research,
the company believes that amylin plays a central role in the
regulation of glucose metabolism. Drugs that the company
hopes to develop would replace amylin in young diabetics who
have difficulties with insulin therapy, and block production
of the hormone in older patients with adult onset diabetes
and certain types of obesity.
   Amylin's chairman and chief executive officer is Howard E.
"Ted" Greene Jr., known on Wall Street for his role in
helping to launch another San Diego biotechnology company,
Hybritech Inc. After Hybritech was sold several years ago to
Eli Lilly  Co., Mr. Greene became a venture capitalist and
raised funds for Amylin, among other biotechnology companies.
   Analysts said the involvement of Mr. Greene, along with
another prominent venture capitalist, James C. Blair,
bolsters the company's credibility. The alliance with Glaxo
also is viewed by many as a validation of Amylin. These
relationships are critical because many of the company's
research results are proprietary and unpublished, raising
concerns among some analysts that the experiments may be
difficult to duplicate outside the company.
   Amylin officials declined to be interviewed yesterday,
citing the 30-day post-offering "quiet" period rule imposed
by the Securities and Exchange Commission.
   Last month, Amylin received approval from the Food and
Drug Administration to begin testing amylin in human
patients. But development of any marketable product is still
at least five to seven years away, the company has said.
   Since its inception, Amylin has racked up an accumulated
deficit of more than $15.2 million, according to the
company's preliminary prospectus. A final prospectus wasn't
yet available.
   Amylin is expected to have about 16.8 million shares
outstanding after the offering. It wasn't clear if that
number includes the over-allotment option of underwriters led
by Morgan Stanley  Co. and Alex. Brown  Sons.