Politics  Policy -- Campaign '92:
   From Quayle to Clinton, Politicians Are Pouncing
   On the Hot Issue of Top Executives' Hefty Salaries
   ----
   By Jeffrey H. Birnbaum
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Fueled by the backlash from President Bush's trip to
Japan, executive compensation may be a hot political issue
this year. The nation's chief executives, never the most
popular group with U.S. voters, clearly have a problem on
their hands.
   "As a political issue, it's dynamite," says Republican
political theoretician Kevin Phillips. Adds Democratic
pollster Geoffrey Garin: "The whole question clearly strikes
a raw nerve."
   Executive pay has already become a staple of the campaign
trail in New Hampshire, site of the first presidential
primary. "How can we run a country with a president who's
coddling people he ought to be kicking in the fanny?" asks
Gov. Clinton, who proposes allowing companies to deduct
bonuses or severance payments only if those payments are
linked to profits and are offered to employees in addition to
top executives. Sen. Bob Kerrey of Nebraska calls it
"unacceptable" for corporate executives to make millions of
dollars while their companies are posting losses. And former
Sen. Paul Tsongas of Massachusetts argues that excessive pay
is hurting America's ability to compete in the international
marketplace.
   Nor is the threat to chief-executive pay merely
rhetorical: Legislation is gaining steam on Capitol Hill. The
toughest proposal, by Democratic Rep. Martin Sabo of
Minnesota, would prevent companies from taking a tax
deduction for the portion of any executive's compensation
that is more than 25 times the amount paid to the lowest-paid
worker in the company. A more modest proposal by Democratic
Sen. Carl Levin of Michigan would allow shareholders to vote
on proposals that would alter a corporation's executive-pay
policies.
   Business groups angrily assert that the politicians are
just trying to score demagogic points at the executives'
expense. "Congress can yell and scream about things, but they
do not have a proper role in setting standards," says Jerry
Jasinowski, president of the National Association of
Manufacturers. "They don't have the authority." But lawmakers
are moving ahead anyway, with hearings on the various
proposals expected late this month and early next.
   Most of the proposals being discussed wouldn't limit how
much companies could pay their executives -- but would
restrict how much they could deduct on their tax returns.
Currently, corporations can deduct as a cost of doing
business whatever they pay their executives. So, for a
company paying the 34% top corporate tax rate, a $1 million
salary costs it only $660,000 -- with the taxpayers paying
the rest. If half of the $1 million salary were no longer
deductible, the actual cost to the company would rise to
$830,000.
   Even advocates of curtailing compensation acknowledge the
complexities of the issue. For example, would all high
salaries be affected? Would the Chicago Bulls basketball team
be unable to deduct the astronomical compensation of
superstar Michael Jordan? And would highly successful
corporations be subject to the same limits as faltering
companies?
   "The challenge is how to cure the problem without creating
a bigger problem," says Sen. Levin.
   Concern over the perceived excesses of executive pay in
the U.S. have been mounting for some time; a number of
studies have found little correlation between pay and job
performance. In one recent report, Graef Crystal, a
compensation expert, criticized the compensation of Time
Warner Inc.'s co-chiefs, Steven Ross and N.J. Nicholas, who
between them garnered what the study estimated at almost $100
million in 1990. (A Time Warner spokeswoman refutes the
estimate, asserting that it includes stock options that may
or may not be exercised. She places Mr. Ross's compensation
at $3.3 million in 1990 and Mr. Nicholas's at $2.4 million.)
   But for all the studies, it took Mr. Bush's trip to
crystallize the issue. The combined annual compensation of
the dozen chief executives who accompanied the president on
his trade mission was $25 million in 1990, or an average of
more than $2 million each. Those paychecks stood in stark
contrast to the laggardly performance of some of the
companies represented, particularly U.S. auto makers.
   The resulting furor could wound not only the executives,
but also their host, President Bush. Unlike Mr. Quayle, the
president has so far brushed aside the issue. Although he has
said mildly that "boards of directors should be looking very
carefully at these matters," the president has refused to
speak out against high compensation for executives. He also
firmly opposes legislation on the issue. "I don't think the
federal government has a role in all of this," he said at a
recent news conference.
   Bush loyalists say the issue is minor compared with the
larger question of the economy's overall health. "It's like a
piccolo in a symphony orchestra," says GOP political
consultant Eddie Mahe. "You can hear it over the symphony
sometimes, and sometimes it gets a little solo, but it is not
going to carry the symphony." But even Mr. Mahe concedes that
the issue may add to Mr. Bush's image of being an elitist, as
well as stoking the anti-establishment sentiment that is
brewing in the countryside.
   "It's part of the whole populist package that's working
its way out there," Mr. Mahe says. In addition, he says, the
issue "provides a cheap-shot opportunity in the political
process" -- especially for Democrats.
   The Democrats aren't wasting the opportunity. The
president's position "underscores the Achilles' heel of
George Bush's administration," contends Democratic Rep.
Dennis Eckart of Ohio. "He is protecting privilege and
showing a callous lack of concern for the working man."
   Patrick Buchanan, the conservative commentator who is
challenging Mr. Bush in the Republican primaries, also is
weighing in. "You can't have executives running around making
$4 million while their workers are being laid off," Mr.
Buchanan said in a recent cable-television interview in New
Hampshire.
   On this subject, at least, Democrats seem perfectly happy
to share their ammunition with Mr. Buchanan. "It's an issue
that everybody ought to talk about," says House Majority
Leader Richard Gephardt of Missouri. "We need to deliver a
message on this."