Asset-Backed Debt
   Issuers Are Seeking
   Unusual Collateral
   ---
   As Credit-Card-Based Issues
   Decline, Even Boat Loans
   Appeal to Underwriters
   ----
   By Lynn K. Adler
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
"Since a lot of traditional collateral types have been
securitized, underwriters will look for new types of
collateral to securitize," says Mark Rzepczynski,
asset-backed analyst at First Chicago Capital Markets Inc.
"This will be a year for innovation."
   But the innovative offerings, which are likely to be
relatively small, won't make up for the decline in
credit-card securities issuance this year, participants say.
The credit-card sector, recently the hottest area of the
market, will cool because consumers charged less during the
recession and issuers thus have fewer receivables left to
securitize.
   For the first year since the market's inception in 1985,
issuance of asset-backed securities probably won't set a
record. Last year, such issuance surged to $50.3 billion, up
20% from $42.1 billion in 1990, which was up 72% from the
1989 level, according to Securities Data Co. So far this
year, asset-backed-securities issuance is running roughly 20%
behind the year-ago pace.
   Clearly, that will mean shrinking margins for Wall Street
underwriters in assetbacked securities.
   The asset-backed "market will continue to be very
competitive," says Wallid Chammah, managing director of
asset-backeds and fixed-income capital markets at CS
Holding's First Boston Corp. unit, the top underwriter of
asset-backed debt last year, with about $14 billion. Merrill
Lynch  Co. was the second-place underwriter in 1991.
   Credit-card receivables, auto loans and home equity loans
are the usual assets behind asset-backed securities deals.
But in the push to expand the collateral base this year,
underwriters are exploring the possibility of securitizing
small business loans and mortgages on commercial properties,
recreational vehicles as well as boats, says Dan Castro, a
vice president in Merrill Lynch's research department. "There
will be less plain vanilla deals and more unusual
structures," he says.
   Sears, Roebuck  Co.'s SCFC Receivables Financing unit is
planning to sell securities backed by boat loans, Sears said
in a recent Securities and Exchange Commission filing. This
would be the first boat-loan deal since July 1990, and the
first such offering ever from this issuer. Sears's Dean
Witter unit and Salomon Brothers are expected to manage the
boat-loan transaction.
   But, points out First Boston's Mr. Chammah, "those issues
are usually small, and they won't make up for what we lose in
credit-card" securities issuance.
   Citicorp, the nation's leading credit-card securities
issuer, expects its issuance of that type of asset-backed
debt to drop to about $5 billion to $6 billion this year,
from around $9 billion last year. As is common industrywide,
"most of our portfolio that can be securitized has already
been securitized," says a Citicorp spokesman.
   Auto-loan and home equity-loan securities are expected to
expand this year. But again, issuance in these areas is
expected to make up for the erosion in credit-card debt
issuance.