Zale to Reorganize
   Under Bankruptcy
   Court Protection
   ----
   By Karen Blumenthal
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Zale, the nation's largest jewelry retailer, said it
sought bankruptcy court protection along with its Zale Credit
Corp., Gordon Jewelry Corp. and other subsidiaries, in
response to an involuntary petition filed by dissident
bondholders New Year's Day. Previously, the company said it
might ask a court to put the filing on hold while it tried to
negotiate with creditors.
   But in recent days, Zale struggled to line up funds to
keep it liquid, making it apparent that it would have to
agree to the Chapter 11 filing. Before a difficult Christmas
season, it had drawn down the full amount under its $300
million credit line from a bank group led by NCNB Corp. Once
the involuntary petition was filed, Zale also lost its
ability to sell receivbles from its credit-card sales and it
wasn't able to replace those credit lines.
   Zale skipped a $52 million bond interest payment Dec. 2
and completely stopped payments to banks, bondholders and
suppliers just after Christmas. But the company needed access
to more than the $75 million in cash it had on hand to meet
its payroll, rent and other immediate obligations.
   Andreas J. Ludwig, a company director and assistant to the
president, said that $350 million of the financing from the
Chemical Banking Corp. unit will replace the receivables
financing that Zale lost. The Chemical Bank agreement is
expected to have a two-year term and is subject to bankruptcy
court approval.
   Zale called its decision "regrettable," saying it would
have preferred to try to reorganize outside of court. Mr.
Ludwig said Zale hopes to move quickly and expects to present
creditors with an initial restructuring plan in the next
month or two.
   Zale has told creditors it expects to report a sizable
loss for its fiscal third quarter ended Dec. 31, including a
$27 million charge for store closings and a $50 million
write-down of inventory. Previously, it said Christmas sales
were down 11%. The third quarter usually accounts for about
40% of the company's annual sales.
   To improve its operations, Zale also has closed more than
300 of its almost 2,000 stores and reorganized into four
operating divisions. Although the company previously said it
would close more than 400 stores, Mr. Ludwig confirmed that
the number probably will be closer to 500. Zale is jointly
owned by Peoples Jewellers Ltd. of Toronto and Swarovski
International AG of Switzerland.