Gambling:
   Mirage Joins
   With Indians
   In Casino Plan
   ----
   By Pauline Yoshihashi
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
While the agreements are only an early step in the
development process, they signal a fundamental shift in the
nature of Indian casino gambling and how it will have to be
viewed by state and federal agencies and the casino industry
itself.
   Just a few years ago, big casino operators in Nevada and
Atlantic City, N.J., fought the spread of Indian gambling.
But that resistance is quickly being swept away as the tribes
win court battles and gambling wins greater public
acceptance.
   While Indian casinos don't necessarily pose a direct
economic threat to Nevada and New Jersey, the legal and
social precedents may have widespread consequences. Mirage is
only one of several big casino operators looking into new
venues such as Indian casinos, riverboat gambling and other
forms of gambling.
   Mr. Wynn said the two tribal agreements hinge on winning
governmental approval and obtaining financing. "All these
gaming expansions involve many, many steps, and these
opportunities can be hard to assess," he added, acknowledging
the casinos face some political opposition.
   But if these projects and others take hold, they may pave
the way for even greater opportunities. "The primary role of
Indian gambling will be to push the state governments into
{broader} legalization" of gambling, Mr. Wynn said.
   The momentum for Indian gambling was set off by the
federal Indian Gaming Regulatory Act of 1988, which allowed
federally recognized tribes to offer any types of gambling
legal in their states. If a state allows charities to run
low-stakes games for fund raising, tribes may offer similar
games for profit.
   Although the native Americans must enter into compacts
with state governments to offer specific types of games, the
states have relatively little jurisdiction and don't get any
direct taxes.
   Many state politicians have fought Indian casinos, but the
courts have tended to back native Americans' rights as
sovereign nations to offer gambling. Such foes as Connecticut
Gov. Lowell P. Weicker have argued that gambling could lead
to crime, public drunkenness, prostitution and other social
ills but thus far have met with little success in stopping
it.
   The Sac and Fox agreement would involve an entertainment
complex with shops, restaurants and a casino that could cost
about $75 million for the first phase of development and
employ about 2,000 workers. The project, which would be
located off tribal lands, is being backed by the mayor of
Kansas City and Kansas Gov. Joan Finney.
   Detailed plans for the Puyallup casino weren't disclosed,
and the tribe has yet to sign a compact with Washington
state. A dozen tribes are seeking to run casinos in
Washington.
   Although more than 130 Indian reservations offer bingo or
some form of gambling, tribes are now developing bigger, more
sophisticated gambling halls. In Ledyard, Conn., the
Mashantucket Pequot tribe is about to open a casino featuring
table games and other forms of casino gambling short of slot
machines. And in El Cajon, Calif., the Sycuan tribe operates
a $3 million Southwestern-style casino.