Some Lobbyists Seek Investment Credit
   Instead of Cut in Corporate Tax Rate
   ----
   By Rick Wartzman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
These companies, which tend to make big-ticket equipment
purchases, would prefer to receive a special tax credit for
such investments. This is the approach being favored by the
Bush administration, although even the president's plan has
plenty of shortcomings in the eyes of the business community.
   At the heart of the debate lies a fundamental question: Is
the torpid economy more likely to rebound if all types of
companies are given some sort of break, or if
capital-intensive producers are provided with a special
incentive to pour money into new equipment?
   Many Capitol Hill insiders had expected Ways and Means
Chairman Dan Rostenkowski (D., Ill.) to push for an
investment tax credit. Instead, he pledged to trim the
corporate rate to 33% from 34%. And he called for cutting the
alternative minimum tax -- which is supposed to ensure that
companies with large write-offs pay at least something -- to
19% from 20%. Democrats on the Ways and Means panel adopted
these aspects of the chairman's blueprint late Friday.
   Mr. Rostenkowski apparently opted to go the rate-cut route
in an effort to build a broad enough coalition to allow him
to push through the overall tax package. Indeed, some
supporters are painting it as an issue of fairness, because
only certain types of companies would benefit from an
investment tax credit, making it inherently inequitable.
   "We have always preferred lower rates to tax preferences,"
said Alan Kranowitz, senior vice president at the National
Association of Wholesaler-Distributors. "Rate cuts impact
equally on everybody, and the playing field remains level."
   An investment credit is "not a good thing in terms of
long-term prospects for the economy," added Harvey Rosen, an
economist at Princeton University who recently served as a
top Treasury Department official. Rather than having
politicians decide "what's on the list" of equipment to
receive credit, it's more efficient for "the market to
determine where companies put their money."
   But other businesses maintain that a broad-based rate cut
could hurt the economy more than help it.
   The rate-cut paradox stems from the fact that write-offs
for interest and depreciation on new equipment are worth more
at higher tax rates. Although no investment-credit advocate
wants to admit it publicly, it could be argued that
investment-prone companies would actually be better off if
the tax rate stayed where it is or is even raised slightly.
   At the very least, "there is no incentive at all to
invest" under the Ways and Means plan, contended Margo
Thorning, chief economist at the American Council for Capital
Formation, a business group on whose board sit executives
from such capital-intensive concerns as Aluminum Co. of
America, Chrysler Corp. and Scott Paper Co.
   Ms. Thorning said that for the same estimated $17 billion
needed for the rate cut, the government could provide a 2%
investment tax credit that would spur the acquisition of new
equipment and, in turn, "make labor more productive and
promote growth." This view is shared by several prominent
economists, including Larry Summers of the World Bank, who
argued that an investment credit is especially important when
the economy is weak and capital-intensive firms "are
pinched."
   Also lining up against the rate reduction are farming
interests and tiny businesses, which often pay taxes as
individuals and therefore wouldn't benefit from a corporate
rate cut. The analysis by Mr. Prakken, a vice president at
Laurence H. Meyer  Associates, shows that the after-tax cost
of capital to a company investing in a piece of equipment
would decrease by 2.9% if a 2% investment tax credit were
adopted. But the cost of capital would go up by 0.5% if the
tax rate were lowered by one percentage point. The Prakken
model makes several key assumptions, including that interest
rates hold steady.
   The Bush administration, while not pushing for the
permanent investment credit that many companies covet,
proposes an allowance that would provide for additional
first-year depreciation equal to 15% of the price of a piece
of equipment. According to the Prakken analysis, this would
reduce the investing company's cost of capital by 1.3%. The
main worry among some corporations is that the Bush plan,
which is estimated to cost $1.7 billion, has too short a
timetable to be effective.
   Any tax bill has winners and losers. The latest split in
the business community mirrors one that occurred in 1986,
when Congress eliminated the investment tax credit altogether
and decreased the corporate tax rate to 34% from 46%. "The
same kind of tension" is still there, noted Joel Slemrod, an
economist at the University of Michigan's business school.
   Whether the rate cut will even stay on the table for long
is uncertain, however. One lobbyist here said he could see
the Democrats taking the money slated for the rate reduction
and shifting it to an investment tax credit as well as a
home-buyer's credit. "If they start playing around with the
money," he said, "I'm not sure all of it will stay within the
business community."