Media:
   Syndicators Peddle Fewer New TV Shows
   ----
   By Kevin Goldman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Daunted by the success of returning programs, syndicators
have cut back sharply on the number of new shows they will
try to get on the air. The market used to roll out new
programs at a dizzying pace, producing many expensive flops.
But at this year's convention, only nine new programs from
major producers will be on the block, less than half the crop
in 1989.
   Most stations with marginal shows appear to be unwilling
to gamble on unknown programs that could send their ratings
even lower. "The syndication business is dismal," says Carl
{Bud} Carey, president of Times Mirror Co.'s broadcasting
division, which owns four stations. "There are few time
periods for new product, and there are slim pickings among
the new shows."
   In fact, there is such a paucity that WCBS in New York is
replacing a struggling syndicated show, "Candid Camera," with
a half-hour local newscast in the 4 p.m. slot. "There isn't a
lot out there, and development for 1992-93 doesn't look
good," says Roger Colloff, general manager of the CBS Inc.
station. "It's a business of feast or famine, and there are
few feasting."
   This year's limited selection is good news for incumbent
shows, especially a few weaker ones -- like Geraldo Rivera's
"Now It Can Be Told" news magazine and "Jenny Jones," a
daytime talk show -- that would have been cancellation
candidates.
   It could also produce a scramble by stations to renew
established entries, resulting in higher fees for such
successful sellers as King World Productions Inc. ("Wheel of
Fortune," "Jeopardy]" and the Oprah Winfrey talk show) and
Paramount Communications Inc.'s television subsidiary
("Entertainment Tonight" and "Star Trek: The Next
Generation").
   The newcomer with the highest profile: "You Bet Your
Life," a new version of the highly successful quiz show that
premiered in 1950, ran for 11 years and starred Groucho Marx.
The revival features Bill Cosby, who may fare better than
comedian Buddy Hackett, who hosted a short-lived revival of
the show in 1980.
   "You Bet Your Life," which will usually air in one of the
two half-hour slots that lead into the start of prime time at
8 p.m., has already been sold to 82 stations, says Bob
Jacobs, president of the distribution division of
Carsey-Werner Co., which also produces "The Cosby Show" on
NBC.
   The biggest turf battle, however, is for the late-night
audience. NBC's Johnny Carson, who has dominated that time
slot for years, is set to retire May 22. He will be succeeded
at "The Tonight Show" by Jay Leno, but changing a longtime
host often leads viewers to explore alternatives.
   Furthermore, in October ABC canceled "Into the Night," its
fifth failed attempt to find a follow-up for "Nightline,"
which ends at midnight. That created even more buyers for
syndicators. And CBS affiliates often delay the network's
11:30 p.m. hodgepodge of cheaply produced crime shows by half
an hour, opening up still more late time slots.
   Among those who hope to draw late-night viewers from
"Tonight" and the "Arsenio Hall Show": Actress Whoopi
Goldberg; snide comedian Dennis Miller; radio's popular
bare-knuckle conservative, Rush Limbaugh; and former
Philadelphia talk show host Jane Whitney. And King World is
considering letting stations run a second play of Oprah's
daytime show in the late-night slot.
   "With all the changes taking place in late night, we feel
the opportunity for someone new to come into the franchise is
there," says Phil Oldham, executive vice president of Genesis
Entertainment, which is producing the Whoopi Goldberg series.
Genesis, owned by Gannaway Enterprises Inc., has committed
$13 million to the show. Ms. Goldberg will also be the
executive producer of the half-hour nightly series, which
will consist of a single celebrity interview each night.
   The most unlikely late-night effort comes from the
bombastic Mr. Limbaugh, who is being syndicated by Multimedia
Inc.'s entertainment division. His show will offer no guests,
no sidekick, no band and an abundance of the politically
incorrect. In his daily diatribe on the radio, the
anti-abortion conservative used to play a vacuum cleaner when
he mentioned abortion, and he regularly calls feminists
"femi-Nazis." He never mentions Gov. Michael Dukakis by name
-- he is simply "The Loser."
   Warner Bros. is set to roll out "Night Talk" in March with
Ms. Whitney. "There's an entire demographic of working women
who are being ignored out there late at night, which is
dominated by male hosts," says Scott Carlin, a senior vice
president at the Time Warner Inc. television unit.
   By day, the dial is so crowded with jawboning that only
two series will try to join the current cast. Vicki Lawrence,
the former sidekick of Carol Burnett, star of "Mama's Family"
and host of "Win, Lose or Draw," will have a one-hour daily
program. Kitty Kelley, author of best-selling biographies of
Nancy Reagan and Frank Sinatra, will host another, featuring
celebrity interviews.
   Two new game shows, "How's Your Love Life?" and "That's
Amore," will try to tap into the trend of inquiring about
dating and the bedroom, a format pioneered by "Love
Connection" and taken leaps further -- in terms of
questionable taste, at least -- by "Studs" from News Corp.'s
Fox Television subsidiary.
   In "That's Amore," produced by Westinghouse Electric
Corp.'s Group W Productions, married couples air their
differences. Each person brings along someone to defend him
or her, like a mother or a friend. The show is a direct steal
from a show airing in Italy and, in fact, uses the same host,
Luca Barbareschi.
   "You can laugh at this because these marriages aren't in
trouble," says Dirk Zimmerman, president of Group W
Productions. "These are people who are really trying to work
out their problems."
   "How's Your Love Life?" from Viacom Inc. "takes advantage
of the present morals," meaning loosened standards on
premarital sex, says Henry Schleiff, chairman of Viacom's
broadcast and entertainment units.
   Contestants ask a three-member celebrity panel for advice
on love. In the pilot, a college student, dating a woman 13
years older than he is, seeks counsel from John Davidson, a
dimpled middle-aged crooner and onetime host of "That's
Incredible." The student wants to know whether he should
continue to live with Mom and Dad or move in with his
girlfriend. In the end, he decides to take the plunge.