Swedish Bank Gets
   Big Capital Infusion
   To Offset '91 Losses
Foereningsbanken's loan-loss provisions represented 2.8%
of total loans outstanding. Nonperforming credits climbed to
5.4 billion kronor by year end, or 5.4% of loans outstanding,
the bank said.
   That's one of the highest figures in Sweden's troubled
banking industry, which has been battered by a deep economic
recession, a sour real estate market and the collapse of
several finance and property companies during the past 18
months.
   Foereningsbanken President Bo Soederberg, installed in a
sweeping managment shake-up last year, admitted lax lending
policy during the late 1980s was to blame for much of the
bank's flood of red ink. He warned provisions probably would
remain at the same level during the current year, but held
out hopes that tough cost-cutting and enhanced earning
capacity could shrink 1992 operating losses somewhat.
   At year end, the bank's capital ratio had slipped to 8.1%,
marginally above the new international capital adequacy
standards that will take effect at the end of 1992. That
shaky capital base spurred several key owners, including
Swedish insurer Lansfoersaekringsbolgen and national farming
coop LRF-gruppen to agree to inject 1 billion kronor in new
capital, thus increasing the bank's capital ratio to 9.4%.
   Buoyed by that show of support, Mr. Soederberg reaffirmed
plans to transform the bank to a joint stock company from its
previous cooperative ownership later this year. That step is
a prelude to plans for an initial public share offering to
raise an estimated 2 billion kronor next year, the bank chief
added.
   Like Sweden's sprawling federation of savings banks,
Foereningsbanken's ownership structure has hampered attempts
to raise new capital in public markets. Both the savings
banks and coop banks have streamlined their structure to
reduce overhead in recent months after piling up huge losses
in aggressive, but failed attempts to compete with big
Stockholm-based commercial banks in recent years.