Technology:
   Analog Devices
   Has Multimedia
   Signal Processor
   ----
   By William M. Bulkeley
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The multipurpose devices do in one chip jobs that usually
require separate processors for each task. As a result,
software programmers can write programs that take advantage
of a signal-processing chip without designing such a chip
themselves. Moreover, because it can perform many functions,
the chip is likely to be used in many different computers,
Analog officials said.
   "This is a really big deal," said Kenneth Krechmer, an
analyst with Action Consulting Group, Palo Alto, Calif. "It's
a way of bringing it all together," he said.
   Signal processors are semiconductors that transform analog
information, such as voice, images and sound, into the
digital information that can be understood, stored and
manipulated by computers. Today, special signal-processor
chips are crafted by semiconductor companies to make
different items such as: high-speed modems, for sending and
receiving information; compression chips for shrinking and
reconstituting pictures or sound sent over phone lines;
text-to-speech devices that will let the computer read
information to a phone caller.
   Digicom Systems Inc., a Milpitas, Calif., maker of
high-speed modems, said it will use the signal processor in
its $399 high-speed modems for transmitting data from one
computer to another. Jason Blazensky, Digicom's director of
marketing, said, "A digital signal processor, which in the
past has been fixed in silicon, can now be opened up for
other developers."
   Mr. Blazensky said the $25 Analog chip set is competitive
in price with existing modem chips. "Now the hardware of the
high-speed modem cost-justifies the expense of multimedia."
Many buyers have been reluctant to equip their computers for
multimedia by buying circuit boards for sound, pictures,
motion and voice, each of which can cost $200 or more.
   Among other companies working with Analog Devices, Xing
Technology Inc., Seattle, is developing software that will
let Analog's chips compress and store still photos and video.
Lernout  Hauspie Speech Products, based in Brussels, is
providing software for speech processing. For example, a
computer user with the Analog signal processor and the
Lernout  Hauspie software could use a computer as an
answering machine that could store and forward calls, turn
text into voice and recognize some words spoken to it.
   In late trading on the New York Stock Exchange yesterday,
Analog shares were quoted at $9.125, up 12.5 cents.