RTC Pays Notes
   Of $3.1 Billion
   On First Gibraltar
   ----
   By Christi Harlan
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
By prepaying the 10-year notes, the RTC will save on
interest and other costs, but estimates of the total savings
vary widely because of tax benefits attached to the notes. In
First Gibraltar's case, the RTC expects the prepayment to
save about $300 million, although its formal estimate pegs
the savings at somewhere from $178 million to $600 million,
depending on when the thrift exercises its tax benefits.
   First Gibraltar was one of 23 thrifts created in 1988 in
Texas and Oklahoma with assets and deposits from scores of
failed thrifts. First Gibraltar was formed from five defunct
thrifts and acquired for $315 million by Ford Bank Group of
Texas along with MacAndrews  Forbes Holdings Inc., one of
Mr. Perelman's investment companies.
   As part of its agreement with First Gibraltar, the RTC
paid the thrift $45 million in prepayment penalties and to
settle other disputes. The RTC also gave up warrants to buy
20% of First Gibraltar's stock. First Gibraltar, which has
about $8.07 billion in assets, couldn't be reached to
comment.
   Like other thrift acquirers, the buyers of First Gibraltar
received substantial government assistance, including notes,
tax benefits and guarantees against losses on certain assets,
because the government couldn't afford to close the thrifts
and pay off depositors at the time. Nevertheless, the deals
were widely criticized for being overly generous to the
buyers, and Congress in 1989 directed that the deals be
renegotiated.
   At the same time as the Southwest Plan deals, the
government sold 20 other thrifts across the U.S. in similar
transactions, issuing about $5.63 billion in notes. The RTC
still hasn't resolved the largest outstanding of those, a
$1.06 billion note issued to First Nationwide Bank, San
Francisco, when it acquired a group of thrifts, including the
defunct Silverado Banking, Savings  Loan of Denver.