Technology  Health:
   Weapons Lab Finds
   Test for Detecting
   Salmonella in Eggs
   ---
   Los Alamos Scientists Adapt
   A Device First Developed
   For Munitions Inspection
   ----
   By Jerry E. Bishop
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
At present, there is no way to know if an egg is
contaminated short of breaking it open and culturing its yolk
overnight to see if salmonella multiply to detectable levels.
   Researchers at the Los Alamos National Laboratory in New
Mexico, where the atomic bomb was developed, said they had
successfully detected salmonella-infected eggs using a device
designed to detect chemical and biological agents in
artillery shells and other munitions. The device was
developed to help verify compliance with arms control
treaties.
   The inspection device consists basically of two small
sound transducers, each about the size of a quarter. One
transducer serves as a speaker that converts electrical
signals into sound and the other as a microphone that
converts sounds back into electrical signals.
   An egg is placed between the two transducers. The speaker
pings it with a pulse of sound of a specific frequency. The
ping causes the egg to resonate like a musical tuning fork.
The microphone picks up the reverberations and reveals the
frequency at which the eggshell is resonating.
   "The eggshell's natural resonance is affected by
conditions in the egg white and yolk," the laboratory
explained in an announcement. "Changes in the viscosity,
density and other properties of the egg white and yolk can
alter the frequency at which the eggshell resonates," the
laboratory said.
   The researchers found that normal, uncontaminated eggs
resonated at a single frequency of 830 hertz or cycles per
second, which is a high G-sharp. But if the eggs were
infected with salmonella the shell also resonated at a
second, higher frequency in addition to the G-sharp.
   So far, the researchers have been able to spot about 25%
of the eggs that were contaminated by deliberately injecting
them with salmonella. "We hope to fine-tune our measurements
to pull out 100% of the infected eggs," said Roger Johnston,
a member of the research team, who described the device at a
science fair in Santa Fe, N.M., sponsored by the Los Alamos
laboratory.
   The idea of using the acoustical detection technique for
eggs stemmed from a conversation Dr. Johnston had with an
acquaintance at the U.S. Food and Drug Administration. One of
Dr. Johnston's jobs with the process technology group at Los
Alamos is to find biomedical applications for the lab's vast
store of technology. The FDA scientist had asked if the Los
Alamos researchers had anything that could deal with the
salmonella problem. Queries around the lab led Dr. Johnston
to Dipen Sinha of the electronics research group, who was
developing the acoustical detection method for weapons
inspection.
   "We are using very much the same type of equipment now to
look at eggs," said Dr. Sinha.
   The researchers said they must still prove the system in
the field to make sure it can detect eggs naturally
contaminated with salmonella.
   The detection device has been reduced to fit in a
briefcase and probably could be manufactured for about $200,
a laboratory spokesman said. On a poultry-and-egg farm
production line it could screen an egg every few seconds, the
laboratory suggested, and probably could be adapted to detect
cracked eggs, eggs with double yolks and fertilized eggs.
   The Los Alamos laboratory said it has applied for a patent
on the device.