Tense Times:
   Cash Pinch Leads Macy
   To Delay Paying Bills
   And Plan Other Steps
   ---
   It Won't Rule Out Asset Sales
   As Holiday Business Sags
   And Debt Weighs Heavily
   ---
   CEO Hopes for `Lucky Break'
   ----
   By Jeffrey A. Trachtenberg and George Anders
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
"This isn't a typical situation," says Lee Abraham,
chairman of Associated Merchandising Corp., a supplier of
overseas manufacturing and marketing information to major
U.S. retailers. "It may mean a significant problem."
   The payment moratorium is the latest in a series of
setbacks for Macy, which incurred a record $155 million loss
for the quarter ended Nov. 2. Now, Macy is caught in its
worst cash squeeze since the giant retailer went private in a
leveraged buy-out in 1986. It is an ominous turn of events
for a 133-year-old retailer whose sponsorship of the New York
Thanksgiving Day Parade has made it a national institution,
whose sales territory stretches from Florida to California,
and whose flagship store on Herald Square in Manhattan is one
of the world's largest.
   Macy's difficulties are another grim reminder that big
debts and department stores don't mix. In the past two years,
a host of retailing groups that borrowed heavily in the 1980s
have been unable to pay their bills. Among them are Federated
Department Stores Corp., Allied Stores Corp. and Carter
Hawley Hale Stores Inc., all of which ended up in Chapter 11
bankruptcy proceedings.
   Responding to growing concerns, Macy Chairman Edward
Finkelstein said in a Saturday interview that "we're
determined to meet our obligations and stay the course." Macy
Vice Chairman Myron Ullman added that the company is working
on a "comprehensive plan" with its investment bankers
Goldman, Sachs  Co. to shore up the retailer's finances.
   Dismissing periodic rumors that Macy might have to file
for bankruptcy protection, Mr. Finkelstein said: "I don't
think it's in our interest to file for Chapter 11. It runs
against our grain. We think we know what we have to do. We
have a comprehensive game plan."
   The 66-year-old executive, however, opened the door to the
possibility of selling some Macy stores to raise cash. Mr.
Finkelstein has in the past always strongly insisted that he
wouldn't sell major properties. Industry executives point to
Macy's I. Magnin specialty-store chain as a logical sale
candidate.
   Mr. Finkelstein also signaled a somber new direction for
Macy in other areas, including cutting advertising costs,
renegotiating bank loans and seeking new equity investors in
the company. Macy must make more than $500 million of
principal and interest payments on its debts by Dec. 31,
1992, an amount well beyond its current annual
cash-generating rate.
   A Chapter 11 filing, of course, would be the worst-case
scenario. Companies that do seek bankruptcy protection,
however, typically end up shrunken but stronger. Federated
and Allied are expected to emerge from Chapter 11 as a single
company in February having shed much of their debt and weaker
stores. Despite the stigma of bankruptcy protection,
retailers are often able to arrange new bank financing, since
new lenders are given preferred status for repayment.
   Macy's precarious position stems from a series of
management missteps and an unexpectedly weak economy. Macy's
$1.1 billion acquisition of the I. Magnin and Bullock's
chains in 1988 has proved to be a serious drain on financial
resources. And Macy's longtime knack for smart merchandising
appears to have deserted it in recent seasons, leaving the
company plagued with excess inventory.
   A sharply disappointing Christmas season has compounded
Macy's woes. Macy hasn't yet reported Christmas-period sales,
but Mr. Finkelstein says business faltered in early December
and then nosedived. Low consumer confidence levels "cost us a
lot of business," he said.
   Macy for years seemed to be the one large retailer that
was thriving after a buy-out. Its well-regarded management
continued to expand Macy even after the company went private
in 1986. At one brief stage, Macy even showed a post-buy-out
profit despite its large debts. The privately held company
also has benefited from the backing of blue-ribbon large
shareholders, including General Electric Co., Loews Corp. and
the Mutual Shares mutual fund.
   Many of Macy's current hopes center on further support
from its investors, which stand to lose significant sums if
the company is forced into bankruptcy. Some of the owners
indicate they are ready to take one more step with Macy, as
they did in late 1990 when they invested an additional $119
million in the company. "There's a lot more flexibility here
than people realize," a top official at Loews said late last
week. "I think they're going to make it."
   Last Thursday, Macy's financial predicament was
spotlighted when First Boston Corp. analyst Meredith Adler
published a bearish report that predicted the company will
have to announce a debt restructuring in the first half of
the year. She also advised investors to sell Macy bonds.
"Macy's biggest mistake has been to be constantly overly
optimistic, and then buying inventory to meet those
expectations," Ms. Adler added in an interview.
   Macy bonds began tumbling once Ms. Adler's report became
public. Within hours, a Macy spokesman issued a statement
denying rumors that the retailer planned a Chapter 11
bankruptcy-law filing. But the bonds continued falling in
price Thursday, stabilized briefly Friday morning, and then
plunged further on news of Macy's payment moratorium.
Analysts at Shearson Lehman Brothers and Merrill Lynch  Co.
have echoed Ms. Adler's concerns.
   Within Macy last week, executives faced a difficult
decision of whether to ask their 40-member bank group or
their suppliers for more forbearance. Macy borrows from its
banks primarily through a $588 million revolving-credit
facility, which is used to buy new inventory. Ordinarily,
that credit line is used heavily in the buildup to the
Christmas selling season; after that, the debt must be paid
off almost to zero in January or February.
   In December, Macy favorably renegotiated its bank
agreement, devising a repayment schedule it felt it could
meet. Terms called for Macy to reduce its revolving-credit
borrowing to $75 million for one week, and to $150 million
for 30 days at any point between Dec. 16 and Feb. 15. Macy
reasoned that its Christmas revenue would be enough to allow
it to reduce bank borrowings and keep paying vendors.
   It didn't work out that way.
   Part way through last week, Mr. Ullman realized that Macy
wouldn't have sufficient funds both to pay vendors and reduce
borrowings, as promised. Macy executives thought for several
days about seeking another amendment from their bank group.
It would have been Macy's 24th amendment since going private.
But seeking such an amendment on short notice would have been
"disruptive," Mr. Finkelstein said.
   So instead, Macy decided to delay payments to its
suppliers. Messrs. Ullman and Finkelstein said Macy
executives personally told as many vendors as possible about
the moratorium. But with more than 20,000 suppliers, Macy had
little hope of contacting most of them in time.
   To avoid further disruptions, Macy will have to find some
means of reassuring both its vendors and factors that it
remains a good credit risk. Factors buy retail payables from
manufacturers at a discount, thereby absorbing the risk of
whether bills ultimately will be paid. Mr. Finkelstein said
Saturday that "the factors are more nervous than the banks,
but we've established some level of credibility with them. We
think reason will prevail."
   Although Macy won't suffer significantly if it doesn't
receive extensive shipments in January, the retail chain will
need fresh spring goods in February and March. Many small and
midsized manufacturers will probably be willing to ship to
Macy after they have been paid for bills due Jan. 10. One
major supplier, Leslie Fay Cos., said it is so confident in
Macy's future that it intends to continue shipping to Macy
its full complement of spring goods.
   However, the factors may not be so accommodating. Factors
handle about 15% of Macy's business, but their actions
influence other vendors as well. In recent weeks, most
factors have tightened their position on shipments to Macy.
"We were told on Thursday that our check would be overnighted
to us on Friday," said one irate East Coast factoring
executive. "Macy needs to pull an ace out of the hole." He
also expressed surprise that Macy renegotiated its bank
agreement only a month ago: "To make a bank deal in December
and then have to do this now is mind-boggling."
   Vendors on both coasts expressed concern upon learning
that they wouldn't be paid Friday. Laney Thornton, chairman
of Eileen West Inc., a San Francisco-maker of women's dresses
and lingerie, said he was owed "money in the six figures."
Mr. Thornton, who said he has already manufactured a
substantial amount of spring merchandise for Macy, said,
"We'll end up doing whatever the other vendors do. Don't
forget, we've been through this before with other retailers.
The real problem at Macy is its leverage. The company just
isn't making money."
   In New York, Steve Stoller, president of Karin Stevens
Apparel Group, a maker of women's apparel, also expressed
reservation. "I'm at risk right now for 50% of everything
we've shipped to Macy in the last month," said Mr. Stoller.
"If my factoring company tells me to go ahead, I will. We
have goods ready to ship for spring. But if our factor says
they aren't willing to take the risk, it would be difficult
for me to ship considering the small size of our company."
Mr. Stoller noted that he has often been paid late by
retailers.
   Even if manufacturers decide to send new goods to Macy,
however, it is likely that many will reduce their shipments.
Virtually every major apparel manufacturer has been hurt by
retailer bankruptcies in the last two years; during a
recession there is a limit to what they can absorb.
   "I've done business with Macy for a lot of years, and
after I get my check I'm sure I'm going to ship again," says
Howard Bloom, president of Chetta B Inc., a maker of
expensive women's apparel. "I'm rooting for them. But I will
have to ship them in a prudent manner."
   Macy's high-debt existence began in July 1986, when Mr.
Finkelstein and other top management led a $3.5 billion
leveraged buy-out of the company, ostensibly because Mr.
Finkelstein feared that eventually an outsider would make a
run at the company. At the time of the buy-out, Mr.
Finkelstein predicted that Macy's sales would rise more than
9% a year, allowing the company to steadily shrink its debt
and show net income of $69 million in the year ended July 28,
1991. Instead, Macy has fallen far short of its projection.
For fiscal 1991, sales fell 7% to $6.76 billion, and the
company had a $150 million net loss.
   Analysts attribute much of Macy's current difficulties to
Mr. Finkelstein's decision in 1988 to make a run at archrival
Federated Department Stores. Although it first appeared he
would be successful, Mr. Finkelstein eventually acquired only
Federated's California-based I. Magnin and Bullock's chains
for $1.1 billion. Canadian developer Robert Campeau acquired
the rest of Federated.
   If the economy had remained strong, Macy's acquisition may
well have made sense. Instead, consumers turned away from
department stores to specialty stores such as Limited Inc.
and Gap Inc., and the recession struck. As a result, Macy's
hopes of shrinking its debt and then selling stock to the
public were thrown off course.
   In late 1990, Macy announced two steps that won it more
time -- at a price. It sold its prized credit-card business
to General Electric, lopping more than $1 billion in debt off
its books and getting about $100 million in proceeds. And it
raised more than $200 million from existing and new
shareholders, using the proceeds to retire more than $550
million of its junk bond debt at a discount. That lightened
Macy's debt load, but diluted the stakes in Macy held by
management investors such as Mr. Finkelstein, who didn't put
up additional cash.
   But even these steps haven't been enough to let Macy
comfortably ride out the recession. Macy's bank debt
currently is quoted at just 65 cents on the dollar by Loan
Pricing Corp., a research firm that follows the bank-lending
market. Those loans are made by a wide cross-section of U.S.,
European and Japanese banks; no single bank is believed to
have unusually large Macy exposure. Executives at one of the
company's two lead lending banks, the Manufacturers Hanover
unit of Chemical Banking Corp., declined to comment;
officials at the other lead bank, Bankers Trust Co., weren't
available for comment.
   Macy's 14.5% junk bonds due 1998 were quoted at just 48
cents to 50 cents on the dollar by the end of trading Friday,
down nearly 20% on the day. Other issues of the retailer's
total $1.3 billion face value of junk bonds fell even more in
price. Those bonds are owned by a wide range of mutual funds,
insurance companies and "vulture fund" speculators in
distressed securities. Several mutual-fund investors in Macy
say they believe the company would be best off turning over
majority ownership to its bondholders, in return for
forgiveness of $1 billion or more in debt. If Macy doesn't
take steps to reduce debt, contends Dan Harmetz, a portfolio
manager at Fidelity Investments in Boston, it will be left
with "a permanent liquidity crisis."
   Meanwhile, the usually ebullient and combative Mr.
Finkelstein struck a subdued note Saturday. "It's been a
long, tough Christmas season," he said. "We'd like to get a
lucky break. It hasn't happened so far."