Education:
   Readers of Latest U.S. History Textbooks
   Discover a Storehouse of Misinformation
   ----
   By Gary Putka
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Among the gaffes: One book said President Truman "easily
settled" the war in Korea by dropping "the bomb," although
nuclear weapons weren't used in Korea and Eisenhower was
president when the armistice was signed. The same book said
Napoleon won at Waterloo and identified the leader of the
1950s' anti-Communist crusade as Gen. Douglas MacArthur,
although it was really Sen. Joseph McCarthy. Another book
placed the Civil War battle of Vicksburg in Tennessee instead
of Mississippi. Yet another wrongly dated the bombing of
Pearl Harbor.
   "These are the worst errors I've seen in my career as an
educator," says William Hudson, a retired school
superintendent who is a member of the Texas Board of
Education. "Horrifying," adds Jane Nelson, another board
member, who says the publishing industry is inept and adds:
"Maybe we need the Japanese to produce our textbooks."
   The 10 books and their teacher editions haven't been used
in Texas classrooms, but many have been sold elsewhere in the
U.S. and are already being taught in uncorrected form.
Although they decline to give exact numbers, several
publishers say they have sold, or distributed for sampling
and pilot use, between 5,000 and 20,000 copies of their
respective books.
   The books, for seventh grade through high school, are
published by the Holt, Rinehart unit of General Cinema Corp;
Houghton Mifflin Co.; the Glencoe division of
Macmillan/McGraw-Hill School Publishing Co.; Scott, Foresman,
a unit of News Corp.; and Prentice Hall, a part of Paramount
Communications Inc.
   The books were submitted for public review in Texas in
April 1991. In November, after favorable recommendations from
the state education board's own panel of textbook reviewers,
and the staff of the Texas Education Agency, the board was on
the verge of approving the books when a conservative
Christian group announced it had discovered 231 errors in
them.
   After that announcement, the board delayed approval for a
month, ordered the publishers to hire outside experts to
conduct accuracy reviews and announced it would levy fines
for every error found. When the month was up, and after the
reviews had turned up many more mistakes, the Christian group
found 162 new errors, leading to even more reviews. The final
tally: about 5,200 mistakes, a number that the education
agency calls "staggering."
   Last week, the education board approved all the books
except Glencoe's, accepting the publishers' promises that the
texts would be corrected before being used in Texas
classrooms. Glencoe's book is still under consideration; if
it is accepted, the fines will total $547,000.
   The publishers say they regret the mistakes and blame them
on their own poor fact-checking, faulty manuscripts from
authors, tight deadlines, and state requirements to include
more material. They also note that many of the errors
appeared only in teachers' editions, glossaries or
question-and-answer sections -- sometimes when the facts were
given correctly elsewhere in the same book. Warts and all,
the books are first-rate, the publishers say.
   "It's very embarrassing and absolutely not the kind of
thing we want to be doing," says Barbara Flynn, editorial
vice president for social studies at Scott Foresman, whose
"American Voices" textbook had Truman using the bomb in Korea
and other inaccuracies. "But everyone agrees on the {Texas}
board level and the textbook-committee level that these are
the best textbooks they've ever seen."
   "This may be true, but it's damnation by faint praise,"
says Neal Frey, whose review of the books turned up many of
the serious errors and led to the discovery of the rest. Mr.
Frey, an ex-professor of history at Christian Heritage
College, works for Mel and Norma Gabler, a fundamentalist
couple in Longview, Texas, who are longtime textbook critics.
By finding factual errors, Mr. Gabler says, he hopes to draw
attention to his criticisms of the books on moral and
political grounds.
   First printings of textbooks typically contain errors
corrected in later editions, but not on this scale. What is
especially chilling to many in Texas is that none of the
hundreds of authors, editors and reviewers employed by
publishers or the state's own education staff and panel of 15
reviewers noticed anything unusual until the Gablers and Mr.
Frey spoke up. The education agency had recommended approval
of the books for a $20.3 million purchase, and the publishers
had already completed their own first-edition correction list
of about 2,000 errors, before the other 5,200 were found.
   Mr. Frey discovered that Glencoe's "American Odyssey"
defined Sputnik, the first satellite, as a Soviet missile
carrying a nuclear warhead. Holt Rinehart's "The Story of
America" misdated such events as Germany's occupation of the
Rhineland and the Emancipation Proclamation. Prentice Hall
said freed slaves were denied marital and other rights in the
Black Codes, which in fact granted the rights. Houghton
Mifflin reported that John Tyler lost the 1844 presidential
election, although he wasn't nominated that year.
   Gilbert Sewall, who reviews many schoolbooks as editor of
Social Studies Review, says the errors are indicative of
deeper problems in the way such books are made. He says the
books generally aren't written or reviewed by top university
scholars, who prefer more prestigious work. Authors
frequently give up much editorial control. Many books are
revisions of earlier works and, Mr. Sewall says, are heavily
rewritten at the publishing houses by junior staffers.
   "Textbooks are put together by teams of people, who
oftentimes have little training in the subject they're
writing," says Mr. Sewall. "The people in the state agencies
aren't trained historians either. States should be doing an
expert review using top outside historians." Most of Texas'
reviewers are high-school teachers.
   William Jay Jacobs, one of three authors of the first
volume of Houghton's "History of the United States," says he
didn't know there were accuracy problems with the book,
didn't see a final manuscript of the book and didn't ask to.
"For me to read the book and check it for factual accuracy
simply makes no sense -- you're talking about one of the
finest publishers in the U.S.," says Mr. Jacobs, who heads
the social-studies department for the Darien, Conn., public
schools. A Houghton spokesman says the company's policy is
for authors to review final manuscripts, but he isn't sure
whether the policy was followed in Mr. Jacobs's case.
   Ms. Nelson of the Texas board of education says the
publishers spend too much money on marketing and sales and
not enough on editorial quality. The board's Mr. Hudson
believes the publishers hired incompetent reviewers. Mr. Frey
says that in publishers' minds, textbooks have become
secondary to other products, such as data banks of questions
that make it easier to devise classroom tests.
   The publishers deny that they have delegated textbooks to
secondary status or that unseasoned staffers work on them. "I
know the dedication of the people who worked on these books,
and I can tell you, it isn't as if we just raced through them
to make some bucks," says B'Ann Bowman, editorial director
for social studies at Prentice Hall.
   Ms. Bowman and other publishers say they have taken
several steps to assure that books are more accurate in the
future, such as adding an additional level of proofreading
specifically to check facts. As for the books in use outside
Texas, the publishers say they will send out correction
sheets as soon as they have completed their final lists of
errors.
   ---
                Historical Fact and Fiction
                                                                                                       

   Errors of fact in U.S. history textbooks range from wrong
dates to misattributed actions and events. A Sampling of
mistakes follows:
                                                                                                       

   "American Journey," Prentice Hall, 2 vols.
                                                                                                       

   WRONG
                                                                                                       

   -- "1789 judiciary Act establishes Supreme Court."
   -- "Harry Truman {became} president after Franklin
Roosevelt's death in 1944."
                                                                                                       

   RIGHT
                                                                                                       

   -- The constitution established the Supreme Court.
   -- Roosevelt died in 1945.
                                                                                                       

   "History of The United States," Houghton Mifflin, 2 vols.
                                                                                                       

   WRONG
                                                                                                       

   -- Exercise asks students to name major Union victories in
1864 and 1865; teachers' edition lists Chattanooga as one of
the answers.
   -- A constitution amendment "needs to be . . . ratified by
two-thirds of the state legislatures."
                                                                                                       

   RIGHT
                                                                                                       

   -- The battle of Chattanooga was fought in 1863.
   -- Three-quarters of state legislatures must ratify
amendments.
                                                                                                       

   "American Odyssey," Glencoe Macmillan/McGraw-Hill
                                                                                                       

   WRONG
                                                                                                       

   -- Students are asked why Churchill "delay(ed) in sending
troops to Stalingrad?"
   -- Among events of the Nixon presidency, "the
assassinations of King and Kennedy" are listed.
                                                                                                       

   RIGHT
                                                                                                       

   -- Churchill didn't send troops to Stalingrad, or
contemplate it.
   -- Martin Luther King Jr. and Robert Kennedy were killed
in 1968, before the Nixon presidency.
                                                                                                       

   "American Voices: A History of the United States," Scott
Foresman, vol. 2
                                                                                                       

   WRONG
                                                                                                       

   -- Explaining failure of Bay of Pigs invasion, the book
states "American troops encountered powerful resistance."
   -- Biographical listing of George Washington says his
presidential term lasted from 1789-1799.
                                                                                                       

   RIGHT
                                                                                                       

   -- Cuban expatriates were the attackers.
   -- Washington's term was 1789-1797.
                                                                                                       

   "The Story of America," Holt Rinehart, 2 vols.
                                                                                                       

   WRONG
                                                                                                       

   -- "53,000 Americans were killed during the Great War."
                                                                                                       

   RIGHT
                                                                                                       

   -- 126,000 Americans died during World War I.
   (See related letters: "Letters to the Editor: "Dumb
Textbooks Beget Dumbness" -- WSJ March 19, 1992)
   920212-0153