Credit Markets:
   Bond Prices End Slightly Lower After More Signs
   Of Economic Strength Initially Spur a Sell-Off
   ----
   By Tom Herman and Sharon R. King
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
But when Treasury bond yields rose to nearly 8%, buyers
re-emerged, and prices rebounded. By late in the afternoon,
long-term Treasury bond prices had erased most of their
earlier losses. Actively traded bonds ended the day with
declines of only about 1/4 point from where they were late
Monday.
   For example, the benchmark 30-year bonds traded late
yesterday at 100 7/8, down from 101 1/8 late Monday. At one
stage early yesterday, they traded as low as 100 7/ 32.
   Corporate, municipal and mortgage-backed bond prices also
fell slightly. Short-term Treasury bill rates edged higher.
   Bond traders were jolted early yesterday by two government
reports that were widely interpreted as signs that the
economy is accelerating more quickly than generally
anticipated. Several traders said they fear a stronger
economy will rekindle inflationary pressures, leading to
higher interest rates.
   This view is hotly disputed by many money managers. They
argue that inflation will remain well under control even if
the economy does continue its recovery. They also say
government bond yields of nearly 8% look highly attractive at
a time when inflation is running at only about 3% to 3.5%.
   But traders said it was very tough to locate bond buyers
early yesterday after the Commerce Department reported that
the index of leading economic indicators surged 0.9% in
January. Analysts had expected only a 0.5% to 0.6% increase.
   The Commerce Department also reported that sales of new
single-family home sales jumped 12.9% in January, following a
revised 4.6% decline in December.
   "Investors are concerned that the economy is gathering
steam and that we have seen the last of the Fed easing," said
Lawrence N. Leuzzi, a managing director at S.G. Warburg  Co.
   Investors also appear uneasy about the potential impact of
presidential politics on the credit markets. "The fear," Mr.
Leuzzi said, "is that, in order to gain the upper hand in the
upcoming primaries, the president or the Democrats in
Congress might step in with more forceful economic measures"
that would vastly increase the government's already
gargantuan borrowing needs.
   In the corporate bond market, BankAmerica Corp. stood out
as the only major issuer of new corporate debt yesterday. The
volume of new issues has slowed as borrowing costs have risen
recently. BankAmerica, the San Francisco bank holding
company, offered $250 million of 10-year subordinated notes
to yield 8.488%. That was 1.05 percentage points above
comparable Treasury issues.
   Elsewhere in the credit markets, investors today are
likely to be offered a huge volume of new bonds by New York
City. First Boston Corp. heads the underwriting group.
   Prices and yields on the bulk of the $858 million offering
are expected to be announced in the morning. That portion may
consist of about $508 million of fixed-rate, tax-exempt
general obligation bonds, and about $150 million of
fixed-rate taxable bonds. In addition, a group led by
Prudential Securities Inc. also will price about $100 million
of zero-coupon bonds, also called "mini bonds," designed for
individual investors.
   The rest of the offering, totaling about $100 million of
variable rate bonds, won't be offered until March 16.
   Traders estimated yesterday that the highest yield on the
tax-exempt New York City general obligation bonds would be in
the 7.75% to 7.80% range for bonds maturing in 2019. The
bonds will carry maturities ranging from 1994-2019.
   The zero-coupon bonds will carry maturities ranging from
five to 20 years. Current expectations put yields on the
bonds in the 6.80% range for bonds maturing in 1997, and from
7.55% to 7.65% for bonds maturing in 2012, some dealers said.
                                                                                                       

   Treasury Securities

   In an unusually topsy-turvy day, Treasury bond prices
first tumbled, then recovered, to finish with small losses.
   The government's benchmark 30-year bonds traded late
yesterday at 100 7/8 to yield 7.92%. That compared with 101
1/8 late Monday, where the yield was 7.90%.
   At one stage early yesterday, this issue tumbled nearly a
full point to 100 7/32. That was just above 1992's low of 100
4/32, set on Feb. 18, where the yield was 7.98%.
   Intermediate-term notes were little changed or down
slightly yesterday. For example, the 6.75% notes due in about
five years traded late yesterday at a price of 100, down from
100 2/32 Monday.
   Two-year notes were unchanged at a price of about 99 7/8,
to yield 5.43%.
   Short-term Treasury bill yields edged higher. The
three-month bills yielded 4.04% late in the day, up from
4.02%.
                                                                                                       

   Municipal Bonds
                                                                                                       

   Prices of tax-exempt bonds ended little changed to
slightly lower.
   Among active issues, the Florida Board of Education's
6.70% bonds of 2022 fell 1/4 point to 100 bid, 100 1/8 asked,
yielding about 6.69%.
   Attention today is expected to be focused on a massive new
bond issue by New York City. A top yield of about 7.75% to
7.80% for tax-exempt bonds due in 2019 should offer investors
one of the highest yields available on investment-grade
municipals, dealers and portfolio managers said.
   A 7.75% yield translates into a taxable equivalent yield
of slightly more than 11% for an investor in the top tax
bracket and should make the bonds especially attractive to
retail investors, dealers said.
   Retail investors already have shown keen interest in the
$100 million zero-coupon-bond portion of the issue.
Underwriters led by Prudential Securities Inc. say they have
already received orders for more than $42 million of the
bonds.
   Despite the city's widely publicized financial woes, New
York bonds often sell briskly because the yields are so high
and because interest income is free from federal, state and
local income taxes.
   Also scheduled for today is a bond sale by Georgia. The
state will sell $566.9 million of general obligation bonds
through competitive bid at 11 a.m. EST.
   Separately, New York state said it plans to sell about
$220.6 million of general obligation bonds next Tuesday. The
bonds will mature in from one to 30 years. Proceeds will be
used to fund various capital construction projects.
                                                                                                       

   Corporate  Junk Bonds
                                                                                                       

   BankAmerica's debt issue is seen by analysts as supporting
the company's planned merger with Security Pacific Corp.
   A BankAmerica spokesman said proceeds from yesterday's
issuance are targeted for general corporate purposes.
   However, analysts said the sale will bolster the company's
capital position and send a strong signal to Federal bank
regulators, who are now reviewing the merger, that
BankAmerica will easily meet the regulators' minimum capital
requirements.
   "BankAmerica has been very active in the capital and
equity markets since last summer," said Joseph Labriola, a
financial institutions analyst at Kidder, Peabody  Co.
   "Much of the proceeds of the preferred stock, subordinated
debt, and equity that they have sold have gone to reinforcing
the company's capital requirements in anticipation of the
merger," Mr. Labriola said.
   In the secondary market for investment-grade corporate
debt, high-grade bonds were 1/4 to 1/8 lower. Most junk
bonds, or speculative-grade securities with low credit
ratings or no credit ratings at all -- were firm to up 1/4.
                                                                                                       

   Mortgage  Asset-Backed Securities
                                                                                                       

   Prices of mortgage securities fell yesterday.
   In secondary trading, Government National Mortgage
Association 8% securities for March delivery were off 7/32 at
99 6/ 32, Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp. Gold 8% securities
were 8/32 lower at 98 23/32 and Federal National Mortgage
Association 8% securities were off 7/32 at 98 21/32.
   In new issuance, three real estate mortgage investment
conduit securities deals totaling $900 million were
announced, bringing this week's total to about $1.1 billion.