New York Taxi Policy Is a Lemon
   ----
   By Allen Randolph
The second step was to impose regulations that, when
combined with natural market forces, created economic
barriers. With no new supply, demand has driven the cost of
medallions up to $140,000 in the market that has developed.
Eighty-five percent of the drivers rent or lease cabs from
the medallion owners. Renting one is so costly that a driver
is reluctant to leave high-density Manhattan with no
certainty of a return fare.
   Non-medallion, non-metered car services offering
door-to-door service can be registered without limit. But
they are prohibited from picking up people on the street and
pay $7,400 per year in licensing and registration fees and
taxes. Start-up costs alone can force a newcomer to operate
illegally until he's able to go legit.
   So the city's third step was to enforce strictly the
prohibition of "gypsy" cabs meeting the public demand for
cheap, efficient transport and of licensed car services
picking up passengers who hail them on the street. One aspect
of the plan allows Taxi and Limousine Commission "peace
officers" to confiscate the cars of anyone caught providing
illegal car service.
   Things have gotten so bad that even the limousine liberals
have noticed. In late January, New York Mayor David Dinkins
proposed, as a solution, still greater regulation of the
city's taxi and car-service industries, prompting transport
expert Ed Rogoff to comment: "It's hard to see how he could
have worked up a plan better designed to honk absolutely
everyone off."
   The mayor's plan calls for new, restricted medallions that
would allow registered car services to pick up passengers who
hail them in areas ill-served by yellow cabs. He would drive
out the illegal competition with a sixfold increase of
enforcement efforts against gypsy cabs. Frank Manzella of the
Livery Owners Coalition of New York, the car services' trade
organization, believes enforcement will be ineffective.
Further, he thinks the cost of the restricted medallions,
$15,000, will force legitimate operators to go gypsy, as
happened in 1987 when the city began requiring car services
to pay registration fees.
   Even for New York, the regulations are rich in absurdity.
A restricted medallion holder will be able to pick up "hails"
only in certain zones. But the zones are ill-served now
precisely because they have proved unprofitable for that type
of full-time service. And the driver will not want to spend
the time to drop off a passenger in midtown Manhattan, where
traffic crawls, only to battle back to the outer boroughs
empty to take on another fare.
   Two groups of customers will be especially inconvenienced
by this micromanaged system. First there are residents of the
city's poorest and most dangerous neighborhoods who cannot
afford cars, and for whom neighborhood taxis are the only
recourse for nonstop service. The second are middle-class
commuters living outside Manhattan, but within city limits,
who rely on hailing a ride from the subways home after work.
Their demand is limited to a few hours each day. A guy with a
registered car can make a few extra bucks by serving these
customers, but not enough to justify paying the city for the
right.
   New Yorkers are not the only victims of over-regulation.
Aspiring Philadelphia cab drivers, for example, must show the
"need" for cab service in an area they wish to serve.
Licenses there transfer for $20,000. There are 0.3 taxis per
thousand people serving Philadelphia, since untold numbers of
potential taxi drivers are prevented from breaking into the
business. And in Houston Alfredo Santos is challenging a
local ordinance that prohibits private jitney service. At
stake is whether municipal governments have any right to
limit access to the transportation industry.
   The basis of the argument is the "right to work" defined
in the 14th Amendment. Clint Bolick, who has written two
books on the subject, notes: "Laws against fraud, combined
with tort liability, can protect the public welfare and
safety without the adverse effects of unnecessary and
arbitrary market restraints."
   Fortunately, where public service is lacking the market
fills the void, even in the face of regulation. City cabs do
not venture into the Homewood section of Pittsburgh, for
instance, where the people are poor and the crime rate high.
But illegal car services operate freely. According to Glenn
Garvin, in Reason magazine, the drivers not only provide
rides where they are severely lacking, but also improve
commerce and communication, drawing the community closer
together.
   Competition keeps rates low. Price fixing occurs only
among drivers allied with a dispatcher who promotes the
service and mans the phone. These informal arrangements are
efficient, inexpensive and safe. Returns are small and most
of the drivers have other sources of income or are between
jobs.
   There is much talk of empowering the urban poor by the
Bush administration. What better example could there be than
Homewood's taxi services? But encouraging enterprise by the
poor means legalizing it and eliminating the threat of a
whimsical crackdown by the government.
   Mr. Bush could find an example closer to home. Washington,
D.C., has one of the most open taxi markets in the country.
The fee for entry is $25. Ninety percent of the cabs are
operated by owners, 50% of whom are black. Owner operators
keep their vehicles clean and well maintained. There are 12
cabs per 1,000 people, and rare are complaints about not
being able to get a cab. Sometimes something good does happen
inside the Beltway.
   ---
   Mr. Randolph is associate editor at National Review.