Hapless Hedgehogs
   Get a Helping Hand
   At St. Tiggywinkles
   ---
   The British Have a Soft Spot
   For the Prickly Critters,
   Therefore, This Hospital
   ----
   By Glynn Mapes
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
This is St. Tiggywinkles Hospital, and patients in the
ward are hedgehogs. Animal lovers send the critters here from
all over England and Wales, often by British Rail's overnight
parcel service, which has a special rate for shipping injured
hedgehogs here. The eight-year-old hospital opened a new $1.9
million building in November.
   St. Tiggywinkles, named after a hedgehog washerwoman in
the children's book "Tales From Beatrix Potter," exemplifies
the growing affection Britons have for this cute but prickly
beast. Informal networks of care-givers are springing up
throughout Britain. In their homes, they tend hedgehogs
poisoned by pesticides, struck by cars or caught up in farm
machinery. They feed baby hedgehogs so they will survive the
winter.
   "Everybody loves the hedgehog. He's a good chap, with
nothing at all against his character," declares retired
British Army Maj. Adrian Coles, head of the 10,500-member
British Hedgehog Protection Society. "All he does is eat
beetles, wood lice and slugs -- and who likes beetles, wood
lice and slugs?"
   Indeed, in England hedgehogs are called "the gardener's
friend," quite a compliment in this nation of gardeners and a
big reason for hedgehogs' booming popularity. "They don't
bark, they don't bite and they do good works right outside
your backdoor," says Tim Thomas, wildlife officer of the
Royal Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.
   The hedgehog's appeal, however, isn't immediately
apparent. It sports 5,000 or so sharp quills. It is half the
size of a loaf of bread, very likely to be flea-infested and
resembles a toilet brush. With its tiny feet hidden by the
spines, the animal trundles along as if on wheels, looking
like a windup toy. When in danger, it tucks in its head and
rolls itself up into a ball, bristling. That usually
discourages large hungry animals but has little impact on its
biggest predator: the motor vehicle. Hedgehogs are the
armadillos of England, flattened by the thousand on roadways.
(In Surrey, drivers who hit a hedgehog can confess to a
telephone hotline and pay a small, voluntary fine.)
   Unrelated to porcupines, hedgehogs don't exist in the wild
in North America. They first appeared in Europe 15 million
years ago -- well before saber-toothed tigers and woolly
mammoths -- and have always managed to survive their enemies.
One was Queen Elizabeth I, who declared them vermin and put a
three-pence bounty on their heads, falsely accusing them of
sucking milk from cows' udders and stealing grain.
   Nonsense, says Elaine Drewery, postmistress of tiny
Authorpe, Lincolnshire (pop. 100). "These animals are our
heritage -- we should be nurturing them."
   Considered the doyenne of England's hedgehog ladies, Ms.
Drewery, a 52-year-old grandmother, runs Hedgehog Care, a
network of about 150 volunteers in the English Midlands who
nurse injured and orphaned hedgehogs in their homes. Her
cottage, which is also Authorpe's post office and
dog-clipping parlor, is teeming with the creatures.
   `I regard hedgehogs as a priority -- humans take potluck
here," she says emphatically, leading a visitor through the
kitchen (diagnosis and de-fleaing), the TV room (surgery and
antibiotic treatment) and the bathroom (postoperative
recovery). At the moment, 72 hedgehogs, in various stages of
recovery, are in the house; more are in pens in the garden.
Those that recover are set free; the less fortunate get a
proper funeral, and Ms. Drewery sends a bereavement card to
human benefactors.
   Ms. Drewery has no regrets about the sacrifices she has
made for hedgehogs. "It may seem like sentiment and sop," she
says, "but I've gained from these animals. I haven't given up
anything." After a moment's pause, she adds, "Well, I guess
I've given up my bathroom."
   When tough medical problems arise, however, Ms. Drewery
and other hedgehog fanciers turn for advice to Les and Sue
Stocker, who run St. Tiggywinkles Hospital. Mr. Stocker, 48,
a former accountant, does most of the minor surgery and
bone-setting himself in a well-equipped operating room,
complete with mini anesthesia machine and heart monitor. A
veterinarian, paid on an hourly basis, comes in for
amputations and complicated operations. Hernia surgery is
often needed for road accident victims. Bad teeth plague all
hedgehogs, so patients here get their teeth scaled before
they are released.
   A few patients even undergo brain surgery. Consider
Hercules the hedgehog, who was kicked in the head by a
rhinoceros in an English safari park. He survived the
operation but is brain-damaged and walks in circles. Hercules
is cared for in a volunteer's enclosed garden.
   But why all this medical attention for such a common
animal?
   "A broken leg hurts an ordinary animal as much as it does
an endangered species," says Mrs. Stocker, who handles fund
raising for the hospital. This kindly approach goes down well
with the animal-loving British public. St. Tiggywinkles,
which has no government financing, operates in the black.
   Schoolchildren are big contributors, so are some major
companies: British Petroleum, for example, last year gave
$98,000 to equip an operating-room suite. Mr. Stocker also
contributes proceeds from wildlife books he writes, including
"The Complete Hedgehog," the U.K.'s No. 2 nonfiction best
seller in 1987. Mr. Stocker last week was awarded the M.B.E.
(Member of the British Empire) by Queen Elizabeth II for his
work with hedgehogs.
   The hospital has expanded into the treatment of all forms
of wildlife, from sparrows to deer. Some 10,000 animals were
treated last year. In its new facility, the hospital aims to
handle 50,000 a year, while offering courses for paramedics
as Europe's first wildlife teaching hospital. Atop the new
building is a hedgehog weather vane, "so we don't forget our
roots," says Mrs. Stocker.
   Brits definitely bristle when they think hedgehogs are
being mistreated or merely treated with disrespect. Three
months ago, bulldozers about to break ground for a nursery
school in London's Chelsea district were turned back by irate
hedgehog fans. This was the site of Beatrix Potter's
childhood home, which was destroyed in the Blitz. The
author's beloved pet hedgehog, Tiggy, is buried in the former
garden. (Tiggy became Mrs. Tiggy-Winkle in the Potter book.)
Because of the furor, the nursery school found another
building site.
   Hedgehog mania has accounted for at least one business
success story: Hedgehog Foods Ltd., one of Europe's biggest
makers of organic potato chips, or crisps as the British call
them. In 1981, Philip Lewis, a pub owner in Wales and devotee
of hedgehog jokes, decided as a lark to produce "hedgehog
flavored" crisps. Sales boomed, but it didn't take long for
angry hedgehog lovers to blow the whistle, fearing that the
crisps actually were made from hedgehogs. In fact, they were
flavored with pork fat.
   But then, in 1982, Britain's Office of Fair Trading hauled
Mr. Lewis into court for false advertising. A settlement
ultimately was reached under which Mr. Lewis interviewed
gypsies, who actually do eat baked hedgehog, ascertained what
hedgehogs taste like and commissioned a flavorings firm to
more or less duplicate the flavor. He changed the labels from
"hedgehog flavored" to "hedgehog flavor," and all interests
were satisfied.
   Last year Hedgehog Foods had sales of $3.6 million and is
now a major contributor to St. Tiggywinkles Hospital,
plugging the hospital on every package. "Looking back, it was
a bit gruesome, that flavor," Mr. Lewis concedes.