SafraBank, Republic New York Agree
   To Settle 6 Suits by Investors in Metals
   ----
   By Elyse Tanouye
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
A spokesman for SafraBank and Republic New York confirmed
that the two banks had reached settlements in several of the
investor lawsuits but declined to provide details. The
spokesman said that the settlement amounts agreed to on
Friday aren't material to the banks.
   International financier Edmond Safra owns SafraBank and
29% of Republic New York.
   SafraBank and Republic New York, parent of Republic
National Bank of New York, which participated in the loans
through a Texas subsidiary, agreed to pay investors
$9,550,000 to settle five of the lawsuits, said Richard M.
Heimann, an attorney with San Francisco law firm Lieff,
Cabraser  Heimann who is representing investors in the five
cases. One of the lawsuits had received court certification
as a class action.
   The lawsuits involved five different precious metals
dealers, but the settlement is open to any borrower
regardless of the broker that sold them the investment, Mr.
Heimann said. Final settlement papers are expected to be
signed in the next week or so, he said.
   Separately, the two banks also agreed to pay a Kansas
investor $400,000 to settle her lawsuit against SafraBank and
a broker, said Harold S. Youngentob, an attorney with the
Topeka, Kan., law firm Goodell, Stratton, Edmonds  Palmer.
The investor, Betty Moore Stowers, said she had lost $1.04
million in the precious metals investment.
   Other lawsuits are still pending. But Charles J. Murray,
an attorney representing investors in five other lawsuits
against SafraBank and brokers, said he received a phone call
from the bank's attorneys on Thursday night to talk about a
possible settlement.
   Anuradha Vaitheswaran, an Iowa assistant attorney general,
said her office, at SafraBank's request, had sent the bank
the state's proposal for a settlement of its lawsuit in early
December, but has not yet received a response. Iowa seeks
recovery for all investors in the state who borrowed money
from SafraBank to buy precious metals, she said.
   Mr. Heimann and Mr. Youngentob said they agreed to settle
the cases because a quick recovery of funds was in the best
interest of their clients, most of whom are elderly.