Credit Markets:
   Bond Buyers
   Turn Jittery
   Over Rates
   ---
   But History Shows
   Long Issues Do Well
   As Recovery Begins
   ----
   By Tom Herman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
"The typical knee-jerk reaction in every economic recovery
is for people to say, `Uh-oh, inflation is going to come
back, credit demands are going to pick up, and interest rates
will rise,'" says Arthur A. Micheletti, investment strategist
at Bailard Biehl  Kaiser, a San Mateo, Calif., money manager
that manages about $1.3 billion. "That reaction typically is
wrong."
   Contrary to what passes for conventional wisdom these
days, the inflation rate usually falls during the early
stages of economic expansions. Interest rates follow a more
jagged path, often rising temporarily but then later falling,
producing handsome rewards for bondholders with patience.
   "For investors with a long-time horizon, the bond market
is offering yields today that are very attractive," says
Roger M. Kubarych, manager at Henry Kaufman  Co., a money
management firm. "That's because the market has not yet fully
priced in the lower inflation rate that we're likely to get."
   Long-term Treasury bond yields briefly spurted above 8%
early Friday after the Labor Department reported an
unexpectedly large employment increase last month. The
government said employers reported adding 164,000 workers to
their payrolls in February, in sharp contrast to a revised
decline of 149,000 in January.
   But the 8% yield on bonds quickly attracted buyers,
driving up bond prices and pushing down yields. By late in
the afternoon, 30-year Treasury bonds were trading at a yield
of 7.93%, down from 7.96% late Thursday. Seven-year notes
stood at 7.15%, down from 7.19%.
   To bolster their case that inflation will remain subdued,
bond enthusiasts point to the price of gold, viewed by many
as an important barometer of inflation pressures. Gold
recently has been hovering around $350 an ounce, only
slightly above its 12-month low.
   Bond skeptics, though, worry that the government's
enormous borrowing needs, coupled with more borrowing by
businesses, will drive up interest rates. They also say
Friday's employment news means the Federal Reserve probably
won't cut interest rates again anytime soon. Some also
predict the economic recovery will be significantly stronger
than the average consensus of sluggish 1992 growth, and that
stronger growth will heighten inflation fears.
   Nevertheless, inflation fears are probably much greater
than inflation reality, Mr. Kubarych says. Inflation will
decline because of "the continuing stiff business
competition, both domestic and international, that squeezes
profit margins and keeps businesses from exerting upward
pressure on prices. In fact, some of the lowest inflation
rates emerge early in a recovery," he says.
   Investors who can't stand the volatility of long-term bond
prices would be better off with intermediate-term issues,
where yields recently have surged much more than on long-term
bonds, Mr. Kubarych and others say.
   For example, yields on three-year Treasury notes have
surged about one full percentage point to 6.04% from their
lows in early January, says Robert DiClemente, a director at
Salomon Brothers Inc. During the same period, long-term
Treasury bond yields have risen by 0.53 percentage point.
   Mr. Micheletti of Bailard Biehl estimates that inflation
this year will probably be only about 2.5%. By year end, he
expects 30-year Treasury bond yields, now 7.93%, to drop to
about 7.25%. And if the economy slips back into another
recession, which he labels a "relatively high probability,"
then he says bond yields could tumble "to as low as 6.5% by
year end."
   But the path to lower rates is likely to be a bumpy one,
several investment strategists predict.
   Edward S. Hyman, president of ISI Group Inc., a New York
investment firm, warns investors to beware of the dreaded
interest-rate "hiccup," or temporary spurt in rates that
typically occurs in the early stages of economic recoveries.
   "Most of these hiccups have been rather short in duration
and modest in magnitude," Mr. Hyman says. But there was a
"big exception" in 1983-1984, when Treasury bond yields
jumped nearly 3.5 percentage points in a year. "That was a
very long and painful hiccup," he recalls. "I think we are
approaching a buying opportunity" for intermediate and
long-term bonds, Mr. Hyman says, "but I don't think we're
there just yet."
   A similar warning comes from Mitchell Held, chief
financial economist at Smith Barney, Harris Upham  Co.
   "The problem in the bond market is that it fears growth,
any growth, even rates of growth that are inherently
non-inflationary," Mr. Held writes in the latest issue of
Smith Barney's "Credit Market Comment." Thus, he continues,
"it will take time to prove to the market that the modest
recovery that we think is under way will not be associated
with a meaningful acceleration in the rate of inflation."
   With inflation likely to hover around 3.5%, yields of
nearly 7% on five-year notes and nearly 8% on 30-year bonds
"are attractive investments over the longer haul," Mr. Held
says. Over the near term, though, "we continue to believe
that the upward trading bias in yields is likely to continue
to unfold," particularly on long-term bonds. "Our near-term
target for 30-year yields remains at around 8.25%."
   If yields do jump that high, investors should immediately
rush out and buy, advises Mr. Micheletti of Bailard Biehl. "I
think you're going to make a lot of money if you buy
{long-term Treasury} bonds at 8%," he says. "And if they get
up to 8.25%, buy as many bonds as you can get your hands on."
   ---
   Friday's Market Activity
                                                                                                       

   Recovering from an early-morning slump, bond prices posted
moderate gains.
   Long-term Treasury bonds advanced nearly 3/8 of a point,
or nearly $3.75 for each $1,000 face amount. The benchmark
30-year issue rose to 100 22/32 from 100 3/8 late Thursday.
   Prices initially tumbled in reaction to a government
report showing surprisingly large employment gains last
month. The increase of 164,000 in non-farm payrolls was far
above the 10,000 increase expected by many economists.
   At one stage early Friday, the government's 8% bonds due
in 30 years traded as low as 99 25/32, the lowest level of
the year. Buyers reacted quickly, attracted by yields above
8%.
   The employment report isn't as strong as it looks at first
glance, several analysts said. The report "exaggerates
improvement in the labor market," said Mr. DiClemente of
Salomon Brothers. Overall employment "is still flat." He
added that it's still too early to rule out the possibility
of additional interest-rate cuts by the Federal Reserve.
   Prices of investment-grade corporate bonds rose 1/8 to 1/4
point. Investors favored short-term and intermediate-term
issues over longer-term issues.
   Municipal-bond traders are bracing for a deluge of new
issues this week. Prices of long-term issues were unchanged
to down 1/4 point Friday.