LEISURE  ARTS
   Film: Merchant Ivory's 'Howards End"
   ----
   By Julie Salamon
No single aspect epitomizes the success of the book's
transformation to film than the performance of Emma Thompson
as Margaret Schlegel. The Schlegels -- two sisters and a
brother -- are a lively, progressive trio, bourgeois
bohemians living in a comfortable London town house with
their aunt. They are idealists who like nothing better than
to sit around discussing the emancipation of women or to
attend lectures on Beethoven. But they like their creature
comforts as well, taking their puddings and teas almost as
seriously as they do the larger issues of the day.
   Margaret, the oldest sibling, is the pragmatic one. When
her sister dismisses as "uninteresting" the rich man who has
taken an interest in helping them find a place to live,
Margaret says airily, "Interesting people don't get you
houses."
   Ms. Thompson, best known here as the mysterious amnesiac
in "Dead Again," has a clear face and an intelligent
brightness. She lets her shoulders stoop just a little, the
only sign that Margaret ever feels the weight of the numerous
calculations she's always making. Even when she's chattering
-- the Schlegels are big chatterers -- you can see that she's
aware of herself, indeed quite amused by the spectacle she
presents.
   Margaret could come off as either a sap or a hypocrite,
but Ms. Thompson always makes it clear that she's neither.
There's a steadiness to her that allows her a generosity of
spirit -- toward those who agree with her and those who
don't.
   It is Margaret who ultimately links the forward-looking
Schlegels with the conservative Wilcox family. She represents
the bridge between progressive ideas and the rigid code of
Victorian England. But the story's philosophical points are
rarely stated directly. They are, nevertheless, beautifully
integrated into the interlocking stories that all find their
way to "Howards End."
   Howards End is the country home of the Wilcox family, Mrs.
Wilcox's legacy from a brother who went to India. At the
beginning the film makers establish the pull of this
lilac-covered landscape. As a boisterous family dinner takes
place inside, the family follows Mrs. Wilcox (Vanessa
Redgrave) as she slowly walks around her house, while the
people inside embody the densely spiritual atmosphere of the
place itself. Ms. Redgrave's part is brief but poignant, and
provides the critical emotional connection -- initially --
between Howards End and the Schlegels.
   One of the people inside is Helen Schlegel, Margaret's
younger, pretty sister. Like her sister she's an idealist,
but pure, completely romantic. When the younger Wilcox son
kisses her, she immediately assumes lifelong love and
dispatches a letter to her family. By the time he lets her
know duty (a tour to Africa) won't allow them to marry,
Helen's Aunt Juley has already left London for Howards End.
   This "crisis" binds the two families momentarily, long
enough to convince them the Schlegels and the Wilcoxes should
keep their distance. But fate and the narrowness of
upper-class British society inevitably bring them together.
   The film makers have managed to capture Forster's gentle
cynicism without losing the sympathetic shadings he allowed
almost every character. The picture is often very funny with
its cool assessment of righteousness and frailty.
   The casting is impeccable and often surprisingly so.
Helena Bonham Carter, the round-faced beauty who played the
lead in "A Room With a View," no longer seems the pretty
trinket. While Margaret adapts her idealism to circumstance,
Helen won't budge from her pure romanticism. Ms. Carter
reveals an unexpected intensity as she shows Helen starting
to burn, the way people do when their internal battles
overwhelm them. She lets loose the passion she kept under
control in "Room With a View" and it's powerful stuff,
especially in contrast to the enforced gentility that
surrounds her.
   Anthony Hopkins displays again the extraordinary range of
his talent, following his part as the demonic Hannibal Lecter
(in "Silence of the Lambs") with Mr. Wilcox. He's the old
guard, a man whose sense of decency and honor is thoroughly
defined by a certain code. When he deviates from the code he
finds a way to justify it -- until his wife dies and he
marries Margaret Schlegel. It's a subtle portrayal of a man
who's never been forced to think much about the consequences
of his actions, a man who can lightly say, "The poor are
poor. One is sorry for them but there it is. . . ."
   This high level is maintained throughout all the
performances, as well as in the lovely cinematography of Tony
Pierce-Roberts and the score by Richard Robbins. A pleasure.
   ---
   Video Tip: Merchant Ivory Productions has been making
films for nearly 30 years. Among the best are "The
Bostonians," "The Europeans," "A Room With a View," and "Mr.
 Mrs. Bridge."