LEISURE  ARTS -- Bookshelf:
   Suffering the Pleasures of Sailing
   ----
   By Jeffrey A. Trachtenberg
Mr. Rubin developed his love for the water as a boy in
Charleston, S.C., a place he describes as "a peninsula with
rivers on two sides." Having built his first boat at the age
of 13, he spent the next 50 years buying a flotilla of
questionable second-hand boats, ranging from cruisers to
sailboats.
   Those oddly random purchases helped shape and color Mr.
Rubin's most prized relationships. Friends with boats that
worked became accustomed to his radio calls for help. His
family suffered long, hot nights in motel rooms waiting for
parts to be shipped from the nearest boatyard. Darkly, one
boat, named for his wife, even sank overnight at dockside.
   Mr. Rubin shared the same puzzlement at such doings as his
children. "`Where's the Little Eva?' our older boy asked when
we arrived at the marina the next morning. There was no sign
of her. I walked over to the edge of the seawall above the
wharf. Our boat was there, all right, but with only her
cockpit protruding above the surface of the water. Somehow,
in some way, she had sunk in the night."
   Yet so overpowering was Mr. Rubin's need to own boats,
that when one after another proved disappointing, he moved on
with only the mildest of rebukes.
   Not so his wife. At a critical juncture, when Mr. Rubin
owns not one but two broken-down craft, she finally loses her
patience. "Sell both boats and for once in your life get
yourself a boat that you can count on. Buy a new boat," she
chides.
   Mr. Rubin, to his credit, listened. In what provides the
narrative framework for this book, Mr. Rubin finds
74-year-old Clem Willis, a master boat builder in North
Carolina. Mr. Willis isn't much of a talker, but when he and
Mr. Rubin finally turn up their hearing aids, they are able
to sketch out Mr. Rubin's dream boat: a chunky 24-footer that
Mr. Rubin could comfortably handle himself.
   This memoir, though, is about more than rebuilt engines
and propeller shafts. Mr. Rubin also is intent on deciphering
a childhood shadowed by illness. Mr. Rubin's father was a
prosperous businessman in the late 1920s, but when a doctor
misdiagnosed an illness, he developed a severe brain abcess.
After he made a partial recovery, he chose not to return to
business because it would have meant the loss of his
disability insurance and pension.
   "He must have seen the failure not only as a bodily
affliction but as a moral deficiency -- a failure, in other
words, of nerve as well as nerves," writes his son, still
trying to make sense of his father's misery.
   Almost as an aside, Mr. Rubin pauses to apologize for also
choosing the safer channels in life. Rather than go to
Europe, he found a job on the copydesk of a newspaper. Later
came a tenured faculty position. His purchases of secondhand
boats, he seems to suggest, reflected the insecurities
associated with a childhood leavened by the frailty of his
father's health. Modestly, he dismisses his own considerable
achievements as those of a plodder.
   Wisely, Mr. Rubin, who has written and edited 40 books and
founded Algonquin Books of Chapel Hill, N.C., doesn't devote
too much time to unraveling his past. The strength of this
book evolves from his passion for boats, and the pleasures he
finds hanging around the waterfront.
   At such moments, Mr. Rubin's understated style grows
lyrical. "I parked my car, got out, and taking my camera with
me walked down to the water. There was a good view of the
creek, and I could see several dozen workboats tied up at
wharves along the banks. Nets, trawl boards, floats, crab
pots, and spools of wire and rope were everywhere about. I
felt the same sense of mingled fascination and envy that I
always knew at such times, as if I were still a child looking
at the workboats at Adger's Wharf in Charleston, feeling
myself an intruder and wishing I were part of the activity."
   Much to his satisfaction, Mr. Rubin's new boat proves to
be a complete success. Even in early January, the battery
charger works, the diesel engine starts promptly with a
satisfying roar. Throwing off the deck lines in a final
moment of well-earned triumph, Mr. Rubin slowly pulls away
from the dock, breaking through a thin layer of ice as he
moves into open water.
   "The sky overhead was battleship gray now," he writes.
"The houses along the shoreline seemed to be huddled against
the land for warmth. The owl, for all his feathers, was a --
cold. More poetry. Brrr] There was no point to this. Enough]
I turned Algonquin in a sharp arc, cut across the wake, and
steered for Peltier Creek."
   Later, at dockside, Mr. Rubin stretched out for a
well-deserved nap. The envy this reader felt was palpable.
   ---
   Mr. Trachtenberg is a Journal reporter in New York.