LEISURE  ARTS -- Television:
   `Creative' Minds Cry Censorship
   ----
   By Dorothy Rabinowitz
This is not hard to believe; we are talking here, after
all, about writers schooled in the notion that creativity is
all about extreme controversy and causes. In this world of
writers, "being creative" means dealing with the latest
hot-stuff social issues -- themes designed to raise social
consciousness, effect our moral improvement and, not least,
grab ratings.
   It doesn't always work out that way, especially the
ratings part, as Barney Rosenzweig, executive producer of
"The Trials of Rosie O'Neill," can attest. Despite the
apparently inexhaustible supply of social-justice messages it
fired at us in incessant cannonades, this CBS series never
did find an audience. Though the show is still in production,
it now lies interred in its final time slot, awaiting its
end. The show's failure was evidently one of the things Mr.
Rosenzweig had in mind when he complained recently of a new
censorship "more ominous" than any seen before. It's clear
from the context of his remarks that he holds such censorship
responsible for "Rosie's" ratings troubles and its frequent
shifts in time slot.
   "The Trials of Rosie O'Neill," for those who still haven't
watched it, brings to a torpid and guilty America the
escapades of a devoted legal-aid attorney who abandoned her
upper-class heritage of comfort and selfishness to work for
justice and the poor, in between therapy sessions. Rosie, it
appears, is also busy trying to find herself as a divorced,
newly independent woman out doing battle in the workplace. A
new and daring theme if ever we heard one -- whatever will
they think of next?
   The show does have one thing going for it, namely former
policewoman Sharon Gless in the title role. It was far from
enough as it turned out; viewers did not take to the show
from day one, never did take to it, and they had plenty of
reasons. These included the show's high-decibel sermonizing
and a supporting cast of not exactly fresh-minted characters
who work with Rosie in the legal defender's office. These
include a dedicated and invariably angry black attorney, and
an equally dedicated white attorney who is Jewish. We know
this because he wears a skullcap, brings ruggelach to work,
and wants Rosie to eat more.
   Rosie and this rainbow coalition spend their days, it
seems, exchanging homilies, ranting about the system and
holding forth on the high importance of the principles to
which they are all devoted. They do this, that is, when not
stuffing candy bars in their mouths, or gulping antacids to
assuage the pain of ulcers earned in the ceaseless struggle
for justice. They are forever asking Rosie if she's all
right, which she isn't most of the time, what with her mother
troubles and man troubles and, above all, her conscience
troubles.
   In one episode, a Latino she successfully defended shows
up at her house and makes a pass, won't leave, and generally
looks like a man about to cause serious problems. Rosie
starts to call the police and even begins to entertain the
thought that maybe her client did commit the crime he was
accused of. "Why," snarls her fellow lawyer, "because he's a
brown man? Because he's bigger?" This is enough to set Rosie
to moaning that she's probably a hypocrite, and, on top of
that, she figures she maybe sent the man the wrong signals.
   In "The Trials of Rosie O'Neill," everyone is guilty but
the accused. And if Rosie sometimes has doubts -- doubts that
arise out of her success in getting defendants, including
violent criminals, off the hook and back onto the streets --
her colleagues are always there to lend a hand or a homily.
In one such instance, a colleague sagely advises her, "You
can't do the long jump without getting sand in your shorts."
This line -- a fair reflection of the dialogue in "Rosie" --
apparently so pleased the scriptwriters that they repeated it
in the final scene.
   Other arguments to the contrary, what undid "Rosie" was
its quality, or rather lack of it -- not a new and dangerous
censorship. Mr. Rosenzweig, to be sure, isn't the only one
making the charges about a repressive atmosphere.
Scriptwriters have been coming forward with stories about
this or that rejected script or character. As someone
explained in the New York Times interview, writers and
producers want to explore issues freely. But exploring issues
freely, it hardly needs saying, doesn't necessarily mean that
the product will entertain. Most of the time, in fact,
programs flaunting controversy and socially relevant themes
succeed -- when they do -- in spite of the political content,
not because of it.
   The best case in point is "Designing Women," which
delivers politically progressive broadsides with some
regularity, and took honors for being the first primetime
show to deal with the Clarence Thomas hearings. "Deal with"
may not be the most precise way, of course, to describe the
carrying on in this segment, which all but called a plague of
fire and brimstone down on Judge Thomas, the senators, and
everyone else who failed to credit Anita Hill's testimony. It
was just what a viewer of the show would expect.
   "Designing Women" nevertheless works. It works because its
silliness has character and other attractions to tide a
viewer over the programmed attitudinizing. The appealing cast
is led by Dixie Carter, whose imperious style adds luster to
all sorts of moralizing inanities that pop up in the script.
The moral of this story is, of course, that if writers yearn
to "explore issues freely," the first issue to explore is how
to put a decent show together. That way they won't get sand
in their shorts.