International -- Foreign Insight:
   Politician's Anti-U.S. Remarks Greeted
   With Silent Approval by Many Japanese
   ----
   By Urban C. Lehner and Masayoshi Kanabayashi
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
Mr. Sakurauchi, speaker of the Diet's lower house, may
have had his numbers wrong when he said that a third of
American workers are illiterate, but the general thrust of
his critique of American workmanship was "joshiki", or common
sense, to most Japanese. So common, in fact, that it took two
days for reports of Mr. Sakurauchi's remarks to make the
front page of the Japanese newspapers. And even then, the
Japanese media focused mainly on the prominent play the
remarks got in the U.S. media, particularly television, and
on official Japanese efforts to put out the fire.
   "I was surprised by the reaction of the American press,"
said a senior journalist at a respected daily who is widely
regarded as an expert on the U.S. "There's no question that
there is a serious problem {in the U.S.} of literacy, of
reading and mathematics. Americans know that. Everybody knows
that there's lazy workmanship. You're saying, `It's fine for
us {Americans} to say it about ourselves, but Japanese or
Germans can't say it.'"
   But while many Americans are critical of their own
country's failings, Japanese disdain for the U.S. is in
another league. For years, Japanese have gotten a steady
stream of contempt for the U.S. and U.S. products in the
books and magazines they read and the television news they
watch. As early as 1980, a book entitled "The Great American
Disease" was prominently displayed in Tokyo bookstores.
   In 1981, after tiles fell off the space shuttle Columbia
during its successful launch, a senior Japanese aerospace
executive sniffed that "If Japan had manufactured the
Columbia, the tiles would never have fallen off." In 1983, it
was often said in Tokyo that, "To the Japanese, America is a
farm, Europe is a boutique and Australia is a quarry." In
1990, retired Kyoto University professor Yuji Aida argued in
a magazine article that "contentious ethnic groups" would be
"industrial America's undoing" and suggested that the U.S.
concentrate on becoming "the breadbasket of the world."
   And the flow of critical comment has become a torrent in
recent months. Recent weeks have seen the publication of
books with titles like "The Great American Collapse" and "The
Collapse of the IBM Empire." A cover story in the Japanese
edition of Playboy, "The Downfall of America and the Backlash
That Will Hit Japan," featuring pictures of drug addicts,
unemployment lines, homeless people, Magic Johnson, David
Duke and a stern George Bush shaking his fist. A newspaper
article headlined "The Negative Image of American Products"
asserted that American computer components are only good
enough to meet military specifications. On television news
and talk shows, self-styled economic experts keep saying that
the U.S. makes nothing that Japan would want to buy, save
possibly movies.
   And many a politician has preceded Mr. Sakurauchi in
taking swipes at the U.S. In 1986, former Prime Minister
Yasuhiro Nakasone once publicly disparaged Americans'
intelligence. In 1988, before he became foreign minister,
Michio Watanabe criticized the spending and borrowing habits
of American blacks.
   Ironically it was Mr. Watanabe, in Washington for a
conference on aid to the former Soviet republics, who
shouldered the burden of apologizing for Mr. Sakurauchi. He
declared in an interview on CNN that American productivity is
higher than Japanese and {too generously} that American
literacy is "near 99%."
   A leader of the Liberal Democratic Party told a group of
U.S. reporters that there was a tendency in Japan to
overgeneralize from the weak competitiveness of U.S. products
in a few sectors, such as automobiles. He said Japanese know
that "U.S. labor quality is not inferior."
   In fact, some 63% of the $53 billion in goods that Japan
imported from the U.S. last year were manufactured products,
including such high-technology items as space satellites,
telecommunications equipment and computers. American movies
and music are popular, American fashion designers such as
Ralph Lauren are beginning to enjoy a revival and Japanese
tourists continue to flock to the U.S. The study of English
is as popular as ever. The new Cadillac Seville has even
received two favorable reviews in the Japanese press in the
past few weeks.
   But somehow, there is a curious disconnection between
consumer buying habits and voter attitudes. Pollster
Takayoshi Miyagawa said Mr. Sakurauchi's comment "represents
a general perception of Japanese people on the quality of
American labor." He pointed to widespread reports in Japan
that a 1985 crash of a Japan Air Lines Boeing 747 was due to
faulty repair work done on the plane by Boeing. The result,
he says, is "the Japanese people think we should make by
ourselves whatever concerns human life."
   Underlying these attitudes is the drumbeat of media
commentary equating America with shoddy workmanship. And
while some of that drumbeat merely echoes similar criticisms
in the U.S. and European press, the pervasiveness and
frequency of it seems to be tied to resentment of America
"pushing Japan around" on trade, and to a natural tendency of
the Japanese media to root for the home team.
   A case in point is the coverage of the recent problems of
International Business Machines Corp. Many of the headlines
use sensational words such as "collapse" that are rarely
employed to describe problems at big Japanese companies. A
Japanese television news program suggests that IBM has been
defeated by Japanese competition, when in fact most of IBM's
competition has come from smaller, nimbler U.S. competitors.
   The publicity makes it all the harder on Americans trying
to break into the market. Some foreign businessmen say they
encounter Japanese purchasing managers who simply assume that
no foreign product can ever be as good as a Japanese product,
and refuse even to look at samples.