Pannell Kerr Forster Sharply Reduces
   U.S. Offices as It Seeks New Credit Line
   ----
   By Lee Berton
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
He also confirmed that PKF International had paid off its
main lender, Bank of New York, somewhat less than $5 million
after Pannell Kerr partners paid the bank $13 million last
year, severing completely Pannell Kerr's relationship with
the bank.
   Pannell Kerr is currently trying to open a new line of
credit with National Westminster Bank PLC of London for about
$5 million to replace its former line of credit needed for
operating capital, Mr. Brien said.
   "After we restructure the firm, we won't need as much
working capital and since we've sold some of our offices, we
are ready to move forward as a streamlined national firm," he
said.
   Mr. Brien said he would prefer to discuss more details of
the downsizing in early March after boards of accountancy in
states where the company will continue to operate approve
Pannell Kerr's new structure. "But be assured that we're not
going out of business and are emerging from this difficult
time as a strong, viable firm," he added.
   Pannell Kerr recently sold its accounting and auditing
practice in Miami, which generated $2.5 million in annual
revenue, to Grant Thornton and its Chicago office to BDO
Seidman, both major accounting firms. And Pannell Kerr's
former vice chairman, Thomas Donnelly, left last November
with three other partners to form a new company taking much
of Pannell Kerr's work with private clubs in the New York
area. Mr. Donnelly is currently in arbitration with Pannell
Kerr over monies owned to him by Pannell Kerr, according to
parties close to the company.
   As to the spun-off consulting practice of Pannell Kerr, it
will operate as a separate business in nine U.S. cities,
including the six cities in which Pannell Kerr has its
accounting, auditing and consulting practices, Mr. Brien
said. The six are New York, with Philadelphia as a satellite
unit; Los Angeles, San Francisco, Boston, Houston and
Alexandria, Va. Consulting will be in these six, plus
Atlanta, Miami and Philadelphia.
   Pannell Kerr has sold its offices in Denver and Phoenix,
Ariz., to local partners, who will continue to be affiliated
with PKF International, Mr. Brien said.
   According to accountants at other firms and former Pannell
Kerr partners, PKF International has paid off Pannell Kerr's
U.S. debts so it can prevent Pannell Kerr's consulting
practice from dissolving as did the consulting units of
Laventhol  Horwath, which collapsed in late 1990 after
seeking protection under bankruptcy laws.
   Pannell Kerr was a major player in serving the real-estate
market and consulting for hotels, gambling and nonprofit
operations such as clubs and hospitals and lost a lot of
business when the real-estate business suffered a major
downturn in recent years.
   Mr. Brien confirms that its annual revenue including the
spun-off consulting practice won't exceed $50 million, down
from $90 million in 1990 and $97.5 million in 1989. Former
partners estimate that the revenue of the spun-off consulting
business has declined to $10 million or $11 million annually,
from $18 million in 1990.
   PKF International, the world-wide umbrella company of
affiliates including Pannell Kerr in the U.S., has annual
revenue of $425 million and 855 partners. In the U.S.,
Pannell Kerr currently has about 50 partners in accounting,
auditing and tax work including the spun-off consulting unit,
down from 187 in 1985.