Heard on the Street:
   Analyst Cheered Cascade, but Sold Stock
   ----
   By John R. Dorfman
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
But this same Mr. Boksen sold $107,500 of Cascade
International stock for his own account at the brokerage firm
last July, even while he was recommending the stock highly to
customers. This highly unusual transaction raises the
question: Why didn't the analyst keep his money where his
mouth was?
   Mr. Boksen sold the 10,000 shares -- 44% of his Cascade
holdings -- on July 24 at 10 3/4. That was five weeks before
he lowered his rating on the stock to "hold" from "buy" on
Aug. 29.
   In November, Cascade said that its Chairman Victor Incendy
had disappeared and that the company might have fewer stores
than it had led investors to believe. The stock plunged to 2
1/2, and in December Cascade filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy
proceedings.
   Raymond James, which confirms that Mr. Boksen's trades
occurred, says there was nothing improper about them. Selling
a stock while calling it a buy is a ticklish subject in the
brokerage community. But the firm maintains that it's OK, so
long as the analyst was doing it merely because the stock was
up a lot, not because he suspects something is amiss at the
company.
   Mr. Boksen didn't return calls. A Raymond James attorney
said Mr. Boksen has been instructed not to comment because
Raymond James is a defendent in three of the 17 lawsuits
filed against Cascade.
   "All of Bert's activities indicated that he was as
surprised as anybody" by Cascade's collapse, says Thomas A.
James, the firm's chairman. "Our questioning of him,
according to our legal counsel, indicated he was just selling
the stock because the stock had gone up a lot. . . . I find
it very common for people to sell stock when it's doubled."
   However, if Mr. Boksen sold the 10,000 shares just because
he thought it prudent to nail down a profit, he was acting
against the advice that the firm was giving investors at the
time.
   Cascade is "something we've stuck with even though it's
had an awful lot of appreciation," said research director
David Henwood on Aug. 12. "The tendency is, you meet your
investment target and you drop" a stock. But he said sticking
with winners such as Cascade was "one of the reasons for our
success."
   Mr. Boksen didn't sell all his Cascade holding in July. He
kept 12,700 shares, which he discarded on Sept. 4, six days
after his rating change. The second batch fetched 10 1/16 a
share. So, all in all, Mr. Boksen got out close to the top.
(The peak price was 11 5/8 in late August.) Customers who
sold on his Aug. 29 downgrade -- as opposed to taking the
word "hold" literally -- also did fine.
   But people who bought Cascade stock in August -- when Mr.
Boksen had already sold a large part of his own position but
was still recommending the stock -- were likely to suffer
losses. Those who held the stock into October took losses of
20% to 60%, as rumors dragged the stock price down. Those
still holding on when trading was halted had paper losses of
75% or more.
   Last year, when asked if any Raymond James people had sold
Cascade before the downgrade, Mr. Henwood had said, "Not that
I'm aware of." Mr. Henwood said this week that he had been
unaware of Mr. Boksen's July sale.
   Mr. James, the chairman, says the gap of five weeks
between Mr. Boksen's sale and his downgrade indicates that
the two weren't connected. "That's what we are most concerned
about, is if somebody sells in front of a downgrade," Mr.
James says. "If he does it a few days before that's one
thing. If he does it a number of weeks before, that's
something else." He says that when an analyst downgrades a
stock, Raymond James normally scans his trades for the
preceding 30 days. In Mr. Boksen's case, 36 days had elapsed.
   "If somebody had inside information, {he} would never take
five or six weeks' risk" by hanging onto 56% of his original
holding, Mr. James said.
   He added that Mr. Boksen still had hopes of reinstituting
his buy recommendation as late as November. He says Mr.
Boksen "had prepared a draft of a rerecommendation of the
stock" to occur after the now-infamous news conference that
Cascade had scheduled for Nov. 20. Mr. Incendy had promised
that at the conference he would dispel rumors flying around
the investment community. Instead, Mr. Incendy disappeared.
   Raymond James's institutional clients didn't wait for the
November conference to make up their minds. Several of them
sold thousands of shares on Aug. 29, the day of the
downgrade. These included Ascot Partners, Aurelia Fund,
Neuwirth Fund, Nicholas Applegate and Quasar Partners. It's
one more reminder, if one were needed, that "hold" on Wall
Street is often a euphemism for sell.
   Another client, Hansa Partners, sold 109,500 shares from
August 26 through 28, the three days preceding the downgrade.
Mr. James says that this trade took place at Hansa's
instigation, not at Mr. Boksen's. When the firm "reviewed
this particular transaction, {it found that} a good amount of
this stock had been purchased by another of Bert's clients,"
he says. Hansa's sale "was a decision . . . by the customer,
based on charts, to get out of the stock." Gordon Edwards, a
money manager at Hansa, says the firm doesn't comment on any
trades as a matter of policy.
   From the available records, it couldn't be determined when
Mr. Boksen purchased the shares he sold in July and
September. Paul Matecki, counsel for Raymond James, says the
shares were bought "over a period of time." But he declined
to give dates or say whether any shares were bought before
August 1990, when Raymond James initially recommended the
stock. Mr. Matecki says that Mr. Boksen's trading records are
confidential, as are those of any client.