Marketing
   ----
   By Laura Bird
An estimated 86% of products introduced last year failed
to reach their business objectives, according to a survey of
marketers. That's only a slight improvement from the record
90% disappointment rate of 1990.
   "There have just been too many" new products, says
consultant Edward F. Ogiba, who adds that many goods
introduced last year already have been pulled or will be
soon.
   Fuzzy thinking behind new products results in a lack of
clear differentiation from other products and a failure to
deliver on promises, according to the 154 managers Mr. Ogiba
and his firm, Group EFO in Weston, Conn., surveyed. The study
found that 81% of last year's new products were extensions of
existing brands.
   The 15,401 new products introduced in 1991 represented a
3% decline from the record level of 1990, according to
Marketing Intelligence Service, Naples, N.Y. Increases in new
pet products (up 16%), health and beauty aids (14%) and
beverages (11%) offset drops in new foods (down 11%) and
household goods (10%).
   Philip Morris introduced 288 new products in 1991, more
than any other company, according to Marketing Intelligence.
Procter  Gamble, Avon Products and ConAgra ranked next. Yet
when Mr. Ogiba asked respondents to rate companies'
new-product effectiveness, they perceived McDonald's as
getting the highest return on investment, followed by
ConAgra, Anheuser-Busch and PG. Philip Morris ranked ninth.
   Sixty percent of the respondents said their own companies
were "less committed" to new products than they were a year
earlier; some 73% said they had "shifted the emphasis" to
strengthening established brands.
   Though 65% said top managers had little involvement in new
products, respondents named ConAgra's Michael Harper as the
chief executive with the best new-product leadership, for
Healthy Choice frozen dinners.
                                                                                                       

   Test on Marketing Basics
   Taxes Top Managers
                                                                                                       

   POOR scores by senior executives on a test of marketing
principles confirm what underappreciated ad agencies already
know: Top managers may be financial whizzes, but they aren't
marketing geniuses.
   The test, conducted in person with 1,003 chief executives,
chief financial officers and other senior managers, consisted
of 50 true-or-false statements on marketing basics. Scoring
was designed to mirror Stanford-Binet test scores, on which
100 is average.
   The average senior executive scored a mere 79 on the exam
-- one point less than the score for answering "don't know"
to every question.
   "Much of contemporary marketing is based on mythology,"
says Kevin J. Clancy, chairman of Yankelovich Clancy Shulman,
Westport, Conn., which conducted the test. Most executives
tested said an established product's best new-customer
prospects are people similar to its existing customers. In
fact, Mr. Clancy says, most of those people have already
heard, and rejected, the advertiser's message.
   As a group, the executives did best on questions about
market strategy and worst on questions about pricing and
advertising. Many marketing executives wrongly said consumers
could remember a television ad in detail the day after they
saw it.
   "It's a rare advertiser who has a clue what their return
on investment in ad expenditures is," says Mr. Clancy. He
finds that "troubling" in light of the huge sums involved
($126.7 billion last year).
   Of course, many top executives hire people to handle
marketing. Mr. Clancy says delegating may be fine for such
mundane tasks as finance and manufacturing -- but not for the
more critical job of marketing. "If a CEO should know
anything," he says, "he should know what really drives the
business."
                                                                                                       

   Distillers Serve Up
   Spirited Food Recipes
                                                                                                       

   COMING OFF one of the liquor industry's worst years since
Prohibition, some spirits companies now figure consumers who
won't drink more booze might eat it.
   Heublein, Grand Metropolitan's distilled-spirits unit, is
mailing consumers gourmet recipes that call for scotch. The
company is planting a toll-free number in newspaper and
magazine food columns. Readers call to get a collection of
five recipes highlighting Heublein's Famous Grouse scotch.
The recipes, from chefs at five leading U.S. restaurants,
range from barbecued quail with Scotch whisky pudding to
scotch fudge cake (made with one-third cup of scotch).
   Schenley Industries, Guinness's Dallas-based spirits unit,
will hold a national culinary competition this spring, in
honor of its George Dickel No. 12 Tennessee whiskey. Chefs in
10 major cities will design banquet presentations of regional
U.S. specialties -- including at least one dish each using
Schenley's sour mash.
   Meanwhile, Grand Metropolitan's Carillon Importers, which
markets Absolut vodka and Grand Marnier, is sponsoring the
16th annual Grand Marnier Chefs Ski Race series this month.
                                                                                                       

   Odds and Ends
                                                                                                       

   MERCEDES-BENZ recently introduced its super-luxury S-class
models to the Southern California market by parking them
outside Los Angeles watering holes of the rich and trendy and
allowing Hollywood notables to drive them around for free. .
. . More than half of participants in consumer focus groups
do it for the money, according to a survey by Clarion
Marketing  Communications.