Credit Markets:
   Will 30-Year
   T-Bond Become
   Extinct Species?
   ----
   By Constance Mitchell and David Wessel
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
What's behind the debate is the unprecedented gap between
long-term and short-term interest rates at a time when the
economy is slumping. Short-term rates have plunged; long-term
rates haven't.
   "It's foolish for the government to issue long-term bonds"
at rates that are as much as 3 1/2 percentage points higher
than it costs the Treasury to sell short-term securities,
says James Tobin, Nobel laureate economics professor at Yale
University and a former economic adviser to President John F.
Kennedy. His advice: stop selling 30-year bonds, at least
until the economy is back on track and the spread between
long-term and short-term interest rates has narrowed.
   But on Wall Street, Robert Giordano, economist at Goldman,
Sachs & Co., warns that abandoning sales of 30-year bonds
would be "misguided." He says the Treasury "is about to get
railroaded" into curtailing or eliminating the long bond "on
dubious grounds."
   The idea of curtailing sales of 30-year Treasury bonds
surfaced more than a month ago when Treasury Secretary
Nicholas Brady told Congress that the Treasury is "taking a
look at" the amount of long-term bonds it sells, adding that
"the question really is how much effect would you have on
this huge market if you shifted your emphasis."
   In the past two weeks, officials in Washington say the
Treasury has grown increasingly serious about curtailing,
though not eliminating, sales of 10-year and 30-year bonds,
both to save the taxpayers' money and to nudge down long-term
interest rates. It is being pressed to curb 30-year bond
sales by members of Congress and academic economists who say
the government should take every opportunity available to
save borrowing costs. The Treasury is likely to make a
decision before February's quarterly refunding of the federal
debt, when the government is slated to sell more than $37
billion of Treasury notes and bonds.
   Since the Treasury began selling 30-year bonds in the
early 1960s, the Treasury's long-term bond has become the
mostactively traded security in the world. It's considered
the bellwether security for the entire bond market; its yield
is used as a benchmark from which yields on other long-term
securities are determined by the market. Because the long
bond, as it is known on Wall Street, is far more volatile
than other fixed-income securities -- its price moves further
up or down with swings in interest rates -- it is a favorite
for speculators who like to make big bets on interest rate
changes.
   But economists and the Bush Administration are frustrated
at how slowly yields on 30-year Treasury bonds have fallen,
even though the Federal Reserve has been aggressively pushing
down short-term interest rates. In the past 12 months, for
example, the Fed has driven down the federal funds rate,
which banks charge each other for overnight loans, to 4% from
7%. In response, yields on three-month Treasury bills have
fallen 2.7 percentage points to just under 4%.
   But yields on the 30-year Treasury bond have fallen just
three-quarters of a percentage point to about 7.5%. In fact,
the gap between yields on short-term and long-term securities
is now the widest it has ever been. Part of the problem is
that long-term bonds reflect investors' inflation
expectations. Long-term rates in turn directly influence
mortgage rates and corporate borrowing costs.
   Proponents of paring back sales of 30-year bonds argue
that reducing the supply of long-term bonds would give them a
scarcity value, causing their yield to decline and their
price to rise.
   Burton Malkiel, a Princeton University economist and a
student of markets and interest rates, suggests that a
substantial move by the Treasury to curb its sale of 30-year
bonds could reduce long-term interest rates by as much as
one-half a percentage point.
   And since institutional investors are showing strong
demand for short-term and intermediate-term Treasurys, the
shift probably would not cause shorter-term rates to rise
very much, says Maria Ramirez, president of Maria Ramirez
Capital Consultants Inc. Ms. Ramirez adds that eliminating
the 30-year bond would make U.S. debt management comparable
to other major countries, where bonds with maturities longer
than 10 years are rare.
   Mr. Malkiel, like many others, believes that reducing
sales of 30-year bonds might help stimulate economic
activity, cutting long-term rates and thus allowing
corporations and consumers to replace high-interest-rate debt
with lower-rate debt. With lower debt service, consumers and
corporations would have more to spend on goods and services.
"It's the long rate that is important in terms of mortgage
financing," he explains. "I am absolutely convinced if there
were 7% mortgage rates, you'd get quite a pop in home sales.
You might even see some residential construction."
   Lacy Hunt, chief economist at Carroll McEntee & McGinley
Inc., a bond dealer in New York, says that financing the
budget deficit by having the government sell fewer long-term
bonds and shifting Treasury sales to shorter-term securities
could save taxpayers billions a year in financing costs.
   Based on the Treasury's recent sales of $12 billion in
long-term bonds each quarter, the Treasury should be offering
about $50 billion of new 30-year bonds over the next 12
months. At current rates, those 30-year bonds would carry a
7.5% coupon.
   Mr. Hunt estimates that if the Treasury instead halted its
sales of 30-year bonds and took up the slack by selling more
securities ranging from three-month bills to five-year
notes-at an average interest rate of 5%-the Treasury could
save $1.25 billion in interest payments in the first year. If
the Treasury merely halved its 30-year bond issuance to $25
billion a year, taxpayers would save $625 million in the
first year.
   Mr. Hunt also recommends that the Fed simultaneously shift
a portion of its $260 billion investment portfolio of U.S.
Treasury securities from short-term bills to long-term bonds,
while continuing to use monetary policy to keep short-term
interest rates from rising. The Fed's increased purchases of
long-term Treasury bonds would help drive down long-term
interest rates, he says.
   But opponents of the idea of eliminating 30-year bonds
doubt that the Treasury would achieve its objectives. In a
15-page research report, Mr. Giordano of Goldman Sachs said
that a shift away from long-term bonds is "unlikely to lower
long-term interest rates appreciably, save the government
much, if any, money or help the private sector." Goldman is
one of the biggest government bond dealers on Wall Street.
Many dealers oppose a curb on 30-year bonds, which they say
would increase uncertainty about the Treasury's borrowing
plans and, perhaps, reduce dealers' profits.
   Among other things, Mr. Giordano notes that past efforts
by the Treasury to influence interest rates by manipulating
the supply of bonds failed. He notes that the last time the
Treasury stopped selling long-term bonds, in 1967-72, the
shape of the yield curve, or gap between long and short-term
rates, "was only marginally flatter than in other periods."
   At the time, the Treasury, by law, couldn't sell
securities with a coupon higher than 4 1/4%. Since market
rates were higher than that, the Treasury essentially was
shut out of the long-bond market.
   In the early 1960s, during the Kennedy Administration, the
Fed tried to influence rates in an experiment that came to be
called "Operation Twist." At the time, the U.S. economy
looked soft, which argued for lower interest rates. But a
high balance of payments deficit was putting pressure on the
dollar; higher rates would help prop up the U.S. currency. In
an effort to bring down long-term rates while nudging up
short-term rates, producing a "twist" in the yield curve, the
Fed purchased long-term notes and bonds and sold bills. Many
viewed the plan as unsuccessful.
   Other economists at Goldman Sachs argue that the Treasury
should sell more 30-year bonds to take advantage of long-term
interest rates they consider low by historical measures. They
believe long-term yields won't fall much lower.
   S.G. Warburg & Co., another primary dealer of government
securities, also is against the idea of limiting sales of
30-year bonds. "We don't recommend it," says Lawrence Leuzzi,
head of the firm's government securities group. "I don't
believe that public debt management policies that reign over
$3 trillion on debt should be based on interest-rate
speculation."
   Mr. Leuzzi says the Treasury's argument is flawed partly
because the supply is just one of several reasons yields on
the long-term bonds are relatively high. "I believe that more
important than supply, they are a function of inflation
expectations and global credit demand," he says. These are
issues, he says, that can't be fixed by shifting supply.
   ---
   Friday's Market Activity
                                                                                                       

   Bond prices declined, but ended above the day's lows, on
profit-taking and renewed fears that lawmakers in Washington
will make a hasty effort to stimulate the U.S. economy.
   The bond market's bellwether security, the 30-year
Treasury bond, ended at 106 3/32, down from 106 10/32
Thursday. The decline translates into a loss of nearly 1/4
point, or nearly $2.50 for a bond with a $1,000 face amount.
The issue's yield, which moves in the opposite direction of
its price, rose to 7.48% from 7.46% Thursday. In when-issued
trading, the yield on seven-year Treasury notes was quoted
late Friday at 6.50%. The Treasury is slated to sell $9.5
billion of new seven-year notes Wednesday.
   Friday was the second day of declines for the bond market,
following a sharp Christmas season rally. One catalyst for
Friday's sell-off was heightened concern that Congress will
pass a fiscal stimulus package that would break the budget
agreement and boost the federal deficit. Concern escalated
after it was reported that President Bush said "there is room
for some maneuvering" within the limits of the budget
agreement.
   But when asked whether potential defense spending cuts
would allow increases in domestic programs above the budget
ceiling, he said, "Could be . . . or might do something
radical like reduce the deficit, which . . . some people have
a great interest in, including me."
   There was little news otherwise to sway the markets in the
last session of the holiday period. Trading desks are
expected to return closer to full staffing today.
   The Fed released the latest money supply figures late
Friday, but the data had little effect on prices. The Fed
said that its most closely followed money supply measure,
known as M2, slumped $9.6 billion for the week ended Dec. 23.
M1 rose $100 million and M3 dropped $14.7 billion.