Time to Forgive Old Soviet Debt
   ----
   By Garry Kasparov
It is not difficult to understand the disillusionment of
those who, after falling victim to Gorbomania, do not wish
any further to associate their political or journalistic
careers with the new Russian leader. But the pessimism openly
expressed in the Western press also creates a distorted
picture of events -- just as the excessive optimism that
everywhere accompanied Mr. Gorbachev once did.
   The price of Mr. Gorbachev's legacy is well known, and
therefore, at the very least, it is unreasonable to demand of
Boris Yeltsin and the other CIS presidents an immediate
miracle.
   It does no harm to review what happened in the former
U.S.S.R. last year. Rumors about an imminent military coup
caused panic both within the U.S.S.R. and abroad, and
although in the end nothing happened, the alarm was hardly
false. Consider the facts of last summer: The central
government was trying to inflame the territorial dispute
between Russia and the Ukraine; Mr. Gorbachev convened a
meeting of generals; Russian Vice President Alexander Rutskoi
was fiercely attacking President Yeltsin's government with
appeals to military-industrial institutions; so-called
"pro-state democrats" were preparing demonstrations in
support of maintaining the Soviet Union.
   It is also not hard to imagine what the reaction of the
West would have been to the creation of a new "State
Emergency Committee" with a human face. The Gorbachev-Rutskoi
axis, supported by the authority of other "democrats," would
have satisfied the West's need for "stability." It was Mr.
Yeltsin's decisive action -- concluding the agreement about
the CIS on Dec. 8, 1991, and finally finishing off the
scheming imperial center -- that saved us from impending
catastrophe.
   But Mr. Yeltsin is finding it much harder to carry out
economic reforms. An understanding of this requires a precise
analysis of the balance of power.
   The tanks that appeared in the early morning of Aug. 19 on
the streets of Moscow provoked almost unanimous hostility
from all of society -- the people did not want to return to
slavery, while the state machinery basically regarded the
path to capitalism as the surest means of becoming rich. (The
rapid downfall of Mr. Gorbachev has the same underlying cause
-- having outmaneuvered himself, the architect of perestroika
turned out to be not required by anyone -- within his own
country, of course -- and was forced to leave the political
stage.) But as soon as the implementation of global economic
programs begins, unanimity disappears and the balance of
forces changes sharply.
   Whereas productive forces in society and rapidly growing
private business need the constitutional securing of the
right of private ownership, state organs are aiming to
prolong the period of economic confusion. What the officials
want is perfectly obvious -- to exploit their current
position for a smooth transition to newly formed private
structures or simply to guarantee their future. The numerous
criticisms of the team of the Russian vice premier, Yegor
Gaidar, rightly indicate the need for a rapid beginning of
the privatization program. But for some reason these
criticisms ignore obstacles this government faces, for
example the powerful opposition by the state apparatus to
constitutional amendments by the Russian Parliament.
   The so-called patriotic forces in Russia hope to exploit
this split. This red-brown coalition (left-leaners and heirs
to fascists) nevertheless intends to keep ideology to a
minimum. Most probably we will be dealing with an ultra-right
nationalistic party, like that of Jean-Marie Le Pen in
France.
   Today, Mr. Yeltsin faces an exceptionally complex
situation. In making decisions he must take into account the
growing irritation of the population; the dissatisfaction of
the private sector; the pressure of the state apparatus; the
sinister shadow of the red-browns.
   The West can have a serious influence on what happens. It
must develop a program of cooperation with the Russian
government that would allow Mr. Yeltsin to create a long-term
base of support for his reform program. For example, the
start of Russian-American military cooperation, or the
investment of high-technology Western firms in demilitarized
enterprises, would force the military-industrial institutions
to form a coalition with the Russian government. But the main
trump card in the government's struggle with anti-reformers
may be the foreign-debt problem.
   The mention of this problem may in itself raise in many a
skeptical smile. Parallels with Latin America are quite
inappropriate here: The debt of Russia and the other states
has not yet reached the point where even repaying the
interest becomes an intolerable financial burden. Indeed,
even to give an exact evaluation of the debt liabilities of
the former Soviet Union is extremely difficult. The
information given by different authoritative sources varies
in the fantastic range of $55 billion to $80 billion.
   Whatever the overall sum of foreign debt, one thing is
clear. Debt relief and to some extent debt forgiveness are
the most effective way for the West to influence development
of events in the CIS. It is highly unlikely that debt relief
or even debt forgiveness for Russia, as the principal
successor of the Soviet Union's financial obligations, would
be a serious blow to the world credit system.
   Recall that President Bush's decision to write off Egypt's
$7 billion debt at the time of the Gulf War was accepted
calmly. The agreement of Hosni Mubarak to participate in the
anti-Iraq coalition was deemed a sufficient political
argument. By this logic, it would be interesting to see what
weight would be given to the neutralization of 30,000 nuclear
warheads. But the main argument in favor of debt relief is
that it would pave the way to the New World Order -- an order
in which, in contrast to the past's "Realpolitik," morals and
politics cease to be incompatible.
   Let us imagine for an instant that the Castro regime in
Cuba should fall -- an event likely to occur this year.
Without doubt, the new Cuban government would refuse to pay
Fidel Castro's debts to Moscow. It would be impossible to
dispute the logic of this decision -- after all, the money
poured into the communist regime in Cuba by the Kremlin has
in the end brought endless repression and poverty to the
Cuban people. Now let us remember the last two years of Mr.
Gorbachev's rule, when the Soviet foreign debt made a truly
cosmic leap. These were years when the republics grew in
power.
   To make communism stronger, using Western credit -- this
was Mr. Gorbachev's ultimate goal. What we encountered in
this case was not the dismal tradition of Realpolitik, by
which the West offered credit to totalitarian regimes, but a
conscious preference of the imperial communist center to
rapidly strengthening democratic forces. The West was ready
to give billions to save Mr. Gorbachev from the "terrible
conservatives." All attempts by prominent officials of the
democratic movement to appeal for common sense (here we
should mention Andrei Sakharov) encountered a dense wall of
incomprehension, and even hostility.
   The outcome is well known: Communism in Russia has been
overthrown, and the victors have inherited not only a broken
economy and interethnic enmity, but also an enormous foreign
debt. It is a debt with which none of the new leaders has any
connection; a debt that was used for it is not known what
purposes, but most probably for the struggle against
themselves. And it is a debt that now has to be paid at the
expense of the good of the economy.
   Among Mr. Gorbachev's creditors, a special place is
occupied by Germany. Germany granted the former Soviet Union
the greater part of its Western credit, whether it was $30
billion or $40 billion. But in contrast to its Western
partners, who essentially paid for their own fear and lack of
vision, Germany lent money for a concrete purpose: German
unification.
   The dream of the German people, which had seemed
unrealizable, became a reality in literally a few months, and
one can understand the determination of Chancellor Helmut
Kohl not to spare means for achieving the sacred goal. In the
eyes of Mr. Kohl, the removal of Soviet troops from the
territory of East Germany was a big enough prize to allow him
to close his eyes to the use of the Soviet army against
peaceful demonstrators. And the price paid for this "very
nice piece of real estate" was much lower than its real
worth.
   Why then today, after being ravaged by communists, should
Russia essentially pay for the reunification of Germany?
   Western diplomats are now facing certain difficulties in
establishing working relations with the states of the CIS.
This is not surprising, since radical changes on the
geopolitical map demand new conceptions and, most
importantly, an unequivocal rejection of stereotypes. It will
be remembered how tense and uncomfortable President Bush was
over the weekend with President Yeltsin. After all, even
mentioning Mr. Yeltsin's name in the corridors of the White
House was until recently considered bad form. Mr. Bush's
pragmatism nevertheless played a positive role.
   Let us hope that this approach reflects the readiness of
the West to offer Russia a new and balanced cooperation
program. Cooperation, which in the New World Order should
gradually become union, is necessary so that together we can
meet the challenges ahead with confidence.
   ---
   Mr. Kasparov, the world chess champion and head of the
Moscow region branch of the Democratic Party of Russia, is a
contributing editor of the Journal.
   ---
   Correction
                                                                                                       

   Due to an editing error, Garry Kasparov's Feb. 4 article
gave the wrong date in referring to the possibility of a
second coup attempt in the former Soviet Union. Mr. Kasparov
was describing events that took place in December.
   (WSJ Feb. 5, 1992)