Health:
   California Push
   To Cut Smoking
   Seen as Success
   ----
   By Ron Winslow
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
"It's great to be on target," said John Pierce, director
of population studies for cancer prevention at the University
of California, San Diego. But he called for a ban on tobacco
advertising to help keep young people from taking up smoking
and he said new quit-smoking strategies are needed. "We've
got to come up with a better way of helping people be
successful." He presented the report at a science writers
forum here sponsored by the American Heart Association.
   The findings are likely to boost antismoking efforts in
other states and they could bolster prospects for legislation
pending in Congress to fund a $110 million national program
against tobacco use.
   "The California experience is instructive and very useful
for application in other states," said Scott Ballin, of the
National Coalition on Smoking or Health, a Washington D.C.
group established by the American Heart Association, the
National Cancer Society and the American Lung Association.
"It can be done, it can be successful and it can have
impact," he said.
   A spokeswoman for the Tobacco Institute, an industry
lobby, hadn't seen the new report, but maintained that
tobacco use in the state fell mostly because of the rise in
the cost of cigarettes as a result of the tax increase. She
said the drop in use occurred immediately after the tax
increase took effect and well before the public education
campaign was under way.
   In 1988, California voters approved a ballot initiative to
increase the tax on cigarettes by 25 cents a pack. The tax
raises $700 million a year, of which $80 million is earmarked
for the anti-smoking campaign. The money supports public
health advertising, school and workplace programs and efforts
to help residents quit smoking. It is one of the largest
public health initiatives ever launched. For instance, the
U.S. Office of Smoking and Health at the Centers for Disease
Control in Atlanta has a budget of $3.5 million.
   The study, based on a telephone survey covering more than
118,000 residents and taken in June 1990 and July 1991, found
that 22.2% of adults smoked, a decline of 17% from the 26.8%
who smoked in 1987, the year before the voter initiative was
approved. An estimated 27.3% of the rest of the U.S.
population are smokers, the researchers said, a difference of
5 percentage points. In 1987, the difference between the U.S.
and California rates was about 3 percentage points.
   Teasing out the effects of the public education campaign
from the tax increase and other societal pressures against
smoking is difficult, the report says. The tax increase
itself is part of the strategy to curtail use of tobacco. And
researchers believe that a saturation media and education
campaign that includes classroom and work place programs all
contribute to a process in which people reach a decision to
quit smoking.
   About one-half of the state's 4.8 million smokers
attempted to quit during the year before the survey, the
study found, and the number of attempts increased steadily as
the campaign was undertaken. That is one indication, the
report says, that residents responded to the campaign. Other
data indicate that per-capita consumption of cigarettes has
declined in both the U.S. and California alone, but more
rapidly in California since the tax increase took effect.
   Still, only 11.3% of those who tried to quit were
nonsmokers a year later. More than 60% relapsed within the
first two weeks, Dr. Pierce said.
   To help people quit, Dr. Pierce said, the state started,
on a limited basis, a program that in its most aggressive
form included two hours of one-on-one telephone sessions with
special counselors who helped smokers set a quitting date and
then called the day before the quitting date and several
times over the next four weeks. Dr. Pierce didn't release
specific data on the results of this effort, but he said
preliminary success was strong enough that the program will
be available throughout the state over the next year. It will
be the subject of a randomized trial to determine the
effectiveness of the counseling effort.
   The study also found that 75% of smokers refrain from
smoking when they're the only smoker in a group; that 56% of
employees of large companies and 36% of employees of
businesses with under 50 employees worked in a smoke-free
office; and that just 40% of smokers were advised to quit on
their last visit to a doctor.