Wall Street Is Optimistic
   On Capital Gains Tax Cut
   ----
   By Barbara Donnelly
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
What's an investor to do?
   Wall Street's reading of the capital gains tea leaves is
optimistic, at least for now. For investors who are wondering
whether to delay realizing profits on stocks and other
investments in order to save on taxes, the word is: go ahead
and wait -- don't sell -- provided you don't think the price
of your investment will tumble anytime soon.
   "My opinion is that it's very well worth waiting for, if
you can wait," says Charles Brandes, president of Brandes
Investment Management, a San Diego money manager. "I'd say
there's a pretty good chance some capital gains tax cut will
be passed this time, despite the Democrats' response."
   Similarly, Robert Giordano, an economist at Goldman Sachs
 Co., says the odds of some sort of capital gains tax cut
are "slightly better than 50%" this year, so "you're no worse
off by waiting." The problem is balancing the potential tax
savings with the risk of a price drop. "If you're not that
nervous about the price, you can afford to wait and watch,"
he says.
   One plus for those stock investors who want to wait is
that the stock market is providing "a pretty safe
environment" right now, says James B. Stack, president of
InvesTech Research, a financial-market research firm. Despite
yesterday's drop, the stock market "continues to have a
bullish bias," he says, and "election years are historically
favorable for stock prices."
   In other words, if your motivation for selling a stock is
just because its price is high, "hold on," advises Eric
Miller, chief investment officer at Donaldson Lufkin 
Jenrette Securities Corp. "However, if there's some
fundamental factor that has you worried that the stock will
come down, I wouldn't hesitate to sell," he says.
   Of course, no one knows whether the proposed capital gains
tax cut will survive Congress at all, or in the form proposed
by President Bush. Compared with a blanket 28% tax rate
today, the president's proposed laddered treatment would
lower the maximum tax on capital gains to 23.8% on
investments held one year, to 19.6% for investments held two
years and 15.4% on investments held three years or more.
   Capital gains occur when an investor buys a stock, bond or
other investment and it goes up in price. The gain is
realized, for tax purposes, when the investment is sold -- at
which point the government demands a share of any profits
above the initial purchase price.
   Many Washington watchers say that possible variations on
the Bush proposal might involve adjusting taxable capital
gains for inflation, or applying a cut in capital gains taxes
to future, not existing, investments.
   If the top tax rate for long-term gains were to be reduced
to 15.4%, it would be the lowest level that high-bracket
investors would have seen since 1941, according to Laurence
Siegel, managing director of Ibbotson Associates Inc., a
Chicago research firm. That's the rate for investors earning
$75,000 in 1990 dollars, who are within the top 10% of U.S.
taxpayers.
   Whatever the outcome, however, Wall Street sees the
fallout from any capital-gains tax cut as a potential boost
for stocks in the long run -- especially for smaller, riskier
stocks that derive more of their long-term returns from
capital gains than from dividend income.
   "Historically, there's been a very tight relationship
between the capital gains tax rate and the relative
performance of small stocks," says Richard Bernstein, senior
quantitative analyst at Merrill Lynch  Co. An investment's
sensitivity to capital gains tax cuts "increases as you go
out the risk spectrum," he says. That means that tax cuts
help "small stocks more than big stocks and venture capital
most of all," he adds.
   Mr. Bernstein's research suggests that every
five-percentage-point reduction in the capital gains tax
would cause small stocks to outperform the broad stock market
by 12.5 percentage points. That means that if the top
long-term capital gains rate fell to 15.4%, small stocks
could gain an average of 31.5 percentage points relative to
the Standard  Poor's 500-Stock Index, he figures.
   However, capital gains tax cuts could weaken the stock
market temporarily, as investors sold stocks to take profits
on their investments once a tax cut became effective,
strategists say.
   "It may unleash some selling, but that would be a
temporary impact, as happened in 1986," says Carmine Grigoli,
chief equity portfolio strategist at First Boston. The impact
would probably be milder than in 1986, when the tax law was
changed, because in that instance investors had to beat a
year-end deadline before tax increases took effect.
   "There was more pressure to take gains {in 1986} because
they had only a short window to take advantage of the lower
rate -- plus, nowadays with money market rates much lower
than they were then, there aren't a lot of alternatives that
are as attractive as stocks," Mr. Grigoli says.
   The most recent two times capital gains taxes were cut --
in 1978 and in 1981 -- stock prices fell for the first year,
but rebounded after that, according to Ned Davis of Ned Davis
Research Inc.
   "In the eight months prior to the cuts, the {industrial
average} rallied 6.7% on average, then sold off," falling
9.2% in 1979 and 17.6% in 1982, he says. "The sell-offs were
a sign that the capital gains tax cuts actually worked in
that they caused a lot of very long-term and very large
capital gains to become unlodged."
   As for President Bush's grab-bag of other tax proposals --
which among other things aim to spur capital investment, real
estate and consumer spending -- analysts said these were no
surprise. If the proposals raised investors' expectations at
all, those expectations seemed to have been already reflected
-- and sometimes more than reflected -- in stock prices in
the weeks prior to Tuesday's speech, strategists say.
   Even so, as the market continues to digest the tax
package, it could give an additional shot in the arm to
certain stock sectors, including homebuilding, home
furnishings, factory equipment and other capital goods, real
estate, heavy construction and software, strategists say. The
main loser is likely to be the defense sector, which faces
the threat of further cuts in federal spending.
   But, "the most important stimulus for this economy so far
has come from the Federal Reserve," cautions Abbey Joseph
Cohen, a Goldman market strategist. "Lower interest rates
will do the work in 1992. Much of what's discussed {in Bush's
tax proposal} may not have an impact until the economy is out
of the recession."