LEISURE  ARTS:
   Opera: Hockney's `Turandot'
   ----
   By Manuela Hoelterhoff
A cobalt blue bridge with salmon-colored railings glowed
against the nighttime sky as I nearly drifted off during
another musically significant moment, this time the tenor's
familiar last act aria, "Nessun dorma" (Prince Calaf's
apostrophe to the restless, sleepless city of Peking).
   And so it goes with this bewitching production created in
radioactive colors in the Los Angeles studio of Mr. Hockney
and his collaborator, Ian Falconer. Never mind how sleepy
matters were in the pit -- where Bruno Bartoletti was
conducting episodically, rarely shaping grand climaxes and
satisfying conclusions -- never mind that vocally this
"Turandot" was often too pallid to merit full attention. All
that didn't matter very much. There were enough beguiling,
striking, strange images to keep us wide awake and watching
for new effects. Just who was inside the costumes wasn't that
important, really, as long as they didn't rip their trains or
dribble.
   Even Timur looked like he'd just come from the Imperial
Chinese Laundry. He's Calaf's old father, the exiled king of
Tartary, blind now and fallen on hard times, doddering
helplessly through the imperial city with the devoted slave
girl Liu pushing him along. Usually a beggarly presence,
Timur looked spotless for all his travails, his
lavender-striped coat richly embellished with matching furry
cuffs, collar and hat.
   Others have probed the sadistic, sinister aspects of
Puccini's last opera, about a bloodthirsty princess who
deflects all suitors with three impossibly murky riddles and
then sticks their heads up on poles under her palace window
as conversation pieces. I am thinking, for instance, of
Andrei Serban's stark Kabuki-style production with a demented
Turandot spooking through Peking. But the gore coursing
through the heart of Puccini's tale does not seep through the
surface of Mr. Hockney's staging, and I'm not surprised.
   Is there a happier painter alive today than Mr. Hockney
(who arrived for his curtain call beaming at the cheering
audience, his blue shirt and red tie thoughtfully coordinated
with his sets)? The dark side of the human condition he has
left to others to belabor; if anything, his popular pictures
of poolside paradises show a cheerful acceptance of life's
pleasures.
   "Turandot" continues the storybook approach the painter
used in his fairy tale "Tristan und Isolde" a few years back
at the Los Angeles Opera. This time, working with the Lyric's
Duane Schuler, he used conventional lighting equipment,
dispensing with the fancy cluster lights he was experimenting
with in L.A. But the color intensities are the same and
astonishing.
   The most mesmerizing effects have the surreal intensity of
dreams, the stuff of legends. In one scene, a procession of
children emerges from a room so red you think it will catch
fire. In another, the faraway little house in Honan lights up
in a distant blue landscape painting, as Ping, Pang and Pong
(the opera's faintly sinister comics) pull it from the land
of memory with their nostalgic song. Such unusual lighting
effects, always evocative of Puccini's boldly chromatic
score, are not frequently encountered on the opera stage. But
then, not many designers spend months fussing with a huge
model outfitted with a lighting system and puppets, the way
Mr. Hockney apparently does.
   Any difference between puppets and real live opera singers
wasn't easily discernible from William Fallow's shy
direction. Certainly nobody left any sweat stains on their
costumes acting up a storm; not even the three Ps hopped
about much as they rendered snide commentary on the story. In
this production, James Michael McGuire, Piero di Palma and
Douglas Perry sat down a lot, offering a nice vocal blend
while leaving us an unobstructed view of the sets. The chorus
spent most of the time grouped on both sides of the prompting
box; it never became the scary rabble envisioned by the
composer.
   For all that, there were no great vocal embarrassments,
though Dimitri Kavrakos as Timur made the kind of weak and
wheezy sounds one usually hears from the very ancient emperor
Altoum. Ms. Marton remains a powerful Turandot even if that
once exciting metallic edge has dulled quite a bit. Lando
Bartolini matched her in volume, no small achievement, but
how unimaginatively he deploys his attractive tenor: Of
passion, commitment, poetry, there was very little.
   When Mr. Bartolini turned to dry poor Liu's tears in a
rare moment when Calaf isn't thinking of himself -- the
lyrical "Non piangere Liu" -- he could have been asking her
to shine his lavender elevator boots. A newcomer to me, Lucia
Mazzaria, sang Liu's two heart-tugging arias with
considerable technical skill and a narrow emotional range.
Perhaps I wouldn't have noticed, had the upholstered soprano
worn something more distracting than an ochrecolored sacklike
thing that was very unbecoming indeed. Perhaps she could
prevail on Mr. Hockney to add a few lavender stripes and
green polka dots.