Technology  Health:
   High-Fiber, Low-Fat Diet Helps Prevent
   Cancer of Colon and Rectum, Study Says
   ----
   By Michael Waldholz
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
About 110,000 cases of the cancers were reported in 1990,
and 53,000 deaths were attributed to them last year, making
them the second most common cancers and third most deadly.
Americans, on average, consume more than 40% of their
calories from foods high in animal fats. In recent years,
health officials have urged people to consume only one-third
or less of their calories from foods high in animal fats.
   "Our findings . . . provide support for recommendations
that people replace red meat with chicken and fish and eat
more vegetables, fruits and grains to decrease the risk of
colorectal cancer," the Harvard researchers wrote in their
report, which appears in the current issue of the Journal of
the National Cancer Institute.
   The researchers, led by Edward Giovannucci and Walter C.
Willett, compared the eating habits of 170 men who developed
polyp growths to similar groups of men in the survey who were
free of polyps. The researchers found that the men with the
highest proportion of high-fiber and lowfats were 3.6 times
less likely to develop polyp growths than those men who
regularly ate high-fat, low-fiber foods.
   Conversely, "people who regularly ate red meat instead of
chicken and fish had an 80% greater risk of developing
polyps," Dr. Giovannucci said.
   Dr. Giovannucci said the results suggest that while a
high-fat diet may promote polyp growth, even more compelling
was evidence that a high-fiber diet can prevent such growths
from arising in the first place. The cancers cannot occur
without such polyps first being present.
   The findings may be especially valuable because scientists
in the past few years have uncovered evidence indicating that
cells of the colon and rectum can begin growing into a polyp
and then into a malignancy if one or more of several
different genes somehow become damaged.
   In an editorial accompanying the journal report, Sidney
Winawer and Moshe Shike of Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer
Center, New York, said the findings suggest that the
high-fat, low-fiber foods may somehow damage the genes which
normally keep growth of cells lining the colon and rectum
under control.
   There also is evidence that some people may inherit
growth-controlling genes already in damaged form, and
therefore are born with a higher risk of developing polyps
and cancer. But because scientists aren't yet able to predict
who is at higher risk, the new study will probably strengthen
calls for all Americans to consume diets low in animal fats
and rich in fibers.