Former Soviet
   Union Said to Have
   Big Uranium Stock
   ----
   By Neil Behrmann
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
Nevertheless, the study, "Uranium in the New World
Market," says that there is a huge glut of the mineral, even
though consumption will continue to exceed annual production
in the next decade.
   "Inventories in Western and Eastern bloc nations are
sufficient to satisfy nuclear reactor requirements for five
years," says Wolf Gehrisch, author of the report.
   The study forecasts that total world demand for uranium
will grow at an annual rate of 2.1% to 64,000 metric tons by
the year 2000 from 55,000 tons in 1991. But Western output,
which declined "significantly" in recent years, will fall far
short of demand.
   That expected shortfall could be met by higher exports
from Russia and to a lesser extent from other former Soviet
republics and China, Mr. Gehrisch says.
   "The uranium export policies of Russia and other former
Soviet republics will critically affect Western producers
over the next decade and beyond," he says.
   Soviet sales to the West and mainly to the U.S. are
currently as much as 12% of total annual world supplies, says
Phillip Crowson, chairman of the Institute's supply/demand
committee. China is exporting around 1,000 tons a year, he
said.
   Indeed, annoyed about a surge in imports of Soviet
uranium, the U.S. mining industry last month persuaded the
Commerce Department to open an investigation into alleged
dumping. That investigation contributed to a recovery in spot
uranium prices to $8.75 a pound at the end of December from
$7.40 at the end of November, says Nuexco, an international
uranium broker.
   Yet trading conditions were "thin" Nuexco says, and prices
compare with a peak of $43.70 in 1978.
   The Uranium Institute isn't prepared to forecast prices,
but it says that strategic uranium stockpiles of the U.S. and
the former U.S.S.R. "exceed foreseeable needs" and
"potentially some of this material could be disposed of in
the market." Germany and Canada have sold uranium from
strategic stockpiles and Australia is about to follow suit.
   Meanwhile, utilities in North America, Europe and East
Asia hold around 160,000 metric tons of uranium and between
40,000 to 80,000 metric tons in excess of requirements, the
study says.