BankAmerica,
   Security Pacific
   Merger Cleared
   ---
   Fed Approves Transaction,
   Imposes Stiff Conditions;
   Value Exceeds $4 Billion
   ----
   By Paulette Thomas
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Creation of the second-biggest banking empire in the U.S.,
with $191.9 billion in assets, was conditioned upon sales of
213 branches to meet antitrust concerns raised earlier by the
Justice Department. The new bank, which will keep the
BankAmerica name, also agreed to improve its lending record
in low-income neighborhoods, committing $12 billion over 10
years to that effort.
   The combination is one of several mega-bank mergers to
occur during the past year, since the Bush administration
began pushing for industry consolidation. In December, the
Fed also approved NCNB Corp.'s acquisition of CS/Sovran to
become NationsBank, based in Charlotte, N.C., as well as the
merger of two New York giants, Chemical Banking Corp. and
Manufacturers Hanover Trust Corp.
   Following the merger, San Francisco-based BankAmerica will
be only slightly smaller than New York's Citicorp, which has
assets of about $215 billion. Approval of the consolidation
was disclosed yesterday evening, after the markets had
closed.
   Yesterday, in New York Stock Exchange composite trading,
BankAmerica common closed at $45.625 a share, up 37.5 cents,
on volume of 1,352,000 shares; Security Pacific common closed
at $39.625 a share, up 12.5 cents on volume of 441,700
shares.
   Terms call for BankAmerica to issue 0.88 share for each
Security Pacific share. BankAmerica managers will fill most
of the senior management positions in the merged bank, the
Fed said. BankAmerica expects to save $1.2 billion annually
starting in three years, with most of those savings coming
from reduced personnel costs.
   The agreement requires the new bank to sell branch
buildings, deposits and small-business and consumer loans in
116 Western markets where the two banks had competed. The
biggest divestiture will be in Washington state, where the
bank will sell 87 branches with $3.3 billion in deposits.
About half of those are in Seattle, where BankAmerica is the
largest bank.
   The bank also will sell 49 Arizona branches with $2.4
billion in deposits, 44 California branches with $1.9 billion
in deposits; 30 Nevada branches with $829 million in
deposits; and three Oregon branches with $65 million in
deposits.
   Like other recent Fed merger approvals, BankAmerica's was
contingent upon improving its record of lending to low-income
customers. About 50 pages of the 95-page Fed approval
dissected the bank's track record in maintaining branches in
poor neighborhoods, lending to minorities, and providing
products for low-income customers.
   Community activist groups have been particularly adroit at
using newly required public disclosures of bank-lending
records by race and neighborhood. BankAmerica's report for
1990, for example, showed that about half of all black
applicants were approved for mortgages, compared with
three-quarters of white applicants, and groups such as the
Association for Community Organizations for Reform Now, or
Acorn, protested the merger on that basis.
   Since the merger proposal was announced last August,
BankAmerica agreed to commit $12 billion over 10 years to a
variety of low-income lending, including mortgages, consumer
loans and business loans.
   BankAmerica also agreed that it won't close any branches
in markets where it or Security Pacific are the only bank or
thrift. It also agreed to adopt Security Pacific's more
liberal check-cashing policy for poor customers and
non-customers. It also will review rejected mortgage
applications from minority borrowers.
   "It's good to see that they were forced in those issues,"
said Michael Shea, national housing director of Acorn.
   The Fed also said it approved the merger contingent upon
BankAmerica's financial projections to meet all capital
requirements. The bank spent much of 1991 piling up
additional capital in advance of the merger, adding more than
$2 billion in its total capital, through retained earnings
and stock issues and subordinated debt, and added an
additional $915 million this year.