Marketing  Media:
   Japanese Ownership
   Of One Sports Team
   Causes No Problems
   ---
   Unlike the Sparks in Seattle,
   Issue Hasn't Heated Up
   For Tampa Bay Lightning
   ----
   By Mark Robichaux
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
That doesn't help Hiroshi Yamauchi, president of
video-game giant Nintendo Co., who with an investor group
offered $100 million in cold cash for the Seattle Mariners
last week. Major League Baseball Commissioner Fay Vincent
countered by saying that existing rules make it "unlikely"
that America's national pastime would allow foreign
ownership.
   But no such rules are a sticking point in hockey, where
the Japanese investors are being celebrated after a long
search for a buyer. Indeed, last week Mr. Nakamura's Japanese
group was toasted at a Tampa Chamber of Commerce dinner.
"Here we look at the color of the money, and if it's green,
it's OK," says John Dunn, a spokesman from the mayor's office
in Tampa.
   The Lightning's foreign partners, which also include Tokyo
Tower Development Co. and Nippon Meat Packers, will team up
with a bona fide Yankee -- literally. George Steinbrenner,
the vociferous New York Yankees owner, took a minority stake
in the team last year.
   Little wonder the new faces are so welcome in Tampa. The
city already lost out on a bid for baseball to Miami, and it
missed a shot at pro basketball, which went to Orlando.
   Japanese ownership of a U.S. team in this Canadian sport
has happened before, although it wasn't a controlling stake.
The Japanese firm Daishowa Paper Manufacturing Co. has held
an 18% stake in the Quebec Nordiques for the past three
seasons.
   The Lightning's 1992-93 season will be played in the
Florida Suncoast Dome, built two years ago in St. Petersburg,
Fla., in hopes of bringing a professional baseball team
there. The team's goal is to play in an arena to be built by
Tampa Coliseum Inc. by the following season. The major
investor in that venture, it happens, is Fuji Bank Ltd. of
Japan.