International:
   World Wire
   ----
   Compiled by Richard L. Holman
A proposed European Community directive would provide
publishers of electronic databases with ammunition to fight
piracy. The measure would ban copying.
   The protection, which could be approved by EC member
states by year end, would last for 10 years after a
database's creation. Its application would range from
newswires and electronic legal research services to dating
networks. An EC official estimated the fast-growing EC market
for electronic information will total $4.45 billion this
year, about a third of the world-wide market.
   The directive would be one of the world's most
far-reaching. In the U.S. and Japan, where copyright law
protects databases, pirates exploit big loopholes -- coverage
of database organization but not the data itself, for
example.
   Under the directive, non-EC databases would benefit from
the extra EC protection only if their home country offered a
similar shield. This reciprocity clause could raise alarms in
the U.S., where such provisions are considered discriminatory
and a barrier to free trade.
                                                                                                       

   JAPAN TO EXPLORE OFF VIETNAM
                                                                                                       

   Arabian Oil Co. of Japan said its ADC Energy Development
Co. unit and Taikoku Oil Co. agreed in principle to explore
for oil and natural gas off southern Vietnam. The pact with
Petrovietnam, which could be completed for prospecting by
year end in a 1,000-square-mile area in the South China Sea,
would mark the first time a Japanese firm exploited that
region of Vietnam. Arabian Oil is owned 10% each by Saudi
Arabia and Kuwait. Vietnam's offshore oil reserves are
estimated at up to three billion barrels.
                                                                                                       

   MEXICO TO AID SMALL BUSINESS
                                                                                                       

   Mexico's National Finance development bank will expand its
lending program to encourage small and medium- sized
businesses. The agency hopes this year to channel $6 billion
to 85,000 companies, up from $4 billion to 52,800 firms last
year. Companies that generate new jobs may qualify for the
loans.
                                                                                                       

   MARCOS CURRENCY TO BE SCRAPPED
                                                                                                       

   The Philippines central bank said it would demonetize
paper money printed during the late Ferdinand Marcos's
administration. The New Society series of notes will cease to
be legal tender after Feb. 2, 1993, though they may be
exchanged for valid currency until Feb. 2, 1996. The bank
said its move was a routine periodic retirement of bills and
unrelated to rumors that large sums of New Society notes were
being used by Marcos associates to fund his widow Imelda's
presidential bid. When the Marcoses fled the Philippines in
1986, they took several crates of newly minted money.
                                                                                                       

   MALE TEMPS GROW IN JAPAN
                                                                                                       

   Men in their 20s and 30s are reversing women's domination
in Japan's temporary-employment field, reflecting a changing
life style, people in the industry said. The trend, with men
accounting for up to 70% of those registered for temporary
jobs, intensified as the domestic economy's pace slowed.
Corporations reining in personnel costs have hired skilled
workers on a part-time basis. And young people increasingly
aren't seeking lifetime employment in Japan.
                                                                                                       

   BIG PORTUGUESE SELL-OFF UNVEILED
                                                                                                       

   Lisbon announced the opening of the first phase in the
privatization of the state oil company Petroleos de Portugal
EP, known as Petrogal, which is the country's largest
commercial enterprise.
   Proposals will be accepted for 45 days for buying 26% of
Petrogal, or about 24 million shares, including 19 million
from a new issue and five million held by the government. The
shares will be offered at a base price of 1,700 escudos
($12.34) each, which is to raise at least 40.8 billion
escudos ($296 million).
   The successful bidder for the 26% holding is expected to
be given preference in the second-phase sale of 25% of
Petrogal within three years. Foreign investors will be
allowed to buy as much as 40% of Petrogal's total capital.
The issue of new shares will raise Petrogal's capital 12% to
about 86 billion escudos.
   The government presently plans to keep a 10% strategic
stake in Petrogal, which employs 4,500 people and had 1990
profit of 3.58 billion escudos.
                                                                                                       

   POSTSCRIPTS . . .
                                                                                                       

   India and Israel decided to establish full diplomatic
relations. New Delhi had refused links with Israel since its
1948 founding, accusing it of occupying Arab territory. . . .
The United Nations cleared the way for the former Soviet
republics of Armenia, Kyrgyzstan, Uzbekistan and Tajikistan
to join the 166-member world body and will weigh entry by
Moldava. Kazakhstan was endorsed for admission last week. . .
. To strengthen its links overseas, China National Gold Corp.
set up an international arm for bullion trade and global
technological cooperation.