Better Times
   For Waterford
   Crystal Seen
   ---
   Waterford Wedgwood Unit
   Likely to Post '92 Profit
   After Major Cost Cuts
   ----
   By Cotton Timberlake
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
Thanks to significant cost-cutting measures, analysts
expect Waterford Crystal to post nearly break-even results
for 1991. Helped by economic recovery and a stronger dollar,
the company should return to profit this year, and surge
ahead in 1993, they say.
   "There were a lot of question marks as to whether the
crystal operations could survive. Now people believe it is
firmly under control. Now the company has a future," said
Dick Watson, an analyst with the Dublin investment firm
Goodbody James Capel.
   Waterford Crystal's recovery has been painful for its
hometown. The company, which ranks among Ireland's top five
manufacturing employers, has reduced its Irish work force to
2,300 from 2,900 in 1987, and analysts expect more job cuts.
The company has kept its workers on about half-time since a
14-week strike in 1990 over cost-cutting.
   In September, Waterford Crystal took the bold step of
launching a cheaper "Marquis" line of crystal that is made
not in Ireland, but in Germany, Portugal and Yugoslavia. Some
employees fear this strategy could hurt the 208-year-old
company's valuable brand name. "Waterford represents Ireland.
We see it as the edge of the wedge for the whole product,"
said Pat Fitzgerald, an employee and official with the
Amalgamated Transport  General Workers Union.
   Starting at prices of $30 apiece instead of the usual $50,
the Marquis line is intended to grab a share of the lower end
of the market. The company said sales were encouraging, and
analysts believe the product is differentiated well enough
from the premium line.
   "Our gut feeling is that it's doing quite well," said
Shane Nolan, an analyst with the Dublin investment firm
National City Brokers. He said he expects Waterford Crystal
to expand distribution from the U.S. to Australia and Far
East markets this year.
   Waterford's overall sales have slumped because of the
recession, a weak dollar and a drop in the number of tourists
to Ireland as a result of the Gulf War. "Hopefully things
will turn around for them significantly this year," said Mr.
Nolan. "We believe they have excellent long-term potential
anyway."
   As part of a makeover this past year, the parent company
Waterford Wedgwood in June got its third chairman in three
years, Donald Brennan, an executive at Morgan Stanley  Co.,
the brokerage firm.
   Mr. Brennan, 50 years old, assumed the post six months
after Morgan Stanley and other investors provided a
much-needed cash injection of 79.5 million Irish pounds.
   Waterford Wedgwood also separated the crystal operation
from its profitable Wedgwood English china business. Analysts
believe Waterford and Wedgwood ultimately will be split up,
perhaps next year. Waterford bought Wedgwood for #253 million
(about $450 million) in 1986. The idea had been that they
would jointly take over place settings all over the world.
   Waterford Wedgwood commands 28% -- the biggest single
share -- of the U.S. premium crystal ($15 plus) market and
80% of the high end ($50 plus), Mr. Nolan said. With total
annual sales of $350 million, the U.S. is the world's most
important luxury crystal market, accounting for two-thirds of
Waterford's revenue, he said. Much of Waterford's other sales
are to U.S. tourists in Ireland. The main competitors are the
French company Baccarat, Villeroy  Boch of Germany, and
Brown-Forman Corp.'s Lenox unit in the U.S.