Bush to Unveil Job-Training Programs
   That Expand Role of Business Groups
   ----
   By Albert R. Karr
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The president, who is under political fire as being
insensitive to the plight of the unemployed and
disadvantaged, is expected to portray the new programs as
putting people back to work, part of his emphasis on
breathing new life into the economy.
   Beefing up the Labor Department's job-training programs
has been a typical response of past administrations facing
recessions, and today's expected announcement will fall in
that vein. Mr. Bush also took a long time to endorse the
typical step of extending unemployment-compensation benefits
during a recession. Meanwhile, the White House is working on
other efforts to encourage growth, such as previously
reported plans to propose business-stimulating tax cuts.
   An administration fact sheet for the training programs,
called Job Training 2000, says, "The president believes that
to compete successfully in the global marketplace, America
needs a dynamic, flexible and well-trained work force." This,
it says, will require untangling "the overlapping maze of
more than 60 federal job training and vocational education
programs that cost taxpayers $18 billion a year."
   The new plan is expected to involve mainly reprogramming
of some of the money allocated to job-training,
vocational-education and other programs in the Labor
Department and other agencies. Some of it would require
legislation, and will be part of the government's fiscal 1993
budget to be announced in a couple of weeks, officials said.
   The initiative would include:
   -- Expanding the role of private industry councils, which
are local groups with a majority of business people as
members, along with labor leaders and community officials.
The councils would be given new strategic planning and
management functions. They would also receive incentive
grants for meeting new broad performance standards for how
training is to be conducted, rather than just the existing
narrower standards for how many people should be trained and
placed.
   -- Creating new skill centers out of existing government
employment-service offices, where prospective trainees could
find out what services are available from various federal
agencies and be pointed toward the one they need. The
industry councils would manage these centers.
   -- Demonstration projects under which states would be
given funds and allowed, for the first time, to contract out
job-training and placement services to individual private
employers in rural and other areas that currently lack any
federally funded training network.
   -- Projects that let states use private or nonprofit
companies for basic training and job placement for welfare
recipients. The companies wouldn't be paid until the
individual is placed in a job and holds it for a set amount
of time.
   -- Using a magnetic-tape eligibility card to make it
easier for lower-income persons to gain access to guaranteed
student loans and other federally financed training aid. The
card would show the amount of funding the student has been
given for the education and would also be used to expedite
and coordinate processing of grants and loans.
   -- Establishing core education proficiency standards and
voluntary "skill certificates" tied to these standards. The
Labor and Education Departments would work with business,
labor and education officials to develop such standards.
   -- Offering a new youth-apprenticeship program, starting
in the 11th or 12th grades. Students would agree to a formal
instruction and on-the-job learning program.
   -- Issuing vouchers to needy persons to cover as much as
90% of training, with part of the voucher withheld until the
trainee finishes the program and has held a job for at least
90 days.