Enterprise:
   Cold War: Amana Refrigeration Fights Tiny Distributor
   ---
   Cooper's All-Out Battle With Raytheon Unit
   Hinges on Termination Rights
   ----
   By Jeffrey A. Tannenbaum
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Like many other small companies, Cooper Distributing has
built a profitable business by tying its fortunes to a much
bigger company. Mr. Cooper says his company's annual sales
have increased more than sixfold, to $23.5 million for the
fiscal year ended last Sept. 30, since 1975. Mostly, he says,
that's because of a pact to distribute Amana appliances in
parts of New Jersey and New York. Amana accounted for 85% of
Cooper's sales last year.
   But now, Cooper and Amana are adversaries in Newark
federal court. Instead of distributing only appliances,
Cooper now has a press agent distributing Amana-bashing news
releases. "The dangling ax remains hanging over my company,"
Mr. Cooper says in one. "But I'm determined not to be the
next victim in the bloodletting that Amana has perpetrated on
its loyal distributors countrywide."
   Mr. Cooper figures his company, with only 18 employees,
stands to win sympathy, at least, in its battle with
Raytheon, which had 1991 sales of $9.27 billion. (Of that,
$998 million came from appliance lines, including Amana.)
   Raytheon, based in Lexington, Mass., is keeping a low
profile, referring inquiries on the dispute to Amana. Amana
says it "will ultimately prevail" but otherwise declines to
comment.
   Last year, Raytheon Chairman Dennis J. Picard said the
company was moving to strengthen its appliance operations --
consisting of Caloric and Speed Queen brands as well as
Amana. The group had reported an operating loss of $8 million
in 1990, despite profits at Amana. "We're going to
consolidate, we're going to improve our distribution
channels, and we're going to attack costs for increased
efficiency," Mr. Picard said. Later, the company reported a
modest pretax operating profit of $5 million for appliances
for 1991.
   Until recently, Amana-bashing would have seemed like
self-flagellation at Cooper. For 30 years, the two companies
had enjoyed an amicable relationship -- until Amana last year
announced a divorce.
   "Suddenly, Amana decided it did not need or want Cooper,
and terminated it on a few days' notice," says Judge Maryanne
Trump Barry. She has issued a preliminary order preventing
Amana from completing the rupture. At issue is whether New
Jersey franchise law, which bars terminations of franchisees
except for "good cause," applies to Cooper.
   David J. Kaufmann, a franchise-law specialist in New York,
says the dispute points up a troubling issue in distribution
and franchising: termination rights. Termination or
nonrenewal of a franchise can destroy a small business; most
franchise contracts spell out when and how terminations may
occur. Yet increasingly, states try to impose their own
rules. New Jersey's franchise law has been held to apply to
many distribution arrangements, but not all, Mr. Kaufmann
says.
   Until recently, Mr. Cooper had little reason to fear for
his future with Amana. His late father founded Cooper
Distributing in 1931; it became an Amana distributor in 1961.
In 1982, Amana expanded Cooper's territory to New York City.
William Cooper and his wife regularly attended Amana
conventions at Florida and Arizona resorts, and they took
their customers to the golf tournaments that Amana, based in
Iowa, sponsored in that state. "Being an Amana distributor
was like being part of a family," Mr. Cooper says.
   But as Raytheon, which had acquired Amana in 1965, played
an increasingly active role in its operations during the last
decade, the family feeling diminished, Mr. Cooper says. Soon
there were no more golf tournaments. Mr. Cooper says he
watched this transition for years -- but it wasn't until last
May that he first felt threatened.
   That's when Amana, he says, decided to allow P.C. Richard
 Son, a Long Island, N.Y., retailer, to buy appliances
directly from the factory, cutting out Cooper as the
middleman and thus keeping more profit for itself. This was
Cooper's biggest account, Mr. Cooper says. "We were quite
upset. We had built up the account." Mr. Cooper says he took
a plane to Iowa and confronted top Amana officials, but got
no concessions. On the way home, "I just felt in a daze, I
was shocked," he says. In June, Cooper had a lawyer write
Amana, alleging that it would be unlawful to take away
Cooper's account. But Amana disagreed, Mr. Cooper says, and
in August it began its direct selling to Richard.
   There was worse news brewing. Mr. Cooper says he read a
Home Furnishings Daily article in November in which a top
Raytheon official heralded major new consolidation moves in
the company's appliance businesses. "Within a week we were
notified that Amana wanted to cancel our distributorship," he
says. Indeed, Amana wanted to end the relationship on just 10
days' notice, according to Cooper. Mr. Cooper says an Amana
official told him: "It's not because you're doing a bad job;
we just think we can do better."
   By that time, Cooper was on full legal alert. It
dispatched a lawyer to state court in Newark, suing Amana to
block the termination. Amana got the case transferred to the
federal court. There Cooper won the preliminary order
protecting its business, though it also has to post a
$350,000 bond to cover damages that it might have to pay if
Amana wins the case.
   Many of Mr. Cooper's customers are squarely in his corner,
especially smaller retailers that fear they'd get scant
attention from Amana without a go-between. (Mr. Cooper
worries that his biggest customers, on the other hand, would
prefer to negotiate directly with Amana.)
   Allen Jacobson, president of Jacobson Distributing Co., an
Elizabeth, N.J., retailer, says of Amana's termination move
against Cooper, "I didn't think Raytheon would be so stupid."
He adds: "It's unfair to Cooper, and it's also bad business."
   Debra Oberg-Kmiecik, treasurer of Oberg  Lindquist Corp.,
a Westwood, N.J., retailer, says of the 48-year-old Mr.
Cooper's plight: "It's a shame when something like this
happens to a guy who's done a tremendous job all his life. To
us, Amana is Cooper -- it's one and the same."