Marketing:
   `Buy American' Is Easier Said Than Done
   ----
   By James S. Hirsch and Dana Milbank
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
Like others, Mrs. Riggot has been barraged by "Buy
American" slogans and headlines. It's the nation's latest
rallying cry, emphasizing national self-reliance amid growing
fears that foreigners are controlling the country's economic
destiny. The Buy American movement "is like the buddy system
in swimming," says Carol Farmer, a marketing strategist in
Boca Raton, Fla. "When you're going down, you need to band
together."
   The movement also evokes earlier eras of U.S. economic
supremacy. "Americans don't like waking up and looking in the
mirror and seeing a less powerful nation," says Paul
Laudicina, vice president for international business policy
at A.T. Kearney, a management consulting concern. "We yearn
for the can-do optimism of the '60s, {the belief} that we can
put a man on the moon and go toe-to-toe with any competitor."
   Yet in the marketplace, the campaign is amounting to
wishful thinking. The approach ignores the complexity of
international markets, where products are developed,
manufactured and marketed with little regard to national
boundaries. As a result, "it's more difficult than ever to
find out what's an American product," says Robert B. Reich, a
Harvard political economist. Even for those willing to make
the effort, he adds, "few Americans are willing to spend
extra money for {American} products they may find cheaper or
higher quality abroad."
   Walk into Harry's Clothes Store near Pittsburgh and the
Buy American confusion becomes evident. Owner Ray Gross pulls
from the shelf a striped Van Heusen dress shirt with an
American label. Then he pulls a second, almost identical Van
Heusen shirt -- this one made in Thailand.
   The store gets most of its London Fog garments from South
Korea, while virtually all of Nike's garments come from
Malaysia. Only the underwear is safely American (Fruit of the
Loom).
   Spasms of economic nationalism, usually triggered by
recessions, have occurred throughout American history, but
the current phenomenon has particular force. Some fear the
Buy American hoopla is tinged with racism and xenophobia.
Passions have run high since a Japanese legislator last week
denigrated American workers as lazy.
   In Fremont, Ohio, a tire dealer has decided that he won't
sell tires to owners of foreign autos. "I'm 37 years old and
I'll fight like hell to avoid ending up in the unemployment
line," declares Dennis Schwartz, co-owner of Smiley Tire, who
says he relies heavily on selling tires to commercial trucks
that haul supplies to American automobile plants. His
campaign against Japanese cars, he says, is no less quixotic
than voting in an election. "If you say one person can't make
a difference, then you're saying you don't believe in
democracy," Mr. Schwartz says.
   The Buy American fervor, says Jackson Lears, a cultural
historian at Rutgers University, has a therapeutic dimension
as well, leading consumers to believe that the "ritual of
buying American will attack economic problems at their root,
even though the root is much deeper."
   The movement, he adds, "turns into a psychodrama of
national pride and feeling good about America again."
   Americans in general are torn between their patriotic
loyalties and market realities. According to a recent Wall
Street Journal/NBC News poll, 75% of Americans support
legislation requiring Japan to reduce its trade surplus with
the U.S., and 86% of those who favor such legislation would
support it even if it meant fewer, more expensive Japanese
cars. But at the same time, 48% of Americans believe the
Japanese make better cars, while only 23% believe U.S.-made
cars are superior.
   In fact, many Americans have already decided that U.S.
products are inferior, and all the bells and whistles for
Uncle Sam won't help. Consider Marcie McCauley, a St. Louis
housewife who has a five-year-old son and one-year-old
daughter. She says 75% of her children's toys are foreign
made, including educational board games and puzzles from
German-owned Ravensburger, French dolls and wooden train sets
from Swedish-owned Brio. "They're indestructible and they go
together the right way," Ms. McCauley says. "We bought a
train set from Mattel, and it fell apart within a week."
   "It's so disappointing," she says. "I'm pretty patriotic,
but I'd rather pay $7 {for a foreign-made toy} than $2 {for a
domestic one} and have it last through a second child."
   Even for the most committed shoppers, Buy American is
hardly practical. At Caspar's Home Appliances in Homestead,
Pa., the closest thing to an American television set is one
assembled by a French company in Indianapolis using parts
from Asia. Owner Howard Caspar says even Zenith, the only
American television maker, manufactures sets in Mexico. "Our
customers can wish to buy American all they want, and I'd
like to buy American too, but there's nothing on that shelf
that's American," Mr. Caspar says.
   At the All Seasons Sports Shop, customer Karl Pitassi
boasts that he spent $40 more just to buy his American-made
basketball shoes. "Everything on my body is American made,"
says Mr. Pitassi, an unemployed carpenter. "If I can't give
my money to this country, I won't have a country left." But
all around him are signs that it may be too late. Only three
of the store's 15 fishing reels are U.S.-made. At least the
live bait is all-American, grown in Wisconsin.
   Even when American goods are available, the higher cost or
lower quality often turns customers away. At Harry's Clothes,
a Jones New York suit -- made in Korea -- sells for $269. The
same suit made here, this season featuring a big American
flag on the label, costs $500. "Everyone would love to buy
American without cheating themselves, but they can't do it
yet," says Mr. Gross, the owner, who drives a Japanese Acura
Integra.
   Over at Chiodo's Tavern, across the street from a closed
U.S. Steel plant, the patrons share the frustration. A U.S.
flag and military paraphernalia hang from the ceiling, but
the video machine is Japanese and the 120 varieties of
foreign beer outsell the American brands. "You try to buy as
much {American} as you can, but there's not much you can do,"
says Tom Boyle, a state worker sitting at the bar. His Reebok
sneakers come from China, his Casio watch is Japanese and his
Mexican-made Mercury Tracer is parked outside.
   And if the Buy American fever isn't running high in
Homestead, it has little chance of catching on in
Pittsburgh's affluent North Hills. "I just bought a $1,000
Japanese stereo," says Leslie Moore, a nurse shopping at a
North Hills mall. "I was comparison shopping, and I was more
encouraged to buy it because I have a Japanese car and I've
been very happy with it."
   At the nearby dining area, Jacinda Sorenson and Joel
Russell both 19 years old, eat steak sandwiches amid clothing
packages. "I just bought Nike shoes, but I don't know if they
were made in America or not," Miss Sorenson says. She opens a
bag and sees a South Korea label.
   Asked if they bought anything tonight that was made in
America, Mr. Russell pauses, raises his soda cup and says,
"Pepsi."