LEISURE  ARTS -- Bookshelf:
   Funny Fiction From Far and Near
   ----
   By Bruce Bawer
To be sure, Constance has ambitious plans for her debut
film, in which she proposes to address every hot issue on the
leftist agenda. Yet she's got a problem: how to make big
statements about capitalism, patriarchy and the environment
while also telling the story of her love life -- which is,
deep down, the only thing she really cares about.
   Chief among the objects of Constance's desire is her film
professor and intellectual mentor, Gottfried Schachtschnabel,
a tenure-obsessed academic hack whose every hoary Marxist mot
she finds brilliant. Author of a dissertation on "the
illusion of sensuality" in the films of Rita Hayworth and Ava
Gardner ("blondes," he explains, "don't do much for me"),
he's a sexist pig of the first water, but since he strews
feminist bromides among his lewd come-ons, Constance doesn't
realize it.
   This is a funny book with serious undertones. "We
intellectuals," Gottfried says, "can no longer ignore the
working class's mute appeal that we declare ourselves the
representatives of their interests and accept that role."
Constance agrees, adding: "The people are dumb; they need
someone to tell them what's right for them, they want a
fuhrer figure. . . ."
   The abrupt shift from the comic to the chilling works
perfectly, as does Ms. Heller's implied analogy between the
Nazi mind-set and that of contemporary academic leftists
(though she alludes rarely to the Hitler era -- or, for that
matter, to the Berlin Wall).
   The novel does have its flaws. Some of Ms. Heller's
parodic jabs are too easy, and some episodes -- notably one
in which an ad agency hires Constance to do a study proving
that magazine ads are non-sexist -- feel contrived. Yet on
balance this is a topnotch comic novel. Its author keeps
coming up with inspired twists (and, in the end, achieves
real poignancy), and its translator, Krishna Winston, has
done a superb job of rendering the tale in brisk colloquial
English.
   ---
   Like Ms. Heller, the Canadian-born New York writer Rick
Rofihe is a satirist of the bohemian-artist life, but if Ms.
Heller makes you think of Evelyn Waugh, Mr. Rofihe brings to
mind MTV. The stories in his first book, "Father Must"
(Farrar Straus Giroux, 186 pages, $18.95), scream out from
jump street that they are cuttingedge fiction: so short,
fast, hip and disjointed that they make Tama Janowitz
(remember her?) look like Henry James.
   It must be said that Mr. Rofihe has the post-modern thing
down. In best avant-garde fashion, his titles -- "Helen
Says," "40," "Quiet" -- come at you like words pulled at
random from the text, suggesting little other than flippancy
and fragmentation. Uncluttered by action or characters, many
of his anti-stories consist only of a wacky monologue; where
there are protagonists, they tend to be artsy freaks living
in seedy inner-city walk-ups in New York or San Francisco.
   Mr. Rofihe's robust, goofy voice and frivolous themes can
be irksome. "Read Chinese" rattles on about how you can make
out some words in Chinese newspapers because they're in
English: "Some people's names they don't translate. So you
have a bunch of Chinese characters and then you have a name
like ROY ORBISON. . . . WOOLCO they don't translate. And THE
SUNSHINE STATE they don't translate. . . . KEEP FIT they
don't translate. BYE-BYE they don't translate." Get the
point?
   But Mr. Rofihe can be surprisingly effective, with a
Barthelmean humor and a quirky tenderness. His best stories
ponder the gulfs between people and come at their topics
elliptically. The title story, for instance, makes moving use
of brief, lowkey, seemingly offhand and unconnected anecdotes
to depict the growing closeness between a man and his current
girlfriend's son. Also oddly touching is "Elevator
Neighbors," about the nodding acquaintance between the
narrator, a successful artist, and his downstairs neighbor,
Bim, a struggling artist. The interest here lies not in the
story's mundane incidents, but in things barely hinted at:
Bim's handsomeness and talent, his girlfriend's comeliness,
the narrator's unspoken envy. Just beneath this calm surface
powerful currents flow.