Freddie Mac Plans to Issue $500 Million
   In Preferred to Retain More Mortgages
   ----
   By Mitchell Pacelle
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The company said Friday that, over the next five years, it
would gradually increase the size of its retained portfolio
to 10% of mortgage purchases. Nancy Spady, who covers Freddie
Mac for Lehman Brothers, said the company's profit margin on
its retained portfolio is roughly five times larger than its
margin on securitizations.
   In addition, the board of the McLean, Va., company
authorized a 3-for-1 split of its existing common stock and a
14% increase in its first-quarter dividend. Freddie Mac
became a publicly traded company three years ago when thrift
institutions that owned the company's stock through the
nation's Federal Home Loan Bank System were allowed to resell
it. The offering of preferred is the first time that Freddie
Mac will have sold securities directly to the public.
   Analysts said that the moves would make the company more
profitable and reduce the volatility of its stock. The news
sent Freddie Mac's stock soaring $7.25 to close at $120 a
share Friday in New York Stock Exchange composite trading.
   "Growing their portfolio is a big change in their
corporate culture," said Ms. Spady, noting that Freddie Mac
is considered more conservative than Fannie Mae, as the
Federal National Mortgage Association is known.
   "This is an opportunity for shareholders of the company to
become more like Fannie Mae," said Jonathan Gray, who covers
the company for Sanford C. Bernstein  Co.
   The company said that it would offer fixed-rate preferred
stock that won't be convertible into common, and would be
redeemable after five years at the option of the company.
   Leland Brendsel, Freddie Mac's chairman and chief
executive officer, explained: "With the development of
callable debt, it allows us to carry a greater retained
portfolio than in the past, while keeping the interest-rate
risk low."
   The new capital also will give the company a more
comfortable cushion over the minimum capital levels it
expects Congress to enact later this year. Analysts said the
company currently meets the anticipated initial capital
requirements, and by year end would have accumulated enough
to meet the final target that will be in place after 18
months.
   "This puts them ahead of schedule and gives them an added
cushion, without diluting the common" shares, noted Bruce
Harting, who follows the company for Salomon Brothers Inc.
   Analysts also said that the 3-for-1 stock split will add
to liquidity and reduce the company's stock price volatility.
The split will make the stock, which traded as high at $139
in recent months, more attractive to individual investors,
and the increase in shares will make it more attractive to
institutional investors who might have avoided the stock
because of comparatively low trading volumes.
   The company's first-quarter dividend will rise to 57 cents
a share from 50 cents a share, payable March 31 to stock of
record on March 16. The board said it intended to maintain
the payment for the balance of the year.