Kerrey's Drubbing
   Teaches Lessons
   Of Politics
   ----
   By Albert R. Hunt
At the same time, Sen. Bob Kerrey, a man with even less
political experience, decided to make the race. What he
discovered in six frustration-filled months was that running
for president is like making the leap between minor-league
baseball and the Big Leagues: What seems easy and routine
suddenly becomes much more complex as the standards and
scrutiny escalate tremendously.
   Over the past two decades, some formidable figures have
struck out in the major leagues of presidential politics: Bob
Dole, Ted Kennedy, Scoop Jackson, Howard Baker, John
Connally. Bob Kerrey, a man of unusual character and promise,
may be one of the few to come out of it whole, even to fight
another day, providing he understands the lessons of the
experience.
   Foremost is that the 48-year-old Nebraska Democrat lacked
a coherent and sustainable message about why he wanted to be
president and where he wanted to lead the country. This was
crystallized by the trade issue -- particularly the infamous
Kerrey television commercial in New Hampshire, in which the
senator stood in front of a hockey net to warn Japan that, as
president, he would keep its products out if it continued to
discriminate against American goods.
   One of the early myths of this campaign season is that the
ad backfired because free-trade New Hampshirites rejected the
message. Actually, Bob Kerrey did pretty well in the daily
tracking polls when that commercial aired.
   The problem was much more basic: The message didn't fit
Bob Kerrey, who basically is a Midwestern free trader. In
this context, the senator was absolutely correct when he
later called the ad a mistake. A presidential campaign isn't
a propitious time to reinvent one's positions.
   Another overriding lesson of the Kerrey campaign concerns
Vietnam.
   Bob Kerrey may well be the most courageous man in more
than half a century to run for president: He won the Medal of
Honor when, as a young Navy lieutenant in Vietnam in 1969, he
risked his life -- and lost part of his leg -- to save his
men. He's the first Medal of Honor winner to serve in the
Senate in this century.
   When the controversy over opponent Bill Clinton's
avoidance of the draft erupted, Sen. Kerrey was genuinely
angered, not because of what the young Mr. Clinton did --
many of Bob Kerrey's friends found a way to avoid Vietnam too
-- but because he believed Mr. Clinton wasn't telling the
truth about what he did. When the Arkansas Democrat
disingenuously claimed he put himself in harm's way by
entering the draft lottery in 1969, it enraged Mr. Kerrey, a
man who knows a lot about putting yourself in harm's way.
   But Mr. Kerrey's own war record was, if anything, a
negative in the campaign. Part of it is that some voters
don't remember Vietnam, and others want to expunge whatever
memories they do have. And sadly, even though Sen. Kerrey
believes the war was tragically flawed and misdirected, there
remains in some quarters a residual resentment against anyone
associated with that effort.
   That resentment was clearly evident in the media. A
reporter once asked him whether, after all he had done in
Vietnam, he really was qualified to be president. (Does that
mean that Bill Clinton and Dan Quayle, by ducking Vietnam,
are more qualified?)
   Another lesson from the Kerrey campaign is simply that Mr.
Kerrey wasn't very good at the things he had to do to be a
good candidate. Not only did he lack a clear message, he also
was lousy at the shorthand delivery and mini-demagoguery that
are essential in the sound-bite age.
   A week before the New Hampshire primary, the Kerrey
campaign mounted an event at Hesser Junior College in
Manchester that was a media manipulator's dream. There was a
large, enthusiastic crowd, bunting, music and a rousing
introduction by Sen. Daniel Patrick Moynihan that invoked
memories of another young war hero, John F. Kennedy. Mr.
Kerrey then proceeded to give an existentialist speech; the
enthusiasm visibly waned with each passing moment.
   Erratic as he was, the untested national candidate showed
signs of finding his voice near the end. Blending his calls
for a generational change with a "can-do" spirit of
governance and broadening his health care message, Mr. Kerrey
at times seemed on the verge of achieving his potential. Many
observers thought he was the class of the field in both the
final New Hampshire debate and the South Dakota encounter.
   Even in defeat Sen. Kerrey kept his senses of perspective
and humor. After his rival Tom Harkin won the Iowa caucuses,
Mr. Kerrey was asked why he kept discounting the Harkin
victory. "Self-serving," he replied.
   Mr. Kerrey is a politician of enormous resilience; a story
he frequently tells about his post-Vietnam recovery is
applicable today. Shortly after his lower right leg was
amputated at the Philadelphia Naval Hospital in 1969, he
asked his mother to look and see how much was left. "`Son,
there's a lot left,'" he recalls her telling him. "She wasn't
talking about my body. She was talking about my heart and
spirit."
   Life, for sure, is a lot more important than politics. But
politically, Mr. Kerrey has a lot left too.
   ---
   Mr. Hunt is chief of the Journal's Washington bureau.