International:
   World Wire
   ----
   Compiled by Monua Janah
Czechoslovakia took steps to ease a sudden shortage of
voucher booklets, with which citizens will be able to
participate in a massive privatization program.
   Citizens are required to buy the booklets at 35 crowns
(about $1.50 at the commercial rate) and to register them for
1,000 crowns. Anyone until now could buy as many booklets as
desired but could only register and invest with one booklet.
The extra booklets could be sold.
   Last week a panic started when some post offices began
running out of the books and it was found that although fewer
than three million people had registered their booklets,
eight million had been sold. To ease the shortage, Federal
Finance Minister Vaclav Klaus said that by tomorrow temporary
replacement cards would be issued instead of booklets. All
buyers of cards -- or booklets where available -- will have
to register them at the time of purchase, so that only people
who intend to invest would buy.
   Separately, the state news agency said retail prices shot
up 54% and industrial production fell 23% in 1991, the first
year of the country's economic reforms.
                                                                                                       

   PORTUGAL'S SECOND-TIER MARKET
                                                                                                       

   Portugal's stock exchanges opened second-tier markets to
provide financing for small and medium-sized companies, which
account for 97% of the country's industrial output. Companies
need 125 million escudos ($887,000) to 250 million escudos of
capital to be quoted on the second-tier market. The main
markets in Lisbon and Oporto, which switched to continuous
trading in September, require a minimum of 500 million
escudos.
                                                                                                       

   SUDAN PLANS PRIVATIZATIONS
                                                                                                       

   Sudan will sell the national airline, shipping line and
telecommunications company to local and foreign investors, a
Sudanese official was quoted as saying. Industry Minister
Tajul Sir Mustafa told the al-Engaz al-Watani newspaper that
a World Bank team is coming to Sudan to discuss the
privatizations. The government of Lt. Gen. Omar Hassan
el-Bashir, who came to power in June 1989, has been trying to
reform the economy by selling public-sector companies, most
of which are unprofitable.
                                                                                                       

   CUBA SIGNS TRADE PACTS
                                                                                                       

   Cuba has signed five-year trade and economic cooperation
accords with the former Soviet republics of Kyrgyzstan and
Tajikistan, the Cuban news agency Prensa Latina said. The
pacts are another sign that Cuba is moving to replace the
subsidized imports it used to get from the Soviet Union, its
main ally and economic supplier for three decades. The
breakup of the U.S.S.R. has hit Cuba's economy hard,
drastically reducing vital supplies of oil, machinery, food
and raw materials and worsened existing shortages on the
island.
                                                                                                       

   FOREIGN BANKS IN VIETNAM
                                                                                                       

   Vietnam's state bank has authorized six foreign banks to
open branches. The Voice of Vietnam radio said the banks
include Banque Indosuez, Credit Lyonnais, Banque Nationale de
Paris and Banque Francaise de Commerce Exterieur, all of
France, and Bangkok Bank, Thailand's largest financial
institution. A branch license was also granted to VID Public
Bank, a joint venture of Vietnam Investment and Development
Bank and Public Bank of Malaysia.
                                                                                                       

   SWEDISH BANKRUPTCIES SOAR
                                                                                                       

   Corporate bankruptcies climbed 76% in 1991 from the
previous year, the Swedish Central Bureau of Statistics said.
Personal bankruptcies rose 15%. Bankruptcies, which totaled
18,424 in 1991, have been rising sharply since 1988. In the
fourth quarter, 5,097 bankruptcies were filed, up 53% from
the year earlier.
                                                                                                       

   NOVEL PLAN ON SOVIET DEBT
                                                                                                       

   The president of the European Bank for Reconstruction and
Development suggested that one way to reduce the former
Soviet Union's nuclear arsenal would be to trade it for debt.
   "What I have proposed is a swap deal involving nuclear
warheads in return for agreed debt relief, thereby helping to
remove the danger of nuclear proliferation in the republics,"
said bank President Jacques Attali. "There's a twin and
urgent requirement for the management of foreign debt and
destruction of nuclear warheads."
   He estimated that forgiveness of Soviet official debts
would amount to "less than 1% of the current aggregate annual
defense budgets of the Group of Seven industrial nations."
Mr. Attali made the suggestion in an interview with EBRD
Watch, an American Banker newsletter.
   A bank spokeswoman stressed that the proposal is a
"personal initiative" by Mr. Attali and not a formal offer by
the London-based bank.
                                                                                                       

   POSTSCRIPTS . . .
                                                                                                       

   Japan, reacting to criticism of its environmental record,
said it will ban trade in three endangered reptiles -- two
kinds of giant lizard and a turtle. The decision will take
effect at the end of the month. . . . Spanish Prime Minister
Felipe Gonzalez confirmed that Spain will extend Venezuela
$1.2 billion in credits.