Tuesday's Markets:
   Recovery
   Doubts Roil
   Markets
   ---
   Stocks Fall, Bonds
   Rise on Consumer
   Confidence Decline
   ----
   By Douglas R. Sease
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Investors hoping for an economic rebound soon were shocked
when the Conference Board reported that consumer confidence,
a key element for any recovery, plunged in February. Its
consumer confidence index fell to 46.3, the lowest level
since the depths of the 1974 recession.
   But this news reassured bond investors, who had been
worried that an economic recovery could reignite inflation.
Long-term interest rates declined modestly yesterday.
   Stefan Abrams, chief investment strategist at Kidder
Peabody, said stock investors chose to focus on the bad news
yesterday. But in the long term, he said, the good news of
falling interest rates will likely be more important for
stocks, pushing them higher.
   He said the yields on long-term Treasury bonds should
retreat further in the next several weeks. "The bond market
had been in a twit about stirrings in the economy, a glut of
corporate and government debt and fears of a tax package that
would overstimulate the economy," he said. But with consumer
confidence declining, President Bush threatening to veto any
tax package that includes tax increases and the slowing pace
of new debt issuance, "the bond market will be heaving a sigh
of relief in the weeks ahead."
   He said he still expects a slow recovery with stable
interest rates and modestly rising corporate earnings. In
that environment, he said, "the stock market has further to
go by year-end."
   In major market action:
                                                                                                       

   Stock prices slumped in heavy trading. Volume totaled
208.4 million shares on the New York Stock Exchange, where
1,082 issues fell and 644 rose.
                                                                                                       

   Bond prices rose. The Treasury's benchmark 30-year issue
climbed a quarter of a point, or almost $3.75 for each $1,000
face amount. The yield dropped to 7.94%.
                                                                                                       

   The dollar rose. In late New York trading the currency was
quoted at 1.6579 marks and 129.80 yen compared with 1.6527
marks and 129.13 yen Monday.