Third Armored Division Deactivation
   Exemplifies U.S. Cutbacks in Europe
   ----
   By Terence Roth
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The secret? Elvis had his hair dyed black by an off-base
barber shop, Mr. Stein says. "Had his eyebrows dyed, too," he
adds.
   Memories, and perhaps a few tall tales, will soon be all
that's left of the Third Armored as the U.S. Army accelerates
its post-Cold War cutbacks in Europe. Two years ago the
division's 368 tanks and 17,000 troops were strung across
Germany's Fulda Gap, the presumed invasion route for Warsaw
Pact forces.
   But now, the Third Armored and Eighth Infantry divisions
have been deactivated, their troops reassigned to other units
or sent back to civilian life in the U.S. The U.S. army in
Europe had been structurally cut from four divisions to two
in Germany.
   To set up chairs for the deactivation ceremony recently,
Staff Sgt. Dale Schnoke had to scour Third Armored
headquarters for soldiers. Only 300 troops remain in the
"Spearhead" division, mostly staff officers completing the
shutdown. And majors and colonels don't set up chairs.
   By next month, they too will be gone.
   Last summer, after Third Armored rolled up two Iraqi
divisions in the Persian Gulf War, Maj. Gen. Jerry R.
Rutherford, its new commander, brought the division back from
the Gulf.
   This is Gen. Rutherford's third tour with the division
here. He joined it in 1963 as a young lieutenant and soon met
his future wife, the daughter of one of the division's senior
commanders.
   "I married her 26 years ago on the fifth of February,
right here at the division chapel, right across the street,"
he says. "It's funny; I started as a platoon leader in this
organization, and I'm the guy that has to stand it down. But
I would rather it be somebody like myself who spent some
tours here with it, with a feeling for the memories," he
says.
   All that will remain of the division that once pierced
Nazi Germany's Siegfried Line will be a cased flag and
assorted memorabilia stored in a corner of some army post in
the U.S. The division may eventually be reactived. But for
now, it is an early example of how Washington plans to cut
its European troop presence by more than half following the
end of the Cold War.
   The U.S. Army plans to reduce its overall strength by
about a fourth. But the cuts are even deeper in Europe to
comply with force-reduction agreements with the former Soviet
Union. By 1995, only 92,200 of the former 213,000 U.S.
soldiers in Europe will remain, with the bulk of the cuts
coming in Germany.
   The headquarters of the Third Armored Division here looks
like somebody is leaving in a big hurry. Unattached cables
stick out of walls, sacks of old files lie in stairwells,
telephones are piled in the corners of rooms bare of
furniture. Most of the Drake Kaserne, headquarters of the
Third Armored, is a ghost town waiting for its final sweeping
before reverting to German control for the first time since
1945.
   The modern M1-A1 tanks are already gone, left behind in
Saudi Arabia or reassigned to other army units. Only a few
World War II and Korean War-era tanks remain in front of the
headquarters building, showpieces for the division's museum.
The museum, too, is set for dismantling and shipment to the
U.S.
   "We're drawing down a famous division, but we won a Cold
War without firing a shot," says Gen. Rutherford. "We're
going home victors, we feel. We look at this as a mission
accomplished."
   Communities whose fortunes have been closely linked to the
division have mixed feelings. Many Germans won't miss noisy
GIs in bars or the damage maneuvers do to fields. Yet local
merchants already miss the buying power of soldiers and their
families. And many others feel a personal loss of a neighbor,
and often an employer.
   Hermann Horst, organist at the Drake Kaserne chapel for 17
years, wept when the chapel closed after its final service
last month. "It's the end of an era," he says.