International:
   World Wire
   ----
   Compiled by Richard L. Holman
Manufacturers in many industrial countries pay more for an
hour of labor than American factories do, a U.S. Labor
Department study found.
   The average cost to U.S. employers was $14.77 in 1990,
compared with $21.53 in western Germany and $21.86 in Norway,
though national competitiveness factors vary. But Japan's
average was $12.64, or 86% of the U.S. cost. Other high-cost
countries among the 27 studied were Sweden, $20.93;
Switzerland, $20.83; Finland, $20.76; Italy, $16.41; Canada,
$16.02; and France, $15.23.
   The sums include basic wages and the cost of fringe
benefits. Many Western European workers get at least four to
five weeks of paid vacation, far more than in the U.S.
Japanese workers get 30% of their compensation in vacation
pay and bonuses. The U.S. figure was about 20%.
   Among countries with low hourly costs to employers, Mexico
averaged $1.85; Brazil, $2.64; Hong Kong, $3.20; and South
Korea, $3.82. China and Eastern European nations were
excluded.
                                                                                                       

   INDIA TO ALLOW BRAND NAMES
                                                                                                       

   To attract foreign investment as part of its economic
liberalization program, India will allow the use of foreign
brand names, scrapping a ruling that forced joint ventures to
use different or hybrid names, the Economic Times reported.
Officials said ventures could drop their hybrid product names
with government permission. The newspaper said opposition to
the change was expected from India's industry lobby, which
fears the combination of foreign advertising budgets and
popular brand names.
                                                                                                       

   FAST TRAIN PLANNED IN JAPAN
                                                                                                       

   A Japanese institute plans to develop a low-noise train
that can travel as fast as 217 miles per hour, the Kyodo news
agency said. The Railway Technical Research Institute said
its Atlas Project, to begin this year, aims by 1997 to wrest
the speed record from France's Train a Grande Vitesse, at 186
mph the world's fastest operating train. Japan's fastest
bullet train, operated by the institute's parent, can travel
at 168 mph. The French state-run railway firm SNCF, which
operates TGV, is developing a 217-mph train that it hopes to
launch in 1999.
                                                                                                       

   AFRICAN COMMON MARKET SOUGHT
                                                                                                       

   The Preferential Trade Area for Eastern and Southern
Africa said it would become a common market in five to seven
years. The 18-member PTA said plans have been completed for
trade liberalization, common tariffs and agricultural policy.
The members extend from Sudan in the north to Mozambique in
the south, a region with a population of 220 million and
total gross national product of $70 billion in 1988 -- the
latest available. The 10-year-old PTA has set up a financial
clearing house, a tribunal for disputes, traveler's checks, a
chamber of commerce, and standard customs documents.
                                                                                                       

   ALARM ON AUSTRALIAN JOBS
                                                                                                       

   The number of job advertisements in Australia last month
fell 5.7% from November, the sixth consecutive monthly
decline and the biggest drop since May. The December total
also was off 30% from the low year-earlier level. Australia &
New Zealand Banking Group Ltd., which compiles the seasonally
adjusted data, said the weakness indicates Australia's
unemployment rate will climb toward 11%. The jobless rate now
is 10.5%, the highest in decades, as employers continue
layoffs in the country's recession.
                                                                                                       

   WORKAHOLISM UNPOPULAR IN JAPAN
                                                                                                       

   Workaholics are losing favor in Japan, a poll in the Asahi
daily showed. Among women 30 to 34 years old, 78% disapproved
of workaholic men. The poll of 2,367 men and women also found
that overwork was opposed by about 70% of men aged 20 to 30
but only 30% over 60. Overall, 56% of the respondents found
little attraction in men preoccupied by work. Asked what
pleased them most in a man, 23% of the men and 26% of the
women rated work first. Next came family attachment,
kindness, and seriousness.
                                                                                                       

   HONG KONG DETAILS JOBS THREAT
                                                                                                       

   Hong Kong asserted it could lose as many as 7,200 jobs and
$200 million in service-related work if the U.S. slaps
punitive tariffs on Chinese products in retaliation for
Beijing's failure to enforce intellectual property rights.
   Investor confidence in the British colony also could be
damaged by a breakdown in Sino-U.S. negotiations on enforcing
patents, copyrights and related protections, a Hong Kong
official said.
   This could damage Hong Kong's status as a gateway to
China, he said, as two-thirds of Chinese products sent to the
U.S. are shipped through the colony.
   On Dec. 2, the U.S. listed $1.5 billion of Chinese imports
to the U.S. that were potential retaliation targets -- among
them products significant to Hong Kong manufacturers. The
list may be halved to minimize damage to Hong Kong. The U.S.
has set a Jan. 16 deadline for agreement before it would take
punitive actions.
                                                                                                       

   POSTSCRIPTS . . .
                                                                                                       

   Uruguay said about 25% of its work force, or 300,000
people, are alcoholics, causing high absenteeism, accidents
and a productivity decline. Government and labor agreed to
form a panel to deal with the problem. . . . Top Austrian
officials want to remove the hammer and sickle from the
national coat of arms, though historians say the republic's
emblem for more than seven decades was never intended to
symbolize communism.