Commodities:
   U.S. Fuel Futures Tumble on Inventory Reports,
   Bringing World Oil Prices Down With Them
   ----
   By James Tanner
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
On the New York Mercantile Exchange, unleaded gasoline for
April delivery declined 1.33 cents a gallon to settle at
58.83 cents. May gasoline dropped 1.10 cents a gallon to
60.03 cents.
   Oil analysts blamed the price drops on the industry's
latest weekly count of U.S. inventories of gasoline and
heating oil. Big multimillion-barrel decreases had been
expected for the fuels because of recent indications of firm
demand and the cold weather in the northern U.S. But the
American Petroleum Institute reported late Tuesday that
stocks of gasoline and heating oil declined last week by only
a modest 113,000 barrels and 228,000 barrels, respectively.
   "That caught everybody off guard," said Peter Beutel,
director of the energy group at Pegasus Econometric. "There
wasn't an analyst on the street predicting drawdowns that
low."
   The weakness in fuels helped pull down crude prices as
much as 17 cents a barrel in both U.S. and London futures
trading. Still, traders noted that U.S. crude for April
delivery settled at $19.07 a barrel, above the psychological
support level of $19.
   Helping to prevent a steeper fall in crude prices, some
analysts suggested, was the large drawdown -- 4.8 million
barrels -- that did take place in U.S. crude-oil inventories
last week. Also, they cited an upturn in U.S. refining
operations, which had reached the lowest level in five years
last month. According to the API, U.S. refineries operated at
81% of capacity last week, up two percentage points, or
447,000 barrels a day, from the week-earlier level.
   "We have seen the bottom of refinery utilization for this
seasonal cycle," said Robert Boslego, a Winchester, Mass.,
consultant who analyzes oil industry statistics. While a rise
in plant operations may be "negative" for petroleum products
because more will be produced, it can be "positive" for
crudes because of the higher demand for oil by the refiners,
he said.
   Firming crude prices also are foreseen by Purvin  Gertz
Inc. The refining consultants, in their latest monthly
petroleum market analysis, estimated that West Texas
Intermediate, the U.S. benchmark crude, will be back in the
$20 range by early in the second quarter.
   In other commodity markets yesterday:
                                                                                                       

   PRECIOUS METALS: Prices continued to display weakness but
did not sink as much yesterday as they did on Tuesday.
Platinum for April delivery was the weakest, falling $5.70 an
ounce to $346.90. April gold closed at $338.80, off $1.80 an
ounce. May silver fell 1.8 cents an ounce to $4.052. Tom
Griffo, metals analyst for Cargill Investors Services in New
York, said, "I think more people bought platinum ahead of the
referendum in South Africa than we anticipated." He noted
that platinum selling first became obvious early Tuesday when
returns showed the referendum proposed by President de Klerk
was winning. Traders concluded that supplies of gold and
silver were less likely to be interrupted by unrest in South
Africa. Mr. Griffo noted that additional pressure was applied
to platinum when a substantial number of traders appeared to
abandon "spread" positions consisting of being long platinum
and short gold. "Because the platinum market is so much
thinner than the gold market when traders put on or close out
these spreads, it always affects platinum more than gold,"
Mr. Griffo said. He pointed out that many traders had
initiated this spread trade in late February when platinum
was an abnormally narrow $2 away from gold's price. Even
after platinum's price collapsed yesterday, the spread still
favored platinum by more than $8. Mr. Griffo said both
markets are very close to being oversold. "But I believe that
the $336 area in gold will have to be retested successfully
before many traders will want to make a commitment to the
metal again," he said.
                                                                                                       

   GRAINS AND SOYBEANS: Prices of wheat futures contracts are
expected to rise today in the wake of the White House's
decision to immediately give the Commonwealth of Independent
States the $250 million allocation of food-buying credit
guarantees that was originally slated to become available in
April. Grain traders said that the commonwealth plans to use
$90 million of the allocation to purchase roughly 700,000
metric tons of subsidized U.S. wheat. The commonwealth is
expected to use about $52 million of the guarantees to
arrange loans to buy 450,000 metric tons of U.S. feed grains.
The rest of the allocation will be used to buy soybeans,
soybean meal, vegetable oil, and to pay for transportation,
among other things. The announcement was unusual because the
Bush administration said that Ukraine won't have access to
this latest allocation. Some traders interpreted the move as
a sign that the White House is beginning to tailor food aid
to specific republics. Ukraine has already asked the U.S. for
an independent allocation of $300 million in food-buying
credit guarantees, but it isn't clear how soon the
administration might respond to the request.
                                                                                                       

   LUMBER: May futures fell $3.30 to $253.10 for each 1,000
board feet. Bud Merrill, forest products analyst at Shearson
Lehman Brothers in Eugene, Ore., said the drop was due to a
combination of profittaking and buyers who lack strong
bullish convictions being scared out of the market. Lumber
prices have been moving up sharply since Thursday. They rose
their maximum daily permissible limit of $5 for each 1,000
board feet on both Friday and Monday and an additional $2.30
on Tuesday. Last week the U.S. government announced a
countervailing duty on lumber imported from Canada, causing
short sellers, who had sold contracts in expectation of a
price decline, to rush to buy offsetting contracts, which in
turn drove prices higher. The shorts began buying when they
learned that the lumber futures contract calls for holders of
short positions to pay all import duties. Mr. Merrill pointed
out that even after prices had run up for three days, the
futures contract still was the cheapest source of spruce
lumber. He said he remains a bull on lumber and doesn't
expect this sell-off to send prices below $247. Mr. Merrill
also noted that he expects lumber prices to reach the $265 to
$275 range before the May contract expires.