International:
   Europe's Auto Industry Seeks Shield
   From EC Against Its Japanese Rivals
   ----
   By Martin du Bois
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
"This is like a military battle," says Georges Cagnard,
government-affairs director for France's giant state-owned
Renault S.A., one of Europe's most troubled car makers. "We
can't go on fighting dispersed, with each of us tinkering
about in his little corner. There must be a Europewide
effort."
   To that end, industry executives have suddenly become
chummy with old adversaries such as Martin Bangemann, the EC
industry commissioner, and Carlo Ripa de Meana, the
environment commissioner, and their staffs. Industry and EC
officials are discussing EC subsidies for job training and
for research and development. And joint "working groups" are
preparing to collaborate in writing EC regulations covering
car safety, fuel efficiency, pollution control, recycling and
traffic management systems -- all of which will require huge
amounts of spending by auto companies.
   Any advantages that may result are likely to be slim and
short-lived, but Eurocrats and industry officials nonetheless
want to give European auto makers whatever help they can.
"We're working together in a symbiotic climate," says a
senior EC industrial-policy official. Although the EC
Commission doesn't have the power of Japan's ministry to
influence company decisions, it hopes that close cooperation
will give the auto industry a boost.
   All of this has some Japanese auto officials sounding a
lot like the foreign car makers who have been complaining for
years about Japanese industrial policies. Some of the EC's
planned new regulations "might become barriers to trade,"
warns Takayuki Imajo, director of the European office in
Brussels of the Japan Automobile Manufacturers Association.
   Japanese auto makers are most concerned about recycling
rules, Mr. Imajo says. The EC is considering requiring
manufacturers to accept old cars of their own make for
recycling. Last year, around 15 million cars were pulled off
Western Europe's roads, and the growing number of scrapped
cars has become a serious environmental problem.
   Taking back old cars would be much easier for European
auto makers than for Japanese auto makers. Most Japanese cars
sold in Europe are still made in Japan. Establishing
dismantling and recycling facilities in Europe -- when the
leading Japanese auto makers are investing enormous sums in
building their first European assembly plants -- could be a
huge burden.
   Volkswagen AG, meanwhile, seeing new recycling rules on
the way, has already designed its new Golf for easy
dismantling and recycling. It is using that as a selling
point with increasingly environment-conscious customers. In
Germany, Volkswagen guarantees buyers that it will take back
its Golf, Audi 80 and Vento models at the end of their useful
lives at no cost, and the company plans to spread the
practice to other European countries. Bayerische Motoren
Werke AG and the Adam Opel AG unit of General Motors Corp.
have also started to recycle scrap cars.
   The other European manufacturers have persuaded the German
companies to share their recycling know-how with them, with
the aim of transforming what is now essentially a German
strong point into a European one.
   The focal point of such cooperation is a year-old lobbying
organization known as the Association of European Automobile
Manufacturers -- better known by the French acronym ACEA.
With the exception of France's PSA Peugeot-Citroen S.A.,
which prefers to go its own way, ACEA includes 14 "European"
producers, including the European units of GM and Ford Motor
Co. of the U.S. They are sharing lessons drawn from the U.S.
industry's experience with Japanese competition. The group
excludes European units of Toyota Motor Corp., Nissan Motor
Corp. and Honda Motor Co., which have or are establishing
European manufacturing.
   "We're not just a dull lobbying organization," says ACEA
executive secretary Rudolf Beger. "The ACEA is a competitive
tool."
   Its effectiveness will be put to the test over the next
few years. National import quotas that have long protected
European manufacturers are to disappear next year under the
EC's single market. The quotas will be replaced by an
agreement under which Japanese manufacturers are to restrict
their imports to the EC and within certain markets for seven
years. But all limits are scheduled to end after 1999.
   "We must take advantage of this period of continued
protection to make headway," says an aide to Mr. Bangemann,
the EC industry commissioner. That's why the ACEA and the EC
Commission are keeping Japanese auto makers -- even those
investing heavily in Europe -- out of the various working
groups where future EC rules are being written and out of
EC-supported RD programs.