Commodities:
   Smaller-Than-Expected Rise in U.S. Hog Count
   Sends Pork Futures Climbing in Active Trading
   ----
   By Jeffrey Taylor
   Staff Reporter of the Wall Street Journal
Many analysts had predicted that the total would be up
about 7% at around 58,250,000. Any indication that the supply
of hogs will be smaller than expected tends to push futures
prices higher.
   Contract prices couldn't hold their strength, however,
amid continued expectations that hog production will be up
strongly in 1992. And there were indications in the
"farrowing intentions" segment of the Agriculture Department
report -- an indication of how many sows farmers intend to
breed-that fed these expectations.
   "A lot of people had second thoughts after the market's
early limit-up advance," said Charles Levitt, livestock
analyst for Shearson Lehman Brothers in Chicago. "The
farrowing intentions created a disturbed, uneasy feeling
among the traders, so once the market made its advance,
people cashed in their chips."
   In any case, an increase in total 1991 hog production of
5% from the previous year -- as the Agriculture Department
report indicated -- wouldn't be good news for pork prices
generally, which have been weak on both the cash and futures
markets for months.
   In the cash market for pork bellies, for example, prices
have been struggling to stay at 28 cents a pound, while the
February futures contract settled yesterday at 35.75 cents a
pound. Much of the difference between the two prices must be
erased between now and February, when delivery on the
February contract begins, said Dan Vaught, livestock analyst
for A.G. Edwards & Sons Inc., St. Louis.
   With cash prices as weak as they have been the past few
weeks, most analysts say, that means futures prices will fall
rather than cash prices rising.
   The cash-price weakness of pork bellies, which are uncured
bacon, made the futures price volatile yesterday. All
porkbelly futures immediately went up the twocent limit as
trading began, then fell off sharply as the day progressed.
The February pork-belly contract settled up 0.25 cent at
35.75 cents a pound.
   In hogs there was slightly more strength. The February
contract, up the daily limit at one point, settled up 0.55
cent a pound at 39.50 cents. The June hog contract was up
1.30 cents to 43.77 cents a pound.
   Cattle futures prices saw a spillover effect from price
strength in the Chicago Mercantile Exchange's pork futures
pits. In addition, cash cattle prices were firm at terminal
markets in Omaha, Neb., and Sioux City, Iowa, a change from
their weakness of recent weeks. These factors helped push the
February cattle futures price up 0.35 cent a pound to 72.27
cents.
   In other commodity markets yesterday:
                                                                                                       

   PRECIOUS METALS: Prices were mostly lower. February gold
ended at $350.30 an ounce, off $1.20; April platinum was
unchanged at $334 an ounce, and March silver fell 0.5 cent to
$3.9670. Gold and platinum set new life-of-contract lows. Tom
Griffo, precious metals analyst at Cargill Investors Services
in New York, said gold's and platinum's closes were a bit
encouraging to holders of long positions because "there was
no big follow-through to the downside after contract lows
were set." Mr. Griffo said, however, that the gold market
once again is near the low end of the trading range it has
maintained over the past several years. "If the spot price of
gold goes through the $343 area," he said, "then I believe a
new trading range will be created with $300 defining the low
side and $343 the upside." Gold's spot market price in New
York closed at $349.70. John Ball, vice president for trading
for Equidex Brokerage Group Inc., said he believes there is
some institutional support for gold because the February
contract rallied slightly on the close and finished above
$350. Platinum's weakness reflects bearish sentiment about
the economy, especially the automobile industry, Mr. Griffo
said. "I believe the top of the platinum market is now around
$350, while we are still looking for a bottom to its trading
range," he said.
                                                                                                       

   ENERGY: Petroleum futures were mixed in moderate trading.
Crude oil for February delivery settled two cents a barrel
lower at $19.21. There was little market-moving news. A
report that two oil fields in the British sector of the North
Sea were down because of high winds helped to firm up
petroleum prices but only briefly. Iraq's oil-export
situation remains a major uncertainty for oil markets. There
was little more yesterday to indicate whether the Iraqis are
willing to consider the terms advanced by the United Nations
on a proposed emergency sale of $1.6 billion in Iraqi oil.
Representatives of Iraq and the U.N. are to meet tomorrow in
Vienna to discuss the proposal. While Iraqi government
officials repeated over the weekend they won't accept the
terms, some oil-market participants suggest a compromise may
result at this week's meeting that would allow Iraq to sell
some oil on world markets.
                                                                                                       

   COFFEE: The March contract fell 0.80 cent to 78.50 cents a
pound. Melissa Trout at Cargill Investors Services in New
York said yesterday's session went about as expected. "We
believed that commercial coffee merchant selling would come
into the market above 80 cents, and it did," she said. She
also said that buying through brokerage companies supported
the market at around 78.50 cents, near the day's low. The
coffee market currently is "featureless," she said, and she
doesn't expect to see any price volatility until the
International Coffee Organization meets next month. "Even
when they start to meet, I don't expect much to happen,
because it is just a working group," she said. "But in the
past, such meetings have produced some speculative activity
as traders take positions based on expectations." Ms. Trout
said there was some fund buying of coffee futures last week,
but she doesn't expect more until prices close above 80.50
cents. "Until that price is attained, what is there to
attract them?" she asked. Ms. Trout predicted that support
for the March contract would begin at 76.80 cents a pound,
just below contract lows.