Ethyl May Get
   Extension in Bid
   For Gas Product
   ----
   By Rose Gutfeld
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Some EPA officials contend that the additive, known as
MMT, would increase emissions of hydrocarbons, which create
smog when combined with nitrogen oxide and sunlight. The
additive has been opposed by the auto makers, which will have
to begin meeting tighter standards for tailpipe emissions of
hydrocarbons and other pollutants under the 1990 Clean Air
Act revisions.
   Ethyl, based in Richmond, Va., has denied that the
additive would add to pollution from vehicles. Moreover,
Ethyl said the use of MMT could displace as much as 82,000
barrels of imported oil a day. A company spokesman said Ethyl
hasn't decided whether it would appeal through the agency or
the courts if its latest application is denied.
   While the EPA had rejected earlier Ethyl requests for
approval of MMT, the company appeared to have its best shot
with its latest application, which was submitted last July
when worries about energy security were still high in the
wake of the Persian Gulf War. Ethyl has spent more than $10
million on research and testing in the past couple of years,
in part to address concerns that the additive might add to
pollution and that insufficient data was available. It is
also seeking to add smaller amounts of the substance to
gasoline than it did previously.
   Michael Whitlow, a spokesman for Ethyl, said the company
tested a fuel containing MMT against a non-MMT fuel on 48
cars, each of which ran an average 75,000 miles. He said the
tests showed MMT would cut tailpipe emissions of nitrogen
oxide, a contributor to smog, about 20%, and reduce carbon
monoxide emissions about 7%, although emissions of
hydrocarbons would rise slightly.
   Mr. Whitlow called MMT "a low-cost, easy-to-produce octane
enhancer." Octane boosts engine performance. He said MMT
would be "a significant product" for the company, which had
1990 sales of about $2.5 billion for its life insurance and
chemical businesses.
   Ethyl, however, hasn't been able to win over the auto
companies, which have argued that MMT both adds to pollution
and damages catalytic converters and other pollution-control
equipment. Under the revised Clean Air Act, auto makers also
will be required to guarantee that emission-control equipment
lasts for 10 years, or 100,000 miles, up from five years, or
50,000 miles currently.
   "We're scratching to meet the tighter standards," said
Kelly Brown, a Ford Motor Co. engineer, "we don't need
anything that goes the other way." Jack Dinan, a General
Motors Corp. spokesman said, "As engineers we just don't
think it makes any sense."
   The opposition to MMT by some EPA officials was based
partly on data submitted by several auto makers. The agency
would use a delay to look more closely at this information.
   Environmental groups also have argued that MMT could pose
a health risk by increasing exposure to manganese, a toxic
substance. "There just isn't adequate information on the
effect of low-to-moderate doses of manganese," said Karen
Florini, a senior attorney at the Environmental Defense Fund.
"It's not appropriate to conduct an uncontrolled experiment
on the American populace."
   Ethyl's Mr. Whitlow said the additive is safe and
contended that exposure to manganese hasn't been found to
increase in Canada, where MMT has been used for about 13
years.