Winter Olympics 1992:
   Television Highlights
   ----
   By Kevin Goldman
Women's figure skating begins with favorite Kristi
Yamaguchi, 20, from Fremont, Calif., up against Japan's
Midori Ito. Other U.S. contenders are Nancy Kerrigan and
Tonya Harding. Also tonight on CBS are the women's giant
slalom and highlights from the hockey quarterfinals.
                                                                                                       

   Where's the Pulse?
                                                                                                       

   CBS is trying its best to mix it up a bit with prime-time
hosts Paula Zahn and Tim McCarver with decidedly mixed
results. Chitchat between Ms. Zahn and skiing commentator
Andy Mill about Italy's ski star Alberto Tomba quickly became
sophomoric when Mr. Tomba was shown kissing an autographed
picture of Ms. Zahn. Mr. Mill wondered whether Ms. Zahn's
pulse went up at that sight. We were left wondering when CBS
was going to get back to showing events.
                                                                                                       

   Hockey Excitement
                                                                                                       

   Far better was the analysis of the hockey game between the
U.S. and Sweden. Mr. McCarver effortlessly guided analyst
John Davidson through the thrilling rough-and-tumble game
that ended in a 3-3 tie.
   CBS's coverage of nordic combined ski jumping was dismal.
It inexplicably cut away from jumps before they were
concluded.
                                                                                                       

   Ratings Success
                                                                                                       

   On Monday, CBS was watched by 23.6% of U.S. homes with TV
sets, according to preliminary numbers from A.C. Nielsen Co.
NBC trailed with 14.5%, ABC drew 11.3%, and Fox scored a puny
5.6%.
   ---
                  Wednesday, February 19
                                                                                                       

     7-9 a.m.              1-6 p.m.             8-11 p.m.
      CBS                   TNT                    CBS
                                                                                                       

  -- Speed skiing      -- Alpine skiing      -- Figure
     live                 (women's giant        skating
                           slalom)              (women's
                                                original
                                                program)
  -- Biathlon live     -- Biathlon           -- Alpine
     (women's 15 km.)     (women's 15 km.)      skiing live
  -- Alpine skiing     -- Figure skating        (women's
     live                 (women's original     giant
     (women's giant        program)             slalom)
      slalom)          -- Hockey             -- Hockey
                          (U.T. vs. Fin.;       (highlights)
                          Swe. vs. Czech.)
                                                                                                       

   All times are Eastern Standard; events are available for
coverage, but plans may change.