Marketing  Media:
   Authors' Rights Movement Gains Speed,
   Fueled by Dispute on Royalty Payment
   ----
   By Meg Cox
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Although results of the audits haven't been released yet,
the Simon  Schuster audit has sparked a messy confrontation
with author Gordon Inkeles that may wind up in court. Mr.
Inkeles wrote "The Art of Sensual Massage" 20 years ago, and
Simon  Schuster bought the rights from another publisher
some years later. Mr. Inkeles had complained for years to
Simon  Schuster's royalty department about various mistakes,
including foreign editions, for which he was underpaid. "I
agreed to an audit to straighten things out, but instead the
company has made my life miserable for a year," said Mr.
Inkeles.
   The author claims that after the audit was announced,
Simon  Schuster came after him seeking the return of an
advance on another book he was co-writing years ago. He says
the publisher gave him a verbal agreement for an extension at
the time, but later canceled the book. Once the audit was
announced, Mr. Inkeles said, Simon  Schuster started
confiscating his royalty checks for "The Art of Sensual
Massage," amounting to $6,000 so far, to pay for the other
book's advance. Now, Mr. Inkeles has threatened to sue the
publisher if it doesn't swiftly return the rights to "Sensual
Massage," which seems unlikely.
   The Guild won't comment on the results of the audit, but a
spokesman says it believes Simon  Schuster's reaction has
amounted to "what appears to be a pattern of harassment."
   Simon  Schuster says it isn't harassing Mr. Inkeles and
has tried hard to cooperate with the Guild audit. "Mr.
Inkeles owes Simon  Schuster the balance on a $14,000
advance for a book he was paid for but never delivered," says
Mark Morril, the publisher's general counsel. "We have a
legal right" to extract that money from the other book's
royalties, "and we have done so."
   With the publishing industry in contraction as a result of
mergers and tough economic times, more such disputes are
expected to emerge. "There is broad agreement that the
situation for writers is deteriorating and perilous," said
Jonathan Tasini, president of the National Writers Union.
"Everything from advances shrinking and slower payment of
royalties to more canceling of books under contract after an
author has spent years of work."
   "The gentlemanly days are over. It's a new climate; it's
hardball time," said novelist Erica Jong, current president
of the 6,500-member Authors Guild. "There is an enormous and
growing arrogance on the part of publishers and we see them
taking off after authors who ask for their rights. We are
being forced to become more militant to protect our members."
   One result is a new coalition of professional writers
groups that includes the Writers Union, the Authors Guild,
and groups representing everyone from journalists to
screenwriters. The coalition, led by such well-known writers
as Susan Cheever and Ms. Jong, has drafted a "Declaration of
Writers' Economic Rights." It declares that writers are
entitled to, among other things, timely payment of royalties,
minimum contract standards, and a right to negotiate
collectively.
   The coalition plans a "Writers' Rights Day" on June 9 in
New York to raise awareness and demonstrate the groups'
solidarity. "We'll dramatize the situation of the average
writer in this country," said Ms. Jong.
   Despite the hornet's nest it has stirred up with this
first round of royalty audits, the Authors Guild says it will
soon start a second round. "It's so difficult and costly for
an individual author to instigate an audit," says Ms. Jong.
"Audits are interpreted by publishers as a hostile act and
this shouldn't be. We have to support our authors."