Metropolitan
   Life to Purchase
   New York Firm
   ---
   Insurer Seen Buying Assets
   Of First Executive Unit
   For Up to $70 Million
   ----
   By Susan Pulliam
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Metropolitan is expected to manage, for a fee, the New
York company's pension and structured settlements business.
This business is expected to stay under the control of
regulators, and the money put up by Metropolitan will be used
to cover any future losses in that business.
   Spokesmen for both the New York Insurance Department and
Metropolitan refused to comment.
   Executive Life of New York, along with the larger
California company, Executive Life Insurance Co., both units
of First Executive Corp. of Los Angeles, was seized last
spring by regulators following losses on its junk bond
portfolio and heavy withdrawals by policyholders. The New
York unit, which has $3 billion in assets, is only about
one-third the size of the California company and is
considered to be healthier financially.
   The expected agreement will ensure that nearly all of the
New York unit's 100,000 policyholders will receive 100 cents
on the dollar, people close to the deal said. It is unclear
how soon annuity holders and life insurance policyholders,
whose money has been frozen, will have access to their funds
under the agreement. Presumably, some incentive would be
given to policyholders to entice them to leave their business
with Metropolitan.
   The transaction will allow the businesses being bought by
Metropolitan to emerge from the control of regulators. The
plan must be approved by the court overseeing the
rehabilitation.
   The agreement caps months of quiet negotiations between
New York regulators and potential buyers of the businesses of
Executive Life of New York that contrasted sharply with the
highly public auction of the California company by John
Garamendi, California insurance commissioner.
   In the final months of last year, Mr. Garamendi approved
the sale of the California company to a French investor group
in a transaction that will inject $3.55 billion into the
insurer. The transaction will also involve assessments, which
could top $1.9 billion, to major life insurance companies
through guarantee funds.
   The New York plan, by comparison, isn't expected to
include any assessments to the industry through guarantee
funds, the industry's safety net for depositors.
   The purchase by Metropolitan will involve the transfer of
roughly $1.4 billion in cash and cash equivalents from
Executive Life of New York. Metropolitan won't receive any of
the New York unit's junk bond portfolio, with a book value of
about $1.9 billion. Instead, the junk bonds will back up the
pension and structured settlement business that is remaining
under the control of regulators.
   In the days before the takeover of the New York company,
Metropolitan was said to be considering taking over the
company. When the seizure was announced, the company and
regulators backed away from that idea, saying that
Metropolitan, as the largest member of the state guarantee
fund, would play a leading role in advising regulators on the
rehabilitation.
   Metropolitan, the nation's second-largest life insurance
company after Prudential Insurance Co. of America, led a
rescue plan for Baldwin-United in 1984, the largest insurance
failure until First Executive. Under the plan, Metropolitan
also took over the annuity business of Baldwin. The
arrangement with Metropolitan was criticized at the time
because some believed the transaction was overly favorable to
Metropolitan.
   Executive Life of New York's takeover follows several
instances last year when Metropolitan considered coming to
the aid of troubled companies. In May, merger talks with
Mutual Benefit Life Insurance Co. fell through. The Newark,
N.J., insurer was later seized by regulators.
   Then Metropolitan considered a merger with Mutual Life
Insurance Co. of New York, which was experiencing large
surrender requests last summer from its pension contract
holders. Those talks fell through last fall. Instead,
Metropolitan offered MONY's pension customers the chance to
move their business from MONY. Only a third of those offered
the deal switched their accounts, however.