ROVER, mutt, s. Rex and Misty.
   Student, Fang Sch. Obedience...
   ----
   By Robin Goldwyn Blumenthal
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
And the only criterion for nomination is that the owners
must feel the animals "have made an important contribution to
their lives." Thus, among the nearly thousand or so entries
the publishers have received so far are everything from
life-saving cats to a short-lived goldfish.
   "You realize for many people their only friend is their
pet," says publisher Harriet McCormick, who came up with the
idea several years ago "as a joke."
   Ms. McCormick, who owns an executive search firm, and her
publishing partner, Norma Calitri, are even planning a
section for dead pets called "Who Was Who."
   Putting pets in print is "a form of narcissism and
immortalization," says Irene Deitch, a family psychologist in
New York who does a lot of work with pets and bereavement.
Dr. Deitch also notes that pet attachment is "big business."
   But what price glory? Although immortalizing old Spot in
the book is free (except for an optional $10 fee to include a
photo), the book will carry a prepublication price of $39.95
(after publication, $59.95).
   "I just did it to have her little name in print forever,"
says Courtney Shaw, who honored her "guard cat," Mingling Joy
Shaw. Although she finds the publication "very pricey," Ms.
Shaw, who heads the University of Maryland's art library,
says she was motivated by her "absolute love of animals to
the point of almost zaniness." She says her cat saved a house
guest from a burglar. "They both started meowing and
screaming," a cacophony that apparently scared away the
prowler.
   Deborah Jorgensen, a legal secretary in Everett, Wash.,
has submitted entries for her cat, Sir Lancelot; her dead
cat, Missey Kitten; her father's dog, Schnappsy; and her
mother's dog, Schultzy. She plans to give her father the
Who's Who as an 80th birthday present.
   What does the American Kennel Club, a registry for
purebred dogs, think about elevating pets to celebrity
status? "Probably no one would have a problem with that,"
says Noreen Rubin, manager of public education. "There are
dogs that have done incredibly gallant things."