Commodities:
   Oil Prices Hit Lowest Level in 10 Months on Signs
   Of Progress in Talks on Resuming Iraqi Exports
   ----
   By Allanna Sullivan
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
Also pressuring prices downward yesterday were remarks by
Deputy Energy Secretary Henson Moore, who is traveling this
week in Saudi Arabia. He told reporters that oil prices "are
low and may even go lower before the world economy improves."
   The recent sharp decline in oil prices is the result of a
number of bearish factors including slack demand because of
exceedingly warm weather in major oil consuming areas of the
world and the highest output levels by members of the
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries in a decade.
   "And reports that there may be an agreement between the
U.N. and Iraq comes on the back of all this bearish news,"
said Michael Rothman, senior energy futures analyst for
Merrill Lynch  Co. "It's what the market has been fearing
and led to disproportionate selling."
   The Iraqis haven't exported any oil into global markets
since sanctions were imposed on such sales following Iraq's
invasion of Kuwait in August of 1990.
   After the first of two days of scheduled meetings in
Vienna, Amir Al-Anbari, Iraq's U.N. Ambassador, said that
U.N. officials appeared to be showing some "flexibility" on
the rigid stance they have been maintaining. Kofi Annan, the
U.N.'s representative at the talks, said the two sides "were
making progress."
   The U.N. has proposed a plan that would allow Iraq to sell
$1.6 billion of oil. Proceeds of the sale would go into an
escrow account to be used for humanitarian purposes only. The
Iraqis have remained adamantly opposed to such a plan, which
they claim would rob their government of its sovereignty.
   Oil analysts believe that Iraq could easily produce
between one million and 1.5 million barrels daily, up from
current levels of about 450,000 barrels. How much of that
could be exported, however, is open to question. A portion of
the export pipeline, which runs through Turkey, is under the
control of the Kurds. And reconstruction of Iraq's export
facility at Mina al-Bakr, which was damaged during the war,
is still under way. Analysts believe that only 250,000
barrels daily can move through al-Bakr, down from three
million barrels daily prior to the war.
   In other commodity markets yesterday:
                                                                                                       

   GRAINS AND SOYBEANS: Grain futures prices rose on fund
buying and rumors that three nations will be targeted for
export credits that entitle them to buy U.S. wheat. Major
commodity funds, which are organized pools of investors'
money, were big buyers late in the trading day as rumors
swirled on the floor that Egypt, Yemen and the Philippines
may soon become eligible for U.S.-subsidized wheat, said
Daniel W. Basse, market research director for AgResource Co.,
Chicago. This helped push the price of the March wheat
contract up 8.25 cents to $4.0450 a bushel. Meanwhile,
Exportkelb, the grain-buying agency for the formerly Soviet
Commonwealth of Independent States, appears to have completed
back payments on $80 million to $90 million for previous
grain shipments. This may clear the way for the Bush
administration to grant the C.I.S. additional credits for
purchase of U.S. grain in the future. The price of the corn
contract for March delivery rose 3 cents to $2.530 a bushel,
while the March soybean contract was up 7.50 cents to $5.6550
a bushel.
                                                                                                       

   COTTON: Futures prices weakened. Cotton for March delivery
fell 0.99 cent a pound to 59.44 cents. Sharon Johnson, cotton
specialist at Cargill Investor Services in Atlanta, said some
traders are concerned that "miserable" export sales in recent
weeks will prompt the government to lower the adjusted world
price of U.S. cotton this afternoon after the market closes.
Such a move would pull futures prices lower. Also
contributing to the weakness may have been some profit-taking
ahead of the Agriculture Department's report on production
and supply and demand tomorrow, she said. Several times in
recent weeks, prices have rallied briefly because of
technical factors, then retreated, but they remain in the
range of 58 to 61 cents that has prevailed since early
November.
                                                                                                       

   COCOA: Futures prices continued to decline. After trading
as low as $1,169 a ton, cocoa for March delivery recovered
somewhat to end at $1,186, down $11. Sandra Kaul, analyst at
Shearson Lehman Brothers, attributed the decline to
continuing talk that the Ivory Coast crop might be larger
than anticipated. Adding to the confusion is the fact that
industry estimates of cocoa movement from the interior to
ports in the Ivory Coast don't reflect an increased crop
size. Those cocoa "arrivals," which are already less than
year-ago amounts, are expected by some industry members to
slow down in the next few weeks, Ms. Kaul said. Uncertainty
about the crop size has prompted investors to liquidate long
positions that many have held since early fall, she said.
Investors liquidate long positions, or bets the price will
rise, by selling offsetting contracts. Ms. Kaul added that
because production is still expected to fall short of demand
this year, prices will eventually resume an upward trend.