Marketing & Media -- Advertising:
   Hill & Knowlton Faces New Wave
   Of Criticism Over Its PR Tactics
   ----
   By Joanne Lipman
A column on the opinions page of yesterday's New York
Times accused Hill & Knowlton of helping its client, Citizens
for a Free Kuwait, spread false tales of Iraqi atrocities
that all but prodded the U.S. into the war in the Persian
Gulf last year. And a new lawsuit seeks to drag the firm into
the BCCI scandal. The suit charges that Hill & Knowlton
painted its former client as a legitimate business and helped
publicize "the false information necessary to conceal
{BCCI's} reckless, improper and illegal business activities."
The federal lawsuit, filed in California by depositors of
Bank of Credit & Commerce International, also names more than
50 other defendants.
   Hill & Knowlton, a unit of London's WPP Group, insists
that allegations made by a Kuwaiti girl -- that Iraqi
soldiers yanked hundreds of Kuwaiti newborns out of
incubators and left them on the floor to die -- are true. In
the BCCI lawsuit, the firm denies any wrongdoing but declines
to comment on specifics of the case.
   But the new assaults on Hill & Knowlton's aggressive PR
tactics for its controversial clients are prompting the
boldest round yet of Hill & Knowlton-bashing by other PR
executives. Hill & Knowlton has gone well beyond standard PR
to practice "propaganda . . . exaggeration," contends Alfred
Geduldig, a PR consultant.
   Hill & Knowlton's actions in a number of instances have
"clearly been borderline, as far as PR ethics is concerned,"
contends Paul Holmes, editor of Inside PR, a trade
publication. He, too, calls some of the firm's work on behalf
of both BCCI and Kuwait "propaganda" and adds: "There's a
widespread feeling within the industry that Hill & Knowlton
has brought some discredit on our business."
   Guy Smith, a senior executive with Hill & Knowlton in New
York, says the PR firm isn't involved in propaganda. He said
the firm is simply doing its job by helping clients
articulate their stories: "There's nothing underhanded or
seedy about it."
   The latest attacks come, ironically, as Hill & Knowlton
has been trying to clean up its reputation. It forced out its
high-profile chief executive officer, Robert Dilenschneider,
in September after a series of controversial and embarrassing
moves.
   The firm's anti-abortion work for the National Conference
of Catholic Bishops sparked widespread dissent within the
firm's own ranks. Hill & Knowlton garnered headlines when it
represented the Church of Scientology, whose business empire
and alleged techniques of harassment were coming under
intense public scrutiny. The firm also has represented
Turkey, despite frequent charges of human rights abuses
there.
   But the latest two incidents may be the most embarrassing
yet. The New York Times piece disclosed that a 15-year-old
Kuwaiti girl who tearfully told the Congressional Human
Rights Caucus in October 1990 how Iraqi soldiers pulled 15
infants from incubators and left them "on the cold floor to
die" was more than she seemed.
   The girl, identified only as "Nayirah" supposedly to
protect her safety, was actually the daughter of the Kuwaiti
ambassador to the U.S., Saud Nasir al-Sabah. Hill & Knowlton,
which helped organize the hearing and presented Nayirah as a
witness, knew her true identity.
   Nayirah's father defended his daughter in a statement
yesterday, calling the article "irresponsible" and saying her
testimony was the truth.
   The Times piece also catalogued a nest of
behind-the-scenes ties among Hill & Knowlton, several members
of the Congressional Human Rights Caucus and Hill & Knowlton
client Citizens for a Free Kuwait. The article charged, for
example, that the Kuwaiti group donated $50,000 to a human
rights group created by caucus members and housed in Hill &
Knowlton offices. "I'd call that influence-peddling," John R.
MacArthur, the article's author and publisher of Harper's
magazine, said in an interview yesterday.
   Hill & Knowlton's Mr. Smith dismisses Mr. MacArthur's
attack as an attempt to sell a coming book on the subject.
And as for the close ties among the various groups, he says,
"There's nothing illicit or inappropriate or underhanded
about it." If such associations were considered improper, he
says, "the government of the U.S. would have to come to a
screeching halt."
   The BCCI case, meanwhile, raises questions for all PR
firms. The case, filed under the federal Racketeer Influenced
and Corrupt Organizations Act, alleges that Hill & Knowlton
knowingly spread false information about the bank. In effect,
the suit holds Hill & Knowlton responsible for the
information it disseminates; it suggests that depositors
trusted BCCI largely because Hill & Knowlton painted it as a
respectable institution.
   If successful, the suit could prompt a flood of copycat
actions against PR firms any time a PR client gets into legal
trouble. And while some lawyers said Hill & Knowlton and
other PR firms might be protected by First Amendment
guarantees of free speech, the lawyer who filed the suit
disagrees. Says William Lerach of Millberg Weiss Bershad
Specthrie & Lerach: "A PR firm has no more First Amendment
right to lie than BCCI."
   ---
   Anacin, Riopan Accounts
                                                                                                       

   Whitehall Laboratories, a unit of American Home Products,
shuffled agency assignments for its Anacin pain reliever and
Riopan antacid, depriving New York incumbent Partners &
Shevack of $33 million in billings.
   Interpublic Group's McCann-Erickson, New York, picked up
the bulk of the business, landing the estimated $28 million
Anacin account. New York agency Avrett, Free & Ginsberg
snared the estimated $5 million Riopan business. McCann
handles other Whitehall brands -- Dristan and Preparation H
-- while Avrett Free already has the company's Dimetapp
account.
   Partners & Shevack retains an estimated $10 million in
billings for Whitehall's Denorex dandruff shampoo and
Primatene asthma remedy. In addition, industry executives say
the agency is a contender, along with Avrett Free and
incumbent Young & Rubicam, in the review for American Home
Products' estimated $8 million Pam cooking spray account.
   ---
   Ad Notes. . . .
                                                                                                       

   NEUTROGENA DECISION: As expected, Neutrogena awarded
portions of its estimated $30 million-plus ad account to two
small agencies, Carlson & Partners, New York; and Atlas
Citron Haligman & Bedecarre, San Francisco. Following a
review, the skin and hair-care products concern said it will
keep Eisaman Johns & Laws, Los Angeles, as its agency of
record, but will terminate its relationship with Interpublic
Group's Dailey & Associates, which had handled part of the
account for the past couple of years.
                                                                                                       

   WHO'S NEWS: Jeanne Chinard, executive creative director at
Ayer, New York, is leaving the agency to accept a senior
creative position at Young & Rubicam under executive creative
director Helayne Spivak, industry executives say. Ms. Chinard
couldn't be reached for comment. . . . Skip Roberts,
57-year-old executive vice president and general manager of
W.B. Doner's Detroit office, is leaving the company after 35
years for Ayer's Detroit office as director of strategic
planning, focusing on General Motors' corporate account.