Credit Markets:
   Bond Prices Rise on Treasury's Announcement
   Of Smaller Than Expected Quarterly Refunding
   ----
   By Constance Mitchell and Kevin Donovan
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
As widely expected, the Treasury cut the amount of 30-year
bonds and 10-year notes it will sell at next week's huge
refunding of the federal debt. The size of the 10-year note
auction was cut to $11 billion from $12 billion sold at the
Treasury's previous quarterly refunding in November. The size
of the 30-year bond auction was reduced to $10 billion from
the $12 billion sold in November.
   The overall size of the package -- $36 billion -- is $2
billion less than in November and less than most analysts had
anticipated this time around. Many market observers believed
that a cut in the auction size of the Treasury's two
long-term securities would be offset by increases elsewhere,
such as in the three-year area.
   But the three-year notes were boosted by just $1 billion
to a total of $15 billion. Although it has been widely
reported that the Treasury was considering reducing the
auction size of both the 30-year bond and the 10-year note,
the announcement regarding the 10-year note nevertheless took
some investors by surprise. That may explain why the price of
the 10-year Treasury note posted the largest gains in the
market.
   Steven Ricchuito, financial economist at Barclays De Zoete
Wedd Securities Inc., says the 10-year notes also were helped
by the unwinding of dealers' hedging positions related to
mortgage-backed securities.
   In trading, the bond market's bellwether security, the
30-year Treasury bond, rose 1/4 point, or $2.50 for a bond
with a $1,000 face amount. The price of the benchmark 30-year
bond ended at 103, up from 102 24/32 on Tuesday. The issue's
yield, which moves in the opposite direction of its price,
eased to 7.72% from 7.75% on Tuesday.
   In when-issued trading for the Treasury securities, which
kicked off immediately after the auction announcement, yields
on the three-year notes to be sold next Tuesday ended at
5.53%. The 10-year notes to be sold next Wednesday ended at a
yield of 7.21% and yields on the 30-year bonds to be sold
Thursday ended when-issued trading at a yield of 7.75%.
   Today, the Treasury will sell a record $12.75 billion of
one-year bills. James Somers, president of Somers Asset
Management, Radnor, Pa., says that traders will be closely
watching the bidding statistics of that auction. He says that
if there is strong bidding for the bills, it might mean that
investors are nervous about the refunding and may want to
load up on safe short-term securities instead. If the bidding
is weak, he said, it may signal that investors are saving
their cash to put to work at next week's auction.
   On today's economic calendar are initial unemployment
insurance claims, December factory orders, January chain
store sales data and weekly money supply figures.
   A Dow Jones Capital Markets Report consensus of economists
expects jobless claims fell 21,000 in the week ended Jan. 25
after rising 24,000 the prior week.
   Factory orders are expected to have declined 2.6% after a
0.6% rise in November. M2, the monetary aggregate most
closely tracked by the Fed, is seen having risen $5.4 billion
in the week ended Jan. 27 after rising $16.1 billion the
prior week.
   Of more concern to the bond market is the key January
employment report, to be released Friday. Another Dow Jones
Capital Markets Report consensus expects nonfarm payrolls
rose 33,000 in January after rising 31,000 in December.
                                                                                                       

   Corporate  Junk Bonds
                                                                                                       

   It was a big day for new junk bonds. Federated Department
Stores Inc., rejuvenated after two years in bankruptcy
protection, emerged from Chapter 11 yesterday -- an event
marked on Wall Street by frenzied trading in the retailer's
new stock and bonds.
   It was barely two years ago that Cincinnati-based
Federated and Allied Stores Corp., both subsidiaries of
Canada's Campeau Corp., filed for bankruptcy protection.
   Though Federated's stock and bonds have been trading on a
when-issued basis in the over-the-counter market for weeks,
the equity and bonds were listed for the first time today on
the New York Stock Exchange.
   Federated's 10% Series B notes, due in 2000, gained two
points to end at 95 in over-the-counter trading. The
company's 9% Series D notes, maturing in 1997, added 2 1/2
points to end at 97 1/2 in the over-the-counter market.
   Andrew Herenstein, a senior analyst at Delaware Bay Co.,
is bullish on the new Federated securities. "Essentially, the
company is in a de-leveraging spiral," says Mr. Herenstein.
"They have paid down a lot of debt and they are going to
continue to do that."
   Mr. Herenstein says that while Federated Department Stores
was in bankruptcy, it succeeded in reducing its debt load to
$3 billion from $8 billion.
   Although analysts expect both new Federated Department
Stores public bond issues to perform well in the secondary
market, they are particularly bullish on the Series D notes.
   "The Series D notes are my favorite because of the heavy
fees," says Max Holmes, director of bankrupt and distressed
research at Salomon Brothers Inc., who thinks the Series D
notes could trade up to 102 over six months.
   Even though the Series D notes carry a coupon of 9%, the
yield on the notes is actually higher because bondholders
were paid up-front fees to buy the securities. They have also
been promised fees each year if they are holding the notes.
   Since Federated Department Stores has to use proceeds from
a stock offering to pay off the Series C and D notes,
analysts expect the securities will be retired before
maturity. Federated has "pledged" to sell a significant
number of shares in the next year and a half to raise cash
and pay down debt.
   In the broader high-yield market, prices of most junk
bonds, or speculative-grade bonds with low credit ratings or
no credit ratings at all, ended 1/8 to 1/4 point higher.
Investment-grade corporate bonds also edged higher.
                                                                                                       

   Municipal Bonds
                                                                                                       

   Municipal bond prices ended unchanged to 1/4 point higher,
finishing in positive territory for the first time this week.
   Meanwhile, bonds of the Washington Public Power Supply
System finished unchanged after a session of volatile, choppy
trade.
   Activity in the bonds, which usually see very limited
trade, was spurred by a federal court ruling that clears the
way for payments to holders of $2.25 million of the nuclear
power agency's defaulted securities. The 1983 default on the
Project No. 4 and 5 bonds of the supply system, known as
"Whoops," marks the largest in municipal bond history.
   Among seasoned tax-exempt issues, the Florida Board of
Education's 6.70% issues of 2022 finished 1/4 higher at 100
1/2 to yield 6.64%.
   Late yesterday, traders quoted WPPSS No. 4 and 5 bonds,
the 5.75% issues of 2018, at a bid of 11 1/2, unchanged on
the day. Earlier, prices had been volatile amid uncertainty
about the value of the bonds after the court decision. At
that time, some dealers said that speculators boosted prices
of some WPPSS issues as much as 1/4 point.
   The court ruling, by a federal appeals court judge calls
for $800 million to be distributed among holders of the $2.25
billion of defaulted bonds.
                                                                                                       

   Mortgage  Asset-Backed Securities
                                                                                                       

   The Treasury's $1 billion reduction in the amount of
10-year notes it will sell in next week's refunding gave a
boost to mortgage securities prices as well.
   Mortgage securities closely track intermediate government
securities, and as those U.S. issues rose, 7.5% issues from
all three agencies spiraled up 23/32 in sympathy. Government
National Mortgage Association 7.5% securities for February
delivery ended at 98 7/32, Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp.
Gold 7.5% securities were at 97 14/32 and Federal National
Mortgage Association 7.5% securities ended at 97 7/32.
   Also helping was continued demand for mortgage securities
as collateral for new real estate mortgage investment conduit
deals.
   Underwriters announced an additional $2.2 billion of
Fannie Mae Remic securities today, via three new offerings
and the substantial increase of an outstanding deal.