International:
   Backlash to Russian Price Rises
   Stops Short of Violence So Far
   ----
   By Adi Ignatius
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
"Nothing extraordinary has happened yet," says Andrei
Nechaev, Russia's first deputy economics minster, who
traveled with President Boris Yeltsin on a recent tour of
Russian cities. "Our worst fears haven't been realized."
   In Tashkent, the capital of the central Asian nation of
Uzbekistan, consumer disgruntlement turned deadly Friday as
university students took to the streets to protest higher
food prices and a shortage of bread. According to Russian
news accounts, troops and police ordered to disperse the
students shot and killed at least two protesters and injured
dozens more. Authorities tried to calm the situation by
closing schools until Feb. 10, though a tense standoff
remains.
   The tragedy in Tashkent may well portend similar protests
elsewhere. Yet observers in Moscow thus far have been struck
by the relative patience of the citizenry. Prices for most
goods have vaulted skyward this winter. In Moscow, bread
prices are up 3.5 times, butter has gone up five to six
times, while prices of sausage are as much as 10 times
earlier levels. Most frustrating of all, despite the higher,
market-driven prices, which are meant to spur greater
production, shortages of many goods persists.
   While there is a strong sense of unhappiness among
consumers, many seem willing to hunker down. "It has become
extremely difficult to live," says Sergei Kirov, a taxi
driver in Moscow. "But I'm willing to put up with hardship
today if it means that things will get better tomorrow."
   The Russian government remains worried that labor groups
will call for widespread strikes to protest worsening
economic conditions. So far, though, workers by and large
have kept working. The Russian Federation of Independent
Trade Unions had called for mass disobedience around the
country Friday, though there were virtually no significant
protests, according to the Russian Interfax news agency.
   Miners in the Kuzbass coal fields in Siberia, who have
frequently been at the forefront of protest strikes in recent
years, held brief rallies Friday but are continuing to work,
Interfax reported. By contrast, last April, when the
government pushed through an earlier round of price rises,
Kuzbass miners went on strike, shutting down more than 50 of
the region's mines and demanding the resignation of
then-Soviet President Mikhail Gorbachev. There have, however,
been work slowdowns this month at mines in Kazakhstan and in
the Donbass region of Ukraine.
   In Moscow, leftist opponents of Mr. Yeltsin have organized
demonstrations the past two weekends. The rallies, in which
protesters have carried posters of former Soviet leaders
Lenin, Khrushchev and even Stalin, have been instructive,
disclosing that there are many Russians who fear the new
economic reforms and who pine for the days when society was
more orderly and prices were low. Still, such sentiments
appear to remain on the fringe so far.
   Beyond the economic turmoil, the attitude of the military
is a critical question mark on the survival of the new
Commonwealth of Independent States. On Friday, some 5,000
military officers from all over the former Soviet Union met
in Moscow in an extraordinary congress. Coming after the
controversial price rises and as several leaders of the new
Commonwealth had proposed breaking up the former Soviet
military, there was talk of a rebellion in the ranks. Rumors
even surfaced that another coup might be imminent.
   At the start of the meeting, the head of the commonwealth
forces, Marshal Yevgeny Shaposhnikov, called for calm,
telling the armed forces that they represent the "last border
on the path to final disintegration of the country, the last
boundary beyond which chaos and tragedy are possible."
   After a day of stormy discussion, which was broadcast live
throughout the commonwealth, relative calm prevailed. The
officers adopted a resolution calling for the army to remain
united. In an attempt to cool the air, Mr. Shaposhnikov
declared that the military forces "are not going either to
oust any leader or bring any politician to power."
   Despite weathering the first 17 days of life under a
free-market system, the Russian government is bracing for
further unrest. Mr. Yeltsin, who enjoyed tremendous
popularity after successfully resisting the failed coup last
August, now concedes that "the applause has died down."
   Says Mr. Nechaev, Mr. Yeltsin's deputy economics minister,
"We are holding our breath."