IRS Delays Rules
   Covering Benefit
   Nondiscrimination
   ----
   By Albert R. Karr
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The move to postpone the rules until next Jan. 1 came
after Senate Finance Committee Chairman Lloyd Bentsen (D.,
Texas) and Sen. David Pryor (D., Ark.) complained to the
Treasury Department, the IRS parent, that the regulations
were too complex and poorly prepared. Last week, the
lawmakers introduced a bill to postpone the rules for a year.
   "I and my staff appreciate the concerns raised by you and
your colleagues, as well as affected taxpayers and
practitioner groups," said IRS Commissioner Fred Goldberg in
a letter released by Sen. Pryor. "Since publication of the
final nondiscrimination regulations, we have received a
number of requests for additional changes that merit review."
   Mr. Goldberg pledged to work with taxpayers and others "to
better understand their concerns and develop appropriate
solutions, consistent with our mutual interest in assuring
that broad-based pension coverage is provided to
rank-and-file employees."
   The Erisa Industry Committee, an employer group based in
Washington, D.C., complained that the rules clashed with the
Bush administration's recent push to eliminate burdensome IRS
and other federal regulations. And it argued that the rules
could put U.S. companies at a disadvantage in international
competition. For instance, a U.S. concern would face problems
with the IRS if it tried to acquire a foreign company whose
benefits are out of line with the those of the domestic
concern. Overseas companies wouldn't face such complications
in acquiring U.S. operations.
   Sens. Bentsen and Pryor also noted that plan sponsors were
given less than four months to comply with the rules, even
though the IRS took three-and-half years to draft them.
   The agency's notice, in effect, gave most pension plans
until Jan. 1, 1993, to comply with the rules. Plans for
government workers were given until Jan. 1, 1995, to comply.
The IRS said the extension will give employers more time to
review the regulations, and the IRS time to consider the
hundreds of suggestions it has received for improving them.
   The IRS asked for comments, among other things, on "safe
harbor" provisions, which are designed to allow certain plans
to comply with the rules without having to go through
rigorous benefits tests. Most plans aren't able to meet the
current safeharbor requirements, complained the Association
of Private Pension and Welfare Plans, another employer group.
   The IRS also is seeking suggestions for alternative ways
for employers to test for compliance.
   Mark Ugoretz, president of the Erisa Industry Committee,
said the group told the IRS in a meeting last week that the
rules would mean massive and sometimes daily testing of
retirement plans. Some employers already have spent more than
half a million dollars just to determine whether their plans
comply with the regulations, he said. Some companies think
the plans may be workable, "but the problem is, you have to
pay an actuary to find out," says Howard Weizmann, the APPWP
executive director.
   The IRS rules would let employers compare pension benefits
for employees in each operating unit, rather than having to
meet a corporatewide test, under "separate lines of business"
rules. But that widely sought provision was written quite
narrowly. One company found it couldn't consider its
elevator-making unit separate from its janitorial services,
because the IRS said elevator production wasn't a broad
enough part of its business.
   "The rules won't lead to greater equality, they'll just
lead to fewer plans," Mr. Weizmann said.
   The 600-page IRS rules on pension benefits grew out of a
few lines in the 1986 tax law. A similar, more lengthy
provision of that law, "Section 89," set up complex
procedures to prevent discrimination in health and other
benefits; it provoked such a firestorm of criticism that
Congress repealed Section 89 about two years ago.