Entertainment:
   Record Makers Giving Retailers the Blues
   ----
   By Meg Cox
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
At the convention of the National Association of Recording
Merchandisers, which ends today, it is clear that the ire of
the retailers is rising and that this is just one issue
increasing tension between retailers and record companies. In
a tight economy, the retailers are going to have to spend
millions to change fixtures to accommodate the new package,
plus increase security to prevent more thefts, a cost they
say consumers eventually will bear. And there's more: this
fall, two new technologies will be introduced to consumers,
digital compact cassettes and tiny, recordable CDs, Sony
Corp.'s Mini Disc, and retailers will have to alter their
stores to carry the new disks and cassettes.
   At the same time, as Robert Morgado, chairman of Time
Warner Inc.'s Warner Music Group, made clear in his keynote
address, record companies plan to sell more and more records
directly to consumers, not just through record clubs but also
catalogs and 800 numbers, thereby competing with the
retailers.
   "The frustration level is definitely rising," says Russell
Solomon, founder and owner of the Tower Records chain. "This
CD box thing is the worst decision the record industry ever
made, and they did it by royal fiat. Most stores will have to
use these plastic security trays called keepers which cost a
bundle and are ugly as hell. We can't boycott the record
companies, but we'll protest this every way we can."
   "There's a lot of surprise and anger" at the record
industry's attitude and the new decree, says Mark Siegel of
Shamrock Entertainment, owner of the Sound Warehouse and
Music Plus chains. "No one's at the barricades yet, but we'll
be talking to our lawyers" about whether the decision, made
collectively by the big six record companies "was improper."
   Ultimately, the retailers don't expect to get the move
reversed: "I'm outraged, but a realist," says Ann Spector
Lieff, convention chairman and head of a 60-store Miami-based
chain. But retailers say the change will raise CD retail
prices and could hurt the environment, despite the claims of
record companies.
   Robert Schneider, executive vice president of Western
Merchandisers, which supplies records to about 650 Wal-Mart
stores and also to "mom and pop" retailers, estimates the
industry's total cost for alterations will be $125 million to
$150 million. "Bottom line, the consumer will pay 45 cents to
50 cents more for a CD," predicts Mr. Schneider, "and they
already think they cost too much." He also says that,
according to his calculations, the use of the plastic
security devices could add as much as 30 million pounds of
plastic to landfills a year, undoing the environmental good
of banning the original cardboard box.
   After a speech by the association president calling for a
reversal of the decision, Jason Berman, head of the Recording
Industry Association of America, said, "It won't be
reversed." But he said, the record companies have agreed to
consider compensating retailers for the added costs.
   ---
   The economic climate may be stormy, but the music outlook
is rosier, retailers said as they heard new-release
presentations from each label. Recorded-music sales for the
1991 second half aren't out, but the first half saw an 11%
drop in unit sales, proof that the record business wasn't
recession-proof as some in it thought.
   "We've been in a lull since January, with no huge releases
since Michael Jackson and U2 in November," says David Roy,
senior music buyer for Trans World Music Corp., a 600-store
chain. "But the spring looks very promising. On March 31,
we've got two releases that should be huge: the new Def
Leppard album, which appeals to 15 to 25 year olds, and two
new Bruce Springsteen albums, which appeal to the over-30
buyer. We need big records like these to get people into our
stores."
   Each of the record companies presented an elaborate video
display of its spring and summer releases, interspersed with
live entertainment, promoting a mixture of established and
new artists. The most ambitious presentation was that of
PolyGram N.V., hosted by comedian Jon Lovitz of Saturday
Night Live, who told jokes and introduced such live
performers as Vanessa Williams, the a capella group Boyz II
Men and Melissa Etheridge.
   Sony Music brought along its latest discovery, a
23-year-old French Canadian named Celine Dion, a major star
in Canada but new in this country. Like pop diva Mariah
Carey, Sony's last big discovery, Ms. Dion has a big,
well-trained voice, and Sony hopes to capitalize on her hit
single "Beauty and the Beast," from the movie. Her album,
"Celine Dion," will be in stores March 31, and Sony will
market aggressively what its promotional material calls "a
once-in-a-generation voice."
   The recent boom in country and the success of folk/rocker
Bonnie Raitt have helped put the record business in the mood
for mellow, non-electronic music and EMI Music's Capitol
label is betting on a new duo called the Cages, whose first
album, "Hometown," is due in May. Hale Milgrem, president of
Capitol, who signed the two young men from Georgia and
Alabama after they sang in his office, beamed while they
played guitars in the label's hospitality suite. "Their
harmonies are magical and there's something very pure about
them," says Mr. Milgren, who plans to launch them through
college radio and touring.
   Elvis fans will be happy to know that the RCA label of
Bertelsmann AG's Bertelsmann Music Group plans to re-issue
practically all its Elvis Presley catalog on CD, a project
that could total 50 disks.
   ---
   The good news for consumers is that not only is there a
flood of new releases coming in every category from rap to
classical, but they soon will have more opportunities to
listen to new records before buying them. Listening posts
were common in this country in the 1950s, but have long since
all but disappeared.
   In-store listening devices, already installed in some
stores around the country, are becoming more sophisticated
and should become common in the next several years, retailers
here say. "Let's face it, it's a no-brainer for Springsteen
fans to buy his new album, but how do you know you want to
spend $15 for a CD from somebody you never heard?" says Mr.
Roy of Trans World, which owns Record Town and Coconuts
stores. "We have listening posts in our newer stores. They're
heavily used, and though I don't have statistics, it does
sell records."
   On the convention floor among the makers of t-shirts,
security devices and record racks, were several makers of
instore listening systems. But the most ambitious and
sophisticated system seems to be the "i-station" kiosk being
demonstrated here. In development for several years with the
support of most of the major labels, the kiosks will be
test-marketed over the next several months at three chains,
including Tower Records.
   To use the i-stations, consumers get a re-usable card by
filling out their demographic data. Then, consumers grab any
CD or cassette with a blue "i it before you buy it" sticker
and wave the album's bar code under a scanner. On an
interactive computer screen, they touch which singles they
want to hear, and then touch the screen to rate each album.
The information is then relayed to the labels. The machines
hold as many as 20,000 complete albums; most current
listening devices offer 100 or less. The question remains
whether record companies will pay the fees Intouch Group
Inc., the machine's maker, plans to charge: to include one
record for one year in 1,000 stores, the cost would be
$28,000.