Politics  Policy:
   Transport Chief
   Seeks Withdrawal
   By FAA Nominee
   ----
   By Laurie McGinley
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The story first appeared in the Washington Post, which
also said that Mr. Curry had been asked to resign from his
current job as administrator of the National Highway Traffic
Safety Administration.
   Yesterday, administration officials disputed that Mr.
Curry had been asked to leave his NHTSA job. The officials
acknowledged, however, that Mr. Curry might have construed
Mr. Busey's comments to mean Mr. Busey wanted him to resign
from NHTSA. Neither Mr. Curry nor Mr. Busey would comment.
   President Bush nominated Mr. Curry for the FAA post Nov.
22. At the same time, Mr. Busey, then FAA administrator, was
named deputy transportation secretary. He became acting
secretary in mid-December after Samuel Skinner left the
Transportation Department's top job to become White House
chief of staff.
   Mr. Curry's nomination as FAA chief immediately drew fire
from auto-safety activists Ralph Nader and Clarence Ditlow,
executive director for the Center for Auto Safety, who
contended he hadn't done enough to promote auto safety. At
their request, Sen. Howard Metzenbaum (D., Ohio) held up
Senate action on his nomination. Aviation groups also were
unhappy about the selection of Mr. Curry, arguing that he
didn't have enough experience for the FAA job.
   In late January, Mr. Curry met with Alan Maness, the top
auto-safety aide to Sen. John Danforth (R., Mo.).
Administration officials said they were later told that Mr.
Curry criticized both Mr. Maness, for being too close to
auto-safety groups, and Mr. Skinner, for not being
conservative enough.
   Mr. Busey was angry when he was told about the remarks,
administration officials said, because he considered them
disloyal to Mr. Skinner and because he had asked Mr. Curry to
keep a low profile until his nomination was confirmed. Mr.
Busey then told Mr. Skinner that he would ask Mr. Curry to
withdraw his name from consideration for the FAA post. Mr.
Skinner, who had chosen Mr. Curry for the FAA job, backed Mr.
Busey's decision, saying it was an internal matter for him to
handle, according to administration officials.
   Administration officials also said that the meeting with
Mr. Maness was only one of a series of incidents that raised
questions in Mr. Busey's mind about Mr. Curry's judgment. But
Barry Felrice, NHTSA's associate administrator for
rulemaking, said yesterday that Mr. Curry had done a good job
at the agency and that he should be rewarded, not punished.
   A spokesman for Sen. Danforth said that the senator
doesn't oppose Mr. Curry's nomination, but he declined
further comment.