Bipartisan Panel on Education Urges
   National Standards, Voluntary Exams
   ----
   By Hilary Stout
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The 32-member panel of educators, politicians and others
stressed that it wasn't calling for a national curriculum,
but simply the establishment of high standards setting out
what U.S. children ought to know in history, science,
English, math and geography. Schools would be encouraged to
mold their course work to reach the standards, or they could
choose to ignore them.
   "Our intent is to increase our educational expectations,"
declared Carroll Campbell Jr., the Republican governor of
South Carolina and co-chairman of the council. Added
co-chairman Roy Romer, the Democratic governor of Colorado:
"We're not approaching this on the basis of being a whip.
This is something that's going to be so good that everyone is
going to want to do it."
   The panel, called the National Council on Education
Standards and Testing, was created by Congress in June,
shortly after President Bush laid out a broad strategy for
improving U.S. education that included setting "world class
standards" and instituting a voluntary system of national
exams. Its mission was to study the "desirability and
feasibility" of creating standards and tests.
   Although the committee made its report only yesterday, the
Bush administration has already moved ahead in the effort to
develop standards. In December, it awarded a $1.6 million
grant to the University of California at Los Angeles to
develop a set of history standards. In September, it
announced a $500,000 grant for the National Research Council
to formulate standards in science. It also has embraced
standards laid out last year by the National Council of
Teachers of Mathematics. Teachers in schools across the U.S.
are already working to apply the new math guidelines.
   In its report to Education Secretary Lamar Alexander, the
council on education standards said the standards must
"reflect high expectations, not expectations of minimal
competency." The assessment system must also be "voluntary"
and consist of "multiple methods of measuring progress, not a
single test," the report said.
   It would probably be left to states or to groups of states
to develop exams, possibly with financial aid provided by the
Education Department.
   Currently, there are privately administered national tests
for college-bound high school students, but the idea of a
national test for all grade-school, middle-school and
high-school students has long been controversial. Proponents
say it would measure and discipline students and their
schools. But a variety of education and civil rights groups
worry that national tests would discriminate against
low-income and minority students. Also, they argue that
reform must concentrate on improving schools, not simply
gauging how bad they are.
   Monty Neill, associate director of FairTest, a Cambridge,
Mass., organization pushing for testing reform, said the
"fundamental question" is whether establishing voluntary
national standards and tests "will do anything for education.
In our view, they {the council} have not made that case."
   But Secretary Alexander predicted the standards and tests
would lead to "massive teacher retraining." For students, he
said, it would likely mean "more homework and harder work."
He added, "It may be difficult for parents because we're
asking children to learn more and different skills from their
parents."