Law:
   Merger Guidelines
   Are Being Revised
   By Justice Agency
   ----
   By Joe Davidson
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
The proposed guidelines would eliminate the current 35%
rule, which triggered government scrutiny of a merger if one
party held 35% of the market, according to a lawyer familiar
with the proposal. Additionally, the proposed policy concerns
only horizontal mergers, that is, one company's taking over
another in the same industry, and no longer deals with
non-horizontal mergers, such as a brewery's obtaining a
glass-bottle manufacturer, as do the current guidelines.
   The Justice Department's newsletter, DOJ Alert, reported
that the five steps would seek to determine if a proposed
merger would:
   -- Significantly increase concentration in an already
concentrated market.
   -- Have adverse competitive effects.
   -- Not preclude entry into the market of competitors that
could counteract any adverse competitive effects.
   -- Provide efficiency gains that would outweigh any
anti-competitive effects.
   -- Include a company that was likely to go out of
business, anyway. In such cases, the merger would be allowed.
   The reported five points are similar to the current set of
considerations now used in analyzing mergers. James Rill,
chief of the department's Antitrust Division, wouldn't
comment on the specifics of the proposed guidelines, but did
say they would attempt "to clarify and deal with some of the
issues in greater detail."
   The 1984 guidelines are "quite sound," he said. The
current revision is meant to provide a "framework" for "a
more detailed analysis of {market} entry and a more detailed
analysis of competitive effects," Mr. Rill added.
   Antitrust lawyers expect the guidelines to be announced at
an American Bar Association meeting next month, but Mr. Rill
said there is no target date for the release. "The guidelines
are still in draft form, and we're still conducting some
reviews and internal analysis," he said. "We're working very
hard to resolve all the issues."
   FTC officials had complained that an earlier guideline
draft would have made merger enforcement tougher. The FTC and
the Justice Department, which share antitrust-enforcement
duties, have been working out their differences, according to
government lawyers.
   ---
   Corrections  Amplifications
                                                                                                       

   THE DOJ ALERT newsletter is published by Prentice Hall Law
 Business. Friday's edition incorrectly indicated it was
published by the Department of Justice.
   (WSJ March 23, 1992)