To Tom Clancy,
   The Real Bad Guys
   Work in Hollywood
   ---
   Top-Selling Author Is Aghast
   Over Script of His Book;
   He May Plot His Revenge
   ----
   By Meg Cox
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
There are few similarities between the book and the film,
he says. "The movie is also about Irish terrorists trying to
kill Jack Ryan, but there is only one, maybe two, scenes in
the shooting script that correspond to a scene in the book,"
complains Mr. Clancy. "They have a movie called `Patriot
Games' that uses my characters -- but it's not my story."
   That isn't Mr. Clancy's only beef. He is angry that the
script calls for coral reefs in the Chesapeake Bay, where
there aren't any, just so a boat can get smashed on them. The
44-year-old former insurance agent grouses that Harrison Ford
is too old for the lead (CIA agent Jack Ryan is 31, Mr. Ford
is 47). He says he is offended that a bunch of Hollywood
liberals have Jack Ryan's wife making disparaging remarks
about the Central Intelligence Agency. He is aghast at what
he says are egregious technical errors. "You would never
shake an aerosol explosive before throwing it]" he bellows.
   Unable to get major revisions, despite telephone shouting
matches with producer Mace Neufeld, Mr. Clancy has vowed
never to work with the studio again: "I don't like eating
dirt, and I won't eat any from these guys," he says.
   Novelists whose books are turned into Hollywood movies are
often less than happy with the final product. But Mr.
Clancy's attack on Paramount has been unusually belligerent.
Also rare is Mr. Clancy's clout, which comes from his
standing as the top-selling novelist of the past decade (more
than 30 million books in the U.S. alone) and from the fact
that "Patriot Games," Paramount's biggest-budget release for
1992, is only part of the deal. The studio also bought "A
Clear and Present Danger" and the rights to develop Jack Ryan
movies independent of Mr. Clancy's books. "The Hunt for Red
October," another Clancy best-seller, was released by
Paramount in 1990 and has pulled in gross revenue of $200
million world-wide.
   Though Paramount's only contractual obligation is to show
Mr. Clancy the script, the studio's top executive, Brandon
Tartikoff, did go to Maryland to placate the irate author.
Mr. Clancy says he was promised that, "to the extent
possible" in the last four weeks of shooting, aspects of his
novel will be added to the movie.
   Some authors have hailed his robust defense of his work,
Mr. Clancy says. But others are decidedly unsympathetic.
   Pat Conroy, author of "The Prince of Tides," says writers
owe Hollywood gratitude, not enmity. Though little of his
original screenplay for "The Prince of Tides" survived in the
movie version, he says, "Barbra Streisand had the right to
make the Wingos into a family of Eskimos if she wanted. She
bought the rights. And not only did she pay me a whole lot of
money, but my book is back at No. 1 on the {New York Times}
paperback best-seller list."
   He also says, "I have huge excesses as a writer, and I'm
glad they didn't put in things like the part where I have a
rapist eaten by a tiger."
   "I understand what Clancy is going through," says Scott
Turow, whose novel "Presumed Innocent" was made into a movie.
"But you have to recognize that a lot of what's precious to
you isn't precious to somebody else. When Sidney Pollock
bought the rights to the book, he told me some idea he had
and I made a face. He said, `Look. It's your book, but it's
my movie.'"
   That trade-off was well understood by the western writer
Louis L'Amour, who sold nearly half his 100-plus books to the
movies. Even when "Broken Gun" became a Bob Hope comedy bomb
called "Cancel My Reservation," the late Mr. L'Amour didn't
make a fuss. "My dad used to say it was like selling a
house," says his son Beau L'Amour. "The next guy had a right
to redecorate if he wanted."
   But many authors aren't so sanguine. Joseph Wambaugh so
hated the movie made from "The Choirboys" that he bought back
the film rights to two of his novels and made his own movies.
"We broke even on the Onion Field but lost money on {`The
Black Marble,'} partly because the distributing studio went
bankrupt," says Mr. Wambaugh. "Investors who were friends
lost money and so did I, and it was just a stupid thing to
do." He adds, "Clancy shouldn't get upset because the people
who make movies know something by now: The ticket buyer is
incredibly stupid. It doesn't matter where they put the coral
reefs."
   In their defense, producers argue that for every good book
that becomes a movie flop there is a "Gone With the Wind" or
"Godfather" or "Wizard of Oz" that's as good or better than
the book.
   "Can you be perfectly true to the author and create the
best film? Often, that's impossible," says Peter Guber,
chairman of Sony Pictures Entertainment, and one of
Hollywood's biggest book buyers. "`The Witches of Eastwick'
was a very dense book, and out of something like 5,000 scenes
we had to pick 120. At its core is this idea of three women
conjuring up the devil in the form of a man. That was John
Updike's idea, but he didn't create Jack Nicholson's
performance."
   Adds Joe Roth, chairman of Twentieth Century Fox Film
Corp.: "Let's be fair: A director does not set out to spend
two years of his life" trying to abuse an author.
   As for treating writers badly, producers note that authors
do have avenues of revenge. The late Isaac Bashevis Singer
was so displeased with Barbra Streisand's adaptation of his
story "Yentl" that he interviewed himself in the New York
Times, calling the movie an abomination equivalent to "having
Anna Karenina marry an American millionaire instead of
committing suicide."
   Even Mr. Clancy concedes that it is somewhat indecorous
for him to complain so loudly after banking more than $1
million for "Patriot Games." "I was dumb enough to sign the
contract," he says. "I thought I could trust them because
they stopped short of a lot of stupidity in `Red October.'"
   One insider at Paramount says that the studio would like
to keep Mr. Clancy happy so that he will help promote
"Patriot Games" when it comes out. But, he adds, the author's
temper tantrums got to be disruptive, and "Clancy was
relentless about silly, minute details." Mr. Clancy says his
memos ran as long as 14 pages, single spaced.
   Actually, Mr. Clancy did win a few. The offending coral
reefs were removed. But then they were replaced by jagged
rocks. "The geologic formation here basically leaves us with
laminated dirt on the coast," he says he explained to Mr.
Tartikoff. "You can't hurt a boat very badly with sand and
clay."
   Mr. Clancy hopes that some of his book will find its way
into the movie. If not, he plans revenge, though he won't say
what it is. In the meantime, he has turned down Paramount's
huge offer for rights to his latest novel, "Sum of All
Fears," and if he is horrified by how "Patriot Games" turns
out, he can always refuse to sell the next one at all.
   "Ultimately, it's the author who decides, and I have no
respect for authors who sell and then {complain}," says one
Hollywood executive. "Every studio has tried to buy `Catcher
in the Rye,' the classic book about growing up, but J.D.
Salinger won't sell. Therefore, Salinger's vision of Holden
Caulfield is the only one we carry in our minds: He will
never turn into River Phoenix or Tom Cruise."