Foreign Exchange:
   Dollar Continues to Gain Against Yen
   Despite Intervention by Bank of Japan
   ----
   By Charlene Lee
   Special to The Wall Street Journal
During yesterday's Asian session, the Japanese central
bank sold dollars at 131.00-131.10 yen, but the move proved
ineffective as participants jumped on the opportunity to buy
dollars cheaply.
   The U.S. currency also was quoted at 1.6680 marks, up from
1.6570 marks late Tuesday. Sterling was trading at $1.7250,
down from $1.7380.
   In early trading Thursday in Tokyo, the dollar was at
131.70 yen, up from 131.50 yen at Wednesday's Tokyo close.
The U.S. currency also was trading at 1.6702 marks, up from
1.6623 marks Wednesday.
   In the absence of major political and economic
developments, traders largely attributed the dollar's rally
to technical factors. Some participants base their investment
decisions on charts of the dollar's past performance, placing
orders to be executed when the currency reaches certain key
points on their graphs.
   As the dollar rose and hit those points, at 1.6620 marks
and later at 1.6680 marks, it "opened the floodgates" for buy
orders around those levels, said Bank of Boston chief dealer
Jerry Egan.
   "It was kind of a snowball effect," said Lee Kassler,
assistant vice president in New York for National Westminster
Bank USA. "As we started drifting higher, the market realized
it needed more dollars."
   Attempts by the Bank of Japan to stem the dollar's rally
early in yesterday's Asian session went for naught as players
lined up to buy dollars for yen on dips in the exchange rate.
   The central bank's move had "almost no noticeable effect,"
said Joseph Cambria, foreign-exchange manager in New York for
Banque Paribas. He added that the market's inclination for
the time being is to sell the Japanese currency.
   "They have two problems {in Japan}. They need to cut
interest rates and the stock market needs stimulating," said
Mr. Cambria.
   Traders and analysts said intervention efforts will fail
to satisfy the market's current appetite for dollars,
especially in Japan. Fund managers there have recently been
heavy buyers of dollars as they square their books ahead of
the end of Japan's fiscal year on March 31.
   In addition, a comment by U.S. Treasury Undersecretary
David Mulford that he isn't worried about current exchange
rates indicated that the Bank of Japan may be alone in future
intervention attempts. In January and February, the Japanese
central bank was joined by the Federal Reserve Bank of New
York in selling the U.S. currency.
   "I think the central banks have learned that you can't
step in front of a moving train," said J. Adam Hewison,
research director of the Rich Financial Group, Shady Side,
Md.
   Dealers added that the dollar was pushed to session highs
of 1.6735 marks and 132.20 yen, levels it hadn't seen in four
months, on a couple of rumors circulating in the currency
markets near the close of the European session.
   The European currency market was rife with speculation
that the Bundesbank had withdrawn from its regular
price-checking exercise late in the afternoon. Many had
feared that the German central bank would intervene in the
foreign-exchange market to cool the dollar's rise.
   The U.S. currency got further help from a rumor
circulating in North American trading rooms that the Labor
Department would revise downward January's 91,000 decline in
U.S. nonfarm payrolls. February unemployment data for the
U.S., along with revisions for January, are scheduled for
release tomorrow.
   According to an average of estimates from economists
surveyed by Dow Jones Capital Markets Report, nonfarm
payrolls are expected to have expanded by 10,000 in February.
The civilian unemployment rate is seen remaining steady at
7.1%.
   Traders said many players are looking to the data to fuel
a further drive in the dollar, possibly to as high as 1.7
marks. An improvement in the U.S. employment picture would
fundamentally support a stronger dollar, Mr. Hewison said.
   "It's becoming more widely accepted that in terms of the
U.S. recession, the worst is behind us," he said.