Inquiring Eyes:
   An Israeli Contract
   With a U.S. Company
   Leads to Espionage
   ---
   Arbiters Say Israel Stole Data,
   And It Wasn't First Time
   The Ally Spied in America
   ---
   Just Intrigue Among Friends?
   ----
   By Edward T. Pound and David Rogers
   Staff Reporters of The Wall Street Journal
Among the contents: documents written in Hebrew allegedly
describing plans to steal Recon's secret and commercially
valuable spy-camera technology.
   The case created a momentary stir in the courts, with
Israel denouncing the company's ensuing charges of spying as
"irresponsible." But like so much involving the U.S. and
Israel, the legal case -- after an initial hearing in federal
court in New York -- quickly went behind closed doors, where
it was bitterly debated before a panel of New York arbiters
and ultimately buried in sealed files.
   The contents of the arbiters' February 1991 sealed
decision recently became known to The Wall Street Journal.
The panel ruled that the Israeli agents had indeed used
"elaborate subterfuges" to steal some of the company's plans
for the spy camera, which, the arbiters said, was considered
by the Israeli government to be "very important to its
national security interests." Denouncing the "sordidness" of
the affair, the arbiters ordered Israel to pay $3 million in
damages to Recon.
   The case establishes for apparently the first time in a
U.S. legal proceeding that Israel stole high-tech secrets
from an American company. The arbiters expressed incredulity
that the agents who stole the plans were never reprimanded by
their government for the theft.
   Though it's impossible to know whether such incidents are
widespread, the Recon case isn't the only example of Israeli
espionage in the U.S. For decades, the U.S.-Israel
relationship has been marked both by cooperation and mutual
distrust and deception. Irn the most celebrated case, a Navy
intelligence analyst named Jonathan Jay Pollard was
discovered in 1985 selling U.S. military secrets to Israel.
But an inquiry by this newspaper found additional evidence of
intelligence activities and intrigues involving the two
allies:
   -- Israel appears to have gained access to confidential
U.S. procurement documents in an effort to glean design
information on a Pentagon electronic intelligence project,
according to testimony and evidence submitted in the Recon
case. The alleged security breach gave Israel insight into
U.S. research and development of the highly classified
project, which remains under development by the Air Force.
   -- Rafael (Rafi) Eitan, a former Israeli spymaster who
directed the Pollard spy operation, also cultivated senior
American officials and unsuccessfully tried to recruit a high
Pentagon official, Noel Koch, for possibly improper
out-of-channel activities, according to former U.S.
officials.
   -- The U.S., for its part, used electronic surveillance
and wiretaps to monitor the Israeli Embassy during the 1970s.
Former law-enforcement and military intelligence officials
tell of keeping tabs on U.S. citizens as part of a heretofore
secret counterespionage project -- dubbed Scope -- to assess
Israeli intelligence efforts in this country.
   Israeli officials in the U.S. and Tel Aviv repeatedly
declined to be quoted by name, but they deny any allegations
of espionage. "We aren't spying in the United States," says a
Defense Ministry official in Tel Aviv.
   Nonetheless, Israel's passion for military security, in
conjunction with its arms-based economy, has made it willing
to adopt unusual means to obtain defense technology,
law-enforcement officials say -- and Americans are among its
most frequent targets. The officials describe Israel as among
a handful of friendly countries -- including Pakistan, South
Korea and France -- that have appeared intent on gaining
access to American technology.
   Opportunities are abundant. As a favored ally and customer
of American defense contractors, Israel has easy access to
weapons plants. Israeli scientists and military officers work
side-by-side with American defense contractors engaged in
classified U.S. projects.
   The matter has become even more urgent because of
arms-proliferation concerns in the wake of the Cold War.
Although driven first by its own security concerns, Israel
also relies on weapons sales to sustain its industry and
military research. It maintains world-wide standing as an
arms merchant, and has supplied weapons to China, for
instance, and to South Africa, even as Pretoria was helping
arm Iraq.
   Yet while the U.S. has guarded against intelligence
penetration and technology theft by Israel, on another level
it has seemed willing to look the other way. In 1986, the
U.S. investigated alleged efforts by Israel's military
mission in New York to illegally obtain U.S. technology for
making cluster bombs, but law-enforcement officials said they
had to scrap the potential prosecution because of diplomatic
concerns. The State Department, says former U.S. Customs
Chief William von Raab, "guillotined" the case. Abraham
Sofaer, the legal counsel to the State Department at the
time, says that there may have been legitimate questions of
diplomatic immunity involved, but that no one in the
department undermined the inquiry.
   Israeli officials point out that their defense industry
has shown itself skilled at adapting technology as well as
making breakthroughs on its own. They say the U.S. has
benefited from Israeli advances, most recently in the Gulf
War. Israel's defenders also say that some U.S. officials may
be suspicious of the country in part because it enjoys
considerable support in Congress. This political clout can
breed resentment in Executive Branch agencies that control
military technology. "There is sort of a whiplash effect,"
says Mr. Sofaer. "Israel is treated preferentially in
Congress and the bureaucracy reacts" unfavorably.
   The friction over espionage and technology contrasts with
a history of cooperation between U.S. and Israeli spy
services. Soviet weapons captured by Israel in Lebanon later
served to arm U.S.-backed anti-Sandinista forces in
Nicaragua. In a 1983 memo, Robert McFarlane, then national
security adviser, mused that whenever Congress increased aid
to Israel, Israel perhaps should divert the added funds to
U.S. operations in Central America.
   But at the same time, U.S. officials say Israel typically
maintains two sets of intelligence stations -- one recognized
and one secret -- even in friendly nations. Over the years it
has been apparent to old counterespionage hands just how
active Israel has been even in the U.S. As head of the
Justice Department's internal security section, John Davitt
had a front-row seat. Though the Soviet Union was "light
years ahead of Israel," says Mr. Davitt, who retired in 1980,
"those of us who worked in the espionage area regarded Israel
as being the second most active foreign intelligence service
in the United States."
   Today, former intelligence officials say they aren't aware
of any active programs to combat alleged Israeli spying. A
former FBI official says Israel isn't considered a "hostile"
country, and isn't on the Justice Department list of
countries to be watched.
   Yet during the late 1960s and early 1970s, according to
several former senior U.S. officials, the FBI and military
intelligence worked in a secretive counter-espionage program
known as Scope. U.S. agents kept periodic tabs on the
activities of some Americans whom they say Israel was
attempting to recruit, especially military and corporate
personnel. Officials say Israel in part was motivated by a
desire to obtain sensitive military technology through the
back doors of corporations.
   According to one retired high-level military intelligence
official, Israel was attempting to recruit young Americans in
colleges and military academies "for long-term use. . .down
the road." In some cases, he says, "we approached the
individual {target} and neutralized the situation. We would
tell them, `You are under possible assessment by a foreign
intelligence operation. If you are approached, let us know.'"
He says many targets were unaware they were being recruited.
   A former Air Force counter-intelligence official adds that
Scope "was primarily the collection of information,
indicating what they were doing and where they were doing
it." He adds, "Of course, it was terribly politically
sensitive because we were great friends with the Israelis."
Some former intelligence officials say investigative leads
came from electronic surveillance that the FBI placed on the
Israeli Embassy and other facilities.
   Scope was closed down in the early 1970s because of
concerns that investigators might be violating Americans'
constitutional rights, according to a former U.S. official.
The "net was too broadly cast," he says. "They were picking
up people they did not intend to pick up." Asked about this,
current FBI officials say they don't comment on "past
operational matters."
   Former intelligence officials say the later Pollard spy
case was a classic example of what Scope had been designed to
detect and prevent. Israel maintains that Mr. Pollard was
part of a rogue intelligence operation within its Ministry of
Defense -- an explanation that most U.S. officials dismiss
out of hand.
   The man who knows most of the answers about the Pollard
case, Rafi Eitan, a former spy and counter-terrorism adviser
to Israeli prime ministers, isn't saying much -- even today,
years after the operation he masterminded was exposed, to
Israel's great embarrassment. "I covered for others, but I
don't want to elaborate," he says during a two-hour interview
in his home in a Tel Aviv suburb. "I wouldn't help myself and
would harm others" by discussing the Pollard case.
   Mr. Eitan, a short, balding man of 65, spent years working
in Israeli intelligence, including the elite Mossad, gaining
a wide array of contacts in high levels of the U.S.
intelligence community. He won everlasting fame in Israel
after he helped capture the Nazi war criminal Adolph Eichmann
in 1960.
   "Rafi Eitan is one of the best people in the
{intelligence} business," says a former senior U.S. official
who knows him well. Indeed, while Mr. Eitan in the mid-1980s
was directing the Pollard operation as the head of Lakam, a
since-disbanded intelligence unit in the Defense Ministry, he
was cultivating important friends in the Reagan
administration and the intelligence community.
   A former senior Pentagon official felt a chill from one of
Mr. Eitan's approaches. After the Pollard case broke, Noel
Koch, a former Pentagon official involved in
counter-terrorism policy, reported to superiors that he
believed Mr. Eitan had tried some months earlier to recruit
him for activities that Mr. Koch feared were improper. A
former Pentagon official says Mr. Eitan's lure included what
Mr. Koch saw as an improbable scheme to use money to obtain
freedom for U.S. hostages in the Middle East. In a memo to
his superiors, Mr. Koch described the overture, which, he
said, occurred in a Tel Aviv lounge.
   Another former Pentagon official, Richard Armitage, now a
senior State Department official, who was Mr. Koch's boss at
the Defense Department, confirms that Mr. Koch was "afraid"
that Mr. Eitan had tried to lead him astray. Mr. Eitan
declines to comment on the Koch matter.
   It is against this backdrop of years of spy-vs.-spy
intrigue that the Recon/Optical industrial-espionage case
came to light. The case involved an aerial reconnaissance
system that the American company was building for Israel
under the U.S. military-aid program. The project included
providing Israel with two cameras, a ground station and a
communications system.
   Recon later alleged that when it caught Israeli Air Force
officers removing confidential technical drawings from its
plant in Barrington, it also determined that restricted
information had already been shipped to Israel. Recon claimed
that Israeli Air Force officers passed along propriety data
to a competing Israeli company so the competitor could make
the system on its own. Recon alleged that the company, El Op
Electro-Optics Industries Ltd., an Israeli defense contractor
that also does work for the U.S., participated in the scheme.
   El Op's former managing director, Nathan Sharoni, says in
an interview, "There was no conspiracy between the Air Force
and El Op, to my best understanding. Nobody wanted to steal
the technology of Recon/Optical."
   After reviewing evidence, the three-man panel from the
American Arbitration Association found that Israeli Air Force
officers had, in fact, worked hand-in-hand with El Op to
steal Recon's secret plans. At one point during the
clandestine operation of more than one year, Israeli military
officers stationed in Recon's facility were asked by El Op to
plant an "undercover" El Op representative on the project,
according to Israeli documents that Recon filed in the case.
Questions from El Op officials were transferred to the
military officers by Israeli Air Force intelligence
operatives. El Op and military officers also discussed
"cover" stories to mask their stealing, the documents show.
   After presiding over four years of secret litigation, the
arbitrators ordered Israel to pay Recon $3 million, plus
interest dating to June 1986, for what it described as the
covert "misappropriation" of the company's proprietary data.
At the heart of the theft, they said, was data on
sophisticated semiconductor chips critical to electronically
recording and transmitting the camera images.
   The arbitrators had few kind words for Israel, bluntly
admonishing it for "perfidious," "unlawful" and
"surreptitious" behavior in filching Recon's data. Notably,
in a portion of its decision handed down in November 1988,
the panel also criticized Recon for unilaterally breaking its
$44.8 million contract with Israel during the initial
commercial dispute over the cost of the project -- the
conflict that led to discovery of Israel's espionage. It
later also chastised the company for "casual" and "slipshod"
protection of its data.
   The arbitrators held that the operation hadn't been
sanctioned by senior Israeli officials. But they pointedly
suggested that Israeli government officials sought to cover
up the mess and withhold information that might have shed
light on the theft. This conduct, the panel said, was
"extremely unfortunate." In perhaps their most damning
comment, the arbitrators said that Israeli Air Force officers
assigned to monitor the project with Recon were later
disciplined not for the theft, but for letting the theft come
to light.
   In this regard, the arbitrators observed that Motti
Harkabi, described as an Air Force officer and one of the
"direct perpetrators" of the theft, was soon employed on
Israel's new contract to re-procure the camera system from
another company, Loral Fairchild Systems in New York. "I was
an engineer," Mr. Harkabi said in a brief telephone
interview, "not a spy."
   The Customs Service briefly investigated the Recon affair
in 1986. A senior Customs official says the case would have
been difficult to prosecute but suggests that the inquiry
died from "a lack of interest" by U.S. officials to pursue
such cases. Customs, he says, requested a ruling from the
administration on whether the Recon manufacturing data
required a U.S. export license, but never got an answer.
   The covert efforts to steal Recon's data coincided with
Israel's interest in a larger and much more sensitive
tactical intelligence program being developed by the U.S. in
the same period. Known today as the Joint Services Image
Processor, or JSIP, the classified system is intended to
speed the transmission of data from reconnaissance flights to
a sophisticated ground station, weighing the data with other
available intelligence.
   For example, optical, radar, and infrared sightings could
be made of SCUD missile launchers. Then, by melding the
three, the ground station could determine which sites were
decoys and advise a field commander where to most effectively
target forces. The technology is advanced and the design of
the program is carefully guarded; access would give any
foreign power an understanding of the secret formats used by
the U.S. to transmit data and the capabilities it has
achieved in reconnaissance and sensors.
   Despite this sensitivity, written testimony and evidence
submitted in the Recon case indicate that Israeli military
officials obtained access to secret documents related to JSIP
at a critical juncture in the design process. The issue
wasn't resolved by the arbitration panel, but a Recon
executive, John Whyte, said in written testimony submitted to
the arbitrators that Israel appeared to have copied in 1985
the U.S. design in shaping its own program, dubbed Remote
Imaging System, or RIS.
   According to that testimony, Israel purportedly told Recon
that RIS was the product of intense work by one of its own
defense officers, assisted by a subsidiary of Israel Military
Industries, then a part of the Defense Ministry. But Mr.
Whyte testified that he was told later by an American firm in
the JSIP program that the Israeli proposal was in fact a
"close copy" of a JSIP proposal circulated by the U.S. Air
Force in the same period.
   Mr. Whyte testified that he subsequently received a
declassified briefing on JSIP and concluded that the U.S. and
Israeli designs were so similar that it was "extremely
unlikely" the similarities were "mere happenstance." The RIS
proposal was sent to many of the same companies involved in
JSIP, and his affidavit said there were "multiple
indications" that Israel's purpose was really to ferret out
more information on the secret U.S. program.
   The U.S. Air Force confirms that a secret design proposal
related to the JSIP program was sent to American companies in
October 1985, or shortly before Mr. Whyte's testimony says
the first drafts of the Israeli RIS proposal began to appear
in November to December 1985. The U.S. package was classified
secret and had attachments of more sensitive material as
well. A specific "No Foreign" prohibition was included, the
Air Force said.
   Air Force officials say Israel has begun in the past year
to explore acquiring the technology from the JSIP program
through official channels. Gen. Kenneth Israel, who oversaw
the project from May 1985 to May 1989, says he doesn't
"recall ever giving the country of Israel any information" to
assist it with its RIS design proposal.
   The case takes on significance, in part, because it may
illustrate how Israel carefully tracks some U.S. defense
projects. And while it is unclear how Israel allegedly
obtained the information it used for its RIS proposal, U.S.
officials say that in some cases American defense contractors
are careless and improperly share confidential data with
foreign countries to generate business.
   Recon's Mr. Whyte declined to comment for this article.
Israeli officials refuse to comment, except to defend the
integrity of their RIS program and to insist that theft isn't
the Israeli way.
   "You don't take any shortcuts," insists a senior Israeli
defense official, speaking broadly of dealings with the U.S.
"You have to risk suicide, to be a gambler, to take
shortcuts."