Marketing:
   Promotion Firms Labor at Self-Promotion
   ----
   By Kevin Helliker
   Staff Reporter of The Wall Street Journal
There's irony in the fact that promotional-products makers
have to go to such great lengths to promote themselves these
days. For years, the industry prospered in good times or bad.
Recession or no recession, companies had to promote. Or so
went the thinking.
   But this recession has been different, as both suppliers
and distributors feel the pinch of corporate cost-cutting.
Sales in 1991 were "flat or slightly below" the prior year,
estimates Ron Schwisow, chairman of the Specialty Advertising
Association International, the industry trade group that puts
on the show. The result has been price wars and tighter
profit margins.
   "We're paying the price for our own progress," says Marvin
Spike, president of the Advertising Specialty Institute, a
for-profit marketer of computer software and trade
publications to the industry. "In past recessions, when
corporate vice presidents went through every department
saying, `Take 20% out of the budget,' specialty advertising
was too small to be found anywhere. But today, we're a line
item in many budgets, and we're getting cut."
   Over the past decade, few industries have matched the
growth of promotional products, those corporate
logo-festooned pens, calendars and other goodies that
marketers hand out to would-be customers and top employees.
In that time, sales have nearly tripled to $5.01 billion. But
with fast growth comes oversupply. Since 1981, the number of
companies that buy and distribute promotional goods has
nearly tripled to 12,000.
   Part of that growth has come from ad agencies that once
sneered at the business. "Specialty advertising is no longer
the Rodney Dangerfield of advertising," says Michael S.
Rawlings, an executive in the Dallas office of Tracy-Locke
Inc., the largest ad agency in Texas, which recently started
a promotional-products division.
   Distributors also face competition from some of their own
suppliers, which have decided to sell directly to big
accounts. "It used to be, suppliers couldn't afford to sell
100 coffee cups here and 100 there, so they used a
distributor," says Ed Johnson, president of Walter W.
Cribbins Co., a Seattle distributor. But with the industry's
growth, orders in the tens of thousands made direct selling
more economical.
   Manufacturers feel the need to enhance their bottom lines
these days because their numbers have multiplied, too.
Nowhere is that more apparent than at this gathering, where
the number of booths has grown to 2,500 from 1,000 a decade
ago. "There's no way the distributors can get to all the
booths," Mr. Johnson says.
   But as the supply of promotional products has grown, the
demand has started to dwindle. For years, Crump ES of Dallas
Inc., an insurance company, presented agents with decorative
desk items bearing the Crump name. "The thinking has always
been, these agents have lots of companies to choose from, and
it helps to keep your name out in front of them," says Marcus
Payne, chief operating officer.
   But the recession has changed Crump's thinking. "We
decided, instead of sending things out to our top 100 agents,
let's send them to the top 50," Mr. Payne says. "In hard
times, you begin to cut out the nonessentials, and we just
came to realize that specialty advertising is a
nonessential."
   Proponents of promotional products argue that their
offerings are less expensive and more effective than regular
advertising. They note that specialty advertising reaches
only known customers-and that the exposure lasts longer. Mr.
Schwisow recently came across a floating key tagstill in use
by a boater-that his company distributed 25 years ago to an
outboard motor company.
   Distributors and suppliers are encouraged that industry
sales held their ground in 1991 while spending on mass media
advertising fell 1.7%, the first decline since 1961. They
point to companies like Paccar Inc.'s Kenworth Truck Co.
unit, which cut its total ad budget this year, but is
spending more than ever on a promotional product, a Kenworth
coloring book and crayons, to be given away at trucking trade
shows. The cost of the giveaway is insignificant compared
with the cost of mass media, and virtually all who receive
the coloring book will be potential Kenworth customers, says
Dick Schlicting, Kenworth's creative services manager.
   But overall, industry executives say, the current
recession is testing their marketing ingenuity. To stand out,
many suppliers are moving away from the usual fare of
calendars, key chains and coffee cups. Some are going upscale
with items such as leather coats and acrylic globes.
   "It's kind of unfair, but when times get tough, companies
will lay off their plant workers and order some really nice
gifts as incentives for their sales force," says Wally Shoop,
an artist here. He recently received an order from a big
brokerage firm for 1,200 bronze sculptures (at a cost of $400
each), to be given to its best-performing salespeople.
   More-aggressive attempts to attract attention include
glow-in-the-dark cocktail stirrers and the Microshield, a
piece of plastic to protect those who administer
cardiopulmonary resuscitation from the AIDS virus, among
others.
   At the convention's 11 miles of boothlined aisles, some
sellers try to make a splash with gaudy outfits or bright
balloons. Others try to appeal to buyers' social consciences.
A seller at the Colo-Hydro Inc. booth, which is selling
blue-spruce saplings in foot-long tubes, says, "The
environment is huge this year."
   So is patriotism, with trade tensions mounting. "All our
globes are made in America, and that's a big deal this year
for distributors," says Karen Davis, a saleswoman at the
Spherical Concepts Inc. booth, where globes made for American
Telephone  Telegraph Co. and USX Corp. are on display.
   But suppliers agree that the effects of the recession are
palpable here. "In times this tough, you really have to
hustle," says Joel Bachner, owner of an apparel maker named
Boss-Tex Corp. With his booth momentarily quiet, he doesn't
wait for things to pick up: He throws his arm around the
shoulders of a passing buyer, then steers the fellow into his
booth.